https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88846.The_Unquiet_Grave
Hemingway said of this book, it is  one which, no matter how many readers it will ever have, will never have enough I found this treasure a few years back after reading a NYT interview with Donna Tartt in conjunction with the publication of The Goldfinch. She cited The Unquiet Grave: A Word Cycle by Palinurus as a go-to book.The Unquiet Grave by Cyril Connolly (1903-74), an English critic prominent around the time of WWII, is a "word cycle," but primarily it's Mr. Connolly's journal written duri
Each time I open this little book, I find something new to contemplate, some new comprehension of the world around me.A few of the gems herein:Most people do not believe in anything very much and our greatest poetry is given to us by those that do.______...art is made by the alone for the alone… The reward of art is not fame or success but intoxication...______The man who is master of his passions is Reason's slave.______"In the sex-war thoughtlessness is the weapon of the male, vindictiveness of the female.
Cyril Connolly adopts the pseudonym 'Palinurus' (the Pilot) for this key book.
Connolly is easy to Google so I won't waste time reciting his CV.It's a good book to read before committing suicide.
It may confirm you in your choice but, conversely, may prompt you to say 'ah fuck it' I'll hang on for another day or two'.Also a good book to read if one has recently parted from a lover but remains filled with desire - or, perhaps, if one is simply wallowing in anomie as can happen when too many drizzly days follow each other without a single passionate storm.I reread this every 5/10 years or so.
The Unquiet Grave is another such book, in which the intensity of my experience is echoed by Cyril Connolly himself when he writes, “Intense emotion, a mixture of relief and despair, at reading Saint-Beuve’s notebook Mes Poisons, and discovering ‘This is me’” (pp.
58-59).Culled from notebooks Connolly kept documenting his despair over the dissolution of his marriage, the Second World War, and the way the war had cut him off from his beloved Paris, The Unquiet Grave is as resonant a portrayal of one man’s emotional collapse as I have ever read in literature.
This was a cult classic in the 1950s, but now it's hard to see what all the fuss was about. Connolly was known as a brilliant and talented writer who didn't write much, wasting much of his life with alternate bouts of hedonism and regret. I can can see the waste -- he's nothing if not brutally honest about himself -- but the talent is overrated. There are some zingy aphorisms and melancholy insights, but unless pages of self-flagellation and untranslated quotes from French and Latin authors floats your boat, you can safely leave this grave unopened.
A bit dated, a bit silly, but for all that an interesting specimen of the English Man of Letters. His prognostications are less absorbing than his eliptical and impressionistic descriptions of travels through France ("darker wines at the inns, deeper beds.") And I didn't know he was so into lemurs.
Donna Tartt said in a New York Times interview that this is one of her favorite books: "I've loved it since I was a teenager and like always to have it to hand; when I lived in France, years ago, it was one of only six books I carried with me."
He was exorcising some personal demons here: his marriage was falling apart at the same time the world around him was falling apart, and the general sense of catastrophe is strong.
Nonetheless, the book is highly quotable, bright if only with a fractured light, and in the end it makes a powerful meditation on the significance of love and of art and of being human in a world that is often short on all three.
I can't think of a single way in which this book is not remarkable.
I only give it four stars because 10 to 15 percent of it is in French – usually a quote from a famous author – and untranslated.
This is excruciatingly frustrating, considering the rest of the book: you just KNOW you’re missing out on something wonderful.
Somebody should publish an edition where the French is translated in footnotes, as almost all the Latin is in this edition.
Yes, there’s Latin: Palinurus was the pilot of Aeneas’s ship in Virgil’s epic poem, The Aeneid.
Writers, such as Cyril Connolly, do not appear to be popular anymore. This is not a continuous prose work but more jottings of thoughts, musings etc. I found the work to be full of wisdom but also a little sad that it reflected an old soul tired of the world.
An endearing little book of maxims and aphorisms, long-winded descriptions of French glories, and lengthy quotes from classical poets.
Sarcastic despair is constantly being sublimated into idealism, while the battle against the 'herd-slaughter instinct' and for genuine happiness is never quite lost.
In this sense Connolly is more akin to Wilde and Orwell than any angoissé Frenchman, but that is by no means a criticism.
Connolly's influences are incredibly varied (from Horace to Lao Tzu via Sainte-Beuve) and his idealism is no pose; it is, rather, an open wound of a love for life, for plants, for lemurs, for a Europe in its death throes, for misspent youth.
I enjoyed this book well enough, but it's structured in far too aimless a fashion to have provided me with a sustained, narrative theme--despite the author's intentions.
Written during World War II, The Unquiet Grave is Cyril Connolly's midlife crisis in book form.
It's unfortunate that the edition I read did not include translations of the copious French quotations, since I had to skip those (and they account for a surprisingly large number of pages in the book overall).
Even so, the book is alternately beautiful and profound, and I marked dozens of passages as I read through it.
"Oggi sono piuttosto sicuro, pur essendo consapevole che tutto è estremamente insicuro, che non ho in mano nulla, che si tratta soltanto di un allettamento, allettamento che pur essendo esercitato di continuo e inesauribilmente, è tutto ciò che mi resta dell’esistenza, e oggi tutto quanto mi è piuttosto indifferente, per cui io, in questo gioco nel quale si può soltanto perdere, ho vinto in ogni caso l’ultima partita." (pp. 118, 119)
4.5Anybody else getting some Book of Disquiet vibes here?Not saying that's a bad thing (BoD is my favourite book of all time), but like, I can't help but wonder if I'd have loved this more wholeheartedly if I hadn't already fallen in love with something that feels quite similar.
Combinación de libro de pasajes y reflexiones diversas con la fuerte influencia de lo clásico, entretenido, aunque me parece que es un libro para la madurez
Someone needs to go back in time and tell Cyril that his publisher accidentally released his pretentious teenage diary entries instead of an actual book.
I can read the French and it didn't make the difference for me. some edifying quotes and some neat observations are not enough to save the rest
The author's declarative air leaves no conceptual oxygen for anything else to breathe while you're reading it.
It helps that his declarations are interesting, disquieting, encouraging of debate even as they emanate authority.
I'm still digesting what I read, but a few immediate takeaways: 1) this guy, either by era or by nature, has never fallen prey to the ubiquity of "seems," and 2) a third of the way into the book I kept thinking I would like to find Connolly's wife, buy her a stiff drink, then sit back and let the tape recorder roll.
This style is much like that used by David Shields in Reality Hunger (in which he references this book with the highest praise), except that these sketches and fragments are all original material by Palinurus (Cyril Connolly)."Ennui is the condition of not fulfilling our potentialities; remorse of not having fulfilled them; anxiety of not being able to fulfill them, -- but what are they?"--Infused with a deep intelligence and a distinctly powerful ability to observe & analyze, but also infused with a heavy dose of world-weariness, disappointment and self-reproach, but it never comes off as whiny or needlessly bitter."Those who are consumed with curiosity about other people but who do not love them should write maxims, for no one can become a novelist unless he love his fellow-men."--Be Warned: If you crack open the 1967 Penguin Books edition like I did, 7-10% of this is written in French with NO TRANSLATION.
on love: "The first signs of a mutual attraction will induce even the inconsolable to live in the present."on why ascetism and chastity are the wrong goals in life: "If our elaborate and dominating bodies are given us to be denied at every turn, if our nature is always wrong and wicket, how ineffectual we are--like fishes not meant to swim." on friendship: "How many people drop in on us?
Hence the institution of my "sundowner" with which all believers...would render holy that moment of nostalgia and evening apprehension.
Melancholy rambles which relate to my own feelings and experiences. Particularly useful around this time in my life - Connolly has a good grasp on human emotions. Will remain on my bookshelf to refer to later on in life. Oh and one day, i'll translate the quotations.
For example, all of Blaise Pascal’s quotes are in French, with no foot-noted translation and therefore no context.Nevertheless, it’s worth reading, as the following excerpts demonstrate:“Leaving Bellac after crossing for two days the plains of the sandy Loire, we enter the Bocage Limousine, traverse a country of tall tree-hedges blueing into the pale spring sky, and reach the first hills, the Blond mountains, and the forest beginnings of the Chataigneraie.
I'd say this book is especially relevant for writers.Lots of wisdom in here.
This should be made clear to all who contemplate such a union.""Complete physical union between two people is the rarest sensation which life can provide—and yet not quite real, for it stops when the telephone rings.""When I contemplate the accumulation of guilt and remorse which, like a garbage-can, I carry through life, and which is fed not only by the lightest action but by the most harmless pleasure, I feel Man to be of all living things the most biologically incompetent and ill-organized."There is actually, much, much more.
An extraordinary journey through melancholy, depression, call it what you will, by someone who not only understands it deeply from personal experience but is actually suffering (or should I rather say experiencing...Connolly would be the first to say that it can be life enhancing as well as frighteningly bleak) at the time he writes the book.
The knowing and the understanding is what makes it a good book.
Melancholics, manic-depressives, bi-polar disorder sufferers etc will recognise that this author is a good pilot.
He knows of which he speaks.
And he speaks well.
This is not an easy read, but one well worth the effort.
Sometimes annoyingly allusive and elusive--but as a literary window onto one man's painful journey filtered through a lens of literature, it is fabulous.
There are passages that annoyed me--I'm not sure I'd like to have dinner with Connolly--he would have preferred Horace's company (and I'm pretty sure neither of them would want to have dinner with me!)Connolly's interpretation of Palinurus says as much about Connolly as Palinurus but is full of insight and material for rethinking.
The book also draws a literary family tree of like-minded writers (e.g. Horace, Flaubert) in whose lineage Connolly portrays himself.

This seemingly random collection of observations, quotations and epigrams was written during WWII and therefore has a gloomy veneer. It's very dense and challenging read, even though it's a scant 130 or so pages. And be warned--a lot of the book is in French. Connolly's comments on the lessons of past and current history are interesting, and the writing is superb, but this is not a book for everyone.
Adolescent, bitter, whimsical, and obsessed with France. The untranslated French does end up becoming burdensome, but it fits the overall attitude of the author. He's not writing for people who can't read French. My five stars have more to do with the intent and form than with the actual content. Unlikely to read it again, I still love Hemingway's assessment, a book that no matter how many readers it has, will never have enough readers.
Deliciously disjointed ramblings meander sometimes merrily, more times morosely around quotes from the masters, and the incognito author's own masterful quips about everything from Flaubert to Freudians to flowers to, my personal favorite, ferrets. An absolute joy, though tedious if taken in huge doses; I administered heavy highlighting for this book I'll always be reading.
"Everything is a dangerous drug to me except reality, which is unendurable.""While thoughts exist, words are alive and literature becomes an escape, not from, but into living."Quotes like this can only deserve 5 stars. An excellent, devastatingly sad little collection of thoughts and quotes.
The writer Cyril Connolly states in this book that if an author wishes to write a book that lasts a thousand years, then they must learn to use invisible ink. In the first paragraph he also comments that the only objective of a writer is to produce a masterpiece, and no other task is of any consequence. In this book he achieved both.
