https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70491.Yukon_Ho_
Of course, as a child, I never knew that Calvin was a man who thought heaven was a lottery or that Hobbes was the father of rational political philosophy.
If it is, then its popularity amongst children stems merely from its ability to mesmerize their ignorance.It was not only the philosophy of Calvin and Hobbes, not only the many levels of both meaning and humor, it was the exploration of reality itself; sometimes funny, sometimes poignant.
In Watterson's comic, it was always the world that was impossibly wide, complex, and unfair.
Calvin and Hobbes hugs always have me melting into a puddle of 'awwyy', sobbing, “choo chweet” saying mess.
♥♥♥These two never disappoint. They really do have the answers to all your woes.
I just love this kid's ingenuity and cognition. :)
And that's your second set of the series.You know he resonates with the adult when you've seen who-knows-how-many power-point presentations that begin with Calvin & Hobbes' philosophical musings as they careen down a hillside on sled or wagon.Whether you're watching Spaceman Spiff or Stupendous Man, whether you're laughing at the mutant snowmen or Calvin pulling faces, whether the cardboard box is a time machine or transmogrifier, Calvin's imagination takes you for a joyfully wild ride.As for Hobbes, I'm weighing in with the opinion that Hobbes is real and so I'm very glad that Watterson never gave permission for merchandising.
Read it.
It's Calvin & Hobbes. That says all that needs to be said. Who doesn't love this six-year-old and his stuffed tiger?
Probably one of the finest comic strips ever, Calvin and Hobbes is iconic and when Watterson decided to retire the characters, there were millions of people (me included) who grieved.
So we read all the books over and over and they seem fresh every time!
Calvin and his tiger buddy are doing their best in this entry of the series, to drive his parents, Miss Wormwood (his teacher), and Susie (his female nemesis) over the edge and as usual, almost succeeding.
So clever, endearing, and funny that I can't imagine giving this book and all the others anything but a five star rating.
Trust Calvin and Hobbes to cheer you up after a bad day! I love the kid and this stuffed tiger...oops.. Hobbes!
Príjemné, oddychové, úsmevné. Calvin má v zásobe množstvo nápadov a s Hobbesom sú tá najneodolateľnejšia dvojica na svete. Ak by som hodnotila knihu samostatne, tak to bude o hviezdičku viac, ale v porovnaní s obomi predchádzajúcimi dielmi je tu podstatne menej originálnych motívov, sú to skôr variácie na už známe zápletky. Stále je to zábava, ibaže som čakala trochu viac.
Bill Wattersonin "Erämaa kutsuu" (Egmont, 2009) pitää sisällään strippejä 1980-luvun loppupuolelta. Lelutiikerin ja vähän liiankin hyvällä mielikuvituksella varustetun kuusivuotiaan pojan ystävyydestä syntyy hauskaa, ajatonta, hienosti piirrettyä sanomalehtisarjakuvaa.
Calvin and Hobbes books are great fun and really witty humor! A childhood staple comic book for me, but even now I go back and read them and understand the humor on a different level (now that I know the meanings of some of the words!). Great books.
This was the first Calvin and Hobbes book I read. A teacher let me borrow her son's copy when I was going through a phase of not reading anymore, and I devoured it quickly. The wit is spot-on, and it encouraged me to hunt down every other collection! I love Calvin and Hobbes as a team and as best friends, even though both are just different sides of Calvin and his different perspectives of the world. They compliment each other exceptionally well and their dialogue gives a refreshing escape to childhood innocence and fun humor.
The continued adventures of an imaginative boy and his tiger. I’m continuing to enjoy reading about them again, and looking forward to some elements that have not yet made an appearance.
Mírně slabší než předchozí díl Pod postelí něco slintá, přesto neustále nekončící nálož vtipů, nápadů a skvělých přesně padnoucích poznámek. Znovu se ukazuje, jak mnohovrstevnatý calvinohobbesovský humor je. Podrobně k tématu pak v tomto komentáři k prvnímu dílu mnou čteného sborníku tohoto skvělého komiksu.
Calvin is the hero of all children with wildly vivid imaginations.
Calvin is fairly typical in the sense that such children tend to drive their parents and teachers crazy, yet when they learn to temper and channel their imagination, they often end up doing spectacularly creative things as adults.
And this is the real beauty of Calvin and Hobbes shows through.
It's the quest of a six-year-old to have a good time with a furry friend.
The philosophy, the juvenile humor, the deep quiet truths, seeing the world through the eyes of a 6 year old.
I thought one reason was that Mr. Watterson did not stay true to his premise, and he doesn't, but giving himself that freedom allowed him to take the continuity to imaginative places that paid off in other ways.
I also knew that Calvin was a brat and I do not like bratty kids.
It wasn't until reading this collection, however, that the problem coalesced for me.Sure, Calvin is a mostly irredeemable brat, but the real problem is generational.
A generation or two later, kids seemed to think that they were right, that they should be allowed to do whatever they wanted and that adults were wrong to stop them.
When I was working in any of the many bookstores where I was employed and I did not want (or have the time) to read my current book, I would grab one of these collections to read on my too short break.
But he truly represents that wonderful attitude of being a kid.
A kid looks at a box and sees a plethora of adventures.(Another sign is when you actually use words like plethora.) I am truly envious of Calvin's ability to live life with no worries (except who babysits him) and to have adventures without even leaving his backyard.
Collecting cartoons originally published between May 1987 and February 1988, this is another fantastic Calvin & Hobbes collection from Bill Watterson and it’s a real treat to read.
The first is when the family goes camping, with Dad trying to make the whole thing an adventure in the rain whilst the second gives the collection its title, as Calvin secedes from the family but, on falling out with Hobbes, quickly heads home.
It’s beautifully played, especially when Calvin realises Hobbes isn’t home and his Dad has to go out in the dark to get him.
Here we have the last of the Calvin and Hobbes books from my youth.
At least, the last that I owned in my youth.What more can I say about Calvin and Hobbes?
He created a strip that could literally go just about anywhere, solely using the power of Calvin's imagination.
Or, if Mr. Watterson just felt like being silly and drawing random animals, Calvin and Hobbes find themselves in a Transmogrification war (also included here).
With Calvin's imagination and Watterson's art, you could end up just about anywhere, and that's what makes these comics so great!A welcome addition to any library.
Lovely.The third collection and Calvin starts to spread his wings as tertiary characters are introduced and filled out. The great outdoors beckons and starts to become a beautiful place as Calvin's world gets a bit more complicated.
Funny
Okay, they weren't all that great, but still worth reading over and over.
The humour in this book is very relatable. It takes the common problems of a young child and portrays them in a comedic way. In this book calvin speaks as if he is an adult Calvin in this comic is somewhat of a little genius. His best friend Hobbes who is a tiger plush toy but in the book showed as a live tiger, is always talking about how he doesnt have to face the problems that Calvin has. Each strip is a new and original idea. The humour never gets old.
No downturn in life Calvin and Hobbes can’t cheer a person up from, if just a bit. Absolute brilliance. And cuteness, hilariousness, and fun.
This book i liked as it is interesting.
AWESOME AND INCREDIBLY FUNNY
This was a very excited. I would recommend to my friend.
Clever and funny. Though some of the gags were hard to understand without context, it was gratifying to read a comic that has brains.
As relevant today as it was 30 years ago.
