https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67599.The_Triggering_Town
I want to write: that books about creative writing and the process of writing are stupid, are wasted breath, are an attempt at systemitizing something that is best left to its own devices.
I want to write: that my copy of this book is worn and yellow; that this book is treated like a bible by so many creative writing professors and boy, do I have the photocopied readers to prove it; that my heart sometimes hurts and I wonder if I'll die young; that I like wandering through cemeteries in the spring; that I'm good at pissing people off; that this book has nothing to do with writing or a lot to do with writing; that to surround a subject with words is similar to meticulously building a model village out of wood, gluing each piece in place, painting and sanding every little detail with a delicate and obsessive amount of care, until what emerges is a flawless miniature and then proceeding to burn it down.
"A lot of students today would rather not learn Milton than be made to feel inferior because they didn't already know his work. That makes academics sound petty. But damn it, some of them are petty." And damn it, what better way to have a resound of Hugo's voice and lectures, than through this single, cogent quote?
Not only are you someone, but who you are and how you feel about yourself are the key shapers of your poetry:Behind several theories of what happens to a poet during the writing of a poem--Elliot's escape from personality, Keat's idea of informing and filling another body, Yeats's notion of the mask, Auden's concept of the poet becoming someone elese for the during of the poem, Valery's idea of a self superior to the self--lies the implied assumption that the self as given is inadequate and will not do.
A creative-writing class may be one of the last places you can go where your life still matters.
This book was included in a list I published for Christmas gifts.
I named it one of the best books I had read in 2010.
A name like Richard Hugo will not sound a familiar chord with young readers, will it?
Even I never heard of him until I embarked on an extensive study of the works and life of Raymond Carver.
Interesting story in itself, this study of Raymond Carver.
You do know Raymond Carver: A Writer's Life has everything to do with that infamous literary giant by the name of Gordon Lish, don't you?
Seems Lish is everywhere in my work, and for good reason.
One of those books that came along at the right time for me. The more I engage with the study of poetry the more I learn the different ways you can approach poetry. The beginning chapters of the book were brilliant especially if you've been writing poetry for a couple of years and have the basics under your belt. The later chapters which were more autobiographical were interesting.
At turns humorous and serious, The Triggering Town is a mix of poetry advice, poet's experience, and poet's personality. A nice mix. I'll post some of his more interesting pieces of advice for writers of poetry soon. I tracked some of his "nuts and bolts" (read: rules of thumb) about poetry writing here:https://kencraftpoetry.wordpress.com/...If you write poetry, you might give them a look. Even these do not give his rules full justice, however, as I omit his elaborations and such. If you're a true student of the trade, you might want to check the book out.
i didn't realize how fucking brilliant hugo was. no wonder i like his proteges so much, william kitredge, jim harrison, james welch, m l smoke, ron carlson,....
Don’t waste your time. Here’s a quick summary:“Poetry has no rules! Be bold and willing to fail! ...Unless your poems suck. Here’s a list of things that disqualify you from being a good poet...”
Still, coming to it as I did out of concern over my bewilderment and skepticism about the act of reading poetry, I found it strangely disheartening that this book only confirmed my suspicions and forgave my ineptitude.
He presents a moving depiction of the act of writing poetry as an engagement of and with that dark, elusive and inarticulable void most particular to ourselves and most common to all.
The lesson I take away is that we should write poetry to learn and become ourselves, but if we want to share that self or save others time in finding their own, it's to prose (or maybe "public language poetry") we must turn.
I'm incredibly thankful to my main poetry reader friend for introducing me to Hugo's essay "The Triggering Town." The first essay in this book "Writing Off The Subject" might be the most informative and inspirational lesson I've been taught about writing poetry well.I recommend this book to poets who consider themselves a bit further along than "beginning," though of course, we're always beginning again and again.
Being "arrogant enough to follow the music" takes some time.I believe Hugo's book will forever change my writing.
I can't recommend it highly enough.*******Just reread this book and it was just as helpful and revelatory as it was the first time.
There is such a raw honesty to Hugo's writing, and to his instruction, that is very different and refreshing from many of the contemporary authors I've read in this past year or so.
I knew of Hugo, because I had read and enjoyed his only mystery, "Death and the Good Life," when it was reissued posthumously by Clark City Press.
So, as soon as I discovered that Norton was reissuing "The Triggering Town," I snapped it up and have finally had a chance to sit and savour the book.
This will remain on my shelf for a very long time.
My husband thought it odd that I was laughing while reading a book on poetry. But Hugo is really funny! How refreshing. Very gratifying to hear him explicate ideas I had been mulling over much less eloquently (trying not to let it go to my head). My copy is a used one, marked up by the previous readers--at first I thought it a hindrance, but then I began to like it. Like reading it in a class, I got a couple other opinions on the book. A real treat.
This is a book I return to again and again. By reading this book, I learned to trust myself to become a poet.
What an odd and wonderful little book. A lot of insight here, not just for writing, but for life. My favorite bit: "It doesn't surprise me at all when the arrogant wild man in class turns in predictable, unimaginative poems and the straight one is doing nutty and promising work. If you are really strange you are always in enemy territory, and your constant concern is survival."
Wow. I never knew Richard Hugo was so funny. In the first chapter I knew I was in for a treat when he wrote of poems "Assuming you can write clear English sentences, give up all worry about communication.If you want to communicate, use the telephone." He has proceeded to engage me and help me in my own path in writing. Definitely worth owning and marking illuminating passages.
Absolutely essential reading for poets and writers! Hugo offers a truly unique perspective that stands out from the many other "how to write a poem" books.
восхитительная коллекция высказываний о поэзии и ее писании человека одновременно остроумного, великодушного и очень цельного. всю исчиркала карандашом. в каждом абзаце есть идеальные фразы.
Getting ready to teach this.
The exercise in Chapter 4 really did help me write one of my best poems.
Blowin' my mind again. Review to come.
On the very first page of his book, Hugo writes about two attitudes all writers carry to the page: “all music must conform to truth, [or] all truth must conform to music.” A piece of creative writing, whether it be a villanelle, flash fiction story, or personal essay is a work of art that takes craftsmanship, or music, but is often, at least in some small way, born out of experience, or truth.
Hugo supports the idea that if we write often we will stay “in shape” and the hard work will pay off, maybe not in the first essay/poem/story, but it will, eventually.
The worst part of it all is that sometimes the advice is coming from other poets, and they ought to know better.Such is the amusingly self-aware advice offered by the poet Richard Hugo in this, his collection of essays and lectures about poetry and (mainly creative) writing.
It is worthy purely as a short memoir, but also as a means for discussing its impact on his poetry, with examples of poems directly attempting to capture those experiences.As a stimulant to the neurons of beginning poets and writers, or another perspective for those more experienced, this book succeeds admirably even some four decades after publication.
Hugo's collection on writing craft and the life of the artist is not only peculiar, but almost singular in how contradictory it can be. It is a text constantly at odds with itself, but one that somehow makes its clashing lessons essential through its lyricism and ability to inspire rather than merely instruct. Definitely one of the odder books on writing, but one I can happily recommend.
An interesting little book that starts out feeling as if one is in a writing class and can be a little off-putting if one isn't really interested in being in a writing class, but I found it more interesting as it turned into more of a memoir and since I'm trying to learn about memoir writing, I found it interesting.
The first half of the book was fine - full of witty remarks about his (Richard Hugo) own style of writing poetry and a few notable lines of encouragement and advice. The second half was garbage. In other words, if you're really scraping for some sarcastic poetry advice, sure - read the first half of Richard Hugo's Triggering Town. If not, don't.
This got me writing poetry after the second chapter. The first several chapters are a wealth of ideas. Once I started writing, I looked at poetry in a new way. Hugo has a wonderful tone, he's fun and inspiring. He's a legit poet on his own too.
I’m not a big fan of poetry, but I have definitely learned a lot about life with it
Some very interesting things in this book, though the author seems like he was a very unpleasant and misogynistic person.
A love story to words and to living and to being something more true than we usually get a chance to be.
Great book on how (not) to approach poetry. Very helpful.
