https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29580.Second_Foundation
It's the final showdown between the "Mule" and the Second Foundation, represented in the final battle by its "First Speaker".
But above all the homeworld of the Second Foundation will now be revealed.
Il presente è della Fondazione, in lotta contro un nemico dotato di poteri "psichici" terribili, ovvero la capacità di influenzare le menti.
Il terzo capitolo del ciclo della Fondazione è meglio dei due precedenti, secondo me, più ricco in azione e suspense.
Siamo alla resa dei conti tra il "Mulo" e la Seconda Fondazione, rappresentata nello scontro decisivo dal suo "Primo Oratore".
Ma soprattutto ci sta per essere rivelato il pianeta madre della Seconda Fondazione.
What a great completion of the trilogy! This book, the last part of Foundation trilogy, was very captivating from the start and became even more interesting and enthralling leading to a great spellbinding climax. This trilogy has now entered to my all time favorite books. It has been a great experience reading Isaac Asimov.
527. Second Foundation (Foundation, #3), Isaac AsimovSecond Foundation is the third novel published of the Foundation Series by American writer Isaac Asimov, and the fifth in the in-universe chronology. It was first published in 1953 by Gnome Press.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه دسامبر سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: سقوط امپراطوری کهکشانها (بنیاد دوم)؛ نوشته: آیزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: حسن اصغری؛ تهران، شقایق، 1371؛ در 358 صا. شربیانی
And when Foundation and the Plan both suffered at the hands of the mutant The Mule, Seldon's secret guardians - Second Foundation - came to save the day.
The Plan on one hand, that secret society of psychic saviors on the other, Foundation and Second Foundation, Mother and an absent but still watchful Father...
You will control your own destiny, future be damned!And so you acted against Second Foundation, you plotted and schemed and made intricate designs, you found those secretive psychic saviors, you executed each and every one of them.
Second Foundation wraps up Asimov’s brilliant early 50s classic SF series Foundation.Twenty-nine years later (in 1982) Asimov would publish Foundation's Edge, but for most of the golden age, the Foundation trilogy would form a template (though never completely duplicated) for SF excellence.
Essentially divided into two parts – the first part a conclusion of Foundation and Empire with The Mule and then the conclusion of the Foundation story.
The search for the ultra-secretive Second Foundation continues across the galaxy.Both the first part and the second had themes of a chess match between actors with several conflicting solutions being developed and supported.Parts of this, especially discussions about the advanced mental Second Foundation reminded me obliquely of Arthur C.
Thankfully, the Mule is stopped through the bravery and intelligence of one woman, and through the help of the secret Second Foundation.In this book, we are about 500 years into the single millennium Seldon’s Plan predicts before the Foundation will establish the Second Galactic Empire.
This part of the book also includes a lot of double-double crosses that keep the reader guessing all the way.The second half of this book is about (after the Mule’s eventual death) the search for the Second Foundation by the First.
This is probably my favorite of the three, so I definitely suggest reading it.
(view spoiler)[It becomes apparent that although the Second Foundation likes to have all the threads in their hands, they actually lack the ambition to use their power in order to rule themselves.
(hide spoiler)]It is also revealed just how intricate Hari Seldon's plan really was and how the Second Foundation works, what they regard (apparently correctly) as their "job", why there was never any psycho-scientist in the First Foundation and any other question readers might have had from the start.
“Was his controlled mind so concerned with obedience as to lose initiative? He felt a thickening despondency drive him down into a strange lassitude.” Poor Captain Han Pritcher. Mind control is a common sci-fi trope but the feelings or thoughts of the person under control are rarely explored. This is what makes Part 1 of Second Foundation so special. As I mentioned in my review of Foundation and Empire The Mule is a terrific villain, clever and ruthless but no exactly evil and a little pitiful
This being Asimov the kickass climax does not actually involve feet coming into contact with posteriors; be that as it may the scene is very tautly written and has stayed with me for decades since I first read it.Part 2 of Second Foundation is mainly concerned with the First Foundation’s search for the Second with the intent of destroying it.
I personally find this warfare section a little dull compared to the much more interesting major plot; I am not at all surprised that I remember nothing of this aspect of the book from my previous reading.The world building in this third volume is the best of in the trilogy, I particularly enjoy Asimov’s description of the Second Foundation’s culture.
It seemed appropriate, therefore, to up the average rating of the series with this last chapter.“Every human being lived behind an impenetrable wall of choking mist within which no other but he existed.”What I loved about this particular instalment, and a thing that is quite evident more or less in all Asimov books, is that the solution of its plot is so layered, the reader gets lost in its endless folds.
The idea behind it's pretty good.
I tricked you!Man2: But I knew you were going to trick me.
Instead, I tricked you!Man1: But I knew you knew that I was going to trick you, so really *I* win!Man2: NO!
*dies*Man3: I knew that you knew that he knew that you knew that he was going to trick you, and I set up the whole thing!
So I win!Man1: But I knew that you knew that I knew...And so on.
In short, a good book to wrap up the trilogy, but a pretty weak story on its own.
Second Foundation is a decent enough conclusion to the original Foundation trilogy, although it was by far the weakest book in the trilogy in my eyes.The problem is that whereas the first book, despite its own flaws, is both intriguing and original, both the second and third volumes focus on deviation from, and restoration of, the psychohistorical master plan of Hari Seldon.
The whole story of the Mule feels quite pointless and could be considered the weakest point of Asimov's ideas.
Whether I will continue with the newer books is a matter for another time.
Do I enjoy it every time ?
Yes of course, otherwise I wouldn't re-read.
Do I enjoy as much or more, hmm, difficult, in some ways no, its not new to me, but in some ways yes, because I get more every time, and I realise every time what an amazing author Asimov was.So I have just finished it for 2017 as part of the Foundation (7 book version) series read for SF Aficionados and again I realise what an amazing book and series this is.(One of my dreams is to read Asimov from Robot novels through the Empire novels and then into all of the Foundation novels - I've been told its over 30 novels, so I really look forward to that, maybe 2019, a special year)
We could replace one technology with another and still have the same core story shine.And it really shines.Yes, SF has had tons of telepathic SOBs, but I still count the Mule as one of the most savvy and intelligent dictators to ever topple a galactic empire.
The first half of this book deals entirely with him and his long quest to hunt down the Second Foundation.
Yeah, the Second Foundation remains elusive and scarily effective, eventually trapping and defeating the Mule with wit and brilliant conversations and logical traps that are brilliant.
The First Foundation always seems to get things wrong, but this the same as usual.
Y es lo que moverá la trama durante las dos partes del libro, dándole un ritmo bastante bueno, como ya teníamos en los previos, pero aparte agrega un interés bastante real ya que la Segunda Fundación es algo que no se ha mencionado mucho y hace que pases las páginas con más rapidez.
Mientras que la segunda parte es más una historia de intriga/guerra de una forma bastante pasiva pero no con ello aburrida a mi parecer, claro.
Los temas como la psicología de una mente que sabe ha sido manipulada, el temor y confianza en una guerra, están excelentemente bien descritos durante el libro.
That's a pretty dang cool idea.Unfortunately, this trilogy also has, in spades, many of the things I don't typically like about sci-fi, especially well aged sci-fi: poor characterization, bizarre pacing that skitters forward hundreds of years at a time, and a jarring failure to predict inventions like computers, the Internet, or genetic engineering that would all make several plot points strange at best and inexplicable at worst.
The latter really can't be helped, but it is kind of offsetting to see characters stymied by situations a personal computer or cel phone would solve.There are approximately fifteen thousand other books set in the Foundation universe, but I'm not in any hurry to read them.
As always, I refuse to go too much into the plot when the book is plot-driven, but I will say that this book not only deals with external threats to life and peace, but also has the reader start to question whether a plan such as Seldon's is acceptable to us if it threatens our own sense of self and free-will.
What is the greater threat?
Asimov deserves praise for this series of books, in them he manages to provide credibility to a genre that many of us readers too often turn our noses up at.
Great ending to a great series!! I was very satisfied with the ending. I can’t wait to read the other books Asimov wrote later in his life about Foundation.
A circle has no end ...
and then the shape of the Galaxy is like a double spiral ..
But that doesn't change this to be as entertaining and witty an end to the Foundation Trilogy as promised.
All three of the original trilogy are just as much creditable today as must have been when first published.
I am always humbled by Asimov's talent and his scientific foresight amazed me once more in terms of the technology described in this series.
I am also intrigued by the psychologist, sociologist and historian Asimov once more by this last book of the trilogy.
nekas nerealizētos, bet ir cilvēki, kuri nudien nav gatavi cilvēci iemest 30’000 gadu ilgā tumsas laikmetā, tādēļ tika dibināts Fonds, kas nestu gaismas dzirksti nākotnē.
Arī viņi vēlas iznīcināt otro Fondu… pirms tas ir iznīcinājis viņus.Triloģijas pēdējā grāmata autoram ir izdevusies, tas ir kā spainis ar trīs dibeniem, kad šķiet, ka viss beidzot ir skaidrs izrādās, ka nekas nav skaidrs.
Otrais fonds ir tik netverams, ka arī lasītājam viss tiek atklāts pašās beigās kā milzīga Galaktiska sazvērestība, kuras pirmsākumi tika ielikti jau gadu simteni pirms grāmatas notikumiem.
Üç Vakıf romanı arasından en iyi olay örgüsüne sahip, ince ince işlendiğini hissettiren bir romandı. Fakat karakter olarak yine zayıf buldum. Bu da hikayedeki kırılma noktalarında duygusal anlamda etkilenmeme engel oldu. Yine isterdim ki detaylıca bir uzay savaşı okumak, üstünede gezegenlerdeki politikalara dair derinlere inmek fakat bunlarda çok üstün körü geçiliyor. Hatta ilk iki kitaba kıyasla bu konuda en zayıf olanın bu roman olduğunu söyleyebilirim. Ama bu elbette kötü yapmıyor, sadece benim beklentilerimin farklı olmasıyla alakalı.
In sum: the original Foundation trilogy (of which this book is the conclusion) is terrific, even though I do not buy into the ideas that either the First or Second Empire depicted is an ideal state of human affairs, and, conversely, why it is necessary to minimize the time between the fall of the First and the rise of the Second Empire.All three books are well-paced, with a strong but not unmanageable cast of characters.
Asimov is particularly skillful with the “information dumps” necessary in a tale stretches across centuries.
Asimov'un Vakıf Üçlemesi'nin son kitabı, ancak Vakıf serisinin son kitabı değil. Çünkü üçlemeden yıllar sonra Asimov seriye dört kitap daha eklemiştir. Bu kitap Asimov'un Vakıf galaksisi ile ilgili yeni ufuklar açıyor. Klasikleşmi bir bilim kurgu kitabı.Kitapla ilgili incelemem: https://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018...
It's so funny when SF writers, especially ones like Asimov who take themselves seriously, try to predict the future.
This book contains one of my favorite examples of getting it completely wrong.
We're God knows how many thousands of years on from now, they have faster-than-light travel and force fields and any number of other miraculous inventions, but what is the absolute latest, cutting-edge technology?
it looks rather like Dragon Dictate, with a printer that produces cursive handwriting.
Except that, hm, they don't seem to have invented Microsoft Word yet.
Maybe WYSIWYG text editors aren't as obvious an idea as we all think?
4.5 Stars. Satisfying conclusion to one of the classic space opera trilogies in science fiction history. Asimov could really spin a good, fun yarn and populate it was great "larger than life" characters.
Son elli sayfada elli kere ters köşe oldum galiba. Her şey bitti derken kitabın son cümlesiyle tekrar şok oldum. Şu an boş boş etrafa bakıyorum.
Asimov has a linguistic prowess that is nearly untouchable - nearly.
I figured myself top-notch, thinking I had discovered the hidden secrets behind the book; thinking I had discovered the ultimate truth behind the words of Harry Seldin and found that Second Foundation on my own.
The proverbial saying 'pride before the fall' came to mind at Asimov's grand conclusion for his third novel in his original Foundation Trilogy.This book is a roller coaster.
Only then will you see that Asimov has taken you around the world and back again...
except this time to the ultimate truth.
The Second Foundation are controlling my mind!
Well, they MUST be because I enjoyed this, the third of the Foundation space doddles, ONE WHOLE STAR MORE than the other two books that preceded it.
Spot the hidden Second Foundationer!), so that you spend the whole of Part Two in a lather of dread expecting smiling liars wielding mind control EVERYWHERE.
Big ticks for the climax of the book, with twist after twist after twist.
Big ticks for Arcady, Lady Callia and 'Momma & Poppa', all of whom rather leapt off the page, which doesn't happen every day with Asimov.
Unless the Second Foundation would rather I read another author for a while...?
It was the Foundation series that made him famous and propelled his name into the annals of science fiction.In this third book, Asimov continues the quest for truth by delivering something unseen in the previous two iterations: consistency.
As a result, the prose flows organically, enriching the reader’s eye and soul.“Second Foundation” is more straight-forward and continuous than the previous two novels.
The previous books lacked continuity, and there were a lot of interludes in between the storytelling.
In this iteration, the plot is consistent leaving the anti-climactic interludes behind.This book served as the epilogue to a successful trilogy (which was reanimated much later), and I can honestly say that the American scientific prophet saved the best for last.
The cliffhanger at the end of "Foundation and Empire" leads to a wonderful storyline full of mystery and intriguee in "Second Foundation." The Seldon Plan, which worked like a Deus Ex Machina in "Foundation," finally faces a serious threat.
The character in the end of the trilogy stand on their own two feet, they are interesting by themselves, even as they face the seeming inevitability of history.
"Second Foundation" has proved to me that the trilogy is a must read, must own, and I'll continue to explore the books outside the trilogy.
Asimov rounds off the trilogy in exemplary way. The Foundation, destroyed by the unpredictable variable in the statistical equation (in this case, the mutant Mule), is brought back into working order by the "Second Foundation", the secret 'Plan B' of Hari Seldon - rumoured to be located at the other end of the galaxy. It's a fine SF novel and an intriguing space mystery at the same time.
