https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147029.If_I_Ran_the_Zoo
Quite a ride in a zoo!  WANTED: ZOOKEEPER  But if I ran the zoo,  Said young Gerald McGrew,  I’d make a few changes.  That’s just what I’d do… It’s a wonderful tale about a young kid imagining what kind of animals,......from every strange and oddball places around the world,......he’d bring to the zoo and it that way to attract more audience to it.Illustrates quite well, again, the theme of “Dream Bigger”, but......again, the ending (I won’t tell! Don't worry!) is kinda anti-climatic for my par
Quite a ride in a zoo!
But if I ran the zoo,
I’d make a few changes.
That’s just what I’d do…
It’s a wonderful tale about a young kid imagining what kind of animals,......from every strange and oddball places around the world,......he’d bring to the zoo and it that way to attract more audience to it.Illustrates quite well, again, the theme of “Dream Bigger”, but......again, the ending (I won’t tell!
It’s said that it’s not about the finish but the journey, but I think that a good ending always it’s relevant for the overall reading experience of a story.
Who doesn't love Dr. Seuss, with his nonsensical words and lovable creatures? This was an adorable story of what a boy imagines he would put in his zoo if it were his, to make it the best zoo in the world. One of a kind creatures, he reasons would surely draw customers and they would be awed at his skill of obtaining (by himself) these hard to find animals from far off places.We liked this very much, and had many laughs with the story and pictures.
A little journey into weird, and extraordinary nooks all over the fantasy world with one goal, to find and capture, unique animals and bring them back to the new zoo.
The Zoo McGrew, made by little Gerald McGrew, is the place to be if you are an amazing animal, or a curious person.
We had a good time reading it, and we laughed a lot while on it.Gerald McGrew craves to overshadow every other person in his family andbecome a legendary Zoo keeper, hopefully one day he will..
Dr. Seuss' famous trademark for his children's book are the rhyming and made-up words, which I have enjoyed in this tale. Once more, he showcased how a child's imagination is immense just like how creative Gerald McGrew is in the story.
Probably the only Suess book I’ve read that just... doesn’t work? Reading these rhymes out loud was difficult, and not in a fun way. The sentences were way too long and stretched oddly to make them rhyme. It just didn’t flow well? But the worst part is the casual racism? While imagining capturing dozens of fictional animals for his zoo, a little boy just mentions “helpers with their eyes all at a slant” and casually jokes about bringing one back too??? It was gross
In it, a little kid named McGrew dreams of turning the town zoo into a home for mythical, magical beasts - who become more and more weird with each turning page.Now I know why I always had an off-the-wall sense of humour.
I was like a tot who’s always high on sugar!In later life I would pay for it, and learn a valuable lesson.Mike was a bright and capable young man who used to work for me, back in my office days.
Well, the joke worked - but Mike never respected me again because of it.You know, books like Dr. Seuss’s were common in medieval times...They were called Bestiaries, and each magical beast came with a moral.
Mainly due to the phrase "helpers who all wear their eyes at a slant", I can not recommend this book.
I was surprised and not expecting to encounter such a statement in a Dr. Seuss book.
Guess that showed me.
Luckily, I tend to read ahead in my mind and skipped that entire part when reading to my children.
People who excuse such comments based on when the book was written annoy me.
Because the book was written in 1950, that makes it ok for me to read it to my kids?
Otherwise, this book is good, another imagination gone wild, with crazy weird animals all over.
I don't believe in banning books, but I wish I had been warned about this book. There are, to me, very offensive depictions and descriptions of Asians and Africans in this book. When I turned the page and saw the "helpers who all wear their eyes at a slant", I felt as though a hand had reached up and slapped me.I love many of Dr. Seuss's books and their messages, but I'll have to let this one by. It's just too hurtful.
Probably would've been a higher rating if it hadn't been for some of the racial slurs. Oh well.
I like Dr. Seuss as much as the next guy, but boy howdy does this book have some problems.
The zoo-keeper has to deal with especially dangerous animals at times, and for these he needs the "Bad-Animal-Catching-Machine." Because clearly stealing sometimes very rare and endangered animals out of their natural habitat and putting them in a zoo is a dangerous business.I wish I could post a picture of the page showing the African bird he plans to capture.
But not quite as jarring as the rest.I realize this book was published in 1950 and for that reason some will say we should excuse any racism therein, but I say that's bs.
While this book has some great flights of fancy and imagination, it suffers from a lack of any substance or focus to that. When you also add in that Seuss relies on some unfortunate racist caricatures for a few of his visual gags in this book, it is a hard book to recommend. Of interest to the Seuss completist, but by no means essential, and not quite something I'd feel comfortable reading to children.
This was just about the best gol-darndest book ever! ;)
But if I ran the zoo,Said young Gerald McGrew,I'd make a few changes.That's just what I'd do ...First published in 1950, the title enters popular culture's lexicon as a hip motto for a generation of office workers.
Might be a little on the long side, but the imaginative concept is terrific.The book does have some physical racial stereotyping, which has engendered some very negative emotional reactions from some readers.
Because our world has become so racially sensitive, are we now to set aside all books that have racial insensitivities?
Additionally, there is a HUGE difference between books having racial stereotyping and books having a racist slant.
There is NO WAY that, even in a most extreme deconstruction of this book, can the content be construed as racist.
To describe this one as racist is a hugely overblown criticism of its content.
No livro "If I Ran the Zoo", ele conta-nos, sempre a rimar, os animais que teria no seu Jardim Zoológico e como os capturaria, descrevendo as suas características físicas, a sua personalidade, bem como os locais exóticos onde pertencem.Dr. Seuss recorre à sua imaginação maravilhosamente fértil e apresenta-nos animais, lugares e formas de os capturar que nunca antes vimos, nem ousamos fantasiar.
Apesar de muitos dos lugares, onde o Gerald McGrew captura os seus animais, não existirem, era espantoso se pudéssemos olhar para um globo e encontrá-los, cada um com um nome mais estranho.Através da sua imaginação, com poemas melodiosos e ilustrações vistosas, Dr. Seuss leva-nos para outro mundo, onde tudo é possível de ser inventado, mesmo as palavras."What this zoo must be worth!It's the gol-darndest zooOn the face of the earth!"
Bloody 'ell! That's me knackered now, my jaw actually hurts from reading this. The rhyming is mad, the rhyming's insane, the rhyming is bad, it's left me in pain. In this book Dr. Seuss has been at his most inventive, making up people, places, animals and all kinds of other stuff. It has been great fun reading this one and I think we'll be reading it again in a few days.
A delightful little book written by an author who is completely at ease with rhyming and making up words. Cool illustrations included. Fun for all!
He loves the Zoo and when he sees the Lions in a cage and a guard right next to it, he believes he can make a few changes to improve the park.
At the end of this crazy hunt and setting up the zoo it was all a dream and he moves on to other exhibits.The rhyming was too much, the hunt for different animals became a little unbelievable and I lost interest half-way into this book.
I love the illustrations and the different animals that appear in this book but like I said the excess was a little too much.
To me it's just a long list of weird animals from places with funny names, coupled with the typical Seuss strange pictures.
Do I think that Dr. Seuss is necessarily racist and intends that in this book?
I honestly think this book is more a product of the times.
Just...don't read it if you're easily offended.That said, would I recommend it?
As I said, the story was tedious and I found myself thinking, "how many animals are left to get?" The whole "human trafficking" aspect of "maybe a chieftain too" is meant to be funny like the rest but doesn't sit well.
I've heard Dr.Seuss is great children author and because of that I borrowed from library some of his books.
And in the last few days I've read them to my cousin who loves Marvin K.
I would have never chosen this book to read a loud to Asian/White child (I wouldn't choose this book for any child whatever race) .
I don't think Kaito understood the racial slur because he is too young or because he hasn't heard it.
Anyway the pictures and rhymes like "And eight Persian Princes will carry the basket, But what their names are, I don't know.
Dr. Seuss never fails to please us with his imagination. I got quite a day in the office and reading Dr. Seuss stuff could cheer up the atmosphere. The story about Gerald McGrew, his dreamt and wacky imagination if he could have a zoo one day, then he would make a few changes, brought a rare obsk (such a weird bird with long neck) to live with the zoo. Well, one must never get old to re-reading Dr. Seuss' masterpiece, right?
Who doesn't love a good Dr. Seuss book?!
At first, I had trouble understanding why this book was banned.
Since the animals are not pictured in a sad way, it was hard to realize why this book was banned.
Although all the animals that Gerald is capturing are made up, it could send a bad message to young readers.I would have this book in my classroom because I am a HUGE Dr. Seuss fanatic.
I have always loved his books.
If you have a discussion about the book after you can show that what Gerald wanted to do if he ran the zoo was not okay and he shouldn't want to take these animals away from their homes.
If I Ran the Zoo, by Dr. Seuss is about a young boy named Gerald McGrew, who imagines what it would be like if he had his own zoo.
It is considered a challenged book because it includes some racism, which is seen as inappropriate for young readers.
This racism is seen in the book in a stereotypical description of a group of people.
I was very surprised to learn this book was considered a challenged book, especially since it is written by Dr. Seuss.
If I Ran the Zoo, by Dr. Seuss is a fun book to read, but may be considered inappropriate to use in an elementary classroom.
Summary: Gerald McGrew has a fantasy of turning the zoo into a place of amazingly unique creatures.
He lets his imagination run wild and shares exactly how the zoo would be if he were in charge.Teaching Ideas: I would use this book as a way to introduce poetry to the students.
I would have the students read this book as a class, and then would have them write their own short poem about what they would do if they were in charge of the zoo.Evaluation: I think this book contains a cute story line.
The illustrations are unique and colorful.
Although this book is a mostly-lighthearted, imaginative tale, it is highly criticized for some racist images and phrases.
Many children grow up reading Dr. Seuss tales because they are always creative and spark imagination.
Other than the handful of questionable racist remarks, this book is a goofy tale filled with lots of wild and imaginative animals.
However, African tribes-people are portrayed black as charcoal with little grass skirts, and a middle-eastern is portrayed with a turban, fleeing the city.
Additionally, a handful of Asian characters are described as having "eyes all a slant".
When I was in school and I made up words I was penalized. But apparently that is what made Dr. Seuss famous. Its one thing to make up words to create a new world, its another thing to do it because you couldn't find better words to use.HOD
Summary:  This book tells the story of Young Gerald McGrew and what would happen if he got the chance to run the zoo.
Evaluation:  This book is very funny and had some wonderful illustrations.
The text only took up a little of the page and was often over a picture.
I liked how this book focused on the pictures.
It was a fun book that had some interesting vocabulary words.
Teaching Ideas:  I would use this book when I was introducing poetry to the students.
Then I would read them a page and we would talk about how this book has poetry in it.
Lions and tigers and imaginary creatures! Oh my! My complete review is at:https://youtu.be/krKNgpWYYDs
I can't believe I'm enjoying these! But I am! ^^
Who won’t love a good Dr. Seuss Book? 😍💯
