https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/484831.The_Enormous_Egg
Out-of-date and sexist, not to mention implausible. But it includes this: "No, Joe, a scientist doesn't know all the answers. Nobody does, not even teachers. But a scientist keeps on trying to find the answers." And so, I say, sure, read it if you like.Otoh, I remember now that I didn't actually like it all that much when I was a kid, either.
I remember reading this book when I was younger and thinking, "Holy Crap! You mean this is all I have to do to get a pet dinosaur??!!" And then I learned the definition of "fiction." I hate books.Update 1/2013: Re-read this last week, and it's still fun. Also surprised to see that the Dinosaurs-->Birds thing was around in the 1950s.
As this story begins, Nate Twitchell, a nine-year-old boy living with his family in the small rural town of Franconia Notch, notices that one of the family's hens seems to be swelling up like a balloon.
A week later, a paleontologist from the Smithsonian Institution, who's vacationing in Franconia Notch to do a little fishing, asks to see the enormous egg.
One early morning several weeks later, "what the fuss is all about" is spelled out to them in no uncertain terms as Nate, on his usual crack-of-dawn visit to check the egg, discovers a newborn triceratops in the nest!
How I love Oliver Butterworth! A childhood favorite illustrated by another fav Louis Darling. A wonderfully written, classic and fun story.
My friend Mary Kate kept telling me this was a great book and she was right.
The ending was the best -- a dinosaur hatches out of the egg and they end up moving him to the National Zoo in Washington, DC.
The speeches of the politicians about protecting American children and saving taxpayer money are very funny, and heartbreaking in that they sound just as sensible as our current representives: "This animal does not belong in our National Zoological Park.
He is not an American animal, and our national Zoo is no place for him.
It looked as if Nature had put everything she had into making one really perfect day.
3.5 stars, probably. Fun fantasy for any kid to own a dinosaur, but what I loved was how this dinosaur becomes a matter of federal policy. Democracy springs into action. How will Uncle Beasley fare? You’ll have to read to find out.
like the book. interesting story.
A piece on NPR on guilty reading pleasures led me to re-read The Enormous Egg. As with so many things aimed at children, much of Butterworth’s commentary is way over their little heads.
One of their hens lays an enormous, funny looking egg.
Nate takes good care of Uncle Beazley, as they name the little guy, but he soon grows out of his pen and even out of the barn.
At Senate hearings Senator Granderson fulminates “He is not an American animal, and our National Zoo is no place for him.
But no un-American, outmoded creatures from foreign places.
And all that for a story about a boy and a dinosaur!Like I said before, the storyline is really simple - a boy in New Hampshire finds an enormous egg in the henhouse, which ends up hatching into a baby triceratops.
Although the plot is firmly set in the 1950s, the characters feel real and it is still as great a story today.As a child, I loved this book because I would have been thrilled with a real pet triceratops, but rereading it I see that there were a bunch of really good lessons beneath the surface about responsibility and standing up for what you believe in.
✭✭✭✭
The whole family enjoyed this story as a read aloud. 💗
And what is even more, gentlemen, this animal I speak of is no normal creature like the lions and tigers and elephants that roam the woods and plains of our fair country--' Someone nudged the Senator when he said this and leaned over and whispered with him.
'Of our fair country, I say,' Senator Granderson went on, 'or the woods and plains of our sister nations across the seas.'"
My kids’ elementary school read this for their school-wide read and then they wanted me to read it to them. I’m disappointed that school picked a book with so many sexist elements (honestly the way the mom and sister were written was the worst). Maybe it made sense in its day, but it can be consigned to the dustbin of history and we’d all be better off.
I love this book.In the egg was a dinosaur!!!The government didn't say the dinosaur is going to the zoo.But people didn't want to kill the dinosaur so the dinosaur is in the zoo. (Smiley face)
This is a childhood favorite of my husband's, influenced in no small part, I'm sure, by the fact that he shares a last name with the main character (and grew up/lives about an hour's drive from where this is set).
I can understand the comparisons to Homer Price here (though I think this is a bit wordier), especially in terms of descriptions of small-town life around mid-century.The premise is that one of Nate's chickens lays an enormous egg, and after several weeks of waiting and wondering, a dinosaur hatches out.
I picked up this book at a garage sale for a quarter.
A children's book, written in 1956, it tells the tale of an egg laid by an ordinary hen, which turns out to be a dinosaur egg.
The dinosaur, which I need not remind you, hasn't been seen in millions of years on earth, hatches and ..
well, I don't want to spoil the story.
The writing, for having been written in 1956, sometimes feels old-fashioned, but it kept my attention throughout.
-- were pretty close to what would happen now, 50 years later.
This is not one of those classics that stands the test of time. It is full of weird gender stuff (girls do not like dinosaurs, only want to become telephone operators or homemakers) and old white scientists who smoke too much. The premise seems interesting, but the story is boring, takes too long to go anywhere and while the idea of a dinosaur is neat, there is no emotional attachment to the creature by Nate, only a sense of entitled ownership. I quit. boo.
i love this book! how they had to save the one and only living dinisor. great story about a boy with a prehistorical reptile and how he had to come up with ways to feed it and keep it warm, and to save it from the sentors who wanted to kill him and stuff he, and how the boy had to come up with his own speech to save his best friend the dinysor.
What would YOU do if a dinosaur hatched in your backyard? Nate Twitchell and his family can give you a few ideas. This charming story is entertaining and imaginative. I can see why it is considered a classic and really enjoyed reading it for this year's Battle of the Books.
My son enjoyed it a lot, but it wasn't my favorite that we've read together
I SO would have loved a baby triceratops when I was little!
I thought this would be the perfect book for William to listen to. We made it maybe half way, but he just didn't ask to hear it, so we moved on to something else.
One School, One Book challenge. Cute read, originally published in 1956. My 1st grader liked it.
In fact, the premise is so odd that I thought I had misremembered the story, but when I put in "chicken egg triceratops" this came right up!I wish I could say that as a kid, I thought that I could get a dinosaur this way.
Oh, sure, who wouldn't want a dinosaur, but with the chickens' temperament I'm sure I'd get a Tyrannosaur instead of a Triceratops.
Great illustrations too - in fact, the illustrator thanked the American Museum of Natural History that let her see Triceratops and Protoceratops models when she was working on them!
The Enormous egg by Oliver Butterworth follows the journey of young Nate Twitchell and his family while they take care of a dinosaur.
When the egg finally hatches it is not what anyone in there family expected it to be…it was a triceratops that the twitchells cannot take care of because of its pure size.
The book is good for anyone who is wanting a short easy read to get in touch with your kid inside you this is the one for you.
So if you are ready to experience what it is like to live with a dinosaur read The enormous egg by Oliver Butterworth.

I read this one out loud to Dash over a few weeks earlier this year.
I had very fond memories of it growing up - it's about a boy in rural New Hampshire whose family's hen mysteriously hatches into a triceratops - and we had a pretty fun time revisiting it, despite the relatively slow pace and some story elements that date rather poorly (especially in the treatment of female characters).
But the young narrator's voice has an amusing yankee wryness, and the satirical way it treats the short-sighted, science-blind federal government is, in a disturbingly dark-comic way, very much of our moment.
The illustrations are delightful.
This was a fun, silly story narrated by a boy who tells his story of an enormous egg that hatches into a dinosaur.
It is a good old-fashioned book and not at all dated or sexist as some people claim.
However, my issue with the book is the scientific idea of evolution and the dinosaurs existing million of years ago.
I believe the Biblical account of creation, so would not recommend to children unless they already have a firm understanding of creation or it is explained to them how the book contains erroneous science.
Have had this book forever-finally read it..& what a gem!...definite sign of the times that are no more - home cooked meals & desserts - kids w/chores...words of wisdom here & there...& congress had NUT CASES in the senate even back then..if it makes sense don't DO IT!!!..true the story is far-fetched - but what a good one for the imagination...just don't see it being read by the kids today...& the illustrations are a PLUS!
This book was great! It was kind of surprising that a triceratops could come out of any ordinary hen, but while reading anything amazing could happen. The only reason why I don't like this book is because it says that birds and reptiles are related to each other. Otherwise this book was great, especially when it shows you how the boy really cared about his pet dinosaur,- even being put up on the television news to save his triceratops!
