https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151926.The_Ghost_Road
What becomes of us when all we know is death and killing, and that is taken away?If that is the question being asked, the answer is not forthcoming.
The book ends just before the war does, so we never get to see how any surviving characters would reintegrate into civilian life.
From their worries, their neuroses, and what the experiences of warfare have done to them, the answer appears to be "not well." If the experiences of Rivers among the headhunters are instructive, particularly not well.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
My personality goes quite well both with rants about horrid books (Thank you, Coelho, writing a review on The Alchemist was a blast!) and with gushing about books that made me cry and laugh and shiver (yes, Of Human Bondage is still there with me in its entirety, long after closing the book with a sigh of sadness that the 700 page journey is over).But a historical novel on World War I, with fictional characters I can’t really relate to?
Last of an excellent trilogy and it does help to have read the previous two books as many of the characters run through them all and there are references back.
We also go in flashback to the time Rivers spent in Melanesia with a tribe of head-hunters.Prior is recovering and makes a deliberate decision to return to France, reflecting the same decisions made by Owen and Sassoon.
She is reflecting some of her own working class northern background and she has said herself that she decided to write about the war following some patronising reviews of her early novels about women.
(hide spoiler)] And there are other sorts or spirits which join that dance down the road: the ghosts of the living, the younger selves of characters which only exist in the memory, before those selves were altered inexorably by the horrors of that War which, failing to "end all wars", instead succeeded monstrously in ending so many selves, millions physically, more millions spiritually, ghosts of both these millions, dancing and marching.
They are joined by spirits which inhabit the myths and minds of Melanesian natives, natives which Dr. Rivers had studied years prior with Arthur Maurice Hocart, and which in this novel keep coming back to him, weaving in and out of the narrative.
The novel opens in the final months before the end of World War I.
The Narrator alternates points of view between Dr Rivers (a real historical figure) who treats shell-shocked and damaged men at a War Hospital and one of his former patients at the hospital, a young and not very likeable lieutenant.From the beginning my interest was held by the war hospital setting, the broken men and Dr Rivers’s rather unorthodox methods of treatment.
Inevitably the reader’s mind is led to draw parallels between the attitudes of the Melanesian tribesmen, those of their new rulers and those prevalent in war torn Europe some twenty years later.
Compared with (previous war novel read) “Empire of the Sun,” this WWI novel evades the actual battlefield, to the benefit of everyone, I suppose.
No—this one is more “Best Years of Our Lives” with raunchy sex and modern yearnings for release, than, say, other bloody epics like "Gone with the Wind" or "The War at the End of the World" (I just noticed these are not WWII novels.
I will be frank, war novels are not my cup o tea.
Even Prior, a gay character (read: breath of fresh air for this genre), can separate sexuality & camaraderie.
It's a very rich, enlightening, must read.
Struggling with the effects of a war she didn't live through, her obsession lead to a brilliantly re-imagined world, much of it based on historical records.She addresses the war from several angles: a brilliant psychologist, women who are freed to work in munitions factories, soldiers faced with moral and class conflicts.
The first book is set in an institution where soldiers are sent for shell-shock.
The second book addresses the government's fear of traitors in war time: gays and socialists are targeted.The third continues the story of a few of the characters, who are now returning to the front.
An incredible finale to an amazing trilogy.
This trilogy about the psychological impacts of the Great War is impressive!
In 'The Eye in the Door' , the character development of Lt. Prior was somewhat 'off'.
The final installment made up for a lot.
The stories of both Prior and Rivers were fascinating.
They came together in the end in a powerful and horrifying understanding of the impact of war, and the futilty of (this) war, but also gave a clear understanding of the double standards civilized nations upheld in those days ( and nowadays, no doubt) about what was civilized and what not.
This trilogy is highly recommended!
The final installment of Pat Barker’s trilogy regains some of the cohesion lost in the second one, partly because it focuses more on Dr. Rivers’ past, and partly because Billy Prior — as repugnant as ever — finally returns to battle.
Plus I’d endured too many tasteless sexual encounters between Billy and whoever was handy to really care much about the book.
I shudder to think.) One of the big disappointments with the trilogy is that the characters who were so fascinating in Regeneration, Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen, are absent from the second book and make only cameo appearances in the last.
Together comes the end of this wonderful trilogy which in the simplest way talks about the consequences of the war and makes very important questions about it, making these three books a very important reading for the First World War.Στο τρίτο βιβλίο της τριλογίας αφήνουμε τα μετόπισθεν για να μεταφερθούμε στην καρδιά της μάχης, στις τελευταίες μέρες πριν από το τέλος του πολέμου, όταν όλα δείχνουν ότι τα πάντα έχουν τελειώσει.
Μαζί έρχεται το τέλος αυτής της υπέροχης τριλογίας που με τον πιο απλό τρόπο μιλά για τις συνέπειες του πολέμου και κάνει πολύ σημαντικές ερωτήσεις για αυτόν, κάνοντας αυτά τα τρία βιβλία να είναι πολύ σημαντικά αναγνώσματα για τον πρώτο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο.
The third book of the trilogy centers mostly on two of all the characters who were present in the previous books, Rivers and Prior.
Throughout the books the characters are developed into vivid, compelling, independent personalities.
You can almost feel you knew them in real life after you finish the trilogy, they are so real, so well-developed.
No perfect hero, but most of the times even painfully familiar, reminding us about our own flaws.I could definitely continue, but I will round up just by saying that "The Ghost Road" accompanied by the previous two books in the trilogy has definitely won a place in the very top list of my favourite books.
I honestly think if the war went on for a hundred years another language would evolve, one that was capable of describing the sound of a bombardment or the buzzing of flies on a hot August day on the Somme. There are no words. There are no words for what I felt when I saw the setting sun rise. I have a hypothesis that the muddled history I've internalized of whether The Lord of the Rings is a single work or a trilogy has something to do with the fact that reading Regeneration the way I did mean
On the one hand, the writer in the Regeneration trilogy has her finger on its pressure point in the ways that forgo all talk of being 'of the times' that it's nearly impossible for that to have all evaporated by the time the first words began forming for another project.
One could make an argument for racism, but as far as fictional ethnography written by a white author goes, Barker was more than willing to hand off the baton to someone who has the right to talk about such things.
The Regeneration Trilogy: I read these books in the late '90s, after Ghost Road was first published. I was in love with the British war poets of WWI at the time and this fit right in. I don't remember many details, but these books were great reads. Very athmospheric, accessible and captivating main characters, I suffered with them every step of the way.P.S.: The movie is also very good.
Barker's final volume of the "Great War Trilogy" does an admirable job of bringing the series to its expected but none-the-less tragic conclusion.
Barker has created a trilogy in which each volume points the way forward toward the inevitable ending, but in which the final volume suffuses the whole with a new level of meaning as the reader reflects on the first two volumes with a deepened understanding after (even while!) reading the third.
It is futile to imagine that literature has the power to end war, but this series of fine novels makes a powerful argument that war is itself insanity and that our jingoistic politicians and those who elect them are doing violence to our society that will affect generations to come.
The Ghost Road is the third book in the Regeneration trilogy, and I have to say, I was disappointed.
Rivers has moved to war torn London, still dealing with the young fall out from the devastating World War. Prior, a character from the periphery of Regeneration, who moved to the fore in The Eye In The Door, returns to France against Rivers's advice, and the story takes them both to the end of the War. In this respect, the novel was just as captivating and equally sobering as the first.
I've enjoyed this trilogy and THE GHOST ROAD - a former Book Prize winner is perhaps my favourite of the three books.
I think this might at first be disconcerting to those who have not read the earlier novels in the series.Despite all of that and the fact that this won the Booker Prize, I did not feel this was as powerful as either of the earlier books in the series.
Prior was nowhere near and the war continued.It seems she understood Billy Prior and other working class soldiers, better than Rivers and his class.
Four stars for The Ghost Road and I look forward to reading other books by Pat Barker.
But it is not just the spirits of the war dead who haunt The Ghost Road.
Previous to the Regeneration trilogy, Pat Barker was primarily known as a feminist writer, one with working-class, Northern English roots.
The lives of young men, however, are needlessly sacrificed by the thousand by a war-like, patriarchal culture.
The male-dominated society of The Ghost Road seems to care very little for the lives of individual men.
The series is more than just great historical fiction as Barker poses difficult questions about about how individuals can survive in a society which asks so much of them, even at times their very lives.
Barker returns to her characters Rivers and Prior, now well-loved by her readers, and uses them to explore the messy, stunted end of the war and the human debris it left in its wake as it stumbled to an end.By splitting the narrative between protagonists, and through time, Barker emphasises the sense of fragmentation that governed the soldiers' war experience.
Barker's parallel narrative of River's fieldwork in Melanesia stands beside Prior's stunted diary entries to create a broader picture of how war works within societies; and what purpose, if any, it serves.
The final instalment in the Regeneration Trilogy struck me as a bit unfocused and heavy-handed in its use of symbolism and parallel storylines.
I'm not sure why The Ghost Road rather than Regeneration or The Eye in the Door won the Booker Prize.
Personally, I thought The Ghost Road was the weakest of the three books (rated a mere 3.5 stars, as opposed to the 4 and 4.5 stars I gave the other two books), but it didn't mar my overall impression of the trilogy, which is good.
The final novel in a trilogy about the ending of a monstrous war, WWI, supposedly the War to End All Wars.
Given some of the more graphic descriptions of human depravity I don’t recommend the audio version.
You can more easily skim over sections you don’t care to read with a written text v.
an audio book.
Undoubtedly it would have helped if we’d read the first two books, but it has made me more curious to read The Guns of August/The Proud Tower and All Quiet on the Western Front by way of comparison.

Shattering. Just shattering. I felt the hairs on the back of my neck rise as I reached the last pages of this book. I don't have time to write a proper review right now--for that, I point you to Sckenda's extremely excellent review, the one that inspired me to read the Regeneration trilogy. https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Seems fitting to read it this summer, which marks 100 years since the beginning of this awesomely destructive, breathtakingly stupid and poorly-prosecuted war.
This is the 10th anniversary of first reading this amazing trilogy all the way through during a Summer Vacation. I really want to read these again this year. I actually would love to read them every 10 years and see how my thoughts and opinions change. If you get a chance, read this trilogy. Would definitively be on my 1,000 Books to Read before you die list.
In his moments of lucidity he wonders about Prior's decision to return to France in the waning days of the war along with fellow Craiglockheart alum Wilfred Owen.This novel is a treatise on death and asks the question what does a society that promulgates death on a broad scale (ie WW1) hold in its future?
Prior even supposes that in 50 years a new language for death and dying will need to be created as the old vocabulary just does not cut it any longer.I loved the play with descriptions of gas drills and Owen's Dulce et Decorum Est---brilliant!Just a super literary and fascinating trilogy!
Released from Craiglockhart hospital, Billy Prior is eager to return to the killing fields of France and wonders if he is sane. All is soaked in death - even sex, le petit morte, is vicious and cold; a parody of the slaughter it seeks to nullify. Simple, devastating, beautiful prose. For once the word 'triumph' is fully justified.
"The Ghost Road" is set in the closing months of WW1 and alternates between a traumatised soldier, Billy Prior, and his physician WHR Rivers.
One line towards the end sums up the mindset of a traumatised soldier: "Loos, she said.
Barker's characterisation of Prior and Rivers is brilliant.
Rivers is the kind and understanding doctor who, through flashbacks to an earlier life in the Solomon Islands, is also shown as flawed in his own ways via the journey he took to become the great man he was.
Though reasonably well intergrated within structure of entire novel, the Rivers's sections seem designed more to make a point than develop a character.
Though I was never exactly bored with Rivers's story, I found myself much more engaged whenever the novel shifted back to Billy.Despite the cumulative pleasures of following Prior's character develop over three novels, as others have commented, this final volume does not match the power of the first one, Regeneration, suggesting that her Booker Prize was a kind of mini lifetime achievment award for the entire trilogy.
A powerful and moving exploration of WWI's devastation seen through the eyes of a psychiatrist ( W.H. Rivers, an actual doctor) who must cure shell shocked soldiers only to see them return to the Front. I particulary enjoyed the sections on his memories of a South Pacific tribe of cannibals who needed their death rituals in order to live life.
A terrifying novel about the aftermath of trauma and the contradictions in the soldiers' psyche, where the war is both terrible and never to be repeated and at the same time experiences derived from it are given enormous value.
