https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1791813.In_This_Our_Life
I think the Pulitzer committee awarded this novel for two reasons: First, I would guess they were impressed by the central tension in the novel which is the conflict between a person's obligations and his or her desire to be free.
The book also looks at whether true freedom is even possible.
It's the first Pulitzer I've read where racism is seen in a very negative light and the problems facing African American people are explored with a progressive eye for the time.
Those two qualities--a questioning of life and looking at racism--are why I gave it two stars instead of one.
Set in the South just prior to WWII, the novel features the romantic and existential dramas of two sisters named Stanley and Roy (those really are their names).
Grandfather spoils her and gives her a car and lots of money, even after she has dumped her nice lawyer fiancée and stolen her sister's husband.
She causes lots more trouble, is still bored, but because of her family doesn't get punished even for an awful crime (the film give her just deserts but not the novel).
Poor Roy mopes a lot and is depressed since her sister keeps stealing her men.
Everyone tried to philosophize and failed miserably (you too, Mrs. Glasgow!) The characters make you want to punch them, because they speak like this:'Do you know what's wrong with us?' he demanded abruptly.
We're not simple enough.'And the narrator is equally annoying, trying to sound deep by saying absurd things like The only way to hold love is to destroy it.
or he was [...] an atom without a universe.The spoiler-free summary of this book is: "Oh why can't I be happy?
I want love more than anything, but do I even know love?
I almost stopped reading when the duty bound father, Asa, said he never had one happy moment in his life.
I guess I developed my patience as I read about the two daughters, Stanley and Roy (why they had masculine names was never explained) I disagree totally with the idea that Stanley could not help being so appealing to men that she had to run away with her sister's husband.
She couldn't help herself, she was just looking for happiness.
And Roy so strong that she couldn't let her father (the only one who really loved her) help her.
We seemed to go over old ground repeatedly, but the novel is about Asa, a 60 year old man who is facing his life and hoping for some freedom.
He's devoted to his family although his wife is ill and pretty sour; one daughter is selfish beyond belief and the other is only emerging in her own life.
His patience requires a little patience to read about -- endless coffee making for the wife, endless grumpy conversations, and lots of repeated description about his torn and worn clothes.
It's the Depression and life is raw.
THere are some good twists.
It'll be a good book for a book club discussion.
Oh boy! I love the reviews. Just my sort of lemonade.
Good lord. This book was weak. I might say there's at least a semi-happy ending, but a really happy ending would have been if 75% of the characters died in the end. What a slog.
When the book opens Stanley is engaged and days away from her wedding with Craig a forward thinking man in the south.
Stanley ends up running away with Peter leaving Roy and Craig to find themselves together.
The real theme of the book as many of these early pulitzer's are is about the difference between duty to the family and one's station in life and the desire of the self.
William is the embodiment of the old guard in the south - the family is everything protecting them and keeping the name is all that matters.
Roy is the embodiment of a new way of thinking - that you can have your own life.

This novel won the Pulitzer Prize in 1942, and although it is a bit dated, it's still a good read. The film that was based on it starred Olivia De Havilland as Roy and Bette Davis as Stanley (the younger, prettier one!). Why the daughters have boys names is never mentioned or explained. Hmmm. Good story with interesting characters, but a bit too much philosophizing for my taste. (I love the edition I bought on E-bay, a Franklin Library book bound in green leather with gilding on the cover and the page edges, and green moire endpapers. Beautiful!)
This book won the Pulitzer Prize for literature in 1942. I read it as part of the 2009 Spring Challenge. in This Our Life takes place at the end of the Depression (or the beginning of the reader's depression, brought on be reading it). The characters are hopeless, the situation is hopeless, the dialogue is hopeless. Let's put a black binding on it and call it quits.I didn't like this book!Read 15.5 Reading Challenge
Well, it got better in the third part. At least the story became a bit more interesting. But the writing was problematic and the editing of the version I read was atrocious. There was not a single character I liked. Not one. And I utterly loathed Stanley. Everyone in the novel was pathetic and unhappy. It was a depressing story.
Meh.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book. However, there was something unsatisfying about the ending.
This novel is an analytical study of the feeling of kinship as it is manifested in the Timberlake family, decayed aristocrats living in a southern city.
Published in 1941 the writing style is very hard to read as it repeats several phrases and concepts too many times to be an easy read.
As far as the characters, most I could not stand and wished someone would slap them upside the head, hard!
and explain how things ARE not how they wish them to be.As a study goes its fine but as the novel it purports itself to be, not so fine at all.
This novel consists mostly of the interior thoughts of the characters, although there is an arc to the plot.
This novel is certainly depressing, and only a couple of the characters are likable.
I had wanted to read this novel after seeing the John Huston directed movie of the same name starring Bette Davis as Stanley (a perfect actress for the part!).
If you like novels with a heavy atmosphere, including the weather described in the book - almost everyday was rainy, cold and windy - then you might find it interesting.
I liked this well enough to be interested in reading another of her novels.
Really, this is not surprising given how utterly boring the book is.There’s both a lot going on in the story and also not much of anything.
That is, if you are at all interested in the characters.Really what best demonstrates my experience with this book is when I realized there were about 20 pages missing from the middle of the book and apparently nothing of import happened in those pages, because it picked up pretty much in the same place it was before the pages went missing.Obviously, I would not recommend this book.
The novel that won Glasgow the Pulitzer and her last novel, In This Our Life follows the plight of a family in which a young woman is willing to let a black chauffeur studying law in the novel take the blame for an accident in which she kills another person. It was made into a major motion picture starring Bette Davis. The conflict between the reckless sister and the responsible one takes up most of the plot in the novel, as one always wants what the other one has.
This Pulitzer Prize-winning book goes into the Thwarted Dreams category, along with other Pulitzer Prize-winning books such as EARLY AUTUMN and YEARS OF GRACE. It felt like a 1940s black and white movie much of the time: over-acted, too easily-resolved conflicts, glaringly obvious symbolism. All that said, I was hoping against hope for Asa Timberlake unto the very end...and equally wanting to slap Roy, Stanley and Lavinia.
The 1942 Pulitzer Prize novel, this book was yet another of the ones we have read that is decidedly deserving of the Prize. This was a tough read because the the emotions evoked - at times you both loved and hated the book. Some of the characters made you want to smack them - others filled you with empathy. Excellent, albeit somewhat painful read.
An interesting view into the inner struggles people fight with their circumstances in life. It also investigates the generational differences between young and old as well as the chasm between the plight of blacks vs. whites in the south in the 1930's. The story holds relevance these many decades later.
Winner of the 1942 Pulitzer for Novel. The book starts out slow and finally gets interesting in the last 100 pages. The book has an ending that leaves you asking for a few more details. What ultimately happened to the characters?
" 'Nobody can save any one else.' God knows, she thought, I've learned that much."The writing was really good in this book, but many of the characters felt stale. The plot was very slow paced, and it took me much too long to get through.
Of all of the Pulitzer novels I've read thus far, this was to me a weaker selection. Filled with mostly unlikable characters, many of whom self-medicate, in addition to two females with male names that I had a horrible time keeping straight, it was a book that I found to not be very engaging.
I can see why this was given the Pulitzer.
Wonderful writing with beautifully drawn characters, but just too depressing for me to finish. I quite halfway through. I couldn't bear it.
Plot driven book that sermonizes here and there. Better at plot than philosophy. Do people really talk like that?
Somewhat interesting story, not particularly well-told.
Not the type of book I enjoy reading. A bit slow and boring, however, the writing was good with many good passages.
My final review can be found on my blog: http://followingpulitzer.wordpress.co...
