https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402022.The_Golden_Mean
An enlarged cover of the book.NICK Bantock's The Golden Mean (Griffin & Sabine trilogy #3) continues where Sabine's Notebook left off.
The book is in the form of correspondence between two lovers Sabine and Griffin.
And all the more so because of the intrusion of a stranger -- Formatti -- into Sabine's life.Will the two lovers finally get to meet to end their separation into marriage?
Does it signify fluttering to freedom from the throes of danger and, thus, death?I was most willing to give the book five stars because of the stupendous epistolary between Sabine and Griffin and the amazing artwork.
Just when Griffin and Sabine's story is starting to feel a bit stagnant, a postcard appears with unfamiliar handwriting from a character yet unseen in the series.
The new character makes an odd request, and the result is an unexpected twist that shifts the tone from surreal to unnerving.
With few words, Nick Bantock stirs the imagination and hints at something from a veiled realm: Academically bright as he is, [he] never has been able to smell a shadow.
The postcards and letters exhibit the implication of bold textures and diaphanous layers of dusted color.
I once went to a Nick Bantock reading where he boasted of his success in the face of his teachers of English literature who had, to put it nicely, not encouraged him.
This reading, and I suspect a large part of the book tour, was a proud snub in the face of all that.
Having read the first book of the series, I would have proudly stood to his defense, in full agreement.
The experience of reading this book was about as special as the book itself.
But then I read the second book of the series and, sadly, the third.
This is the final book in the Griffin and Sabine trilogy, and I would highly recommend reading all three of these visual novels back to back. Love how this story unfolds. Am checking my mailbox now to see if I got a postcard from a stranger ....
I read all three books in one go, excited by the tactile experience of snooping through personal correspondence and charmed by the imagery.
Sure, there's the mystery of how Sabine & Griffin can exist in different planes or parallel times.
Sure, the images on their one-off postcards could probably be scrutinized for deep orientalist fanatasies, class distinctions, or whatever.
But so many elements--the 'villain' interested in their mental connection, how did a postcard artist get the funds to travel around the world?--were jarring and unexplained.
It was an interesting way of giving the epistolary novel new life but I'm glad I borrowed the trilogy from the library.
So weird and cool! I definitely want to read the other books attached to the series.
I think I like this series, though I don't totally love the ending of this one.
They write letters to each wondering if they will ever meet and I believe which the book gives subtle hints which that they live in parallel worlds.
You do not know whether they finally met, about this evil man, or if they are still together except for a random postcard to a doctor.I am livid that the author did the same shit again and didn't provide a satisfying ending.
There is other books that feature Griffin and Sabine and in the beginning I wanted to read them but now I refuse.
I suggest reading the first book and making up your own conclusion whether Griffin and Sabine ever met and lived happily ever after.
The mystery concludes, but is not solved.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as the first two mostly because the number of unanswered questions was too large.
The only narration comes from the characters who are living their lives oblivious to being observed, when they stop writing letters you stop hearing about their lives.
They are layered nicely, you can enjoy them superficially, literally, just looking at the art and never reading the letters or you can reread them any number of times before reaching the conclusion to try to solve the mystery.
I've thought about these books often since reading them.
The final book of the trilogy, and Griffin and Sabine have yet to meet one another, other than through the gorgeous postcards and letters in the book.This one introduces a third character, who appears to have something to do with their inability to actually meet, but who he is and what his actual intentions are is left somewhat vague.
Griffin is back in England and Sabine in her home.
It looks as though they are back to where they began, but they are also determined to meet one another.Again, there is the slightly guilty thrill of opening an envelope addressed to someone else and reading the letters.
While I expected to ask a lot of questions to unveil the whole trilogy's mystery, more specifically the extraordinary telepathy and correspondence, I did not like how it ended. It may have been a happy ending for Griffin and Sabine but I felt I needed more of that suspense from Victor in this finale.But I still recommend this series especially if you like opening letters, reading postcards, and you are into experimental and abstract art. ;)
The beautiful conclusion of the trilogy. I love these beautifully drawn letters and cards, and piecing together the story through Griffin and Sabine's correspondence!
Weak ending but otherwise as good as the first two. Love the artwork and the premise is very clever.
Maybe I'm too much a seeker of happy endings (and one's that make sense), but this left me dissatisfied. I liked elements of it (new characters, new places, beautiful envelopes!), but I had too many WHAT?! moments to feel really settled here. Ending felt like the author didn't want a mystery but instead wanted to write more books, which I later found out he did, so that was no fun. Glad I read the whole series though, an interesting escape and still a nice testament to love!
The beautiful connection between two strangers who have never met. The romance and mystery and the story which progresses through the series of postcards and letters exchanged between Griffin and Sabine, leaves the reader wanting more at the end of book. As the story is progressing, one starts wondering if they are real of figment of imagination. While a voyeuristic touch of reading someone's mail is fun, the illustrations are glorious. Love every page of this series!
Griffin and Sabine is a unique “illustrated novel” that creates a wonderment of flights of fantasy, love-lust, intrigue, and mystery all skillfully contained in the writing of postcards and letters between a lonely young postcard maker in London and a stamp designer from the very difficult to find group of islands in the South Pacific.
Their story is revealed through a series of postcards and letters.
One can only feel somewhat that they are being allowed to ‘peek’ into the very private lives of Griffin and Sabine, and their own developing love story, or an attempt at self-understanding.
Left me speechless
Today comes your card saying you were in this house for three days after my return.
The Golden Mean is the tale of Griffin and Sabine's journey towards one another, sometimes dreamy, sometimes desperate, sometimes nightmarish.
The golden mean--the harmony of perfect balance--is what they seek in the haunting conclusion of this extraordinary correspondence.Review- A beautiful end to this story.
I wanted more from the villain, like who he was, and why he was doing what he was but in the end it is about Griffin and Sabine.
She is still the beautiful mysterious woman who contacted Griffin at the beginning of the books.
As beautiful as the other three books in the trilogy, we get a little closer to conclusion in this book. I do still love them all, but have to say that I was disappointed in the ending. Maybe I'm not artsy enough? philosophical enough? tarot-card-reading enough to get it...? Of course, I still recommend the entire trilogy for the experience they give, but I do wish the ending was more comprehensible, as I sit here scratching my head. Seems such a lost opportunity somehow...
I LOVE THESE BOOKS.ALL CAPS. LOVE.
One is that Griffin and Sabine found each other, and since they no longer needed to view each other through dreams and visions, they started seeing works of someone else.
What strengthens my idea that they have been brought together is the fact that the last letter uses the plural 'we' and the stamp is the first painting that Sabine asked Griffin to send her.
I think Griffin was a patient of severe multiple personality disorder and had been sending those letters to himself (how from different parts of the world each time, I can't justify).
I discovered this Trilogy by Nick Bantock when I picked up Griffin & Sabine for a dollar at our local library book sale.
I immediately went to the library and checked out all of the Nick Bantock’s books (also an advertisement for libraries).
The books are set up as a correspondence between two artists: Griffin, who illustrates postcards and Sabine, who illustrates stamps.
Definitely an excellent read accompanied by beautiful illustrations… creativity at its best!!!There is a CD game, Ceremony of Innocence: Griffin & Sabine, based on this trilogy, that was produced in the late 90’s by Peter Gabriel’s Real World Multi Media team..
3. Finally I have reached the end of the series. This book has definitely met my expectations and beyond, the end ties everything together and answers all the questions that were bubbling in my brain ready to explode. Yes, Griffin and Sabine are living together and have a child. It is so thrilling to leave these series on a happy note. I love how Griffin and Sabine knew there love was so strong. They were willing to sacrifice anything and everything in their life just so that they could be toget
I think it’s very clever of Nick Bantock to dwell many questions throughout the series and only on the last page answer the big question everyone had stuck in their minds, did Sabine and Griffin end up together?
Once you start reading the series you won’t put it down till it’s finished.
The postcards Sabine and Griffin send to each other have the most gorgeous art on it.
Art is a big motif throughout the series, it is the connections and similarities like art that bring Griffin and Sabine together.
This beautiful trilogy of fascinating novels, in which the reader pulls out the letters and reads the postcards of the two main characters, was a quick, but not entirely easy read for me.
The ending of "The Golden Mean" (the last of the trilogy) left me a bit dissatisfied, until I realized it had to end that way.
When there is a correspondence between two people, there is so much left unsaid.
We only get half the story, and when the correspondence ends, the story ends.
Beautiful, thought-provoking, and such a fun way to read books.
This is the last in the trilogy and again in trying so hard to be different and an unusual and beautiful format, the plot is seriously lacking.
Again, took me ten minutes to read, and the sudden introduction of the 'villain' is a little amusing rather than scary.
Leaves you wanting more but not in a good way.Disappointed as I read so many reviews and was looking forward to this trilogy but they are just pretty to look at and flick through.
Give them a try, but maybe borrow them instead of buying.
Just fascinating.
Just fascinating.
A discussion group on this series should be lively.
Oh the possibilities!
Anyone can read this series in a day.
For some, the story and its myriad facets will remain for a long time.
What really did happen?
I would like to recommend these books to everyone, but they aren't for everyone.
Some won't appreciate the quirky, odd, meaningful art.
Most would like the format, I'd guess.
Some won't like the unknowns, but I find them delicious.
Food for the mind.
And the details.
If you read it, pay attention to all the details on every page.
Here's the BIG pay off! And it's TOTALLY worth it. If you've been following along wondering, will they? Won't they? Where the hell are they and why the heck can't they get their shite together? Then this is the greatest artistic love story, EVER. With the most beautifully illustrated postcards, notes, envelopes, that transcend even the most hard hearted of you out there. (Like me!) Art is life, and if you throw some love in there with it, it's magical.
As with the 2 earlier books I liked the postcards and the envelopes as artwork. However I didn't feel like the tone of the cards/envelopes matched the content of the letters as well as it did in the first book. I also felt, despite the subtitle, that nothing was really concluded which was disappointing.
For a "conclusion" to a trilogy, this book is really lacking. I just don't get the hype. Griffin himself says it best: "To tell the truth, I don't know about the story, but I quite like the pictures."
These books were some of my favorites when I was in high school. I read this in 1997. My notes then were: "Excellent artwork, as well as a compelling story. Easy read, but fascinating and unique."
