https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31964.The_Starlight_Barking
I'm not one for dog stories, but I loved this imaginative little classic and the author's unique writing style. This book is definitely a great one.
I feel cheated.At the beginning of this sequel we find Pongo and Missus leaving their home once again so that they and their family can find out why all of the humans are in a sleep coma.The stakes feel low and I went through 60% of the book without a clue as to what's happening, so the story feels too drawn out so the climax didn't really hit as hard as it could.
The Pongo and Missus relationship is still stereotypical 1950s with him being seen as the smart one and she the emotionally connected one.
I would recommend this book if you're a die hard Dodie Smith fan.
The sci-fi premise where an alien canine comes to earth to speak to the dogs of earth may sound odd at best, but this is a kids' book and I think Smith was attempting to connect with the growing interest in sci-fi in the 1960s when she wrote this.
(Ms. de Vil is actually in the book, but she sleeps through all the action—you'll have to read the book to understand why.)For dog lovers, it's a charming book nonetheless and for those who find Smith before Disney made her work a household name to be an interesting author, it's worth reading.
I mean, it was cute.
I never read the first one, but I obviously know the story.
I won't be keeping my copy, because I've been trying to get rid of any kid/chapter books I won't want my future kids to read.
Not that there's a specific reason for them not to read this.
I just didn't feel like it would be particularly edifying or constructive to them.
And it was a little weird.A weird thing that I actually did like about it, was that Pongo and Missis represent a really good picture of marriage.
As I said the characters were delightful and it was lovely to see much of the original cast and to meet some new faces as well which included the dog version of the British parliament.What I enjoyed most about the novel was the story itself which takes on a bit of a science fiction slant which I was not expecting at all and since I don't want to ruin it for anyone who may read it let me just say that I thought it was rather unique to have that in a child's book about dogs and I think Dodie Smith did a lovely job incorporating the science fiction aspects into her book in a way that wasn't to high brow for children to understand and like.
Dodie Smith's writing is always rather fun, but The Starlight Barking does suffer when taken as a sequel to A Hundred and One Dalmatians.
It just doesn't really work with the fun and witty first book.
The humour in this book is sort of at the dogs' expense, really: laughing at Cadpig and her self-important ways, and the Cabinet of dogs echoing the real Cabinet, and things like that.I loved it a lot when I was younger, but the mismatch is unbearable somehow now.
This book is certainly fun, though it lacks the spark that made One-Hundred-and-One Dalmatians great. ((Side note: If you think that story is merely a Disney movie, think again. Go to the library and check it out. It's such a great book and a wonderful read-aloud.))Dodie Smith certainly spins wonderful tales of the world that dogs inhabit. I am very much looking forward to reading these with Arthur one day soon.
but instead of exploring this marvelous character any further, the book hurries the plot along, squeezing the revelation, offer, resolution and epilogue into roughly the last third of the not-so-long book.Beyond the broken pacing, I can't help but notice how the themes are not really what you'd expect from the sequel to 101 Dalmatians.
I loved the first book, and I loved the surreal plot teaser/summary, but the book just failed to deliver in the plot department.
However, in the light of the wonderful “One Hundred and One Dalmatians,” I prefer to think (delude myself?) that fault lies with the erring and unnamed editor at William Heinemann whose imagination was no doubt entirely caught up in the Space Race, science fiction, and should instead have taken out and shot at dawn as a lesson to prevent Penguin from later adding the title to their Puffin range.I had not read this book during my childhood.
But not, of course, dogs, and oddly one child and one cat.
I rated it a 7 out of 10 because it gets really confusing who is who but it is a really good book but it does get really confusing.I would recommended this book to teenagers or adults who can understand who is who and likes the 100 dalmatians.This book is about the mother and father of the 100 dalmatians and how Mrs. Dearly isn't waking up.
Since Mrs. Dearly doesn't wake up they go to London to the king of dogs.
They go to see the king to have him wake up Mrs. Dearly.
Sort of science fiction with dogs, but don't let that put you off if you don't like science fiction or don't like dogs, because the plot and the characters will carry you through. And the whole notion of a sleeping London crammed full of dogs (and a flying tractor) regulated by traffic lights is just wonderful.
.Sequel to One Hundred and One Dalmations, but rather different in character. More magical and with a sense of the sublime. More awe-inspiring. Much, much less exciting and charming than the first book.
I read this sequel to 101 Dalmations several times in my childhood, and calmly accepted the author's choice to veer into science fiction. As an adult though, I'm less biddable, and find the premise of this book (which I can't describe with being spoiler-ish) just too weird.
I'm rather sorry I bothered with this one. This is a proper weird little book. It’s kind of a bible story - fable type thing and part political moral lesson. Very bizarre. Considering the whole book was magical themed, for me there was no magic or joy in reading it. Rather disappointing as I recently read and enjoyed The Hundred and One Dalmatians. What was the author thinking? Maybe I'm just too old to appreciate it?
A friend loaned this to me as a joke. It's a slightly bizarre continuation of the adventures of 101 Dalmatians and, at times, a bit surreal. I can't decide if it w meant as a children's book or not.
While the first book is charming and exciting, a delightful animal rescue story about family and courage and becoming more than you think you are, the sequel takes a major turn in style and content and tells a completely different story.It was nice at the start to pick up in the years following the events of the first book, getting reacquainted with Pongo, Missis, and their "Dynasty of Dalmatians," but by the end of the first chapter, things get pretty wonky.
Despite growing up with a deep love for 101 Dalmatians (the book, of course, and the animated Disney film - certainly not the miserable excuse for a live action version), I'd never previously read the sequel.
It kicks off with a fairly slow start, spending too much time recapping the previous book's events and re-introducing the characters, but it picks up speed and creativity as the dalmatians journey to London and form their animal version of human governmental structure.There are some less-than-perfect notes, certainly, and I felt Pongo held too much of the spotlight, but Missis and Cadpig were both wonderfully strong characters, with subtly profound dialogue.
Mild spoiler in the first paragraph.Set over a period of 24 hours, The Starlight Barking details the somewhat bizarre but still entertaining further adventures of Pongo, Missis and their now grown up children, about a year after the end of 'A Hundred and One Dalmatians.' Everything on earth is fast asleep except the dogs, who discover they have new 'metaphysical' powers, such as the ability to hear each other's thoughts and 'swoosh' above the ground.
Pongo and Missis and all the previous animal characters must go to London and discover what is happening, and what they are going to do about it.
I certainly won't be the first to say that this book, the sequel to the much beloved original, is more than a little bit odd.
I think it's safe to say Dodie Smith found either pot or science fiction in the interim between the two, and whatever it was, she liked it a little too much.That said, while the plot was weird, Smith's charming voice rings through just as authentically in The Starlight Barking as it did the original.
The characters haven't changed a bit, and I found myself enjoying the chance to see each and every one of the puppies all grown up.
Such a letdown, if I am really honest.I loved the original novel because of its charm, and yes, this novel does as-well - the British way of viewing the world comes through in the dialogue, and gives such a insight on the views of several themes not of the dogs, but of the society at the time.
Even so, every dog is individual, and what I loved is that everyone was believable - yes, they are talking dogs, but it was really believable!
Yes, the dialogue was incredible again, with Missis's view on metaphysical actually being more insightful for me then adorable.
A really enjoyable book.
It probably isn't what any first-time reader would ever expect for a sequel to A Hundred and One Dalmatians, which is probably why so many people give it a negative review.
But it's a charming book, full of atmosphere, and with a surprising amount of feel-good factor towards the end.
A very pleasant and satisfying way to read away one's time.
It's possibly better when read the second time when your preconceptions have changed, when you can appreciate it more for what it is, and not feel disappointed that it wasn't what you were expecting.
It's been a long time since I read it last and I'm not sure I remember all the details but when a book starts with an enchanted sleep and the responsible party is a star some of the small crazy details may be best forgotten.
I read both The Starlight Barking and The 101 Dalmatians before seeing any of the films.
I'm not surprised Disney went with "102 Dalmatians" as a sequel to the live-action film rather than trying to adapt this book.
To properly review this book I would have to re-read it but I do remember despite or maybe because of it's strangeness enjoying it.
I'd read The Starlight Barking a long time ago, and on a whim, I picked it up again recently.
While aimed primarily at a slightly younger audience, rereading it still provided me with the familiar feeling of nostalgia and charm that reminded me partly why I had enjoyed reading it so much the first time.
Despite having never read the original The Hundred and One Dalmatians, I felt that this book echoed the first in its inclusion of numerous subtle, clever quips and jokes, which still appeal to me even now.

I really enjoyed this it was a quick read and really lighthearted which is all you sometimes need.
Having reading this book directly after reading the original The Hundred And One Dalmations I found the story line amusing, what you've got to remember is that this book was published for young children so whereas for older readers may find the plot far fetched for a young child it would be entertaining and they may feel that it could actually take place.
Personally I love the idea that dogs can be so independent from their humans as I myself am a dog owner.
What an odd little book this is. It is a trippy acid trip that takes the charming characters from The 101 Dalmations and throws it into a weird sort of science fictiony dream fantasy featuring hovering, telepathic dogs coming to terms with a friendly ultimatum being offered by a benign but lonely star that wishes to save them from the impending nuclear war it fears humans will unleash on planet Earth. The dogs' pluckiness and downright British properness are the sole saving factors of this book; the rest is just wacky.
I came across this at either a school fun fair way back in grade school.
Not knowing that it was a sequel and only being vaguely acquainted with The One Hundred and One Dalmatians, which I then thought was only a Disney movie, I picked the book because I loved the title and the cover.
I remember really liking the story a lot, though it's never made me want to find the first book to read.
It did, however, make Dalmatians my favourite dog breed for a few years.
I think I'm going to have to dig up my copy and reread it at some point.
A disappointing sequelI loved 101 Dalmatians (the book & the cartoon Disney adaption, though it differs from the book in many ways), and was excited to find out there was sequel.
Unfortunately, the book is basically just one big disappointment.
Sure you have the same characters, but it's very mystical filled with telepathy and being able to do things because you think them.
The plot felt very contrived and I spent the book going "really?" I enjoy a good fantasy book, but this didn't fit.
I bought this book and will be getting rid of it.
Not worth hanging on to.Skip it.
This is the sequel to The Hundred and One Dalmations. It's completely different and a bit sci-fi but I actually enjoyed it. The characters are the same as ever but I wanted some more baddies! The story keeps you intrigued and some of the things the dogs come up with made me laugh. I would have given it 3.5 stars as it's not as good as the first one but you certainly can't accuse Dodie Smith of writing a sequel similar to the first book!
A sequel to 101 Dalmatians, in which our intrepid canines wake up one morning to discover that dogs are the only creatures awake in the world. I liked a lot of things about this story (particularly Cadpig as the Prime Minister’s dog), but I found the message decidedly heavy-handed and Sirius (no, not that Sirius, you silly Harry Potter reader) frankly creepy, and the plot falls rather flat at the end. I’m glad I read it, but I’m also glad I checked it out from the library.
