https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50856.Glory_Road
Heinlein’s only fantasy work since it gives the fantasy writer a run for his money, especially the Xanth series.
Maybe the coolest element of this book is Heinlein’s exploration of what happens after “and they lived happily ever after.” I have long said that the 60s were his zenith period, where he was at his masterful best, after the juvenile publication years and before his aging experiments with weirdness.
Glory Road is a fair representative of this middle chapter in his work, a fitting companion to The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, Starship Troopers and Stranger in a Strange Land; but it is also a pre-cursor of his wildly imaginative later works like The Cat Who Walks Through Walls.

And "SHE" is frankly a WOMAN, she also turns out to be an/the Empress of the multiverse.Good read, not typical Heinlein fare.
Glory Road is not only good, for Heinlein it's unique, his only foray into what I'd term "overt fantasy".
While a lot of his novels may push or cross the line between Science Fiction and Fantasy, this one makes no pretense at being anything but.
From a cosmic Empress who makes Dejah Thoris look plain to a warrior who can handle whatever comes with sword, gun.....or whatever, this is a fantasy.I recommend this one, fun, fast, exciting...why not saddle up, or pull on your SWASH top boots, BUCKLE on your sword, and come along on THE Glory Road.
When I picked up my copy of "Glory Road," I was met with a cover depicting a buxom woman in tights, a dwarf and a guy dressed like Robin Hood battling what appears to be a fire-breathing dinosaur and a blurb proclaiming this one of the "best SF novels of all-time." And I thought to myself--this is precisely why some people don't take science-fiction as a literary genre seriously.
The most recent is an interesting review-essay by Jonathan Strahan, a sharp [then] young Australian editor, which is spoiler-free: "Honestly, as much as I loved it when I was young, and as much as I've admired Heinlein all these years, it's hard to see Glory Road as being anything other than one for the history books." [note 1]Novelist and critic Alexei Panshin has an interesting, near-contemporaneous review [no longer online].
His undergraduate degree was in economics and history, not literature..." That's right, folks: He's not qualified to review Glory Road because he's not old enough!
Heinlein’s hero, like all Heinlein heroes is a fair decent guy who is brave, willing to learn, a staunch self-preservationist, and always threatening to beat his woman.
The heroine this time is a lady who is strong, wise and independent in every way except that she becomes meek in the face of her hero’s preening, self-assured, ill-informed, confrontational attitude.
The squire Rufo is the best, a bastion of common-sense, full of engaging anecdotes, and a generally pleasant take-it-as-it-comes demeanor.
I’m pretty sure I liked this book better the first time I read it.
The best part is what comes after the adventure is won.
I know what I’d do, but then, I’m no hero.
Няма нищо по -хубаво във вторник от срещата с добрата стара класическа фантастика .Да пътят към славата винаги е труден , особенно , ако трябва да се биеш дракони , да се местиш на различни планети , цената включва и женско сърце, но героите накрая винаги заплащат цената на своя успех.
It was for sure my least favorite Heinlein's book, also one of my least favorite SCi-Fi of all time.Not recommended at all.
Fantasy from a Science Fiction MasterI really enjoy the work of Heinlein, especially his lead characters who always seem well drawn and quite realistic, they always have their own unique voice and in Glory Roads' Oscar he doesn't disappoint.Beyond that however I really failed to connect with the book once it takes on the deliberate fantastical setting.
I wondered at the concept of Science Fantasy as stated on the brilliant cover for this New English Library version (probably my favourite part of the entire book) and hoped that it might just help me get past my aversion to swords and sandals and epic quests for grails of one kind or another.

If you've read Glory Road, you may be amused by this Quiz question.
An incredibly tension free picnic in the woods with your creepy, nudist/free-love aunt and uncle (both in their sixties with lots of warts and liverspots).In re-reading Heinlein, who was a favorite in my teens, I've enjoyed being provoked and entertained by a fellow who at his best was able to tell a good story while also holding forth on his pet hobby-horses.
There is no meaningful plot to get him to just shut up and tell a tale.At the beginning I was impatient for him to get out of the real world and start the story.
The first Heinlein that ever bored me.
An enjoyable book, that I've read before and in my opinion probably the last good book by Heinlein before he started getting too "weird" and focussed on human relationships. Stressing it is purely my opinion he has written some fantastic books, with wide ranging ideas and great perception of human nature, I was therefore disappointed when back in the 80s the wonderful balance he brought to his books began to be disjointed and uneven. All of that said he wrote some wonderful Sci-Fi books and those I still continue to read and enjoy.
I read this on the recommendation of my Father, who talked it up pretty big. It's a pretty good adventure based upon an attractive - if common - premise: an anonymous man finds out he's the chosen one and receives an array of cool weapons and takes on a bunch of enemies and wins the girl. The last part of the book moves into a political setting, where Heinlein plants some of his pet-theories about gender relations and the State. I remember these parts the least.
Many people miss the point of this book's ending. Heinlein didn't run out of steam - he wanted to explore the idea of what happens after the happy ending.
This book was not my cup of tea. It is science fiction, but this read more like "man's fantasy". I wanted to like the MC, but he liked himself enough for both of us. He had all the answers, the woman, the importance of being so special....ugh.....help me. I picked this one up because a friend at work really liked this one, and he actually wrote a review, which he rarely does. So I thought, "Sure. I'll pick this one up." This wasn't what I was expecting.This was getting so far-fetched, it became comical. So 2 stars.
I picked it up once when I had a coupon from Borders largely on the recommendation of a blogger I liked, who cites it as his favorite book of all time and, in fact, has taken many elements of his on-line persona from the book.Our hero (literally) is E.C.
He must be 23 to 25 years old, in perfect health, at least six feet tall, weigh about 190 pounds, fluent English, with some French, proficient in all weapons, some knowledge of engineering and mathematics essential, willing to travel, no family or emotional ties, indomitably courageous and handsome of face and figure.
This novel bleeds into fantasy, unusual for Heinlein, even though he keeps star gates around for shuffling our hero off to other worlds.
:-)Though not one of Heinlein's great character novels, I still sympathized with the character.
Too often, people have purpose inflicted upon them through need of keeping body and soul together, and it is limited to barest survival.
Permanent solution of such material concerns doesn't eliminate a need for purpose -- it exacerbates the situation.Finally, in 2012 they released a new audio production of this book.
That is the case here, but the sound quality on the old tape dub was so bad that I switched anyway.
After I Will Fear No Evil I was hesitant to pick up another Heinlein book, but we have so many on our shelves.
Heinlein spends too much time emphasizing Star’s inherent femininity, making her cloying and obnoxiously obsequious.
The twist at the end is quite suitably pulled off and definitely worth sticking around for if only because it reveals a refreshingly intelligent reason for Star’s temperament.
It’s also worth sticking around for because in the end this is not a story about men and women but a clever, cutting critique of accepted moral and social conventions.
Heinlein always knows how to start a story, and here he does his best to lay out the foundation with flair. It’s interesting and a good read … er … up until the actual plot starts.Once our hero begins his quest, the entire plot and dialogue degrade into sexist tripe. Oh, I know this is a product of its time. I grew up during the 60-70s. Still, even making that allowance, this boils down to nothing more than some random guy having to “save” the girl. And threaten her with a spanking when she actually has an opinion. Ugh.
This one seems to annoy heinlein fans who feel it encroaches on his more sci-fi works. I can see where they're coming from, but honestly, it's just a great romping read. Lying on the grass on a sunny afternoon with a cold drink and an hour or so to kill, in my case. Plot? what plot? it's your standard hero-on-an-adventure thing, with the beautiful woman thrown in for fun. somehow it's all tied together though, and made me want to carry on with it despite the sheer sillyness.
After this novel, and beginning with 1964's "Farnham's Freehold," Heinlein's right-wing libertarian voice began to obtrude ever more shrilly, in a tone that most people seemingly cannot describe without using the word "hectoring." "Glory Road" does find its author grumbling about the state of the world, in what British sci-fi critic David Pringle has called a "grouchy but amusing auctorial tone," but more restrainedly than later on, and lightened with a good deal of mordant humor.
Notice:I am afraid you who follow me here are going to be reading about a larger number of old books this year.
Of course, if you are not as ancient as I am, 1963 might have been a past life for you!Review:This is the 14th book I have read by Heinlein.
In Glory Road he uses his fast-talking, strutting his stuff voice for the main character Scar and his adventure yarn style.Scar Gordon is a disillusioned army veteran in the Cold War years.
Off they go on what she calls "the glory road." Traveling through space, on a quest against strange foes, they adventure on strange planets and through time warps.
"willing to travel, no family or emotional ties, indomitably courageous and handsome of face and figure. Permanent employment, very high pay, glorious adventure, great danger"Doesn't every guy wish they had answered a classified like that?
SEXIST! Needless to say I am not keeping my copy of this. EC gets hired by this incredibly gorgeous woman on the French Riviera for heroing and travels. She doesn't mention it is in other worlds, or how very dangerous it would be or what her real position is. Actually the other guy in the story is a lot more interesting than the female or the hero. But not enough to bother keeping!
It crosses so many genres that I can only say Heinlein has crossed the fantasy of a quest with the sci-fi of multiverses and laser ray guns, added a few pinches of swords and daggers vs strange magical animals or/and aliens from other dimensions.
but even this is done in a pleasant way.His most interesting look at Earth culture from the offworlder/trans-dimensional-human was about prostitution.
In the book there is no prostitution anywhere in any universe or dimension EXCEPT Earth.
Unless you dislike ether fantasy - which it isn't heavy on - or sci-fi this book is a great relaxing read and a great romp.
Apparently, this is one of Heinlein's few attempts at fantasy.
Firstly, Heinlein cannot resist the need to rationalise the miraculous.
Secondly, we see this fantastic world through the eyes of a protagonist drawn from our contemporary world.
He is a character we can all relate to and, through his eyes, relate to the fantastic events that transpire.Most importantly though is that there is no simple "happy ever after".
He is continuing to impress me with his versatility as a writer and look forward to my bext Heinlein installment.
No Spoilers.I have read quite a bit of Heinlein over the years, but never his fantasy. I enjoyed this quick story, of our foreign hero, female lead, and supporting characters, as they make their way through this story. This is story is quite reminiscent of The Princess of Mars, and his own Farnham's Freehold (for world building) as our hero is transported to this strange world full of unusual customs, people, and trials. I wonder why Heinlein never revisited this world to extend the story?
There were parts of this Fantasy novel that I really liked, but so much of it was rather revolting. This novel from his middle-years is reflective of many of this novels at this time and after. Full of moral relativism and free love. This is Fantasy as in his wish-fulfillment fantasy. Still I expect this from Heinlein, but this book rather annoyed me and I especially disliked the ending.On the plus side Branson Pinchot's narration was top-quality. To bad it was wasted on this source material.
I like to reread books by favorite authors, and I read all of Heinlein's stuff when I was a teenager.Most of them are hard to find now, so when I see them in a used bookstore I usually snap them up.For the most part, this one is justly forgotten.
I'd describe what it's about, but it doesn't really matter.Oh, all right, why not: a soldier meets a gorgeous Amazon at a nude beach in France and follows her to an alternate universe where he fights dragons with swords.
He acts like a typical Heinlein hero, but not as interesting.
Happy now?
