https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336228.Taiko
You know there used to be this thing in Japan called the "Sengoku" period which was basically civil war all over the place, the Shogun was kind of a loser and every lord of any clan tried to become the leader of Japan.This book is a fictionalized account of the life of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the guy who finally united the country, first under Oda Nobunaga and later on by himself.
In the end, a man's life lies in a continuous series of hardships and struggles, and the pleasure of living is not in the short spaces of rest.As you can see, it's a very "grandiose" style, but one that I find makes it relatively easy to read, took me about 2 weeks to read the entire book.
His progression through many positions in life is artfully described providing the reader with a detailed picture of his development.Although focussing primarily on one man, Taiko paints an incredibly detailed portrait of feudal Japan during the time that war between clans was continuous and alliances forged and broken on a daily basis.
By the time one finished his oration, his opponent who chose not to do so, may have won the contest.Each section of the book was preceded by a list of the key characters and places but, frankly, there were so many that I badly failed to keep them straight.
Based on true story of Hideyoshi, the taiko, the ruler of japan on behalf of the emperor at feudal era.A fascinating story about a person who struggles from zero to hero, and yet still very "human" which his strengths and weaknesses.This book, together with "Musashi", indeed made me, until now, eager to learn anything related with japan. its culture, spirit, people, way of life, language...anything. Not mentioning that currently I am working in a japanese company :)
Taiko is an epic: prepare for a long, long 1,000 page journey.If you've got a serious interest in Sengoku period Japan, this book is essential: it walks you through the life of a samurai--in many ways the most successful samurai ever--and gives you a front-row ticket to the great battles of the period.
Hideyoshi was not a macho warrior: what made him a great general was amicability, organization, and diligence.
Jika burung tekukur tidak mau berkicau, tunggulah.” Haiku tersebut melukiskan Nobunaga yang kejam , Hideyoshi yang cerdas, lalu Ieyasu dengan kesabarannya.Taiko yang berjudul asli Taiko Ki merupakan buah karya novelis legendaris Yoshikawa Eiji.
Yoshikawa - sensei telah menulis puluhan cerita fiksi, beberapa di antaranya adalah Edo Sangokushi, Sangokushi (penulisan ulang Romance of Three Kingdoms), Uesugi Kenshin, Ooka Echizen, Shin Suikoden (penulisan ulang Outlaws of The Marsh), Shin Heike Monogatari (penulisan ulang The Tale of Heike) , dan masih banyak lagi.Sekitar tahun 90 – an novel Taiko pernah dirilis sejumlah sepuluh volume sebelum digabung menjadi satu buku seperti versi baru.
The story is captivating and the subject matter is rich with possibility.
The virtual avalanche of Japanese names, for both places and people make it sometimes extremely difficult to follow some story lines.
A character might appear, then reappear later in the story.
Inability to track key characters is a major hindrance to enjoyment of the story.
As I pointed out earlier, the subject matter is fascinating and the story is well worth telling.
The obvious comparison between this novel and Shogun must be made.
It deals with much the same subject matter with none of the shortcomings listed above.
tarik napas lega saat menutup cover hc-nya. akhirnya selesai juga. Yoshikawa sensei memilih untuk menuntaskan kisah ini saat Hideyoshi mencapai puncak kekuasaannya sebagai Kampaku. Bukan saat ia "mengkhianati" Hidegutsu. Bukan saat ia terkalahkan dalam penyerangan terhadap Korea. Bukan pula saat Perang Sekigahara. Dan untuk itu, aku bersyukur dan rela memberikan bintang 5 penuh kepadanya. Buku Taiko ini benar-benar novel tentang kemenangan Hideyoshi. Review lengkap ada di https://readbetweenpages.blogspot.co....
Lalu, saat Kopdar Goodreads di Rawamangung kemarin, saya berbincang-bincang dengan Haikal mengenai buku The Swordless Samurai itu.
Taiko bisa mengobati penasaran saya akan lika-liku detil kehidupan Hiyoshi, nama kecil Hideyoshi.Ketika semalam saya membuka buku ini, satu letupan kecil yang keluar dari mulut saya.
Kali pertama bertemu, Danjo yang baru pulang dari pertempuran memanggil Hideyoshi dengan nama kecilnya, Hiyoshi.
Samurai, Hiyoshi.""Ya."Lalu terucap wejangan yang saya kutip di atas dari Kato Danjo.
Keluarga Hachisuka Koroku tidak seperti mereka, dan kurasa aku sudah memperingatkanmu mengenai ini." Yang itu ceramah dari Korocuku kepada Tenzo, salah satu anggota keluarganya.
This book gives you a very clear and magnificent outlook on feudal Japan. I felt everything with the characters - their sorrow, happiness, love, fury. Needless to say that the history of Japan is, for me, one of the most interesting.An excellent book. The writing style just gives me the chills on the important occasions the characters have.An excellent read. A must do for every japanese culture lover.
However the main reason it took so long is that I didn't want it to end.This is probably a novel more for the Japanese history buff, or the samurai nerd, however, like other Eji Yoshikawa novels like Musashi, there is a lot of practical wisdom in there, particularly for those interested in long-range strategy.This is the story of the rise and rise of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the second of Japan's three unifiers, who dominated in the later half of the 16th century during Japan's Warring States period, known as the Sengoku period.
Eiji Yoshikawa’s historical novel TAIKO chronicles the life of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the 16th-century unifier of Japan.Of humble origins, Hideyoshi found a way to attach himself to the court of the powerful Oda Nobunaga.
After Nobunaga’s death, he succeeded in unifying Japan, completing the task Nobunaga had started.The novel bears some similarity to Yoshikawa’s MUSASHI, which traced the growth of Miyamoto Musashi, Japan’s greatest samurai.
Both characters achieve their goals through single-minded perseverance and self-sacrifice, and both novels are compelling reading.In his introduction to MUSASHI, the translator points out that Yoshikawa’s novels are far more historically accurate than novels like James Clavell’s SHOGUN, which I throw in for what it’s worth.I highly recommend both Yoshikawa novels to anyone with an interest in feudal Japan.
Bagaimana jika seekor burung tak mau berkicau?Nobunaga menjawab, "Bunuh saja!"Hideyoshi menjawab, "Buat burung itu ingin berkicau."Ieyasu menjawab, "Tunggu.".Orang besar tidak lahir krn kemampuannya semata.
Ia pun harus memiliki kesempatan-- hlm 430.#Taiko berkisah ttg Hideyoshi, mulai dari ketika dia berumur enam tahun sampai empat puluh sembilan tahun, setelah itu dia tetap berjuang membuat Jepang sbg bangsa yg besar..Semakin kau mendaki sebuah gunung tinggi, semakin sukar bagimu merasakan kebesarannya-- hlm 956.Hanya orang besar dapat mengenali sesama orang besar -- hlm 1106#OdaNobunaga, #ToyotomiHideyoshi dan #TokugawaIeyasu sama" karismatik, cerdas dan memiliki visi misi luar biasa.
MUY BUENA: la historia, la novelizacion de la vida del protagonista a ratos atrapa pero bien.
ACEPTABLE: el ritmo narrativo a veces se estanca y se diluye en detalles que a un “japanofilo” igual le encantan pero a un lector estándar difícilmente lo hará.
JODER QUE MALOS ( ya, como adjetivo no es muy correcto): los personajes.
No tienen cuerpo, son nombres que hacen cosas pero no “veo” con cuerpo a ninguno.
Menos mal que son históricos...INFUMABLE: la cantidad absurda de nombres difícilmente memorizables que aparecen en las ¡1500 pags!
Entre nombres de personajes y de lugares es un suplicio.
Buku yang kayak kue bolu bikinan Ibu (ღ⌣ღ) sangat memuaskan~~Penggambaran berbagai adegan perang, perasaan orang-orang yang terlibat di dalamnya: putus asa, marah, takut, keberanian dan pengorbanan, setia sampai akhir—semua perasaan itu bisa dirasakan pula oleh pembaca, saking keren dan jeniusnya Yoshikawa-sensei menjalin kata-kata dan cerita ∑d(≧ω≦)Ini juga ga lepas dari jasa penerjemah, yang kuanggap sebagai Penerjemah Super ∑d(ﾟ∀ﾟd) Kata-katanya terasa mengalun, puitis tanpa menjadi sok-sokan

T,TJadi singkat ajah lah....bagaimana jika seekor burung berkicau?Nobunaga menjawab "Bunuh saja!"Hideyoshi menjawab "Buat burung itu ingin berkicau"Ieyasu menjawab "Tunggu"dari jawaban ketiga orang tersebut terlihat bagaimana sifat ketiga tokoh besar zaman keshogunan Jepang tersebut.Oda Nobunaga, sang penguasa Oda, brutal, gegabah, tegasDalam menjalankan strategi militer dia mengandalkan keberaniannya.
Dia lebih memilih merangkul semua provinsi untuk bersatu meskipun akan mengalami proses yang lama daripada menjalankan militer.Yang saya suka dari si Hideyoshi adalah ketulusan dan kesetiaannya.
Karena apa yang diperintah oleh atasan akan memberikan keuntungan pada mereka juga.Tokugawa Ieyasu, tenang, sabar, dan penuh perhitungan.
Meskipun dia juga akan megerahkan pasukannya jika Nobunaga, yang merupakan sekutu Ieyasu, meminta bantuan dalam peperangan.
Their divergent leadership styles are eloquently expressed in the answers to this question presented at the beginning of the book:`What if the bird will not sing?'Oda Nobunaga answers `Kill it if it does not want to sing'Toyotomi Hideyoshi answers `Make it want to sing'Tokugawa Ieyasu answers `Wait until it sings'Essentially, this is Toyotomi Hideyoshi's story: how one man rose from obscurity to be the supreme regent of Japan.
We see his successes and failures in both love and war, and watch as he ultimately rises (after many struggles), to become Taiko, the supreme ruler of Japan under the Emperor even if it is to be a short lived reign.I find this book fascinating.
One can imagine that the real history is somewhat like that, but I believe one would be gravely mistaken to take this AS history.
i believe it is important for readers to feel what the harsh realities of a samurai soldier life is, and the power politics among the vassal lords, but somehow they are not treated sufficiently.
Mitsuhide's brilliance was downplayed, while he was winning the wars for Nobunaga.
And the final episode of his life was seen as a blunder, which is inconsistent with his career trajectory.I would like to give it a 4*, but then i would have to put 6* for, eg.
А ако птицата не поиска да пее?Нобунага отвърна: „Убийте я!“Хидейоши отвърна: „Накарайте я да поиска.“Иеясу отвърна: „Почакайте.“Тази книга ме върна към не толкова отдавна изминалото време, когато изобщо се запознах с въпроса около хаотичния XVI-ти век в Япония. Въпреки че реално знаех какво ще се случи, понеже е невъзможно да си се поинтересувал от темата и да не си научил купища факти, беше много хубава книга.По какъв още начин спечели одобрението ми, добавих тук:http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2016/07/...
This book is simply amazing. I'll try to write a longer review later, but I was riveted from page 1. Hideyoshi is such a fascinating protagonist, unlike any of the samurai of his time, which is part of why I love this so much.
Good book on a historic period of feudal strife in Japan.
I wasn't sure I'd finish all 926 pages, but I did.
I agree with those who say the names are a challenge, the main character's name changing twice as a good example.
It's somewhat repetitive with one campaign following the next, one castle being taken after another, etc.
That being said, the various subordinate characters are interesting, and throughout, the book conveys a strong sense of what it must have been like to live in Japan during that period (assuming the author's version is historically accurate which I can't verify).
Hideyoshi aka Taiko is the boss! That's all you need to know and you should have a good memory for names and places :).
Filled with stars in his eyes, a fervent desire to become a great man and to put a smile on the haggard face of his work-weary mother, Hiyoshi left home at an early age, to chart his path to glory.After divagating across the country and failing to gain steady employment in a samurai household (the first step in becoming successful), Hiyoshi finally gets himself enrolled as a sandal-bearer (page) for a certain someone who was himself desirous of walking down the avenue of greatness: that man was Oda Nobunaga.
As suggested in the title, this is a truly epic tale of the life of Toyotomi Hideyoshi and the era of civil war in 16th century Japan in which he was a prominent player.
Much as with Yoshikawa's novel on Musashi, the author breathes life into the historical figures that he portrays in the book.
Hideyoshi has a charming ability to bend and break the rules of social convention to his advantage and extricate himself from impossible situations with his uncanny understanding of people.It took me two attempts to read this book.
The book centers around the life story of Hideyoshi (aka Taiko), the second of the three great unifiers of Japan, the first being Oda Nobunaga and the third Ieyasu Tokugawa.The story begins with Hideyoshi as a young child, and ends with him at the age of 50 as he has overcome the last great obstacle between him and his rule of Japan.
One of the advantages of seeing the Sengoku period through the life of Hideyoshi is that he begins life near the very bottom of the social structure of feudal Japan.
We get at least brief glimpses of the life of a farmer, merchant, servant, and peddler before Hideoshi joins even the lowest ranks of the samurai serving Oda Nobunaga.
This was a surprisingly approachable historical novel for a 1200+ page century old novel that includes over 100 figures from the Sengoku Period of feudal Japan.
I came in knowing a fair amount about the period, knowing the major figures like Nobunaga, Tokugawa Ieyasu, Hideyoshi, Nene, etc.
But compared to something like Romance of the Three Kingdoms, it's a much easier read.The biggest delight for me was the humanization of Hideyoshi, developing in an often comic way from an aloof boy to conqueror and unifier.
The storytelling is excellent in seeing how the monkey-looking boy develops his unique way of strategic thinking.
Looking forward to tackling Yoshikawa's novel Musashi next.
As its title says, Taiko is a truly epic novel about the life of Toyotomi Hideyoshi who went from what is basically the peasant version of a samurai to regent of Japan.
The book starts with his childhood and follows his quest to become a 'proper' samurai in a rather humorous way.
After he joins the Oda clan, the focus shifts to the bigger theatre and affairs of state until his victory over Tokugawa Ieyasu (who later started the Tokugawa Shogunate which lasted until the 19th century).
as a fan of Japanese culture and Japanese martial arts, this book was clear choice as soon as i knew about it.
it's awesome book explaining why samurai era was that short, but still deserves that much respect.
i think anybody can read and like this book, not only persons like me, interested in martial arts or Japanese culture.what i didn't enjoy that much was last part, written with distance, just to keep historical picture for reader.
i understand the point of this part, it also explains some things, i just had a problem to read it that's all.
An absolute must read for anyone who want to see Sun Tzu's Art Of War in practice.This book gives an accurate picture of the waring period of japan, when provincial warlords vied for the title of shogun.
The book follows the struggle of Hideyoshi in his attempt to become a samurai of worth, which he achieves (and then some).
The book is written in a style which gives the impression that Yoshikawa was there with these extraordinary characters.
As shown by Musashi, Yoshikawa Eiji was one of the best loved writers in Japan.Hideyoshi is a plucky warrior that the reader can't help but root for as he seems to be the only man capable of carrying the fantastic task of unifying Sengoku Japan.
The book, like Yoshikawa's, other works pushes all the right buttons.
Hideyoshi is always keener, smarter and less prey to emotional breakdown than other characters.
Herein lies the works biggest fault, Hideyoshi comes down as too one-dimensional.
One can look at Japan's NHK Taiga drama of 1996 about Hideyoshi to find a more rounded warts and all depiction of the man.
Buku ini bener-bener mengajarkan tentang seni kepemimpinan yang sangat hebat. Antara lain bagaimana mengubah musuh jadi teman dan kerendahan hati yang dapat menghindarkan sebuah pertempuran yang hebat.Perbandingan ketiga pemimpin dalam cerita ini pun memberi cermin tersendiri bagi masing-masing pembacanya, pembaca dibebaskan untuk menginterprestasikan sendiri siapa pemimpin yang paling baik sesuai karakter pembaca masing-masing. Walaupun pemimpin bernama Hideyoshi lebih ditonjolkan didalam cerita ini.Selain tentang kepemimpinan, buku ini ngasih banyak filosofi hidup yang dalam. That's why buku ini sangat menginspirasi gw dalam menjalani hidup gw ;DGak rugi deh baca buku ini!
