https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198779.Ben_Hogan_s_Five_Lessons
The best golf advice I've ever received was, "read this book." Hogan's lessons are timeless. They are delivered easily enough for any rookie or old-timer to utilize on every stroke. Each lesson builds on the previous one so that on each approach, you'll find yourself quickly going through each one. Read this book...it's way better than listening to "you lifted your head" for the rest of your life.
In my list of gurus, Ben Hogan appears this year for the thoughts he has captured in this book.
This book is a collection of five articles Hogan wrote on the "modern fundamentals" of golf for Sports Illustrated in the Fifties.
As for the tuition offered in this small book, I really believe if you can commit to every sentence written (there are not many words wasted) your golf will improve beyond measure (i.e. for me, that would be breaking ninety).
Hogan would still hate me for not committing my life to his every word, but I'll just have to live with that.
The techniques used in this book are almost universal. The first half to 2/3's of this 1957 book are in every golf instruction book. I've been playing golf for 30 years and I've been doing, or trying to do, almost everything is this book. Consequently, I easily adapted to a couple of Ben's moves and now I am ready for the Senior Tour.
This book helped me a LOT in learning to swing correctly. A perfect supplement to having a lesson from a golf pro (well, a few lessons!). Even helped my husband who has been golfing for years. There's always room for improvement.
listen to me and hear me now!
this is THE golf book.
this is THE golf book.
ben hogan dedicated his life to golf and so this is as much a memoir as a mini-treaty on the swing.
the artwork is masterful.
the analysis of the golf swing is what the science of the full swing is based on sixty years later.
it's a must have for so many reasons!
it's short, concise and hogan writes the way he swings ...
with absolute clarity and purpose.
and, if you think it's out of date ....
i love this book so much!!!!
I'm a terrible golfer, but this book made me feel like I don't have to be terrible. It turns out that I didn't know the fundamentals of the sport. I took a class in high school where we went to the driving range a couple times and got some instruction, I thought that was enough and all I needed to do now was practice. Turns out that was wrong. This book tells you how to golf. It's not going to tell you everything but it will get you started in a direction where you can get better.
I don't play golf, i don't intend to play golf. I have no idea why it's in my to read list but I read it. I liked it. I still don't intend to play golf. That's all.
The only complete catalog of fundamentals Other, later writers have attempted to re-interpret what Hogan wrote. Ignore them! Just do what Hogan said and you can play golf well.
Tim Ferriss recommended this as a book showing someone who is really skilled at teaching. Very good example of breaking things down, giving the why, and going into minute detail while still giving just a few concrete principles to practice. If I take up golf, I'd read it again.
Ben Hogan is the Ted Williams of the golf swing.
His "Five Lessons" is a superior instructional book with tremendous illustrations serving as a companion that help one to better understand the art of the swing.
Hogan has created an understandable and fluid read.
If you're a fan of the game and know some Hogan history, you can actually see that transformation within his helpful words, even if it is not mentioned in the reading nor does it have anything to do with "Five Lessons" itself.
Great instructional book on golf.
I've previously read several golf books by famous players and coaches but recommend this as the first book to pick up when learning golf as it clearly lays out many important fundamentals.
That said, I've been working on breaking 80 for the last few months and have found a solid fix for my falling towards the target line after my swing in this book that I had never heard previously.
Imagining sitting on the edge of a high stool during setup has fixed my off balance swing thus making my irons significantly more consistent.
Ben Hogan’s Five Lessons is an illustrative book that teaches the fundamentals of the golf swing including: the waggle, the address position, the grip, the stance, the backswing and forward swing, and the position of the ball at address.
Although many philosophies of the golf swing exist, Ben Hogan’s swing is still praised as the most elegant and aesthetically perfect and copied still today by tour players.
Hogan’s Five Lessons is an excellent starting point for improving anyone’s golf swing.
The only problem with reading an illustrative book is knowing any nuances in the swing that only a club professional can teach in an one on one lesson.
Excellent book on fundamentals of finding the ever allusive perfect golf swing (a new project for 2016).
Details on the "Hogan" grip, stance and posture and the swing itself with over 50 well crafted drawings and diagrams.
I expected instant gratification but now realize I will need time to fully incorporate this into my game (or not).
It's like learning to play the piano - takes dedication and regular practice.
Hogan gives practice exercises to help adjust and get the feel for his technique.
Also YouTube videos of Hogan in action is a nice supplement to see it all put together.
The normal human body — e.g., Ben Hogan, arguably the most consistently pure striker of a golf ball who ever picked up sticks, was no taller than 5’9” and weighed 150 pounds soaking wet — can be trained with utter precision to perform a series of intricate, interconnected movements time and time again, under enormous pressure.
The big muscles lead the small ones.
It’s easier to coordinate the movements of your hips, back, and shoulders in a consistent, repeatable motion than it is to do the same with your wrists and hands.
Start with the big things, the little things will fall in line.
Much more interesting than I had envisioned an instructional on golf to be...I bought and read this to be a helpful and supportive wife as my husband learns a new sport.
I wanted a bit of instruction for myself as well in the unlikely event that I ever went with him.
The end result was that I am very interested in learning myself now.
The instruction and illustrations in this book were excellent.
It also makes the sport sound so much more interesting, fun and inclusive of grace and choreography of movement than I had imagined.
The Golf Swing BibleSince I started to play golf I have been given all kinds of advice, hints and drills to develop a swing I could own and trust.
Some of the advice I got turned to be great and some of it not that good.
To me this book from Ben Hogan summarizes all the essence and fundamentals that you need for a solid swing.
Great reading, great reference book to re-read, and really the only book you will ever need to develop a proper golf swing.
A book that teaches basic fundamentals for golf (results may vary).
If you're looking for some different things to try with your golf swing this book is a good place to start, but I would advise that you don't live and die by these "rules".
I've heard it said, and I would agree, this book can teach you about more than just golf.
Almost everything that is written here can be extrapolated into a conversation about life.
Some of the same fundamental principles Hogan talks about with golf can be applied to life experiences; so this may be a good read for even non-golfers!
Stands the test of timePerhaps it should be the "classic" fundamentals instead of "modern" at this point in history. This is a book for every new golfer, as it breaks down the most important aspects of the golf swing, beginning with the grip. So many golf books are information overload. This one keeps it simple and to the point. This is my second read, and I think of it more as a reference book to come back to time and time again.
Ben Hogan's Five Lessons is a great book for any golfer to read regardless of experience. In this book, Ben Hogan goes into depth about all the mechanics of the golf swing and how to instantly improve your score by making a few key adjustments. His philosophy is to make your body naturally do the powerful work of the swing by building up tension and following the downswing order of movements to create the chain action of the swing.
Good, easy to understand golf instructional book. My wife called it my "picture book" because there are plenty of pages of (very helpful) pictures of the different steps in the swing process that Hogan describes. These pics are actually quite important to help clarify some of his descriptions. Not a very big book, but there is definitely a lot of information in here to help improve your golf game.
The golf swing broken into 4 fundamentalsThis is an awesome book. Golf legend Ben Hogan covers the golf swing and break it down into 4 fundamentals: the grip, the stance, the backswing and the downswing. Each fundamental is discussed in good details in one chapter along with plenty of illustrations to make the steps easy to follow.This is the book for every beginner who wants to learn the swing and every seasoned player whose wants to improve his game.
I read the first lesson very slowly while practicing each element as prescribed. As I moved to the second lesson, I determined that there would be value in reading through the entire book first and then re-reading each lesson while actually applying the principles in practice. I hope that I'll have the discipline to work on this some every day, so that by the fall (when it's not so horribly hot on the course!) I'll be able to play a round with my husband and actually keep score!
This book was very helpful to my game, from a conceptual standpoint. I understood what I should be doing with my swing better after reading and studying Hogan, I just didn't really take it to the course very well. Trying to self-teach the game of golf in one's 40s is very difficult, but this book and its excellent illustrations will provide a nice set of guidelines.
A top 5 all time. Beyond the classic character of the writing style, the ahead of its time illustrations, and the 1950s post-WW2 feel of the book (rugged individualism reborn), this is the greatest golf instruction book ever. If anyone wants to learn how to play, read this book. Highly recommended.
There is a sea of books out there about golf, but this one is unique because it was written by the great Hogan and is among the easiest to read and understand. If you are interested in learning how to play the game of golf or looking to improve, this is your book. When I can't seem to correct my swing, I always go back to the fundamentals in this book. I find my issue every time!
Simply an amazing and concise look at the intricacies of a sound golf swing. One of the original and one of the best I highly recommend this above all others for learning how to develop a fundamentally sound and repeatable swing. It uses accessible language and great illustrations throughout. A classic.
This book can make you a good golfer. Ben Hogan spent years on the practice ground learning how to hot good golf shots and studying how his body needed to move in order to hit long and straight. His successes as a player are testament to his mastery of the golf swing. The pictures and dialogue in this book are outstanding.
A delightful book; probably the best on golf ever writtenHogan had the best swing in golf. And he teaches it so elegantly. It is a combination of solid teaching combined with great anecdotes about Hogan’s own career in golf. What a gem.
I found this book to be extremely helpful. His approach to golf is logical, physiological, and at times technical, but his writing style is clear and concise. I'd recommend it for beginners like myself and for advanced players who might benefit from a refresher on the basics.
This is by far the best book on golf instruction out there. It's clearly written and the diagrams are a superb teaching aid. Practice these techniques and you will be way ahead of most people on the course.
