https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189598.History_and_Class_Consciousness
Geschichte und Klassenbewusstein = History and Class Consciousness, György LukácsHistory and Class Consciousness: Studies in Marxist Dialectics (German: Geschichte und Klassenbewußtsein – Studien über marxistische Dialektik) is a 1923 book by the Hungarian philosopher György Lukács, in which the author re-emphasizes Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's influence on Karl Marx, analyses the concept of class consciousness, and attempts a philosophical justification of Bolshevism.
History and Class Consciousness, which helped to create Western Marxism, is the book for which Lukács is best known, and some of his pronouncements have become famous.
Philosophy's aporias will not be solved through some ingenious philosophical argument; rather, they will be abolished, along with capitalism itself, come the triumph of the proletariat.
This book, particularly the central essay 'Reification and the Consciousness of the Proletariat,' is usually cited as the founding text of western Marxism.
Probably the greatest living representative of western Marxism today is the German sociologist Wolfgang Streeck, and his contrast with Lukacs is striking.
Writing almost a hundred years ago, Lukacs had this to say about the ideologues of capitalismIt has often been pointed out that the problem that forms the ultimate barrier to the economic thought of the bourgeoisie is the crisis.
This book is important for Lukacs' concept of 'false consciousness'.
Like most marxists, Lukacs assumes that consciousness is an understanding of ones class interests.
False consciousness is a state where ones true consciousness is clouded by capitalism, thus classes are living with a false consciousness that can involve commodity fetishism and alienation (or reification).
Only the proletariat is able to achieve true consciousness because of its opposition to capitalism.
Although presumably, after the revolution, and after classes are dissolved, everyone would achieve true consciousness.
Well, Lukacs was hinting at something very simple in this book: The working class is not always looking out for its best interests.
Initially one encounters very fine, clear, lucid writing.
The middle of this book is one of the worst I have ever encountered for head-spinning jargon, insolubility, and rhetoric.
The deadly 'middle' essay of the collection of 4-6 works, is the longest (probably 200 pps., all by itself) but once he concludes you find him wrapping up his remarks with the same brilliance and succinctness which marked the beginning of the book.
But what an uneven performance.I will probably retain this strange exercise on my shelf for its superb analysis of what Marxism owes to Hegelianism--I've never seen this aspect exposed more powerfully; Hegel is mentioned continually throughout the read--as is Immanuel Kant--but, whew..strictly reserved as a reference work.
What can I say? This book is essential reading for those wishing to get clear on the theory of alienation in Marx, or the theory that the proletariat occupies a special standpoint from which the world can be best understood. I've been reading this to help in developing criticisms of feminist standpoint theorists and it's hard to believe they even claim to have read the book (they seem to depend on the fact that the book is far less widely read than it ought be).
that “just the facts please” may have wholly only ever been brought about in service of the capitalist really fucked me up.
i’m of course further obsessed with an out to this, of the world prior to and beyond this violent and deplorable capitalist predicament.
what is this lively world of “‘human’ relations”?
also, how much of the proletariat’s historical preeminence founded upon their humanity for marx (i had an unproductive stumble through kornel mundruczo's *white god*, hoping for insight into lukacs' hungary, which i need to remember not to bring up here)?
The essays collected here, written in the years immediately following the First World War and the Russian Revolution, represent a sustained effort on the part of Lukács to articulate a theory of class consciousness as the nodal point of the historical dialectic and the human being.
It is then that the manifest objectification of the irreducible subjectivity of the proletarian appears as the condition by which the historical dialectic of capitalist society sublates itself.
Throughout the essays, Lukács's confidence in the ultimate liberation of the proletariat is predicated upon the revolutionary potential he infers within the dialectical process itself; his is a crusading imperative underpinned by a systematic theology – faith guaranteed not by manifest signs but by structuralist logic.
Long before the Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts were published, Lukacs was able to read in Marx's theory of the commodity fetish, nearly his entire theory of alienation, and reorient Marxism in a humanist direction.
If Marx has spent all his time writing philosophy, instead of mastering Political Economy, I'm fairly certain this would be the book he would have written.
and become a convicted Marxists from the revolution, until his death.There's undoubtedly a religious element to Lukacs Marxism, in the entire book I saw him disagree with Marx once.
In that sense the heavy thinking Lukacs does in the 1st half is merely to justify the need for the 2nd half discussion.There is much to be gotten here, but for me the split in the book leads me to think the book itself is flawed -- because there is no account of the role of theory within class consciousness beyond a tool for calibration.
If anything if theory works for calibrating consciousness than an engagement of consciousness and social realignment needs to be explained in terms of the relationship between theory and material.
Oh Lukacs, how I was expecting so much more. As often as your name is spoken of in reverential terms, this just seemed to be ponderous, self-deluding ultra-orthodox dialectical materialism, devoid of so much of the social awareness that makes reading Luxemburg or Horkheimer such a pleasure. Indeed, he criticizes Luxemburg for her demands of social freedom paired with socialist economy. Some of his observations on alienation and class consciousness are pretty wise, but a good 3/4 of this one can be thrown out.
I thought the Kowlakowski's evaluation of Lukacs as ultimately attempting to 'mystify' Marxism as a kind of relgion was accurate. And I can't help but feel that the idea of Praxis as a unity of Theory and Practice is problematic. That, his theories lead to a problem of determining 'false' versus 'true' consciousness.Revisiting this in 2017 - I think my opinion has changed quite a lot. Its a flawed but really quite complex work.
If someone were to say that across the United States, the communist party should storm the streets and murder shopkeepers the way you see people doing in Mario Vargas Llosa's Death in the Andes, I certainly would not endorse that.If, on the other hand, a party of workers in central Europe lived in conditions comparable to something that you would see in a book like Emile Zola's Germinal, I wouldn't be the person leading the charge, but social change of some sort would need to happen.I sometimes wonder about the way Marxist books are read abroad.
If Marx was the father of historical materialism then Lukacs was the synthesizing factor in all of its manifestations. To put it plainly, History and Class Consciousness is the perfect predecessor to the ideas put forth by Marxists years prior. He pays homage to the likes of Hegel, Kant, Schopenhauer, Luxembourg, and of course the mediator himself- Karl Marx. Even in his reflections, Lukacs is able to contract a method that seeks to rearrange the already established notions of class consciousness vis-a-vis socialism. In many ways, he stands in a league of his own in this analyses of capitalist society.
"History and Class Consciousness" is a masterpiece. Lukács is known as "the philosopher of Leninism", and it is here that he demonstrates the breadth of his knowledge. Should you require a philosophical justification for Bolshevism, look no further.The chapter titled "Reification and the Consciousness of the Proletariat" is, frankly, beyond my comprehension. Don't attempt a reading without a firm understanding of Hegel.
All the problems of bourgeois thought, the crises of modern society and economy, the feelings of estrangement and loss, the antinomies of philosophy, all the bad things in life are reduced down to one thing: Reification of the commodity form...
When the big crisis comes, however, the working class will see the capitalist totality for what it is from their privileged position as the commodity form (the subject-object) in capitalist society.
Revolutionaries seeing it as vindication of their ongoing hope that someday the proletarian messiah will come.
People like Adorno seeing contemplative instrumentalism only growing in strength and completely eclipsing any revolutionary hope.
Aunque Lukács utilizó la famosa pareja hegeliana en-sí-misma / para-sí-misma para describir la conversión en proletariado de la «empírica» clase obrera como parte de la realidad social, esto no significa que la conciencia de clase surja del proceso social «objetivo», que esté «inscrita, casi programada, dentro y por la realidad histórica y social»: la misma ausencia de conciencia de clase ya es el resultado de la lucha político-ideológica.
En otras palabras, Lukács no diferencia la realidad social objetiva del compromiso político subjetivo; no porque, para él, la subjetivización esté determinada por el proceso social «objetivo», sino porque no hay ninguna «realidad social objetiva» que no esté ya mediada por la subjetividad política.
Lukacs was a Hungarian philosopher who had a talent for walking away from his work at the drop of a hat, which he found much more salubrious than waiting for the cock of a pistol.
Becoming familiar with its vocabulary will help you immensely when reading the more modern leftist gobbledygook, as this work is a virtual sourcebook almost on a par with Marx's Das Kapitol.
Happy revolutionary enlightenment from reification to all you lefties out there.....Okay, one Lukacs-inspired joke before I go:How do you get to the worker's paradise??
It probably helped that I came to it after reading some Zizek, and was thinking 'dialectically'.
Certainly it is not an easy read, particularly if you're unfamiliar with the basics of Hegel and Marxist dialectic.
The other flaw -which is particularly noticeable if you've read Kolakowski's outline of Lukacs in 'Main Currents of Marxism' - is that it could easily be interpreted as a blank justification for Stalinism.
Lukacs was strongly committed to the party in a different era, but that shouldn't get in the way of appreciating his contribution to Marxist thinking.
My fave parts: 1) on reification; 2) the truth of the historical situation resides in the contradiction, or within the oppressed: "The proletariat always aspires towards the truth even in its 'false' consciousness and in its substantive errors."; 3) historicity of aesthetics (landscape, drama) 4) theory of violence which is omnipresent and comprises the totality of social relations.Interestingly, on page 102 there is a sentence that relativizes dialectics by inserting it into a speculative, aleatory universe: "Details which are subject to law and a totality ruled by chance."
A series of essays on Marx that emphasized the importance of Hegelian dialectics to his thought, and in particular to his ideas about historical materialism. This was before the discovery of Marx's earlier manuscripts that did indeed draw heavily on Hegel, so Lukacs rather nailed that one. Lukacs's essays also feature some rather vehement, Leninist-style class battle cries, his primary claim being that the revolution will only occur once the proletariat has achieved a full class-consciousness, an understanding of its place in history.
WARNING! This is a very 'hard read'. However, if you are interested in left-wing politics and Marxist/Marxian political philosophy it might be worth the effort involved. Lukacs is a clever thinker even if he is wilfully obscurantist in putting his ideas forward. His recasting of Marx's theory of alienation as 'reification' is genuinely interesting and stimulating (once you get to grips with it!)This is really one for the aficionados only - if you are unfamiliar with Marx/Marxians and dialectical materialism then this is not the place to start!
I actually only read the main title essay from this collection for a Frankfurt School reading group. Hugely influential piece which is easy to detect in Dialectic of the Enlightenment & other Adorno. Still, the style is often atrocious and the thought is now profound, now vaguely ridiculous in turns. Despite all this the work is a must read for the central stage appearance of the concept of reification.
I am only really reading the section about reification for my course, because i am already panicking about not doing enough work. reasonably clear although i increasingly disagree with the authors standpoint [i.e. orthodox marxist].in the end i thought it was a surprisingly easy read, very useful about the dialectical materialism although it kind of undoes its own premise because the one thing it reifies is socialism and the glorification of the proletariat.
Comment:Orthodoxy, for Lukacs, is above all, fidelity to method. If 'research had disproved' every one of Marx's theses he tells us that he would still be a Marxist if they had been disproved for 'scientific' (i.e., Marxist) reasons! Such was the importance of method to Lukacs. ...But isn't method always thus? - A faith for people without faith?
For new students of Marxism: skim Capital, but read Lukacs carefully (especially the section on Reification and the Antinomies). The middle section of this book was a highlight of my undergraduate Philosophy career. People seem to have a love/hate relationship to Lukacs, but I found his analysis to be the most illuminating and poignant companion to Marx out of all the other secondary literature.
Must read for anyone interested in critical thinking, may that be: Western philosophy from Kant-Hegel and Marx, Frankfurt School, Marxism, Feminism, sociology, history--the application is endless. Truly a master piece of the 20th century.
This book never even mentions Star Wars, you're thinking of a different George Lucas.
Western Marxism kinda begins right here.
I heard about this book a lot.
im actually focusing on the section on reification. though working on the other parts as well.
