https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/638247.Death_at_Wentwater_Court
Daisy Dalrymple comes from a titled family, but after her brother was killed in the Great War and her father died in the flu epidemic their estate passed to a distant relative (shades of Jane Austen!) leaving the remaining female family members somewhat impoverished.
Daisy is quite cheerful about working for a living though, and being a society girl doors open for her, so she’s off to Wentwater Court to to write a story for Town & Country magazine.
The handsome detective in charge isn’t, of course, in her class, but Daisy is an open minded young woman so who knows what may develop in the course of this series?
Shades of Downton Abbey!
I really liked Downton Abbey & hadn't thought I would, but there's a charm & many lessons in the old manor lifestyle during the sweeping changes of the 1920s which we're undergoing as well.
What was surprising was that a 'cozy mystery' could be so well done.
The mystery was quite a good one & I was given the same information as the investigators, so had the same opportunity to solve it.
Instead, they made a lot of sense & enhanced the story.
A cozy mystery is a good choice for a light read. I enjoyed this first installment about Daisy Dalrymple, who is trying to establish herself as magazine writer. The mystery was a good one, and there is a hint of a later romance. I think I will look at others in this series.
But when Lord Stephen falls to his death through the ice on the frozen lake at first everyone assumes it’s an accident…until Daisy’s photographs reveal that a human hand may have been at work…This is a highly entertaining mystery with all the hallmarks of a ‘cosy’ – the deeply unlikeable victim who ‘deserves’ all he gets, a rural location with a limited cast of suspects, an amateur detective.
Within hours, Alec and Daisy hve developed a mutual trust and understanding that sees them begin to work together as a team to solve the mystery of Lord Stephen’s death.OK, the plot is a bit silly really, with the various misunderstandings being not unlike a Wodehouse plot on a particularly busy day.
I get why people refer to it as a "cozy." Its a comfortable read, light and fun but still puzzling.
I liked Daisy's character, she's charming.
I like Chief Inspector Alec, who lets be honest, reminded me of Chief Inspector Jack Robinson from Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries (the show, not those awful books.) Daisy and Alec's relationship has great potential.
The switching viewpoints wasn't particularly confusing and conveyed an array of emotions although the characters aren't entirely distinct.
Its the characters that push the plot along.
Overall, an enjoyable light read with a good mystery and some satisfying romantic spark.
A comfortable enough historical cozy with likable characters, most notably the Honourable Daisy Dalrymple who hasn't let drastic changes in her family's fortunes get her down.
The ending also was a bit of a disappointment due to my feeling that the author let everyone off far too easily.
Or maybe I just like a bit more darkness in my murder mysteries.
All that said though, I did like Daisy and the Chief Inspector from Scotland Yard so I plan to read a few more books in the series to see if more substance develops.
Mostly enjoyable first book in a cozy mystery series set in England during the 1920s.
I did find myself questioning some of the slang used (such as a maid in a country house saying "wizard" to mean 'cool', 'neat', 'exciting' -- I know that this term originated in the early 1920s but it seems out of place for this character).I also had some problems with the ending.
(view spoiler)[While I sympathized with the desire of the family to avoid a scandal, I am opposed to the idea of letting the guilty go free.
(hide spoiler)] Because of this, I am unsure whether I will continue with this series...
Anfangs ziemlich viele Charaktere, aber dann hatte mich die Story.
Ein unterhaltsamer britischer Krimi!
Although it is the first novel of the series, it’s not the first Daisy Dalrymple mystery I’ve read.
At the outset, Daisy arrives at a country estate of an earl to write an article about his beautiful centuries-old mansion.
Together, Alec and Daisy find the murderer, and the beginning of their tentative romance made me feel happy for them both.
And although I could guess the identity of the murderer a bit before Daisy and Alec, it didn’t detract from the attraction of the story.My favorite quote: “The Hampshire countryside surrounding the station was hidden by a blanket of snow, sparkling in the sun.
Other guests in the house are more concerned about scandal, journalists such as Daisy digging up “secrets” to embarrass the upper class than they are about a man’s murder.We meet several other characters who appear in later books.
Phillip Petrie, Daisy’s brother’s best friend, hovers protectively, proposes frequently, and shares his wonder and disapproval with Daisy’s decision to work.Of course, Alec Fletcher, Tom Tring, and Ernie Piper are introduced, the New Scotland Yard team who work with Daisy for the first time with some reluctance and chagrined by her talent and persistency.
This book was pretty good... I wish I had time to say more about it, but I don't. :/Warning: there is some bad language in this one.
Wenn auch nicht spannend, ist dieser Krimi charmant und unterhaltsam. Ihr erster Fall führt die 25-jährige Miss Daisy im tiefsten Winter nach Wentwater Court. Dort wird der unsympathische Lord Stephen tot im zugefrorenen See aufgefunden. Alle glauben bzw. hoffen, es sei ein Unfall. Doch Miss Daisy weiß es besser. Zusammen mit den feschen Chief Inspector von Scotland Yard nimmt sie die Ermittlungen auf und beweist einigen Einfallsreichtum.
Knowing and liking Daisy is key to enjoying the series.Death at Wentwater Court is well-written and has historical details scattered throughout, giving readers the sense that they're watching events unfolding in 1920s England.
That said, it's still a satisfactory conclusion, and the friendship between Daisy and Alec shows a lot of promise.Fans of Rhys Bowen's Royal Spyness series in particular should like this series; both have similar historical settings (1920s and 1930s England) as well as main characters.
Ugh. Well that was a flat story.Flat like an opened Coke bottle that has resided in the fridge for over a week, and in a moment of desperation for something sweet and refreshing you lunge for said beverage and gulp it down, only to fall weeping to the floor as you try to scrape away the sensation of fizz-less syrup congealing to your tongue, and no feeling of satisfaction to be found anywhere.I thought I could happily get away with reading a fun, light, mystery.
But I couldn't flip pages like a maniac to find the end because it was on a Kindle.
MehDoesn't add up, too easy a solution, very convenient. Not like real life at all except for the rich getting off--though the author has made it seem ok since the deceased was supposedly such a bad person. Cheesy. I won't waste my time with more from this author.
Considering there are currently 23 titles in the series, I assume Dunn kept up the high standard and I’m not the only one who instantly became a bit of a fan of Daisy and Dunn’s writing.
I perhaps liked him more than Daisy at times and I’m looking forward to their potential romance.
The ending is overall too drawn out and I found I was a little dissatisfied by it and the reveal of whodunnit.Overall though I’m looking forward to the next in the series, however.
3.5 stars. A fairly standard cozy mystery, but I enjoyed it. I like Daisy. She's perky without crossing a line over into obnoxious. I enjoy her as aspiring magazine writer, perhaps one day novelist. I also really like her dynamic with Detective Alec.Also, liked the lack of peril.Don't have a lot to say about this - it wiled away a few hours.
Light and fun!
Aristocratic magazine writer Daisy Dalrymple shows up at a country house to do research for an article. But she gets sidetracked when the most unliked guest at the house turns up mysteriously dead one morning.Daisy and Alec Fletcher, the Chief Inspector sent down from Scotland Yard, work together to take statements of all the suspects and figure out whodunnit. Clear setup for those two to continue to work together in future books. Enjoyed about two-thirds of this book; the resolution was spread out a lot longer than necessary and didn't quite follow logical lines...
I look forward to the rest of the series!England, 1923
Mein Leseeindruck:Ich habe schon vor einigen Jahren ein Buch über Miss Daisy gelesen und war nun sehr froh zu erfahren, dass es Neuauflagen der Romane geben soll!
Die Geschichte ist „very british“ und Miss Daisy erinnert mich ein bisschen an eine jüngere Ausgabe von Miss Marple, die ich auch sehr liebe.
Von der ersten bis zur letzten Seite konnte ich eintauchen in diese Geschichte und Miss Daisy eine Weile begleiten.
Ich fand es sehr interessant, die einzelnen Charaktere nach und nach immer besser kennenzulernen und sie als Verdächtige entweder auszuschließen oder aber ins Auge zu fassen.
I like historical mysteries, so am glad to have found this entertaining series.Daisy Dalrymple, daughter of a viscount, has elected to work in the early 1920's rather than be dependant upon family members.
Daisy quickly becomes fond of several of the household members, so she hopes that further investigation will reveal the murderer to be one of those who is not so easily likeable.
As the investigation concludes, Daisy begins to wish that she would not have ever noticed the evidence of murder.
I thought that the plot fell rather flat at the end, but I enjoyed the characters enough that I will continue reading the series.
A very charming book!I found this book to be an entertaining, well written, fast-paced read that kept me guessing right up until the 'big reveal' was made.I loved the main characters of Daisy Dalrymple and Chief Inspector Alec Fletcher.I also felt that the author captured the both setting and the lingo of 1920's Britain quite nicely.I own the second book in this series, and was planning on reading another book next, but I do believe I'll be moving on to The Winter Garden Mystery next instead.
This is a nice gentle read. A great choice is you do not want anything too challenging. It is set in the 1920's and I grew to really like Daisy. I did really hate the resolution to the case but maybe it is true to the time period it is set in I am not sure. The few pages did reassure me about other books in the series.This is not a series that I will go and buy myself but I will actively look for them in the library and charity shops so I can continue Daisy's story.
Yes these are not the greatest pieces of writing and who cares. I read these because after reading rather heavy on the mind books, these are a way of letting off steam. They are a simple fun read, bizarre and off kilter, easy on the brain murder mysteries.A feet up cuppa tea book to chill and unwind...
Solved it immediately. Drowning in self defense! Who knew that was a predictable resolution to any story? I found this book very shallow. It was essentially marshmallow fluff in book form. It left me feeling a need to brush my brain to prevent cavities.
I love this series, have read them all. ♥
She lands an assignment for a series of magazine articles on country manor houses, and finds herself at Wentwater Court in January 1923 to begin research on her first piece.
So the atmosphere is tense and somewhat uncomfortable … and then one of the house guests drowns in an ice skating accident.
Daisy is a delightful central character and amateur sleuth.
The plot is sufficiently complicated to keep the reader guessing; I identified the culprit only a few pages ahead of Daisy.
I also like the developing new relationships between Daisy and Chief Inspector Alec Fletcher.
Bernadette Dunn does a fine job voicing the audio book.
Likable main characters, but a fairly predictable mystery*.
The pacing fell apart in the last 3 or 4 chapters with an unnecessarily long explanation of what transpired before that point and what was going to happen to the culprit.
Since the main character was not irritating, I probably would try another in the series in hopes of an improved mystery.
*Listened to the audiobook on a road trip with my husband and another friend.
We dissected the story as we went, which may have made it easier to figure out the mystery than if I had just read it on my own.
