https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101911.Vinegar_Hill
I now know why Oprah gave away cars and other amazing gifts to the guest of her show.
I have never been disappointed with a book from the Oprah Book Club list.
Unless your dog just died.Vinegar Hill has an amazing cast of characters, 98% of which I wanted to strangle on a regular basis.
If you follow me on Twitter, you would have seen tweets suggesting that I already had a deep hate for someone thirty pages in the book.
I’m whispering life changing suggestions to fictional characters.What I hate about writing these reviews is avoiding spoilers.
It's a very quick read - maybe not light enough fare for the beach but for the subway ride to and from work, it's perfect.
A brief synopsis: Ellen + husband + their 2 kids are forced to move back into the house that her jackass husband grew up in and live together with his abusive and emotionally unavailable parents.
Actually, everyone in this book is emotionally unavailable and also a little off their rocker so I bet you can imagine all the fun that will ensue.
Reading this is akin to watching a train wreck - and who doesn't love a good train wreck?
What is it with Oprah?
I don't always know when I'm reading an Oprah book (I come into possession of a lot of books with no covers somehow), but after I read this one I just knew it was on her list, had to be.
It was very bleak, as most of her selections are, and had very little to make me want to finish it.
It's exhausting to read about constant sadness, and I hate stories that feature weak, mama's boy husbands.Just once Oprah should shock the world and recommend a happy book.
This just might be the worst book that I've ever read. Or at least the worst book that I've read in the last few years. I'm only adding it because I'm making a new shelf for books that I read in 2008 and this is one of them. I never would have picked it out myself but a co-worker brought it to me to read - so I felt obligated. Not very well written and depressing.
This was actually a good read and I’m going to give it 4 stars.
Adjectives that come to mind: raw, bitter, dysfunction, pain, fear, confusion, hurt, anger, in need of serious SERIOUS therapy every single one of them.
I must say this author is so skillful because I literally felt this every time, as we read, we are in this house.
I enjoyed how each chapter unfolds a little more of the characters as well as involves the readers emotions in the story.
I give it 4 stars for the skill of the author, good story and emotional involvement.
Read the book and find out what I’m talking about.
I read this book in just two days.
Yes, this book is bleak and depressing, but it seems very realistic.
I find the end to be very hopeful; the wife decides to make a change right as her daughter stands on the brink of puberty.
One hopes that she has saved her daughter in time from making the same mistakes.
When you're living in depression, you can barely see past your own nose, and the author did a wonderful job of expressing that.This isn't one of the best books that I have read, but it did hold my interest and occupy me for a couple of days.
Their relationship, which we come to find out was only pushed to such a permanent state due to the impropriety of being stuck overnight together in a car during a blizzard, is barely existent.
Don't get me wrong, it's terrible (child death and domestic abuse and marital rape), but I found it difficult to feel anything more than vague pity because she was still inflicting emotional pain onto others with her behavior in the present narrative.Ellen is troubled and depressed and angry and apathetic, all of which comes in waves.
She finally learns some Real Truths about her husband's family (see: Tragic Backstory) and this, in the end, is when she is finally able to come to a decision for her own family.
For those who have grown up in a dysfunctional family, have been in a dysfunctional marriage, or have had negative experiences with strange, manipulative religion, you might appreciate this book.
The author creates a perpetual winter with this story, both in setting and within the characters themselves.
I appreciated the authenticity of this, and I believe it added richness to the story.Ellen also has to endure stifling religion perpetuated by everyone close to her, from the in-laws to her own sisters.
The decisions that she faces are hard ones to make, especially considering that the story takes place in the '70's.
I'm giving this novel 3 stars only because of the quality of the writing.
The actual story itself is morose, and rather self-indulgent...
I'm afraid that novelists often feel that to write well they must include and focus upon the truly horrible aspects of life while ignoring any of the light.
There was not one character in the novel I could relate to; they all seemed extraordinarily weak and childish.
When Ellen, the pseudo main character, finally decides to use her backbone, the novel is suddenly over.
I often caution against the bad writing/great story combination.
She hits you over the head with the misery of her characters, but to what point?Shockingly mean and violent events abound, but again I saw no point.
The only character that was suprred to action by the violent events is not even alive in the time line of the novel.
We never meet her and it is only through the fog of time that she manages to "help" our main character.
Our main character seems to want to change, seems to suggest she might, but I have no faith that if the book continued she would change or find happiness.
I picked this one up at a used book store on impulse, when I checked it out on GR I saw its ratings were on the low side, but my inner voice kept telling me to give it a chance. So glad I did. It's a tough read but so well worth it.
And Ellen is a woman feeling trapped to the brink of desperation.
Even Ellen's helplessness grates on my nerves.Then of course, I learned some things about the characters' past, small and powerful glimpses which were so well-written and almost too hard to swallow that turned my hatred to mere dislike and eventually heartbreak.
For of course, the characters in this book are not regular people at all.
How can they not strike at each other?The book is a quick read with one apparent theme since page one to the last- Suffering.
Before you do anything, please, PLEASE don't read the book if you're already sad.
At the time I read the book I enjoyed it..
It was at times disturbing - I wanted to sometimes step into the book and become a mediator but as in life, when you are so closely involved you can't see the big picture.
It's surprising how the smallest things can blow up when tensions are running high within a tiny house with too many people.
I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants a good read, or to understand what goes on behind closed doors of people who are forced to share a house together (family or not.)
I read this book in just two days.
Obviously it is a very quick read.
I made it quick because it is bleak and depressing, but it seems very realistic.
I find the end to be very hopeful; the wife decides to make a change right as her daughter stands on the brink of puberty.
One hopes that she has saved her daughter in time from making the same mistakes.
This isn't one of the best books that I have read, but it did hold my interest and occupy me for a couple of days.
Accordng to the Oprah Book Club reviews I have seen, most were negative. I decided to take a stab at one. WOW, now I completely understand why. In short this book is chaper after chapter of family dysfunction. Although I appreciate the author's sense of style where the ingredients are sprinkled throughout and eventually the full recipe is revealed. The end result is a tasteless tale. If you like books that leave you feeling mentally drained and you cannot help but skimming the last few pages because you just want it over with, then this book is for you.
This is a bitter and depressing story about a woman who has to live with her furious and acrid in-laws and finds herself further estranged from her husband.
The story itself was absorbing (I read it in one sitting in three hours from 11 pm to 2 am) but it was not very well structured or well written.
The ending was disappointing, not for what happened, but for the way it was written.
It felt like the author was trying to wrap up rather than let the story logically find its end.
What I learned from this book: that it is possible to be a beautiful writer and use your powers for evil rather than good. This book has WONDERFUL sentences, lovely flow, interesting angles, and it's so bloody depressing! I started skimming about 2/3 through because it was so depressing. A real mood piece, lovely images. Do what I did and keep a really nice chocolate bar on hand for when you finish. It will help keep you from sliding into utter despair.
I was disappointingly let down by "Vinegar Hill." Although the writing was solid and the characters well fleshed-out, I couldn't help but think that the back stories on some of the characters were too vague, and that the plot was unimaginative: a woman is discouraged by a troubled marriage and feels helpless. It all felt like it had been done before, and "Vinegar Hill" didn't really bring anything else to the table.
This downer is not my cup of tea. Sure made me glad I wasn't a '60s-era Catholic wife, though.
Books I feel "obligated" to read are funny things.
Guess which one this was.I'm not sure what kind of audience this book was written for.
It it bears any resemblance to your life, it's going to depress you further.
If it doesn't, it's just going to depress you, end of story.
It just kind of stops.
There is this vague suggestion that things are going to be better now, but it's almost impossible to believe it after the rest of the novel.
In case you are still considering picking this up (because it somehow earned Oprah’s magical stamp of approval), I have selected one sentence from the book that really sums it up:  “James will be quiet from having slept all day, his eyes glazed, his face still wrinkled from the dingy sheets Ellen hasn’t washed in weeks.”MY eyes are glazed.
This book makes me feel like I’VE been sleeping in dingy sheets.
A few family secrets were revealed that should have shocked – but I was feeling so depressed by the time I read them that I didn’t care anymore.
For those who rated this highly, I'm not quite sure what they found to rave about.
(?) This book left an overall feeling of hopelessness and discouragement.
It's about an extended midwestern German family of an older time (not quite sure when) and their sense of living according to God's word and their sense of duty to family.
That way of life was often stern and forbidding, especially if you were unlucky enough to be forced into a loveless and unhappy marriage and/or born into a miserable childhood.
Not a happy book.
I don’t know if it was typical of the time or not, but James parents, Mary Margaret and Fritz, are the most sour, mean spirited people depicted in a book.
I should have known, this being an Oprah book, that it would be sad, depressing and include a dysfunctional family.
The book bounced from inside the head of one family member to another.
I did see talent in the writing style but the depressing tone of this book took away from it.
I think the only reason this book sold a million copies was because Oprah read it, otherwise it would be nothing special
Vinegar Hill was similarly enraging.
The characters in Vinegar Hill are so lacking in charm and empathy that the atmosphere is poisonous.
Anyone wanting to know why equity in relationships is a *good thing* should be encouraged to read this novel and wonder if women's lives really were so controlled by small minded religious cultures in the 70s.
If you have a good job and relationship now, thank the women who went before you and remember it was not always thus.
Worth a read if you can manage to distance yourself from the lives of the main characters.
This book is about a strict Catholic's family dysfunction--but quite interesting.
If you find it fascinating how people used to stay unhappily married for LIFE (despite verbal and/or physical abuse) and base the rationale as their religion then read this.
My favorite part of the book is when the one of the characters looks down on another female character when she comments that she no longer has any desire for her husband in the bedroom.
The other woman then belittles the woman saying that she should provide in the bedroom no matter what, and denying her husband of sex would be denying 'more little souls for God.' Amusing.
Vinegar Hill is a book I have read three times now. It is about a wife, mother, trying to cope with a husband who is dysfunctional. They have to live with his parents because he has lost his job. I think Vinegar Hill is a great book. Read it in 2008, 2016, and now 2017
Probably the most depressing book I've read, but it still made me want to see where it was going. The ending was satisfying to me, so it made it worth the read.
The story of the in-laws from hell and the woman trapped with them.
A fair read. Very slow-moving and the characters were a bit flat.
This book dark and depressing, but also haunting and beautifully written.
