https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371024.The_Zebra_Striped_Hearse
The effective mystery--like Hearse--features two distinct stories: one narrative about the kind of crime we think we are investigating, and one about the kind of crime we discover at story's end.
In the truly exceptional mystery, the first story is almost as satisfying as the second, and the reader is surprised—and pleased—when he is compelled to exchange one set of assumptions for another.And that is the problem with The Zebra-Striped Hearse.
The Lew Archer character is fully formed here, however, and his detached yet compassionate voice make "The Zebra-Striped Hearse" somewhat more than merely an effective entertainment.
A wealthy guy hired Lew Archer to check on a background of his potential son-in-law.
It also seems that he is the only one who does not like the guy; him and the readers as I did not see the soon groom-to-be as a nice person.
I was curious and a little afraid to check how the genre of noir translated into this historical period; after all the common association of this genre is with late twenties and thirties (Philip Marlowe really does not feel like himself in forties).
The time changed and so did life, but some things remained the same and noir while changing a little survived the transition.
Yes, Archer does encounter the titular vehicle, but it’s hardly of crucial importance to the story, at best only tangential to the investigation.So why name the whole book after it?Of course the most simple and Occam’s Razor answer is that once MacDonald coined the phrase he really, really liked it.
From that point of view it’s a disappointment, but then this is a book which goes and contains paragraphs like this:“I went inside the club, where the late afternoon crowd were enjoying themselves.
As Michael Kreyling notes in his wonderful study on Macdonald, Zebra can be read as a prescient foreshadowing of the moral collapse of Golden State youth culture.
Consider, too, that Zebra was Warren Zevon's favorite Macdonald bc he identified with the snotty surfer who owns the titular vehicle, and you begin to see why so many b-boomers, wondering why paradise rotted under the concrete jungles of their deviated septums, identify with this one.OK, it's got a few faults.
I have a feeling it's gonna be my favorite Macdonald.
Επίσης, προβληματίζει το γεγονός ότι ο ντετέκτιβ Λιού Άρτσερ έπρεπε να εμβολιαστεί για να πάει σε μια χώρα όπως το Μεξικό, το οποίο, προφανώς, τότε, κατακλυζόταν από αρρώστειες λόγω δύσκολων συνθηκών διαβίωσης, ενώ εκεί μπορούσε κάποιος να πιει, μόνο, εμφιαλωμένο νερό.Στα σημεία των καιρών αξίζει να αναφερθούν η ανησυχία για την ενδεχόμενη χρήση της ατομικής βόμβας, η υψηλή φορολογία του εισοδήματος, οι τραυματικές αναμνήσεις Αμερικανών μεταναστών από τα γερμανικά στρατόπεδα συγκεντρωσης, και το ενδιαφέρον των Αμερικανών, πλέον, για την υψηλή αισθητική και την αρχιτεκτονική των σπιτιών και, γενικά, των χώρων.Στο 1ο μισό, ο MacDonald προσφέρει στιγμές έντονου μυστηρίου που θυμίζουν Άγκαθα Κρίστι ή Φ.
The tenth Lew Archer novel, California, early sixties, pre-hippies, WWII still well-remembered, freeways under construction, roads uncrowded, the border with Mexico safe and porous, and a woman walks into Archer's office concerned about her ex.
The ex, a Colonel Blackwell, arrives later, concerned about his daughter, who's fallen for a penniless painter in Mexico.
Blackwell hires Archer to check out the painter whom he dislikes, distrusts, and wants out of his daughter's life.
But the daughter's in love, and for once she's disobeying her Dad.Archer takes the case which moves him around the state, north, south, east, and down to an American community in Mexico where along the way the bodies pile up.
BOOK 3: Mid-20th Century Crime ReadathonHere, I move from McBain's 1954 "Cut Me In" to 1962.HOOK=2 stars: A mother and father (Colonel Blackwell) argue about their daughter's (Harriet) choice for a husband.
And why does Davis have a toilet kit with the initials of "B.C." Does the B.C. in anyway relate to Colonel Blakwell?
This is a beautifully done plot, with red herrings and twists and turns all over the place.
Dame Agatha Christie would be proud: she used initials often as plot clues/red herrings.CHARACTERS=4: Harriet has reached adulthood per her age, but is still a child.
An excellent detective novel. Macdonald was one of the best modern American writers.
Ex-colonel Mark Blackwell, a strait-laced army man, comes to Archer’s office to say that his only child, 24 year old Harriet, is about to run off with a penniless nobody who calls himself an artist, named Burke Damis.
Isobel Blackwell, his second wife of a year or so, is more sympathetic to Harriet.Archer takes a disliking to Mark Blackwell but agrees to investigate Damis to discover his background.
One of the girls is wearing a dirty but good quality Harris Tweed overcoat.Archer flies to Mexico where coincidentally(?) Blackwell’s first wife has been living in Ajijic (a real place) for ten years with her second husband, a retired dentist named Keith Hatchen.
3.5If you want to know what the story is about besides that it is a classic, hardboiled detective novel that dates from 1962--so expect women to be written pretty much the way they were in these sorts of novels back then--nothing contemporary about it, read the blurb ;).
This is the first Lew Archer book that I can remember reading (quite possible I've read him before and forgotten), and I liked it better than I thought I would.
I like it better than the Philip Marlowe books and I didn't even listen to an audiobook, although before I got engrossed in the book I did imagine a hardboiled detective voice in my head to get me in the mood.
A great mystery from start to finish that had so many twists and turns that I honestly kept guessing down to the last every pages.
I can't think of another book where Archer had to travel to so many distant locales.I enjoyed his relationship with the femme fatale even though (or possible because) it remained so chaste I like that Macdonald ages Archer and has the book take place circa when the book was written.
God knows Macdonald could have left this series in the 40's where he first created it but he's allowing his character to grow just like the world around him.
This is one fine tale. I sometimes find with detective stories that the plot gets a little too twisty and since it is meant as a light read I don't want to pay full attention, but this book has a clear path along the way to resolution. And many fine turns of phrase. One of the better ones I can recall
Pretty good P.I. mystery but the solution became clear to me about 80% through (which I view as a negative in a mystery book).
Ross Macdonald's mysteries are always so satisfying I'm tempted to call him the best. This one is from 1961.
There is more reliance on the hermeneutic code in Lew’s actions and in Macdonald’s prose a fact that lends a certain participatory air to act of reading the novel that contrasts the almost fly on the wall experience I had while reading both The Long Goodbye and I, the Jury.As stated above The Zebra Striped Hearse is an entertaining mystery that keeps the reader, along with Archer, guessing right up until the end.
If you are a mystery fan and have yet to give Russ Macdonald and Lew Archer a try The Zebra Striped Hearse is a good place to start.
Until half the book is finished, the suspect is one man, a painter variously named Simpson, Damis, or Campion -- and then the suspicion starts shifting all over the place.
Before you've finished the novel you will have reason to suspect everyone, maybe even Detective Lew Archer.Part of this shifting scene of suspicion is mirrored by the fact that, within the space of a week, Archer travels from Mexico to Tahoe to San Francisco and back again in search of evidence that seems to become increasingly fungible.I think I will enjoy reading more of MacDOnald's Lew Archer novels.
Really enjoyed the 2 books I've read by him.
Sue Grafton said he influenced her writng, so I checked him out.
MacDonald's books have helped inspire new generations of writers -- from Robert B.
Parker and Sue Grafton, to Roger Simon, Jonathan Kellerman, S.J. Rozan, James Ellroy, and Richard Barre.
"Macdonald's writing added psychological depth and insights into the motivations of his characters.
Macdonald's plots were complicated, and often turned on Archer's unearthing family secrets of his clients and of the criminals who victimized them.
Combined the "whodunit" and the psychological thriller.
Even his regular readers seldom saw a Macdonald denouement coming."
I have been wanting to dip into Macdonald's Lew Archer series, and happened to find a cheap copy of one of the Library of America editions of his work (three novels of the 1960s), so I started with this one. I have no idea whether it's a good or bad starting point, but it's certainly a good mystery, with plenty of twists and turns. Lots of good character work and scene setting (as the hunt takes Archer from LA to Mexico to SF and Lake Tahoe). Looking forward to reading more of these.
Lots of plot twists in this book, the final two caught me by surprise. Wonderfully plotted, excellent descriptions of Lake Tahoe, Central and Southern California, and Mexico. The characters were wonderfully developed. My second Macdonald/Lew Archer book, both have been outstanding and I'm hoping to read all in the series. Can't believe I hadn't discovered Ross Macdonald earlier, but better late than never.
This was one of the more convoluted Macdonald plots, perhaps packed with one character and several red herrings too many.
I remember the ending being good but the plot was a tad too convoluted.
At the time, I was going through some major life changes and the 2016 presidential election was unfolding in the background so I was distracted enough not to have fully engaged with this like I should have.
And it leaves the reader with the typical maudlin feeling as I reflected on my life and my own family dynamics after finishing.I wouldn’t recommend it as your gateway to the Archer series but it is good.
4,5 , well-constructed rolling plot changing suspects,suspictions,names, overlaying new traces and mysteries with purpose not to implode but outward going questions and covered with complicated half-true whether irresponsible human beings and witnesses through the storyline more dazing, intricating,misleading & mistaking PI ( and police-but police is only sideways part for investigation ) towards the surpising revealed end, uprising with 2 accidental events - who are coat on beach and "like end after end" bystender woman on airport pointing to real murderer escaping hidden by suicide of "false murderer"
Like King and Straub also look a hair away from real literature, but this impression collapses if they really do throw out the quality genre smoke and mirror with which they create this impression.
She had the faintly anachronistic airs of a woman who had been good-looking but had found no place to use her looks except the mirror.At the moment I was the mirror, and she smiled into me intensively.The broken jigsaw of Los Angeles tilted and drifted backward into brownish smog.
Through the streaming windshield they looked like the grey and shrunken ghosts of horses.
MacDonald - a writer I had read as a teenager, but didn't remember being that impressed with.
I just don't want to have to flip back looking through the previous chapters trying to remember who the hell this character was and why I should give a damn.
I still don't know why the book is titled after a hearse that has nothing to do with anything really, and the ending was particularly confusing and unsatisfying - but then again, MacDonald wrote many books, and I intend to read more.
Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer detective mystery, "The Zebra-Striped Hearse" was one of the strangest, but creative, film noir stories I've ever read.
Set in California and Mexico the main detective, Lew Archer, brought to mind Humphrey Bogart in "The Maltese Falcon" and Jack Nicholson in "Chinatown".
Stylish, in a vintage late '50's/early '60's way, the plot was contemporary enough to hold up since its initial publication.
It would even be an excellent choice for a contemporary screenplay created in the noir genre tradition.
The aspect of the book that made it so memorable and unique to me was the way Macdonald described his characters and certain features that personified them.
An Oldie but Goldie... Xmas is prefect for revisiting Lew Archer.
Talk about a page-tuner, this book grabbed me from page one, and I could not stop. So had to get up early on Thanksgiving to finish this tantalizing mystery. Once again, blown away by the cast of fascinating female characters -- both Isobel and Harriet are so persuasively drawn, and thr plot, of course, superb. Bad news is I am coming go end of Lew Archer mysteries.
late masterpiece. wonderfully complicated plot unearths years of duplicity, misbehavior, dysfunctional family relationships. all perhaps symbolized by the use of the titular vehicle as a surfers’ car.
Typically great Mac...weaving three families and generations of mistakes into a complex tale of murder. Love his meandering style as Archer discovers the past and its ineradicable clues to the present.
Lee mi reseña en Cruce de Caminos
Very retro detective story.
