https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825377.The_Dot
"Just make a mark and see where it takes you."One of two great Peter Reynolds books on art lying around this house.
Vashti can't draw, hates it, and so at her teacher's urging, she begins with a dot, stops right there, signs it as her teacher suggests, and the teacher frames it.
Vashti is suddenly dissatisfied with her dot and so tries different approaches to this, and begins to explore dot-ness.
At dot art show, a kid comes up and says, wow, you are so good, I can't draw at all.
Vashti takes out a paper and says, "Here.
"Please... Sign It."The Dot is a self-confidence story of a little girl Veshti who is upset and angry that she cannot draw anything. Her teacher helps her out and how!Everyone who are dealing with kids who feel a bit low at any point of their lives about any field, should grab this one immediately.Highly recommended!Full stars!
This is one of those books that makes me unaccountably teary when I read it. About kids and creativity. Highly recommended.
And The Dot reminds me of a time when I was teaching first graders, and I encouraged them to paint.
Reynolds’ use of the white space to encircle the child helped set the tone of being alone, closed in, and unsure of herself.The hand lettering is close enough to a child’s writing that it fit the story.
The balance between text and picture telling the story led my eye through both to understand.In addition to the art, hand lettering, and use of white space, Reynolds’ appreciation, respect, and empathy for children and their potential is illustrated in this book.
Wonderful and inspiring little book.
But when the teacher gets our protagonist to draw a dot and then "sign it" - well, one thing leads to another and the dots become more and more elaborate.This is a great book to inspire creativity in kids who think they "can't" something.
If the beauty of art is in the eye of the beholder, then this illustrates that so long as you're enjoying creating the art, then that is what matters.Again, the illustrations in this book are simple but fantastic, and they perfectly complement the text.Personally, I enjoyed Ish more, but it could have been because I read it first.
Vashti thinks she is no good at art, but an encouraging teacher helps her to enjoy herself. The teacher's approach seemed more focused on self-esteem than actual art skills, but I guess that's more the more important thing for young kids.This was cute, and I liked the bit at the end with Vashti encouraging another child, but there are several similar books I think are better, including the same author's Ish.
Check out more Picture book reviews @ Perspective of a Writer...Vashti doesn't believe she can draw, when her art teacher urges her to just make a dot and sign her name it changes Vashti's entire view of herself and others.I wasn't sure I liked this story as I read it with my nephew.
My nephew chose Vashti's art show as his drawing and it was also my favorite spread of the book.
I enjoyed the way the illustrations were inked with color added for pop.BOTTOM LINE: Every child needs to read this book and understand they are creative too!______________________You can find this review and many others on my book blog @ Perspective of a Writer.
Aaah... aku mau jadi guru seperti ituh. Keren banget cara menyemangati muridnya. Genius. Dan suka bgt gimana Vashti akhirnya melanjutkan apa yang diajarkan gurunya.
As someone who can regularly be heard denouncing any ability to draw, stay inside the lines of coloring pages, or paint something that doesn’t result in a murky blob, Peter Reynolds’ simple fable about personal creativity and artistic acceptance has filled me with hope.Vashti believes she cannot draw, but when her teacher gently tells her to “just make a mark,” she jabs at a blank sheet of paper and signs her name.
I hope that when I become a teacher (and that day is getting closer and closer!) I always choose to say the right words at the right time, and not let my bad days and sure-to-be-overworked nerves hinder me from encouraging my students to reach their potential, achieve their personal best, and be happy.
At the end of class, Vashti is still sitting in her desk with a blank sheet of paper and no idea what to draw.
Her teacher tells her to just make a mark and see where it takes her.
So she takes a breath and makes a single dot in the center of her paper.
At the end, a little boy approaches her with a blank sheet of paper.
Vashti tells him to just make a mark and see where it takes him.
The book ends with Vashti saying, "sign it please." This book is why I love picture books.
This book is helpful in initiating creativity of a student who may need some help getting inspired. It encourages peer interaction and social skills. It is a testimony to children learning differently and being inspired in different ways. It makes me think on how important it is to build from children's current level by changing the teaching method to meet their needs.
I'm not sure I liked this one quite as much as "Ish" but that could just be because I read "Ish" first and was so refreshed by the story encouraging a child's artistic freedom and creativity. Still, I will give this one five stars for the same purpose! ;-) It's amazing how art can blossom from a dot!
It's an amazing book & I recommend it to everybody, especially those who work with children. It just gives courage to children & is sure to empower them & make them creative.. :)I enjoyed it..:)
I'm really enjoying Peter Reynold's books! This is clever, simple and whimsical.
Um livro que nos mostra perfeitamente o quão incrível é ser encorajado e acreditar nas capacidades dos outros.
I am going to head to the bookshop tomorrow and pick a copy of this sweet fable for myself. What a powerful story and I can relate to dear Vashti so much right now. I may actually make this part of my daily reading for a time. I cannot recommend this one highly enough. If we just make a dot, just a start, we can move towards our strength and our mission.
This hand-lettered book, the first in the series "Creatrilogy," is all about encouragement of artistic self-expression.
Mr. Reynolds illustrates his book using watercolors, ink, and tea.
You can find information about it @ http://www.thedotclub.org/dotday/ Follow them on Twitter @ twitter.com/DotClubConnect Visit the Dot Day Facebook page @ facebook.com/InternationalDotDay to see what others are doing and to share what you are doing on International Dot Day and everyday, for that matter!
Use the hashtags #DotDay or #Makeyourmark FableVision Learning is an educational publishing company founded by Peter Reynolds.
I had just read the book Ish, also by this author/illustrator, and then was alerted to this book, which was published first.I think that I might like Ish slightly more, but only very slightly.
The author hand lettered the text and illustrated the book with watercolor, ink, and tea.
I like modern art and I enjoyed the illustrations.
In this book, a youngster who is convinced she can’t draw is given encouragement by her teacher, and then passes on what she’s been given.I just love this author/illustrator!
Quick overview: A student, Vashti, who does not want to do her artwork because she believes she cannot draw, simply turns in a single dot for her project.
After appreciation and encouragement from her teacher about the artwork, Vashti starts experimenting with her art.
This book is great for the students and the teachers.
For teachers it reminds us that we should remain positive, have a sense of humor, give constant encouragement, and find an approach that scaffolds a path for the student.For the student this book could be used to teach science.
This book would have the students motivated to create.
From School Library Journal: -"Just make a mark and see where it takes you." This sage advice, offered by her intuitive, intelligent teacher, sets our young heroine on a journey of self-expression, artistic experimentation, and success.
Once the child takes that very first stab at art, winningly and economically dramatized by Reynolds's fluid pen-and-ink, watercolor, and tea image of Vashti swooping down upon that vacant paper in a burst of red-orange energy, there's no stopping her.
With art that seems perfectly suited to the mood and the message of the text, Reynolds inspires with a gentle and generous mantra: "Just make a mark."-Kathy Krasniewicz, Perrot Library, Greenwich, CT
I thought it was interesting that a book focusing on art has such simple illustrations.
The book starts off with a frustrated student who thinks that she is bad at art.
However, instead of telling Vashti that her work will improve, Vashti’s art teacher accepts the simple dot that she drew, asks Vashti to sign it, and then frames her artwork.
By framing Vashti’s work, the teacher shows Vashti that her work is important.
I feel that teachers should also read this book as a reminder of the influence they have on their students.
I heard about The Dot when I read Colby Sharp's blog post about celebrations that he'd have with his students around literacy, passionate reading, and books this year.
Thanks Colby for highlighting International Dot Day and the celebration of creativity and "making one's mark."My students and spent the week reading the three books in this series (the third is Sky Color) along with other books about people who've made their mark.
(We also read Wangari's Trees of Peace and Martin's Big Words among others.) On Tuesday we read Reynold's blog post about The Dot going to the International Space Station with Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield and we watched his YouTube video about surface tension and water in a zero gravity environment.
Reynolds, is the inspiring story of Vashti, a young girl with no confidence in her ability to draw.When her teacher encourages her to just 'make a mark and see where it takes you,' Vashti responds by stubbornly jabbing her pen into a piece of paper.
The teacher doesn't miss a beat, by calmly asking her to sign under her 'dot', and the next time Vashti sees the paper, it has been put in a gilded frame.
The story was interesting, showing how training and experiment can lead to interesting results in art (and other things, but this book focused on art). I also liked the end, it was a positive one. On the minus side, the schoolish background was a problem for me because it gave the feeling Vashti was the center of the world (I suppose they rented a full city to expose the artworks of all the pupils in a same amount as Vashti's paints...).
I ❤ Peter Reynolds. His books have so many applications for older readers. As we begin to write our literary analysis essays on our inquiry unit novels I feel students need a gentle push to get started. This is the perfect picture book to get students thinking positively that they can accomplish more difficult tasks if they keep working at it.
I ❤️ Peter Reynolds. His books have so many applications for older readers. As we begin to write our literary analysis essays on our inquiry unit novels I feel students need a gentle push to get started. This is the perfect picture book to get students thinking positively that they can accomplish more difficult tasks if they keep working at it.
Finding one's own creativity is such an individual thing, and is often not supported by our results-driven society. Bravo to the encouraging art teacher in this picture book. And I really love how Vashti passes on the torch of possibility that was given to her.
Gasp! What an oversight to not have this in my Goodreads and with the other "young artists" books!
A story that takes place between "SURE U CAN!" & "please sign"AMAZING!! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t5mGeR...Thanx Mrs.Reem
This piece of literature is perfect for a middle school classroom not only because of how simple it is to comprehend, but also because it's a great source of motivation.
Far too often I found middle school students unwilling to speak up in class or try something new due to the fear of not being good enough.
In terms of perspective, this text can show students the subjectivity of their work.
I like this idea because of how it makes students think creatively after fully comprehending the messages in the text.
