https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1088704.Sleeping_with_the_Enemy
4  stars. Worthwhile read about a woman escaping a physically abusive husband. Fulfilling feeling at the end.I saw the movie years ago. The book is better. One part of the movie annoyed me - stupid frustrating act of the mother. In the movie Martin visits the mother in a nursing home pretending to be a cop. He tells her that he needs to contact Sara to warn her about something with Martin. The mother stupidly tells him where Sara is. The book is different and better on this part. Sara does smart
But Martin also does smart things to find her.This book does not have much suspense until the end.
If you want suspense and terror, read Stephen King’s Rose Madder which I loved.I did not like what happened with Martin at the end.
Was there a reason she avoided them?I liked that Sara initially loved Martin, but after they married he changed.
“Or are you just watching the characters do this or that, but when you’re through the world hasn’t changed at all for you?”Me, I’m like Mrs. Eaker, I want happy endings.
For the first time in my life I have to say 'the film is better than the book.' I was really looking forward to a real psychological thriller like Sliver or Single White Female, but I was very disappointed.
The characters are all a bit cringe-worthy, and I was surprised that a book written by a woman made so many allusions to the heroine's 'round breasts'.
The writing is good in parts, especially when dealing with the issues at the heart of the book, but the ending is a bit dragged-out and unclear.
Bit of a letdown all round.
To everyone else Laura Burney has a perfect life except that her charming husband Martin is a cruel abuser.
He purposely takes her on boating outings knowing that she is afraid of the water.
She decides to take swimming lessons in order to fake her death the next time Martin takes her out in the boat in a storm.
Ultimately her husband tracks her down and Laura has to defend herself or be killed by him.
The story has a lot of detail and is believable even though it is fiction.
I would like to be able to write clever fiction.
Although initially excited to read this, I started to feel quite let down the more I read. The writing wasn't especially groundbreaking, and much of the book was filler in my opinion, it could've been a lot shorter. I think the story itself is great, but on this occasion I would have to say that the film is far superior. I was simply relieved when I turned the last page.
One of those rare ocassions where the movie was better than the book.
The writing was so choppy and juvenile.
And what grown man thinks in terms of "trying to score" and "doing it?" So juvenile and embarassing.
He also kept thinking how if he had a wife he wouldn't be saddled with mundane chores of every day life and he could write his book, yes what a wonderful catch he would be.And why were both men so angry all the time?
So unlikeable and angry and mean and they both absolutely hated women.
This book is on my shelf and will stay there.The really creepy thing to me, though, is that the man she ends up with - the good guy - the guy who is not her husband and is supposedly not out to beat the living crap out of her whenever he feels like it is still physcially abusive to her.
Well that definitely shows that there's a cycle going on here - she leaves one jerk and takes up with another...." and yet the author never seems to catch on that a man who physically abuses a woman is not a good guy.
The first time I read this book, I was horrified at the story, while being enchanted with the beauty of the storytelling. This time a single exchange stood out:"You want respect," the young man said. "Your own job, your own house, your own money.""Yes.""That's what I want first." Larry put one ankle on his knee, lifted his bearded chin, and fixed blue eyes on Ben under heavy black brows. "Respect. Not the kind we 'give' women. I want the kind men get."
This book is just great! It's about a woman's stuggle to get free of her abusive husband! It's shows how much strength a person can have! This book is amazing!
Having seen the film a long time ago, I knew about this novel going in.
I really enjoyed how Nancy Price switched from one character's perspective to another's with such ease and very little (if any) confusion.
In a time before cell phones and the internet it may have been easier to disappear...could you do the same today?
I also enjoyed character discussions of Henry James and other literature.
A great, suspenseful novel...makes me want to see the film again.
But the novel was better, I'm certain!
Read "Sleeping with the Enemy" by Nancy Price!
Also, she's a genius with character, and all the complex nuances of who we are-- even the "good guys" are not 100% good in this book.The author does an interesting thing with point-of-view by going into the heads of many of the characters, including ones who are very secondary characters so that we may get a thorough view of the story, the way life looks different to each of us.
By the time she helped Ben carry dishes to his kitchen, she had shifted them from the small, ordinary furnished rooms of sport talk, news talk, or weather talk.
If you know someone who always dates these kind of men, this may be the perfect book for them to read, and perhaps Price's complete understanding of the situation will help them leave before it's too late.Caution: It had plenty of swearing, sexual tension, and she comments frequently on her sex life with Martin prior to his hitting her - how it was different.
A very adult book, please be cautious in recommending it, particularly to women who may have been abused and are trying to heal.
Sleeping With the Enemy is a book?!?! Um, I watch this every single time it's on TV (Aaahhhhh, the cans are all lined up in the cabinet!) so I will clearly read this pronto. Thank you, Goodreads, for recommending this after I told you that I'm reading Beaches.
You've got the big three (Sara/Laura, Martin, Ben) and then other characters that she leaves by the way side.I really liked the Ben character in the movie and was looking forward to learning more about him in the book.
He spends the majority of the book crying about his dead wife because her death means he can no longer own her, abusing some woman who apparently exists in the book only to show what a pathetic loser he is, and obsessing over why he's such a horrible person and blaming it all on his parents.
In the movie, Ben is a kind, sympathetic man who truly cares for Sara/Laura and I really like his character.
But he's sullen, bitter, misogynistic and mean in the book, yet he's supposed to be the romantic lead and I'm supposed to be happy Sara/Laura ends up with him in the end.I suppose a woman who ends up with an abuser is like to end up with another one, though, especially when she never gets any kind of mental health help.
I don't know if the ending is happy or a cliffhanger because of that.I'm ambiguous on this one.
I have wanted to read this book ever since I saw the film with Julia Roberts, which I thought was excellent.
There are a few minor differences between book and film but the story is basically the same - a woman's struggle to escape from an abusive relationship.The writing is good, almost poetic at times and the story moves along smoothly.
However, I felt there was a touch of remoteness about it, almost as though the author was not quite engaged with the characters.
I think the film actually gives a better portrayal of the pain, the anguish and the emotions of the protagonists.
This book was pretty good! I did like the way the movie ended better as it was much more resolved. Here I finished and looked for a possible missing page. But the characters were colorful and the suspense intense. The Martin character reminded me of the Norman character from one of my favorite Stephen King books: Rose Red. Both are violent, vicious woman haters and we see them spiraling into madness, a scary journey we experience firsthand.
I read this while in high school and was braver. lol! It's definitely a thriller, so scary in parts, but riveting. It's about a woman who is married to a very controlling and dangerous man. Over time, she decides she wants to leave him, so she plans out this very crazy plan to fake her death. There's a movie out about this as well starring Julia Roberts and it's every bit as scary as the book.
Forget the movie. The book is genius. I read it every few years. For the story, the writing... And for the food. Really. The food is awesome. Read more about that here:http://suannelaqueurwrites.com/litera...
In fact, if you want a clear understanding of women and awoman's view of men: read this book.If you look at other reviews you'll see a lot of shocked people to see abook so different than the movie.
Sara ismarried to Martin, an abusive man who will kill her if she tries to leave.She fakes her death pretending to drown then running away to rural Iowawhere she meets Ben. As she tries to put her life back together, Martinhunts her down.However the book is so much more than that.
Though this book waswritten before the term friend-zone was term, that is basically whathappened to him.Ben didn't want friendship but was willing to hang on in case he couldconvince the woman to get past that.
In the movie she becomes friends with a kind, caring, bright, unimposing man named Ben who lives next door and they strike up a friendship and begin to have feelings for each other.
In the book Ben is possessive, conceited, chauvinistic, and even thinks of her as a bitch and a tease who he hates.
Author Nancy Price seems to have a real distaste for men in general and I feel the novel left off with the main character safe from her old abuses but now in another tricky, and possibly even criminal, situation in which she will continue to live as a new person and maybe never safe from law enforcement discovering the web of lies and potential involvement.
Is the book better than the movie?
This popular movie about domestic violence with Julia Roberts definitely brings the essence of this book to the big screen and adds an additional layer of sit on the edge of/jump out of your cinema seat suspense.
Since the main character is a librarian, your will find lines of poetry, quotes, and book and author mentions too many to count.
The imagery..." Each fern frond and grass blade seemed as clear to him as a detail on a artist's canvas, placed exactly for its exact meaning." And one last thought to ponder.
The book is far better than I expected: I would rank it at least as high as the best of Mary Higgins Clark.
It is far better than the usual woman-in-jeopardy novel.
This heroine, on the contrary, is extremely smart, and she fully recognizes the problems she faces as she tries to start a new life away from her abusive and murderous husband.
If it weren't for a few tedious and repetitious chapters of the husband's obsessive ravings I would have given this five stars.
We do have the opportunity to understand both Sara and Martin - seeing their backgrounds play out first hand and listening to their thoughts.
There are other characters who are essential to the story and pushing the plot forward, but then there are others who don't seem to serve a purpose.
They do add a nice sense of reality to the story, though - it's not like our lives are filled only with people who are integral to our future.
I was ok with that most of the time, as it was quite interesting to get to know the various characters and to step through their daily lives.
I re-read this, since the author is a local celebrity and I'm helping with the current Cedar Falls Authors Festival.
I lived in the Seerley Park neighborhood for 23 years, which is the setting for most of the book.
One of the things I loved about living there, was knowing the history it had from this book and the movie by the same name.
All of us knew which house was "Ben's" house, which one was "Sara's" house and which one was the author's house.
However: won't people who knew Martin on the east coast, wonder why he killed himself in Cedar Falls, Iowa?
The author offers glimpses into the mind of both the "good" and "bad" male characters; to be honest, they didn't seem all that different to me.
Both Martin and Ben harbor disturbingly juvenile, chauvinistic, demeaning thoughts towards women; neither made for very likable protagonists...perhaps that was the author's point.
There were several underlying themes regarding gender roles and the choices that women make, often based on a domineering male in their life.
Nancy Price did a good job of describing the feelings of being trapped and desperate, as well as the counterpoint psychosis of an enraged, entitled man believing himself betrayed.
luckily, i had seen the movie when i was very young, so i only had choppy memories of it...i got to use my imagination and quickly became absorbed in this delicately creepy, suspenseful tale of domestic abuse; when the main character runs from her husband, the tension literally drips from every page, and the reader is panicking along with her...convinced the violent erratic husband is around every corner !!
even if you HAVE seen the (poorly done, and of course not doing justice to the book) movie already, the book is definitely still going to wrap its chilly arms around you, refusing to release you until the very end...
I don't know why it took me so long to read this book. The movie is one of my all time favorites and after reading the book, I enjoyed it just as well. The book and the movie are very different but both still work. Enjoyed that it is all set in my home town and it is fun to try to recognize places in Cedar Falls and on the UNI campus. Well worth the read. Now I will go look up the houses on Tremont Street!
I actually read this book when I was a freshman in high school. I had seen the movie (on tv) and LOVED it, so I decided to pick up the book. I loved the book as well, although the ending is different. I preferred the movie ending if you can believe it, even though the rest of the book was pretty amazing. Just about what you'd expect...intense, emotional, suspenseful, and it kept me on the edge of my seat.
Claustrophobic. Stark. Painful. A trying read, especially now, as we struggle to shed patriarchy, decades after this book was published. It captures perfectly the crippling terror of a domestic abuse victim, a woman who doesn't even ask for help as she's sure she'll get none. And it dives into the abuser's psyche, his view of women as objects to possess, to do as he pleases. The fear of simply being a woman is on every page, magnified. All men, read this.
I read this about a year before the movie came out and loved it. In fact when I read it I didn't know a movie was in the works. The concept of faking your death and reinventing yourself was interesting to me. I thought it was clever that the author had the main protagonist do the things she did in preparation. The idea that someone could be so desperate to go to such lengths was scary itself. As much as I loved the book, I actually think I enjoyed the movie just a tad more.
