https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88269.Get_in_the_Van
No, the reason why it is such a hard read is that Henry's depression, self loathing and general hatred to the world is SO palpable that you can feel it wafting off the pages.
It's even harder to read that even despite that, being in the van and on the road and miserable is the only time that Henry ever really feels whole.
Too add insult to injury, it's also hard to read the inner thoughts of a musician that you love who is so addled with loathing, depression, and violence.
His thoughts are blunt and pretty flipping horrid at times.
I've wanted to read Get In The Van since it was published sixteen years ago.
A weird rewind.Rollins' recollections of his time in the Flag are absolutely enthralling.
Having read this and Azerrad's Our Band Could Be Your Life, I find myself wanting very much to read a proper bio of Black Flag.
Get In The Van is Rollins-centric and there is almost no reflection of what anyone else was thinking.
I'm pretty fascinated by Ginn and Dukowski and there were a bunch of characters involved with Black Flag over the years.
That would be a killer book!The photos in Get In The Van are great.
Black Flag was the first of the hardcore bands to really embrace heavy metal and see the possibilities of taking one extreme form of music and melding it with another.
It’s basically the tour diaries of Black Flag’s lead singer, Henry Rollins, during his tenure in the band.
So there.10-06-18 Lockhart TX: “Get In The Van” is not a history of Black Flag.
I’ll say it like this…..if you don’t at least APPRECIATE what Black Flag was doing back in the day, then you have no business calling yourself a fan of punk rock music.
Best story: Rollins writes about how he and another guy in his band (might have been Greg Ginn) are out on the road in some godforsaken place, have no money and are starving and want to go to this Wendy's type establishment to eat.
There's a salad bar there where the price is three dollars for all you can eat.
They look up- glaring at the guy with big wads of salad dressing stuck to the ends of their mouths.
Rollins remarks something like 'when you haven't eaten in three days you get this kind of look in your eye....people leave you alone.'Priceless!
I can't really take too much of Henry's self-mythologizing, but this book chronicles the work that he'll be known for forever: fronting Black Flag. Working on Greg Ginn's farm wasn't easy and Henry's story is funny, bracing, and paints a staggering picture of young men overcoming unbelievable obstacles to push their rock band out into a very hostile world. A must read for fans of 1980s American rock.
Henry Rollins used to be Greg Ginn's prize white slave.
The book is what it is, though: had I kept a journal in my 20s it would have read a lot like this book (save that I was never a successful musician on tour).
We all go through teens/twenties angst and we all mellow with age.What's extraordinary about this book is how it captures how little "success" meant, and how it makes the obvious point of how special Black Flag really was in the 1980s.
It's like being able to see the core of a star: Black Flag was the unreachable white-hot epicenter of the self-immolating scene that was punk rock.
People who make good music in today's "post-cool" era know what's up.
Black Flag tour diaries.The first and last are solid, sometimes more than solid, but the second is bad/embarrassing to the point where I skimmed most of them.
I can't give an unquivocal three stars to a book with significant (although small, maybe 10%) sections I couldn't stomach.
Well, Rollins was one of those, I guess, but Get in the Van is the book through which he purges himself of these juvenilia.
His later work is better, sure, but Get in the Van's invaluable account of the Black Flag years is still worthwhile, especially if you skim the bad parts.

There's a moment early in "Get in the Van" where Henry Rollins recalls listening to Black Flag as a fan and both loving and hating the music.
That led me to the early moments of American hardcore punk, bands like Minor Threat and, of course, Black Flag.
Yet, like I said, I was hit by sadness midway through "Get in the Van." Because going through the (mis)adventures of Rollins and Black Flag - constant poverty, broken-down vans, sleeping on floors, infighting, dustups with skinheads - I could only think "Christ, that sounds miserable." But Rollins isn't writing about misery.
As a misanthrope and a solipsist, young Henry Rollins is the midpoint between Gene Simmons and Arthur Schopenhauer (with whom he bears more than a passing resemblance).
Not sure about his music tastes during this era either-- Diamanda Galas, Jerry Garcia, Nick Cave...
You get less a music memoir than a Spartan punker griping and philosophizing as fast as his empty stomach and the coffee grinds between his teeth will allow.
Typical of austere solipsists: Henry omits LOTS of groovy band details and trivia.
boon died after Henry mentions this funeral that he skipped.
"Damaged" is a good album and all, but I wasn't impressed. I even listened to Black Flag semi-regularly at the time. Henry Rollins is just another angry middle class white kid who was in the right place at the right time to get sort-of famous. That was my opinion going into the book, and I didn't read anything to change that opinion.
Henry Rollins is kind of an asshole. I'm not sure why I would be surprised that when he was in his early 20s he was an entitled self-centered and pompous asshole. Couldn't finish it, spent too much time rolling my eyes and convincing myself that Rollins has grown up by now.
I am a huge fan of Black Flag and, prior to reading this book, have seen many of his spoken word shows on the internet.
The book itself is a journal Rollins kept during his time in Black Flag.
The book revolves around the six or seven years Rollins was the singer of Black Flag.
I was really able to connect with the thing Rollins said, whether it was in books, song lyrics, or spoken word, I very quickly realized how intelligent this man really is.
Henry Rollins managed to say everything I was feeling.
Not sure why I'd never read this cover-to-cover before, I've certainly dipped into friends' copies numerous times over the years.
So I finally sat down to read this diary of his time in Black Flag from cover to cover.It's...
More than anything, the diary entries read like those of a prisoner or addict.
But that also sounds utterly awful -- being spit on, punched, groped -- it's like a hardcore version of Fight Club.
I suppose the book is worth checking out if you've got an interest in Black Flag or Rollins, but be forewarned, it is a depressing couple of years.
I think Henry Rollins is a fascinating guy and I had high expectations before reading.
The older one, as I've seen in recent footage, is more at ease with himself and others and is definitely wiser.
I didn't like the repetition of feelings, thoughts and ideas throughout the book, but I guess that's what it's like being on the road with a punk band: not sleeping, not eating, long drives, violent audiences, mean cops.
Personally, I wanted to read more about the band and the misadventures and less about Rollins' antagonism and introspection.
I'd recommend it only to Rollins and Black Flag fans in particular and Punk fans in general.
Black Flag's "Who's Got the 10 1/2" was the fourth punk record I ever bought and made me a fan for life.
This book is Henry Rollins' journals while he was the fourth and last singer of the great Black Flag from 1981-1986, and documents his perspective, thoughts, feelings, and adventures with the band.
This book is the perfect companion piece to the Black Flag discography, and once you read it you'll realize why this band is one of the most revered, hated, misunderstood, and influential bands of both punk and rock history.
There is a reason most of us do not publish the diaries we keep when we are teenies, and that reason is paragraph after paragraph about how the world is cold, no one understands me, maybe I'll cut myself for a while, everything is terrible, I hate the whole world and they hate me back, my girlfriend just broke up with me long-distance and I will be ALONE FOREVER.
I spent a lot of this laughing and thinking to myself, CRY MOAR, HENRY ROLLINS.That said!
I enjoyed the hell out of it!
This is the only thing of Henry Rollins's I've ever read, and it was pretty righteous.
But when he gets into a funk, that may last for months, the book drags along with it.
My only word of caution in reading this book, is the following: IT WILL REALLY MAKE YOU WANT TO PUNCH THINGS.
DO NOT, I repeat, DO NOT PUNCH THINGS.
Henry Rollins is a very angry man.
Also remember that he did/does not drink alcohol.
If you drink alcohol, abstain whilst reading this book, or head my warnings doubly so.
If you like Rollins, even just a little, you owe yourself to read that book.
I have a paragraph from page 120 tattooed on my right forearm.The initial inception must be pure.
All energy must be put to use.
The end must never leave your sight.
You must maintain drive that goes beyond obsession, beyond purpose, beyond reason.
Every movement must be in the forward direction.
When in the woods, seek the clearing.
The path shines so bright it's almost blinding.It's a great recollection of punk rock memories and a D.I.Y survival guide for young intellectuals.
It's proudly taking its place on my shelves.
I've seen Rollins Band and two Henry Rollins Spoken Word shows live.
His voice and story telling carry a lot of the character and experience from the events depicted in the book.
It is taken from his journals during those years of touring with Black Flag.
There is a rhythm to the audiobook as tours grind on and turn him inward to reflect on his attitudes and begin to break him down into just touching base with the journal as he approaches burnout at the end of a grinding tour with little stable sleep and food.
I enjoyed the Grammy winning audiobook version of this title read by Henry Rollins.
Henry Rollins is one of my personal heroes.
I would love nothing more than to sit for hours with him and talk about everything.
I made it a personal goal to read all of his books.
This book was on my to-read list for years.While Henry has evolved into an erudite, articulate voice, he was not always.
At the writing of "Get in the Van", he was in his early twenties and had barely made it out of high school.
He was angry, disaffected and disconnected.
Much of this book is a portrait of a really angry person.
Young Henry, in fact, is just not very pleasant at all.
If you want a really honest, detailed account of what it was like to front a punk band in the 1980s, then check out Henry Rollins Get in the Van, a collection of journal entries from his time as Black Flag's front man.
The book addresses the excitement of fronting a band, but also the boredom of being on the road constantly.
The entries also detail some of the most brutal fights between the LA police and the punk rockers.
Rollins' journals serve as a reminder that punk rock was not always so safe.
Like any set of journal entries, however, some of the writing is a bit self-indulgent.
Not the most enjoyable read but I suppose the tedium of touring is reflected in Henry's diary which includes the the never ending physical abuse. Military tropes. And there's a fair amount of crabbiness including complaints about Mike Watt. I was touched by how he was able to become friends with Nick Cave (and Diamanda Galas) by simply writing fan letters. I was very pleased that in the postscript, he apologies for dissing Kira. Kira!
Listened to the abridged audio version of this back in college, thought I should read the whole thing. This updated version from 2004 has a bunch of old photos and fliers. Five years of journal entries documenting touring as the singer of a punk band called Black Flag in the early-to-mid 1980's, and the hell and heaven it was through Rollins's eyes.
as much as i wish ginn had kept a tour diary to provide a counterpoint to some of rollins' more emo rantings toward the middle of this, this is easily the most punk rock diary in existence. black flag would eat any skinny band dude in girl jeans and flat ironed hair for fucking breakfast and still jam "my war" as hard as they possibly could without even skipping a beat.
As an angry teenager I developed quite a Black Flag problem and Henry Rollins remains on my allowed list, mainly because he makes me laugh like a drain and seems like a genuine, if genuinely grumpy, person. My personal favourite anecdote in this book is the one about him and Nick Cave stealing cheese...yeah. It's a good read if you're interested in that particular little bit of music history.
Have wanted to read this forever. Got it for xmas. Second greatest gift ever, after NOFX tickets. Only Henry Rollins showed up for this one. God he is one angry, pissed off, dick of an asshole. Not many people he doesn't seem to hate. But, holy shit I love to read what he has to write.
I liked Rollins' diary of hardcore punk life. It spoke to me years after I had discovered his ugly, angry music, the perfect soundtrack for my mid-teen years. Rollins is a fine writer. His don't give a shit lifestyle at that time is bittersweet.
Earnest, colloquial, awesome. Charts a wide-eyed boy's descent into profound misanthropy, like a nonfiction punk rock Catcher in the Rye (only better--I don't like Catcher in the Rye). Knowing Rollins overcame the state we leave him in here makes this book even better. Absolutely glorious.
