https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/468645.They_Were_Found_Wanting
The trilogy is composed of: They Were CountedThey Were Found WantingThey Were Divided.These titles are taken from the Book of Daniel, from the Belshazzar’s Feast, when a hand appeared and wrote on the wall:God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end; you have been weighed on the scales and found wanting; your kingdom is divided and given to your enemies.This is how Rembrandt saw this episode:What Banffy sees in this Writing is the Advent of WWI and the end of Hungary’s Dreams.I would like to read a good biography of Miklos Banffy.
It is not an identical situation, because the books are not separate entities, but the second volume of Miklos Banffy’s Transylvanian Trilogy could be described as a sophomore slump, in that it contains many of the same elements that I enjoyed in They Were Counted, but is less original, less startling, less interesting and ultimately less satisfying.In fairness, They Were Found Wanting starts brilliantly, with an extended serenade scene involving a number of familiar characters.
Carries on from the first book, with the ongoing love saga between Balint and Adrienne, Laszlo still burnt from his previous failures and so unable to move on and Hungary about to be shafted (again) by Austria and WWI beckoning. This did not make as much impact on me as Book I probably because it was more of the same.
On one hand the people's increased self-centeredness is making them indifferent to the national and international turmoil and as a result they are unable to effectively do anything to stop the move towards war.
In the end, however, it is all selfishness and doesn't bring happiness or stability.Quotes: 1) "[it] seemed to him only to emphasize that the political unawareness of all those in Hungary whose self-indulgence, preoccupation only with such internal issues as affected themselves, and whose self-centered conviction that only such trivial matters were of the smallest significance, was leading his country to isolation and ruin."2) "It did not matter who or what it was but there was always something for whose sake one must accept the sorrow and bear it with fortitude, for that someone or something had no other person to whom to turn.
More politics which also means more bathos and hideous hindsight. A truly brilliant look at a vanished era before WWI.
The second book of this trilogy is even better than the first one. Not only is there more emotional depth, but the political setting and background (arms race, Bosnian crisis...) is broader, more international and thus more interesting.
The second book in the Transylvanian Trilogy opens with hard-boiled political intrigue.
And there the story starts to shine for me, and doesn't stop until the I close the very last page.
When I start to wax lyrical like this, it's a good sign that this series is doing my head in.
And because of that, I almost don't want to reach the end...Content-wise, the second book is not quite as thrilling or dramatic as the first, but I give it five stars nonetheless.
"Beneath their feet the dust of the forest floor rose as they walked, and to Adrienne it was as if they floated weightless over clouds of heavenly vapour, returning unharmed from the gates of Hell, ready no to defy the whole wide world." (p 76)This second volume of The Transylvanian Trilogy is an historical novel with romance at its core.
As Patrick Leigh Fermor, the famous travel writer, said: "Banffy is a born story-teller." But the story is merely the starting point for Banffy's extended romance of family, class and political relationships which mirrors the on-going upheaval in Hungarian society as it existed before the Great War. Banffy's novel compares favorably with epics like War and Peace and great family tales like The Forsyte Saga.
The storm clouds of war start to gather above Europe in the second part of Miklos Banffy's Transylvanian Trilogy, set in the sunset years of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in the years before WWI.
His colleagues in the Hungarian Parliament remain oblivious to the threat, becoming ever more obsessed with party political point-scoring and the minutiae of Hungary's relationship with Austria.
Having bankrupted himself through his gambling addiction, he turns to the bottle for solace.This second part to the trilogy continues the high standards set in the first novel, although some of the chapters featuring the political machinations within the Hungarian Parliament were a bit of a struggle.
Wonderful novel - second after They Were Counted - Balint and Adrienne finally decide to go public and despite that Adrienne's husband was considered crazy and dangerous, ask for a divorce; things happen though Laszlo also continues his 'fall" away from aristocracy and the world still knocks on the door on the blindly going towards oblivion aristocracy A superb middle novel that one cannot put down
In Miklós Bánffy’s Hungary, there are answers but none is asking the right questions.
His is a searing indictment of what caused the fall of his homeland and the decline of his people, but written by a loving hand so that it becomes a layered story of beloved days of his youth.I wanted to give this review coherency because that’s what these books have given me.
But the questions that he answers are the questions of a man of his milieu, bonded by his class and his high standing.
This is the final volume of the Transylvanian Trilogy and by this point I was completely caught up in the world of the characters as the threat of war looms ever closer.
Although I knew that the First World War would break out in 1914, I still found myself hoping against hope that it wouldn't and that the protagonist, Balint Abady, would find happiness at last!
It gives a whole new perspective - that of Eastern Europe/the Austro-Hungarian Empire - for someone who has learnt about the war from an English point of view, and also highlighted the conflicted territory of Transylvania, where the nobles were Hungarian and the peasants Romanian (and other minorities).
The second novel of this trilogy is just as an enjoyable read as the first part. Banffy is a brilliant narrator and the story not only brings you a wonderful tale of life in Hungary at the beginning of last century but also a clear insight in the demise of the Austrian-Hungarian empire and the European troubles that lead to the first world war.
This is just so beautiful. Volume II of Banffy's Transylvanian trilogy. Steeped in tragedy and beauty even more so than Volume I. The descriptions of nature and of Balint's joyful encounters with it are stunning.
I think the second volume is superior to the first: just as evocative, but more tightly written. It certainly took me less time to read.
Encore Excellent!
Escrito de una manera que recuerda a Zweig (sin llegar a la calidad de éste), nos introducimos en la sociedad transilvana de principios del siglo XX.
Las largas fiestas de la incansable aristocracia húngara, las penurias de los trabajadores rumanos que también sufren abusos de “sus propias gentes”, los debates políticos que discurrieron, la marcha como sonámbulos de una sociedad hacia su propia autodestrucción.A mí parecer hay tres fallos en la novela: largas e “inútiles” descripciones, no hay un buen manejo del tiempo en la obra (una noche dura 100 páginas y 4 meses unas líneas), la trama de los dos primos es bastante floja, especialmente en lo relacionado a sus vidas amorosas.
4,5
Para bien y para mal esto es una continuación, que por supuesto proporciona mucho placer leer, pero ya no es como la primera vez.Los protagonistas siguen siendo dos primos: un idealista enamorado de una mujer casada y un noble arruinado que en el pasado había sido un prometedor músico pero que ahora se ha lanzado en una caída libre hacia la autodestrucción.
Pero el primo idealista, que tiene su escaño de diputado, también acaba decepcionado, porque ve que todos sus intentos de introducir mejoras para el pueblo acaban en nada.Algo de lo que más me ha gustado (y por segunda vez) de Miklós Bánffy es la colección de secundarios que nos presenta.
Book two of Banffy's Transylvanian trilogy continues the page turning 19-th C story of pre-WWI life of Count Balint and his loves and losses.
The character studies work much like those in fellow Hungarian Bela Tarr's Outsiders: desultory oddities who you can't stop watching because they will certainly reward the attention of the discerning and patient.
There is humor, wisdom, a touching reverence of nature and life itself that is displayed with a clear and intelligent prose that should make this work better known.
What I like about it:Since probably some time in the eighteenth century, most books about aristocrats are not written by them and so are not accurate to their concerns and experiences.
As well, the author was a government minister and presumably has a good idea about how politics is done and the descriptions are fascinating.As somebody whose ideas about Transylvania were shaped by Bram Stoker, I've enjoyed reading an account of the place in which the countryside is beautiful, full of light and colour and the people are (no more than usually) sinister.
What I don't like: it can be repetitive and slow.
Banffy sets up a somewhat ridiculous hunting scene comprised of ten to twenty men on horseback, packs of dogs, guns, antiquated English hunting kit and vocabulary, all to chase down and kill a single rabbit.
They chase the rabbit for 14 kilometers until it "made a great leap in the air and fell dead in front of them without being touched by the hounds(p 321)."This chapter reads well simply as a narrative, perhaps highlighting the excesses of Hungary's aristocrats.
But I think Banffy intends his hunt narrative to analogize the way the world's over-militarized powers pounced on Serbia, Croatia, and Slovakia, and in doing so caused a big fuss and war over a little defenseless countries.
This book is the first in the Trilogy Banffy wrote about his native Transylvania, the 'land across the forest' so different from the Dracula legends.
It is a profound and wonderful work that follows the character of Balint as he reckons with the changes in city (Budapest) and countryside in Hungary and Transylvania at the turn of the last century.
It has much in common with Proust's Remembrances, with Musil's Man Without Qualities and with Tolstoy's writings about the peasants of Russia.
Four and a half more stars.
TWFW maintains the quality of They Were Counted.
This volume continues the chronicle of the two major protagonists, with major emphasis on their love lives.
Again, Banffy offers an unparalleled glimpse into the daily life of Hungary in the early 1900s, particularly among the faded aristocratic families who mindlessly live out their traditional lives, ignoring or unaware of the changes taking place in Europe.
Despite Banffy's merciless depiction of this society, his love of his country and pride in the values of its old lions brighten the novel.

A forgotten classic, very much in the Tolstoy/Dostoevesky tradition, only set in Translyvania and Hungary before the outbreak of World War I. The reader's awareness of the looming calamity which will befall every character shadows every line, but there is also a lot of poetry and insight even without the geopolitical context. Banffy's evocations of village life and the Hungarian wilderness are particularly powerful -- along with his skewerings of both high society and the depredations of politics.
No hay apenas avance con respecto a la primera parte. Bálint y Adrienne no pueden casarse porque Uzdy cae enfermo de locura y Adrienne no puede divorciarse de él; tiene que cuidarlo. Bálint se deprime y Adrienne le aconseja que se case con Lili Illésváry para que le de un hijo heredero. La madre de Bálint, que le había expulsado de sus tierras y casi desheredado, vuelve para hacer las paces con él.
This continues the saga and as it progresses the work grows more serious with each passing chapter drawing your more and more into the political turmoil of the times without ruining the good natured gossipy love story of the time with duels and intrigue, crawling through windows and swooning women, it's an awesome balance and he's toying with us because we are already knowthat world war I will destroy these people's worldvery excited
To live in Banffy's meticulously reconstructed vision of Mitteleuropa on the eve of the Great War is to discover a past disturbingly like our present, with the wealthy given up to their own glamorous dissipation, and the people fatally divided by petty enmities; despite its melodramatic passages, this is a vivid and precise evocation of a world poised on the brink of its own destruction.
The second part of the Transylvanian trilogy by Miklós Bánffy. The continuing story of the lives of the two Transylvanian cousins from They Were Counted, this novel parallels the lives of the counts Bálint Abády and László Gyeröffy to the political fate of their country. Packed full of the same detail and colour as the previous volume. I cannot wait to start the final volume.
