https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9761771-pure
All of this is going to be hard for Alex, A.Because she just can't stay out of trouble and B.Some people want her DEAD.
I love EVERYTHING about her, if I could choose to be any character it would be Rose from VA first and then Alex Andros next(lol).
Come on Aiden spice it up with Alex alil more Please?Master Plan/Story: Was AWESOME!!
I loved it and need more!What Next?: What I want to see next is Alex, finally let go of Aiden OR some more hot scenes with Seth because I can't get enough of that!Cover Love?: I LOVE these covers!
Re-reading 30/9/13:The battle over Alex was just as hot funny as I recalled!! Seth and Aiden are both adorable, and the witty banter is definitely a highlight of this wonderful series.Original Review“You know what?” His breath was warm against my cheek. “There are a lot of stupid things to do, but I really want to do the stupidest thing possible.”“What’s that?”“I want to kiss you.” Seth: Aiden: The oracle in summary: Everytime Alexandria kicked ass: Brilliant book and I can't wait to read the ne
Re-reading 30/9/13:The battle over Alex was just as hot funny as I recalled!! Seth and Aiden are both adorable, and the witty banter is definitely a highlight of this wonderful series.Original Review“You know what?” His breath was warm against my cheek. “There are a lot of stupid things to do, but I really want to do the stupidest thing possible.”“What’s that?”“I want to kiss you.” Seth:
  Aiden:
  The oracle in summary:
  Everytime Alexandria kicked ass:
  Brilliant book and I can't wait to read the next one in the series!!
It's always good to be back to this world *sighs happily* Sometimes I forget how much I care about these characters until the feels hit me like a truck.{Review to come}
I don't know if I'll be recommending the books from this point forward.If you are considering reading Covenant but have not read the Vampire Academy series by Richelle Mead, do the right thing and pick up Mead's books first, so you can see who created this world.If you're interested in this author but are unsure if you should read Covenant, try checking out her Lux series instead.
There are a few similarities with the Lux world and another book series but the details are so minor and in the background that it didn't really bother me.
I  really really wanted to read this book without constantly having the sinking feeling that I’ve already read it before, except written by a different author and with a different name (Vampire Academy).
(Again, classic YA paranormal sophomore novel).Caleb/ Mason (Alexrose’s best male friend) dies and Alexrose is left emotionally scarred (Book 2 of vampire academy, anyone?
(Again, Vampire Academy all over again) Meanwhile, the supernatural bond between Alexrose and Sethalisa (Seth + Lisa) is growing and they’re starting to be able to sense each other’s thoughts and feelings.
If you miss Vampire Academy, and you don’t mind head-banging similarities, would I recommend this book?
4.5 stars I enjoyed this one SO much more than the first! Full review up tomorrow
-Felt the need to want to rip someones heart out and/or bang my head against a wall (depending on the scene).-Cried frustrated tears of pure agony or annoyance.
For example; I hate all this tension and meanest that Aiden is giving off, but that whole Hector/Kelia scene really put things in a different perspective and it's like something clicked into place.
You just gotta love this girls spirit and spunk, it's the very best thing about her and I think we're only seeing the beginning of greatness.Aiden in this book, well, pissed me the hell off actually.
I DO LOVE HIM VERY MUCH.I know he's a bad guy sometimes, but in this installment he's also sweet and funny and...
I was waiting for that scene since the beginning of the book ahhhh *sighs*On the contrary, while reading, I spent a lot of time wanting to punch Aiden in his gut.
And can you stop saying "I don't want to talk about this with you Alex, not now not ever" or "be careful, Alex" or "shut up, Alex" or "Alex you're settling with Seth"?But in the end, I can't.
I love him anyway <3Alex is so badass I want to marry her.
The daimons.The entire book and the ending (Aidennnn cutieee) left me wanting a lot more.
This time around we see Alex training with both Aiden and Seth.
His love for Alex really shows in this book and even though he does do things that make you really angry with him, you really can’t stay made at him for long because he’s doing what he thinks is best….even if that means pushing away the one person he loves more than anything.
He’s such an admiral character and you really see the levels he will go to protect Alex and it makes me love him even more.
Pure is book two in the Covenant series by Jennifer Armentrout. I love writing my review right after I finish reading a book when my emotions are all still swirling. And right now, let me tell you, my emotions are all over the place.  Alex has been allowed to stay at the Covenant and start the new semester and continue her training. Not only is she attending classes, she is doing extra training with both Aiden and Seth. She is exhausted. But she wouldn’t give up her time with Aiden for anything
Alex has been allowed to stay at the Covenant and start the new semester and continue her training.
Aiden knows that Alex needs a change of scenery so he takes her for a “mental health day.” It was during this time with him that Alex realized the depth of her feelings.
I do want to say that at times Aiden infuriated me the way he seemed to keep Alex hanging.
Can Alex finally let go of the hope she holds for Aiden and give Seth a chance?
Wieder super spannend, actionreich und toll geschrieben! Ein echter Pageturner!
Jennifer is amazing and this ability of hers to mix romance with action and a dynamic plot is killing me!!“Pure” is the second book from the Covenant series and although it was not as good as the first one, it had its moments of greatness that were fantastic and breath-taking, not to mention that I love Alex and Aiden as a couple :) Alex is dealing with her “second Apollyon” status and this implies having Seth all around her kind like 24/7.
Seth and I started the fire, and then we danced around it.' This has got to be one of the best sequels to a book I've ever read.
Seth is like a really mischievous, and reckless friend to Alex, although I have a feeling sooner or later he is gonna turn into a power hungry Apollyon..
Lastly, Alex is going to be one powerful Apollyon when she awakens on her 18th birthday, probably more so than Seth, which would be awesome!
She is supposed to be an amazing fighter, killing three daimons on her own, yet she can barely hold her own in class.Romvi was an embarrassment to the male race, but he didn’t hear me bitching.Calling your instructor names after he beat your ill-prepared ass to the mat.
With all the stupid shit Alex pulls, having the Headmaster as an uncle and the Minister as a stepfather has gotten her out of trouble countless times.When the school seems to be infiltrated by daimons, Alex rebels against the restrictions placed on her and the other half-bloods, even while knowing that the Pures themselves are placed under similar rules.
I think, the whole book just made me forget how to breathe.It's just  perfect , okay? IT SIMPLY HAD EVERYTHING IN IT.  Pure  managed to make me laugh, cry, and feel hot all at the same time. And I am not even kidding.Alex, here, made me love here even more. She's indeed one of the coolest female fictional characters I've ever known. I just like her and I believe she deserves all the happiness in the world. No more pain, please? But yeah, we all know that it's the hardships that our characters ha
This is where the words: 'I love you' didn't matter because what they truly felt for Alex clearly showed in their actions.
I'm sooooo rooting for both of them, and whoever ends up with Alex in the end, I'd be happy for him.I feel really lucky for being given the chance to read this book and I believe you, guys, will feel lucky, too, when you finally get to read it, yourselves!If you've read the awesome, awesome Half-Blood, then 
, is one hell of a sequel that you wouldn't dare miss.EVERYBODY SIMPLY HAS TO GRAB A COPY OF PURE THE MOMENT IT GETS PUBLISHED!-----(view spoiler)[A LITTLE SPOILER: 2 SCENES TO REALLY LOOK FORWARD TO:1.
Seth's Bedroom Scene (hide spoiler)]
4 Stars!*I'M GONNA MAKE A FULL REVIEW WHEN I FINISH THIS SERIES* I actually liked this one better than the first one!
However I'm not giving this book 5 stars for several reasons: - First, the love triangle.
I strongly dislike love triangles, when a heroine finds herself in that situation, her inner-monologue becomes annoying and my eyes start hurting from rolling them so much.
Believe me, I tried, but everytime I read his moments with Alex I feel like falling asleep.
Although, I must say that in the end of the book I started liking him a little bit more, but still...
⭐4 stars⭐ "You know what, you need to stay out of my bedroom. You have your own."He smiled. "I know I do. I see it quite often. I just prefer your bed. It smells better."I made a face. "It smells better? What does your bed smell like? Regret and bad taste?"
5/5This book was very good.
It was a little similar to the Vampire Academy but I was surprised by everything that happened which is very good.
I didn't like Aiden as much but then again he is just acting a certain way for the plot.
There was an even larger amount of action in this book than in the first, especially at the end.
Alex is a pretty good character in this but I feel like at times she was acting a little weaker.
Overall this was a great book and I can't wait to read the next one.
just like potato chips, you can't just read one of these booksand so continues chandler's descent into YA paranormal romance.
and tbh armentrout does a pretty damn good job at all of it.i was especially impressed with how quickly i was able to turn my back on my original ship and really feel hard for my super cool dude bro.
she's often fighting racism and sexism and that's pretty awesome in a series that i expected to just be pure fluff.now none of that is to say that i think these books are life changing, but i really fcking enjoy them and oftentimes that's all i ask of a book.
Actual rating: 4.5 I am so  not  okay. I'm not sure what to say, think, or write right now. So excuse me while I turn into a burrito of tears and pain. - Full Review:  here   -
DNF @ 20%I think, my taste just changed over the years. I've read the first book in this series a long time ago. I can't even remember most of what happened. I did remember liking the first book, though. After reading up to 20% of the book, it seems that this series doesn't interest me anymore. The appeal it had when I read it a few years before is no longer there, unfortunately. PS: Is it just me, or is Alex in this book really annoying?
Pure is book two in the Covenant series.
The action is magnified and the tension between Aiden and Alex is like a rubber band ready to snap.
I tried to breathe, but he had stolen not just my heart, but the very air I needed."Just when Alex thinks that Aiden might be falling in love with her, he pulls away.
Seth tries to fill the vacancy of her heart and yet no one can fill this void!
Alex is swept away to the covenant in New York.
The moment our eyes met, I felt like Cinderella."So many things happen in this book.
I knew I was smelling a love triangle since the first book and boy is that a dangerous game to play, I hate when one of them ended up hurt and boy I hope it's not my baby Seth that gets burn in the end but the gods know I love Aiden too but Seth just does something to me and for once it would be nice to see that the world don't change just to fit two ppl together because that's just not how it works....
But Aiden I love u but my heart beats for Seth....
4.5⭐⭐⭐⭐Stars Damn so much happened in this book, I loved it so hard. I was so heart broken one of my favorite characters died it was awful 😭😭😭. My heart is also tearing apart though I love Aidan from book one but Seth has gotten deep inside my heart too. So conflicted, why can't "I" *cough* I mean Alex keep both?! 😂 lol I almost don't want to continue the series because I don't want it to end 😩 haha
MICHELLE'S REVIEW:5 AWESOME SERIES STARS!!I won a copy of the ebook of 'Pure' from Jennifer’s page , and I am just so happy I got to read it early.
There is some greater meaning behind this character, I can feel it...or I am really off the sniffer trail, lol!!Jennifer brings in some rather fired up new characters which are.......like I am going to tell you, spoiler free , remember.All in all, this is another page turner that will not let you put it down.
She opened her eyes. "Is this real?""Very real." I brushed the soaked strands off her cheek, wondering if I was lying or not and if I should care if I was. "Angel, let me kiss you."-Seth POV #prematureventricularcontractions“You'll become the center of someone's world one day. And he'll be the luckiest son of a bitch on this earth.” -Aiden (i know, i know. and it wont be with you! shoo!) This book for me, was the epitome of YA paranormal/romance.This was even better than the first book of the s
"Angel, let me kiss you."-Seth POV #prematureventricularcontractions“You'll become the center of someone's world one day.
With a story like this, the more pages the better.
Yes I kind of felt the deja vu sensation when reading some parts of the story.But do I give single damn?!
Fated love it is.
The plot, just complete awesomeness.Alex continued being one of the toughest heroines out there.I also had to give credits to Aiden.
But I still cant bring myself to choose him over Seth.
Choosing between a fated and forbidden love?!

A brazen copy of the Vampire Academy book by Richelle Mead.Unbelievable. I am going to keep reading this series just to see how far the writer goes with the plagiarism.Half-Blood (Covenant #1) - 1 starDeity (Covenant #3) - 2 starsElixir (Covenant #3.5) - 3 starsApollyon (Covenant #4) - 1 starSentinel (Covenant #5) - 2 stars
Quick reviewCover: Really pretty. Rating  PG–13. Thumbs Up  4.5Overall: Loved it.Characters: Great job.Plot: Was a lot that I didn’t expect.Page Turner: Yes. Series Cont.? Yes. Recommend  Yes.Book Boyfriend: Aiden!SUMMARY (50 words or less)Man, this book blew my socks off. I was so into it and hardly wanted to put it down. I can’t say that a lot of things that happened in the book made me happy, but I can say that it was exciting. YAY! Can’t wait for the next!To see my full review and pic, check out my blog post below.http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
Right before her trip to the Council, daimons attack is the Covenant and just when Alex thought she’d lost so much, this event proves how difficult the road ahead is turning out to be.There’s so much to say about this book that I surely can’t cover everything in one short review, so let me pick a few things that stood out for me.Okay, first let me start off with this whole love triangles business.
I’m not stupid to deny he’s positioned to lose this triangle battle, so I’m making my plea right now… Jennifer Armentrout, please, please, please Seth FTW!!Okay enough of that, if you can’t tell by now, I love this series.
