https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63885.The_Yage_Letters
Corruption, whine whine whine.
Third world, whine whine whine.Low points: Cultural observation skips along the path to racism.
Craptacular "routine" play thing, possibly more enjoyable if one knows about the politics of the time, possibly not.
Disgusted tone gets me down.Highlights: Good writing.
Good cultural observations.
A freakout at the end.
Wonderful, supportive, loving letter by Ginsberg to losing-it Burroughs at the end.
Burroughs was clearly an asshole, albeit a decent writer.
Ginsberg seems like he was a good friend.I don't like to give a well-written book one star.
But I got one star of enjoyment out of it.
I loved and continue to love those particular works.
I remember reading The Yage Letters for the first time (2002?) and finding it engaging, but upon my second recent reading I am struck with major concerns: 1) Burroughs' effed up characterizations of indigenous peoples; 2) Burroughs participation in what we now call "sex tourism" and the many issues of privilege and dominance that come with that practice; and 3) His disrespect of plant personhood.
but the work buckles in so many arenas that I find it hard to stomach this time around.
un libro epistolar donde un señor habla todo el tiempo sobre las iniciativas cleptomaniacas de los prostitutos que contrata,la fealdad de los muchachos que alcanza a ver desde las ventanas de los buses en los que monta, lo espantosos que son los países que visita y por ahí al final del libro menciona el yage.
Un libro que parece editado no más por explotar el beneficio economico que representa el uso del apellido de Burroughs y la palabra yage para cierto público compuesto por lectores parranderos y aspirantes a Terece Mackenna.
este libro me hace sentir piedra que los mexicanos no hayan encarcelado por un largo tiempo a Burroughs después de haber asesinado a Joan Volmer en el D.F...
As a Colombian and as person who is initiating herself in the world of ayahuasca, I find this book extremely offensive. This man comes to this land looking for nothing more than a drug that makes him hallucinate and disrespects not only what is considered a sacred plant but refers to shamans as ''brujos'', when they call themselves taitas, which is a name that has a deep meaning and respect. Burroughs came knowing nothing and left knowing nothing as well. If you read this book and know nothing about ayahuasca, please don't believe a word. This is full of shit.
Burroughs after 'Junky' and 'Cities of the Red Night'.This book is not only a first-hand account of his experiences taking the South American drug 'yage' (through the Putumayo Kofan and Vauges methods), but it also showcases Burroughs’ dry, tongue-in-cheek, ‘scientific’ humour.
As in other Burroughs books, the author puts himself through some incredibly painful and dreadful experiences BUT, in my opinion it is probably his suffering which gives his writing that distinctive razor-like edge that has become the Burroughs’ trademark.
3.5
"Meh" is pretty much all I thought about this. White junkie dude traipses through the Amazon and whines about it a whole bunch and is pretty much a jerk to everyone he meets. Whatever. (The Ginsberg part at the end was ok, though.)
What else must a white man do but learn, educate, experiment?
My personal perception on why Ayuaschsa was such a different experience for both Allen and Burroughs; It was due to Burroughs junkie nature desire to get high, to get out of his head instead of inside it.
It was an insincere desire for knowledge, but a lust for high times.
While Allen seeked the ultimate light and truth, thus he received visions of the great being.
His subconscious wishes to justify his visions.Overall the book was an insightful collection, we are lucky to have this piece of history and educational resource within our reach.
I read this book hesitantly about Burroughs's search for the perfect high in the jungles of the Amazon wondering if I could at all relate to it since, apart from a couple of all too brief experiences in the 1970s and 1980s, I've shied away from drugs almost entirely.
Basically, drugs just never appealed to me.
But, trust Burroughs, he renders the whole experience vividly here in bright colors including even the vulnerability of the ordeal in a series of letters to his friend and sometime lover Allen Ginsberg and in Ginsberg's responses to him.
I wish I could say more but you'd just have to read the book yourself.
Ecco allora intervenire questo testo, che getta qualche luce su quei nebulosi e letterariamente infruttuosi anni.Un testo (non il primo e non l'ultimo) frutto del lavoro di editor e curatori, che hanno sapientemente ricostruito una trama dalle sparse e spesso contraddittorie lettere tra Burroughs e Ginsberg, scoprendone il nesso con bozze confuse e inconcluse del primo.
Non a caso l'editore ha scelto di includere due racconti inediti di Burroughs, e che sono proprio i primi tentativi di adottare la tecnica letteraria suggerita dal pittore Brion Gysin.Da non dimenticare l'apporto di Alan Ginsberg, che oltre a comparire come interlocutore epistolare di Burroughs è presente in un paio di peometti correlati di disegni scritti sotto l'effetto degli stupefacenti.
Most of the material, however, is by Burroughs.Excepting the introduction, the texts in this collection were composed in the fifties and sixties, when relatively little was known about ayahuasca/yage and its main active ingredient DMT.
Indeed, Burrough's contributions are mostly along the lines of eccentric accounts of his travels in South America.Of the actual accounts of their drug-induced experiences, Ginsberg's comes across as most believable and impressive.
He took, it seems, the real stuff, the combination of the vine and shrub that can be ingested, and he apparently obtained some insight from the experience.
Burroughs seems to have mostly taken the harmaline-rich vine without the shrub which makes the DMT ingestible.
Full of holes, full of holes.
Are we to spend hard-earned money on book ostensibly about yage and presumably visionary experience only instead to endure dry grating of pushing pederast in search of something pure to foul and despoil?" Wanted to thank you for coming along at end, contributing weird images, whacked-out trademark Allen Ginsberg "poetry" about ayahuasca experience about experience itself not about screwing teenage boy in Ecuador.
You try to score paregoric and the croaker hits you with paracetamol instead, pockets difference.
Full of holes, full of holes.Off to cutup literary collage crap.

I got a lot out of Allen Ginsberg's contribution which was spiritual, compassionate, and thoughtful. Personally I wasn't crazy about William Burroughs' narrative since it was mostly him paying boys for sex. Not really my thing. If I were to read it again I would probably just skip to Ginsberg's section. I lent this to a person I don't think I'll ever see again so I think I'll have to buy another copy at some point.
Burroughs' search for a telepathy-inducing drug is yet-another indicator of just how serious an explorer of expanded consciousness he was. This bk even includes Ginsberg's drawings of Yage-induced visions. An important bk up there w/ Artaud's "The Peyote Dance", the works of R. Gordon Wasson on mushrooms, & many other works of the same ilk.
Bill goes to the jungle and alternately hunts Yage experiences and tricks with uncouth overexperienced native boys, one of whom steals his underpants.
Not yet quite Burroughs'... as Russians say - "neither fish, nor fowl" :)
16 cartas trocadas entre william burroughs e allen ginsberg durante as suas viagens pela américa latina
Hotel Nueva Regis, Bogotá"En cuestón de dos minutos sentí que me arrastraba una oleada de vértigo, y la choza empezó a girar alrrededor de mí.
Empecé a ver fogonazos azules delante de los ojos.
La choza adquirió un aspecto arcaico, como de los Mares del Sur, con cabezas de la isla de Pascua talladas en las columnas de madera.
El ayudante del brujao andaba polulando por ahí fuera, con la evidente intención de asesinarme.
Estaba a cuatro patas convulsionado por los espasmos de la náusea.
Oía la arcada y los gemidos como si procedietran de otra persona, en presencia del chamán.(...)10 de junio de 1960.

I just finished reading this book for a Ginsberg project I'm working on.
I read it a few years ago and again a few years before that, although I think this is the first time with the Redux version that includes some additional material and a long essay by Oliver Harris at the beginning.
Burroughs' section was written in 1953, six years prior to his interest in Dianetics.
However, this book came out in the early sixties, and Burroughs was into the cut-ups then.
He cut-up his original material to make a new section for the book.
as fun as ever. epic beat epistlery novel of first, Burroughs' trek though South America in search of Yage, an hallucinogenic tree, bark and leaf leading to different experiences, and 7 years later Allen Ginsberg following his S.A. footsteps in search of Ayahuasca, a root similar to Yage in preparation and experience. included is the early genesis of Burroughs' cut up method made famous in Naked Lunch, as well as some Ginsberg sketches and notes, and a banned satire from Burroughs that could sadly still describe the modern presidency
Burroughs' writing is stark, evocative and full. It is also trying, racist, cruel and awkward. Then I got to Ginsberg's writing in the epilogues and it was hipster word vomit that made me yearn for when I read Steppenwolf (not a compliment to either text). Just rough overall.However. The Billy Bradshinkel routine is so good that it deserves its own star. I could re-read that one singular page over and over again and always be satisfied.
En realidad no se cómo puntear esto.Me divirtió muchísimo. Burroughs es la clase de tipo que me gustaría tener de showman personal. Perfectamente cínico. No le jode banalizar (y eso me agrada).Allen Ginsberg me pareció poesía y estamos muy agradecidos por eso. Los dibujos de la edición que manejé son divinos. Digo divinos porque...Léanlo. Una horita de fiesta.
Paternalista, racista y decepcionante (la única carta que me ha gustado y que realmente hablaba de la ayahuasca fue la de Allen Ginsberg, las de Burroughs me han decepcionado e indignado a partes iguales, aunque reconozco que me encanta su sentido del humor).
Whiny, hyper-masculine horseshit. A wife killer and a NAMBLA supporter can't learn anything from Mother Aya. Hardly a Surpise.
Pharma-Nauts of the super consciousness universe--
Но как говорил Билл в биографическом фильме, он надеялся что его прозу найдет на чердаке какой-нибудь мальчишка, и поэтому все свои идеи сдабривал изрядным слоем чистого порнографизма в максимально изощренных проявлениях, в чем превзошел утомительного де Сада.Но ругать других - это пустое дело.
Сегодня - это что-то глухое, но представьте, как агенты ФБР, которые вряд ли не интересовались этими пройдохами плевались и срывались в агрессию, когда читали эти письма.
Как они переставали быть автоматическими роботами (и снова загляните к Юнгеру).К чему все это, если бы опыт можно было передать как в точной науки и пропагандистских книжонках, то к концу её вы бы блевали от отвара лозы и чувствовали тягу к прохожему соседскому мальчугану.
A bit brief.
He was that, but he was first and foremost a great comic writer, and his humor is never on display better than in these "letters." Ostensibly a book about a quest for a mythical South American drug that results in otherwise unavailable hallucinatory ecstasy, The Yage Letters is mainly about Burroughs knocking around various backwater towns trying to find someone who'll introduce him to the plant.
In short, all Burroughs' greatness is on display here, but in a minor work that is at times weighed down by the pedantry of the good-hearted, dogged Harris, who must nonetheless be thanked for giving us this window into the hilarious flounderings of a master writer of the twentieth century.
