https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210329.The_Dark_Is_Rising
Getting my brother (12) to read is liking getting a cat to take a bath, getting a high-schooler to go to school, getting a cheerleader to go to computer club.All those really difficult things in life.I read this series myself about a year or two ago, so when he needed a book to do for literature in his homeschool, I suggested that he pick this one and I'd do it with him.He moaned and groaned and hated life, that he'd have to do something so awful as reading.I just shrugged and told him to suck it up and drive on.We get started, and the first chapter goes just like I expected it to.
I love this series.A friend of mine actually suggested it to me once many, many years ago, but I never read it.
It should be noted that while technically this is book two in the series, the saga really begins here, with Over Sea, Under Stone being a prequel of sorts.Reread: 2013I first read this book when I was ten years old, and though I have held it in my heart as one of my favorite books ever, I only just reread it for the first time in decades.Susan Cooper's The Dark Is Rising features Will Stanton, last of the Old Ones (and no, we're not talking about Lovecraft Old Ones).
Yes, perhaps this series was why, many, many years later, I took to Harry Potter despite being long out of the target age range for those books.In my opinion, Susan Cooper is an enormously better writer than J.K. Rowling.
The Dark Is Rising does no wrongEach word in place so perfectly;And I have loved you oh so longCherishing your company.Young Will was my delight,Merriman my heart of goldChristmas cheer my heart of joyAll thanks, my lady Cooper.You have been ready at my handTo grant me what I often crave:A wintry chill across the landVillains dark and a child brave.Black Rider was my delight,Maggie Barnes my heart of goldChristmas menace my heart of joyAnd tragic Walker to sting the soul.Thy battles betwixt Dar
The Dark Is Rising does no wrongEach word in place so perfectly;And I have loved you oh so longCheri
The Dark is Rising by Susan Cooper is a young adult fantasy novel first published in 1973.
This book tells the tale of Will Stanton, who on his eleventh birthday learns that he is an Old One, a member of a group with magical powers who represent the Light, opposed to the members of the Dark.
Cooper uses colorful Celtic and Britannic legends and lore to create a world where Will must collect signs of power to be used against the forces of the dark.
Cooper also uses time travel elements to further compliment this imaginative and well-written fantasy.Not bad, but definitely for the younger crowd.
I read it countless times as a wee thing, of course, but it was also my book on a horrible flight home from Oxford after Trinity Term, and what I read the week I retired my first guide dog, and what I read in tiny pieces in the month after I lost my eye.
And this is textually celebrated as extraordinary, because the Old Ones have always needed their minds to beat back the Dark, but now they have things.
I stopped reading there and blinked a lot, because you just don't see formulations like that in fantasy, and it was confusing because I remembered this book as being so much about the mind.
I suspect that the books of this sequence are among the most beautiful I've read.
It's almost a bildungsroman, for all that we only see less than a month of an eleven year old boy's life.One of the main things I love about this sequence, particularly from this book on, is the characterisation.
It's wonderful how Susan Cooper shows us so many characters and makes us care about them, so briefly and succinctly.The writing, of course, I think is lovely.
I love the way Susan Cooper writes.I've read reviews where people felt that nothing happened in these books.
I saw the trailer for the upcoming movie—and more importantly, I saw Darcy's furious reaction to the trailer for the upcoming movie, and I realized that I didn't remember these books well enough to be properly furious myself.
I figured that, rereading them as an adult, I'd see the error of my ways.Sadly, I didn't.
I still don't find these books very engaging.
Over Sea Under Stone is, as even Darcy admits, only so-so: the setting is great (the rambling old Cornish house, the standing stones perched on their cliffs, the sea-cave), and at least one of the siblings (Barney) is spunky and entertaining, yet the treasure hunt-plot is oddly slow, and the conclusion completely unsatisfying in my mind.
As usual, I loved The Dark is Rising; the quiet moments of enchantment, the beautiful writing, the warmth of the family relationships and the reality of the bickering, protective group of siblings.
There’s more adult, complicated stuff as well as simple squabbling among siblings: the whole relationship between Merriman and Hawkin is a difficult one, and foreshadows what John Rowlands says about the Light in a later book.
As though the struggle between Light and Dark throughout history is focused on Britain.
But the focus on Britain as the whole centre of the fight against the Dark seems short-sighted.Still, that is the other thing to love: the glimpses of mythology surrounding the books.
With The Dark is Rising, Susan Cooper sets the stage for a sweeping fantasy saga about nothing in particular.When Will Stanton, an English lad from an unusually large family, turns twelve, he finds out he is an Old One - a being of great and mysterious powers who can hop in and out of human time and space anytime he chooses.
Cooper tries to set up her two sides as absolute good and absolute evil, but her book either doesn't know or doesn't care what those words actually mean.
3.5 stars
I suppose that what appeals to a child about a fantasy novel is the sense of mystery, adventure and the fact that no one in a fantasy novel need be powerless against the forces of evil let loose in the world.
The one thing I've always appreciated about this series is the story of Dark versus Light, good versus evil, one boy discovering his supernatural powers.The three verse poem written above represents the entire sequence of this series (which I prefer to read in the order of book 2, 1, 3, 4, 5 as for me the proper story begins here in the story of Will Stanton, last of the Old Ones.
His involvement and angst, if it exists, isn't communicated well.Also, despite his pack of brothers and sisters, I don't get the familiar interaction as among the Pervesie children or Harry and his friends.Which suggests another problem: the lack of humor.
In stories, as in life, the frivolous provides contrast for the serious.Still, I'm surprised this isn't/wasn't more popular.
Perhaps it was because Cooper was moving toward Rowling in her ideals while staying closer to Lewis in her prose.
Merriman is no Aslan nor a Dumbledore.
And William is no Harry, nor Peter or even Edmund.
2.5 stars. I really thought I was going to like this more than I did. It was well-written and the premise of a story was interesting. I just never really got into the story and found myself waiting for something exceptional to happen. Unfortunately, it didn't. That said, it wasn't a bad book and, being short, it didn't take too long to get through.
(Especially compared with A Wrinkle In Time, which I read immediately preceding this.) The forces of the Dark are unfortunately kept pretty vague, and Will's quest seemed too easy throughout, as if it were merely happening to him, but I enjoyed the careful placement of details and the large number of important supporting characters, including 8 siblings.I need to mention here that the book uses much Christian imagery, has several crucial scenes take place in a church, and is set almost entirely during Christmas time, but I was impressed by how little this bothered me -- it has hardly the blatant Christian overtones of C.S. Lewis or Madeleine L'Engle.
Using this spell, when Merriman retrieved the Book for the protagonist, he used the Walker's life as collateral.
Even though Merriman (in godlike fashion) understood how the Walker would choose, he cursed him to continue to help the side of Light by carrying one of its symbols for hundreds of years, living as a tramp and never being allowed even to die.Besides seeing this situation as weighted against the Walker, on this reading I realized that the story is also assigning moral value to feudal loyalty.
Then, the scene of the villagers gathered around the aristocrat is one of appropriate protection, beautiful and harmonious.These things are mostly subtle, but they align the old, patriarchal social order with the Light -- another unfortunate tendency common to many fantasy stories.
Susan Cooper needs to make it less work for the reader to try and figure out what's going on.
I think any hero needs to make some great sacrifice in order to pass his testing.
Basically, a character who had to pass a test, where (though the threat of a sacrifice was present) actually made no sacrifice, was never truely tested.The only reason the plot line was not unbearibly predictable was because it was so substandard I kept exspecting the author to take things to the next level.
Cool concepts, but there are way better books than this that present a more through understanding into what Susan Cooper was trying to accomplish.
The Old Ones, for all they come from human families (presumably, if Will Stanton is representative) are not even a little bit human, and Light and Dark clash in ways that care nothing for individual men and women.
So this time, I'm conflicted.12/22/15: A lovely afternoon's re-read.
One of the things I love about it is its depiction of a large family; I'm the oldest of nine children and this always comes off as very believable to me.
The contrast between the very small concerns of an 11-year-old boy and the very large concerns of the last of the Old Ones, tasked with a great quest, makes this story come alive.Read 12/18/11: I always like to re-read this around Christmastime.
Read this for the second time ever for the #DarkIsReading challenge. I had forgotten a great deal of it, like the fact that it takes place between the Winter Solstice and Twelfth Night. I remembered that it was Will's 11th birthday, but not the significance of the date/s. It has been really interesting to read it now, with a community, and see how many people were influenced by this book and series. I can also see how it has influenced modern middle grade fantasies.
It was just odd to me, how Will moved back and forth from Old One to child.Good portrayal of The Walker.
There was a reason for his choices, and even though I did not agree with them, I understood them.The weakest link in the book is Cooper's almost tautological portrayal of the villain -- this vague entity called The Dark.
The Light is Good and the Dark is Bad, with no intermediate dusk.
That wide grey sweep was the lawn, with the straggling trees of the orchard still dark beyond; the white squares were the roofs of the garage, the old barn, the rabbit hutches, the chicken coops.
Comparing these to Lewis and Tolkien is a BIG stretch.
The comparison to Lewis or Tolkien probably caused me to drop my rating...I even considered a one.
Decide for yourself about this but There is for me a feeling of what could have been in these books.
The writing itself isn't the problem it's just (and this is my opinion) the story feels awfully flawed.I wanted this to be a better book, I really wanted to like it.
So, as I said, decide for yourself.I like an occasional YA read.
I'd read it personally before turning it over to young readers.
Will discovers that he has the power of the Old Ones, and that he must embark on a quest to vanquish the terrifyingly evil magic of the Dark.This is an adaption of the second book in the series collectively entitled "The Dark is Rising" Dramatised by David Calcutt.Will - James WalmsleyMerriman - Ronald PickupWith Struan Rodger, Geoffrey Banks, Carolyn Backhouse, Leo Conville, Hilary Attenborough, Susannah Tresilian , Richard Derrington, Susan Jeffrey, Mary Wimbush, Kathryn Hunt, Gerry Hinks and Tina Gray.
Directed by Nigel Bryant1 - The WakingWill Stanton wishes for snow on his birthday, but has not bargained on the frightening adventures which will come with it...2 - The Learning.
The Dark is Rising is the second book in the sequence, yet it was the one that got adapted into an apparently awful film, and it was the one that gave its title to the entire series.
Sort of.Gamers like to refer to some video games as having sequences “on rails”, which means an action sequence where the player has little to no control over their movement but full control over their weapons (for example, being on a moving train that takes them along a pre-determined route while they fight off bad guys).
But mediocre writing is usually very hard indeed.My reviews of the Dark is Rising sequence:← Over Sea, Under Stone | Greenwitch →
In fact, the jump from the first book to the second almost feels like a jump to a different series, except for the continuity of themes and some characters.
This is a huge departure from the exciting first book, in which it felt like the main characters had to figure out everything, and with the imminent threat that time would run out.Additionally, while there seem to be a lot of rules to the magic and the characters which govern the story, these rules are only given to the reader as events happen.
This book has maybe one of my favourite ways of looking at England, the country and people:"He saw one race after another come attacking his island country, bringing each time the malevolence of the Dark with them, wave after wave of ships rushing inexorably at the shores.
Each wave of men in turn grew peaceful as it grew to know and love the land, so that the Light flourished again."It doesn't quite work, I think: there's the issue of colonialism, which was arguably wave after wave of the Dark coming out of our island (and the English, Welsh, Scottish and Irish have never yet sat perfectly comfortably together, there's still colonialism at work there).
I first read this when it was released, around 40 years ago (I was already in my late teens, but I've never seen age as a barrier to reading good books, no matter what age range they were intended for). The entire sequence is terrific, but this is the book I always come back to - often at Christmas, when the book is set. Will Stanton's 11-year-old jump from straightforward boyhood into a world of mysticism and magic is brilliantly described, and the story moves at a perfect pace. What can I say? Read it...
Given its midwinter setting, it's a book I often re-read at Christmas, though I hadn't done so for a few years; the last time I tried was in 2010, when it snowed heavily the weekend before Christmas and the snow didn't melt until almost New Year, and somehow having actual snow outside and bitter cold instead of the normal damp mild greyness of December made it seem far too bleak and real, and I had to put it aside and didn't go back to it for a few years.
I love the push and pull between Will-as-Old-One and Will-as-youngest-Stanton - the contrast between Wise Magical Dude and little boy never fails to delight.
And, for me, that's kind of the heart of why I like Will (and Bran, later on) better than the Drews.
I think this is in part because it's set at Christmas-time, so I at least was more familiar with the songs used (and could therefore 'hear' them better in the context of the story), in addition to the Special Music Of The Light.
If reading book 1 was a throwback to an earlier time and structure (and, as noted, not a bad thing), this book is leap-years beyond.
But, unlike Riordan's books, there is none of the manic racing about that, while amusing, delivers little in the way of character development.In comparison to...
Wrinkle in Time - character development and world building are significantly deeper.In comparison to...
This allows him to be aware, compassionate, angry, and afraid in ways that readers of all ages can empathize with.As for book 2 in the series we meet Uncle Merry again, although more formally, and we learn a bit more about this enigmatic character.
These things are so enjoyable I'm considering hoovering up one a day before I start back at work next week.Really loved the clarity of the images Cooper paints.
The carved doors in the snow.
The burning log across the old lane.
The palm fronds packaging the carnival mask from Jamaica.My only complaint is the persistent Potter-bashing I see in other reviews.
It's as if people are angry that this series hasn't gotten the same crazed treatment and/or think that they are somehow 'better' than Potter nerds for loving it?
Both are valid and magical in their own way!Anyway, lovely series!
The Dark is Rising was quite disappointing, making it all the more surprising that it won awards and stuff.
I guess I can kind of see why--the writing is at least meant to seem deep.
The fact that it has a literary style of any kind is a novelty, for the most part, in juvenile fiction, I suppose.
A book written for young people but strewn with adjectives and adverbs and multi-clause sentences must be pretty serious stuff.Anyway, the story was weak and had very little punch, and the premise, at least in how it was explained, had some troublingly racist (and heavily monarchist) overtones, what with noble white Brits having staved off waves of dark-skinned invaders for lo these many centuries, etc.It's fun to go back and see, though, which favorite books from my youth hold up and which ones don't.
