https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219318.Franz_Kafka
Biography of Kafka by his best friend and literary executor, whose adoration shines through.
Brod reveals a much happier and more positive aspect of his character than might be assumed from his works, although it also mentions his negative thoughts and feelings (especially re his father, anxiety and mixed feelings about marriage, and feelings that his writing was not good enough).
Brod told him he wouldn't do it.
Kafka did not appoint anyone else as his literary executor instead, so maybe Brod is absolved of betrayal (as well as to be hailed for preserving wonderful works for posterity).
Algunos aspectos, desconocidos para mí, como por ejemplo la de sus escapadas a Italia a la ciudad de Brescia, que forma parte de uno de los apéndices del libro, escrito por el propio Kafka para ver por primera vez en sus vidas el vuelo de aeroplanos, Blériot incluido.Otro apartado interesante en el apéndice son dos cartas de Kafka sobre la educación de los niños, apoyándose un poco en el libro “Los Viajes de Gulliver”, de Jonathan Swift, algo que resulta un tanto extraño proviniendo de alguien que jamás tuvo hijos.Hay muchos pasajes de su traumática relación de Kafka con Hermann, su padre, sobre su complicada relación con las mujeres que amó (o intentó amar) y me sorprendieron algunos aspectos relacionados a este tema: en primer lugar que Max Brod no se haya atrevido a escribir el nombre de Felice Bauer, el primer amor de Kafka sino solamente a través de la abreviatura F.B. ni tampoco nombrar para nada la otra relación con la segunda mujer que atrajo a Kafka, me refiero a Mílena Jesenská ya que entre ambos hubo una intensa y abultada correspondencia epistolar.
This is one of the essential books I have long kept waiting for years since my first encounter one of his works, notably The Metamorphosis first published in 1915 (Everyman's Library, 1993, pp. 75-128) in which I found reading inexplicably thrilling and amazing for its unique plot, setting, protagonist, etc. One of the reasons is that his life is worth knowing and studying, still keeping his readers wondering on his literary output in spite of his age at 40 as we can see from his biography (http
This is one of the essential books I have long kept waiting for years since my first encounter one of ้his works, notably The Metamorphosis first published in 1915 (Everyman's Library, 1993, pp.
One of the reasons is that his life is worth knowing and studying, still keeping his readers wondering on his literary output in spite of his age at 40 as we can see from his biography (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franz_K...).
Written by Max Brod one of Kafka's close friends and published in German, this well-researched book has since been popular and deserved to read as an essential supplementary biography compiled from letters, diary entries, oral account, etc.
from Max Brod himself and Kafka's intimate friends.
he also connects this woman to claims that there is a hoard of unpublished letters and writing that the woman in question took with her family when they fled to Chile at the start of world war 2.A book that is a true must have read find a copy anyway you can!!
Brod's bias, his tangents, style, and not-so-subtle self-promotion are all questionable, but the subject himself is far too dear to warrant any weaker a rating.
I loved this book. Franz Kafka had a gift that most of us lack, he could think clearly.
Brod lo empezó todo, ignoramos que sabríamos de Kafka actualmente, cómo lo valoraríamos, sin la contribución de Max Brod: aunque esté plagada de errores o sea, cuanto menos, bastante cuestionable en muchos de sus aspectos.Un texto crucial por lo que representa: la fundación del mito y del modelo literario kafkiano, el primero que pone el empeño y el esfuerzo en acercarnos una de las figuras más importantes de la literatura universal.
Work of love.“Everything that came from him, came in a way that became less and less forced as the years went on, a precious expression of his quite special way of looking at things—patient, life-loving, ironically considerate towards the follies of the world, and therefore full of sad humor, but never forgetful of the real kernel, “The Indestructible”, and so always far from being blasé or cynical.
It is written by his longtime friend, Max Brod, the person who Franz was closest to (and I am including his family members).
Brod gives us glimpses into Kafka’s world, showing us how the intensity of his conflict with his father deeply impacted his soul—and how it presented itself in Kafka’s stories.
Brod paints a portrait of a kind of “pure soul, a fully truthful human being incapable of machinations and scheming, deeply sensitive to his friends, family and the women he loved.
Brod made me want to go back and re-read Kafka’s major works, “The Trial” and “The Castle.”
This early Kafka’s biography has interesting anecdotal stories.
However, Max Brod does his best portraying Kafka as a Jewish writer writing stories about Judaism.
Kafka was not a Zionist.
Still, Brod leads the way to approach Kafka’s writing and to understand why his letters and diary are part of his work.
As he points out, Kafka’s interest in writes material outside of their main work fascinated him.
Also, Brod illuminates our understanding of Kafka’s writing process and how work disrupted his creativity but also provided him material.
One has to approach this text with caution and distrust, the same way Kafka read religious texts.
4 1/4 stars
Please, if any of you are thinking of resurrecting Max Brod and making sure he's my best friend, I'm warning you now: do not let him write a biography about me.Max Brod: lovely man.
Franz Kafka: A Biography: boring book.There are some gems in there (little sprigs of beauty exemplifying Kafka's character), but they are like 50 pages or more apart!
But no, Max keeps it clean.What is expressed is that Max loved a truly terrific friend of his in Kafka.
What is also expressed is that Max was at a loss to sum the experience up in a presentable way.
what an interesting mind.
Brod uses most of the book to promote most of his own work. I had a difficult time following, but the bits about Kafka you get, the segments of writing and information is worth the read.
If you love Kafka, you will love this biography, by someone who personally knew and deeply respected Kafka immensely.
ljubav.
Such a depressing life for one that tried to live optimistically.
