https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89346.Lyndon_Johnson_and_the_American_Dream
She explains how his talent in one-on-one interactions and his ability to manipulate and coerce individuals help him attain power and accomplish things in the Senate.
A president's constituents are many and widely-varying groups; they go beyond the one hundred Senators that a Senate Majority Leader has to please and cajole.Where the book falls short:1) Explaining personality and character is important in biography, but Goodwin goes overboard, using psychoanalytic theory (in easy-to-understand language for the masses) to explain nearly everything.
Martin Luther King, Jr. gets two lines in the index, five mentions in the book.
Kearns does present a ton of first-hand quotes and experiences with LBJ, particularly as they dealt with Vietnam, his political motivations and machinations, and his legacy, but as a whole, the book is a bit of a slog to get through, and so much is left out that it ends up being neither a particularly enjoyable read nor a particularly informative biography.
My guess is that this book would best be appreciated by folks who've already read a solid LBJ bio and might find the first hand accounts interesting, as well as the way that LBJ was obviously shaping the narrative Kearns was trying to put together.
Her writing about those times is so good, and you get a real sense of the type of person he was.
I'd like to read a memoir of her time with him.I was surprised how much LBJ was like Nixon toward the end of his presidency -- paranoid, mistrustful of the Eastern Establishment, haunted by the Kennedy legacy.Overall, this was a great intro to LBJ, and I'll read more about him.
This isn't the end all and be all biography, but I guess it's hard to sum up a man like this in one book.
At first I balked at the 22-page forward written by the author some years after publication, but as it turned out, that was by far the most interesting part of the book.
A few commas here and there would have prevented me from having to read a sentence three times to understand just what she was saying.
We hear very little about Lady Bird; it's almost as though he courted her, married her and then she just disappears until after his political life has ended; and almost nothing about JFK's assassination or MLK's in 1968.
However, some of the LBJ books that deal with JFK's assassination might be worthwhile.
And her husband (Richard Goodwin) worked in both the JFK and LBJ administrations.This ostensibly comprehensive 400-page biography memorializes Goodwin’s discussions with Johnson during the decade-long friendship they maintained and attempts to extract from them the true nature of his character.
LBJ’s successful (and wildly controversial) election to the Senate, which could easily form the basis of its own book, receives about a page.Another consequence of the cursory focus on LBJ’s pre-presidency – but a natural consequence of Goodwin’s unique window into his life – is that the reader is never able to observe the incredibly enlightening relationships Johnson maintained with Sam Rayburn and Richard Russell.
I'd heard a few things about President Johnson before reading this book: he was brash and egotistical, he held his dogs up by the ears, and he added a lot of welfare programs during his tenure.
In fact, when his library seemed to lacking the visitors he thought should be there, he told the staff to open earlier in the morning and stay open until late at night.
It was absolutely fascinating and I want to see it again.Thus I was prompted to buy Goodwin's book which was offered in their store.
Goodwin actually worked in the White House with LBJ for awhile as an intern - not always directly with him - in spite of her opposing viewpoint on Vietnam.
She agreed to a part-time commitment because she had a teaching job at Harvard that she wanted to keep.So she has personal knowledge of Johnson and his psychology.
Goodwin believes that, had it not been for Vietnam, Johnson would have gone down in history as one of our best presidents.
This is a great biography of LBJ.
Previously I had read Robert Dallek's LBJ biography, and the two books complement one another to give a well rounded description of LBJ's character, personality, drive, public service, accomplishments, and also his shortcomings.
This book has somewhat less analysis of policy and legislation than Dallek's book, but it has a great deal more character analysis.
She came to know the man and understand his personality and his constitution as few others can claim to.
For a good understanding of Lyndon Johnson, and of America during the years from the Great Depression through the turbulent 1960s, read this very well written book.

(Later in life, LBJ admitted his distrust of Eastern intellectuals IE Harvard grads.) Sam served in the statelegislature for a time & took a strong stance against the KKK.
Goodwin dug into the psychology behind LBJ's thought process & decision-making: clearly beyond the scope ofher expertise, and annoying when repeated multiple times.
The controversy was LBJ's "secret war" in Vietnam where the US already had advisors.
Johnson took $ allocated for Great Society programs and used it instead for bombingNo. Vietnam, and sending/ escalating the # of US troops inVietnam.
Goodwin stated his Cabinet, staff, and some members of Congress felt LBJ paranoid about this.
Since I was a war protester and my draft number was 33, I had no love for Lyndon Johnson during his presidency.
Since then, I had come to appreciate his dramatic role in changing the face of civil rights in America.
The behind the scenes look at Johnson, from his pragmatic days on Capitol Hill to his lonely decisions amid a group of "smart" advisors, was excellent.
You would be surprised at the number of Asians that are my age that feel that the American stand in Viet Nam saved them from communist domination.
It is hard to believe that Doris Kearns Goodwin who would go on to have a very distinguished career as an historian could have begun her career with something as dreadful as Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream.
Ms. Goodwin possessing a Ph.D. in government from Harvard had the professional obligation to conduct systematic research and base her conclusions on relevant evidence.
Ms. Goodwin decides to tell the story of Johnson's youth based on the yarns that he has recounted to her while working on his memoires.
If only the research had been as thorough as the conclusions were sensible, I would have enjoyed this book a great deal more than I did.
Excellent book on the Lyndon Johnson presidency.
Kearns Goodwin puts Johnson into the context of the rise of the modern Presidency and the structure of power inside the modern White House.
Ignore those and concentrate on the excellent explanations of the Washington power structure and emergence of the modern Presidency.
Her discussions about the weakening of the balance of power between the Congress and the President in foreign affairs are also lucid and clear.
buku ini baru gw dapet dari sahabat gw yang pulang dari Boston...gw dah mulai baca nihh buku,...bagian yang paling gw suka:"Not the Cynics," Johnson wrote in 1927,"but the men of faith are responsible for the progress of humanity...For example, in the great struggle of the Revolution...two matchless leaders were Thomas Paine and Benjamin Franklin.
He was a great constructor, a builder, a man of vision and faith...Faith Builds, but cynicism destroys."" The American people are tired of wrecking crews.
This very readable biography merges the public and private life to create a greater understanding of the rise of Lyndon Johnson from the common man in Texas, to one of our greatest presidents.I have rarely found a biography to be a "can't put it down" book.
I had a fairly basic knowledge of Lyndon Johnson, but very little understanding of his motivations and insecurities.
Doris Kearns Goodwin made me understand the man, rather than just a politician.Since my college days were over about 40 years ago, I rarely highlight books.
Although he is revealed to be a liar and a scoundrel, the pleasure of this book is better understanding what an amazing strategist he was -- and that his strategy was often used for the good of the American people.
The downfall of his inability to understand other cultures is clearly explained, and although no one can ever forgive something like the Vietnam Conflict, this book does allow you to better see Johnson's (although I will admit, wrong) perspective.It was especially refreshing to read about Johnson's senate years in a time when Congress is expressly ineffective.
Not as extensive or interesting as Caro's volumes, but Kearns adds her own psychological and political analyses that makes for a gripping read.
We are allowed to delve into the man’s psyche and see what his motivations were, and how things might have turned out a bit different had LBJ played his cards a bit differently.If you’re looking for a biography of the man, this really isn’t the book for you.
After learning so much from Robert Caro, there were times that I felt Doris Kearns Goodwin was skipping too many things and zooming too fast through Johnson’s life.
Whereas Robert Caro spend almost an entire book devoted to the congressional races where Johnson infamously opposed Pappy O’Daniel and Coke Stevonson, Goodwin devotes merely half a page to each.Again, though, this isn’t to be classified as a biography in the strict sense of the word.
The book was available, and I felt compelled to read it, as I have enjoyed the author, Doris Kearns Goodwin in Team of Rivals.
The author makes a solid case explaining LBJ as a product of his circumstances.
Goodwin showed how partisan political power became subordinated to Johnson's will, as the government became a kind of extension of LBJ's personality rather than a process of sorting out ideas.
The book is worth the time, and Goodwin's insights bring good understanding to an important figure in 20th century United States politics.
After all these years, still an essential must read about LBJ by a scholar who worked at his side.
As he rose to power in the US Senate, Goodwin details his uncanny ability to achieve compromise and consensus working within the comfortable confines of the clubby atmosphere of the Senate.
Unfortunately, the Vietnam War overshadowed all the forward strides in the area of civil rights and the Great Society.
LBJ abused executive power and escalated the involvement of the US in the Vietnames conflict without congressional approval until we ultimately had 500,000 troops engaged by 1969.
This is a really good book especially for those interested in politics, the civil rights movement, Vietnam War and history of the US from 1950 to 1970.
Chosen by LBJ when she was a student at Harvard for a Fellows Program Kearns stayed on his life helping him write his memoirs which gave her an unusual opportunity to write a book both sympathetic to and yet critical of LBJ.
Kearns seems to believe it was inevitable that Vietnam would be the undoing of LBJ and during that period you meet an LBJ who seems delusional flaying out at all those who question the war—the intellectuals, the press, the liberals,even the generals—LBJ craved appreciation for trying to help people through the Great Society, his endorsement of Equal Rights for all, his fighting of Communism in Vietnam.
Ms. Kearns-Goodwin ignores the issue that these activities probably would not have occurred if there were women in positions of responsibility in Johnson’s administration.Smoking – The author seems to imply that Johnson’s heart attack in 1955 and other health issues were caused by his hard work.
The book does not mention his smoking at all even though his doctors insisted that he quit after the heart attack.Johnson’s language – The author refers to Johnson’s language as “colorful.” Many people, apparently including Ms. Goodwin think that four-letter words are colorful.
We also visited the TX Book Depository where Oswald shot JFK, LBJ's family home and the TX White House where he relaxed and later died.I've always enjoyed watching Ms Goodwin give political analysis on TV and read both her Kennedy and Roosevelt books, but I enjoyed this one the most, probably because LBJ was president during that crazy year of 1968 when I graduated and was married.
Doris Kearns Goodwin has to be one of the most talented writers of historical books.
But Goodwin does play the role of a psychologist in this book.
Lyndon Johnson while our most successful president if you measure by the number of bills passed was a deeply complex and troubled man.If Machiavelli was the model for achieving great power in the 16th century, surely Johnson was the model for the 20th.
If Vietnam had been settled quicker like Korea would Johnson had served a second term in1968.
I believe they will always be thankful that Lyndon Johnson served as the 36th president.
I have also read several books by Doris Kearns Goodwin and found all of them to be well written and researched.This was very different from other presidential biographies that I have read in that it concentrated more on the psychology of the individual than the achievements of his career.
The book is well written and researched.
Not having read any of the other biographies on LBJ I can not compare it to others impressions.I recommend this book for anyone who has an interest in the Presidents of the United States or in Lyndon Johnson in particular.
The Vietnam stuff just becomes depressing, because Johnson was doing so many good things domestically, and he just couldn't shake this awful war that kept getting worse and worse.
Like now, except not so much with the good things domestically.
Sometimes today it's hard to put ourselves in these people's shoes, but they honestly felt like we HAD to stop any communist spread, no matter what, that the security of the world depended on it.
According to Goodwin, to his dying day Johnson was convinced that if he had handled Vietnam in any other way, it would have lead to World War Three.
A meditation on the evolution of the American political system as much as an account of Johnson's life and times, Goodwin's book is a dense and daunting read.
The absorbing and riveting personal narratives of Team of Rivals are somewhat missing in this earlier historical work of Goodwin's.
Instead, Goodwin revisits again a much more psychological interpretation of a president, exploring his "mommy" issues and his recurring dreams.
More than that it was a text on political science with examples from the 1930's and emphasis to about 1970.
The book is a masterful example of history and the study of government being melded to explain and to teach.
I would recommend anyone considering public service to read this book, especially the writer's note at the end.
The concepts covered are astonishingly relevant to today's politics.The author/scholar does not shade the facts or insights about the man.
I was quite young during the events recorded in the book and am grateful for such an insightful and balanced bit of history.
Anyone interested in Lyndon Johnson, or the American presidency in general, needs to read this book.
A complete portrait of Lyndon Johnson is not complete without this book.
This is likely a result of the book originally being published in 1976 when the decade of the 1960's was still fresh in everyone's mind.
Aside from this minor shortcoming, it is an excellent book and I highly recommend it.
Though it was originally published in 1976, the book still has relevance today as another commander-in-chief from Texas has the United States embroiled in another war overseas.
