https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41069.Stand_on_Zanzibar
:: Stand on Zanzibar is one of my favorite novels :: a) Stand on Zanzibar is about overpopulation. if the entire world's population were to stand on Zanzibar, it would sink.b) Stand on Zanzibar is about information. how is it processed? what does it really mean?c) Stand on Zanzibar is about the evils and cupidity of corporatization. it is about how a corporation may be able to do a good thing, despite itself.d) Stand on Zanzibar is about the evils and stupidity of the State. it provides many exa
and the way my own mind processes information.PROFILE OF NOVEL: according to my best friend wikipedia, "Stand on Zanzibar was innovative within the science fiction genre for mixing narrative with entire chapters dedicated to providing background information and worldbuilding, to create a sprawling narrative that presents a complex and multi-faceted view of the story's future world.
SCANALYZE: "eptification" is a process in which the government can turn an ordinary man into a trained assassin.CAST INCLUDES: Donald Hogan is a white american and a synthesist - a rather dilettante-ish position paid for by the government, in which the practitioner studies patterns in the mass flow of information.
Some time later this concept was expanded due to population increases to speculate that the same experiment could be done on the Isle of Man. Brunner, setting his novel in the not too distant future of 2010, extrapolated that then, with population continuing to expand exponentially, the gathering would need to be conducted on the African island of Zanzibar.Stand on Zanzibar uses a narrative technique pioneered by the Lost Generation novelist John Dos Passos in his USA trilogy.
Brunner has done an admirable job in contemplating a time, only 40 odd years in his future where over population and increasing poverty are progressing at an alarming rate.
When we can look forward to picture phones, holographic t.v. sets , Moon bases looking down on the poor, struggling, threatened Earth, and battery powered cars everywhere, (can't wait) but no cell phones or internet, the book was written in 1968, which shows how useless forecasting the future is, if the obvious has to be stated again...
Mr. House has a vast amount of reading to do, though, too bad there is no internet or cell phones in this alternative future, the job would be a whole lot easier, all those books to carry around...
Definitely one of the best SF dystopias, which IMHO deserved more attention.
OK, it's fair that "1984" and "Brave New World" received greater critical acclaim - there's no doubt that they are better.
But there must be a hundred people who have read them for every one who's read Zanzibar, and that's not an accurate reflection of the difference in quality.
Brunner has some interesting things to say that you won't find in either of the other two books, and he writes quite well.By the way, in case you're wondering: the title is based on the computation that, when the action takes place, you would require the surface area of the island of Zanzibar to find standing room for the entire population of the Earth.
And now?I'm only reminded of the great effort that I had to put into reading it.
But I can step back and admire it from afar and pray I'm never called on to read the novel again.On the other hand, I did get into Donald's story easier this time, and Norman with Chad C.
Mulligan kicks all sorts of ass from the beginning to almost the very last line in the novel.
Just having a great premise doesn't always mean you've got a truly timeless story.(I'm speaking to you, Mr. Love Aerosol.)"God damn you for crazy idiots!
That was 600+ pages of sheer eccentricity! Not in a bad way, but wow. I love books like this, that push the boundaries in some way, play around with indirect narrative. As long as they know why they're doing it. This one did.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
6.0 stars (One of my All Time Favorites). A staggering novel. Rich in characters, a superbly crafted story that moves very quickly and deals with some very important issues. I absolutely loved this book and consider it one of the true classics of Science Fiction. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1969)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1969)Winner: Britsh Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1970)
Reading this before discovering DosPassos' U.S.A., I was mightily impressed by Brunner's originality of technique.
Discovering U.S.A., I was even more impressed by DosPassos, of course, but did not fault Brunner's employment of the other's proven methods for painting an enormous, richly textured picture of a possible future.The book was anxiety-provoking in 1969.
The accuracy of many of Brunner's predictions makes one wonder about the increasingly large subgenre of science fiction books which are set in futures which have now happened.
A subsequently set novel by Brunner, The Sheep Look Up, is also available and worth reading for many of the same reasons.
6.0 stars (One of my All Time Favorites). A staggering novel. Rich in characters, a superbly crafted story that moves very quickly and deals with some very important issues. I absolutely loved this book and consider it one of the true classics of Science Fiction. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1969)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1969)Winner: Britsh Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1970)
This is not a proper review. I just want to share my opinion.One of the fictitious nation on this novel, Yatakang, is a good analogy/shadowing of Indonesia at second half of 1960s period condition. Maybe that helps me to give high rating for this book. There isn't many SF books that picturing the Indonesia as details as this book. Until now, this is the best that I have found so far.
One of the best SF dystopias from the late 60s about overpopulation in the future, and deserving of a much broader audience. One of my early high school favorites.
Broken into four distinct parts, each seemingly independent yet inextricably symbiotic: each strain creates parallel, utopian building blocks which buoy the next disparate section forward and so on: a very, very cool technique which reminded me of what Sherwood Andersen was doing in Winesburg, Ohio (yeah, a far fetched connection, but if the shoe fits....).If the ideas (overpopulation leading to eugenics and mass riots) are a little stale nowadays, the language and presentation style are crispy fresh: a particular pinnacle is the rendition of a party scene where all laws of narration are broken down and we end up with a unique cacophony of ‘shiggy’ voices talking over each other, and strangely, registering on statistical graphs, anomalous ‘situations’ and entropic Venn diagrams.
Stand on Zanzibar and The Sheep Look Up were two of my favourite books at university, and the covers even appear in my Master's Thesis.Brunner wrote a few truly awful sci-fi books early in his career, and then "something happened (LSD?)", and then he wrote these two masterpieces. Truly Awesome books!Set in 2010, note that the book features a president named "Obomi" !!
Found it interesting; a unique style of writing. I've read different ways; the normal way from front to end, then also by sticking to the sub-headings; context, the happening world, tracking with closeups, etc. Either way, it made for excellent reading.
And as I suggested above, I kept thinking of Jeff Noon's fiction, particularly Channel Sk1n.The plot Brunner chooses from among the billions of possible stories on that/this overcrowded world concerns a mega-corporation that is getting ready to buy a country, the men chosen to spearhead the project (which takes a long view of a Third World nation's economic development into a new kind of global economic powerhouse as just another opportunity to increase shareholder value -- eerily, kind of the way our modern private prison industry works!), and some of their friends.
this is perhaps one of the most prescient science fiction novels ever written.i picked this up relatively recently, aware that it had a certain reputation as a classic of the genre, but also expecting it to have aged relatively badly, like many classics of the time.
while reading Stand on Zanzibar i felt like i was reading a contemporary work of near-future science-fiction, transported over from a parallel history.
if it weren't for the errors in science and technology, it reads as if it had been written in the closing years of the century, and set to happen now.one might perhaps compare it to William Gibson's All Tomorrow's Parties, but pulled from an alternate history, and much better written.
I understand this was a breakthrough novel for 1967, and it is full of ideas that are staggering for the time it was written, but for me this didn't work as a story.
I like the idea of all these snap shots of the world, like a photomontage, but it would have worked better if they were fleshed out a bit more, given a more personal focus.
One of those books that if someone tells you about it, it sounds so much better and more interesting than it actually is (looks good on paper?)...
A lot of folks love this book, and I really tried to like it, and maybe I just wasn't in the right mood, but these characters, and the way they treated women, was just too annoying to me. I gave up.
Basically, there is a definite plot in the middle of all this, a rather dull one, but it is interspersed with advertising slogans and newspaper excerpts and mini-anecdotes, and then, every few pages, the book returns to its normal story.
For proof of this assertion, just look at the majority of commentaries about this novel: everyone talks about how prescient Brunner was, and how cleverly he predicted all this.
There is a party-chatter chapter in the middle of the book that is brilliant, probably the best section of the novel.
But the book fails to grip for more than 10-20 pages at a time.
Bet surasti mokslinės fantastikos ir distopinę knygą, kuri tiksliai atspėjo didelius dalykus yra turbūt neįmanoma, bet kai geriau pagalvoji mažiau pribloškiančius dalykus, tokius kaip infliacijos procentus, ekonominę Europos bendriją ar geopolitinę situaciją, atspėti yra dar sunkiau, o šios knygos autoriui tai pavyko.
Taigi šis romanas stebuklingai sugebėjo atspėti kai kuriuos povandeninius ateities pasaulio dalykus, bet prašauti pro šalį kaip tik tiek, kad ramiai toje ateityje knygos dabartį būtų galima perkelti į dar tolimesnę ateitį ir vėl traktuoji ją kaip įspėjimą.
I was intrigued by the fact it was written in 1968 and the story was set in 2010!I loved the phrases the author invented - codders and shiggies (men and women), mockers, sheeting hell (I say that a lot myself now!), pint of whaledreck.I loved the vast array of colourful characters - especially the inimitable Chad C Mulligan.Some of the scenes (most of them very short and shocking) will stick in my memory for a long time.
Such as the teenager who kills his mother, the riot, the priest who is slipped a 'truth' drug, the old colonial guy who has an affair with a younger woman - he then finds out she is in a relationship with two men..The theme of the book is of course overpopulation.
A difficult to read.
Difficult to rate.
I wouldn't even try.However, it is an outstanding and unique work from a guy who, until then (1967) primarily published - as did PKD - in Ace Double paperbacks.It's a book about everything, and written in a very unusual and clever fashion with simultaneous overlapping segments: Context.
Continuity.The bulk of the "actual novel" is in the "continuity" sections.
One could simply read that, but all the world building and "spirit of the society" are written within the other sections.Took me a while to get to this one, but glad I finally did.
A must read.
A dystopic collage of media overstimulation and neocolonial globalization, a highly textured sensory experience of our own world, five years ago, predicted nearly 50 years ago. Most interesting is not what he got right, but the few things he got wrong.
Where to start when talking about Stand on Zanzibar? Maybe the meaning of the title: "And to close on, the Dept of Small Consolations Some troubledome just figured out that if you allow for every codder and shiggy and appleofmyeye a space one foot by two you could stand us all on the six hundred forty square mile surface on the island of Zanzibar ToDAY third MAY twenty-TEN come aGAIN!" By the end of the book, several months later, poor Zanzibar can no longer hold all of humanity and some of our
Brunner tells the story in a very interesting way, using short chapters of various types to both tell the main story which follows the major actions of the book (these chapters are called "continuity") and chapters that flesh-out the wider world.
I almost feel like the character Chad Mulligan, highly regarded, if abrasive, sociologist, stood in for Brunner as he bemoans and derides what human society has devolved into (Don't worry, it doesn't come across as preachy; he serves as an accessible character for a reader not of the book's time and place).
The setting itself is typical of the 'Future Shock' dystopia's of the late '60's and early '70's, but this one is I think, by virtue of the format in which the story is told, by far the most compelling and best realized of these.The novel does a very good job of predicting the culture and desperation of the 1970's, but is other than that its take on the future seems very dated and ultimately too tied to the political and social conceits of the period.
Not due to the subject matter, but rather getting to know the vernacular of Brunner's near-future, becoming acquainted with largish cast of characters (of whom only 5 are so are of primary importance, but there are dozens of ancillary characters), and the organization of the book.
Chapters of plot (labelled as 'Continuity' in the header) are cut and spliced with scenes that have no direct bearing on the primary plot or advertising scripts or some other such thing.
By around chapter 3 or so I found my bearings and once I did, I couldn't put it down.
I tried - got about halfway through before deciding I didn't need to force myself to read a book I disliked this much.
I bought and read this book in 1968, it is without doubt one of the most amazing Sci-Fi books of all time.
I love the way he describes when the book was based - In 1968 the entire population of the World crammed together would occupy the Island - The Isle of Wight - in the UK, the time the book depicted the population would fit on Zanzibar.
In 1968 the way this book was written was different to anything I had ever read, it was and remains a stand out book.
Highly recommended for any Sci-Fi fan.
This and "The Sheep Look Up" are Brunner's masterworks, though there are dozens of worthwhile reads from his amazing pen. This involved work, structurally based on John Dos Passos' "U.S.A. trilogy," gives a full worldview of what was then a not-too-distant future. Brunner had a knack for extrapolating current events and where they were likely to lead, and what we have in "Stand on Zanzibar" is a world that is in many ways like the one in which we now live. A cloak-and-dagger mystery as well as social critique, it locked me onto Brunner's beam for a long time.
I posted a longer review to my blog, but one basic summary is that the present isn't that different from Brunner's imagined future, and it is all our fault.I loved how Brunner presented the feeling of information overload, in fact I had more fun reading the first half of the book, which is less story and more atmosphere, than I did reading the actual plot-heavy parts.
