https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62169.The_Complete_Jack_the_Ripper
Probably the most famous murderer of all time, Jack the Ripper has fascinated the public for over 120 years.
The crimes suddenly stopped and the identity of Jack the Ripper was never discovered.The author does not attempt to name the Ripper in this book; rather he writes a complete history of the crimes and the investigation.
It is probably time to admit that we will never know who was Jack the Ripper, as does the author, but that will not stop the introduction of new theories and "lost information" suddenly found.
Here's why: Rumbelow isn't a writer by profession.
In addition, I didn't see the need for his final chapter, "Beyond the Grave", which covered other violent crimes (like the Yorkshire Ripper and the Dusseldorf Monster).
For my taste, just give the down and dirty on Jack and leave it at that.This is a grisly, graphic book, with descriptions of the mutilations, mortuary photos, and some pretty disgusting information in the final chapter I previously memtioned (Beyond the Grave).
Obviously, this is about the Ripper, so it isn't rainbows and ponies, but Rumbelow doesn't pull any punches -- it's all out there.
This book explores the phenomenon of Jack the Ripper, the notorious 19th-century serial killer who slaughtered prostitutes and mutilated their bodies, who eluded capture and gained a grisly but lasting fame by doing so.
Rumbelow examines the murder-victims (as well as a few cases mistakenly thought to be victims of the Ripper).
Finally, he glances at the enduring effect of the Ripper legend on literature, television and film.
This book might not contain the most contemporary Ripper research, but, for beginners, it's a good place to start.
The last time I read this unsensational guide to Jack the Ripper I was a, no doubt quite morbid, teenager.
Originally published in 1975, former police officer Rumbelow sifts his way through the evidence in a way that is dispassionate and avoids outlandish theories (which makes it somewhat odd that the introduction to my edition is by Colin Wilson, a man always fond of outlandish theories.
This is not a book to solve the Ripper case, but instead possibly the best compilation of evidence and theories to exist.
We all have those family members who like to lumber you with things once they find out about your interest.Well this book came from my aunt when she found out about my interest in forensic psychology.
It is educational (even if it is not the kind of topic you would want to teach at school) and an interesting read.Whilst not my usual I rather enjoyed reading the details of this book.
This book was recommended to me by an odd elderly man (who seemed to know a little too much about serial killers) that I met in the True Crime section at a used book warehouse.
I took the book home and asked my husband what he knew about the serial killer.
This book gets down to the facts of the case and presents some of the many popular theories over the years, but also disproves them.
It's the mystery of Jack the Ripper that keeps this case popular to this day.
Great book!! Made me want to keep reading even when I had no time. Lots of information but told in an entertaining way!
Rumbelow instead presents all the evidence impartially and discusses each suspect impartially and points out flaws in the case against each one and facts that lead towards them.
As a former London police officer and long-time Ripper historian, Rumbelow not only presents all available evidence, he is responsible for a great deal of it being found.
In presenting the suspects and the evidence, Rumbelow realizes that there will probably never be a definitive answer to the identity of Jack the Ripper.
Pinpointing exactly why I couldn't finish this book is difficult because I have read Jack the Ripper histories twice the length of this one, and been as absorbed as if I was reading an action-packed, edge-of-your-seat, nail-biting, hair-yanking thriller.Somehow, Donald Rumbelow here managed to remove that sense of suspense and horror I have encountered in other Jack the Ripper works.
It felt like I was reading a technical manual, actually.
But in the end, I just couldn't do it.
Rumbelow managed to do the opposite of absorbing me...
This book is not as good as Philip Sugden's wonderful The Complete History of Jack the Ripper. It was written in the 1970s and is dated as a result; much new information has come to light since then. It also has some inaccuracies, for example repeating the old fable of Mary Kelly's pregnancy. But it was still a worthwhile read for its detail. I particularly enjoyed the section on the various improbable suspects people suggested, something which was missing from Sugden's book. This is a worthy addition to any Ripperologist's shelf, I should think.
I first read this book when I was 12 years old. Checked it out of the Scenic Regional Library every summer after that until I went to college. Visited London with my parents in the 1990's and took the Jack the Ripper pub crawl. Guess who was the guide????? Yes, Donald Rumbelow! I was thrilled. Great memory.
Really informative. At times, perhaps, a bit too informative. It gave me nightmares. I highly recommend it for anyone with an interest in the subject. It does not provide the answer, but asks a lot of questions, and shows the flaws in many of the myths.
Clear and concise, a book which deals with what can be confirmed, but also shows how some can be discounted.
It's not a bad read if you're interested in beginning to look into this case and get some bearings on an overview of all the different theories and sorts of questions you have to ask about these things, but I still feel that this isn't the definitive go-to Ripper book that could be out there.
I'm reading Phillip Sugden's uber-famous and well respected "Complete History" of Jack the Ripper next, so perhaps that one will do the trick.

É incrível imaginar que, passados 130 anos dos assassinatos em Whitechapel, as pessoas ainda se interessam pelo caso de Jack, O Estripador. Donald Rumbelow, autor do livro “Jack, O Estripador: A Investigação Definitiva Sobre O Serial Killer Mais Famoso Da História” (Editora Record) define bem essa questão ao apontar que jamais se encontrou um culpado para os crimes que abalaram Londres no final do século 19, e isso permite que qualquer pessoa aponte seu próprio fim para a história. Resenha: https://literaturapolicial.com/2018/0...
The book is a good starting point for anyone wanting to study the subject of Jack The Ripper. Rumbelow lays out the known facts, he covers the discoveries of the bodies, the police investigation at the time and the press coverage. He includes details of known suspects though he doesn't speculate on who the killer might be. For me the most fascinating part of the book is the background it gives of the poorer side of Victorian life in London, in particular of the East End.
I didn't much about Jack the Ripper, mostly what he was famous for, the crime and that he was never caught.
While reading this I was instantly hooked, I felt like I was in Whitechapel, in England.
Not only that I felt I was there, I also felt like I in the investigation.
Donald gives a great insight into the murders and theories.
The theories/suspects is what makes this whole story suspenseful.
The details of the scene, crime are very gruesome, there are even photos and sketches of what they visualized.
If you have interest in non-fictional crime story, this is a book for you.
After an extremely strong opening chapter -- its description of Victorian London is simply superb -- I quickly found myself drowning in details, names, theories, and counter-theories... and more details. As someone new to the topic, I needed a chapter-length introduction that provided an overview before delving into the (admittedly) difficult-to-write narrative. Unusually, I abandoned it halfway through.
A very good account of everything! One of the best I have read.
RipperThis was an interesting read. Much more realistic than Patricia Cornwell's book on the events. This book doesn't focus on just 1possibility but the many possibilities.
Not the best Jack The Ripper book but it was certainly educational.
A book that may or may not uncover the real truth, about the famous serial killer, Jack the Ripper.
i like the research that the writer and the evidence that the writer and include picture that a bonus point.
A fair-minded, adequately-written summary of the Whitechapel murders, written by a former policeman who brings that expertise to an analysis of the evidence and the main suspects.
The very workmanlike nature of the prose, and the entirely-unnecessary final chapter that tells about numerous 20th-century killers-of-women (for no discernable reason and in excessive detail) almost made me mark this down to 3 stars.
Ultimately, though, Rumblelow's willingness to look at the evidence dispassionately--rather than twisting or discarding things to suit some particular pet theory--kept the book in the 4-star range for me, on account of how unexpectedly rare that sort of objective approach is taken in Ripperology.
The results were quite impressive.Jack the Ripper is one of those cases that, despite the fact that there have been far bloodier unsolved crimes, both before and especially after, the general public cannot seem to ever stop talking about for long.
In fact, my only problem with this book was the sometimes maddening way in which Rumbelow refuses to pass judgment on that which he gives the reader.
The more things change...Rumbelow divides the book into sections, starting with the facts surrounding the murders, and proceeding to the letters, the recriminations, the suspects, literary Rippers, and of course, a few famous cases that imitate the original crime--frequently with bloodier results.
For one thing, Philip Sudgen has proved that and for another...let's just say I have read fuller accounts of all aspects of the Jack the Ripper case on the Casebook forums and website.Donald Rumblebow barrels through the basics of the murders, stating "facts" which are either false or misleading.
The way this is written, it makes you think Stride isn't a victim and not because of the evidence Rumblebow presents but because you've probably forgotten about her by the time she comes up again!Rumblebow is at his best talking about the social conditions and the history of the Metropolitan police (though I'd be lying if I said I accepted everything he said - knowing how loose he is with the Ripper facts I find it difficult to accept anything he says on face value).
And when he talks about the suspects, he points out flaws in many would be Rippers.There are two things that Rumbelow does wrong in this version of the book.
Whilst I understand that he is trying to argue that our contined fascination for this particular serial killer can lead down a very dark and depraved path for some, Rumbelow spends too many pages on murderers who are have nothing to do with Jack the Ripper.In conclusion, I would recommend this as a must read for any Ripperologist and for anyone with a passing interest in the case.
I must begin by saying that I wasn't sure I really wanted to read this book.
The beginning was a little tough as I knew little to nothing about Jack the Ripper or the streets of London where his killings took place.
He begins by setting the stage and describing what London, and more specifically, Whitechapel was like just before the murders began taking place.
The author describes each of the suspects and how they could have been Jack the Ripper.
I would have given it 5 stars, but there were a lot of times the author assumed the reader's knowledge of the streets of London.
He also does an excellent job of debunking many of the more far fetched theories and suspects.I have the hardback of his first edition of this book and formed a lot of my ideas about the case from that book.
When I read other articles or books on the case, they did not seem as sound as authoritative as Mr Rubelow's book.
He does not disappoint with the update.While Mr Rumbelow has his own suspect, he admits that we will not likely ever know the true perpetrator.
