https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53179.Abandon_the_Old_in_Tokyo
Stories from the street...everyday people dealing with the pain and disappointment that we all must face throughout life.
"Abandon The Old in Tokyo" is Tatsumi's second collected edition from Drawn & Quarterly and shows a marked shift in tone from the dark, satirical humour in "The Push Man" to a much darker worldview in this book.
The title story is about a young man, torn between a life with his fiancee and a more restricted life looking after his invalid mother.
"The Hole" features a young woman whose body has been ravaged by plastic surgery gone wrong and gets her revenge on men, one man at a time, keeping them in a hole until they die.
Wow. I guess my mind is slipping away.But the book, a collection of powerfully drawn and written manga from an alternative Japanese artist, is something that I do strongly recommend.
While some may not find the artwork "compelling" or very intricate, the figures and backgrounds are there to push the story forward, as most good graphic tales do.
The author draws his protagonists in fairly plain and similar fashion for each tale, but that does not detract from the way it captures our attention and holds it firmly.There are eight different tales in this collection along with an introduction and interview with the artist.
This series of graphic short stories seem to be connected by a similar character - a man lost in society.
These male characters all have feelings, urges, dreams and all but somehow they always seem to come up short.
It is only through the unexpected chance that they find anything that takes them away from their daily misery.
What takes them away is not the women in their lives: the mothers are whores; the girlfriends, fiancees and wives are all disappointed in the men and constantly nag them.
What they find momentarily is a life away from what they've known.
Part of the series on Japanese daily life by TATSUMI Yoshihiro that also includes Push Man and Good-Bye, Abandon the Old in Tokyo is a collection of short stories depicting Japan probably just after the war (the dread, the sacrifice of everyday salary men for the sake of re-growing the economy, etc.) The topics included here are drawn as "gekiga" (realistic drama), so by no means "easy"; they also include some of the really eccentric parts of the series.Tatsumi focuses on the lives of working class outcasts, which he depicts in realistic, if slightly edgy and extremely pessimistic, circumstances.
The sordid reality of the characters is very tangible in Tatsumi's work; however, it is balanced with light humor.
Tatsumi's perspective is spot on, and his eye serves as a perfect record of humanity's destruction, as well as occasional glimpses of beauty, as shown in this series of oftentimes-strange stories.
Delving into the deeper characters of people and how they cope, no matter how strange or repulsive, at the end of the day, it shows that it is man's survival that is important.
Ik blijf een sucker voor dit soort macabere verhalen over geperverteerde, vrouwenhatende loners. Schitterend hoe Tatsumi het grootstedelijke Tokyo van z'n tijd tot leven brengt met sfeerplaten waarop alles herrie maakt en individuen in de anonimiteit verdwijnen tussen de beklemmende mensenmassa's- walgelijke pulp, maar met een onverwachte schoonheid. Het titelverhaal is voor mij een van de hoogtepunten van de bundel.
One of the points he makes is that there's a certain kinship between these stories and the work of some of the American underground comics artists of the period: Robert Crumb, Gilbert Shelton, Spain Rodriguez, Trina Robbins, etc.
Tatsumi denies such an influence, but it was probably just generally in the air at the time as it's not too difficult to point to trends in movies and TV from the same era that echo the tone of these stories.
In general, this is some fine work, very different from the typical manga that are published in English.
The fact that they are all in black and white also contributes to a feeling of drabness and sleaziness that brilliantly conveys the underbelly of Japanese society.
It's impossible to sum up the narrative of any of these stories without doing them some discredit - they are too subtle and too much is conveyed in the intersection between the drawings and the words.
It reminds me slightly of other Japanese novels I have read where as much is summed up by what is not said as by what is.
However, this collection of shorter graphic stories by Tatsumi is the first work I've read by him and it has greatly appealed to me.I love how there are always background sounds and noises in almost all of his panels.
And above all, I love how he doesn't force a set story onto his characters but instead lets them take shape as seamlessly as it happens in our own drifting lives.There's so much more of his work that I still have to read, but it is always encouraging when your first interaction with an author is so very gratifying.
Dude. Dark.
Simple and short, dark and very human.
It shows a gekiga story telling style (alternative, underground, not mainstream) which I really appreciate because I've been a follower of alternative comics published in the U.S. Now that I found out that they have these kinds of mangas has broaden my reading choices.Furthermore, I agree with Adrian Tomine ( a well known alternative comics writer) during his interview with Mr. Tatsumi in the question an answer portion in the book, that a lot of people have a limited point of view with mangas wherein they have this perception that it caters mostly or only to young readers and fantasy/ adventure fanatics.
Wherein experiences and emotions connect people from one another.I would definitely recommend this bookTo all alternative comic readers.
If this anthology and its companion  The Push Man and other stories are any indication, here's Tatsumi's basic plot idea, repeated in endless variations.
About half the time the catharsis is a violent retaliation, the other half entails his death or other escape.I have little idea from whence this tawdry little idee fixe derives, and frankly, I don't really care.
The author is incredibly prolific and only beginning to see publication in English language-translated works (entailing painstaking re-paneling, as the originals were drafted with Manga's typical right-left orientation!), so if you have had a different experience, by all means please share.Otherwise, if new to Tatsumi, well...
"Abandon the Old Tokyo" is a collection of eight short stories Yoshihiro wrote during his prime.
Its stories provide an unflinchingly honest expose on the private lives of ordinary, working-class men living in the hustle and bustle of Japan’s thriving metropolis that will more often than not leave the reader disquieted, contemplative, morally troubled and a little haunted.
Yoshihiro’s characters abandon their loved ones, commit unspeakable acts, lose their sense of humanity and spend the rest of their lives mourning it.
This makes these stories feel all the more tragically profound and resonant as one watches the personal lives of these painstakingly ordinary, deeply flawed individuals unravel quietly and effortlessly.
Some of the stories ended a little too obliquely for me to follow what the intent was (Forked Road, The Washer, to a lesser extent Beloved Monkey).
The generic working class character face got to be a little frustrating after a while, giving the impression that you were reading the same story again and again.
The under-conceived female characters could be significantly frustrating though.
In all, pretty interesting and bleak stories of industrializing Japan seen from wonderfully marginal perspectives.
Passionate and interestingly drawn (except for a few recurrent generic lead character types), fascinating experiments in naturalistic storytelling.

My second short stories magna by Tatsumi.
I didn't think he could get any darker than Good-bye.
I was so very wrong.
The writing is very minimalistic but the story boards are so powerful.
Everyone feels subhuman and unlovable I can really relate.
I don't know if that is good or empathetic.
I learned that he passed earlier this year and that depresses me because I so thoroughly enjoy his drawings and writing.
He makes me feel nostalgic for a Japan I've never ever seen or can fathom.
This is all I can really say about these stories.
Maybe I'm missing something here, but I thought this book would give me more of an insight into post-war Japan. It succeeds in showing some of the underbelly of life, but I found the stories repetitive and annoyingly misogynistic. Nearly all of the main characters in the stories (all helpless, distraught men) blame their problems in some way or another on women. Adrian Tomine is supposedly really influenced by Tatsumi's work, but I'd rather read Tomine any day. At least he offers a bit of redemption in his stories.

I'm having a shitty day thanks to this book.Don't let the simple art style deceive you into thinking this is a simple book.
Don't let the slightly disturbing title trick you into thinking this is a slightly disturbing book.
This damn thing hits hard in places you never knew you could feel pain.This is a collection of short stories in manga form from the 1970's.
This book also has a scene I can't believe any editor and publisher could ever approve.
It wasn't graphic and I think that's the problem.
Let's leave it at that to keep this spoiler free.This is a sad book.
Aside from the titular piece, this volume seems to me to be Tatsumi's dregs. Drawn and Quarterly's other Tatsumi collections are much better.
This installment was another great one with art that you just had to sit and drool over for a moment before getting on with the stories.
a few took a bit of time to fully sink in...The title story was, I think, the most disturbing.
I think the main thing about these stories is that they don't just -think- about doing something, they go ahead and do it.
yes, his mother is not mine and she did some things worth the guy's rage, but...
I also like how it brings to mind how one's health can get screwed up when in the wrong field / way of life.
Well, maybe it's more of a drunken great uncle that used to work for Disney but then things started to come out about what he does on the weekend, where he goes, which stores he is seen going into, that kind of thing.
My wife picked this up for me on a library trip (we've stopped buying books, that economy will get ya!) and I really enjoy the deep human emotion mixed with that intrinsic messed up-ness that I have come to identify with Japanese city culture.
Written in the 60's and 70's this is a very grim portrayal of what happens when the human soul is subjugated to the needs of a growing economy.
I picked this up after watching Tatsumi, the film dedicated to Yoshihiro Tatsumi.while Tatsumi presents a wide variety of gekiga, aka manga/comics that aren't mainstream, I didn't really enjoy Tatsumi's work because it was too dark for me.
the stories told within Abandon the Old in Tokyo are well-told with a distinct drawing style but I just felt like I needed a shower afterwards...as far as classic manga goes, I still think Osamu Tezuka>everyone else.the stories within Abandon the Old in Tokyo are very gritty and none end with a distinctly happy conclusion.
yet, the stories are very realistic and you can tell Tatsumi dug in the deepest dirt to create these unfortunate stories.
I'm open to the fact that maybe I "missed" the major themes or just "didn't get it." Although many have hailed Tatsumi a master, this collection of tales was too disjointed for me.
Sometimes the transition from one panel to another, in the same tale, was jarring and distracting.
Tatsumi admits to drawing all his main characters deliberately with the same face, but I found the tactic a little lazy and very frustrating since each man was supposed to be unique.
I did appreciate the perversions of the stories and the examination of down-trodden lives, but the execution fell short.

I can appreciate these stories on a certain level- they were created far before their time, and helped to form indie Japanese comics into what they are today.
There is a certain dark humor present in them, and the drawing style is cartoon-ish without being childish, which can be difficult to pull off.
Tatsumi is definitely a talented author, and stories like "Man in a Hole" were haunting and thought provoking.
Yet, too many of them were inconclusive, too dry, or lacking structure.
This book is a pretty good read, though, and helpful in understanding the growth of the medium in Japan.
I can understand why Tatsumi's early work is historically important for its attention to the unglamorous details of city life, and I still want to give "A Drifting Life" a chance, but Tatsumi's storytelling here, for all its skill at evoking a certain claustrophobic loneliness, often has a bludgeoning quality and a disturbing undercurrent of misogyny. Art needs to attend to buried lives, but do they all have to be those of underground /men/?
I've been a fan of Tatsumi's GNs that take a bleak and hard look at Japanese society. In this series of short stories, he tells us tales of men and women who feel trapped in bleak lives because of family obligations, hidden desires, thirst for revenge and social expectations. He exposes the repression his characters live under. If you want Disney-type GNs, this is not for you. If you want to look under the glossy surface of a culture, dive in.
