https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8492768-left-neglected
So I conceived an evil scheme: I would buy a book I was only mildly interested in (Lisa Genova's Left Neglected), read it, and then return it.
A problem arose.Lisa Genova's book is...really good.
(Thank you for that, Lisa Genova!
At one point, Sarah's husband is urging her to "look left" and she asks him to describe the room to her, which he does.
But also, really well done, Lisa Genova!
Left Neglected is fast-moving, intellectually engaging, emotionally powerful, and really got me thinking about my own tendency to think there is only "one best way" to navigate the world.
I was sympathetic to her story of brain damage and the consequential loss of attention to her left side but her condition (and the book) never got better and the adjustments she made weren't really the stuff or drama, or even much improvement.
I probably would have gone on thinking it was an all-or-nothing kind of disorder - if you have it you're doomed forever never to know that the left side of the world (and yourself) exists if I hadn't read V.S. Ramachandran's Phantoms in the Brain: Probing the Mysteries of the Human Mind.
Now Sarah must climb an entirely different mountain; one that doesn't detail spread sheets or coworkers, but regaining half of her entire world.In Driver's Education today, my teacher had students wear vision-impairing goggles and attempt to pass a mock sobriety test.
Even worse, what if I lost half of my whole vision irrevocably?That is what Sarah must deal with, a frightening disorder called Left Neglect.
She goes from being averse to wasting even a minute of the day, and then being forced to receive help while doing daily tasks such as dressing and eating.I not only learned about Left Neglect by reading this book, but the effect it has on people.
What worked so well was how the book was told from Alice's POV - and you see how she first is able to recognise what is happening to her, and her recognition of how it is effecting those around her, until gradually the condition takes over and so that awareness begins to disintegrate.
Here, in Left Neglect, hard-working coffee addict supermom Claire takes her eyes off the road one second too long and has a devastating car crash that results in brain damage, leaving her with the condition known as Left Neglect - she is no longer aware of the left side of the world.
Left Neglected is another medical novel by Lisa Genova set in a fictional town called Wellmont (really Belmont Massachusetts).
Sarah Nickerson, a career-driven Harvard MBA HR consultant, gets in a car accident which leaves her with Left Neglect.
A brain injury where the victim's mind cannot identify the left side of her body or surroundings.
Sarah does not do well in her new situation, but you can't fell much sympathy as she is not a likable character.This was a book club choice and a disappointment.
I very much enjoyed Lisa Genova's Inside the O'Briens and would recommend reading this instead of Left Neglected.3 out of 5 stars
DNFI stopped reading this at a little under the half way mark.
It's terrible.
The minute she regains consciousness, after surgery and being unconscious for eight days, she starts to worry about her hairy legs and chin hairs..."I stroke my chin, expecting to feel my Little Pig beard, but touch only smooth skin.
My leg feels like a farm animal, which suggests I haven’t shaved in at least a week,..."Really??I don't know if the book improves in the second half and I don't particularly care enough about Sarah to bother finding out.I loved "Still Alice" but this was a big disappointment.
I didn't find this book as powerful or influential as Genova's other two books, Still Alice and Inside the O'Briens, in fact the medical tragedy theme is starting to become quite a repetitive and predictable pattern, but I still love this author's prose and the way she captures everyday life shattered by the unthinkable.
This book definitely opened my eyes and taught me about this condition which I previously had no idea about.
It was interesting to hear about the main character, Sarah, both before and after her accident and seeing the impact that her condition had not only on herself but upon the people around her, too.
The whole book was interesting and although there weren't any 'cliff hangers', I felt compelled to keep reading on, simply because of the subject and the simple writing.
I look forward to more of Genova's writing and she's definitely an author I'd recommend to those who enjoy novels by authors such as Jodi Picoult.
I found the topic of this book, that is the disability suffered by the main character, to be very interesting indeed and some of her problems and therapies were fascinating.However I found I could not like her at all and this detracted from my pleasure in the book. There was a good story in there which kept me going to the end but I can't say I enjoyed all of it. It was okay but not one of the better books I have read this year so far.
Every morning Sarah is always in a hurry trying to get the children ready for school in between making their breakfast and their lunches to take to school.
Then it's a mad dash out the door to get them to school on time.One morning whilst taking the children to school, Sarah takes her eyes off the road for a split moment.
Before she knows what's happening, Sarah is in a terrible accident an accident that will alter her life forever.
Sarah is left with a terrible brain injury after the accident.
This is an astonishing story about how quickly your life can change in an instant.
Sarah had an accident that left her with a rare and severe brain injury that changed her life.Firstly, I must say that I’ve never heard of this type of brain injury before reading this book.
Once I realised the severity of this disability, all thoughts were racing though my mind about the potential danger a person can face.
When you see/read the little progress that Sarah’s made and how far she’s come from the time of the accident to the present, it is really inspirational.
I also thought it would be well-written, as the author holds a PhD in Neuroscience and could provide a lot of detail.
If I wanted to read page after page of a crappy blog written by a whiny, entitled robot I would've just gone to Wordpress and searched on "Jimmy Choo" or whatever the name of that impressive home-espresso-machine contraption you wasted my time describing is.There was one plotline in the entire book, it was repetitive, and it involved following a whiny, ungrateful, unlovable lady through her barely-emotional journey through recovering from an *intense brain injury*.
That goodness never came.Books like this are why I don't read a lot of fiction.
I'm so glad I read this book! I learned things I knew 'nothing' about!!! WOW!!! What an interesting story. I'm going to have to read 'all' books that Lisa Genova writes. (she picks very interesting topics) --Her stories feel 'real' because they are 'medical' type 'historical' fiction. Fascinating --human heart spirit! I love her small books! (lasting in remembering!)What's next? :)
Working from an assumption that the brain matches sensory input to a number of expected templates, we gain some understanding of how the patient is not aware of the deficit until it is brought to her attention.
(Her drawing only has one eye, and the food on the left side of her plate is uneaten).
Whether they work in hourly rather than career-track jobs, or are stay-at-home moms, everyone will empathize with Sarah: “Fourteen miles in seventy-eight minutes.
We never see Charlie's ADD through his or his parent's eyes, as an experiential phenomena, until Sarah and Charlie spend time “teaching” each other to read.
This book was loaned to me with a glowing recommendation. I found the plot familiar and predictable, and thought the main character mentioned her cherished Harvard MBA with absurd frequency. That said, I recognize the broad appeal of pulp chick lit, and expect to see the Hollywood edition advertised soon.
تصور دنیای بدون سمت "چپ" شاید ساده به نظر بیاد...
که طوری نیست، هنوز سمت "راست" هست و همین میتونه کافی باشه.
اما حقیقت اینه که ما هیچ ایده ای از دنیای بدون چپ نداریم.
"Remember to look left."  سارا در کار و زندگیش موفق به نظر میاد، یه شغل خوب با حقوق خوب داره و تقریبا تمام وقت در اختیار شغلشه...
زندگیش رو وقف کارش کرده و گاهی فقط برای گفتن شب به خیر به همسر و سه فرزندش میتونه کنارشون باشه، اما نیازی نمیبینه تا این وضع رو تغییر بده و از اینکه از تمام قابلیتهاش کاملا استفاده میکنه راضی به نظر میاد
زندگی‌ش رو وقف کارش کرده و گاهی فقط برای گفتن شب به خیر به همسر و سه فرزندش می‌تونه کنارشون باشه‌، اما نیازی نمیبینه تا این وضع رو تغییر بده و از اینکه از تمام قابلیت‌هاش کاملا استفاده می‌کنه راضی به نظر میاد.کتاب برام به سه قسمت تقسیم شد...
قسمت اول حول معرفی شخصیت سارا، زندگی عادی و‌ روزمره‌ش، سختی‌ها و شلوغی‌ش می‌چرخه.در قسمت دوم یه تصادف اتفاق میفته؛ سارا طی این تصادف دچار آسیب مغزی میشه و درک‌ش ‌رو از دنیای سمت چپ به طور کامل از دست میده.
Left Neglected was a very fitting title for this novel by Lisa Genova and has a very powerful message that we all need to slow down and realize what we are doing as it can be changed or taken away from us so quickly.
Lisa Genova has done a wonderful job of telling the story of Left Brain Neglect which I didn't even know existed until I read this novel.
The storyline was executed very well which I thought was more about Sarah's recovery and the changes that entails to dealing with her brain injury.I read this one because of the author as I really enjoyed her other novel, Still Alice.
This book was interesting. I didn't find it as gripping as "Still Alice" (which is one of my favourite books) but it was a good story. Perhaps I would have enjoyed it a bit more if I had waited to read it as I have a family member dealing with the effects of trauma to the brain and I am sensitive to the topic. Still, I would definitely recommend this one to everyone who enjoyed Genova's first book "Still Alice".
The story stays with me and is one I recommend frequently.When a first book is so good, can a second outing hold up?
While driving, one moment of distraction finds Sarah tragically injured in a car accident that leaves her with a syndrome called Left Neglect and questioning whether she'll ever recover to the person she once was.
Told in the first person, Sarah's handling of this major stumble in her life plan with the question of recovery is explored in the balance of the book.I'm pleased to say Lisa Genova has done it again, providing an intriguing look at a little known medical syndrome while giving us a good story.
The first 60 pages reads very much like a Chick-Lit book, it is light and funny.
I was absolutely hooked on page one.To be honest I would have been totally happy to just keep reading about Sarah's life, it was that enjoyable.
But suddenly my happy little chick-lit book is bringing me to tears as my beloved Sarah is trapped in a car.I am not really saying that I loved this book more that "Still Alice", they are both equally great.
Although I loved it, I couldn't say "Yeah, I know how you feel, I've been there"."Left Neglected" is about an average woman, wife and mother, just like myself.
Why the review was under comments I am not sure??
I fell in love with Genova's book Still Alice and was hopeful that I would be as enthralled with this one.
I had never heard of this "odd" brain injury, and she again tells the story from the view of the person struggling.
I felt the ups and downs, how each person in the family dealt with a "new Sarah" was great.
Loved the relationship with her Mother but more so how she came to bond with her son Charlie.
Genova writes her characters "real" and with so much dignity!
A novel about a woman who loses her perception of her left side after a car accident.
Er...that's it, save to say that it's not as interesting as I've just made it sound.
This reads like the droning, self-pitying rehabilitation memoir of a nobody.
You lost your left side.
We got it.
Thanks.
And now you're trying to get better.
Why another 300 pages saying the same thing over and over and over and over...?
No insights, no progression, no story, no characters worth investing in; only self-indulgent, sloppily written claptrap.
Please, pity us.
Please, pity us.
It also resulted in some drastic life changes, reconnecting with her mother and finding joy in her capabilities.While I enjoyed this story, and found the concept of "Left Neglect" fascinating, it wasn't nearly as compelling as Still Alice and Every Note Played.
I didn't find this as immersive as Still Alice and Every Note Played.The dream sequences, (while I understand why they were included) felt a little superfluous and I found myself skipping over them.
It was apparent from the story line that Sarah was under an enormous amount of stress and the dream sequences, I felt, were unnecessary.
This is only one step elevated from being what I call an "issue" book, as the characters seem to be slightly more than profiles taken from the textbooks devoted to the issue, given names and bodies, and little else.
On the other hand, in order to emphasize most thoroughly the impact of the medical condition she's chosen to explore, Genova has given us a main character is who is almost unbearably annoying.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Another amazing book from Lisa Genova.I found this review and the media reviews on BookBrowse.
Media Reviews"Neuroscientist Genova once again personalizes an actual disabling brain condition to create irresistibly readable and moving fiction." - Booklist "More accessible than her somber first book, which dealt with early-onset Alzheimer's, the central condition causes readers to wonder what brain disease she will think of next." - Publishers Weekly "This is a positive novel about hope and strength that should find a market with those who appreciate contemporary women's fiction and readers who either are coping with brain disorders or have family members with these conditions." - Library Journal4 stars
Another great book from Genova. A split second of texting while driving changes everything. The main character suffers a brain injury called Left Brain Neglect, the book sees everything through her eyes. Truly fascinating.
Having read Still Alice, I see the pattern to Genova's books -- a capable protagonist is abruptly handicapped by an uncontrollable neurological phenomenon and must adjust.
I appreciated the opportunity to learn about left neglect and to see the many ways in which it affects the sufferer, and thought Genova did a sensitive job of exploring some of the feelings and experiences of losing your capabilities.Where I thought the novel fell short -- not intolerably so, but definitely short -- was in some of the characterization and multidimensionality of relationships.
رغم أنه لا يمر يوم إلا وأقرأ فيه مقالاً أو نصاً أو حتى بحثاً باللغة الإنجليزية لأغراض دراسية بحتة، إلا أن هذه أول رواية إنجليزية أقرؤها بلغتها الأصلية، نسخة كاملة غير مبسطة، قراءة كاملة من الغلاف للغلاف.
الجديد بالنسبة إليّ أن المؤلفة، ليزا جينوفا، وهي حاصلة على الدكتوراه في علم الأعصاب من جامعة هارفارد، قد أبدعت حقاً في وصف أعراض وتداعيات حالة الإصابة بـ Left-Neglect.لكونها حالة مرضية غريبة، لم أسمع بها قبلاً أو قرأت عنها في أي مكان، كان ذلك ضماناً كافياً لإتمام هذه الرواية حتى آخر صفحة.هذا كتاب أثير.
لأنه جاءني هدية عزيزة من مدينة لندن، ولأنه أعاد إلي ذلك الشعور الثمين بالدهشة، أمام هذه الحالة الدماغية العجيبة..
I sat in my car listening to Diane Rehm interview Lisa Genova about her new book.
Not long after reading this book I had shoulder surgery and had a pain block in my neck.
For 24 hours after surgery I literally could not feel, move, or recognize my left arm and shoulder.
I feel much more educated, more inclined to think twice before judging someone who seems less "normal." I don't ever want to be so busy or distracted that I jeopardize my stable, boring life with my average, but wonderful, family.
I have just finished five or six works of literary fiction and any other novels of ordinary fiction following those might have paled in comparison but LEFT neglected stood firm as an excellent novel.
I admit to feeling exhausted as I read of Sarah's hectic and high-powered day pre-accident and felt equally encumbered as she struggled with LEFT neglect.
Genova manages to impart an informed but not not overly clinical story of a woman whose life has been irrevocable changed in a split second on an ordinary day's drive to work.
