https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59856.Remembrance
They know when they arrive in the states there will be turmoil.His mother has a plan that she hopes Saraina will on board for.The book is divided into parts: early years and the survival years.
After so much pain and sorrow she's had to get a job and watch her brother in law go to war.Each of the parts have traumatic things occur and it makes the characters stronger as their lives go on.Also the oldest daughter's life is highlighted as well.
Serena, a young Italian Princess, marries Brad, a rich soldier. His mother disowns him because she had political ambitions for him. His younger brother Teddy stays close. When Brad is killed in Korea, they are left destitute. Teddy finds modeling work for Serena so she moves to NY with her daughter. Serena eventually marries again and has another daughter, Charlotte. Her new husband is a heroin addict and ends up killing her. The older daughter goes to live with Brad's older brother and wife, t
Serena, a young Italian Princess, marries Brad, a rich soldier.
When Brad is killed in Korea, they are left destitute.
Teddy finds modeling work for Serena so she moves to NY with her daughter.
Serena eventually marries again and has another daughter, Charlotte.
Her new husband is a heroin addict and ends up killing her.
The older daughter goes to live with Brad's older brother and wife, the younger daughter goes to live with the second husband's brother in Greece.
When Teddy and his wife have a baby, all the memories flood back and she decides to reunite with here sister.
Danielle Steel, capturing the hearts of readers since 1802, with over 567643 best selling novels. Sweeping sagas of brutal realism and heartwarming tales of love and family. With over 34566 of her wonderful books adapted for television movies, Steel has killed brain cells across the globe with her mind numbingly delicious stories of love and life. Danielle Steel is like crack to me. As terribly far fetched and melodramatic this story was, I enjoyed every minute of it. I even stooped so low as to care about the characters and actually feel something while reading it. I shamelessly loved Remembrance.
There are a few books that you can connect yourself to not even knowing why. This was one such book for me. I remember reading it while traveling and though the beauty outside was so alluring, I could not bring myself to stop reading this book. you have to read it to understand what I am trying to say. =)
If you call this a love story...No, I'm not going to say you're wrong. You're right; so right that it hurts.But I don't like it. *I just spoiled you*
It took me a very long time to finish this book. Which is very weird for me to take so long. I guess I knew what was going to happen... but I’ve finally finished it and let me say.... it is a beautiful, sad, book. It’s a very unique story and oh it was beautifully tragic, but had a wonderful ending. I’m glad I got to finish it. I might have gotten lazy with it, but it deserves it’s 5 stars. Simply wonderful, I’ll never forget this book...
Даниел Стийл е вече клише, трудно поносимо дори и за плажа.Но в по-ранните и романи, преди да се отдаде изцяло на розовия конвейр, има някаква романтика като от старите приказки, която силно въздейства.Та и тук - една истинска принцеса среща своя принц, пардон американски майор, в руините на втората световна война.
Има я и злата вещица, разбира се.
Както и възстановяващият се свят през 50-те от двете страни на Атлантика.
Сладост и горчивина са балансирани, и не натъртва, чете се много леко и е идеалното разтоварващо четиво, което няма да се забрави на следващия ден.Българското издание е доста старичко и се казва “Спомен”.
This story is about a young girl who grows up in France but is sent to the states by her grandmother when war breaks out.
After the war she goes back home to find that her grandmother had passed away and everything is in ruins.
The soldier and Serena fall in love and he takes her back to the states to meet his family but his mother will have none of it.
In the mean time her brother in law falls for her and he promises to take care of her should anything happen to his brother.
I did a lot of crying while reading it; I cried over Serena's platinum blond hair, over Brad's death (he was handsome AND American, and handsome American guys don't die early in romance books), over Teddy's humour and boyish charms, over his unrequited love, and over Vanessa's relationship in the end, which was too fucked up for my then innocent mind.
how can someone be so vile" moments, lots of jealousy and bitterness, lots of crying, and a bajillion "OMG Teddy is so adorable, it's a pity Serena doesn't like him that way" gushing.
Set against World War II, 'Remembrance' is classic Steel.
Serena is an Italian princess who lost everything.
But then she meets a soldier who changes her life and saves her from the devastation of the war.
However, like in many of Steel's novels, our heroine's newfound happiness is short lived and Serena must reinvent herself once again, this time in America.
This is a story of survival in the face of the harshest odds, of excess and loss and the price of happiness.
You'll fall in love with Serena and her daughters in this enchanting, engrossing read from one of the world's best storytellers.
It may sound awful now, but when I was a teenager I kind of adored this book. I have a few similar traits with the main character (minus the tragic bits) and at that time it seemed wildly romantic to relate to a story like this. So sue me, but I still have a soft spot for this book, even if I don't really want to read it again.
Remember pilfering this from my mum's collection of books as a kid and I LOVED IT!!!!! This is the book that truly started my love of all things trashtastic. It was so over the top and in my young eyes incredibly romantic because it was super tragic. Basically the more tragic the love story the more I love it. Pretty much holds true today. Can't remember how many times I read this but I know it was a lot!!!!
This was a wonderful read and lots of crying through out. Love reading your books. Just wan them to go on forever. I've read everything you have written just wish more were made into TV movies like they used to have. Try and make that happen. ThanksLoved everything about this book. Please make more of your books into TV movies like they did years ago. I cried many times reading this book.
(c)1981 Living an aristocratic life and all of a sudden running for her life and hiding. Serena goes through something very tramatic but yet returns when she comes of age and finds that no one is left to greet her. Contains romance, abuse, and a new life in another part of the world away from her homeland. Absolutely a book worth reading.
One of my favorites!It was the first book that I read from Danielle Steel and for sure the best in my opinion!I keep picturing this story as a Hollywood movie, I really love it, so intense and so much goes on!
A story about love, respectThis story was very captivating,had me in tears, a must read for anyone looking for a great story, love it
First few chapters were kind of slow, but by the fifth or sixth chapter I was hooked. Danielle Steel yet again grabbed me, and dragged me into another story. I LOVE HER BOOKS
Danielle Steel at her best, couldn't put it down.One of her best books. Have read them all. Every single one is not put downable! Brilliant reading every time.
Primer libro que leo de esta autora, y no está mal. Distraido. Me gusta el estilo romántico que tiene. leeré alguno más de esta escritora
Letto durante il periodo adolescenziale e anche molto apprezzato. Incredibilmente sensibile e vero.
Goodreads sólo me deja puntuarla con 5 estrellas, pero se merece MUCHAS más.Se va a mi top 100 de novelas favoritas.
Princesa italiana, se casa con militar americano. Tienen una hija y el muere. Ella se convierte en modelo .
A family betrayal leads to 12 year old Serena to be sent to the United States for safe keeping, where she becomes fluent in English, a skill that comes handy later.
Serena makes the bold decision to get a job as a maid in her old home and work alongside Marcella.
Brad is kind of a douchebag in the beginning, and Serena tries to distant himself, at first.
Brad is transferred to San Francisco, where they start a family and live a cozy, happy life.
Then comes Brad's death, more family drama, and a destroyed Serena who has to fend for herself and her daughter almost alone.
Great book
Couldn't wait for each new Danielle Steel book.
A fast-paced ride!Impoverished by World War II, Principessa Serena di San Tibaldo is working as a servant in the Italian palazzo once owned by her family when the Americans liberate the country.
Following a whirlwind courtship and marriage, Serena and Brad return stateside to continue his military career.
Life seems even more perfect with the birth of their daughter Vanessa, but then Brad is killed during the early days of the Korean conflict, leaving Serena with a young child to provide for, and no means of support.
Drawing on the core of strength developed during World War II, Serena parlays her beauty into a modeling career.
1 STARS"Her beloved Italian homeland shattered in the wake of World War II, exquisite Serena, Principessa di San Tibaldo, has nothing left except her name, her ancestry...
and her heart which she gives completely and forever to Major Brad Fullerton.
But not even Brad's ring—or his child—can protect her from the calculating wrath of the powerful Fullerton dynasty, and the woman who will become Serena's bitter enemy.
Sweeping from the war-torn palazzos of Rome to the glittering avenues of Manhattan and the glamorous world of high fashion.
I re read this book because it was one of my favorites and it didn't disappoint.A beautiful young Italian princess and an army officer fall in love.His mother and former fiance treat her horribly while her husband is alive and continue to do so after his tragic death. Many years later when she dies the"hatred" continues towards her daughter.Her daughter blo0cks out her mother's death and knowledge of her baby sister while being raised by her adoring uncle.Many years later a "trigger" occurs and she remembers her mother's daughter and her sister and takes steps to get reaquainted with her.
One of the reasons why I read Danielle Steel's books is because a friend of mine brought a whole lot of them and they're just sitting there at home wanting someone to read them.
The other reason is because I know that there's a happy ending and my expectations are almost always correct in terms of what's going to happen next in the plot, which can be boring when everything you expect to happen happens.
I usually read her books right after a very well written book that usually has overwhelming events or a sad ending.
it talks about a young girl who lost everything in war.her parents were killed,she had to leave the country, and when she came back everything and everyone she once loved was gone....died....up 2 so far,i have learnt that whatever the situation u are in,there will always be the light at the end of the turnel.U have 2be strong for the sake of those that look up to you and never give up.People might look down on you, but dont give them the satisfaction,by doing what they want.believe in yourself,go out there and make yourself happy.
