https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/907668.Wheels_of_Life
دوستانِ گرانقدر، یکی از بهترین کتابها در مورد <چاکرا> این کتاب است... از آنجایی که نمیتوانم به تمام مسائل مربوط به این موضوع بپردازم، بنابراین به نوشتنِ ریویویی مختصر و مفید، بسنده میکنم--------------------------------------------عزیزانم، <چاکرا> در زبانِ سانسکریت به معنایِ چرخ است.. چاکراها مراکزی از انرژی هستند که با چرخشِ خود نیرویِ <پرانا> را در اندام و کالبدهایِ انرژی ساماندهی میکننداکنون باید توضیح کوتاهی در موردِ پرانا بدهم.. پرانا نیز در زبان سانسکریت به معنایِ نیرویِ ز
این چاکراها اندامهای کوچک را کنترل کرده و با غددِ درون ریز در ارتباط هستند**********‎در کل باید بدانیم که برخی عوامل همچون نگرانی و ترس و مسائل دیگر، سببِ بسته شدنِ چاکراها میشوند و ذهن و اندامِ بدن را با مشکل روبرو میسازند‎برای باز کردنِ چاکراها و عملکردِ بهترِ آنها، راه های گوناگونی وجود دارد، که یکی از آنها گوش دادن به آهنگ های آرامش بخش و خاص است ‎یکی از چاکراهایِ مهم و حیاتی، چاکرایِ پنجم یا همان ویشوداها میباشد که ارتباطی میانِ چاکراهایِ پایین بدن و بالای بدن را دارد...
This was my first book on the Chakra system and to be quite frankly it has been one of those books I always go back to look for references My personal opinion is that Anodea Judith, PhD, has done an excellent book, both for the beginner in working and understanding the Chakras as well as the advancedEach chapter is dedicated to a particular Chakra You will learn, the Sanskrit name to each Chakra, it's meaning, location, Element, Function, Inner State, Outer State, Body Parts, color, Mantra sound, Hindu Deity, as well as other deities from other pantheons.
Whether the chakras are actually real or not, the philosophy behind it all provides an interesting conceptual model for the "energies" of life and how they are balanced and expressed. Not only will you figure out your own chakra system, but the book will give you a whole new (and very enlightening perspective) on your relationships, and in fact, this is the best "relationship" book I've read in years (and is not even its primary objective)! A very fun read!
Anodea Judith
Apparently I am now the kind of person who listens to audiobooks about chakras.
If I were to recommend one book on the chakras, this would be it. Inspiring, educational, easy to understand. I'm reading it a 2nd time now, slowly. I'd say this book is what lead me to embark on my chakra project in the first place. I especially love how Anodea teaches how the chakras function in our day to day life.
Absolutely love this book!
Reading this book will change your life.
It has answered so many questions that plagued me for years.
The author does such an exceptional job of explaining the chakras and their relevance to life, love, spirituality and growth.
The last few chapters she links the creation of earth and humanity to each of the chakras using excellent descriptive examples.
I will keep this book close by for the rest of my life as I will need and want to continue to turn to it for reference.
Thanks so much to Carly Brown for recommending "Wheels of Life" to me.
The "bible" of the chakra system. Everything you ever wanted to know about the chakra system but were afraid to ask :-) Incredibly detailed, comprehensive, thorough, deep, useful, practical, and *interesting*. It's the best!
I bought this originally on the Kindle but I liked it so much that I have ordered a print copy to allow for easier referencing.If you have never read anything about chakras before, this book is definitely the place to start.
It provides you with tons of interesting information and insights about the seven major chakras in an easy-to-read and engaging way.
Plus, it also has a couple of chapters exploring the chakra system as a whole (something that most authors don't do), so you get a very holistic approach.
Highly recommended for anyone interesting in learning more about chakras, even if you already have prior knowledge about them.
Very detailed descriptions of each of the 7 major chakras. Judith gives textbook information that reads like a novel. Also provides exercises and instructions for strengthening and balancing the chakras. Loved it!
an expansive and well-written book about chakras, with various how-tos, exercises and guides. the text is easy to understand and a book contains a lot of references to other similar books, which i find very useful. much recommended
Perfectly clear, very well written, and so interesting ! You can't find a better book to learn more about chakras.
This is the first book about Chakras I have ever read, and I was glad it was written in an easy-to-understand manner.
I didn't get as much out of the final chapters - the part about our entire history being based on Chakras lost me - but I learned a lot.I'm not sure how much I plan to incorporate chakra healing into my life, but most of the ideas in the book are practical and easy to apply.
It's well organized and makes a great book to refer back to over and over.
If you've already read Eastern Body, Western Mind, this will be review. This one provides a nice overview of the chakra system -- how to imagine the system, what each chakra influences, etc. The other book gets into the psychology of how our unique system gets developed and I think is more interesting... but this would be a good primer.
Very dense. Reads like an encyclopedia. It has all the info you could ever need or want about Chakras but it could take a lifetime of study to digest and remember all that is in this book. Not a good book for a Chakra beginner.
One of my favorite go to references.
An incredibly practical and informative approach to the Chakra System. I keep this on my desk to refer to whenever I have a question regarding the Chakras and the flow of energy in the body.
A good primer for understanding the chakras
This is hands down the best books the chakra system I have read! Lovely to read with a group!
I enjoyed the yoga and other exercises the author provided after most chapters.
From a selfish point of view, the realization that we are all one dictates that, like the Bodhisattva, we cannot advance alone while others are ailing.
Instead he stays behind to teach.) Like the Bodhisattva, we find we must take the time to heal others as we advance along our path.
It is the very act through which consciousness realizes itself, and is as essential to the spirit as eating and rest are to the body."I plan to read at least one other book by this author.
My wife recently completed a teacher training in Kripalu Yoga and was sharing some of the teaching materials with me.
I couldn't help but notice some of the overlaps with the somatic psychotherapy that I was training in at the time.
I recently reviewed a book on Tantric Yoga, that I found rather disappointing and someone recommended I give Judith's book a chance.
Judith has integrated a vast amount of learning on Yoga and the Chakra system from various Yoga disciplines, with developmental psychology and other spiritual disciplines such as Kabbalah and Jungian theory, and created this integrative masterpiece summarizing the 7 chakra system and the physical, psychological and spiritual implications of working through and balancing these centres.
There's no point rushing this one.
It's not a book to read, it's like an encyclopedia.
It ranges from science, yoga, metaphysics, philosophy and then-some, to describe the Chakra system.This is as detailed as it can get.
And I'm sure there's a lot more to learn.
But within this book itself, you'll always find something you missed the first time.This is decades of knowledge crunched into 400 odd pages.
It will take at least a few months for you to really start grasping, and then a few years to start applying the information to your daily life.Thanking the author for this tremendous work.
Re-read required, at least a dozen times!
This is a comprehensive, approachable, but sophisticated introduction to the chakra system for anyone with some familiarity and a desire to expand one's knowledge.
(Though total beginners could surely connect with the text.) I came to the book with some background (through yoga and yoga teacher training), but my foundation was definitely basic and somewhat vague.
This book provided my first, more integrated understanding of the thinking around the chakra system and its influences on the body, mind, and spirit (and children, relationships, and culture).
Also includes exercises for working with individual chakras, as well as illustrations.
This book takes you to a deep journey through the different Chakra and how they work with each other, and more importantly within ourselves. This manual gives you the spiritual information you need punctuated by more rational examples, such as in medicine, sciences, chemistry and so on. Each Chakra can be opened and balanced by different physical and mental exercises, such as Yoga poses, meditations and so on. I devoured each chapter with so much fascination, that I can only recommend this book. Looking forward to read the other Judith Anodea book about Yoga and Chakras.
Excellent intro to each individual chakra and the chakra system as a whole. Detailed section for each chakra and how they apply to day-to-day life and how they impact what we feel, say and do. A great place to start if you are curious about the chakra system. Very informative but not in a boring "let's take notes" kind of way. Enjoyable read.
I like this book so far. I am half-way through it and even though I may not agree with everything I read, I still rate 4 stars out of 5 because there are many things that I do agree with, and some things that make what I already believe and know become clearer to me. I like the Chakra system and I like this book. Good! :)
Loved it! I have read, listened...thank you Kindle and before long I hope to re-listen to it . The introduction to the Charkra System and the wonderful information shared. The explanation and of course the healing in which the individual can do.I highly recommend the read and re-read. The chapter on the Children is creme of the crop!
This is the best book on the chakra system that I have encountered. I particularly enjoyed the meditations included for each of the chakras and appreciated the vast amount of research the author did to pull together this awesome book that explains the chakras from a variety of different perspectives and traditions.
This was ok... def don't recommend for anyone skeptical of new agey stuff. I hated all the poems & skipped the part at the end about magic. I guess it was ok for just more in-depth chakra stuff, more info that's not scientific, to soak into your psyche if you're working on chakra healing. Her other books are better.
Too much unnecessary information. IMHO.Also too flowery and too poetic for my liking. I skimmed a lot to get to the meat of the information.Still, it was informative and has some good exercises.
