https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12549958-philomel-cottage
The ending is very abrupt, but I liked this little story, so refreshingly different from Agatha's usual style. The ambiguity of the resolution is marvelous, although I'm not sure it was really intended
Description: The recently married Alix Martin is obsessed with a recurring dream of her new husband’s murder.
Each time she can see the murderer clearly, and it’s the mild-mannered man she had previously been engaged to, taking his revenge.
But, what’s worse is that at the end of the dream she thanks the murderer.
Perplexed, Alix tries to calm herself by spending time in the garden of her picturesque cottage.
But her gardener confuses her further by wishing her well on her trip to London—a trip which Alix knows nothing about.
Now Alix is scared: is the gardener imagining things, or is she?A Miss Marple shorty"More mushrooms?"
Well, what the hell was that!? Was that a twist ending? Was it a cliff-hanger? Am I hallucinating? What did I just listen to? Oh, Agatha, why do you do this to me? I really don't know what to think. I definitely enjoyed listening to the story, which was read by Hugh Fraser, but that ending...
A quick intriguing read. One I hadn't read before, so that was cool. Very cool. These mini stories are perfect in between other books :)
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Alex meets Terry and is coaxed to start a business out in the country. Mike Walker's revamped whodunnit with Lizzie McInnerny.
*Read for class.3.75/5I've read this short novella for my paper about the Bluebeard and I loved how the plot of the original was transformed into a short mystery. The reveal was pretty obvious, even if you don't know the fairy-tale, but I still enjoyed it a lot. Plus, the ending made me go "what?" and reread the last couple of paragraphs. Agatha Christie truly is a genius, I love her works, even though I haven't read a lot. Yet.
Really liked it.
it's always unexpected in the end..
Wonderful short mystery!!
Philomel Cottage has been an interesting experience. Different from Agatha Christie's other works, but highly engaging. I loved it.
What was it that I just read! (mindblown)
3.5 stars
I just listened to a BBC adaptation of this story that is perfect, and with a full cast performing the whole thing. Is just as pertinent today as then. Reminds me of a Thurber fairy tale.
Philomel Cottage is bought by Alix and her new husband.
It’s isolated, miles from the village, and she can work peacefully there.But an old flame, Richard, expresses concern about her choice.
‘You know nothing about him’ he argues, and she says they’re in love and Richard should leave her alone.But then… she starts to notice odd things.
And they are very different.(view spoiler)[In both, the new husband has a trail of dead wives.
Old news clippings hidden in his desk suffice for the past version.In the original she kind of frightens him to death.
We know she looked after her mother and worked with Richard for eleven years.
Well sweet damn, I was beginning to think that this was a cliche, "I instantly fell in love with a man with a mysterious past and it turns out he has some dirty secrets," kind of story. But that ending...The plot twist at the very end completely blindsided and impressed me, I thought I had the plot all figured out from the very first sentence and it shocked me. A very suspenseful and tension-filled tale with a brilliant twist at the end.
This was super familiar - I must have listened to an unabridged reading of this short story. The BBC radio adaptation changes (modernizes) some bits, and is slightly confusing as a result. Like what exactly are they doing at the cottage - some kind of startup? If she's the programmer then what is he? What exactly is the reason for their relationship?? But there's a through line that ties it to the original and that aspect is still strong and might make you shiver.
This short story kept me on my toes until the very end. I felt like the foreshadowing followed a natural speed and was obvious enough for any reader to pick up on. I made my friend read this story so I could discuss it with them because I couldn't find anyone online analyzing the ending. I re-read it and still was amused by the ambiguity.
A unusually story by Mrs Christie. This short novella in the The Listerdale Mystery Collection, has a elements of a supernatural. This is lost in the translation of the modern radio dramatization. Your left wondering.....
Loved this short read, great spine-tingling fun! You’ll be asking yourself “what the..” at the end! Enjoy on a chilly night, alone in the dark under a blanket. Though not overtly scary, it will make you wonder...think...question...
Chilly and perfect for the Halloween spirit. Not the best of Christie's work, but certainly worth it and the ending was so unexpected even though I discovered the plot almost halfway through but never saw that ending coming, I loved that!
I'm ashamed to say that I have never read Agatha Christie before this story. The ultimate in the plot thickens. I'm intrigued enough to want to try more of her work.
Slight and not what you expect.
Short, interesting read!
That was amazing but...um... at the end there? What happened? Who did...um...Read this. Explain the ending to me. I may be over thinking this....
Someone needs to explain this story to me.
I have a copy of Philomel Cottage in the "Christie Classics" compilation.
Rating: 4,5 / 5
The kind of short story that twists exactly as you expect and still surprises you a little.
The most boring thing she's ever written. read it in a "Collection of Halloween Stories" and it was a complete waste of my time.
One of the first Agatha Christie's short stories I'm reading. Looking forward to reading more of these..
