https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37796.A_Doll_s_House_and_Other_Plays
Introduction--The League of Youth--A Doll's House--The Lady from the SeaNotes
A Doll's House - Four out of five stars.I really really enjoyed this play if not because it was simply entertaining, then definitely for the early feminism Nora exhibits in the end. We're studying it as a feminist text and I cannot wait to get into detail about it in class! I recommend this to everyone who is interested :)
Ahhhh I believe I have fallen in love with Henrik Ibsen.
This book is my first encounter with Henrik Ibsen, of course I have heard of his name before and about A Doll's House, but never read anything of his until now.
After reading these three plays I am smitten by Ibsen's writing.
You may parrot someone else's words that subtly tricked you into thinking it was your idea or you may walk the streets but you have forfeited your rights for surveillance for so called security, but you're not free unless you exercise your own free will.
Free will is the main theme in these plays, something that people are forgoing in the 21st century.
Well I got my fill of morality for the next couple decades. Was rather good though for a university read.
أول مدخل لي في الأدب النرويجي وأول قراءة للكاتب هينرك إيبسن. ستشهد أثناء قراءة هذه المسرحية عملية الحصول على الحرية الفردية؛ تكمن في صورة انتقال (نورا) من زوجة منقادة ومسلوبة الحق -لا يشغل تفكيرها إلا شكل الفستان الذي سترتديه في الحفلة القادمة- إلى إمرأة مستقلة، كاملة الأهلية. تحدثك هذه المسرحية عن الإنفصال؛ عن امتلاك الشجاعة لهجر من كان يشكل نصفك الآخر.. عندما يصل الكمد ذروته فتخرج تلك القوة الكامنة بداخلك التي تخبرك أن لا شيء يجري كما يجب، وأن الانفصال قد حان وقته.
While reading this during a two week school exploration of masculinity, the power that the play has, is that it made me realize how lucky I am to be a man.
The amount of adversity faced by women in Ibsen's time and even today, just was shocking and eye-opening.
The play was a great complement to our school exploration of masculinity because it showcased the adversity faced by women, but in addition showed how all humans must find themselves before they are to ever help others.
Overall this was a great play/story and would recommend everyone on the planet to read it!
I hadn't read "The League of Youth" or "The Lady from the Sea" before, and I'm so impressed.
Wonderful plays!
He has such a modern way of writing, it's striking.
Or maybe not of writing--perhaps it's thinking, I can't tell.
Also, each character is so very different from the others.
There always seems to be so much more to the character than you ever get to see in the play--a small island, the peak of an oceanic mountain range.
I'll have to read these again in a few years, and see what will have happened by then.
“I must make up my mind which is right – society or I.” A Doll’s House written by Henrik Ibsen and published in 1879.This is without a doubt Ibsen’s most famous play. Set in a single room on Christmas Eve it is a staple mark in European literature. It brings up the hypocritical nature of marriage in the Victorian middle class. This review is a detailed description act by act with my personal thoughts. Act I This is the first look into Nora and Torvald Hemler’s marriage. After arriving from shop
His use of nicknames like “little skylark”, “featherbrain”, and “ducks-and-drakes” (a woman who spends money frivolously) manages to degrade Nora in a cute(?) way that she accepts.
After much talk, Linde, Rank, Krogstad, and Torvald all leave Nora to stay home with the three children.When Nora and the children are playing hide and seek, Krogstad suddenly appears.
Once Mrs. Linde leaves Torvald comes on to Nora but she attempts to refuse.
“You are talking like a child; you don’t understand the world you live in.” Done with the degradation and games, Nora leaves Torvald and her children.“No man would sacrifice his honor for the one he loves” “Thousands of women have.”
I shipped Nora with Dr. Rank so much.
I'd give anything to see Janet McTeer's full performance as Nora. Life is cruel.
This intervention however comes in late and though Krogstad convinced by Mrs. Linde sends another letter to nullify the harm of the first one which had earlier posted revealing all, Nora is forced to contend with her husband's displeasure and face far more hard hitting reality than she could have previously fathomed, forcing her to make decisions she could have never forseen or believed herself capable of making!So much has been written and debated about this play, that I am quite at a loss of what to actually say.
Rather a trial for me, as this isn't really my preferred style, and given the choice, I think I'd rather read Balzac, who at least doesn't make pretensions to artistic worth.
Of these three plays, only Ghosts seems all that well-made; the wonderful turn at the end of A Doll's House might be of interest to literary historians, but it's hard for someone like me (i.e., someone who has read a bit of 20th century drama; also, not unrelated, someone who was never oppressed by 19th century bourgeois norms or an idiot husband) to get enthralled by it.
Of this collection of three plays, I think I liked "The Lady from the Sea" the best. It's about a woman nearly driven to madness by a promise she made as girl to a morally questionable sailor. Both this play and "A Doll's House" are about free will and the urge to exercise in ways that may throw a person's life into disarray. The other play, "The League of Youth", seems to be more about the problems of unchecked ambition with a lack of moral grounding. I'll definitely read more Ibsen if I come across him.
It was really good to see Nora's character development throughout the play. I'm fine with what she did - leaving her husband, children and house. She needs to think of her mental health and her happiness, and not just others.
A Dolls House is a meh version of Anna Karenina.
Pilliars of The Comunity was the only one I had not read before, and it was filled with Ibsen's satire even closer to the surface. A very interesting look into life at the turn of the century.
I am determined to read more Ibsen's plays.
This play starts out on Christmas Eve with the main character Nora Helmer and her husband Torvald.
It is later revealed that for the trip to Italy that had saved Torvald's life, Nora had borrowed a lot of money from Nils Krogstad, a bank clerk working at the same bank as Torvald.
However, when Nils is about to get fired, he threatens Nora that if she doesnt get her husband to let him keep his job, he'll tell Torvald that the Nora had borrowed money from him illegally.
Although Nora tries her best to keep Nils' job, it didnt work and soon everything is exposed.
I read this for school so it was made slightly less enjoyable having to analyze the text, but opposed to other books which have been ruined with studying them too closely, studying this play only helped to gain a better understanding of the story.
Luckily the main character has more substance than first appears.I always make it a point of reading the introduction and found Henrik Ibsen's back story very interesting.
I have not read the "other plays" as we were only studying A Doll's House but I may at some point in the future go back to read them as well.
Ibsen wrote his plays when society was hidebound conservative and some things were given - and his plays, his thinking was like a lightening bolt.
With such lightening bolts - there were others, from time to time - was light thrown on the dark state of the society and the rot at its foundation.
It might be thought the plays are out of date and today we have gone ahead, and there is some truth in that.
And yet the plays are very relevant.
This book contains three of Henrik Ibsen's plays: "A Doll's House", "The Lady from the Sea" and "The League of Youth".
The translation makes them an easy read, but maybe, for nowadays audiences the subjects are a little bit dated (or maybe not so much).
All the three plays are charming and lovely (meaning they hyptonize you to finish them, not that the subjects are light) and each one of them can be read in around two hours.
I don't know what kind of person Ibsen was, but his plays are almost perfect and a pleasure to read.
My edition is older and has A Doll's House, Hedda Gabler, The Wild Duck, and Enemy of the People.
All of them are quite good as I recall, especially the first and last.Doll's House is the one I remember best, so it is the only one I'll comment on here.
It's the confined woman of the 1900's freeing herself from the tyranny of the patriarchal society, which is a theme we see in so many other places.
That said, it is a rich play filled with emotional conflict.
Nora is one of those characters that one always remembers.
This is a collection of three of Isben's plays written at different times in his career—The League of Youth, A Doll's House and The Lady from the Sea. They are all easy reads.
The first two plays I found a little shallow in both characterisation and plot even though I'm empathetic with the underlying messages.
'A Lady from the Sea' suggests to me that Isben's writing had improved as he aged.
Once again, the issues raised are worthy and perhaps ahead of their time.
This last of the three plays made the whole book worthwhile.
Ibsen writes a really impressive play here that has a lot of room for interpretation and an easy to follow structure that shows the progression of a (in my opinion) likeable, but realistically flawed, protagonist who overcomes a patriarchal society to find independence. I hated Torvald, which meant he was expertly written as he was supposed to show all that was wrong with societal gender roles in Norway at the time. Really good play, if you're doing A Level English Lit and this is one of your options - I'd advise to pick it! :)
When Torvald gets sick, his wife, Nora, takes out a loan in secret to pay for the trip to Italy his doctors insist upon.
She has been paying off her debt consistently - without her husband's knowledge - but now it looks like her dirty secret must come to light.
I read it in one sitting and feel perfectly fine about it.
At a mere 88 pages or so, this play is ridiculously short, and the plot is relatively simple, but thematically, the story is overflowing with important and relevant issues that provide food for thought.
If you haven't yet read this play, I would highly recommend doing so.
For this book I only had to read The League of Youth, as I had tackled a Dolls House and Lady From the Sea earlier. The League of Youth is a political play about a young man wanting to come in and change the old guard. Rid society of the corruption and scheming of the old timers with his new young and forward thinking colleagues, However in the end he turns out to be no better than those he is trying to replace and well, happy ending are not what Ibsen is known for.
I re-read A Doll's House (trans. Rolf Fjelde and rendered as "A Doll House") out of a random anthology. I remember reading it freshman year of high school; our culminating assignment was to act out a custody hearing to see if Torvald or Nora would get the kids. In retrospect, that totally misses the point, but we did have Nora's eldest son enact scenes of his parents on the stand using my brother's Ken-sized Stormtrooper dolls, so it wasn't a total wash.
this book is about a man and a woman in the Victorian ages in Europe. the wife, nora has a problem on her hands with money that she has to pay back to a person that helped her pay for her husbands life. the husband, torvald was sick and he needed medical help but they couldnt afford it. the story goes on about how nora gains the money and the relationship between her and her husband.
I love this play, and I'm also a fan of Hedda Gabbler. It was interesting to me to learn that Ibsen was also a painter (a very mediocre one, though) which explains why the visual element is so heavy in some of his plays. I also liked to see some of the sketches and paintings that Edvard Munch did for some of Ibsen's plays.
