https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80119.He_Is_There_and_He_Is_Not_Silent
I know these mountains like the back of my hand, and if you will trust in me, I can show you how to drop off the cliff ten feet and survive the ice." The second man begins to ask questions of this voice, even though time was short, to make sure he could trust the voice; questions to reassure the man that this voice was indeed everything that he claimed to be.He concludes this story by saying that the Christian idea of "faith" is much more closely related to the experience of the second man instead of the first.
Well, according to Schaeffer, all persons have the duty to construct a worldview, a framework that succeeds in making sense of these three avenues.
If we have the duty of creating (more like, perceiving) a worldview that makes sense of these realities, then any supposed worldview that fails in this task must be rejected.
The "problem," so to speak, is to make sense of that which is self-evident to all men.So, for example, the atheistic worldview asserts that all of reality can be reduced down to the impersonal.
That’s not necessarily wrong, and a good Platonist would have no problem with it, but I don’t think that’s what he means.
In normal usage metaphysics means something like “the nature of reality” or the study of being.”“An impersonal beginning leads to some sort of reductionism” (8).
You don’t have any meaning.Schaeffer’s argument is quite simple: you have to begin with the infinite-personal Trinity in order to have meaning.
He means something like only the Trinity, and the propositional revelation of God-in-Christ, can allow for predication between universals and particulars.
Responding to a materialist society18 August 2013 This is the third book in the so called Francis Schaeffer trilogy and I must admit that it does not seem to go anywhere. I guess the thing that put me off this book is that in the introduction he tried to convince us that this book, and in fact the whole trilogy, is like scripture in that all three books go together. Seriously, anybody who tries to convince me that their books are like scripture is going to put me off because scripture is scriptu
What Schaeffer is trying to do with this book is to bring what he has discussed in the first two books and outline how we, as Christians, can speak the gospel to a post modern world.
Okay, the atheists are running around claiming that there is no god, but you wonder around other parts of the world and you will discover that a lot of people do not live in a closed system.
Schaeffer wrote before the rise of homosexuality, but this has changed and has become accepted.
Presuppositions feed facts.
But facts, the way the world is, feed our presuppositions as well.
Schaeffer outlines how the failure to have an infinite personal God who speaks leads inevitably to meaninglessness.
But more than that he shows how an infinite personal God who created this world and who speaks is the only option that matches the facts of how the world actually is.
Schaeffer writes with a high level of empathy for the modern man in the book.
Schaeffer had an answer for this lostness.
But he does not just have an answer he truly loves those he speaks to.
And Christianity has those answers.
This was the first book I ever read by Schaeffer, back in the late 80s. It altered forever how I thought about life, God and Christianity. I came from a Christian tradition where thinking was not required. You were a Christian because you had "faith," no matter if that faith was a contentless faith. Schaeffer taught me that to become a thinking Christian was a good and necessary thing!
An excellent end to an excellent "trilogy"
This is the third of Francis Schaeffer's great trilogy (preceded by "The God Who Is There" and "Escape From Reason"), and is a direct and concise defense of the existence--indeed, the necessity--of God, and the truth of Christianity.
However, I think that once it has been given sufficient attention, the rewards are an incredible look into the mind of a very great thinker.Schaeffer argues that the central problem facing mankind in the last half of the 20th century (a problem which bleeds into the 21st) is that of knowing.
He then draws the profound implications of this in the realm of being, morals, and how we know what we know.He shows that those who live in a closed system, where there cannot be a God outside of natural causes, must eventually see themselves as machines.
At times, it is more difficult to read just because at times he talks about history, philosophers, and modern movies most people haven't heard of, but his basic ideas are profound and solid apologetic arguments for the truthfulness of the Christian position.
I know of few books as short and impactful as this small, unassuming read.If you are an atheist, agnostic, Catholic, Protestant, philosopher, or every day person who just wants to grow as a thinker...this book grapples with some incredibly complex notions in some of the most accessible and easily understandable language I've ever come across.
Basically, the book starts with the Higher Order Questions and Schaeffer's own observations about peoples' assumptions (he calls them presuppositions) and systematically works towards the exclusivity to the Christian answer which he believed.
This is a dynamite read to any person who wants to increase their grasp of their faith and the Christian life and world-view.Some people compare Schaeffer to C.S. Lewis, but that is not a fair assessment.
The books, The God Who Is There, and Escape from Reason would have been helpful to read, as they apparently make up a threesome with this work.I appreciate the way Schaeffer writes with more depth than the average evangelical.
Thought provoking quote:"...evangelicals have made a horrible mistake by often equating the fact that man is lost and under God's judgment with the idea that man is nothing--a zero.
There is something great about man, and we have lost perhaps our greatest opportunity of evangelism in our generation by not insisting that it is the Bible that explains why man is great."
Awesome. Not just awesome in fact, awesome-awesome.
He then shows how these issues are not issues at all in the Christian worldview.This paragraph summarizes the book:"In conclusion, we see three interrelated results of the Christian’s view of epistemology: first, as I look out to the external world, to the world of relationships, in the subject-object relationship; second, as other people look to me and I look to other people—as I want to know and understand another person; and third, to the internal world of my thoughts, fantasies, and imaginations.
The loss of the reality of the subject-object relationship; the difficulty of people getting to know each other; and the awful nightmare of the confusion between reality and fantasy: modern epistemology leads to these three terrors.
A fantastic look at why the God of the Bible is philosophically necessary.Admittedly, this one lost me more times than I cared to admit, but only because it demands your full attention as it stretches your ways of thinking.
In either case, I found this book to present a strong, confident argument about the Triune God of the Bible and the human condition.
While the book is certainly intellectual, it focuses multiple times on human experience and things we can't explain rationally to make its arguments, which I found to be some of the most compelling parts of the book.

Francis Schaeffer (Very Apologetic and logical book on the subject, “Is there a God and if yes, how must he be”. Francis Schaffer argues in a somehow special way, I would compare it a litte to Ravy Zacharias, to give a modern example. Francis writes about the practical implications of all the other worldviews that try to make sense out of things, following their logical conclusions – into utter meaninglessness, ending at the only reasonable and satisfying answer, there must be a God and he must be personal – He is there and He is not Silent.)
O cristão nunca será neutro e inerte para trazer repostas ao não cristão. " O cristão sempre terá por onde começar: partindo da fachada exterior para realidade interior, porque, não importa o que o homem diz que ele seja, sabemos quem ele realmente é. Ele foi criado à imagem e semelhança de Deus; eis o que ele de fato é. Nós sabemos que, em algum lugar lá no fundo..." No fundo todos tem a evidência de que Deus existe!Esse é um ótimo livro de apologética! Deus não está em silêncio e nem está longe. Louvado seja Deus!
I truly loved this book! It needs to be read with two other books by the same author - "The God who is There" and "Escape from Reason" It would be a good book for anyone. For the person investigating reality and for the Christian questioning the reality of his worldview, it is a great book. I read this book many years ago (perhaps in the late 1970s) and it is just as relevant now as then - perhaps even more so!
كتاب فلسفي بيقدم رؤية الفلسفة المسيحية لفكرة وجود الخالق والكون والانسان, وبيشرح مدي منطقية الرؤية بالمقارنة للفسلفات الاخري اللي بتحاول تفسر سبب وجود خليقة وكون , وبيتناول حتي الفلسفة العدمية وبيشرح سبب عدم منطقيتها , كتاب جيد رغم ان اسلوبه جاف جدا
A great book of Christian apologetics.
Schaeffer's writing here presumes some familiarity with the arc of philosophical thinking from the Greeks to Kierkegaard, as he alludes to them frequently and what he views as the ultimate failure of their thinking to answer the basic questions of existence.
The book is an effective polemic for the Christian worldview, but bogs down in the last quarter or so as Schaeffer abandons his original focus on metaphysics and logic in favor of his own meandering musings on the relationship of man to his fellows and to God.This is a worthwhile read, though many will find the less-polemical and more "common sense" bent of C.
This is a very GREAT book and I highly highly recommend it to everyone. :)
This book should come with complementary aspirin. Very deep stuff here, but worth the read. Excellent for people claiming intellect is holding them back from faith.
Over my headThere are parts of this I could wrap my brain around. I wanted more of a layman's approach to apologetics. This book would probably be required reading in a seminary. I didn't ride into to town on a turnip truck but it's too intellectual for me.
Because there is a God who has made you in your image (i.e., he is knowable by his creatures), and he has has spoken.Schaeffer seeks to equip Christians with the knowledge to confront the philosophical milieu of the day.
He points out that "students go out from the theological seminaries not knowing how to relate Christianity to the surrounding worldview.
My observation is that most students graduating from our theological seminaries do not know the questions." I believe we are doing better at this now than we were in the 60s and 70s, but the statement still rings true.
But Christians can hate evil without hating the system (God and his creation) that produced it.
Schaeffer is very abstract in writing, and because he is used to dialoguing with people directly and one on one, apparently found it challenging to put in writing his reasons for believing Christianity to an unknown and diverse audience.
I gave this book 4 stars because it was really good and very helpful, even if I didn't understand everything that Schaeffer was talking about.I would highly recommend this book to people who want reasons to believe in Christianity outside of the Bible.
Schaeffer shows how none of the other philosophers or religions besides Christianity and the God of the Bible can adequately answer the questions of life.
This little book discusses, succinctly and logically, "possible answers to basic philosophical questions." The book is divided into three sections, dealing with the knowability of truth, the existence of morality, and how we know how we know things, that is, epistemology.
The ruling or law (God) provides the basis for morality (the client's innocence), the latter being invalid and nonexistent if there is nothing in which to ground it.
I am a bit biased as a Francis Schaeffer nerd. I think everything he wrote is gold. The most helpful part about this book is the culmination of his thought on the philosophy of propositional truth.
Ever wait too long to watch a movie?
Everyone is raving about how good it is, but by the time you see it, the hype has spoiled it a little?
That's kinda how I feel about Francis Schaeffer.
Many of his ideas have taken root among modern apologists.
Successors have developed and refined them.
Because he's been copied copiously and pilfered a'plenty, I've seen much of this before.
It blunted the impact his books should have had.
If you're reading "The God Who Is There", "Escape from Reason" and then this third work "He Is There and He Is Not Silent" then I feel like this book was a bit of summary between the previous two.
The last five pages of the book, however, had my heart racing.
He writes 30 years ago but it feels like it's written 30 years from now looking back and giving us advice for how to proclaim truth in a society where it has fallen out of fashion.
