https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92855.First_King_of_Shannara
I read this a while ago, but all I remember is that the old adage, "show don't tell," was completely disregarded. Everyone was described as being ever so evil, good, awesome, super and yet never once did I actually believe it because no one did anything. Can't say I've been excited to read any of the other installments based on this one and 6 years later I still haven't.I'm pretty sure it was Scott Brick who did the audio, so there's no complaints there.
Anyway, that's neither here nor there, but just a way to set up my review of First King of Shannara.Terry Brooks is a very good descriptive writer, a trait which is well suited to writing fantasy and describing worlds the reader is likely to be unfamiliar with.
This has held true for all of the Shannara books I have read, which is everything up to and including the Voyage of the Jerle Shannara trilogy.
This is not a 'must read' by any means and will likely appeal more to existing Shannara readers as it fleshes out the back story and history prior to the first book in the series (The Sword of Shannara).
I just don't get this guy, because all he's proven to me is that anyone can rip off LOTR, create the most cliche fantasy scenarios and become an instant success.Ok, I don't want to get a head of myself.
Eventually though, I wanted to start reading some of the other fantasy series that were out there.
I started reading reviews about the Shannara series - and they were bad.
This book is filled with so many cliche scenarios, characters and plot devices it felt like I was reading a script for a game of Dungeons & Dragons, only trying desperately to be parallel to the world of Middle Earth, clinging to every nuance it possibly could.
Amended.Yes, it is a horribly cliche 80s-style Tolkienesque classsic D'n'D style good-vs-evil Warcraft, Trolls, Elves, Druids and other noble creatures, epic fight, magical artifacts, coming of age, tell-vs-show saga-like book.
It's the kind of book that has its magical moment in time and place, and it's more about you reading it than the fact you are reading it and what words it has to share.From a purely technical perspective, 20 years later, this book is definitely not a great work of prose.
But it is a great work of adventure and magic, and if you have happened to be there at the right age and in the right frame of mind, it is awesome.
Yet another great book in the Shannara series by Terry Brooks.
It is called a prequel for a reason, and I thing looking at the continuum of the story in an order the mind isn't used to will make it better when working on understanding the themes that the Terry Brooks is trying to present.
In particular, I found the story of Tay Trefenwyd to be particularly moving.
It also brought to light the concept of absolute power, and the ability to sacrifice oneself in order to not destroy that which one holds most dear, right intention, thought, and action.Great book.
What you should have done is spread out the battle scenes so we don't have 3 chapters about boring one-dimensional characters complaining about how boring they are and they wish they could stop being so boring but its really hard cause they're so boring.
I'm also very emotional, and I like to show this by spending the entire second half of books sulking in a corner and lamenting my best friend's death.Tay Trefenwyd: "SPOILER ALERT I'm the guy that dies."Preia Starle: "If I had to describe my personality with just three words, I'd use:1.
Reading reviews about this book and MAN people get butthurt over the dumbest crap. Like, you're mad the names of the kingdoms arent imaginative enough? Really? You're mad that an epic fantasy series has the common epic fantasy tropes? Honestly. Maybe y'all are mad because he took inspiration from LoTR, but if you're a diehard LoTR fan you shouldn't be expecting anything to match it anyway
I liked it. Looking forward to the second book in the series.
I must say that since writing the Sword of Shannara back in 1977, at least that is when it was published, Terry Brooks has become a much better writer.
I read the Sword back when I was in middle school and I loved the book.
I read 3-4 more Shannara books and well by the 4th book it was the same story over and over again.
I saw First King at the book store and was impressed with the cover.
Later I even read "Antrax" another "Shannara" book but wasn't as impressed with that one as I was with First King.
#9/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.#9/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.Lackluster prequel to the original Shannara series has the same feel as Lucas' Star Wars prequels: a story line that has already been noted, but with a few details filled in giving it a perfunctory feel.
To be fair, though, it was probably a mistake to read this before I started the Shannara trilogy (since it was published before the pre-Shannara books).The book ended on a high note, part four being better than the first three, but chapters 15-17 concluding Part Two "The Search for the Black Elfstone" were Brooks at his best, though the story of the black elfstone was better told in the superior The Druid of Shannara.
All the elements of fantasy that I love but none of the excitement.Quite frankly, this book read like a history text book. I regret starting the series with this one, but I fully intend on reading more of Shannara. Book one, The Sword of Shannara, is sitting on my shelf already waiting to be read.So even though I personally did not enjoy this one, I am still excited to read more.
I've read more Terry Brooks than Faulkner in my life. And I bought the bulk of Shannara books the same day I bought The Complete Works of William Shakespeare.Oh, the irony! Anyway, I thought this cookie-cutter fantasy epic was a great book when I was eleven. No way in hell I'm re-reading this, but it's safe to say that I don't think so anymore.
The doors stood open to the night so that fresh air could be drawn in and stale heat vented out and those who forced themselves close enough were witnesses to visions they later declared to have been born out of madness.A sword was forged by Urprox Screl that night, but the manner of its shaping would be forever in dispute.First King of Shannara takes the reader back to the place and time where everything once began.
Rather dull, both story and narration fell a bit flat.
I have to say that Terry Brooks is a great writer for action scenes.
I really liked this book, and can't say that I really understand why so many people seem to think that he is coping Tolkins' Lord of the Ring series.
I can however say that I am reading too many fantasies and the worlds are becoming one in my mind...
but that's really just a personal note.
There really isn't anything grotesque in this book, so I think a pre-teen could easily read it without the parents being worried.
Read it yourself if you doubt me.
Interesting in the fact that we learn the story of Allannon's early life, his master Bremen and the struggle against Brona which was alluded to in Sword of Shannara.Good, not great but valued for it's information of the Early days of Magic use and it's pitfalls.
this book is poorly written. the description of the warriers is sexist and human-centric. there was detailed description of scenes that were not relevant to the plot. a slog of a read and very disappointing.
The first book a pastiche/homage to Tolkien's books, and the remainder original stories.I read his follow-up, the unrelated "Magic Kingdom: For Sale", but was not enchanted by this new world and it would be 5 more years before Brooks produced another Shannara novel, though I was mostly unaware of it, at the time.
And, to be honest, it was simply too daunting and I turned to various other books of magic, science, mystery and so on.Now I decided to step back into the pool and chose this one because it is a direct prequel to Sword.
I was hesitant a lot, reconsidering starting this book.I as anybody who loves high fantasy knew of Terry Brooks but I was not attracted to his world...I saw the first season and marked it as to read, but there was such a hate toward the books, that it let me down for some time.But that was a gravely mistake.
I brought the book for vacation and during my stay in car there and back again I read it all and I loved it all.
I understood why they behaved as they did, loved the way the relationships evolved.
I didn't enjoy this one as much the second time as I did the first time. I already knew how everything was going to go down and I was not looking forward to it all. But I loved the druid Bremen even more this time. I understood him a bit more and could appreciate his complexity. Mareth was another character I appreciated a lot more this time around.
Loved it! It really makes me want to go back and reread the original 3 books in the series. Lots of suspense and emotion in this story that made it hard to put down.
In the wake of said devastation, man's science and the ancient faerie magic from before man both were revived.In recent years, Brooks has written Shannara prequels a lot, and this trend began, really, in 1996, with the publication of First King of Shannara, which details the back-story of the famous Sword of Shannara, which was forged during the brief “Second War of the Races”, mentioned by Allanon to Flick and Shea Ohmsford during The Sword of Shannara.The interesting thing is that, for those who are big Allanon fans, they will not find him much in this book until the very end.
Why do people like these ridiculously high fantasy books that just meander on and on and just drag on forever?
FIRST KING is actually a prequel, not the first book in the trilogy.
The thing is I actually liked the story and I would read on if I didn’t have to slog through such heavy-handed writing.
And I picked up the book because I wanted to find out what actually happened to the world to make our current society disappear and these elven people crop up.
I cant tell yet, however I tend to feel that this book is a prime example as to why for someone who wants to start a new series may want to avoid a prequel to start off with.
I typically feel that Prequels are primarily to explain or clear things up from the original story line that needed further explanation or expansion and not to simply add another volume to the series.
Ill hold any further judgement until I read book one of the Shannara series.
I expected this to be at least a little better.
I've stayed away from traditional fantasy like this for a long time, especially after reading George R.
R. Martin, but sometimes I get a craving so I come back.
So many characters with plot armor, so much deus ex machina, so little character development, so many overused tropes.
I did enjoy the battles that make up the last fifty or so pages, but it takes so long to get there.
It's plodding, lots of time spent on the wanderings of characters, but they mostly do very little until the end.
I'd been wanting to read the Shannara series for awhile, I actualy started with the prequel instead of the first book, and I'm now in the process of reading The Wishsong of Shannara.
I've noticed, however, that there has been a large amount of criticism against the Shannara Trilogy for having many similarities with The Lord of The Rings.
And, as for the series, it really starts to pick up in The Elfstones of Shannara.
The First King of Shannara isn't a must-read by any stretch, but I would highly suggest reading it if you're a fan of Terry Brooks' work.
I'm being generous in giving it three stars in a way, because I wasn't entirely hooked into the story until the very last part, titled 'The Battle for the Rhenn'.
For me, it's the characters and their dialogue that make or break the story - and this one was almost broken.
The last part redeemed it, and I will continue reading the Original Shannara trilogy, but Ih ave to say this one wasn't as good as I'd hoped it would be.
I read the entire Shannara series in the order they were published during my early high school years.
I finally just got around to reading the prequel and it felt like coming home to a familiar, comforting place.
Easy enough to read as the first book in the series as it is to read it as the final book.
With the latter being the case for me, I enjoyed having the knowledge of where the character's lineage would lead and how the characters met in this book would come to play a role again in future books.
I read the Sword of Shannara several years ago, and the series Genesis of Shannara in 2013, but I decided to read this book next instead of the ones that followed the Sword of Shannara.There have been many comments about its likeness to Tolkien's LOTR, that characters are flat and the story not so engaging.
In my oipinion, Terry Brooks succeeded in developing his fantasy world, making his characters interesting, and his battles engaging.
I saw that chronologically, this is the first book in the Shannara series, and I went ahead and read this first.
Chapters ended with character name reveals and "shocking moments" that I felt only had impact with previous knowledge that I didn't have.
That kind of made the book a bit anticlimactic, since I didn't understand much of the revealing moments.
I would definitely recommend this book, but I would say to read some of the other Shannara books before diving in, as it would definitely enrich the experience.
