https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84134.Dragonswan
Now, it seems every paranormal romance author and her sister is writing about them.So. After having sex with this guy, both of you are suddenly branded with some geometric shape.
If you don't bond with him in 3 weeks, he will be doomed to live life alone, and never have sex again.......Here Kenyon's created a tailor-made woman's fantasy: - Hot guy instantly in love with you for no reason.
So, no points off.Things that fail: - While having sex, Sebastian bites Channon on the neck with his fangs and drinks her blood, and she grows fangs (one-time deal only) and drinks his blood too.
Sebastian Kattalakis (Were-hunter, Dragon) and Channon -Shannon with C- MacRea (human)"Oh my God," she breathed.
"It's a real Saxon village!""Complete with bad hygiene and no plumbing."As you may have guessed this is a time-travel book."Why do you think an Arcadian would bring a human woman through time?"The book includes a fierce Arcadian dragon (who of course has magical abilities and can time-travel like all were-hunters) and a oversentimental historian.“What did you do to me?” she asked, turning onto her back to look at him.
It was all you.”“Trust me, I've never done that before.”He laughed softly in her ear.Although the book is part of the Dark Hunter universe, it can easily be read as a standalone.
The romance between Sebastian and Channon is simplified, so are the action line, and the frame story of Sebastian’s current aim and deeds.
The time frame is not clear.
Furthermore, I miss the moving and heart-wrenching emotionality that is usual from Sherrilyn Kenyon.All in all,it is really worth reading it if the root of the conflict between the Arcadians and the Katagaria is not clear for you.If you are a devoted Dark Hunter fan, you should definitely read it, but keep in mind that the storytelling has some flaws, and you have to know that no Dark Hunter appears in the story!
This novella was not one of Kenyon's better stories.
I think I would have liked this a whole lot more if I'd read it near the start of the series.
Now that I know a ton more about the were-hunters it feels a lot like Kenyon was really still developing the idea when she wrote this one.
There was no audio for this novella and I think that hurt it a bit.
The Dark-Hunter books are usually very well done in audio and this really helps amplify the humor.Rating: 2.5 stars.
This book is okay; compared to a lot of Sherrilyn Kenyon’s other books it is okay, not great but okay. Can’t say I’d recommend it, because I really didn’t like either of the characters but it is entertaining, although truthfully check out some of her other novella’s, this one really isn’t that good.
Entretenido sin más.
Perhaps some of these issues will be addressed in future Dark-Hunter installments, but I came away from this story with the feeling that they probably won't.I liked both Sebastian and Channon, but felt like their characters were not fully developed.
Dragonswan used to be considered the third book in the Dark-Hunter series, and I read it in that order.
I have the feeling though, that there are no carry-over characters in either direction, and Dragonswan is really more of a stand-alone story that is simply part of the Dark-Hunter world.
Entertaining novella. Happy reading!
Pure romantic escapism with smexysex.I had downloaded this for free a while ago, and randomly read it while traveling because of it was short. Which is what I recommend you do--download it for free, I mean. Because this was a typical instalust tale featuring a good-girl-but-inner-freak heroine and a highly fecund, hotter-than-your-mother's-electric-stove alpha male who is also...PART REPTILE. I said fecund!!My point being, this book is like 14872048 other paranormal smut on sale in bookstores. If you must spend your money, might as well spend it on something longer than 86 pages.Overall, 2 stars. It was at least readable. Sorta.
3 1/2 to 4 stars"Be kind to dragons, for thou art crunchy when roasted and taste good with ketchup." And so begins this interesting novella that takes us on an adventure with Channon (that's Shannon spelled with a 'C') and Sebastian, who is more than he first appears to be...
I know what it feels like to wake in the morning, lost and lonely and aching for someone to be there with me."Her heart clenched as he spoke the very things that really were a part of her.
Hearts never see through the eyes."Channon swallowed at his words.
That's, well, that's pretty much my entire review for this lovely little short story.
"But, Jacquie!" as you're inevitably not screaming at me, "Is the story good?
The characters are likable; Shannon with a C is nice, Sebastian is nice.
Yes, yes, I'm well aware that this is not a full length novel, so I should stow my dander and get over myself, but I can't help it!
Because of the limited page count, we never get a truly deep point of view of either Channon or Sebastian.
I enjoyed their story, because it made me...

The female mc's name is Channon, which I was pronouncing "Chan-on," like Channing (Tatum), but no, her name is Shannon, except spelled with a C.
A girl in college named Channon told me "I like your face" in a very aggressive manner at a party once, supposedly it was complimentary, but I found it disturbing and wondered if she was planning to cut my face off and wear it later.
Of course, I never liked the name Shannon either.
The horrible name + the female mc basically being a dolt + the very insipid plot & romance = 1 star rating.
This short story introduces the dragon shifter to the Dark Hunter series. I believe it was a short story because it only took a few pages to explain this world and I don't think a full length novel was needed. Sometimes, I see, why authors give us just a bit. To explain what they need and move on. Esp in these series. I liked the character storyline and explanation of the creation of their species. It goes into a lot of detail whereas in other novels its just a couple sentences.
I am trash for this trash.
Gara-gara sebuah permadani kuno zaman Saxon - Abad Pertengahan Inggris, Channon - Sang Sejarahwan menemukan soulmate nya.Sebastian adalah keturunan langsung dari Lycaon, ras Arkadia yg bs menjelma sbg naga.
Mau tidak mau Sebastian mengajak Channon ke masa abad pertengahan.
Awalnya Channon merasa terjebak namun tidak kuasa juga melihat hal-hal menakjubkan yg hanya dalam mimpi terdalamnya saja bisa terwujud.Musuh2 Sebastian sudah menanti dirinya dan pertempuran para naga tidak terelakkan.
Apakah Channon memilih hidup bersama Sebastian di masa abad pertengahan atau hidup sendiri di masa depan?Alur ceritanya sangat lurus, tidak berliku-liku.
Utk ukuran novella, not bad buku ini.
Sebastian is a loner, exiled by his family to wander forever alone.
Being alone is a painfully lonely thing for a dragon that loves company.
Channon is a lover of history and lore so is it any surprise she's attracted to the sexy medieval man standing in front of her.
Dragonswan is the first book I've read by Sherrilyn Kenyon and I must say I'm surprised by how much I enjoyed it for the most part.
The story itself was neat, the time traveling aspect was pretty different.
It certainly added something different to this dragon love story.
This was an okay story, but I found it all very predictable. Sebastian was very domineering, and basically wanted to sweep Channon off her feet and keep her bare-foot and pregnant in a different freaking century, and she went along with it because he was so hot. And then we got a whole soul-mates/bonding type thing going on as well.6 out of 10
Me ha gustado bastante más que "El comienzo". Aquí los personajes tienen su desarrollo y nos va explicando cosas que intuyo tendrán su importancia a lo largo de la saga. Ha habido cosas que realmente me han gustado mucho de esta pareja, pero como es lógico otras tantas no mucho. Y es una lástima que la traducción sea tan literal, pero es lo que hay.
Fue cool, pero demasiado cortito. Me quedé como... ¿ya acabó?
Short sexy read

I didn't like the fact that there were only 86 pages in Dragonswan because as with all SK's books, I want to keep reading about her characters. This was a story that could have have gone on and on. I loved Channon and Sebastion and their relationship. In reality, only Sherrilyn Kenyon could have created a beautiful love story in 86 pages.
I'm not sure why this story is part of the Dark Hunter series. It is really short which makes it hard to connect to the story and the characters. I'm not a fan of books that have characters who are perfect strangers having sex within the first chapter and then finding out they are life mated. I'm going to continue with the Dark Hunter series but this one could have totally been skipped.
Read this book a while a gland love it as well as the other books I have read from this wonderful author Sherilyn Kenyon so yes I would be delighted to recommend this book to my friends so as always happy reading.
Very enjoyable. I was happy to get some Were-Dragon action after having read a large portion of the Dark-Hunter series. I'd like some more Were-Dragon action in the future. Say yes to Drakos! The only problem I had with the story - it was too short. I wanted some more Dragon lovin'.
What ??? She had to give up watching Buffy The Vampire Slayer in order to live with him?Sorry, this story was just too cruel for me...but then a nice HEA (view spoiler)[(possibility to time travel to watch some TV) (hide spoiler)] occurred...;)
Cute, quick read!
Mi pequeña gran maravilla <3http://mayuamoraprimeravista.blogspot...

