https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261601.A_Good_Scent_from_a_Strange_Mountain
Exemplary short story collection! Have not been moved this way since Jhumpa Lahiri's (also Pulitzer-winning) "Interpreter of Maladies." CANNOT POSSIBLY be MISSED by any serious student of the Short Story or modern American literature. A late night top-notch Scotch... or an aroma that arrives at you with an intimate immediacy.
he received broad recognition in 1993, when a collection of these stories - published a year before and titled A Good Scent from a Strange Mountain - was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.Many novels have been written about the Vietnam War - both by American and Vietnamese authors - but here the concept is new: Butler gives voice to the Vietnamese refugees to America, who have settled in southern Louisiana - near New Orleans.
The last two stories Salem and Missing are narrated by two soldiers, Vietnamese and American, who stay in the country.
Reading this 1993 Pulitzer-prize-winner, you get a sense that Butler wrote these stories from where he dreams.Whenever a short-story collection adds a distinct checkmark to my reading experience, I often find myself flipping back through the pages with curiosity, closely examining each line just to understand the ‘how.’ It is in the bewitching voices of each Vietnamese character: young, old, male, female.
That night, I found myself in the mind of a Vietcong soldier, a Vietcong defector, an American MIA, and a Vietnamese refugee.
With each convincing story and compelling voice of the narrator, I was transported to Vietnam and then back to America, to immigrant settlements in Louisiana: like Versailles and Lake Charles.
They are the stories of Vietnamese refugees, written in first person by Robert Olen Butler, a white American.
I don't like the idea of putting narrow restrictions on a writer's imagination - why shouldn't Butler imagine these voices?
The problem is that the stories are all written in slightly stilted English as if told in the narrators' second language.
Butler, unfortunately, chose not to imagine his characters' as fluid thinkers and wrote about them as if through the filter of a poor translator.
Compared to Viet Thanh Nguyen's urgent collection "The Refugees," these stories feel muted, reductive, homogenized.
I think white people need to stop telling non-white peoples' stories. It just reeks of uncomfortable colonialism. The short story where Butler writes his character as a cheap, two-bit Vietnamese hooker with the awkward stereotypical English one might expect from a recent war victim is just too pathetic for me to swallow. Some nice sentences here and there, but generally a flop.
Damn you to hell.” Because now any book I pick up next can only pale by comparison to this exquisitely beautiful story collection.
He is, without question, a writer with the courage to lay bare his heart.This is such a varied collection that it’s difficult to go much further other than to say there are a couple of stories in here that are the most beautiful things I’ve ever read - specifically the book’s title story as well as the collection’s penultimate story, "Salem" and its final story, “Missing”.
I feel bad giving this book only one star since it won the Pulitzer, but I did not like this book at all. It's a collection of short stories about Vietnamese immigrants in America. The dust jacket promised "lyrical" but delivered "short and choppy" instead. The stories could be revealing about the Vietnamese immigrant's experience in America, but the writing style is off-putting and frankly, doesn't make much sense to me. Even if the stories are from a Vietnamese person's point of view, and even if they don't speak English well, they wouldn't THINK in choppy sentences, would they?
a white guy writing vietnamese stories in choppy language as if it were written by a non-english speaker. nobody thinks in language this choppy, and though ESL speakers might not speak as eloquently in English, it doesn't mean their thoughts are disorganized and choppy. it was also just boring and it felt like a chore to read. i quit part way through.
They touch on race (obviously...and per Edward Hirsch a requirement for a Pulitzer winner) and also sexism and religion as well as cultural assimilation and differences.I have specific notes below on each story:Open Arms--I wasn't crazy about this one.
Again there was some interesting dynamics between the husband and wife (power struggles) and also I liked the hot tub racism (the Americans were jealous of the hot Mexican lady and didn't even notice the Vietnamese), but I wasn't sure why it needed to be so long.
There's a reason this won the Pulitzer. While a few of the stories read more like retellings of myths, they are still so unique and melodic that I give this a 5. One of my favorite story collections.
Fluent in Vietnamese, he said his favorite time was walking the back streets of Saigon and crouching in the doorways, getting to know a people that he considers to be some of the most warm-hearted and open people he has ever known.A Good Scent From a Strange Mountain is a collection of short stories each from a different person's point of view.
Maybe if I went on the same adventure, I would see things differently; but that doesn't matter.
I got caught up in the Tabloid Dreams hysteria that gripped my circle of co-workers for three weeks back in 1996, forcing countless unsuspecting Calgarians to buy the collection of short stories.
Then, couple of years later, I clandestinely read his earlier short story collection, Good Scent From a Strange Mountain.
Only now, after fourteen years, do I dare admit it - Good scent is a better book.
But here the similarities end, as Butler explores distinctly different personalities, values and dreams in each story.
Worth your time, I love reading short stories and this book has excellent short stories with all the Vietnamese refugee as narrators.
Its a book about war, home, cultures, and countries.
He has done an excellent job.I liked all the stories, the first one with the parrot is favorite.
Just the one story with the couple who went out for vacation was a bit too long and not that touching.
Apart from that, the stories are just lovely.
Its one of those books to which you can come back to and read again.
I tend to dismiss Vietnam War books--too depressing, violent, mucho macho military men figures, and I'm getting a little burned out from WWII novels lately.
But this isn't a Vietnam War book (except for that draggy 14th story), it's more about the Vietnamese who immigrate here and settle in Louisiana.
For example, one Vietnamese girl ponders about the beginning of fairy tales, "Once upon a time".
Since a cowboy during the war told her he used to get "up on" a bull, she pictures how during the telling of a fairy tale, you get "up on" the back of time and you don't know where or when you'll get off.
In THE THINGS THEY CARRIED by Tim O'Brien he has a short story about the young enemy soldier that he killed by throwing a hand grenade at him.
In Olen Butler's A GOOD SCENT FROM A STRANGE MOUNTAIN, there is "Salem" the short story of a Vietnamese soldier that keeps a pack of Salem cigarettes that he recovered from a dead American soldier that he had killed.
He is troubled because the government wants him to return all of the items that could be used to identify the dead Americans.
I forgot that I finished this finally. I didn't throw it, but I definitely didn't like it very much. I think that writers CAN write from other points of view (just like readers can read and understand different points of view than their own) but all but one narrator rang false; what I heard behind the "Vietnamese" voice was always a white guy, probably from the midwest, who maybe went to Vietnam for a while. I can hear him working on it. Oddly, the story that had the strongest and most-likely-to-go-wrong voice (Fairy Tale) was the only one I liked.
I’m really torn over whether this book deserved a Pulitzer for several reasons.
Like playing pin the tail on the donkey.
For example, “The American Couple” will come to mind whenever I’m in a temporary situation (like a vacation or a retreat) and fast friendships are made.
But was anyone on the Pulitzer committee Vietnamese?
Female?I feel this all sounds overly critical, and Butler had no control over his book being a Pulitzer and doesn’t deserve uber-criticism because of it.
So, if I randomly picked this up, or read it not knowing it was a Pulitzer, I’d quite likely have swooned over it.
This is an absolutely amazing collection of stories about the Vietnamese experience in the 20-year-aftermath (at the time this collection was published) of the Vietnam war.
While most of the stories center around families who have resettled and rebuilt their lives in the United States after the war, there are also incredibly powerful stories from other perspectives--including the final, haunting story of an ex-American soldier, supposedly "MIA" for nearly twenty years, who has actually been building a new life for himself with a wife and child in a small, coffee and tobacco growing village in Vietnam.
After having read this book, I will never think about the Vietnam war--or any war for that matter--or the refugee experience--in the same way.
The progression of point-of-view characters, from hookers and strippers to Americanized middle-class Vietnamese immigrants in Louisiana to the white American deserter assimilated in a rural Vietnamese village, works well together and immerses us in a reading experience that exceeds the sum of the individual stories.
I am still pondering "The American Couple" (the longest and most ambitious of the stories) and how it's a metaphor for the story of Vietnamese-American relations--and potentially a warning to America about getting sucked into Middle East and other conflicts in the future.
With Robert Olen Butler's ability to inhabit characters and channel their voices, I wish that he would show us more Vietnamese-Americans than just the hooker-stripper husband-seeker former-military-officer-turn-businessman fisherman restauranteur and still-fervently-Vietnamese demographic.
So, I actually really liked a lot of these stories, but this book bothered me because all the stories are narrated by Vietnamese or Vietnamese Americans and the author is white.
I've read other books that do the same thing and haven't though twice about it (although maybe I should have thought twice), but this collection of stories is particularly troubling to me.I've come to the conclusion that it bothers me in this case because Butler went to the trouble to construct 15 stories from the perspective of young, old, women, men, immigrants, people born in the states, successful business men, waitresses, married, single, etc.
It's like he was trying not just to adopt a perspective culturally different from his own--but was attempting to voice an ENTIRE culture.
I bought and read this book when it first came out, back in '92, inspired to find it after hearing a radio commentary. At the time, I had just returned from a life-changing stay in Taiwan and was fascinated by all things Asian. Thought of it again this week while reading  The Unwanted .This is a collection of stories told from the points of view of various Vietnamese expatriates at various stages in the process of becoming assimilated into American culture. The author has a remarkable ability to
I bought and read this book when it first came out, back in '92, inspired to find it after hearing a radio commentary.
At the time, I had just returned from a life-changing stay in Taiwan and was fascinated by all things Asian.
Thought of it again this week while reading 
The Unwanted
.This is a collection of stories told from the points of view of various Vietnamese expatriates at various stages in the process of becoming assimilated into American culture.
The empathy required to pull this off when the author is not even Vietnamese is praiseworthy, not troubling.
This is a unique short story anthology, as all the characters are connected, however tangentially, to the Vietnamese expatriate community near New Orleans.
Most of these stories are good, and some of them are very good.
There were only a couple bad apples, and even those were bearable.
Dramatic, surprising, funny, they run the gamut.I had the sense throughout that Butler knew these characters and their culture very well.
I'd recommend it to anyone interested in the region, the culture, the history, or the genre.
See my own short stories at http://joshuarigsby.com.
This collection of short stories, of the Vietnamese affected by the war, is probably the best collection of short stories I have ever read.
Most of the stories are about immigrants from Vietnam who have ended up in Louisiana.
Some are set in Vietnam.
All are beautiful.Not all is sweetness and light, but the reader is shown the heart of the characters.
There is darkness and some of the stories are disturbing, but all ring true.
The characters are fascinating.
The insight is remarkable.This is one of those rare books that I will want to read again.
In my lifetime I've read thousands of books, including many of the great classics of literature.
This book is my absolute favorite book of all time.
The first time I read this book, I did it in a sitting.
And then I proceeded to read it twice more in a 48 hour span.
Butler weaves themes and phrases from one part of a story throughout the rest of the story to perfection.
This book makes me want to be a writer; it makes me wish I had written that perfect sentence I had just read.
I can't say enough good things about this book.
It is my all-time favorite.
I loved the stories in this book and they have stayed with me over the years. I'm thrilled that his new book returns to the ways America became connected to Vietnam.
Some of the most beautiful stories I've ever read. You MUST read this one!
I think all writers should work to write or at least think from the POV of the other in their fiction or memoir.
Not necessarily anything as reachy as Marra's A Constellation of Vital Phenomena, which I didn't think quite came off, or say, refugees if you know none, but simply others you know or can't quite grasp.
Butler is a Vietnam veteran, and here he writes from the POV of Vietnamese refugees, most of whom were from the Republic of Vietnam, some having fought for that country, but a few of whom were VC or at least VC sympathizers.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1993. It is a collection on short stories similar to Jhumpa Lahiri's Interpreter of Maladies which is currently on my Top 5 Pulitzer Prize bookshelf. The stories in this book are not as engaging and the characters not as interesting. I give A Good Scent from a Strange Mountain 3 stars.
Required reading for rising 10th graders at Campbell & Nathan's school. I think this will lead to some good discussion.
Beautiful short stories of Vietnamese immigrants.
