https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/864778.Palomino
I have the old version with 306 pages so I didn't have as much reading to do as the newer version."Palomino" was a good read.
I enjoyed the book because it had so many twists and turns, but poor Samantha having all these issues to deal with from a lousy husband leaving her, to a handsome Ranch Hand falling in love with her and leaving her, then to a loving child she tried to adopt not going thru, gee whiz after all that you think it was over HECK NO!
I do look forward to reading more of Ms. Steels books, but for now I'm content with this read.
A friend mentioned Danielle Steel tonight, and I remembered that I had read this book. It has to be 20 years since I read it. But I can still remember parts of it clear as day. I kinda wanna read it again - but I’m also nervous that I might ruin the mystique.
¡Uy! No apto para llorones como yo. No había llorado tanto con un libro en mi vida entera (Bueno sí, pero lloré mucho). Tengo que agradecer a la persona que me lo regaló. No sé ni qué decir, no quiero decir nada porque me gustaría recomendar este libro a muchos amigos míos que les gusta este género y no quiero ser un spoiler. Simplemente tengo que decir que me gustó demasiado y no dudaría en leer otro libro de Danielle Steel.
Dlouho jsem tuto americkou autorku odsuzoval, přiznávám, že bezdůvodně, jen tak z podstaty.
Palomino jsem vybral na základě hodnocení čtenářů na Databázi knih – zrovna tato kniha je hodnocena skoro nejlépe.
Nemůžu říct, že Steel je skvělá spisovatelka, protože jsem četl jen jednu její knihu, ale pokud jsou i ostatní takto dobře napsané, chápu její celosvětový úspěch.
Palomino byl pro mě zážitek (až na několik překladových podivností).
A jak jsem sám sobě slíbil, podíval jsem se i na film.
Pane bože, to byl hrozný zážitek.
Jak je kniha dobrá, tak je film špatný.
Danielle Steel's novel, "Palomino," was pretty good. However, unfortunately, it DID NOT meet the high expectations that I had hoped that it would. :-(. I found out that I preferred watching the made-for-TV movie MUCH MORE. Some details contained within Danielle Steel's plot were the represented similarly in the movie, but others were vastly different. I am glad that I can now say that I have read "Palomino," but it DID NOT have me as hungry, enthralled, or engrossed as I had wanted to be. It was not NEARLY AS impressive as "Wanderlust" was for me.
Like so many others this was one of my first romance novels and first Danielle Steel book, it was sooo many years ago, but for some reason I can remember the storyline and I remember enjoying it. I've read other Danielle Steel books, but this in the only one that stood out for me!
This is one of the first books I read by Danielle Steele. She has turned out to be one of my favorite authors to read as a quick "summer read". What can I say -- I'm a sucker for romance novels!
When Samantha Taylor's husband left her for another woman, it devastated her and left her bereft and heart-broken.
She placed her advertising career on hold and sought refuge in a friend's California horse ranch, and lost herself in the daily rigorous hard labor of ranch life.
Later, she discovered daily joys, hard work and trusted friends to help her heal.
And from there, a heated relationship ensued between Samantha and Tate.
When Tate disappeared and Samantha fell from her horse, it changed her life forever...
From there, she would deal with the daily battles on the handicapped, she would find new joys and loves, and the adopted child she always wanted.
I am just not a fan of romance novels, but I am a HUGE fan of books with a kind of western theme (ranch life, cowboys, cattle drives, horses, etc.) and traditional westerns.
This is why, when my mom recommended this book, I had a very open mind about it.
I enjoyed the first part, but about halfway through it got annoying and, by the end, I had completely lost interest.
The characters were a bit generic, especially the high-powered executive who insisted she everything when, in reality, she knew painfully little about how real ranch life works.
A novel that I read 8 years ago. The first novel that I read twice. The weird thing is that the feelings when I read this story hasn't changed. It brings warmth. If Danielle Steel only has 1 single book that she has ever written in her life, then Palomino is enough. Those out there who are nature lovers, who never mind getting their hands dirty, who enjoys sweating under the sun working for what you believe is right, who wants to love and be loved despite all the defects... This is one story that you should not neglect.
Three years of heartaches, love, pain, faith, and friendship were tested in this story. Each and every sorrow and happiness was detailed in this very special book. This was -and still is- the kind of book that will make one's faith and ability to love come alive with the challenges, the pains, and a large dose of REALITY.  Palomino - a beautiful book about eternal love and life.GOD BLESS, READERS!
This is where I fell of the Steel train. Oh man. sometimes I think when the monkeys aren't writing hamlet, they're writing danielle steel books!I love those monkeys!
I loved this book. I couldn't put it down. The story was filled with so much love and emotion. I just love it.
Underbar bok om hur livet kan bli annorlunda på bara ett ögonblick
Danielle te voltea todo y hace un giro que no te esperas.
sin embargo, cuando tras una discusión desaparece Tate, ella sufre un accidente que la hace estar en una silla de ruedas.Sigo asombrándome de cómo es que Danielle steel escribe sus historias.
Sí tienen romance, pero sin duda alguna también están cargadas de drama, leyendo sus libros he descubierto que me gustan más las novelas que se enfocan en romances más realistas y no rosas o idealizados.
Oldie but a goodie!!
This is one of my favorite Danielle Steel books.
As I peruse my collection of her books, I'm finding myself re-reading many of the old ones, (35+ years) and I seem to enjoy the older ones because the contents in them are far less repetitive than the newer ones.
I believe I've read every one of her books and, with the exception of a couple, enjoyed them immensely.
If you're a Danielle Steel fan, this has always been one of my favorites, and I'm sure you'll feel the same way.
Moje první (a pravděpodobně poslední) kniha od Danielle Steel. Kdyby na tenhle měsíc nebyla vyhlášená do knižního klubu, určitě bych po ní nesáhla... ale musím teda říct, že jsem byla překvapená - a to mile. Příběh byl jednoduchý, předvídatelný a očekávatelný. O tom žádná... ale bylo to prostě dobře napsané. Knihu jsem měla přečtenou za dva dny, dokonce se mi o ní i zdálo a chtěla jsem vědět, jak to bude pokračovat, i když jak to skončí bylo jasné. Je to prostě romance (kterých je teď všude spousta, i když třeba schované pod YA nálepkou) a dobře napsaná. Oddechovka. :)
Not you usual read for a DS novel. A young lady seems to step into the pits whenever things are looking up. She tried to hold her family together, but they scatter. Most of her family and friends live nearby and she gets along with them. Then real life knocks on her door and she must stand and face reality. She does. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
I first read this book in 1982 .While packing I discovered this was a book I saved and haven't read many D.Steele books, so knew I should reread. Loved it just as much as the first time and now can pass it on.
Looooved this book. The heroine is injured and has to find her way back to living a full life again. The read date is approximate since I don't remember exactly when I read it but definitely remember this one.
I loved this book. It kept me interested throughout. I gave it 4 stars because I was disappointed there wasn’t at least one more chapter at the end. I felt like it needed more to add to the happy ending! I loved the authors style of writing and look forward to reading more of her books!
I very much enjoyed reading Palomino. I loved the characters and I loved the depth to the story. Some of Ms. Steel's newer stories don't have the depth, but this one did. It was a touching story of growth and heartache. If you are a fan of Ms. Steel, you'll love this book!
A veces la vida puede ser muy cruel con uno, pero depende de nosotros y quedarnos ahí o seguir adelante
my favorite Danielle Steel book. This was my first Danielle Steel book, it was so good I went on to read many more.
How much you like Heartland would probably determine how much you like this.
This is the story about a summer camp for disadvantaged children. You can find this book through many accessible options.
Loved it
First time in this genreThis is not my usual genre, but I found it to be entertaining, and captivating. I like the plot twists that made it enjoyable for me. It was a good read.
O carte nemaipomenita ! 10🌟 chiar nu imi gasesc cuvintele pentru a o descrie !❤❤❤
This is my absolute favourite of Danielle Steel's books. I have read it twice now and both times I thoroughly enjoyed it. A real tear jerker!
