https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14345.Rain_of_Gold
Parallel stories are told of two children, both babies of their families, who grow up during the Mexican revolution.
Children of war who are driven from their homes in Mexico, hoping for a better life in America.
In America, however, they find that the Mexicans are treated no better than dogs.
After all, wasn't it love, and only love, that a parent could pass on." As this book is the history of the author's parents, it's not a spoiler to say that the two children grow up, eventually meet and fall in love.
It's a beautiful love story.
This is family history of the most immediate kind, redeemed from its excess of filial piety and lack of craft by a passion and sense of drama that usually but not always stops just short or melodrama.
One side came from a remote mining village terrorized by the kind of bands of thugs left over when Villa's army disintegrated.
Someone who cast a critical eye on these stories would probably have slowed the narrative down, robbed it of the intensity that makes it so readable.
In its own way, this novel is a remarkable achievement, as the intensity of its telling overcomes its lack of seasoning.
This book was exceptional.
The family research the author conducted to put this family story together is amazing.
Reading this book gave me a whole new outlook into immigration and Mexican history.
The war and revolution that occured in Mexico was so bad that families had to flee in order to save their lives.
They didn't want to leave their homes where they had lived, farmed, ranched, etc for generations anymore than we wanted them to come to the U.S. And then they get here and "rent" tents and migrate with the crops just to earn enough money to buy some food.
What an enlightening story.And the characters were wonderful!
This is a wonderful story, made that much more impressive simply by the fact that it is the true story of the author's family.
I found myself crying when the characters cried, feeling scared when they felt scared, and basically emulating all emotions reflected in the book.
It's a bit long and looks like a text book at first glance (with black and white photos of the author's family in the middle of the book), but don't let that discourage you because it flies by.
Definitely one of those books that you are sad to be finished reading because you miss the characters.
5***** and a ❤I read this on a friend's recommendation and was immediately caught up in the story of Villasenor's parents and grandparents. It's nonfiction, but full of old Mexican allegorical stories. There were times when, as I read, I would think "He's telling MY family's story!" After I read it (in English), I bought it for my mother (in Spanish).UPDATE March 2008My Hispanic book club chose this book for discussion, and I skimmed through it to refresh my memory
The book is about mainly two characters: Lupe and Juan (Salvador).
It tells the story of both families in different places in Mexico in the time during the Mexican Revolution.
That's when the story of Juan and Lupe come together and take some twsit and turns.There are so many ways I can say of how the book was written, but it comes down to marvelous,fantastic, beautiful, etc.
I am Mexican, and the way that the characters thought, talked, laugh, pray, joked, basically everything that they did felt so familiar in my heart.
I highly recommend this book to everyone, especially those who would like to take a glimpse in the Mexican culture.
Victor Villasenor has traced three generations of his Latino family's history in this book and their migration from Mexico to the U.S. Through tragedies, losses, trials and successes it traces their ability to keep their faith, drive, love, and humor as a suture that binds the family.
She says..."You must gain faith in the basic good of mankind and reach out and take the hand of God....Not to fall to the devil's temptation of despair and darkness and these easy thoughts of hate and destruction, but to see beyond these and reach for the stars with the conviction of mind and soul that we, the human species, can only survive in our own house, when we have made peace within ourselves and then with all our fellow human beings on earth!" Throughout his family history saga, Victor Villasenor provides a positive tone.
Already being an "I love Mexico" buff this wasn't a hard book to get into but it was really one of the best historical novels I've ever read.
It starts near the beginning of the Mexican Revolution when the two main lovers in the story (the author's parents)are both young children living in separate towns in Mexico.
The story quickly gets brutal as the two families flee what I never realized was a particularly bloody civil war only to arrive to the United States at a time when the racism against Mexican was truly unchecked.
In the beginning of the book it starts of with Espirito a poor man that tries to sell sweet water to help his people with food and clothing.When he tries to trade in the water the man rejects his offer.
La Lluvia de Oro is a place in Mexico North Central where it is surrounded by mountains where they discover a vein of gold that could change the environment in just a little time.
It all leads up to a group of generations that struggle an example for all families that travel for a better life.
I would definitely recommend this book to people that love hearing generation stories.
I was a bit disappointed that the author's generation was not covered in nearly as much detail, even though he would have had his own memories to draw from, instead of having to conduct interviews.What happened to: Duel, Mark, the "Tom Mix" fellow (what was his deal, anyway?), his cousins (Juan Salvador's nephews), the daughter left behind by the redhead, Archie (and Carlota)?
I wondered if he originally wrote it in Spanish because of particular turns in phrases, but he says he wrote it in English on paper.
So many stories left untold.I guess one would just have to buy his next book...
This book was a little of what I expected and a lot of what I didn't.
The book was all these things and so much more.
Throughout the book, we learn of the horrors of war, the drama and dysfunction that meets many families along the way, and the incredible spiritual power behind two women who raised their families up out of the hate and taught them about love.
Throughout the book, even at the darkest moments, there are spiritual lessons being learned and love is shown as a tool that grows both our hearts and minds...{Read more at http://www.biculturalmom.com}
This book speaks to me.
The culture, the choices, the reality of our life is all in there.
There are very limited books that can bring this all together without seeming fake and everything in this book was so real I could feel it.In a time when people tend to omit the "undesirable" parts of family history this story tells it all.
I only wish there were more pictures (I am not even joking) I would have liked to see any pictures of his great grandma and more of his parents before they got married.
This would make a great book for Mexican American Culture studies.
This book was entertaining, but the writing was poor. Specifically, the author used way too much foreshadowing. It was annoying. And the characters were pretty evil, especially the two Mexican mothers, who bugged me to no end.
Villasenor weaves the lives of his father and mother into a compelling narrative that makes it a feat to stop reading.Set during the Mexican revolution, RoG depicts the hardships Mexican went through due to the turmoil and bloodshed caused by the revolution.
Family is a fundamental part of a Mexican's life, and it is reflected in this book.
This book sounds like one of those stories Mexican grandmothers tell their grandchildren.
All things considered, this book is not at all like the caca it often mentions.RoG makes me proud of the hardships fellow Mexicans surpassed.
I was completely lost (in a good way) in this story of the author's family.
This book demonstrates the importance of family stories, family heritage, family legacy.
The love comes pouring out as the author tells the story of his mother and father.
I am in love with Villasenor's family and so happy to have the author share his family's legacy with me.
I only wish there had been more pictures in the book to get a good idea of what the family looked like.
I look forward to reading more by this author.
Victor Villasenor is dyslexic and has written a great autobiography called Burro Genius that describes his miserable experience in school (and how many rejection letters he received before ever getting a book published). My midwife recommended Rain of Gold to pass the time while I was awaiting the birth of my baby. I loved this book. Villasenor traces the story of his family on both his mother's and his father's side, leading up to how they met and married. The beautiful storytelling completely draws you in. I was sad when I hit the last page...
La lluvia de Oro...puede leer en espanol tambien.I read this book back during the undergrad years, and absolutely fell in love with it. I hesitate to call it fiction, because it it based on the stories of the author's grandparents journey from Mexico to the U.S. I saw Victor Villasenor speak, and he said that as a child, he always assumed his grandparents were making the stories up, since they were so far-fetched, however after returning the Mexico and following their stories, he came to find out they were true.
Thanks to my sis-in-law Stacey's recommendation, I didn't get to live a life of having never read this book.
I soaked in the beautiful descriptions of Mexico and the rich culture of Lupe and Juan's families, and I fell in love with their stories as each page to me closer to their wedding.
When they said I do, I felt like I had suffered, rejoiced, and grown with them in their journeys.
It was remarkable to look back to where the tale began and how far we all had grown and changed.
The best part is that this was a true story!
Remarkable.
Don't miss out on reading this!
I really enjoyed this book, in the way that I did when reading Steinbeck’s Grapes of Wrath.
I enjoyed the sweeping, multi-generational scope of this Mexican-American family’s story.
Countless times I found myself shocked in disbelief, or laughing, or shaking my head at both the events of the story and the lovable characters.
And I have to say, Dona Margarita is probably my favorite character in all the nonfiction I’ve read.
The book is not perfect, as other reviewers have noted, but it tells an important story that is shared by so many immigrant and refugee families.
For example, the descriptions of the ways the mexicanos were treated by some Northern American gringos, whether in Mexico or in the U.S..
He is careful to warn the reader in his foreword of the ubiquitous presence of miracles and discussions of the devil and God as movers in the narrative: they were perceived as real forces in the lives he is describing, so there was no other way to tell their stories.
One theme that stretches through the book (and which the author also dealt with in a short fiction work) is the  macho  concept that is such a driving force in the lives of mexicanos.
Men are concerned with three things in this life, love, money and alcohol.
We are always striving for love, searching for money, and addicted to alcohol.
To find love you need a good wife from a good family.
Most of us don't want to be religious.
Yet we always expect our spouses to be religious and have good manners.
We expect that their parents have given them the best schooling on the planet.
Juan Salvador and Lupita Guadalupe fall in love in America.
The latter a pious woman brought up under strict religious laws of her mother Dona Guadalupe.
While reading a review of The Hummingbirds Daughter, a book on my want-to-read list, I was reminded of Rain of Gold which I read almost twenty years ago.
The pleasure and grief and great interest I felt while reading it have stayed with me.
One of the reviewers of Hummingbirds Daughter said it felt like a series of stories the author told while sitting around a campfire.
That is how I felt Villasenor told the story.
I know it is a book I will enjoy reading again some day but in the meantime I have carried many of his tales with me as I live and reflect on life.
A story of two families ravaged by war who were forced again from their homes into a new country that needs them while at the same time doesn't want them.Listening to the way life events are explained in the book, one can't help but wonder if the hand of God made everything happen so a specific man, Juan, would meet a specific woman, Lupe, and the author would come to life.
The two family lives and journeys are a great story that can be read over and over.Rain of Gold is the first part of the story, I already ordered the second part to learn about Juan and Lupe's journey together.
Just not getting all the great reviews for this book.
I'm reading it for my book club and ugh!
It's plod, plod, plod, trudge, trudge, trudge...one voice for all the main characters, and a simplistic writing style.
Phrases such as "Lupe found her truelove," make me want to gag.Update:I've just completed my reading of this tome (and it was a TOME).
The author displayed a truly crisp writing style in his 6 1/2 pages of notes.
I suspect he didn't need 552 pages to tell his story...perhaps 252..?
Rain of follows Juan Salvador and Lupe Gomez (the author's parents) and their families on very different journeys through the hard times of the Mexican Revolution and into the U.S. They meet new challenges and find each other as they adjust and learn to make a life in this new country.Villasenor is an impressive writer who pulls a reader into the story immediately!
The novel challenges the reader to experience the harsh realities of the characters' hardships and triumphs.
Villasenor's adherence to myth, religion and a little of the magical paints a vivid image of a people -- survivors not only of physical challenges, but spiritual ones as well.
full 5 stars and a full ❤This book is amazing.
It will take you through an emotional roller coaster.
It will let you experience poverty and misery, hunger and hatred, prejudice and all things bad done in the name of survival.
But it will also show you love and redemption, strong family ties and kindheartedness as well as all things good that make us humans.
It will make you question most of what you thought was right and wrong as well as humanity itself.
It is non-fiction and based on real events but reads like a novel, beautifully written at that.
This book gave me a better sense of what happened during the Mexican revolution.
Victor Villasenor captured every moment perfectly.
Not only were you able to visualize what he was writing about, but you were also able to feel what his family went thru to survive.
It was touching to read about two families striving to survive during a war and in the end come together.
It truely captured the power of love and the importance of family during time of war and time of hardship.This book is based on family hertiage and it captured the story of survival and of love.
This has been on my reading list for a while now.
I finally had the courage to tackle the 500+ pager and was very pleasantly surprised at how the book surpassed my expectation.
Having tapatio blood in me I can't help but have a swell of pride after having read this book.
The book read so smoothly, with elements of humor, faith, and one of my favorites, history.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who hasn't read it.
While I was sad to have finished the book, I'm happy to know that there is a sequel to it :)
This is quite possibly the best book everr! It is the true story of the author's parents and how they came to the United States, meet one another, and fell in love. The greatest immigrant story I have ever read. It is so filled with unbelievable miracles, it is truly inspriring. You really feel for all the characters, even when they do stupid things (as it serves to make them very real). I laughed and cried so hard in this book, I just can't say enough for it. Total must read for everyone!
This book literally changed my life. It was given to me when I was a teenager and I devoured it. As a brown kid growing up in the same region as Victor Villaseñor it was amazing to hear someone tell a story that at that time - I was sure was in some way similar to or parallel to my own. This book opened my eyes to the importance of telling, recording and sharing my own stories. I shared it with my younger brothers who hated to read and even they read this as young teenagers. I recommend sharing it.
