https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5345.The_Innocent_Man
I've enjoyed a few Grisham's in my day, and of course seen a few of the films...
But this book is stunning, and it's his first non-fiction.I myself practice criminal law, and of course if you asked me, I'd say there are bad cops out there, and bad prosecutors, and bad defense attorneys and bad judges, but I would not have imagined the devastating travesty that unfolds on these pages.This is a story of small town justice going way south.
It wasn't vigilante but it wasn't far off.
3.5 stars In this non-fiction book John Grisham tells the shocking and disheartening story of two men who were wrongfully convicted of rape and murder in Oklahoma.Ron Williamson, born in 1953, grew up in a loving Christian family in Ada, Oklahoma.
At about this time he became friends with Dennis Fritz, who became his partying buddy.Then in 1982 a young woman named Debbie Carter was brutally raped and murdered in her apartment in Ada. The police did a less than thorough investigation and - in a major instance of bungling - gave a pass to Glen Gore, who had been harassing Debbie and was known to be violent toward women.
I preface this review by saying that John Grisham is one of my favorite authors of all time.
Despite that, this was possible the worst book I have ever forced myself to finish.
I finished it only because it was a Grisham novel, but it was downright awful.
It is my understanding that this was Grisham’s first non-fiction book.
The book reads like a poorly written legal memo with insane amounts of unnecessary detail.
I was utterly disappointed and would warn anyone who loves Grisham not to read this book because it may ruin your opinion of a great author.
I always feel a little guilty when starting a Grisham book as I know I will still be reading ten hours later...but at least this one is a true story so I feel like I learned something.The author is trying to shine a light on potential miscarriages of justice in America specifically the small town of Ada, Oklahoma--those in prison and on death row who really shouldn't be there.
Being non-fiction, it is also well researched--the author spent a lot of time with many of those involved in these cases and investigated the culture of small town Oklahoma.
Tačiau greitai gavau komentarų, jog yra dar viena - John Grisham "Nekaltasis".
Būtent šie du vyrai buvo apkaltinti Debros Sju Karter nužudymu be jokių realių įkalčių ir įrodymų.
Ronas ir Fricas buvo visiškai nekalti, o kalėjime prasėdėjo 11 metų.
Lygiai taip pat ir negalėtų, bet ...) po 11 metų vyrai buvo išleisti, o tikrasis žudikas pasodintas už grotų.
Neabsurdiška?Nors prieš pradedant skaityti "Nekaltąjį" žinai kas apie ką ir kuo baigsis, tai nėra istorijos esmė.
Aš negaliu ir nenoriu įsivaizduoti kaip reikėjo tai ištverti.
Taip, jie gavo dideles pinigines išmokas dėl teismo klaidos, bet kas iš to?
I assume he did this to make his book more compelling, but I felt he was dishonest in his portrayal of the "facts", and because of that this book isn't entirely "non-fiction".I still respect Grisham's writing ability, and will continue to enjoy his crime/law novels, but I honestly feel he unjustifiably did a great disservice to Petersen and the other investigators on the case in order to strengthen his argument that Ron Williamson and Dennis Fritz were railroaded by corrupt officials.
Despite Grisham's claims in the novel, and while there was indeed an injustice done to Williamson and Fritz, the facts in the case show that they were not viciously prosecuted by officials who refused to see the truth.
After I’ve read this, I am left with a couple of thoughts about law enforcement personnel who would go to extreme measures to solve a case even at the expense of prosecuting the non-guilty – can they really be that bad to the core, or are they just so much in a hurry to resolve a case, that even a half-baked investigation will do?
These questions I ask are not only for the ones doing the investigation; it transcends to the prosecution, to the highest court, and even to the defense lawyers as well – it’s the whole system.
Years later, they were finally cleared, and proven innocent.Aside from Grisham's latest two books, this is the only book of his that I haven't read before now for the sole reason that it's a Non-fiction.
I think that's one of the top reasons why Grisham wrote this book, for us to care about Ron. Still it took me a month to finish this book.
And maybe I was mad few times while reading and not becaus eof the writer, Grisham merely told us the story, but because of what's happening to Ron. I really, truly cared for him.
Started off slow but once half way through it picked up. Different set up for John grisham.
It showed how several innocent men were convicted of murder and that in reality, one is really guilty until proven innocent rather than the other way around.
It is a very sad documentary about a talented high school athlete who really ruined his life with drinking, drugs and got framed for murder, and developed mental and physical illness.
It's unbelievable how these innocent men spent 12 years in prison while the appeals courts kept upholding the verdict in spite of all the bungling and lack of evidence in the first trial.
I recommend this to anyone interested in legal thrillers, the justice system, or prison life.
Onvan : The Innocent Man: Murder and Injustice in a Small Town - Nevisande : John Grisham - ISBN : 385517238 - ISBN13 : 9780385517232 - Dar 360 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2006
I preferred this (and Time to Kill) because he deviated from his usual "prescriptive" writing.
Very moving account of the real life murder of a young woman in Ada, Oklahoma in 1982 and the subsequent wrongful conviction of two men who weren't exonerated with DNA evidence until 1999.
مرد معصوم: ترجمه: فریده مهدوی دامغانیداستان وکیلی نابینا، موکلی دیوانه، دستگاه قضایی خودستا، پلیسهایی فاسد، و عدالت، که به مسلخ میرود. «ران ویلیامسون» جوانی با آرزوی تبدیل شدن به بزرگترین ورزشکار ایالت «اوکلاهما»، نوجوانی را طی میکند، در عنفوان جوانی یک بازیکن بیسبال با آیندهی روشن میتواند باشد، ولی مزایای شهرت را وامینهد و به بیراهه رانده میشود. آسیبهای جسمانی، در کنار افراط در نوشیدن مشروبات الکی و مصرف مواد مخدر، زندگی ورزشاش را خیلی زود به انتها میرساند. زندگیای که میتوانست سرشار از افتخار ب
اداره آگاهی و دادگستری شهر، درمانده و ناتوان از حل معمای قتل، زیر فشار افکار عمومی، و برای رهایی از مخمصه، به دنبال شخصی می­گردند که با پرونده­سازی بتوانند، او را مجرم جلوه دهند، و چه کسی بهتر از جوانی که به سرعت از ورزشکاری موفق، به دائم­الخمری بی­کار، سقوط کرده، و نیز مشتری همیشگی همان کلوبی بوده، که مقتول نیز در همانجا مشغول به کار بوده است.
چندین سال حبس، در سلول «صف مرگ»، بیماری روانی «ران» را تشدید می­کند، و چون بیمار روانی را نمی­توان اعدام کرد، پس قانون، ناچار می­شود اجازه بستری­شدن وی را در کلینک بیماران روانی، صادر کند.
Grisham is both expert and storyteller, and he also happens to sell a helluva lot of books (and for good reason)."The Innocent Man" is the true crime tale of a murder in small-town Oklahoma.
With no solid leads, the cops basically decide they will make the evidence fit the bill for a local drifter/alcoholic/manic-depressive/schizophrenic named Ronnie.
Then, impossibly, a second murder happens in Ada, again with no solid leads and little evidence.
Grisham recounts, in excruciating and thoroughly researched detail, how the cops and prosecutors bungled the cases, and how not one, not two, not three, but FOUR people were wrongly convicted for two different murders and sent to death row (two of whom remain there still, despite overwhelmingly evidence that their "confessions" were both forced and implausible).
This not what I expected? The NETFLIX “documentary” seemed slow, it is a “documentary” but I expected more “drama” like a typical Grisham movie....?Netflix - The Innocent Man TrailerThe True Story Behind The Innocent Man's Most Gruesome Murder - website link - 12/14/2018
Luego de ello, no pudo conservar otros empleos, desperdició un talento innato para ventas y se agravaron sus problemas con la bebida.Así pues, la narración de hechos reales no es fácil pues puede caerse en la tentación de idealizar a la persona sobre la que ésta gira, error en el cual no se incurre en el presente libro.John Grisham ya había tratado la pena de muerte, con maestría en Cámara de gas (escrito en 1994, también existe una película basada en este libro protagonizada por Gene Hackman y Chris O’Donnell).
With this, Grisham then points to a modern “lynching” attempt by focusing mainly on one man, Ron Williamson, who came to suffer the injustice of being wrongfully convicted.This book is about the conviction and exoneration of Williamson and his friend Dennis Fritz (convicted as an accomplice) in a small town in the United States.
The mystery of this book is how people like Ron Williamson and Dennis Fritz can be convicted of a murder where there is a such scant evidence while a more obvious suspect is left uninvestigated.
I just wish that the author had taken the approach of presenting both sides of the story rather turning it into a soapbox against the wrongdoers - i.e. the Prosecutors, Police and Prison Staff.
There are always two sides to every story, and I believe that Grisham wanted to portray them - I just wish I could have heard from both directly.
I want to see for myself the man he is outside of his job and how this murder effected his personal life.
The best Grisham novel in years. As a criminal defense lawyer myself, I am interested in reading of miscarriages of justice. My father in-law on the other hand, is a retired police officer and he simply found the book to be distasteful. In my practice I have found that most people do not believe that people can be wrongfully convicted or that crown attorneys (district attorneys in the us) or police officers may press matters through the system for reasons that are not related to justice. This work is certainly worth a read as it rings with truth.
John Grisham set aside his usual fiction and wrote this nonfiction novel (2006) about Ron Williamson, a former baseball player who returned to his home town of Ada, Oklahoma.
Already stigmatized as the town "burnout," once Williamson was accused of murder there seemed to be no getting out of it, though the evidence for the crime was sketchy at best.
While this book lacks the homeric intensity of Grisham's best novels, it has a lot to say about how law enforcement can be used -- and misused -- to indict and persecute those whose chief sin seems to have been an ability to serve as a convenient scapegoat.
My new years resolution will be to not impulse buy books from Tesco. This was ok but by page 400 i was bored. I skimmed the last 100 pages. I'll give true crime books a rest for a while.
It's about an horrendous travesty of justice in my own state against two innocent men which explored the all-too common occurance of incarceration and even execution of those who never had anything to do with the crime(s) in question.Upon doing a little more research, I discovered that the author Mr. Grisham, may not have not done the sterling job I thought he did in researching and presenting the facts in this case.
There is very little dialogue (as one might expect from a non-fiction report of the facts), and not a single spoken line for the first third of the book it seemed.The story told in the pages is a compelling one however.
Perhaps Grisham wanted to honor this man in particular, and thus told as much detail of his life story as he possibly could.
While I enjoyed the end of the book much more than the beginning, I found that the sad story, the complete incompetence, the frustration of the wrongful convictions...
You are great Grisham and I love you, but this was probably one of the worst books I have ever forced myself to finish.Despite that, I want to give this book five stars for the research and relevance.Nice try for doing a non-fiction novel though! :)
BAUSTI NEGALIMA PASIGAILĖTITurbūt ne kartą girdėtas pasakymas ir klausimas : kur, tam tikroje situacijoje, kablelį padėtumete jūs?Šioje knygoje pasakojama tikra istorija apie tai, kaip ne vietoje padėtas kablelis sugriovė ne vieną gyvenimą.1983 metais, mažame Ados miestelyje, savo namuose, rasta išprievartauta ir nužudyta Debra Siu Karter.Po penkis metus trukusio policijos "tyrimo" ( atsiprašau, kabučių padėti tiesiog neįmanoma) suimti ir nuteisti du asmenys - Ronas Viljamsonas ir Denisas Fricas.Nors abu savo kaltę kategoriškai neigė, tačiau abėjingi advokatai, melagingi kalėjimo skundikų parodymai, padirbti įkalčiai, baisiai atmestinai atlikti tyrimai ir užsispyrę tyrėjai pasiekė savo - Ronas buvo nuteistas mirties bausme, o Denisas įkalinimu iki gyvos galvos.
Grisham describes the town perfectly when he says, “Had it not been for two notorious murders in the early 1980s, Ada would have gone unnoticed by the world.” In this book, the author, John Grisham, takes you through all of the details of the murder and explains why Ron Williamson was wrongly accused.
After a fight one night in which neither could remember what it was about, Dennis left Ada and went to live with his mom in Kansas City.
One night at the coachlight when Ron and Dennis were not there, a girl named Debra Sue Carter was raped and murdered after being seen with Glen Gore.
Love that John Grisham heard about this case after the convicted murder, Ron Williamson, had died precisely 20 years after the crime in 2002.
A frequent drunk and mentally unstable character well known around town, the cops latched on to him and another local man as they failed to make any progress in solving the brutal death of a young woman in Ada, Oklahoma.
It took 5 years but the two were eventually convicted despite solely circumstantial evidence presented at trial.
It's an infuriating glimpse at how easily injustice can be served and how long an inmate can go without proper mental or physical attention, especially on death row.
This is the first non-fiction work of John Grisham. After reading this Book i feel bad about all those who are wrongly convicted and pass through the pain that Ron Williamson passed through. The question i ask myself is, if there is bad policing in developed countries what about in developing countries like mine?
This was a well-written and researched book about two true-crimes in Ada, OK which sent 4 innocent men to prison, one barely missing execution by five days. Hard to read about however. It sent me to Google to learn more about the Innocent Project which tries to get innocent prisoners exonerated.
