https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127459.The_Sweet_Far_Thing
This was okay, definitely not as good as the other two books in the series primarily because it was so unnecessarily long. I was pretty bored. Gemma was also much more of an unlikable character than usual. But overall I enjoyed the trilogy a lot!
I definitely expected a little bir more maturity to be given out by those girls, at least by Gemma, because generally when a person is given a large amount of responsibility, despite their age, and consciously decides that they need to live up to it, they don't act like retarded and petty 12 year olds.Here are just a few of my troubles...Why the crap does Kartik turn into a tree?
Obviously Circe was evil, but how did she turn out to be so much better than the the people who were supposed to be good and why did she make so much more sense?
I really got into the second one as the plot became more complex, Gemma came into her own powers, Felicity and Ann's stories became more layered, and poor beautiful Pippa was relegated to the Realms indefinitely.
And it does capture the extremely bittersweet feel of the last portion of the book.
Instead of making good use of everything she fought for in Rebel Angels, Gemma spends the entire novel trying to decide whether or not to do what she decided to do at the end of the last book.
This was by far my favorite in the series, and I think a lot of it had to do with what Libba Bray was willing to have happen to her characters.
I actually really loved how much effort Bray put into fleshing out the Victorian culture for her readers, and didn't mind Gemma's brooding.
I can't say much more without spoiling it, though.The ending was definitely not a perfect, happy conclusion, but it felt fitting for the series.
Personally, I found the conclusion beautiful and touching, and it really made the series better as a whole than if she had done a cookie-cutter "look, it's a happy ending!" for us.
But alas, Bray chooses to ruin her own rather original series with this endless and bizarre last installment.I've read quite a few reviews and know how many people are disappointed with the ending.
In fact, the more I think of the details of Kartik's death, the less I understand what and why exactly happened to him.
If the Tree still holds on its evil power, how does Kartik's sacrifice change anything?
I understand Bray wanted to give us her opinion on about every women’s issue out there, but it doesn’t translate into a good book.Overall, a disappointing conclusion to an imaginative and original series.
WrensReads Review:This was a reread of a reread of a reread et cetera (literally can’t tell you how many times I have put myself through this book).
There are so many things going on in this book that are just on the side, but are so important to the characters and why they make the decisions that they make.I will let you know that some people believe there is some “fat shaming” in this, and I can see where they are coming from, but you also have to see when the book was written and what time period this is in.
Series review video: https://youtu.be/a2qPNQILwqEThe good:Nay.The bad:Wayyy too long. I was bored. The thing wasn't even resolved (they won a battle but not the war). The worst bleeping love triangle I've ever read.The problematic:Fat shaming. Horrible attitudes toward disability. Sexual orientation used as a plot twist. Issues of non-consent were never addressed. Sexual abuse backstory to excuse a character's meanness.
If any of those elements were present in this book, they got lost under pages and pages of sub-par writing; I don't come to books like this for Great Literature, but the others were enjoyable even when I rolled my eyes.
Ultimately, I didn't really care what happened to any of the characters, and the supposed-to-be-heart-wrenching twist towards the end did not wrench my heart - but I did manage to roll my eyes.
Sweet Far Thing by Libba Bray*contains spoilers*I finished the final installment of the Gemma Doyle trilogy last night.
I will admit that the book ended very well but I was still very angry.I have never cried while reading before, and I have told my friends that I don't understand why people do.
When Kartik died and in the end when Ann and Felicity got what they really wanted, I was very emotional.
I look forward to reading whatever Libba Bray writes next, but can't imagine a character being a strong, confused, and brave as Gemma.
I will be talking in detail about how this book made me feel and if you haven't read it yet it is possible that my feelings will give away a crucial plot point.
With that all I can say is I feel raw.
Absolutely raw.
The ending is by far one of the most brilliant, brave things I have EVER read, that does not mean that it wasn't absolutely horrible to read.
From absolute highs, to absolute lows (and I do mean absolute), I loved riding the roller coaster of it all.
Read it.
Love it.
OMG I CRIED THE ENDING WAS PERFECT! I DONT KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH MYSELF
“And that is how change happens.
One gesture.
One moment at a time.”   I have been reading this book for 2 weeks and I finally finished reading this book at lunch.
I am currently in class and since I finished all of the things that I need to do, I thought that I would write a quick review on this book.
This book was beautiful, I loved it so much, I was so sad when I finished it.
I can't believe I finished the book, it was so crazy and so much happened.
This book is the last book in
I can't believe I finished the book, it was so crazy and so much happened.
Some people were upset with the ending of this book and I was too, but I loved this book so much because there were so many things that I didn't believe would happen in this book.
I felt like one of the things that I didn't like about the book was the decisions Gemma made.
She had Felicity and Ann, but I felt like they weren't that supportive at times and they weren't always there for Gemma.
The ending was bittersweet but I still loved the book.
The only one who does learn anything from using the magic is Anne.Allowing the characters to use magic with no negative consequences, and creating girls who are too modern for their time, and allowing them to have fun and get what they want may be exactly Bray’s point.
I am totally willing to admit that I am missing something here, because again, I find the magic muddled and confusing.I read a rumor that Bray killed him because she didn’t want readers to think you needed a man to be happy.
It is simply amazing.Girls finding their wings, and finding their light and dark corners.
lol, it is beautifully written, this author does not twist the truth, which i love.
Girls kick ass, revenge, love, affairs, deceit, all that good stuff.Here are some of my favorit quote, go to the authors website, she is quite a character, i love her writing :]]"In each of us lie good and bad, light and dark, art and pain, choice and regret, cruelty and sacrifice.
We’re all looking glasses, we girls, existing only to reflect their images back to them as they’d like to be seen.
I’m cracking open.--Libba Bray(the trilogy)
And Gemma has still not seen Kartik, and his whereabouts are also a constant strain on her thoughts.When all else fails Gemma feels she will never return to the realms until a mysterious stone is found in the midst of the East Wing construction.
Which turns out to be a secret door in which she has seen in her visions complements of a Miss Wilhelmina Wyatt, former Spence Lady and author of A History of Secret Societies.Once back in the Realms, Gemma cannot deny the changes that are happening around her, but yet she is still not ready to share the power.
I couldn’t put it down, and now that’s it over I fear I will miss these girls.
My old review for this sucked so I'll attempt to sum up my thoughts in a slightly better way.Well, this book is kind of near and dear to my heart because I was reading it on the night right before my little brother was born.
(Awww.) So, whenever I think of this book, I think of that.
I also remember how it kept me up until like 3 in the morning because it was so scary and thrilling and awesome and whatnot.
The ending was a bit frustrating, but ...
:) Also she signed my copy of this book.
Out of the three books in this series, this one was probably the best. It contained more of a well-developed, central plot, stronger characters, more twists and turns than one would have expected. BUT DANG WAS IT LONG. Eight hundred pages is too long for a YA book, if you ask me.I really do think Libba stepped up her game with this, though. For once, I actually felt a sense of connection to the realms: they weren't weak and flimsy feeling as they had been for me in the previous two books. I real
And character development is my favorite.The most notable developing in this book pertains to Mrs. Nightwing, Ann, Felicity, and Fowlson.Mrs. Nightwing's transformation from the strict, Victorian schoolmarm to the strict, Victorian schoolmarm who knows about a secret layer of worlds besides our own, was probably one of my favorite things about this trilogy.
She did very well dealing with them, and I think it's important to remember how they affect anyone, in any time or culture.I was also pleased with how Libba turned Fowlson from (view spoiler)[devious bad guy to reluctant good guy.
Seeing that this book is the last one, I expected to have a lot more resolution to the story of Gemma Doyle.
I kept thinking about what Gemma could do and "why doesn't she do this" with her magic.
I really think what Gemma chose to use her magic for was odd.
I kept thinking, "she is still a teenager, so maybe that is how a teenager would act?" I found myself exhausted at the end of this book.
There were beautiful parts as well and they all involved Gemma and Kartik's romance!
In the final book of the Gemma Doyle trilogy, the Order, the Rakshana and the creatures of the realms all want one thing - the magic.
I am sad there will be no more books in the series but in love with the ones we've been given.Libba Bray seems to possess a magic of her own, peppering words on a page and conjuring a world that is believable and engaging, filled with complex, fully realized characters that are sometimes sympathetic and sometimes repellent.
I think it is a great testament to an author’s skill in writing prose, when they can evoke within you such emotions that makes you want to throw your book across the room, when the characters are being stupid, blind, or just acting in ways that are so frustrating you want to scream at them.
In my opinion, what also makes for a good book is when you want to do nothing but read their story, when nothing else matters but getting to the end.
I think Libba Bray has written three wonderful books and her magic in writing tripped me in her web.
Oh man, the feels and nostalgia. This series will forever be a favorite. I realize that this book was definitely way too long (probably 300 pages too long) but that honestly doesn't make me love it less. Gemma was a full-on badass toward the end. The other girls were total turds for most of the book though. Overall, I like the ending (minus one sad sad thing) and would totally read more if she wrote more. Just sayinnnnnnn.
I thought the story was compelling, but if you're looking for a book appropriate for you teenage girls this is not it.
So much is currently being done to try and change public opinion especially in hollywood to homosexuality and I find that this book ads to that sentiment.
If you feel homosexuality is wrong I would not recommend this book especially to your teenagers.
There are also some pretty dark moments in the book that I thought too heavy for teenagers.
If you take these things out I would have liked the books far better.
WOW.Spoilers ahead.The Rose of Battle: By William Butler YeatsROSE of all Roses, Rose of all the World! The tall thought-woven sails, that flap unfurled Above the tide of hours, trouble the air, And God’s bell buoyed to be the water’s care; While hushed from fear, or loud with hope, a band 5With blown, spray-dabbled hair gather at hand. Turn if you may from battles never done, I call, as they go by me one by one, Danger no refuge holds, and war no peace, For him who hears love sing and never cea
30Our long ships loose thought-woven sails and wait,	For God has bid them share an equal fate;	And when at last defeated in His wars,	They have gone down under the same white stars,	We shall no longer hear the little cry	 35Of our sad hearts, that may not live nor die.Alright.
I'm very sad to see the Gemma Doyle trilogy come to an end, but Bray sure took it out with a bang in The Sweet Far Thing.Rather than talk about what happens in the novel, I want to touch upon one thing that really held my interest throughout all three novels: the discontent that Gemma feels over the restraints and limitations placed upon girls and women.
Bray takes the opportunity through Gemma, Felicity, and Ann to make her female readers aware of the expectations placed upon women during that era.
With that said, this book is a great book, especially the ending.
After 800 and something pages I felt very attached to the characters and the story, and I guess I did not really get that in the other two books.
I loved seeing how the girls grew up and what they came to be.
It's a very well-written book with great characters and the ending ties it up perfectly.
This book is definitely my favorite out of the series which is also why I gave it 5 stars, but the series as whole did not exactly captivate me.
Also- LOVE the theme of GIRL POWER!
314 Libba Bray built up to the finale of her Gemma Doyle trilogy with a pair of quality novels, but neither compares to the ambitious excellence of The Sweet Far Thing.
There's a civil war to be waged over the transformative magic of the realms, a war destined to incur casualties on both sides before Gemma can choose her own path in life and move forward in the resolve that if she fails, it's better to do so living out her ideals rather than those of others.
And even though it is a quick read in terms of style, Bray seems to want to be J.K. Rowling and imagines that she has created this huge world here with lots of intricate characters and terrain and oodles of plot twists in the last book of the trilogy.
And then when you got to open road (like a stunning revelation about one of the main characters...that had been obvious for all three books but had to be hammered out as clearly as possible in this last one lest we misunderstand...), you wished you could hide in the bushes.I will say that I very much enjoyed the denouement.
But I was annoyed overall that a book I read purely for fun offered so little of it.
20 1/2 hours of torture, knowing what I do, but I'm doing it, anyway. Because the story is so lovely in its sadness and life isn't all sunshine and rainbows and at least I can appreciate the fact that Libba Bray didn't lie to me about it.ETA: Not quite as sad the second time around...I found it more hopeful than anything else. So glad I took the time to revisit this amazing series.
Yes, right after book 2, I immediately read The Sweet Far Thing because I want to finish this series and absorb every detail as much as possible.
The best series ever!The girls are back and the Realms become more sinister than ever in Book 3, The Sweet Far Thing.
I honestly did not see the Pip/Fee thing coming.
I never thought I’d have a girl crush on a fictional character but there she is.And Ann, Ann, Ann..
Girl, I’m glad you finally grew a backbone.
Once Gemma found the dagger she went to her.
*sobs*I've never cried so much over a book/character in my life.
This wasn't even a sniff here, a little sob there.
I felt hurt.This book was amazing.
Because of that and because Libba Bray managed to make me feel so much about this book and that character, I gave it five stars.
I don't know what else to say, except that I just loved this book, and I wish this series could go on forever.
I am very grateful that when I started this series all the books had come out and I owned them all, or I honestly think I would have died.
amazing.
