https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16158542-the-boys-in-the-boat
I remember holding Joe's Olympic gold medal long ago when I first married his son, the first and last such medal I have ever held.
But after reading this book I realize how very special those boys were, and how important it was that it all came together, the very special men who all had hard upbringings, who had to scrape and scratch for every morsel they ever got, the now legendary boat maker and the coxswain.
I remember as a young single mother after I had divorced his son, how very warm and welcoming they were to me and how Joe would not only fix my broken down cars but would show me how he did it.
Brown juxtaposes descriptions of crew training in Seattle with national races against the IV League in Poughkeepsie; we see developments in a militarizing Germany paired with college competitions in depression-era United States; individual portraits of the “boys” (now dead) are placed alongside cameos of their coaches; he shares details of the early lives of a single oarsman, Joe Rantz, with details of his wife's parallel experiences.The 1936 Olympics in Berlin was the stuff of legend, when Jesse Owens swept four gold medals in field and track, but a Washington crew team won that summer also, against great odds.
I love books and movies that get you interested in sports you never cared about before.
Also, I love how the Olympics does the same thing.
And, with the Winter Olympics coming up, the perfect way to whet my appetite for the competition.In this case, the sport is rowing.
History buffs, sports fans, and people who love a good story about the disrespected underdog finding ultimate success in the end - this book is for you!Side note - this book also does a great job capturing the development of the Nazi regime as they rose to power while preparing for the 1936 Olympics.
Boys in the Boat is the motivational story of Joe Rantz, his wife Joyce, and the other members of the 1936 Washington University rowing team that won gold at the Berlin Olympics.
This story is partially the story of Joe's perseverance during the depression and also his rowing team's quest to make it to the Olympics and subsequent epilogue.
The story is definitely inspiring not just because the US team won gold in rowing in Berlin but because of Joe's story.
Boys in the Boat is a story about perseverance and I enjoyed it immensely.
If someone had told me I would become emotionally invested is a book about rowing, I would have thought they were crazy.
Joe Rantz's story had my mothers heart wanting to give his ten year old self a big hug.
He and the other boys wormed their way under my skin and I found myself holding my breath more than once during their races.The book went back and forth between the US and Germany.
The hard work that went into training, and of course the races, competitions between the East and West coast.
All in all I found this a stirring read, a wonderful book.
The power in this story comes from the boys' personal stories of overcoming Depression-era obstacles, so padding the book with discussions of Leni Riefenstahl and the fate of a particular German-Jewish family after Kristallnacht draws the wrong kind of contrast by putting the race in the context of world history rather than personal achievement.I'm ultimately glad I read this because of its evocation of early twentieth century Seattle and its ability to make you cheer for Joe Rantz, but I suspect it was propelled onto the bestseller list by attracting the attention of readers who perhaps don't read 25-30 nonfiction books per year and liked the drama of the Olympic win and implied impending wartime victory more than I was bothered by the author's somewhat paint-by-numbers assembly of the elements of this story.
Well, a couple of reasons: 1) It’s about rowing…No offense, it’s just not a sport I’m wowed by.
2) It’s about a group of Americans going to the 1936 Olympics in Berlin.
It’s of course about the sport - which in itself is a paradox - while the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, each member brought unique qualities and experiences to compliment each other to make a successful and cohesive crew .
It will always eclipse the event to a certain degree.But most of all, it’s an inspirational read and one that will remain most memorable to me.
This may not be my final rating of this book, but I have to put it down for a while because I find it simply boring, and I have a backlog of other books that look SO much more interesting.
Why this has achieved an average rating of 4.5 on Goodreads I don't understand, unless it all comes together in the second half.
The first half has been a struggle to get through, and I find myself resisting picking it up every day.
A great story made dull by a weak author?
I usually love books like this (e.g., "Unbroken").
Wow!!!
The books power is in the storytelling.
Starts right out on page 1These were remarkable men -their sacrifice - committed dedication - had to scape for everything -their boat wasn't just handed to them...
not all had cozy supportive families.
Joe Rantz's humanity - especially - makes you want to be a better human being yourself.
All these men were humble - with committed dedication -- they were a team.
Proud to be American!
With the American depression -the dust bowl -the rise to Hitler - tensions kept building to the end until you just want to cry.
Its moving.
The Boys In The Boat in an extremely beuatifually written account of the Universary of Washingtons's Rowing team that won a gold Metal in 1936 Berlin Olympics'I had no real desire to read a book about sport let alone read a book about rowing but something about a frinds's review here on goodreads pushed me to read this book and I am so glad I did as I loved every moment of it.I read this on Kindle (oh how I wish I owned a Hard Copy of this book) and I listened to it on audio and what wonderful narrator Edward Hermann is.
We have poverty and hard work - Joe, our focus, is very poor and works insanely hard just to afford food.We have Hitler's Germany - always a winner if you want to sell books.We have Americans triumphing on an international stage, "sticking it to Hitler," as it were.
So all those things worked in the book's favor.However, crew racing bores me.
The only drawback for me would be the actual racing - not Brown's fault, he does a stellar job of making crew sound exciting, but I'm just not very interested, despite his best efforts.I'd recommend this if you are looking for a non-fiction romp.P.S. Not available in Spanish.
Thankfully, this is not just a book about rowing and Olympic races.
The author heavily focuses on the life of one particular rower, Joe Rantz, and his story breathes so much life and soul into the book.
"And so they passed away, loved and remembered for all that they were - not just Olympic oarsmen but good men, one and all."UW Crew of 1936 at their 40th Reunion.--------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: They are almost all gone now - the legions of young men who saved the world in the years just before I was born.
This is a bit more than the story of the 1936 Olympic crew challenge by the team from the University of Washington.
While the backgrounds and histories of the other members of the 9-man crew team were also provided, Joe Rantz's story was the main focus.
By the time I got to the actual Olympic race, I felt these men had already reached heroic heights, especially Joe. Edward Herrmann was fantastic as the narrator.
This story left me inspired and will continue to do so every time I think about the team.
To be able to tell a story about an event where the outcome is known ahead of time, about a subject the reader has no interest in, the pages seemingly turning themselves and keeping one riveted all the way is some feat.
A team of nine boys, sons of loggers, shipyard workers, and farmers, whose coach would come to think of as the greatest racing crew in history, take us on a vision quest through the depression years.
Most worthy of the many comparisons to the story and race of the amazing Seabiscuit.
Really enjoyed reading about The Boys In The Boat and their quest to win US GOLD at the 1936 Berlin Olympics. While a bit heavy on the practice runs (for me) the excitement of the actual races kept me engrossed as well as the heartbreaking personal background of Joe Rantz, and his struggles to overcome adversity.Although not particularly a fan of boat racing, I found this work of non-fiction and the many tidbits of historical data laced throughout the story informative and memorable...........a truly amazing and inspirational read! 4.5 Stars.
These include the crafty and laconic head coach, Al Ubrickson, and legendary boat builder George Pocock, the guru of a Zen-like philosophy of rowing and master of techniques adapted from Thames working boatmen that he picked up from his days at Eton.Joe’s family was hurt bad by the depression.
Even after the right mixture is found, each man or woman in the boat must recognize his or her place in the fabric of the crew, accept it, and accept the others as they are.Brown brings out the truth of these conclusions among the cast of characters Joe rows with over the years preceding the Olympic meet.
I listened to The Boys in the Boat on audio, which was a good way to absorb this book.
Daniel James Brown cleverly pulls together a lot of great information, which I listened to in 40 minute increments on my walk to work every morning.
He focuses particularly on one of the oarsmen, Joe Rantz, giving a very detailed portrait of his family, background and character.
His family background is very sad, and Brown powerfully fleshes out his story, character and the importance of rowing to his life.
I loved this book.
It is a study of human struggle, teamwork, the striving for perfection.
As a former Olympic athlete, I can understand what these boys went through to achieve a dream -- and that for some, the dream comes alive as they struggle, and then the struggle only becomes more intense.
Also, set against the backdrop of the Berlin Olympics, the struggle is just that much more poignant.
My grandfather who was the official doctor of the Hungarian team in 1936, left a wonderful book for me with lots of pictures of those Olympics.
This book provides another perspective for me.
I felt like I was rowing through the Nile River getting through this book.
I wanted it to be great, I wanted it to read like a narrative story, and most of all, I wanted to connect to the characters.
I dreaded picking this book up every single time, and I slugged through until I finished (which, just by reading the title- you know how it ends).
I hated reading about rowing and the "swing" and while the writing was good, it's safe to say that this one just didn't connect for me.
Vivid part of "eternal landscape of the past" embodying the "mighty hopes that make us men" and women* Story of Glory, Evocative of Greek Mythology Jesse Owens Wins Olympic Gold in 100 meter sprint, as Hitler watches on1936 U.S. Olympic Rowing TeamYou probably already know this book is about the majestic quest of the U.S. rowing team for Olympic gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics. I doubt I can add much to persuade you to read this outstanding book of gold and glory telling a story evocative of Gr
Vivid part of "eternal landscape of the past" embodying the "mighty hopes that make us men" and women*
Story of Glory, Evocative of Greek Mythology
I doubt I can add much to persuade you to read this outstanding book of gold and glory telling a story evocative of Greek mythology, a tale of nine young men from the University of Washington, their origins, their Odyssey into a land run by evil men, and the epic of their endurance, resilience, teamwork and victory.
We can be grateful for writers like Mr. Brown, who so splendidly capture the near-mythical moments of the past.
The transcendent experience of coming together as a team doesn't happen without a struggle, and each individual needs to learn to trust his teammates and to set aside his own ego.
One of the boys, Joe Rantz, grows old, becomes an old man, and on his deathbed tells his story to the author, Daniel James Brown.
Joe says don't make the story just about me, "It has to be about the boat." The author struggles to understand what that means, but comes to appreciate that it is the sheer beauty of their endeavor, this mysterious thing that together they are able to create.
The reason why I am not into competitive team sports is not that I couldn’t care less who wins, but that I am one who doesn't and never has enjoyed working together in a group.
To understand team thinking is hard for meThe author personalizes the Olympic win through Joe Rantz, one of the American rowing crew that won the Olympic Gold in Berlin in 1936.
Particularly Joe Rantz and George Popcock, their life stories grabbed me, but plenty is told of the others so you understand how it happens they all became one.
This book had been on my TBR pile for a while and I read it as part of one of the challenges I participate in.I throughly enjoyed Brown's writing style. It made the book un-putdownable. I wanted to keep going to the end.In this sport history book you will find characters who will wrench your heart and that you keep rooting for. This rowing crew started out as rag-tag but eventually became a whole unit.Mostly, if you are feeling down, this work is very inspiring. And it can help you discover your own Forrest through the trees.
Surely one of the best books I've read, and  undoubtedly  one of the finest audiobooks ever produced. Without any bells, whistles, or voices, Edward Hermann magnificently narrates the story of 9 ordinary kids and their extraordinary path to Olympic gold. It's one of those rare works of non-fiction: one that told me the whole story, and yet left me wanting to find out so much more.
Now I live in Seattle, near what I have discovered is the hub of the West Coast rowing Mecca - University of Washington.I always keep my eye out for interesting books to read.
There is a group of people who crew a shell - a team - but rowing is not a "team" sport.
None of the people in the shell can act alone, none can row alone while the others fight off attacks by other crews.
Although President Roosevelt was not at home, they spent several hours discussing the fine art of rowing with his son FDR, Jr. who was on crew at Harvard!)You know the ending; that's why you're reading the book.
Not since Moneyball : The Art of Winning an Unfair Game and Seabiscuit: An American Legend have we had a sports book this good!
This story about the University of Washington crew team that won gold at the 1936 Olympics is fantastic and oh so much more than a book about crew, sports, or merely nine guys.
It cover the depression, collegiate crew, Leni Riefenstahl's role in the rise of Nazi power, emergent of the Western states, and the magic that can happen when individuals give their best and become a team.
Centering on rower, Joe Rantz, the book tells the story of resiliency, and is a testament of how individuals can overcome humble and tragic beginnings.
It adds "color," and such extraneous journalistic flourishes throughout the book must add over 100 pages of extraneous interest to the core history of the boys and their singular rowing experiences and victories.The best parts are about the sport of rowing sculls of which there is a lot of lore and technical information given here.
And, indeed almost 'riveting', the few scull races which these 9 boys won in Seattle, Oakland, Poughkeepsie, and then a different set of nine at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin were remarkable extraordinary athletic feats worthy of book treatment.

Brown does an immense job illustrating the life of Joe Rantz and his crew, as week as detailed descriptions of what it takes to row on a team.
Peppered into the mix are the surrounding coaching personalities, home lives and world events leading up to the Berlin Olympics.
The details of each race are immensely described and I literally found myself on the edge of my seat for the outcome while reading.
Brown did an amazing job capturing the essence and feel of each race and the surrounding emotions leading up to and including the Olympics.
5 Olympic Stars for this superb tale from the days of the Great Depression just before WWII.
Nine young men from the Pacific Northwest fight their way to an Olympic Gold Medal but when you read the book, you will be on the edge of your seat for every race as the nail-biting tension builds.The Boys in the Boat: Nine Americans and Their Epic Quest for Gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics is mainly told through the experiences of Joe Rantz, a young man who endures hardships that will amaze you.
Many of the young men have a difficult time trying to stay in university during the depression years when money was so hard to come by.
