https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29864343-rich-people-problems
Sometimes the best antidote for the craziness of the world is reading a wacky book. (It leaves my head clearer than drinking would, anyway.) Kevin Kwan's  Rich People Problems , the third in his Crazy Rich Asians series, was just the ticket. Campy, a bit melodramatic, and utterly outrageous, Kwan's tales of three generations of Chinese families, set mostly in Singapore, provides a hysterical glimpse into how the ultra-rich live."Peel away the veneer of wealth and sophistication and you'll find e
Campy, a bit melodramatic, and utterly outrageous, Kwan's tales of three generations of Chinese families, set mostly in Singapore, provides a hysterical glimpse into how the ultra-rich live."Peel away the veneer of wealth and sophistication and you'll find extremely provincial, narrow-minded people.
But Nicholas has been estranged from his grandmother after she voiced her disapproval of his marrying Rachel, whom she viewed as a common Chinese girl, so he hasn't been home to visit her in several years.With disposition of Su Yi's estate in question, her entire family heads to Tyersall Park to hopefully get into her good graces (and perhaps move up a bit in her will) before she passes.
Rich People Problems by Kevin Kwan is a 2017 Doubleday publication.Hilarity and intrigue merge to create yet another wildly entertaining installment in this fabulous series!As with the previous installments, a little time has elapsed, meaning there have been a few changes since we last touched base with all these zany characters.
Rachel and Nicholas receive word that his grandmother is suffering from congestive heart failure.
But, never fear, all the fabulous clothes, food, and destination spots are described in vivid details, and there is certainly no shortage of drama!!The way everything came together in the end suggests this is the last installment in the series.
These are so consistently fun
I received an ARC of Kevin Kwan's Rich People Problems from Netgalley and Doubleday in exchange for an honest review.In this third installation, Kevin Kwan brings back the magic I felt China Rich Girlfriend was missing.
I did not like her in the second book, and still felt like she was mostly unneeded - mainly because there are so many great characters in the book who could have used the time given to her.
Back to the great parts of this book - I continue to love the relationships between Rachel and Nick and Astrid and Charlie, and I loved that Kevin brought back Rachel's best friend too!

An amazing end to a really wonderfully charming and hilarious trilogy.
i thiiiiink this is my FAVORITE of the series???? and that's saying something since this series itself is already one of my favorites
It reminded me a lot of what I loved out of Crazy Rich Asians, the bizarre antics of the Shang-Young family, the name and label dropping and all of the deliciously decadent food.
The outlandish Edison is set out to mourn by his grandmother’s bedside in the showiest of manners, and it’s also not the last we’ve seen of the tacky Kitty Pong in her rise to fame.I loved all the vivid descriptions of the French inspired grandeur of the Tyersall Park home, and the stunning locations from the designer boutiques in France, to the sandy beaches of Asia, the buzzing food stalls of Singapore and everything in between.
With the name dropping of expensive watches, designer labels and even pop culture references, Rich People Problems shows us a world unattainable to most.
The drama was the same ol same ol, especially between Kitty and Colette and omg I was sick of it.Although a fun peek into the world of the obscenely rich, I just don't think Kwan is a great writer.
The characters are underdeveloped and their personalities are changed on a whim to create drama.
He repeatedly uses slurs throughout the series (which I don't know if this is a cultural difference but Kwan has said the book was written for an American audience, and I think that living in the US, he and some of the characters from the US would know how these things come across.) The one thing he does well is the atmosphere/setting.Content warnings: The R slur.
Nick gets a surprising call from his mother claiming that his Grandmother is going to pass away soon.
Astrid and Charlie are trying to make their relationship official.
And with her grandmother's health in question Charlie and Astrid have a long way to go.
Kitty now has to compete with Colette in her marriage as well as her social life.
I really enjoyed Nick's journey and him making amends to his grandmother.
Also his and Rachel's relationship is still going strong which was great.
I actually liked reading about some of the family members.
The situation between Kitty and Colette got way too ridiculous.
Review for book 2: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Rating: 'I agree that this series needs a K-drama adaptation 4 comedy stars' (and I'm not even a K-pop fan...)My GR friend Dyanna actually includes photos of her dream cast for the characters in her review for Crazy Rich Asians: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Favorite quote: "By sheer dumb luck, my father was born in the right place at the right moment in time--when the whole region was going through enormous, unprecedented grow
So.........I found it odd that when Eddie Chen and his family is supposed to be living in HK for at least three generations but they still have a mainland-version translation as their family name...why?PSSSS: Well, through the series, Kevin Kwan did address how people from mainland China and/or their new money class are discriminated by the other Chinese speaking communities and/or the oversea Chinese communities.
I’m so so so so so sad to leave my friends in this series.
I didn’t want this book to end so I could spend more time with them.
Overall, more emotional, with more backstory than the first two and we really sunk into the spirit of the characters and the elements that make up the glue that holds the family together.
Ugh, I’m obsessed.
But they’re all wonderful.Something to make note of was that there was a small subplot that involved questionable villification of mental illness and use of the “hysterical woman” trope which I didn’t enjoy.
Like don’t let Freud into this book please.
I'm going to miss these crazy rich Asians as I finish the third and final installment in the series.
This third book is better than the second, which got bogged down in Rachel being boring and useless, but not as good as the first.
There's also a campy effort at the end of the book to "save" the family mansion that belongs in a sitcom.
That said, this book still delivers the fun.
I enjoyed my peak into the lifestyles of Asia's rich and famous and will miss these characters.
This book is full of unexpected plot twists, hilarious and outrageous moments, and had characters I could relate to even though I can't even imagine being 1/100 times as a rich as them.
My only complaint is I seriously wish this book was longer as it's the finale and I'm sure Kevin Kwan has only told a quarter of his outrageous stories, most of which he probably experienced.
Also, Oliver T'sien (my favorite character from CRA 1 whom I lost my respects to after the CRG ending) gained back my love.
I KNOW KEVIN KWAN IS GOING TO WRITE ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I WILL EVER READ.
I've loved this series, primarily because it is outrageous, funny and over the top. New money, old money, extravagances beyond comprehension combined with family rivalry, secrecy and love stories - delicious! Add that it is centred in Singapore, provides reams of cultural education as a serious side dish to the funky fun, and the series was simply a treat of entertainment and novelty. I hope that Kevin Kwan leads readers on more adventures. The romps were "divine", and I'd like to savour another!
Rich People Problems is a fabulous read.
Kevin Kwan’s witty writing and highly entertaining characters make Rich People Problems so much fun to read.
Kwan is a master at depicting familial relationships, and with everyone descending on Tyersall Park, there is much family drama to be had.
Kwan’s descriptions of the ultra-rich lifestyles of certain characters and the outlandish behavior of others, including poor Eddie and Kitty.
Kwan is truly a master at depicting the absurdity of various characters’ lifestyles in the most hilarious manner.
Thanks to Doubleday and NetGalley for the chance to read this book.
Of course, there are elements that are sad, like Nick's grandmother on her deathbed.
Nick would have been the ideal grandchild to inherit everything since he was a favorite and a male but since he married Rachel everyone knows most likely, he's not getting anything.
With family kissing the dying grandmother's ass and fighting for anything they can grab, that over the top drama that I love comes into play...
Of course there are my two favorite characters, Astrid who is the Grace Kelly of the family and Kitty who is the dream rags to riches story...
He was one of my favorite smaller characters from Crazy Rich Asians, and I wished his extra page time allowed him to do what he does best—stir up gossip alongside the other disentranced members of Singapore’s high society.
Eddie Cheng’s newfound career as a “professional mourner,” in hopes of receiving his grandmother’s fortune, made him one of my favorite characters of this final novel—I really hope his five-star performance at the wake on pages 226-227 makes it into the movies!
In Rich People Problems, Kwan overestimates the morality (and relevance) of Nick and Rachel—just because they aren’t actively participating in Singapore’s high society, doesn’t mean they can’t be oblivious to their own immense privilege.
A disappointing, bloated mess.
The book starts off promising enough, with 3 tongue-in-cheek anecdotes about "rich people problems", but then it totally veers off course.
Part 1 is almost unreadable, as it tries way too hard to recapture the perfect blend of snark, humor, and ridiculousness of Crazy Rich Asians.
The whole book is a hot mess with so many plot holes and unnecessary story lines.
I'm glad to have finished the trilogy and know how it all ends, but the Kitty vs.
Collette story line is just too eyerollingly awful, and ends on an absolutely absurd and unnecessarily mean note.
It felt like there was just so much name/reference-dropping, but the names and references seemed less impressive than before.Nick and Rachel, having been the focus of the first two novels, were reduced to secondary characters; Rachel in particular had nothing to do.
(hide spoiler)])In addition to these side characters, Nick's grandmother, Sun Yi, was given an expanded backstory.
I'm really not a fan of pulling shit like this at the end of a series without having laid out the groundwork first; it just felt like the author needed to add some more pages to the book, so he came up with the ~mystery~ of Nick's grandmother.
The final installment in the 'Crazy Rich Asians' series, 'Rich People Problems' is exactly what the title implies.
Nick is denied acess to see his grandmother, his cousins are plotting a scheme to get Tyersall Park, Astrid is having problems in the sentimental department, Eleanor is pressuring Rachel for a grandchild and somewhere among all these scenarios, a fish gets plastic surgery.
This book differs from the others in that the reader gets background information on Su Yi and Tyersall Park itself, which was refreshing and explains so much.
I really hope Kevin Kwan follows up with Rachel and Nick's baby.
Fast paced, but still fun and a thrilling conclusion to the series. I felt a little dirty after reading this series, like one does after watching crap tv for a while, but I still couldn't put it down. I did like the ending - no wonder they are making a sequel to the movie.
Brilliant wraps up the trilogy. I swear, every single fabulous character gets a satisfying conclusion to their story arc! I am absolutely holding my breath and crossing my fingers that they make movies of the entire trilogy (I think they said they were going to . . . ?), because that would be fantastic!
I would like to see Rachel and her paternal family actually hangout in a situation not so dire.
I would like to see Rachel actually teach bc we literally never get too.
I would've liked to see Peik Lin and Allistar have a relationship.
Rachel, our original MC, was hardly in this book.
Throughout the last two books, she has been described as someone 'estranged to her husband' and, according to Charlie, 'they had been leading separate lives for years.' I just felt her character had been given the short straw, ya know?
Things she did seemed out of character from my perspective.
You guys, I cannot recommend this series enough, and this just might be my favourite book in it.Rich People Problems is OUTRAGEOUS, and outrageously funny.
It's got scandal after scandal, and Kevin Kwan has MASTERED the art of ending his chapters with a shocker, so that it is physically IMPOSSIBLE to stop reading this book until the very end.It was great to read more about Su Yi (Nick's grandma) and all of our faves, but the real scene stealers were the anti-heroes or the straight-up villains, ESPECIALLY Kitty Pong and Eddie Cheng.
I can't wait to see the movie and what Kevin Kwan will do next.PS.: there were a ton of references to the books Kevin listed on the Kitty Pong Reading Challenge!!
Review soon!
Loved it! So sad the series is over. I can feel a reading slump coming.
totally meant to have this review ready 2 weeks ago when Rich People Problems was published, but you know what?
That’s exactly what happened with Kevin Kwan’s third installment of his Crazy Rich Asians series.If you haven’t read the first 2 books, I think you need to.
I read (or listened to) Crazy Rich Asians & China Rich Girlfriend via audiobook & I LOVED them both.
Don’t forget; there is a Crazy Rich Asians movie headed your way soon & I can’t wait!Special thanks to Kevin Kwan, Doubleday Books & NetGalley for providing our copy in exchange for an honest & fair review.
I figured I'd get around to this book eventually and when I ditched another audiobook right before a flight, it was the right time for a book I knew would be fluffy and reliable. A solid entry in the series, with piles and piles of soapy plot twists. By now I'm used to the descriptions of clothing and cars and private jets. I liked the Su Yi secrets and the way the family came together again. I admit, I could keep reading a new entry in this series every couple years. They're such a palate cleanser.
All of these uber-wealthy families always look down at Middle and Lower Class.
Most assume that Money can buy happiness, then follow in pursuit of happiness.
Happiness and hard work is the journey, wealth is the destination.
Some say wealth may lead to freedom, freedom to purchase, that is.
Paparazzi and Reporters and Gossip Magazines trail you like your shadow, leaving you no freedom at all.
This book reminds me of the stubborn, gossip fed, and wealthy mothers who feed off of stereotypes.
Unfair.
They want to benefit themselves, not their kids.
Egocentric.
All their reputation.
