https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417157.Egalia_s_Daughters
So, you think our society's not sexist? Wait 'til you read this book. The author turns every aspect of our society that has any sort of a gender tinge to it inside out. Get ready to rethink the language that we use, the rituals that we observe, and the clothes that we wear.
I would say that despite this book being over thirty years old, a lot of it still resonates with the undercurrents of societal expectations these days, even if on paper we have moved toward equality in some regions.
I have yet to see men ever to have the same beauty expectation in a heterosexual relationship though, despite the "metrosexual" movement, and that was the issue that was most glaring to me throughout this book.
Es Tan bueno q da escalofríos. Nos cuentan la historia de Egalia que vendría a ser un mundo espejo en el q la sociedad es un matriarcado con todo lo q ello implica.Es sorprendente y sumamente original como el cambio de roles afecta a múltiples facetas de la vida incluida el lenguaje.Ideal para descubrir machismos interiorizados q en el rol de un hombre sueñan sencillamente ridículos.Lo haría lectura obligatoria de instituto y de vida.Altamente recomendable. El único pero? Que está descatalogado...
I read this book in my ultra-feminist college days and periodically go back to re-read it. It's funny how we don't think of many traditions in our society as 'sexist' but when we read it in the inverse (a young boy is expected to have his first sexual experience during a prom-type event, and the older, more experienced women are very aggressive in their pursuit) it sounds ridiculous. It is entertaining until you realize how ingrained sexism is in our society.
When the menwim-libbers threatened to crush the matriarchy, habitually burning their pehos at demonstrations, the wim in charge of the superstructure cowering in their castles and using scorn via the media to defuse the threat.
Now times are different.
And until Simona Cowell is fired from a cannonball into the Ganges (this has nothing to do with sexism per se—a personal request).
This excellent non-fiction account of the menwib movement depicts the struggle during the unliberated sixties and beyond from the POV of Petronius and his family, ignited by a fearless menwim teacher who dared to buck the school conventions.
Jag vill så himla gärna kunna ge den ett högt betyg men det enda som gjorde att jag ens läste ut den (och att den ändå fick två stjärnor) var att premissen är så intressant och rolig.
Ett matriark-samhälle där kvinnor är bröliga svin som går utan tröjor och män är väna och inställsamma med pehå, jag var verkligen säker att jag skulle älska den.Tyvärr är den nästan chockerande dåligt utförd, med tråkig, ointressant och ofärdig världsbyggnad, tråkigt, värdelöst språk, tråkiga karaktärer och en sån himla tråkig och hattig och oengagerande story.
Det läggs ner tid på onödig dialog och så mycket saker som hade potential att vara intressant blir SÅ TRÅKIGT.
Oj, vilken svår bok att recensera.Dels för att den inte är skriven som skönlitterärt verk i första hand, utan snarare ett politiskt verk.
Dessutom är boken skriven 1977, och presenterar ett samhälle som kan vara svårt att förstå om man inte levde under 70- & 80-talet.
Boken är otroligt lättläst i sig, förutom en uppsjö av nya ord som man själv behöver man-ifiera för att förstå, och berättelsen är egentligen inget speciellt, utan det är språkets och samhällets presentation som är hela bokens poäng.
Och där lyckas den!Jag kan inte hylla boken som ett litterärt mästerverk, men det är ett fantastiskt tankeexperiment som alla borde läsa, och reflektera kring.
What if there was a matriarch, men ate the Pill, wore pehos ("The boys said it was awkward and uncomfortable, cramming your penis into that stupid box. And it was so impractical when you had to pee.")and dressed in tiny clothes designed to show off your body?The book is not just an interesting - sometimes absolutely hilarious, sometimes tragic - role reversal, but is also a commentary on the supposed neutrality of language.Eg wom, wim: woman, womenmanwom, manwim: man, menmafele: malefele: femaleBrantenberg makes some interesting points, but is very dated (it was published in the mid-70´s).
I read this in Danish, which I think would be close to the Norwegian.
Unfortunately, when you stop and think about some of the issues in this book, you can see that we still have a way to go in some areas.
I think this is a well-done satire that should be read at minimum for the historical perspective - it's from 1977.
I think satire works best when it is fairly simple, so too many factors might have cluttered the message and made it harder to write the book.I found the typography to be a bit annoying, but it's a victim of its time: 1980.
Egalia's Daughters is set in a world where women hold the power.
Men have to wear a kind of penis bra that holds their genitals up to make them seem more appealing to women.
Men are expected to grow long beards and groom them fastidiously.
Beards need to be clean, shiny, and men are expected to make them prettier with flowers or clips.
As the title says, this book is a satire.
It's not meant to provide with any solutions or to argue that a world where women held the power would be inherently better.
A satire where 1950s style gender roles are inverted.
Everything is completely inverted, including every nuance of language.
Women are wom, men er menwym.
I found it a bit dated at first (it is from 1977), but it is a fascinating take on the 1960s-70s women's lib movement (her presented as the menwym masculist movement).
And considering how much of the book sounds really odd but would still read as relatively normal if you just inverted the genders back, I'd say it's not that dated after all.
Somewhat taken to the extremes, yes, but that's what satire is all about.
With an unmatched effectiveness Gerd Brantenberg points out all of the obnoxious problems that women and men face because they can't seem to see outside their provincial world of traditional sex and gender roles.
The author managed to get at all of the the sex issues that our society can't seem to cope with, let alone see.Adults often tell young people, "You know, things aren't just black and white.
(For the most accurate reading, say the last part of the statement with panic in your voice.)This book will let you see, probably for the very first time, how blind this society is in regards to sex roles.

It is extremely interesting to view men as the passive, beautiful sex, for a change.Another interesting part in the book is the importance of menstruation.
Everything in the language is transformed, which could happen if women were in power for such a long time.The author has not merely had the gender roles change places.
In the book, men need paternity protection by women, which is not true the other way around, today.
If women are the ideal sex for such a long time, men would eventually view themselves through the woman gaze, not the other way around.If it wasn't clear before, it becomes crystal clear that the world is extremely sexist.
The mood for feminist lit usually strikes me around International Women's Day, and this year this is the one I ended up picking off the shelf.As the subtitle suggests, this is a thought-provoking, satirical, and feminist take on a gender-bent "utopia": In matriarchal Egalia, the female/woman (fele/wom) is the "norm", while the male/man (mafele/manwom) is the subjugated sex.
The gender-swapped vocabulary makes for an awkward, challenging reading experience, but it's integral to the book, and the best way Brantenberg could've chosen to highlight her point: How much inherent bias is present in our culture and language; any language - remember, this was written in Norwegian.
For en hver en brennende feminist med også god selvinnsikt. Om du ikke er feminist så les den for satirens skyld.
I also realised, bye-the-bye, that to have got on that shelf, my daughter must have had it in the kitchen, which somehow makes me quite proud, because this is not obviously a book a 15 year old girl would pick up, but it is one that perhaps more should read.The plot is simple, almost non-existent, although pleasant enough.
I imagine she wrote a simple story about a young woman learning about feminism in the 70's, and then simply reversed everything, and therein lies the satire.
As an adult woman, old enough to remember the time depicted here, even for me the depth of impact gender has on language was illuminating in itself.
I read this book years ago, and it made a huge impression on me. It was funny, but thought provoking and very interesting. It's about a society where roles are reversed. Women ("wim") and the dominant forces, the workers and the leaders and the heads of the households. Men ("menwim") stay at home, care for the children, and curl their beards. I often looked for this book over the years, hoping to reread it, but I couldn't remember the title. I'm glad I found it again through a discussion on Goodreads.
Gender reversal. You don't realize how 'oppressive' women's lifestyle is until you imagine a situation in which men and women's roles are reversed. Women (wim) rule society and men (menwim) stay home to take care of the household. It's also interesting to pay attention to the language: 'wim' dominate the language more so than 'menwim' do, just as 'men' appears more frequently in language than does 'women.'
From reading the blurb, I thought I knew which situations would arise and how the text would handle each but I found I missed a lot. This book reminds you of all the things you've forgotten - the many and varied ways sex based oppression manifests and the real violence of female socialization. Worth a read even if it's a bit tedious at times.I did find that some of the lines resonated poorly given the existence of MRAs though.
I read this book in my Gender & Language class at UCLA. I remember finding it hard to get into, but then I was hooked...it's a fascinating twist on our society that makes you reevaluate some of your own preconceived notions about the sexes. It's enlightening and entertaining, if a bit sad, but well worth the effort.
I read this book in college and it blew my mind. So much of what we understand to be "male" or "female" qualities can be manipulated by society. I had empathy for the second class status of the men in this novel. Highly recommend it for readers interested in gender constructs.
I read this book in college--a truly eye-opening, feminist book that had an impact on how I viewed the world. Too bad Seal press folded in Seattle. I loved all the books they produced back in the 90s.
My favorite book thus far. Switches the power dynamics of men and women in society. Very clever.
This is a somewhat disturbing but really interesting book. A sci-fi? fantasy? in which women have the power and sexism is a way of life for men. Thought-provoking.
According to my French diary from high school, this was very amusing, yet it has completely disappeared from my memory.
Controversial, at least when it was released in Norway in the 70's. Well written, everything is carefully written and described, twisting our view of gender stereotypes.
This book is satire of Swiftian dimensions: a society where the gender roles are switched, with women being "masculine" and men "feminine." The level of detail is quite amazing, and as such constantly challenges assumptions about gender roles. Problem is, the story isn't that engaging - it's a typical coming-of-age type story, but just with gender roles reversed. Maybe I'll read it some day, but right now it's not really holding my interest, despite the intriguing premise.
Brilliant feminist fiction. Reveals the gender structures and language of society. Very imaginative. A must!
En ögonöppnare. Intressant läsning.
