https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116564.A_Wizard_Abroad
Duane does a fantastic job of weaving in Irish history/mythology and incorporating it into the world of "Young Wizards".
Duane incorporates so much of Ireland into the novel that it is practically another character.
(Just to be sure that I read everything correctly I went on Wikipedia.) This made me grow somewhat frustrated as I was very invested in the story and wanted to know what happened.Overall, I would recommend this book only to people reading the "Young Wizards" series and/or people who are into Irish history/mythology.
Didn't love this one as much, and I'm not entirely sure why. I know the ending was extraordinarily abrupt, but also: CAT BARD. Still enjoying the series as a whole, of course, and looking greatly forward to the next one. =D
Oh, and the part where the Irish guy faced the same choice that Nita did in Deep Wizardry, and she didn't give him the same speech she got (which was a very good speech and quite moving) and indeed, he almost didn't make his choice at all.
Bad wizard.This book covers Nita's trip to Ireland, where magic is so old and layered into the very fabric of the land that just staring at something can make you go sideways into another time or dimension.
A good book, but a bit dense.
But if I, as a history major, had trouble following all the Irish lore that she throws into the story, what would a 10-14 year old feel?
It's a bit like wading through Beowulf or Tolkien.
That might be what she was going for, but I found it dense and not well integrated into the story.
As a result the characterization suffered as compared to the first 2 books.Hopefully at this point in the series you are a fan, and wade through.
I liked her bringing in the Irish History similar to what she did with the whale's history in the 2nd book.
I had totally forgotten what happened in this book in the ten years since I last read it but it seemed a lot more action packed then I remembered. I guess that's probably the reason it was one of my favorites back then and still one of my favorites of the series today!
A trip into Irish mythology and faerie - all with Diane Duane's beautifully realized magic. This is an excellent series.
The barriers between Ireland and the Old World of Tir na nOg are thin, and Nita must help the Irish wizards to ward off nightmare creatures from the past.
Legends and monsters from Irish legend come into the realm of reality, and only Nita and her friends have the magical power and the connections to stop them.As always, it is utterly impossible to describe the wonder, the grandeur, the sheer enchantment of a book by Diane Duane.
I love the way that each wizard responds to and experiences the magical powers they harness, and there is a reflection of struggle and understanding inside themselves.
I don’t think I liked this one as much as the previous three novels. It was definitely still good, and we will probably move directly onto the next in the series tomorrow, but it felt slower paced and I was a little bit less certain what was happening all the time. (It was like the rules of magic got sloppier in this book, maybe?)Also, there was some (very innocent) romance in this book, and while I’m sure it’s age appropriate, it still felt out of place to me.
This was an exceptional book. It was action-packed, funny, and serious all packed into a 300 paged book. I definitely would recommend it. My favorite part was when the one of the friends of the main characters sacrificed his life for them. I attempted to read this book in 5th grade, but thought it was too hard to understand. I am now glad that I chose to read this book. Definitely would recommend it. :)
I appreciate that Duane wanted to share some Irish mythology but boooooooy does it drag.
this one had a kitten who was also a bard, so it gets an extra star. it also has a bunch of adults going "oh, you're the kids who've done some improbable tasks, go you!" and I love their casual acceptance of that and acceptance that the kids really will help with things.
As much as I've enjoyed the first three books in the Young Wizard series, there were two things I was hoping this book would do differently from the previous books: (view spoiler)[not kill off a sidekick, (hide spoiler)] and make the main conflict something other than the Lone Power.
And while I'm happy to say that (view spoiler)[no sidekicks were harmed during the making of this book - though a lot of fourth-tier, unnamed filler characters were killed off, (hide spoiler)] I'm still disappointed that we once again are dealing with the Lone Power.
Duane takes us to Ireland, land of the wee, and Nita meets a broody boy and a cat bard, goes riding with the Queen and drinks tea.
A Wizard Abroad is a unique entry to the Young Wizards series, because it overlays over its own, already complex internal mythology and narrative another challenge -- a thick layer of Irish myth.
(hide spoiler)]It's a quick read, and, for all the hard-science backing Duane gives to her wizardry, not especially complex.
(Sniff.) The implicit creed in Duane's books (in some, almost a science-fiction version of CS Lewis's fantasies) provides a depth of power and meaning to her narratives they might not otherwise have at that level of writing.
The realm of Irish fable is drifting closer to reality, sometimes overlapping with it in terryfying ways.
And a wizard is always on call...even if she's on vacation in a foreign country.Teaming up with a host of Irish wizards, including the handsome and enignmatic Ronan, as well as Kit and her sister Dairine, who can't be kept out of the action for long, Nita will face an explosive battle between fantasy and reality, as well as a search for four elemental weapons from Celtic lore.
Duane uses her own Irish knowledge to craft realistic people and events, utilizing all of Ireland's rich mythology and history.
Slightly less good than its predecessors (in my opinion), A Wizard Abroad is a great book in itself and very nice when read as part of a series.
Diane Duane creates an intrusive/portal/quest fantasy that presents both a believable world and a believable magical system (something I appreciate).
Overall, the focus of the books has skewed sideways from traditional themes, partially owing to the fact that most good source material for intrusive and magical fantasies has already been exploited by predecessors in the genre.
My only complaint would be that in the great detail in which Duane explains the world to the readers, she tends to bog down her narrative.
I agree with a friend of mine who said that this was probably the title she liked least in this wonderful series.
I still like the first one the best, although the second is close to a tie for that.
But this 4th one is rather disappointing.
I think some of it was the lack of concern when Biddy did die.
Somehow things seemed very unsettled in terms of Ronan's magic.
Not so much the attraction Nita felt for him, which is ok to leave hanging, but how his magic is going to end up affecting him.
Some things just weren't very clear in this title.
There was only one thing that bugged me about this book: Nita's parents want her to get some distance from Kit and learn how to interact with people other than him, which is really a good thing to learn!
That was disappointing, and now that the next book is how their partnership is not working as well as it once did, and Nita not knowing how to turn to someone else, well, I wish she'd had a lesson in getting to rely on more people before then.
This was another car trip re-listen to an audiobook series that I have loved since I was a kid.
The Young Wizards series is about eight books long now, some which are stronger than others.
The first four books are my favorites.
The first three are the strongest, and this one sets the stage for the more personal tone of the rest of the series.
This book takes Nita to Ireland, so it is particularly appealing for its Irish legends, creatures, and characters.
It may have been written as an excuse to write about Ireland but I don't mind at all!
Good for family listening as well.
This is a little self-indulgent really - it's more of an excuse to romp through Irish mythos than anything else.Not that she doesn't do it well; it's nice to finally have a story which is larger than our heroes can handle, even if they have to provide the critical input at the right moment.
It started off a little slower than some of the other books, but it was still rather enjoyable. Kind of interesting learning about some of the Irish mythology. I looked it up, and a lot of what was used in this book was based on the actual legends.I am finding this series quite enjoyable.
By far, this was my favorite of the series, set in Ireland it was more magical than anything and was beautiful in everyway.
Catching up on my childhood and didn't realize there were continuations beyond the first 3. Nostalgia does not for great book recommendations make.
This is my second favorite in the series. The two young wizards are sent to Ireland to help some new friends...including a cat who's a bard.
Good, but a bit boring. I mean there was action but also a lot of talking and going over wizard history. Also, I didn't like Ronan...
Y'all, that finale was intense .
A bit more..I mean it wasn't as good as High Wizardry in MY opinion, but it is still a solid instalment in the series.
However, I rarely have the experience of listing descriptions as one of the things I loved in a book.Also the cultural differences between wizards and the way in which the book is not the only way to gain wizardry opens the magic system up so much.
A tragic limit in the way the books are written, but like...we got Dairine POV last book so...I don't know.Also, I know that he's basically introducing a love triangle, just by existing.
But even authors with a potent commitment to violence have managed it a little less disgustingly than that.It's possible, of course, that Nita had already been infected by the random violence that's said to permeate Ireland: a violence so pervasive that even the most peaceful can't seem to escape any further than to try to make peace AFTER violence.
Native Polish music, however, sounds as if it IS trying to do the same things--and failing drastically.
The 'Fomori' were real people, with lives and histories--and the contests were often heroic labors ('digging rivers' is one that's mentioned in passing in this book), judged by onlookers, with 'victory' going to the most skilled and beneficial, not to the 'brute-force' violence depicted herein.
But there were moments which shone through so brightly that I would love to paint them, if I had the skill in me - the faeries' sweeping ride down the street against the Formori while the guard stands in befuddled wonder, the look of the cup shining through when it was first ensouled, Ronan slumped against the spear and the great windy shadow of the Morrigan rising behind him.
And with the bittersweet sharp hungryness in me at "We will prepare for the dawn," the small half-laughing unfinished satisfaction of "Oh, well.
Book 4 of the "Young Wizards" series.Nita Callahan, wizard, has a problem.
Her parents have decided that she is spending too much time with her best friend and wizarding partner Christopher "Kit" Rodriguez, so they are going to send her to Ireland for the rest of the summer, where she will stay with her father's sister Annie.
Worse, she has been forbidden to teleport home to visit Kit.Naturally, she quickly finds herself in a wizardly muddle.
Nita must not only hobnob with her fellow wizards, but join them in a desparate battle to save Ireland and, possibly, the world...
Ireland and WizardsI have read the first three books, and they had a fun atmosphere.
Nita is out of her depth as she visits her Aunt in Ireland, only to have to use wizardry-the very thing she was supposed to take a break from-to help stop the Lone Power.
It was a fascinating read...Ronan is a new favorite character, as was the cat and I liked all the new wizards as well.
I found that even though this was a bit more of a serious read, it still had that sense of fun and felt very realistic at times as well.Four out of five stars!
