https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7137327-enclave
Deuce manages to escape with the help of Tegan, a girl who was taken by the Wolves earlier and has spent much of her young life being raped and giving birth to stillborn children.
Again, I wanted to throw up.As for the lackluster world building: As far as I know, we aren't told how old Fade and Deuce are in the text, although the jacket description says 15.
Fade and Deuce don't have a listed ages within the text of the book because they were written as older than 13, but that does not fit with the world building.
deuce has no ties to her family - in the enclave, people rarely know who sired them, so it is an irrelevant distinction.but enough comparisons.i just got way ahead of myself.
just so you know, i hate it when books are reductive like this - that there are only x-number of categories for people to fall into and everything else just gets willfully ignored by the author.
and that can be uncomfortable for a reader, when the book kind of breezes over things like rape, which in a normal world, would maybe be treated more sensitively.
When you grow up with characters like Buffy and Princess Leia, it can set the bar pretty high to begin with and can result in a difficulty being satisfied with Bella-ish whiny girls.
The problem is that Ann Aguirre set the bar just out of reach with her first kickass chick, Sirantha Jax of Grimspace, and Duece just isn't quite tall enough to walk in her predecessor's tiny flats and still measure up.
I guess, technically "Freak" killing shoes, but they help her measure up to Jax. With them, she kicks a hella ton of ass.She sure reminds me of Katniss a lot.
3/29/12 Stop by The Nocturnal Library to read our interview with Ann Aguirre and enter for a chance to win one of 3 books: Enclave, Grimspace or Blue Diablo. I am happy. I am shocked. I still can’t believe this. Ann Aguirre just got promoted to my favorite author. Ok, maybe not favorite, but close enough. I mean, come on! She writes this fantastic SF series, starting with Grimspace, a very good (if not great) and very unusual UF series with elements of horror (the Corine Solomon series), and no
3/29/12 Stop by The Nocturnal Library to read our interview with Ann Aguirre and enter for a chance to win one of 3 books: Enclave, Grimspace or Blue Diablo.
Ann Aguirre just got promoted to my favorite author.
(hide spoiler)]We start following our heroine on the day of her naming ceremony – the day she stops being Girl15 and becomes Deuce, a Huntress trained to protect her Enclave and bring food for Breeders, Builders and Elders.
Deuce doesn’t mind risking her life every day for others – it’s a matter of pride and acceptance.
HOLY WOW. WHY HAVE I NOT READ THIS SERIES SOONER? SO MUCH FUN!!! AMAZING PROTAGONIST. AMAZING, CREEPY WORLD. LOVE, LOVE, LOVVVVVE STALKER (even though I know he won't win!). This is SO my type of book, why did I take so long to read it?
I don't know if it's because of the genre, or simply because the author isn't trying to cash-in on the current romance fad, but Deuce doesn't spend the majority of the novel fantasizing about Fade's physique and having fifteen-year-old hot flashes over his mere proximity.
(hide spoiler)] Deuce seems to have her head on her shoulders and she has a lot of strength and determination that I think a lot of authors, unfortunately, aren't adding to their heroines.The romance is still there, but it doesn't overwhelm the rest of the story - it's just enough to add a little spice that a lot of readers (including myself) are looking for.
When Deuce was underground (at the beginning of the book), the author really took her time to develop her characters.
Fade really was a great character and well constructed.The story underground.Seriously, when the author takes her time, she writes a good story.
So at this point, I think it might be good that the author just arbitrarily cut off the end of her book.
Stalker was the leader of his own gang before he joined up with Fade and Deuce.
Stalker forcefully made Tegan (another character in the book) be a breeder in his “gang” because well, of course, that is all she is good for.
Okay, I'm adding this note because I'm seeing some activity on this review as I'm updating my reading progress in the third book.
I need to reread this one at some point, because reading the sequel Outpost completely changed my perspective on certain issues.
My mini reaction to that book is here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...But for now, my initial reaction to the first book remains below.
It's fascinating to see this society that the author created.2.5 stars I really wanted to like this book, but holy moly.
While I haven’t actually finished reading The Hunger Games yet (I’ll get round to it eventually, I swear!), I began this book with the same expectations I have for every dystopian novel – strong world-building and a real threat & sense of danger.
I have seen rape mentioned in other dystopian novels and within the constraints of this world where humans die young and need to reproduce quickly, it makes sense that a patriarchy dominated society would view women in such a manner.
She gets this name in a naming ceremony where the towns people gather around, place a bunch of rando items in front of you, cut your arms a bunch of time, and then whatever you bleed on first is your new name.
Fade just is conveniently the only person the community has ever let live with them that wasn't born into their group...
Yeah I bet you can already guess where this story's going......*plays jeopardy music*Yes; What is Fade and Douche are banished is the correct answer.After being banished for the most predictable reason ever Fade and Deuce head topside.
Although Enclave had some great ideas, some very quotable passages, and some fascinating characters, I think it also fell short in a number of ways.This book tells the story of Deuce; a girl living underground in the tunnels and sewer systems of a post-apocalyptic New York City.
It isn’t until she’s forced out of the enclave does she finally realize that she knows nothing about the world she lives in.Deuce was an obvious choice for my favorite character, but only because she was the most developed.
She had me sooo happy at parts, I found myself saying, "Oh Hells yes!" during the battle scenes.One thing I really appreciated about this book was the question of, "What is strength or weakness?" In the beginning of the book Deuce measures that with how well a person can defend themselves.
Deuce later acknowledges that those emotions are not a weakness, and that causes her to reassess her own character.I really liked how this book moved fast.
There were a lot of unanswered questions about the world they live in and I expect it will be answered in the next book based on how this one ended.
TRIGGER WARNING: RAPE AND VICTIM BLAMINGI actually re-read this because the new one came out and I j
How she should have died fighting her rapists?I mean are you serious with this shit?!Victim blaming people who've been raped doesn't belong in any book EVER, but it certainly belongs even less in YA!Then the guy who was the rapists's leader becomes a love interest for the main character...I JUST CAN'T DEAL WITH THIS LEVEL OF FUCKERY!
I can say with confidence that I’ve never read anything quite like this book… It completely takes you into a new world filled with horrifying situations that would have me crying in a corner.
I appreciated her ability to adapt to each new situation and think for herself in a society that encourages the opposite.Overall, the book was fast-paced, creepy as hell, and retained everything I’ve come to love and appreciate about this author.
I’m looking forward to seeing where the story goes next!Recommended Reading: this book is perfect for fans of the post-apocalyptic genre – especially those who love zombie stories (for the record, I think I'm good for a couple years in all things zombie).
So far I’ve read three zombie books this year; a very small percentage, but I think it’s safe to say that the healing has begun.Deuce is a teenage girl who was born in the Enclave: an underground community with strict rules and traditions.
When the day finally arrives, she is partnered with Fade, an outcast of the community who was not born in the Enclave but has been allowed to stay because of his superior hunting abilities.This book is a thrilling, fast paced paranormal young adult novel.
There were different kinds of strength. I knew that now. It didn’t always come from a knife or a willingness to fight. Sometimes it came from endurance, where the well ran deep and quiet. Sometimes it came from compassion and forgiveness. I thought this was really good. It is an identity story wrapped in a devastated world survival/adventure tale, and it is surprisingly insightful. It was engrossing enough that I started the next book immediately.
Deuce and Fade are cast to the surface for a tradition that, in essence, should make sense as a way that the elders enforced obedience, but, when it actually happens, feels so contrived.And that’s the problem I continued to have throughout this book.
It was just not credible.Deuce was about the only character in this book that I felt like was even remotely well developed, and I’m beginning to suspect that that’s just a trick of the first-person narration.
There are better ways to write a dystopian than to idea-drop.And what is up with the Freaks?
Right now I am in the middle of an unquestionably clever, worthwhile book (The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms), and I eventually want to find out how it ends, but in comparison to spending time with the "Enclave" consuming it feels only marginally entertaining (to me).When I wrote my original review yesterday - right on my Kindle - I thought I had to be fair and reduce my enthusiastic rating by half a star at least because of the completely unnecessary beginning of a love-triangle subplot and certain vagueness concerning the survival of a person who got dear to the socially already very deprived heroine - and certainly to me.
The world building is terrifying; we've got society living underground, talk of barren wastelands and acid rain "Topside", beasts are roaming the tunnels which, let's face it, are zombies.
Society would separate, and there are apparently already people living in the underground NYC tunnels (as per the author's notes).
When you look at the world closer, however, mostly in regards to the underground living, I was a bit less convinced.
What I certainly could not stomach was when the arrow started pointing at an nauseating future love triangle - which I was confirmed does come about in the sequel.
I was in the middle of a book and I still hadn't gotten to Enclave (the skim-turned-reread) and I wanted to get Endurance (Enclave #1.5) read.
Here I am all done with Enclave, starting Endurance, ready and pumped for Book 2...
Whether it's the Freaks (I'd really like to know where they come from by the way) or the way a person who has never been on ground before might view specific objects or common occurrences, every moment takes you further into the intricacies of this story and personalities of the characters.The Characters -Some of my favorite characters from dystopian stories come from Enclave.
Zombies have been conveniently renamed Freaks to make them seem more original, and basically every other part of the plot here has been done many times before.
Deuce lives in an underground civilization called an Enclave that's on the same level as the subway system.
Seriously?Another minor part that bothered me is when Deuce and Fade are hiding in the completely intact subway car and the zombies manage to "smash a window".
But somehow, these zombies managed to break through a subway car window.
I know lots of researchers proved that humans can become zombies and it would have to be caused by a very rare virus or something but although they can truly happen I still dislike to watch/read (or so I thought) anything about them.
Anyway, you can guess my surprise when I discovered that Freaks are truly zombies- yes, yes, it took me a while to guess- and I'm not only I'm accepting the book, but also liking it!
Deuce was raised in an Enclave, where nobody is expected to live more than 25 years.
A bit farther, and I thought I could see the light at the end of the tunnel--the situation was getting more interesting.
By the end of the book, however, I was livid, disgusted, and annoyed.
Ignoring all the poor world-building, the horribly card-board-like characters, the handling of sex and violence--all the things that would make this just another subpar ya dystopia--let's focus on the really disgusting bits.Namely, the love triangle (and subsequent handling of rape).
The fact that Deuce views said fourth member of their party--Tegan--as a weakling who "let" herself be raped is even more disgusting.
Supposedly there had once been some serious plague outbreak in the past, leaving small groups of survivors (no one seems to be able to live to age 30 anymore, mind you) in the dark and struggling to survive.Obviously the setting is nothing original, but at least I can appreciate the main characters for being down-to-earth survivors trying to find their way out of bad situations instead of heroes who is going to save the human race.
We had Hunger Games to keep us entertained in dystopian adventures and now I think Enclave is a rightfully successor of a story. The main protagonist is a Hunter and all her life she has been breed to Hunt, hunting is all she knows. Equipped with basic tools of killing she kills Freaks amongst other things. She knows not much at all of the upside world, for she has lived underground has not tasted the Sunlight or seen, cars or guns. The Enclave are a gang who consist of Brats, Hunters, Breeders and Elders. Enjoyable action packed read.http://more2read.com/?review=enclave-...
Exile means certain death.Deuce and Fade soon figure out that the Freaks are not the mindless creatures that only exist to eat that the elders think them to be.
Fade is more than willing to break away from this near like prison community and move on, but Deuce is scared because the enclave is all she has known.
So, Stalker, who again is most likely going to be a love interest for Deuce in the next book, isn’t such a bad guy because he didn’t actually rape Tegan, but only gave her untouched to his men to share.
(I have no right to judge in this instance, however, since I haven’t seen how Aguirre deals with this issue and it CAN be dealt with very effectively, as can be seen with Melina Marchetta’s Lumatere Chronicles.) Nevertheless, with any mention of a love triangle, I am usually running in the opposite direction and that, combined with the lackluster romance already present and my lack of feeling for the characters or their world simply resulted in a novel I couldn’t bring myself to continue.
Things like watches, metal spoons, weddings, books.
Curiosity got the best of me, then overwhelming disgust.Hahaha!I liked that the book isn't based on shock value.
And to top it off, I wasn't even clear on how they got that way in the first place.
(hide spoiler)].Wait, let me get this straight – a guy rapes girls (because they don't fight he doesn't have any respect for them), let's his boys rape the girls (repeatedly), abuses them and it's ok to hang out with him?
Meanwhile, the girl that was repeatedly abused and raped by him and his boys is expected to get over it, like yesterday, because that's when it happened!
Gross, yeah?But the story focuses on those that fled this disease, the ones that live underground, and have created their own little world, below the plague-ridden surface.
Until they are forced to question the actions and motives of the elders in the Enclave.I like the story.
It’s hard not to note the similarities between dystopian/post-apocalyptic novels, but there’s something about this one.
But with this novel, I want to see the prequel…the events that led up to the separation, the ones who fled underground and those that stuck it out on the surface.
Deuce has always believed everything that the elders have told her and been happy to follow orders but with Fade's help she starts to discover that not everything within their community is quite what she thought it was and perhaps the elders don't always know the right thing to do.Ann Aguirre did a brilliant job of describing the dark, dank underground world Deuce has been raised in.
