https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2992061-born-of-night
4 StarsWhat up, what up, what up my friends.How was everyone's holiday?
I spent Christmas Eve spreading holiday cheer...AKA champagne...But what can I say.
And Christmas Eve hung the fuck over from all the champagne.Whoops.
This book.
I deliberated over my rating on this for a bit.
I was really enjoying everything and then there were a few too many "convenient" twists toward the end for my liking.
But after further deliberation, I came to the conclusion...Who the fuck cares.
And this book had that in spades.
So for that alone it deserves a good rating.
I also really liked the hero.The heroine...not as much.
But when things turn personal, Nykyrian finds that saving Kiara may mean facing the one enemy he fears most of all - love."Or: "Like Twilight, but dumber and dirtier!"Maybe I should say first that this was a new genre for me.
That is a question that Sherrilyn Kenyon spent a lot of time not asking herself while writing this book.Also, I just have to mention this because it's hilarious - at one point, our heroine is in the house of our hero-with-a-dark-secretive-past, and she's looking through his movie collection, and she finds a box labeled private (!).
Every time I turned a page Kiara was aching to kiss him again (while she hated him).
It was sad, not sexy.By the way, when Kiara's so called "turning" point came about she was watching private movies of his childhood.
Their sex life takes off from there.After that point in the book it's like we're reading about a whole new character.
Thank God that came along out of nowhere to help you have a future with Kiara.The last 200ish pages were 3 stars for me, just average.
5 stars – Paranormal/Sci-Fi RomanceI’ve had Kenyon’s Dark-Hunter series on my TBR list for quite some time now, but I’m a little bit intimated by the number of books there are to get caught up on.
Nyk’s past is so sad and brutally painful, that it actually brought tears to my eyes, and the romance between him and Kiara is intense, touching, at times heartbreaking, and very hot.Born of Night is an amazing paranormal romance, and I’m looking forward to more in this awesome series...and hopefully to finally reading the Dark-Hunter books at some point in the future, too!
The Bird books were excellent, but didn’t have the same “feel” or “flawless flow” as the Ward books do and while Born of Night is a great story, I could see a slight difference in the writing refinement.
Indeed, oft was the time that I silently urged Nykie to put her rear end on the first asteroid out of the galaxy, however, as only an author of Ms. Kenyon’s caliber can do, she took the irritating traits, flaws and weaknesses inherent in Kiara and explained them all so well that in the end, I had found it in my heart to forgive her and yes, even like her, and was very happy with the match.If you find yourself tempted, yet hesitant to read this book because it’s Sci-Fi, I’d really encourage you to take the chance.
First half was GREAT! Loved the world building and action :)Second half was horrible! The MCs acted like absolute morons and the whole second half was pretty much a pity party for the main guy to make us feel sorry for him. I felt sorry for him even in the first half, I really didn't need to have it shoved down my throat like that. You know like, too much sweets makes you sick, for me, too much forcing me to feel sorry for the dude made me irritated. Oh well.
Final rating: 5/5 stars  “If I have to die, I’d rather die knowing someone cared about me, just once. Is that really too much to ask?""For us? Yes. It is. We are the gutter and the gutter is all we’ll ever be. Don’t reach out for the stars. They’ll burn you until there’s nothing left. ""Then let me burn.”   Reread this because i needed to remind myself how much i love this series (i actually read all of the books and i am quite up to date with them, but i need to love them again). Not to mention
Not to mention how much i love all characters in it, especially Nykyrian, Syn and Darling & Maris ♥.
The story  on the other hand is about Nykyrian, a former League assassin - he left the League a long time ago, and they still haven't killed him - because he kills them first.
And then, one day, Sentella goes on a mission and Syn, one of them, finds Kiara and rescues her.
“What the hell was that action?” Syn asked him.“I think it’s something called ‘paternal concern.’ ”Syn scowled at his bland explanation.
A fugitive from the League, with contracts for his assassination from several planets goverments, Nykyrian is a man fighting a war against an organisation that has grown too corrupt to dispense the justice and protection it was founded for.
Nykyrian with the tortured eyes and the air of mystery that attract her as much as his assassin job repells her.
Sherrilyn Kenyon sure loves to torture her heroes!
I liked her backbone and her determination to not be a victim for anyone.I also loved the world SK has created.
I thought she did a very good job with the world-building, but I caught a couple of 'slips' where she would describe things that I really had trouble believing they would have in a futuristic setting on another planet.
Yes, I definitely had happy reminders of the short-lived but brilliant show Firefly with this book.
That's a good sign.And Ms. Kenyon reaffirms to me why I love her books with this novel.
I liked them, because they showed the tenderness and the connection between Nykyrian and Kiara.I'm loving Nyk's friends and sidekicks.
He's going to fight rather than be killed by his former superiors...the only outcome for an assassin who wants to, "retire".Then we jump to the point of view of a scrappy young woman who's been kidnapped.
She thinks almost hateful thoughts about him....And then the book goes completely off the rails.
From this point on neither character (victim or assassin) think of anything except their lust, love, obsession and desire for the other.
The hard, cold, viscous assassin whom no one has ever survived goes "hard" (the book's description not mine) at the very thought of the girl.
Then you get a glimpse of different races, cultures living on The League from the series title is an organization some of the protagonists left and now they always have to look over their shoulder in case someone decides to fulfil the contract on their heads.In any case, it's a first book in the series so it's quite possible that other books are better (or that they don't have a heroine this annoying).
On the other hand, there were a couple of decent twists in the story.In any case, I liked it enough to continue with the series.
*“You have to learn to smile through your pain. Sometimes it’s all we got.”*  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ She belonged to the day, to warmth and sunshine.Her world was light and wonderful, filled with love and laughter.And he was born of night. His mother was the darkness, her cold embrace was all he had a right to crave. I love that the story focuses more on the characters and not the sci-fi world!:) and its easy to read...Nykyrian as the her
I love that the story focuses more on the characters and not the sci-fi world!:) and its easy to read...Nykyrian as the hero was hard to love, his cold approach to everyone, just wants you to squirm and hide and dang it frustrates me sometimes on his actions towards Kiara:(, considering his brutal past(definitely not for the faint of heart) was too raw and painful.
And yes that's why he acted cold and unfeeling but behind those facade is a good man, who protects and saves the people he cared for:) and oh he can cook!!!:) I hate and liked Kiara, its my first time to read a heroine from this Author that her character is flawed, weak, thoughtless and okay let's put what Syn said to her, she's a SNAP:“Single.
Fans of tortured heroes who also happen to be mercenaries/assasins/outlaws should grab this one asap as Nykyrian is one of the best heroes in that area.
Happily continuing with the next in the series, Syn's story.Warning: the book is sci-fi and the hero is not human, although he is basically human in appearance.
I'm not at all a fan of sci-fi romance, but in this case, it didn't bother me in the least.
It was mostly like those PNR books set in the future where a few impressive gadgets are introduced but most things are familiar nonetheless.
Loved this tortured hero and beautiful princess love story.
Kiara, the heroine was beautiful, sassy and irritating for about a quarter of the book but redeemed herself from that point forward by giving Nykrian everything and anything to win him and their HEA.
Just a beautiful love story.Something just draws me when the hero's character is an Assassin (but a redeemable one, oxymoron here I know) and the heroine a beautiful Princess.
The character growth and depth was fantastic and well done.
Pacing was fantastic, did not drag or seem slow at anytime in the book.
Read at your own risk.Okay, well I lied about Darling's book being my last Kenyon novel and ended up doing this one on a dare.
It would be nice to see a break from this shit, or at least, make it turn out a different way and do it well so readers like me don't eye roll at every single case of abuse or wrong that was brought up to make the hero/heroine more sympathetic.
No need to even talk about the plot because it was also stupid and if you've read any other Kenyon novels, this one's ending is no different.
If you're a fan of the BDB, Zsadist in particular, then you'll probably love this as well.Basically, the story centers around Nykyrian and Kiara, who couldn't be more different.
Lots of things don't go as planned as Nykyrian and Kiara grow closer together.
Nykyrian does have a friend too, Syn, and their relationship also reminds me of the BDB.
I'm curious to read Born of Fire now since that's Syn's book.One thing that got on my nerves is how Nykyrian and Kiara would get together and then something would pull them apart.
Also, Kiara would claim to understand things and then she'd do something stupid.
If you are a fan of tortured heroes, like I am, this book is for you!
Although I hear Sherrilyn Kenyon has some great tortured heroes in her historical romances, so I will definitely be checking those out!Nykyrian is the most tortured hero I have ever met.
Kiara does most of the work in this relationship, putting up with Nykyrian's attempts to protect himself by pushing her away, trying to break through and convince him he deserves everything she wants to give him.
I cant help but want to love men like Nykyrian.
*smirk*I enjoyed the world the author has built for these characters and i like how we were given enough detail to embellish a bit.Pet peeves:While it's not the first time i wanted to slap a heroine.
What a spoiled, whiny, judgemental and bitchy heroine!Normally, it's just my taste in heroines that makes me feel this way when i start a book with such a character.
In this case though, i thoroughly blame the author because it's not until almost the end that she starts redeeming herself to me.
Personally i enjoy drama in my books, overly so though is unnecessary and just dragged the story with the drama of it all.
I love this series I so wish there was a lot more of them sherrilyn kenyon has got to be one of the best modern authors around.
The flavor may be a little different, but the woman can write one hell of a love story in the midst of fantastic world-building.Nykyrian is a half-breed...
Political enemies of her father have taken out a hit on Kiara's life.Kiara is drawn to Nykyrian's powerful presence.
(Kenyon is excellent at writing those!) He has never known kindness or love; he was horribly abused as a child; and he thinks himself unworthy of Kiara.
As with most Kenyon books, the sexual tension is great and the payoff is HOT.We also have great supporting characters in Nykyrian's band of brothers.
At the beginning of the book I wanted to b*itch slap Kiara.
Anyone who knows me knows I love books with babies in them so this was a pleasant surprise.
Any man who can endure what he endured as a child and still love someone like he loved Kiara is a hero worthy of adoration.
"Kiara is my life" was one of my favorite lines in this book.
Although, I didn't really like how she forgave her father so easily for gunning Nykyrian down right in front of her.
I unashamedly love Sherrilyn Kenyon's books.
Yes, even while I read them I am well aware that they are a bit stupid, a bit trite, but I still love them.
Born of Night is no different.
In fact, I think from memory that Born of Night was the first Sherrilyn Kenyon book I ever tried.
I pretty much read all of her (then) available books back to back to back over a series of months and had a newfound love of all things vampire, gods and monsters.
There is a great secondary cast, all of whom get their own books throughout the series.
One of those heroine you wish for someone to rape, strangle, stab, and dismember in the first few chapters for a completely different, and hero-worthy, woman to take her place.Second, I saw too many similarities with Acheron for my taste.
I know the two stories were written two decades apart, so this could be filed as a “rough draft”, but they were simply too similar for me to actually enjoy this story after reading Acheron.
So this book was really fun, about the biggest baddest space assassin falling for a princess/dancer.
He ends up having to protect Kiara, a famous dancer/daughter of royalty, from assassination attempts and they fall in love.
YES the main character girl is really annoyingly helpless sometimes, and definitely don't try to dissect the actual SCIENCE parts of the book, but the group of guys with Nik who are assassins are so fun to read about that I totally forgave the other stuff.
I guess each dude gets his own book, really looking forward to picking up the others.
What I adore the most is to read about series which are able to show me totally amazing worlds and realities that have nothing to do with the real world.
I like when heroines hurt but they are strong enough not to complain, but when they just forget they were beaten it seems unrealistic to me.
Everything about her was just wrong IMHO.But I still was able to enjoy this book big time so the rest of the things about it must have been really good.
This one is a tough book to categorize.
It's technically sci-fi romance, but the storyline revolved around a world of assassins.
She herself struggles to warm up to him because she has witnessed his murderous streak firsthand, but for some reason, she can't seem to completely push him away either.Even though the book is long (500 pages plus), it was engaging the entire time.
There was a lot of actual good plot/story in between the romance.
I was sucked into the world of the assassins and never once got bored, even with multiple extensive fight scenes.

I really like Sherrilyn Kenyon, but my only complaint is that all of her heroes are either beaten, violated, verbally castigated, or all 3, and never feel they are worth anything.
While I really enjoyed this story, much more so than I ever expected, I'm so sick of having the hero, the alpha male, feel he is worthless.
that being said, I can move on.I loved Nykyrian, I loved his honor, and sense of duty, and I loved how he was with Kiara.I really liked our heroine Kiara.
She was a different type of heroine, and I loved it.
I completely fell in love with Nykyrian, who is a great addition to the tortured-soul heroes out there.
The slow development made him much more endearing and credible as tortured souls rarely come out and bare their souls in the first 100 pages (as if they were being interviewed by Oprah).
Since this is a romance novel…the sex scenes were enough to keep things interesting, but not particularly explicit or gratuitous.
Also, though the story centers on assassins and mercenaries, there did not seem to be many action scenes and those that existed were not particularly detailed.
I wanted to like this series since the world sounded intriguing but I couldn't get past several chapters into it.
I admit that romance novels have cliche's and sometimes you just have to go with it.
Particularly may I say I'm tired of the whole 'hero complains about his insanely hard manly parts after barely meeting the heroine for 2 seconds' cliche found within here.
I applaud Ms. Kenyon for doing something different and creating a really unique universe in the romance genre.
But I'm not reading about any more manly parts here.
