https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1059787.A_Walker_in_the_City
The last section is indeed a walk, to Highland Park where he stands on the edge of the wider world, ready to leave Brownsville.This is very much a memoir of what it was like to grow up in a section of the city dominated by Jewish families and their way of life so reminiscent of Europe.
In A Walker in the City, the opening volume of an autobiographical trilogy, he revisits the beginning of that journey to record how the first boyhood steps in the synagogue, the kitchen, and the street gave direction to the man he became.
Of course I've vaguely heard of this book forever, but I had to have it literally thrust into my hands to actually start reading it. I'm only a smidge of the way through (although this book is so short, a smidge is probably 1/4), but it's staggeringly evocative, both of turn-of-the-century Brooklyn tenements and the shtetls of the "old countries" of Poland and Russia. Reading it feels like seeing my own heritage unfold and come to shimmering life between two covers, even though none of these experiences were ever mine. It's quite incredible.
I think that's really the worth of memoirs: satisfying the fan's need to know more.
At that time, I looked around for his other work, and read about A Walker in the City, and about how well-regarded it was.
Eventually its number came up: in A Walker in the City Kazin covers the neighborhood he grew up in (Brownsville), and the culture and lifestyle of the Jewish population there; his early love of books; his constant awareness growing up of feeling like an outsider; and his own longing to experience a New York even earlier than his boyhood's.
Kazin has a remarkable gift for turning a phrase. In his hands, memory is as dynamic and lively as a movie. Imagine, if you will, an American version of Walter Benjamin, a Bernard Malamud who writes nonfiction, and a Sherwood Anderson transported to an urban environment, and then combine the three. You pretty much have Alfred Kazin. Lord this was good. He can write something that's nostalgic and even sentimental, but make it moving instead of cloying, and that's a rare gift indeed.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The imagery was masterful and illuminating, making me feel as if I was there, with the author, walking the streets, remembering, contemplating and ruminating.

Kazin writes about growing up in a Jewish community in Brooklyn before the depression. As a New Yorker, and a lover of New York history, this stood out to me, but I think it really has universal appeal. Kazin is a fascinating man, and his struggles with issues like community and self-identity are easily identifiable.
I felt almost transported in time - Kazin has a way of really thoroughly describing the feel of a place, so that you're almost there with him in the summer nights, going to synagogue, walking through the Italian neighborhood, in the kitchen while women make dresses.
It's exciting to handle a book that's so old - even though the memoir is about the author's childhood a few decades and a half before the book was published, it still gave me a tactile connection to the by-gone past described by Kazin.Added to my to-read list via: https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/07...
I read this about a decade ago, and forgot all about it until today.
I stopped by one afternoon to pick up dinner, and saw the owners all dressed up-a well preserved 20 year old suit, camera, fedora, etc.
His wife was wearing a flower print dress, and had her hair all done up.
They told me it was their wedding anniversary, and that they were going over to Manhattan for the first time in 40 years!This book evokes some of those memories of when people rarely left their neighborhoods-they had everything they needed within a one or two block area.
Every New Yorker has her own map of things as they were, things as they have become.
It's common to praise memoirs for being "without nostalgia or sentimentality" - but such a thing is rarely possible.
This book is bathed in both, but to beautiful effect, giving us a window onto one of the city's many lost worlds - long gone even as Kazin is writing over 60 years ago - a welcome antidote to the latest article that talks about Brooklyn being "discovered" ten years ago or some such.
Allowed me to live another person's discovery of life and words through walking the streets of East Brooklyn and beyond. I had only vaguely heard of Alfred Kazin, and the library copy is old and damaged ... I am thankful for the serendipity that brought me to this book!
Incredibly lyrical book detailing childhood in 1920s Brooklyn. A New York must!
Kazin is a ravenous reader and a lonely young man, hungry for ideas and fantasies and art and grandeur that exists beyond the bounds of his close, poor, assured Jewish world.
He reads at every library he can get to, dives deep into American 19th century history through his books and museums and his endless walks throughout the city, in particular over and over the Brooklyn Bridge.
He is a beautiful, sensitive, enamored writer who is always one too many steps away from salvation, just on the outside of paradise, but books and history and the very architecture of the city itself offer a sort of key.
Then, my father home to the smell of paint in the hall [he was a painter], we sat down to chopped cucumbers floating in the ice-cold borscht, radishes and tomatoes and lettuce in sour cream, a mound of corn just out of the pot steaming on the table, the butter slowly melting in a cracked blue soup plate--breathing hard against the heat, we sat down together at last."The writing itself seems to be from another time, so free of cynicism and filled with pathos.
Anyone interested in the 1930s or the history of New York should read this book, but it's worth reading and re-reading for the language alone.
Otherwise, they are wonderfully observant recollections of time, place, and culture that bring to life parts of New York City from the 1920s and 30s in vivid description and colorful anecdote.
I am 30 years behind Kazin so some of what he remembers is history come to life, places long changed or even gone (Brooklyn farmland, trolleys).
Others were still part of the city of my childhood day—the street games (handball, box ball, and other variations) life before universal air-conditioning, and stoops and candy stores as cultural centers.
An amazing memoir of Kazin's passage from a young Jewish boy growing up in Brownstone, Brooklyn in the 1920s, discovering the greater world around him through books, poetry, and wandering the streets of New York.
Kazin doesn't just "tell" the story - he lives it on each page, drawing the reader into his shoes and his head as he finds his place in the world, and then as he returns to that scene some 20 years later and walks the streets and subways once more, remembering and reflecting and relearning.


"[I]t puzzled me that no one around me seemed to take God very seriously. We neither believed nor disbelieved. He was our oldest habit." (46)"Life was a battle to 'make sure'; it had no place, as we had no time, for whims." (57)"There seemed to be no middle ground between despair and the fury of our ambition." (70)"In Yiddish we broke all the windows to let a little air into the house." (119)"This [summer] light will not go out until I have lodged it in every crack and corner of me first." (165)
This book was an extraordinary read. The author reminisces over his childhood growing up in a poor Jewish community on the outskirts of New York: he then goes much deeper touching questions that we ask ourselves (or have ever asked ourselves) as teenagers/young adults grasping to understand our various identities and their place in this industrialized enigma. It is about finding your place in the world and making peace with the one that has passed. Alfred Kazin speaks to our conscience through his own.
This is a beautifully detailed description of the ambiance of walking through 1930's Brooklyn. The author returned home and describes his walks to the synagogue, his home, the shops and people of the neighborhood, and the leisure activities of the neighborhood. There isn't any character development or plot, just place and time. It is beautifully nostalgic. I recognize similarities between his 1930's Brooklyn Jewish experience to my 1960's queens Italian background including the garment district and the immigrant enclaves.
Took me back, although not as far back as the author, to the neighborhoods that I passed through on the LL train. That's right it was the LL and the last stop was Canarsie. It may be hard to understand, especially for "newbies" in Brooklyn, but Brooklyn was a city. And to this day, thre are people who have never left their neighborhoods. Kazin talks about gettting off the block and and what it was like to go to Manhattan, crossing the bridge. Great read!
Journalist/critic Alfred Kazin's sensorial re-immersion into the Brownsville (Brooklyn) of his youth, a Whitmanesque inventory of the sights, sounds and smells of the Eastern European immigrant universe of the 1920's. The prose is high-minded but the perspective is sour; Kazin escaped, through literature, not with survivor's laughter but with tears that never dried.
if you love nyc, hate nyc but cant seem to shake nyc, kazin's racing heart and vision as he walks and walks from boro to boro, brings memories, even if you've not walked the same road as he did. kazin is a must read for writers, he writes as a writer, not as someone wanting to be a writer-there's no on/off switch. you absorb life from reading his work.
Kazin has some lovely, lyrical descriptions, but his fixation on geographical place falls flat for me. It is only when he speaks of the emotions places evoke and the characters that the author has encountered that his prose starts to soar.
The author's coming of age story from Brownsville in Brooklyn to the outside world in a poetic odyssy. I could feel the summer heat on the pavements. I could smell the food cooking in his tenement apartment.
Hailed by people whose opinion I respect as one of the greatest of all memoirs; I'm not in a position to judge, since I probably haven't read as many as those who confidently make such pronouncements. But I'm glad they pointed me toward this; it is very, very good.
right there with Luis Mumford on walking the City---told here from a Jewish kid in NYC's prespective. this is one of those books like Didion's "Slouching..."---which I return to annually to remember what a good essay is---this one I dip into frequently to see how to write about cities.
I'm still reading this and loving it.A very moving depiction the life of first generation and immigrant Jews in Brooklyn in the 1920s and 30s. I can smell the pickles and herring being sold from pushcarts on Blake ave.
I loved this book, but perhaps if you had never lived here in New York it wouldn’t have quite the same effect. But no matter what, his writing is so descriptive and evocative of growing up as a first generation American, that I would recommend it to anyone.
