https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6411016-matterhorn
Colonel Mulvaney his Regimental Commander expresses his own jaded views about the war."America uses us like whores.
When it wants a good fuck it pours in the money and we give it a moment of glory.
It was hard at times for me to read about the circumstances and the unrealistic expectations we had for combat troops in Vietnam coupled with the haphazard supply lines we had in place to give them the basics of what they needed to even do their job.
I feel like I know much, much more about the Vietnam war than what I have gleaned from other novels or histories.
This book inspires strong emotion.With imagery that reminds me of the writing of Peter Matthiessen, and with brutally honest and realistically complex characterizations that would make Jonathan Franzen proud, author Karl Marlantes has crafted a fictional novel that breathes with life and that tells the good, the bad, and the ugly of a difficult time.
Rating: 5* of five, but it deserves sixNewly Tarted Up Review! I...well...honestly, I have no idea what word to use to describe how I feel about MATTERHORN by Karl Marlantes. It's a superlative book, no adjectives need apply. I gave it five stars because that's the scale...but it deserves six.Moved to my blog.
Rating: 5* of five, but it deserves sixNewly Tarted Up Review! I...well...honestly, I have no idea what word to use to describe how I feel about MATTERHORN by Karl Marlantes﻿. It's a superlative book, no adjectives need apply. I gave it five stars because that's the scale...but it deserves six.Moved to my blog.
Plus, I used to have a neighbor who was a Vietnam vet who would tell me some hair-raising stories when he got a few beers in him that had the ring of authenticity that even grittiest fictional stories can’t convey.But Matterhorn had a lot of good buzz about it so I finally picked it up.
His Mellas character is probably a bit of a Mary Sue, but considering Marlantes’s background and time spent on this novel, it didn’t bother me a bit.My only complaint is that some of the parts concerning the racial tensions do seem hokey in places.
Karl Marlantes put me there.Matterhorn is a deep and penetrating look within the Vietnam War. It's the sort of horribly realistic novel that can only be reproduced by the survivor of an atrocity.
Highly decorated Vietnam War veteran Karl Marlantes had been at work on this book since the war ended.
Mellas wants to be one of the boys.
His desires and inexperience could get him killed.
No, Marlantes does an excellent job in building the tension.
However, word on the street was persistent: this is great, don't miss this.
I'm glad I didn't give it a miss.
I think it does that – in fact I believe it does it very well indeed.Written by a decorated Marine, the book tracks Bravo Company as they are tasked to undertake a number of scouting and combat missions, all of dubious value and under extremely challenging conditions.
There is violence (obviously) and there is the expected bravery and camaraderie of war, but there are also elements I didn't expect to find in such abundance, such as evident racial tensions, decisions being driven by the selfish ambition of senior officers and the way in which missions were declared either a success of a failure based on the body count score alone.It’s a very impactful piece and several times it almost reduced me to tears.
I don't think I've ever read a book about the Vietnam War--would I understand it, I wondered, would it hold my interest?
There were too many men, too many military terms, I wasn't sure if I liked the main character Mellas, I had nothing to hold on to.
Men you HATE to see die, do die (and I don't consider that a spoiler because, hey, this is the Vietnam War, people).
We see these men (boys, really) fight against each other (the racial tensions being especially interesting).
We see these men fight with each other against their enemy.
And we see these men fight FOR each other.
I guess not.Imagine my delight when Matterhorn turned out to be much more than a “war” book.
How can anyone not love the book I couldn’t stop reading (ok, technically listening to)?
I would stand in my kitchen and wash the same dish over and over again just so I could listen to a bit more of the audiobook.Don’t tell my family but I even resorted to driving around my block just so I wouldn’t reach my driveway after work.
I was finally convinced that it was actually Bronson Pinchot narrating my audiobook after reading this article…http://blogs.publishersweekly.com/blo...Now back to the story The book has many graphic, violent scenes.Why am I telling you this?
Given all this, it's hard to understand why this basically comfortable society sent its boys off to die horribly in an inhospitable jungle on the other side of the world, for no real reason that I or most other people can see.Matterhorn conveys the senselessness and brutality of this perhaps especially senseless and brutal war.
But it's not ultimately a nihilistic book, or at least I don't think it quite is, even though it never wraps things up with false comfort or any pleasant answers.
I think ultimately Matterhorn was about retaining your humanity in a relentlessly bleak and unjust and monstrous world, or maybe it wasn't.
It took Karl Marlantes, a decorated Vietnam veteran and accomplished civilian (Lieutenant, USMC; Rhodes Scholar, Oxford) thirty years to write, rewrite and find a publisher for Matterhorn.
Twenty years later - and thirty-five years after the end of the war in Vietnam - Karl Marlantes reminds us that the stories of young soldiers in the jungles of Southeast Asia are as devastating and relevant now as they were to a generation once removed - our fathers, brothers, uncles and grandfathers - who still live with these experiences tormenting their hearts.
Ten men lived in each hootch.Nam Phong had several squadrons of aircraft and the many mechanics and technicians necessary to keep our birds flying and bomb dropping.
We were all in Japan when we got orders to disassemble our mission support maintenance facility and load it all on C141s and put it all together again to support our aircraft mission against the enemy in the Nam. We....I mean every swingin' dick in uniform labored the most of three days in 45F easy, steady rain to secure our units into the cargo holds of the C141s.
Zhou En-lai was reputed to have said: "It is too soon to tell." That's how I feel about the Vietnam War. My passion for history is, in my own estimation, above average.
The characters range up and down the chain of command: there is Colonel Mulvaney, the humanist Korean War vet; Lieutenant Colonel Simpson, the uncaring opportunist; Major Blakely, the sychophantic operations officer; Lieutenant Goodwin, the hunt-minded leader of another of Bravo's platoon; Vancouver, the point man who carries a sawed off machine gun; China, a black revolutionary; and Sergeant Cassidy, the chief racist.
Clearly it served as the ultimate catharsis for him to exorcise the horrors of the Vietnam Conflict from his mind.
Here is all the hubris of ranking officers who never visit a battlefield, but whose rise in the ranks depend upon victories in places of no military value.
Marlantes does not attempt to establish any logic to the Vietnam Conflict.
As "The Wall" serves as a constant reminder of America's sad history in Vietnam, Marlantes' remarkable novel gives flesh and blood and soul to the names of those who line that long black wall.
If you read the reviews of Matterhorn you are going to see words like moving, riveting, heartbreaking, mesmerizing, masterful, epic, authentic, funny even and always unforgettable.
All true and more.Karl Marlantes knows of what he writes from his service as a Marine in Vietnam.
Vietnam was what I call "my war" meaning it was happening just as I was graduating and getting ready to start my adult life.
We were a fortunate class in that not one of our classmates died in Vietnam.
Marlantes, who spent over thirty years writing this book (and could probably cover his house with all the rejection letters from various publishers), centers his story on Lieutenant Mellas, a new platoon commander who has to earn the respect of his men and rally them through the backbreaking work of building new bunkers for Matterhorn, their fire support base that stands just a few miles from North Vetnam.
In the climax, Mellas leads his marines through a seemingly hopeless assault to take Matterhorn back from the enemy, again on the orders of Col. Simpson.
It is definitely difficult to find the words to describe Matterhorn.
I am of the same generation as Karl Marlantes.
Without question Vietnam had a significant impact on our generation.
It was the overriding theme guiding the life decisions made by young men at that time.
Both by son and my grandsons have no idea of the impact the Vietnam war had on my life, but also on the lives of so many of my generation.
If I could give Matterhorn ten stars, I probably would.
I feel honoured to have read it and through its pages to be touched by Karl Marlantes.
The mentality of the career officers and the line grunts, those who were staff pukes and those who knew the shitty math of trading bodies for terrain yet went out and fought…at every turn you will be angry, pissed off, amazed, sad, occasionally bemused, you will run through the gamut of emotions in the course of this book.
Jackson went running forward, more to see if Fracasso was alive than for tactical reasons.
Vancouver saw Jackson heading for the lieutenant and decided that even if the platoon were in a hopeless shit sandwich he’d be goddamned if he’d let Jackson run forward alone.
The absurdity, cruelty, monotony, and yes, addiction, of war are brilliantly on display in this moving novel of the Vietnam War.
It has taken me a few weeks to leave this review because it has taken that long to find the words.Matterhorn is powerful, emotional, gripping, gut wrenching, but most of all, it is haunting.
I want to thank Karl Marlantes for the experience and the insight.
But most of all, I want to thank him for keeping this war in my mind.
This we know and yet people remember other wars and veterans with nostalgia and Vietnam with indifference.
So again, I thank Karl Marlantes for bringing me his Vietnam.
I found myself so invested in the book 100 pages in that I had to put it down several times just to calm down before I could go on reading.The book mainly follows 2d Lt. Waino Mellas, a Princeton grad who after signing up for the Marine reserves before going to college gets shipped off to Vietnam after graduation.
600 pages later, you have only been in the bush with Mellas for two months, but it feels like you've known him forever.
This is a book that is going to stay with me for a long time.
Yes, from me who reluctantly reads war novels and winces at the mention of the Vietnam War and its politicalness.Marlantes somehow pulls off placing the reader smack dab in the middle of the fighting without grossing the reader out.
I believe the book would be less realistic without it.My edition was an audiobook with an excellent narrator who found a way to make each of the many characters sound individual and pulled off the slang and accents well.I recommend this book to anyone who wants to understand what it is like to go to war or wants more information on the Vietnam War. The portrayal of how decisions were made and the greed for promotions couldn't be portrayed better.
The main focus is on a volunteer young Marine lieutenant, Mellas, as he struggles to be a good soldier, lead his men, and suffer the poor decisions of the officers tasked with an unwinnable war no longer supported widely at home.
With so many black enlisted men, racism is a major backdrop for Mellas' challenges to build cohesion in his company.
The compelling tale does not glorify war, does not satirize it, or poeticize it, or use action to entertain.
It does elucidate the hearts of those who fought this war, their fears, aspirations, and bonds, their courage and their mistakes.
My husband was the radioman in a platoon humping in the jungle of Vietnam about a year after this book was set.
Heretofore, he has not talked much about it.
The book has also opened up conversation with my husband.
There will be an event that happens to the characters in the book and I will ask my husband about it.
After confirming that the author's depiction is dead-on accurate, he will continue talking about his experiences.
Matterhorn has led to some enriching conversations with my husband.
For that, I am grateful to Karl Marlantes.This will easily become one of the top three books I read this year.
"There was no filling the holes of death.
The emptiness might be filled up by other things over the years -- new friends, children, new tasks -- but the holes would remain." There have been books I've read fast before because they were exciting.
There have been books that I've read before because they were funny.
This is a book that was sad, moving, traumatic, large and important.
This novel belongs on the shelf strategically next to: 'War and Peace', 'The Things They Carried', 'For Whom the Bell Tolls', 'Red Badge of Courage', and 'The Naked and the Dead'.
Thirty years of not giving up.By now you may know the book is called Matterhorn (El Leon/Atlantic Monthly $24.95), and, as its name implies, it is a mountain of a story.
More importantly, I felt the love that held them together, even after some of them were dead.The 65-year-old Marlantes told Kurutz had Matterhorn “been published when I first wanted it to be, it wouldn’t have been half the book it is today,” suggesting, perhaps, that it’s those three decades of perspective and perseverance that has given it some wisdom.
I just finished listening to this book and the audible version eight years after I first read it.
As in my review from eight years ago, I continue to have a hard time believing that this book could represent reality.
It covers about three months of war focusing on a couple of dozen people.I found myself unable to believe what I was reading in spite of all the assurances that this is all just like it was.
To let those of us who have never been in the Marines know that war is hell and you make a lot of friends and a lot of friends die?
"It won't hurt you. It's just to kill plants. It's called Agent Orange... and it won't bother humans." This is such a sad and wonderful story. The sadness is apparent, as no person who participated in this war would ever return whole - there would always be part of their soul left behind. But the story, as told by Karl Marlantes, was wonderful in that it highlights the best and worst in all of us. I recall hearing one of the journalists who covered this war saying that we, as a nation, often re
This is such a sad and wonderful story.
But the story, as told by Karl Marlantes, was wonderful in that it highlights the best and worst in all of us.
The story told by Matterhorn adds rich color to that statement.You must have thick skin to get through this book.
The story opens with an unfortunate soldier who has a leech crawl into a certain orifice - one that you'd probably never think of as a possibility.
If you've seen the movie Platoon, the movie could have easily been based on this book.Despite the tough material, I quite enjoyed reading Matterhorn.
This is a story of the people of that war up and down the ranks.
If you never fought in such a war (I didn't) and want to know what war is like, read this book.
If you don't understand why people protest war, read this book.
If you didn't understand why Vietnam vets threw away their medals (800 of them reportedly), or why warriors come home with post traumatic stress disorder, read this book.
If you don't care about any of this, read this book because it's an important part of American history and should remind us never to repeat this war and what happened within it and around it.
“The day was spent in weary stupefaction, hauling dead American teenagers to a stack beside the landing zone and dead Vietnamese teenagers to the garbage pit down the side of the north face.” (Matterhorn)I wasn’t in Vietnam; I’ve never spoken to anyone about Vietnam who fought in the war yet I feel in my gut that this book by Marlantes speaks to the experience of many.
He gives us a look at war.A phenomenal book.
Mellas is preoccupied with the mysteries of war and the jungle; what it means and how it feels to be a soldier in the “bush” of South Vietnam.“Rain dropped from the lip of his helmet, fell past his eyes, and spattered onto the satiny olive cloth that held the armor plating of his cumbersome new flak jacket.
Pondering his own death Mellas chews on the true nature of his predicament and the origins of responsibility for war: "Without man there would be no evil.
Mellas speaks for all of us when he seeks out the meaning of war and evil.
