https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1556349.The_Patriot
Excellent. The adventures of a young Chinese man who falls in love with a Japanese woman, after getting involved in a failed communist revolution.
SPOILER ALERTS!
I am a big Pearl S.
Buck fan, and this is my favorite book of hers to date.
It ends on a note of uncertainty and hope, with the Chinese army being nearly destroyed and the main character, a Chinese man, leaving his family safely behind in Nagasaki to continue fighting the Japanese occupying his country.
Pearl S.
Buck ends many of her books on a tragic note, and because the dark cloud of the bombing of Nagasaki hangs over the story, in a way she unwittingly does so with this one as well.
I loved itshe is a perfect writer , no wonder that she won Nopel prize
Another thought provoking novel!Pearl S. Buck is one of my favorite authors. She is a fount of knowledge about a world I will never know.
Didn't like the end, but I really liked the plot and the main character, I got to understand his actions and thoughts.

Sembra un libro un po’ datato ed ha dei toni, qua e la, decisamente paternalistici; indubbiamente la traduzione non aiuta – la mia copia e’ vecchia e la traduzione risale alla fine degli anni 40.
Ed e’ anche la storia di un amore fra due persone, che cercano di incontrarsi al di la dei pregiudizi e degli stereotipi culturali ereditati.
E',insomma, un bellissimo romanzo, con una scrittura ricca ed allo stesso tempo scorrevole.
Pearl S Buck always seems to be able to draw me into her books and keep me stuck in one from the time I open it until I flip the last page closed.
I found the book very interesting and love learning the traditions the countries used to have (and maybe still do I am not sure).
**** When I-wan was speaking to Peony close to the end of the book about if she ever had any children and she mentions that she had a girl that she gave away to Wang.
I picked this book up at the library, not knowing anything about it, but found it to be so very interesting!
I really like historical fiction, so this was great, but I really don't know much about this time and setting, so I want to learn more now!
The review inside the cover says (much better than I could have worded it), "With vivid warmth, she tells that most poignant of all love-stories-- the love between man and woman of different races separated by a sea of hatred." I feel like I learned a lot from this book.
I recently reread this book. Once again I have been moved by the conflict between one's spouse and children and one's parents and culture. I cannot determine what I would do in the Patriot's position; I am only grateful not to have to decide as yet. My native land is the United States of America, and while I believe it is the best place for me, I'm not sure if I would follow the current regime in all things. At what point does the government diverge from the nation?
I'm never disappointed in a book written by Pearl S. Buck. I'm so glad I picked it up at the used book sale! This is the story of a young Chinese man who is sent to Japan after his father learns that he is a revolutionist. He comes to love a Japanese woman, marries her and has two sons. He is conflicted but realizes he must return to China to fight against the Japanese who have invaded his country.
If you are a student of history you will find much of interest in this book. Set in China in the late 1920's, it follows the life of a young Chinese man as a student with a revolutionary bent, through his "exile" in Japan. This is set against Chaing Kai Shek's campaign and the Japanese invasion of China in the 1930's.
Probably more like a 3.7 - quite involving and politically complex. At the center is a story of love for country, family, and the problems that arise when these are in conflict. It's heavy handed and at times makes a caricature of nearly everyone.
I love Pearl Buck, so I'm sure I'll enjoy this one. Our Library has so many "oldies but goodies"!
Interesting, not the story so much as the themes... loyalty to family, loyalty to country, what drives survival, and what drives contentment. Review to follow.
wonderful history of china told by someone who loves the people of china.
Patriotism stems from compassion, not dogmatic adherence to an ideology.
