https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35068705-the-poppy-war
The Poppy War is a historical military fantasy grounded in the bloody history of China’s 20th century in which Rin—a dark-skinned war orphan from the rural south—has fixed her heart on passing the Empire-wide placement test and attending the most prestigious military academy in Nikan, as a desperate lunge at the hope of escaping the gruesome inevitability of an arranged marriage.A year at Sinegard of her rival classmates—all heirs of the Warlords and the wealthy and privileged—telling her to cease the folly of imagining herself their equal only gave Rin’s determination a more savage edge, and soon Rin learns, with the aid of her seemingly insane and much-disdained teacher, that she possesses a lethal aptitude for the nearly-mythical art of shamanism.But the chain of wonders and horrors hadn’t ended with her discovery: the Nikans had lived with the certainty that sooner or later the Federation of Mugan would come and blood would flow, and when they did, Rin finds herself assigned to a company of the Cike—oddball misfits with shamanic powers—fighting for her country’s very survival.
“But I warn you, little warrior. The price of power is pain.” Holy hell, what did I just read??➽ A fantasy military school➽ A rich world based on modern Chinese history➽ Shamans and gods➽ Detailed characterization leading to unforgettable characters➽ Adorable, opium-smoking mentorsThat's a basic list, but this book is all of that and SO MUCH MORE. I know 100% that The Poppy War will be one of my best reads of 2018.Isn't it just so great when you find one of those books that completely drags you
Holy hell, what did I just read??➽ A fantasy military school➽ A rich world based on modern Chinese history➽ Shamans and gods➽ Detailed characterization leading to unforgettable characters➽ Adorable, opium-smoking mentorsThat's a basic list, but this book is all of that and SO MUCH MORE.
It is a fantasy, but the book draws inspiration from the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Rape of Nanking.It begins with one of my favourite things: a downtrodden orphan attends a fantasy boarding school.
Hands down Best Fantasy of 2018!This was such an amazing read and cannot wait to get my hands on the rest of the trilogy. The books will be insta buys for me!War, school, magic, no freaking romance... This book kept me on my toes.I have no doubt this series will become huge and I'll make sure to rave about it until you all read it!PS. Just wanted to add that there are trigger warnings for... well everything. Self harm, drug use, rape, etc. It's a pretty dark book!
Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you a review for The Poppy War, a book that will go down as one of the best grimdark/military fantasy debuts of all time.Once in a while, there comes a book that you just know will be a fantastic book just from the premise or the cover; this was one of those books for me.
If the answer to question one is an absolute yes, I’ll ask you this: "are you ready for this book to go into your favorites of all time shelf?" because there’s an incredibly high chance that it WILL happen.The Poppy War is a debut by R.F. Kuang and it's a coming-of-age grimdark military fantasy.
Hi, there!THE POPPY WAR is my book, so I'm obviously a bit biased.
I'm going to use this space to tell you a little about THE POPPY WAR in case you're wondering whether you might enjoy reading it.
I think everyone writes, unconsciously or not, from the sources they loved, and this book ended up being my creative smorgasbord of ATLA, Ender's Game, The Grace of Kings, and Game of Thrones.
I'm not saying THE POPPY WAR will necessarily read like those books.
Thanks for stopping by, and I really hope you enjoy the book <3 <3 <3
The Nikara believed in strictly defined social roles, a rigid hierarchy that all were locked into at birth. Everything had its own place under heaven. Princelings became Warlords, cadets became soldiers, and orphan shopgirls from Tikany should be content with remaining orphan shopgirls from Tikany. Well, fuck the heavenly order of things. Epic. Spectacular. Breathtaking. This is the one of the best books I have ever read in my adult life. I literally could not put it down. I'm gushing, I know,
A downtrodden orphan doomed to a miserable life until an opportunity opened up that brings them to an school designated for the special.
The school is supposed to be based on a system of merit.
“Every year we get someone like you, some country bumpkin who thinks that just because they were good at taking some test, they deserve my time and attention.
She wasn’t going back to nothing.But if the Keju had taught her anything, it was that pain was the price of success.And she hadn’t burned herself in a long time.Success required sacrifice.
ARC provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.  “But I warn you, little warrior. The price of power is pain.”  First and foremost, please go read one of my best friends in this entire world’s review: Petrik’s review is not only amazing, he is also an ownvoices Chinese reviewer. Next, I just want to warn you guys that this is a very dark book that is heavily inspired by the Nanking Massacre. Please use caution and know that this book has major trigger and content wa
Please use caution and know that this book has major trigger and content warnings for war themes, drug use, substance addiction, self-harm, racism, misogyny, genocide, bullying, abandonment, abuse, animal death, animal cruelty, brutal torture, brutal killing, brutal rape (off screen, but still maybe the worst I’ve ever read), mutilation, very graphic depictions of how children and adults died, experimentations on people against their will.
And Rin dedicates herself to studying so that she can not only escape this marriage, but to also escape her abusive foster parents, and the entire town that has treated her awful just because she was born a war orphan.
there is more world building and the fantasy element of the story begins to make a more prevalent appearance.
so many themes were explored in this section, i dont even know where to begin.
i think if the overall story (i.e. atmosphere and pacing) had been more consistent, and even condensed, this would have easily been a 5 star read for me.as a whole, i thought this debut was a massive accomplishment and i have a really great feeling about the sequel, and this series in general.
im really looking to see how the story will further develop!↠ 4.5 stars
The Poppy War is not a book to be missed by fantasy fans and especially those who like it infused with copious amounts of blood, darkness and misery.
This isn’t some fluffy little tale about teenage romance and personal discovery (although it may seem that way in the beginning.) This is a book about reality.
This is a book about the realities of war.
It is so very unsurprising that Rin turns into a cold hearted bitch by the end.
The more fantasy I read, the more I see the same similar plot directions and romances.
The oriental take on fantasy is something that has intrigued me since I read Fonda Lee's - Jade City and similar to that tale Kuang's debut is complex, insightful, well-crafted and features certain characters who kick-ass at martial arts.
They are almost like this worlds version of the X-Men.Approximately the first half of the book is set in the school where students learn about five subjects including strategy, lore, and martial arts training.
Three years later we reach the second half of The Poppy War which features skirmishes, battles, political indecision and some of the grimmest and most shocking scenes I've come across for a long time.
Right up to about 45% in I was wondering how the hell anyone was giving this 5 stars - not only was it not grimdark, it was borderline YA, and a rather blatant rip off of The Name of the Wind, including: super clever, good at EVERYTHING main character who gets a place at top university/college and proceeds to be trained/confused/challenged by quirky professor/lore master who is the only one who believes in/can do a specific type of magic etc etc.
I'm not entirely knocking this part of the book, it was the good bit.Then you get book 2 and the violence/action levels go up a bit as the war hits and the school yard is left in the past.
The last 150 pages or so got really good (thus why I rated it 3 instead of the possible 2 I was planning on up until that point - not that it matters) and I smashed through them in one sitting; however, it still didn't save the entire book for me.
I also felt like I never truly got to know the characters.
Thus, I spent the entirety of the book not really knowing for what or whom I should (or wanted) to root.
My Video Review:https://youtu.be/6hlv4tFLNRIThis novel started out so strong for me, and I can't believe how little I was enjoying it toward the end.
In one chapter she's "given up the luxury of fear," and then in the next, "fear struck her as she looked into that eye." Rin's characterization was just too inconsistent and really threw me out of the story constantly in the second half.
At the very least, I wish she had kept her quick-tempered nature because that would have made the most sense with what happens in the second half.
I'm happy to see so many people love this book, but I was unfortunately a little disappointed.
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsI can't believe this is a debut. I can't believe the author is in her early twenties. I can't believe humanity's history with war and violence is so deeply disturbing.RTC.
I have become something wonderful, she thought. I have become something terrible. Was she now a goddess or a monster? Perhaps neither. Perhaps both. Ms Kuang sat down and penned the fantasy of the YEAR and I am out here giving her mad respect. Taking inspiration from her study of Chinese history, specifically the Opium Wars, the Sino-Japanese wars and the Rape of Nanking, Kuang presents The Poppy War, a grimdark military fantasy set in the Nikara empire, based on the Chinese empire. If you want
The world just feels so alive in your mind as you read this- unforgettable main characters, including many who are morally complex and go through tremendous character change as the book unfolds- centres people of colour, something so important since adult fantasy as a genre is infamous for being a pretty non-inclusive genre - an ending that leaves you gasping, I genuinely cannot emphasise enough how much I am DYING for the next instalment of this seriesThe Poppy War follows Rin, a dark-skinned peasant from the rural south who wants to escape her abusive, drug dealing adoptive mother and attend military school in the north.
This book was incredible and is a new favourite fantasy! *Would not recommend for young/sensitive readers - very graphicReview available on my channel - www.youtube.com/pieraforde
2.5⭐Loved it when I first read but the more time passes the more I recall many of the problems I overlooked what with all the excitement of finally reading it. First part was incredibly enjoyable. Second part is where everything went haywire. Too many inconsistencies with the mc and in the pacing. This book is NOT your run of the mill fantasy. Be mindful of trigger warnings for... well, everything.
2.5⭐️Loved it when I first read but the more time passes the more I recall many of the problems I overlooked what with all the excitement of finally reading it. First part was incredibly enjoyable. Second part is where everything went haywire. Too many inconsistencies with the mc and in the pacing. This book is NOT your run of the mill fantasy. Be mindful of trigger warnings for... well, everything.
Chaos does not discriminate.  I wish the part at the Academy had been longer but Rin's growth is tremendous. I have a thing for underdogs so it was a pleasure getting to know her and cheering for her. She has incredible resolve and strength. I can't wait to see what she does next, good or bad.
This has no romance -and that is a plus for me because it would have destroyed the whole dark war theme-.🌟 If you are looking for a light, fluffy read then this is NOT what you are looking for.🌟 Lily also pointed out that this was a trilogy -I knew that- but the more important thing is that it was written by R.F. Kuang who is Freaking 21 years old!!
➳ 3 1/2 starsThis book is not a standalone, but part of a trilogy!! (Be right back changing it to a series here, so other Goodreads users won’t be misled, like I was.)Also, I only just found out that the author of this book is twenty-one (21!!!) years old. I am shook & in complete, and utter disbelief. How??// buddy read with a Backman stanBlog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
If you read this genre more often and love stories with morally ambiguous characters and storylines spanning many years and detailing war politics and countries at war, this would be right up your alley.
But near the middle of this book, the pace really slowed and some of the details got murky.
Along with the slowness in the middle, I found several times where the author slacked at expanding on certain important details.
You can tell she clearly knows her shit about crafting a story and well-developed characters, but my reading experience was hindered by my own inexperience to the genre and personal preferences not being met.
I have very very high expectations for this.I only read fantastic reviews for this debut, and I hope it lives up to it. 💚🤞
An achievement like this automatically gets her into Sinegard, the empire’s foremost academy for military and combat training, and more importantly for Rin, it also gives her a way out of her arranged marriage and a reason to finally leave her old life behind.But as it turns out, Sinegard is no easy place for a poor southern girl, where the student body is mostly made up children of the Nikan Warlords and elites.
I need to see the good parts too - if there are none, I'm going to lose interest.The dark moments have a lot less impact without the light ones; in a way, it's a matter of stakes.It could be said this kind of portrayal of war is realistic, and it probably wouldn't be wrong, but if I wanted to read something this emotionally draining, I'd read nonfiction.Edit, because I feel like this is my problem with this portrayal of war: Sometimes I feel like people forget that the point of fiction, especially SFF, is not imitating reality, but being entertaining.
As I read through half the book, it felt like a YA fantasy with quite dark undercurrents, but then it took off as a genuine War novel that never let up on the grim.
Hell, I really enjoyed the very Chinese feel to it with all its inherent province racism, meritocracy tests, and very in-your-face reliance on Poppies to keep a population in line.
It's nearly as breathtaking as the end in The Traitor Baru Cormorant.
No spoilers, but the end is not that traditional.
:)I really enjoyed this and I will absolutely be looking forward to the next.
UM. DID I READ THE SAME BOOK AS EVERYONE ELSE??! Initially a two star but there were certain strong aspects I really liked but overall....too much hype. Again. Sigh. 2.75 Stars.Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
The plot of this one feels fast and fun, I found it to be a really enjoyable (if often gruesome) read, and I would say it's a good example of a long book that reads like a short one, and leaves you wanting more.Our main character Rin is quite a complex character and has many dilemmas throughout the book about what to do not only with her power but also with her friends and their requests.
You may not have known that "keju" is how the Chinese pronounce the examination system.- The Red Emperor could be seen as a militarized take on China's famed Yellow Emperor, the foremost Chinese deity and ancestor to all Han Chinese, but is more likely a reference to Mao Zedong, sometimes called the Red Emperor due to his Communist ideology.- The Four Gods whom Rin prays to near the beginning of the book - the White Tiger, the Black Tortoise, the Azure Dragon, and the Vermilion Bird - are the Four Benevolent Animals in Chinese mythology.
Although not listed as book 1 I hope this is a series.
What a great opening statement.
This book is a GrimDark and Historical Fiction blend that delivers on both an action and empathetic level.
If you're expect YA because the characters are young you'll be very disappointed.
This is no more YA than Broken Kingdom and Jorg or Nevernight and Mia. These characters are dark, pained and utterly compelling.
The author takes you into their pain and the atrocities of this world, our world.
$1.99 in Kindle US today 12/16/18
