https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125953.Destruction_of_Black_Civilization
This is a VERY informative book that takes you through the history of the various dynasties and transitions of power between the races. It sheds light on the luxurious lifestyle that black people/people of color and their mixed progeny enjoyed for so many years before their demise. It, also, describes how the life of the Egyptian lived many years ago and how the lightening and darkening of the races came about. It is so very interesting that anyone can and will enjoy learning from it.
This is a brilliant book. I love reading Chancellor Williams. The Destruction of Black Civilization provides the blue print and the analysis from which the African Diaspora may reach and find the strength for positive self development. The book employs the use of focussing on great civilizations as an impetus for returning to pride in the African culture. I am using this book in my Africa American History class, because African American students must realize the brilliant and intellectual structures from which their heritage eminate. I am going to say more about this wonderful book.
ALL I HAVE TO SAY IS; "WOW!NOW LETS GET TO WORK"
And considering the terrible condition of African people, some just want answers outside of facts--then this book will fill your socks.
The issue of race (us and them) is a modern problem created with the Atlantic slave trade.
Also there was no "black" civilization in antiquity, and certainly no concept of "black race" to be destroyed.
And someone else mentioned this habit of lumping people of Africa into a slave name--black.
Worse still (and related) the GREAT ISSUE OF RACE, is a modern issue, not a historical issue.
Actually it would have been the Very Ancient Egyptians who distinguished themselves against the people this book calls "black".
Book contains many historical inaccuracies and seems to be written with more emotion than factual evidence. The book has some interesting points nevertheless.
As a work of AST it lays out a very important analysis of what the author calls "African constitutional democracy" and the role adherence to, and movement away from this central politico-economic discourse has played in strengthening and weakening African civilization throughout its history.
As a work of Afrocentric thought, it poses the (socially constructed) reality of race as the central problem of black survival in the face of genocide and (neo)colonialism, both contemporaneously and historically.
The work also discuses the "unusual level of disunity" among African peoples historically, and its role in internally weakening the defense of African peoples against external colonizers.
Outdated, of course but very interesting historically, the perspective a strong voice in the (then) developing field of black studies that came out of the cultural revolution of the 60s & 70s. I'm not familiar enough with the particularities of ancient African history to have any comment on factual accuracy. Lump summing all the different African peoples under the label of black (vs. eurasian whites) was annoying. A particularly interesting point was made about the hemming in of Africans off of the coastal lands, control of access of intercontinental market exchange (sort of a la Jared Diamond, Guns, Germs, Steel).
you will learn more from reading this book than you will in your 20+ years of going to school
A history of the war against the African people. The most important book you will ever read.
World (and specifically African) historians owe a great debt to Chancellor Williams for challenging the dominate position of history and doing a lot of groundbreaking work to begin the hard process of setting some of the record straight.
Lots of good info here, but such a sweeping overview is hard to digest and keep straight.
Chancellor Williams' goes into the rushed nature of the work, so I understand the reasons behind it, but it still makes for much less than this book could have been.
I think that Chancellor Williams has a lot to say here, that also could have justified its own book.
People condemned books like this because they have something to hide, otherwise they wouldn't spend so much time trying to discredit truth.
I know that in all books there is bias but the wouldn't stop me from reading them.
To people of African decent, wake up and learn the truth.
Now before someone condemns this book, it also details the problems within African continent and why they were so easily conquered by outsiders.
This book is not historical nonsense but is FILLED WITH FACTS hidden from the people who need it most, black people around the world.
The huge span of time covered should have been a tip-off, and while I’m inclined to get on board with the idea that racial animus and notions of white superiority have fueled aggressions within/against Africa all throughout time, Williams’ approach to this isn’t rigorous enough to sustain all the claims he’s making, with most sections glossing over the complexities of intra-continental politics rather than exploring how they influenced and were influenced by such discrimination.
His generalizations, and general habit of viewing ancient societies through a modern lens (assuming a solidified black stand against Arab invaders, as if BC-era Africans were imbued with black power rhetoric) reduces the effect of his analysis, while making it harder to trust even the sections where it seems like he’s presenting a less biased summary of events.
keep an open mind and read to the end
This is a very good reference book!!! If you are studying black history this is a very good book to start off with.
This book for me marks the beginning of a journey towards self-realisation,emancipation.
It makes me angry that we just destroyed something so wonderful.
Why do we always destroy what we envy, or do not understand.
When I was a child, I used to say to my mom, "The boys at school call me a sissy and are mean to me." She always said, "Ignore them, they're jealous."I used to think, and still do to some degree, "What an idiot!
People talk a lot about tolerance these days.
It was on "TED Talks" that we ought to think on acceptance and love and not tolerance.
Lord, I hope that I can do better than that.
The strategies used to conquer parts of the African nation by the europeans and the Arab invaders were interesting and diabolical; to be able to turn a people against themselves without ever having to step on the battlefield.The book ends with a plan that includes economic and social remedies which I believe is a start.
A few other points for stronger unity would be to promote stronger marriages, early chilhood development and maybe better community centers that work with the school system and parents.At any rate this book is a must read if one is interested in the history and improvement of the black/african american culture.
A very good read. If you're interested in life before the enslavement of Africans, this is for you..you'll have to get past the author's angry voice though. There is presence of bias, however it's very informative.
Another treasure trove of information about the history of West Africa this time. Informative, enlightening mind-blowing even if this info is new to you and even if it's not. Might want to read it over and over so that you can keep the information in your head.
this book is a powerful over view of what has happened. some parts are simplistic but the general idea is stunning. the blueprint at the end gives you resolve and really lets you see the political nature of everything.
Must read!
This is an important book. Not an easy read at all but answers the question as to why those that are of African descent are such in a fragmented state.
A very good place to begin ones study of Black History.
As Williams makes his way through time to more current history, we reach what we know as modern-day slavery and the slave trade.
It is almost overwhelming the amount of information provided in this book especially since I don’t believe I have ever seen a comprehensive look at African history.
Williams openly admits and discusses throughout that he believes that most of the scholars that presented information about Africa did so in such a way to promote the idea that Blacks are inferior.
He believes that revealing the truth about African history would dispel any notion that Black people are lesser than, which was in many ways the basis of slavery.
Excellent
The Holte award for a book on Africa, begun in 1979, is given every two years ''for a work of excellence in literature and the humanities relating to the cultural heritage of Africa and the African diaspora.'' Chancellor Williams, the historian, received the first prize for his analysis of Africa, ''The Destruction of Black Civilization: Great Issues of a Race From 4500 B.C. to A.D. 2000 [New York Times, Books, March 8, 1981].''“For generations, Memphis was almost entirely an all-African city, with white Asian villains slowly growing up around the outskirts [67].” The first four dynasties were African [67].
Long hard read. Slow but had some interesting notions
great for our youth
One of those great books of the African-American tradition that is little know within and without the African-American tradition. A must read for may serious student of West African History.
Great book to Read....
