https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/792823.Miracle_Mongers_and_Their_Methods
AMAZING DEMONSTRATIONS was a genre of live performance within which operated acts so wildly divergent as scientists like Edison and Tesla, magicians and escape artists like Houdini, and charlatans like The Davenport Brothers who took advantage of the current spiritualism craze and faked up ghostly manifestations and supernatural clap-trap, taking table-turning and spirit rapping from the parlor to the stage.
It reveals the mechanics behind a few dozen supposedly miraculous demonstrations being perpetrated on the public.In the section on fire manipulators (fire-eaters, heat resisters, flame producers) the curiously literary facet of Houdini's interest begins with a brief cultural history of fire itself, its use in religious rites and domestic life, and identifies ancient precursors to his time's "miracles."Then he starts pulling back the lush oxblood curtains in the theater of deception, exposing their secrets:
Freely available as a public domain book at the Internet Archive, on Project Gutenberg and as an audiobook on Librivox, it potentially has a huge audience, which it (mostly) deserves.Opening with a discussion of the role fire has played in human history and pre-history, Houdini playfully points out, after describing the usage of fire in some Christian religious ceremonies that “I might call attention to the fact that the Devil is supposed to dwell in the same element.” It’s not the last time he’s slyly amusing in this conversational, occasionally rambling overview of his years of research and personal experience.Spending the first few chapters on the long history of the art of fire-eating, and of fire-resistant acts, it takes Houdini a while to get around to exposing just how some of these seemingly impressive and, to their audiences, impossible feats were achieved.
He was famous for de-bunking seances and mediums who could conjure ectoplasm -- not because he wanted to expose the trick (he respected how they did it) but because these people were taking advantage of grieving spouses and children and charging top dollar to contact their dead loved ones.This book focuses a great deal on fire tricks (fire eating, heat resistance, etc.) which date back to pre-historic times and were used as proof that someone was superhuman or godlike because mortal are not immune to fire.
Houdini's crusade against the deception practiced by these people upon vulnerable, frequently grief- or guilt-stricken people, is well documented.
The master of stage illusion 'tells all,' based not only on his decades on stage mystifying audiences, but also gleaned from his own and his undercover operatives' attending the seances and readings of scores of mediums.
What is decidedly current is the deception that is still practiced today.
Houdini recounts not only how an illusion or trick is presented, but the mechanics of how it is performed, including 'mind reading,' 'spirit writing,' 'spirit manipulation' of objects, et cetera.
It seems 19th century society loved a good freak show.
To me it appears the entertainment value of REAL feats like eating red hot embers, swallowing swords, chewing glass, drinking poison, being roasted alive (and other things of the sort) were held in a higher esteem than the regular illusions we are now taught to expect from our XX and XXI century magicians.
Other than mere illusions,those really demanded physical prowess and scientific knowledge about materials, chemistry, physics and pharmacology - This book is about the methods used for achieving those types of effects.
Was a good reading experience but not about debunking charlatans as I was expecting at first.
I found a 1920 edition at the SAU library and enjoyed it quite a bit. Would've liked a bit more on how the tricks were done, but the history of fire-eaters, strongmen, and so on is quite interesting (especially when Houdini gets all snarky about bad showmanship). I do wonder how many of these methods are still used today, since a lot of them seem to involve eating or drinking chemicals that probably aren't healthy....Would like to check out Houdini's other book as well.
Very interesting, Harry Houdini, world renowned escape artist from the late 1800s, tells secrets of some of the most popular acts of all time. Fire-eating, sword swallowing, and strongman acts are all included. While more then half the book is the history of these feats, the other half reveals the secret behind them.
This was quite an interesting book, discussing fire eaters, strongmen, and sword swallowers, and how they do their tricks. I had never heard of fire-eaters before, but now I know everything about them. It was interesting to read a book written by Houdini.
I expected the book to be about the trick show, but so far it is about history of magic and rituals. Houdini seems a bit dissappointed in the lack of development in the magic trick of fire walking and fire eating.
Houdini describing how magicians, fire walkers, sword swallowers, strong men, etc, do their tricks. Interesting, but not great.
This was fantastic. It has a number of types of acts and how they were done. The English was a bit dated but it did have a great impact.
Excellent!
2 1/2 stars. Houdini sheds light on several tricks from the past. the book was interesting, easy to read. recommended for Penn and teller fans.
whaaaat?
Treak of magicians revealed! Nice book
