https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39078166-dragon-s-teeth
Upton Sinclair wrote 11 Lanny Budd novels during the 40s and early 50s, and they were all huge sellers at the time.
Lanny is married to Irma Barnes, a wealthy heiress, and together they gallivant around Europe visiting with friends and family from the earlier novels.
Instead, the novel centers on Lanny’s daring efforts to get a Jewish friend out Germany.
I’ve read a lot of positive reviews of Dragon’s Teeth, saying that Sinclair is a “master of plot, character development and suspense.” I didn't see it and found the book to be a shallow, and badly written, polemic.
Set in the time of the rise of National Socialism in Germany [read "Hitler'], we watch as Irma Budd, a devout capitalist, tries to support her husband's efforts to strengthen Socialism, but not go so far as Communism.
But they rely on their friends in the government, unaware of the trap set and ready to spring on them.But what struck me most, as I read this book, was the uncomfortable comparisons of the path "Hitlerites" took as they gained more and more power and the path the Tea Party in this country is taking.
There are several reasons why I read this book: (1) it won a Pulitzer Prize; (2) it is set in a very dramatic time in world history; (3) it was written contemporaneously; (4) it was OUT OF PRINT (!!!) for YEARS; (5) I simply did not believe the negative reviews I saw on Goodreads and wanted to judge for myself.
Well, I’m here to tell you that this is probably the best Nazi-era book that I have ever read.
I would not have missed this for the world.
In fact, I’ll probably read another Lanny Budd book soon.
While reading it I tried to keep in mind that society was different, not correct, but different at the time.
Mostly set in Germany during the rise of the Nazi party, it follows the hero's attempts to affect society and then help some Jews escape the start of the Nazi atrocities.Well written but in an older style and certainly from a socialist bent (a sin in much of modern America) this is a good novel worth reading as those who do not learn from history is bound to repeat it.....Also, there certainly are some parallels between Hitler and Donald Trump.
The 11 books in the Lanny Budd series are perhaps the best, and easiest, study of world history (especially European)from WWI to the beginnings of the Cold War told in an engaging way with a charming protagonist. I am reading them again for the 4th or 5th time. Hard to find (it took me years to acquire all of them regardless of condition) but so worth it. Try your library or used books sites.
Un libro tan sublime, con tantos temas, personajes potentes y situaciones históricas novelizadas... simplemente hay que leerlo, porque cualquier palabra que diga no le hará justicia.Para mí, descubrir a Upton Sinclair ha sido toda una sorpresa. Me alegro haber llegado a leerle, porque de verdad que sé, con seguridad, que sus libros van a ser de los que más me gusten en el año que los empiece. Apabullantes las últimas 80 páginas. Y queda mucho por leer.Hacedme caso y leedle, acercaos a su saga de Lanny Budd.https://lahierbaroja.wordpress.com/20...
Right across Europe the propaganda machines denounce communism as anti religious and violent.
His success leads Hitler to attempt a coup (beer hall putsch), his eventual imprisonment and Mein Kampf.
His anti-semitism and Germanism eventually saw him elected.
His complete power came with the enabling act, he then instituted anti jewish laws.
What was unknown to me was that he was supported by the European powers, he promised peace, employment and industry.
Bolshevism was being touted as Jewish, some literature suggested 75% of Communists were Jews.
In the mid 1930's the jewish pogroms in Germany were largely misunderstood an in some cases accepted by conservative European and Americans.
I'm nearing the end of this Pulitzer challenge, and this book (along with the not-at-all famous The Reivers) makes me think there's a category I'm missing in my spreadsheet. I'll call it "Oops! We didn't give this author a Pulitzer when he/she wrote something that turned out to be canon?!?! Let's just give them one for whatever they write next."So yeah. Maybe The Jungle should have won?But it didn't. So then it became 1943, and they were scrambling. "Did Upton Sinclair publish anything this year?""Well, yes, but...""HE WINS!"That has to be how this one won.
Set in 1942—the present, at the time it was written—it provides the reader with a fascinating, well-informed, hyper-literate view of Europe during the years before and during Hitler’s ascent to power.
As long as the seas are safe, the family considers simply waiting out all the unpleasantness on the family yacht, hoping that things will be settled down by the time they want to dock somewhere.Hitler is out and agitating, but no one really thinks he will take over the world; if he were going to do that, he surely wouldn’t stand in the streets and scream about it, now would he?
This the third of Upton Sinclair's Lanny Budd novels picks up Lanny's tale shortly after the events of Between Two Worlds.
The book starts slowly, following the events of Lanny and his family as they cope with the changing times.
In doing so he strains some relationships within his family and also places himself in extreme danger.While reading Dragon's Teeth I found it useful to keep in mind that it is a book of its time.
The events it depicts were still fresh in the memories of the readership of the time.
It’s a wide-ranging and comprehensive depiction of a time and place, and very good at simplifying political and social complexities.
With its mix of fact and fiction (but with the fictional elements always firmly rooted in reality) and its combination of real-life and invented characters, it’s a wonderful way to absorb a history lesson whilst being entertained.
Not great literature perhaps and sometimes a little long-winded admittedly, I’m nevertheless now firmly hooked on this series and hope to work my way through all 11 books.
Dragon's Teeth was the 1942 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for the Novel.
We get a glimpse of Nazi Germany as viewed by Lanny Bud who is a socialist and has a family member who married into a Jewish family.
Lanny uses his influence to help free members of his half-sister's family from Germany and gets caught up in the power struggle within the Nazi party in the progress.
A great look at the Nazi rise to power and how it affected the world.I read this book as part of a quest to read all of the Pulitzer Prize winners.
The next of the Pulitzer winners that Steve and I are reading. This is apparently the 3rd of 11 novels about the main character, Lanny Budd. This period deals with the emergence of Hitler on the German scene and the escalation of his power mania (as it were). I found that my enjoyment of this work was hampered by my abysmal knowledge of German history - a situation i will have to rectify to fully understand this novel.
Haunting to read this book in 2018, as it mirrors some of today’s chaos in the world and in our political system. Interesting to read the many points of view of a troubled world, post WW I. Characters interesting and at times maddening. Example Lanny’s wife who is so ultra privileged and prejudiced that it hurts. Read this if you are historically interested but it’s also a cautionary tale.
I only gave it 3 stars instead of 4 because it was so slow to start. The beginning is very tedious no it takes forever to get going. However the last half of the book is compelling and you can't put it down. The writing is excellent and I learned a lot about the rise of the Third Reich.
"Let's Make Deutschland Great Again!"The rise of Hitler and the Third Reich, told in novel form. So many frightening parallels with what's going on in our own country today.
These high rollers, used to having money and privilege, looked upon Hitler's National Socialism as a way to respond to the restless labor movement that was threatening their wealth and control of industry.
They thought that Germany's wealth industrial lords would temper and ultimately control Hitler and his movement and in doing so would make Germany a counterbalance to the influence of communism in general and the Soviet Union specifically.Lanny Budd, who is blessed with pretty much everything a man could reasonably expect in life, is one of the few who cares to seek the truth instead of sitting back and grossly underestimating Hitler, as most Westerners do.
I have only read "The Jungle" from Upton Sinclair and felt he marred it by injecting a non-sequitur plea for socialism at the end of an otherwise compelling story.
While this novel is historic fiction, Upton Sinclair purposely misstated one point of history and omit another in order to show socialist of his time in a better light.
The omitted point was that the Social Democrats in Germany after WW I were riddled with financial scandals which helped lead to the erosion of their appeal in Germany and the rise of the appeal of the Nazis.
I felt compelled to add these points of history.
I know the general atrocities that occurred during in Germany and Europe during the war, but this book brings home the specifics.
It also highlights the progression of events that brought the Nazis into power in Germany.
What has been so interesting, and scary, is the parallels with what is occurring in the US currently.
When could Germany have stopped the Nazis?
So scary and so possible.
It is a very long book and very graphic, as to the atrocities.
So did the citizens in Germany in the 1930s.
Upton Sinclair's 1943 Pulitzer Prize winner for fiction, and #3 in his Lanny Budd series, I found it a tough read.
It covers the life and dealings of Lanny Budd, a wealthy Jewish Socialist during the rise of Hitler, Naziism and World War II.
It is a slow starter with the second half much more engaging than the first half.
My problem was that it is filled with such detail and historical references of the time period that I got lost in all of the characters -- real and invented -- and developments.
I can imagine that the book was a revelation and exciting read when it was new and deserving of the Pulitzer.
Well worth looking beyond some of the flat characters—and it takes some effort to do this esp with the female ones. Great historical detail, superb pacing, and lucid descriptions, bring this period and key historical players to life and provide a social and political context that is too often overlooked. Sinclair has a superior gift in his use of facts and political and social detail and consequences to capture and sustain interest. It’s a long read but very worthwhile if you’re a 20th century history buff.
It took a while to know what this book was about but once I realised it was set in the period between the world wars it had my interest. It does have some real gems like this description of a violinist’s devotion:“he had made himself a slave to some pieces of wood, strips of pig’s intestine, and hairs from a horse’s tail”Would have given it 4 stars but the shallowness of the female characters (never the male) irked me too much.
This old Pulitzer has aged better than most, with some universal themes, woven into a history lesson. The political beliefs on display also aged well, I’m not comparing today’s nationalist with these sickos but I do think the book illustrates extremes of a whole slew of political beliefs. Long, but well written, I found it an enlightening history with enough universality too maintain relevance today.
No fantasy dragons hereUpton Sinclair's meisterstück, pure and simple. Here is the engaging history of mankind's worst period told in a way that matches the epic proportions of the Alpine surroundings and the abyss of the Nazi horrors. Both thrilling and disturbing, and utterly anwendbar to our time.
An unbelievable history lesson in fiction formAs you continue to read through the Lanny Budd novels, you get to live in a very dark period of mankind surrounded by both fictional and real characters. It is truly an unbelievable experience. I am hooked and so will take on the challenge of reading the entire series.
Pink Playboy Secret AgentAtmospheric tale of the world between the wars, the capitalists, socialists, and communists, the plight of the poor, and the rich. I particularly liked how the hero attempted to use the fractured politics of the various Nazi factions to advance his purpose.
This volume from the Lanny Budd series of novels covers the rise of the Nazis in ‘30s Germany. I found the similarities to what’s happening in the USA today to be utterly bone chilling. This 75-yr-old book is shockingly fresh in the lessons Upton Sinclair teaches us.
I read 12% of this on Kindle, and I found that I couldn't really care about the financial worries of a group of people spending the summer on their yacht in the Mediterranean.
A gripping account of one wealthy socialite man’s quest to free a relative and a friend from Dachau. An inordinate portion of the book focused on the frivolity of the upper class lifestyle.
Fiction
