https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647586.Killer_s_Payoff
When a blackmailer is shot dead on the street, there are suspects aplenty.
Turns out, the recently departed swindler was bilking quite a few people with threats to expose their deep dark secrets and shameful photographs.The detectives of the 87th once again rely on good-old-fashioned police work to solve this crime.
From unproductive phone calls to face-to-face interviews with suspects and witnesses, it's time consuming, tedious work...except when several of the interviewees turn out to be female and astonishingly attractive.
Precinct stud, Cotton Hawes, scores so many times I lost count.
This is another solid entry in the series.My favorite part?
In particular, McBain was under instruction to make Hawes especially attractive to females, and so Hawes has several opportunities to display his talents in this regard.A blackmailer named Sy Kramer is gunned down in the street, apparently by an expert marksman.
The detectives examine Kramer's bank statements and then try to trace the source of his income back to his victims.
If they can identify the blackmailer's victims, they will have a list of people with a great motive to silence Kramer.The investigation also reveals that Kramer recently took a hunting trip to an exclusive lodge and got into an argument with another of the guests who has mysteriously disappeared.
Τελευταία φορά που διάβασα βιβλίο της σειράς αυτής ήταν τον Ιανουάριο του 2015 και η αλήθεια είναι ότι μου έλειψαν οι χαρακτήρες και ο κόσμος τους, καθώς φυσικά και η γραφή του Μακμπέιν.
Λένε ότι ομάδα που κερδίζει δεν αλλάζει, κάτι που γενικά ισχύει, έτσι και εδώ το ύφος της ιστορίας, η γραφή, η ρεαλιστικότητα, το χιούμορ, όλα αυτά τα καλούδια τέλος πάντων, παραμένουν στο ίδιο καλό επίπεδο ποιότητας.
Είπαμε, ο Μακμπέιν είναι άρχοντας στο είδος που γράφει, ξέρει πως να πει μια ωραία και ξεκούραστη ιστορία που να προσφέρει ψυχαγωγία.
Cotton Hawes, introduced in the previous book, was forced upon him because the powers that be decided Steve Carella couldn't be a proper hero because he was married.
No single guy should be the hero.
McBain was making very little for the paperbacks at the time compared to some of his big successes like Blackboard Jungle but he was enjoying the ride anyway and determined to keep his publishers on board with Cotton but to somehow bring him more in line with the original 87th Precinct ethos.
He ends his intro, as so many Cotton Hawes chapters do, with the line....
Awhile ago my friend asked me to recommend some good mystery series that take place in New York.
While the series takes place in a fictional city called "Isola," it's New York City through and through.
If you're familiar with New York, you'll immediately be able to identify each place he's writing about.
You'll still enjoy this series if you like mysteries and police procedurals.This is the second book in the series to feature detective Cotton Hawes, and like the last one, there are too many scenes in which he operates on his own, beds many lovely ladies, and gets out of a jam on his own.
Killer’s Payoff, the 6th entry in Ed McBain’s wonderful 87th Precinct series, is a quick and entertaining read.
Thankfully, McBain ignored the executive’s first wish, and still managed to assuage him with a character called Cotton Hawes, who figures prominently in this book.
Much of the book is devoted to chasing down possible victims of the deceased blackmailer to see if any of them might have decided to end the payoffs with a bullet.
Along the way, Cotton wields his charms on more than one female, apparently fulfilling the publisher’s wishes in this regard.
Number 6 in the series. Another good read.
Enjoyable read about an extortionist. I was partially able to figure out the whodunit, but was still surprised at the end.
I've given it a couple of tries and 87th Precinct is not my cup of coffee. The story is fine, and it is actually nice to read about ordinary detectives, but the guy who jumps into bed with any random woman he happens to like a little bit -- and they actually encourage him -- is, well, dated sensibility at best.
7/10
Pretty goodOld school story set in an old school precinct, has a lot of character and great for anyone looking for a bones deep crime novel.
I adore McBain's work. The novels are quick reads, always with something that makes them worthwhile. This is another solid entry in the series.
Car pulls up and shoots Kamer a blackmailer.
From friend of Kamer ex blackmailer who says not a gangster murder and who then tries to pick up the victims "marks" of Kamer.
Follow leads to a week of five guys hunting, One guy Kettering gets into anargument with Kamar.
Kamer sees and blackmails the three guys for endless large sums and thus gets himself killed by them.Cottin Hawes does most of the leg work on this one.
He goes 2X to the hunting lodge and discovers 2nd time the buries car.
Almost gets himself killed.But gets all three arrested.
I am well into this series now. A blackmailer, Sy Kramer is shot dead with a hunting rifle as he walks along the street. The killing leads Steve Carella and Cotton Hawes to the discovery of a hunting trip gone wrong and a trail of Kramer's victims. Hawes leads the way but finds himself in danger at the end as he closes in on the perpetrators.The novel is slick and without any frills. The detectives of the 87th race through the clues. Plenty of action in this one. Good straightforward escapism!
Solid story but a little bit disappointing to me. This is the first book I have read in the series which features Cotton Hawes as the main protagonist and I find his characterization a bit bland. The story also spent a good deal of time outside of the rough urban atmosphere of Isola which to me is one of the best characters if not the best character in this series. Good but I think a bit on the weak side for this series.
PROTAGONIST: 87th PrecinctSETTING: New YorkSERIES: #6 of 57RATING: 4.0WHY: Sy Kramer was a blackmailer who was found with a bullet in his head. He had 4 marks; it is assumed that one of them is the villain. The 87th Precinct cops work to find out who was targeted by Kramer. The truth comes as a surprise. Cotton Hawes is featured in this one. The usual skillful plotting and characterization by McBain.
A 1950's drive-by with a high-powered rifle shot to the face is assigned to Steve Carella and partner Cotton Hawes. They quickly discover the victim is a blackmailer, and start investigating his monthly marks, which devolve into deadends; however, Cotton's dogged determination eventually unveils a thread, which almost get him killed but solve the crime.
Stumped meI'm making my way through this series in order. This is the first book that I didn't figure out !!!
Good pulp fiction type of novel. Liked the rough and realistic dialouge and it kept my interest
Exploring the characters of the cops, the people they meet in the investigations and the banality of crime.The book is nothing world shaking but as an average instalment in the series it's a fine example of why I'd rate McBain as the first amongst crime writers of his generation, maybe of all time.
The author's introduction is great too, giving insight into the pressure from his publisher that led to certain, um, character choices around this time in the series.
Right, time for the next one!
(They're very more-ish books).
Good early 87th precinct story. Cotton Hawes is a relatively new character and s involved in the investigation of the murder of a blackmailer. A twist at the end almost sees Hawes killed, but not quite!
ContinuationInteresting to see how McBain/Hunter dealt with his publisher's feedback. Guess the publisher got what he asked for, even if it wasn't quite what he wanted. Good showing here as well.
Amusing dialogue, but watered-down Hammett.
These books are like bacon for the brain.
Getting better at the form. Plot is a bit crisper and the characters are now pretty well defined
So many characters. I think I got lost in them at one point. Still, another excellent Ed McBain novel.
3.75
Quick and dirty!
I'm kind of confused as to McBain's portrayal of the new guy in the squad, Cotton Hawes.
Yes, in the end he keeps getting the killer, but especially in this one it's a close thing that really depends more on dumb luck than a strong application of brains.I suppose my main frustration with this book is that the "twist" at the end seemed not only obvious but NECESSARY structurally, and I very rarely figure out twists, so it always seems a bit annoying when I can figure one out but our intrepid heroes can't.
It felt to me like McBain relied too heavily on the 'this character loves repeating a certain line, no matter what' trope.
As straightforward crime novel's go this, with its no-frills, succinct style of writing, was pretty damn good.
