https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7756378-jane-austen
Formatted very nicely. The electronic version controls work very well. Have found no glitches. Which are very nice. It also is a complete collection of Austen's works. All for very cheap! Really very happy with this purchase. Worth every penny and more. I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Works...
I have ready every Jane Austen book at least ten times. I never get tired of them.
I have finished the major books, and am now working my way through the smaller ones.As for my opinion on Austen:As I work my way through the works of Jane Austen I find myself with manner of speech slightly affected and by no means convinced that Miss Jane Austen could be anything other than a classicist of the highest order.
9. Austen also had substantial influence with social and political issues as a direct result of her writing.
You will find more on this opinion here:My thoughts on Austen's writings and the movies made relating to her worksThe following are my reviews on each of the books listed in this novel:Mansfield ParkNorthanger AbbeyEmmaPersuasionPride & PrejudiceSense & Sensibility
After checking out the other Kindle book collections that feature the writings of Jane Austen, I decided on this one because of three important things: 1.
the layout was GREAT compared to the other Kindle versions I saw, where paragraphs were spaced weird and jagged on the right edge in some cases (or available illustrations were too small to even consider).
In short, while there are cheaper Kindle books of Jane Austen's works, this is a great Kindle book for the price, and the elegant layout really does make a difference.
These letters are okay, but even "just okay" for Jane Austen means "wonderful" for the rest of us.
This may not be a "mans" book, but it is a good read. There was a little too much chattiness for my liking at times, but the story resonates with me as it resembles (fondly) my courtship with my wife. I see myself in Mr. Darcy (prideful and not outgoing), and something of my wife in Lizzy (opinionated and strong (and strong headed).
Otro regalo. Otro que va a llevar tiempito... XD
Finished Northanger Abbey in this collection. First Jane Austen book that I have read. Now want to read more by her.
It is about a young lady Catherine Morland who takes leave of her parents and siblings to vacation with a neighboring couple, the Allens, in Bath an area recommended for Mr. Allen's health.
She also had a passion for wanting to explore large edifices, such as castles and abbeys and learn of the mysteries found within their history.
The story deals with her relationship with several people she meets in Bath; a young lady, Eleanor and her brother Henry; Ezabella and her brother John, and several other people who add spirit and interest to this story.It deals with friendship, courtships, misunderstandings, love, and pride and prejudice.
All of her works are worth the read, thorough study, and so rich in wonderful characters, history, and self-discovery. Her protagonists have been some of the most interesting, clever, and beloved characters. Favorites in order:1. By far - PERSUASION. Anne Elliot is almost too good a character. First and last daughter of our's named mostly for her.2. Pride and Prejudice3. Emma4. Sense and Sensibility5. Northanger Abbey6. Mansfield Park
Ughh.. so many words to say so little. I just can not appreciate Jane Austin stories. I have tried several times and could not get through even one. I gave up. I hardly ever give up. That is how much i cannot appreciate Jane Austin.
love this book!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! awwwwwwsome!! jane austin is the best author in the world!!!!!
I have read all her books just wanted to get a digital copy to carry around with me in case of emergency!
I love her many written arts. I love her stories and the strong women, for those days, she portrays in her work.
One of my favorite writers. Pride and Prejudice the very first book in English I read in my life.
I loved readingher books!
How love itself must give way to rectitude and character is the chief theme, with the obvious lesson that giving way to temptation for now might close the door to happiness, love and future in fact.............................................Pride and Prejudice"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife." So the writer states right in the beginning.
Emma:- Perhaps arguably the second most popular of the writer's works vying with Mansfield Park for the title, this one again explores values and conflicts from another angle, with growth of character and perception, and temptation to meddle in social affairs, as the chief theme.It is more serious than it looks, as is usual with a good deal of her work, where the seemingly most superficial and romantic turns out to be most serious and worthy of note.More people than would care to acknowledge or admit even to themselves do meddle in affairs of others, especially those of heart, with a fond illusion that they can do good to others and provide their happiness for them.
I am at a lose of words. Who doesn't love Jane Austen?
When I was working on Book I of my FAERIE LEGACY series, I took to reading and rereading Pride & Prejudice and Sense & Sensibility.I did this because Faery Sight is set in the 1800’s, and I couldn’t think of a better way to get familiar with the prose and flowing narrative of that period.
I simply love both books and they’re by far my favorite by Jane Austen.As for movie/TV adaptations of these two classics?
I haven’t seen any better than:BBC/A&E’s co-production of Pride & Prejudice, starring ColinFirth and Jennifer Ehle.Ang Lee’s Sense and Sensibility, starring Hugh Grant, Emma Thompson, and Kate Winslet
I have thoroughly enjoyed each and every book from Jane Austen. They always feel like my best friend sharing the juiciest gossip with me, and I always feel very attached to the characters.For more of my reviews, please visit my blog!
Dec 2 2017 - Read The Beautifull Cassandra, which is part of the Juvenilia Part 1 collection. Juvenilia is a collection of stories she wrote when she was very young. And boy oh boy does it show. This is clearly a story written by a child. I did not like it. 1 star.
Good reading, tremendous story telling about a long ago and more decent period, not the uneducated deductions of post Trumps eraGod story telling about a more decent period of our lives a more tranquil intelligence and advance era in the lives of decent gents
People tease me all the time that I was born in the wrong era. I enjoy these books a lot. Very well written.
My favorite author, I re-read her books often. Persuasion is my current favorite, but all are clever and funny, with her particular style of poking fun of the society she was a part of.
This is just a narration of an elequently deceives gossip and Bitch session 🙄 can’t believe I went through these voluntarily.
I love Jane Austen and this is a great collection to someone who enjoys her or wants to have classic English Literature at their disposal.
I read Persuasion
I think I've read Pride and Prejudice 30 times. 😊
I liked it but thought the premise so different from what I expected. Sure it’s fantasy but mostly it’s an enjoyable historical story.
