https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7348.Tree_and_Leaf
Tolkien's famous essay on fairy stories, Leaf by Niggle, and Mythopoeia (which was written as a response to C.S. Lewis saying that myths were lies).As one would expect the essay on fairy stories is rich and deep.
I would really like to hear it read aloud but I don't see an audio version anywhere of the entire thing ...
When paired with this essay, Leaf by Niggle takes on similarly deep resonance, especially when considering that Tolkien dreamed it.
Again, this is one I'd like to hear read aloud but it seems not to be available ...
I've actually read everything except 'Mythopoeia' from this volume before: I needed it to do references to 'The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth'.
'Homecoming' is an interesting commentary on 'The Battle of Maldon'.
I daren't comment more without plagiarising my essay, but it's definitely worth reading, and it's interesting to see so clearly how strongly his academic and creative work were bound together.
'Homecoming' is part-essay, part-drama, part-poetry.'Mythopoeia' is lovely, too.
'Leaf by Niggle' is nice, but more allegorical than you might expect from the man who professed to hate allegory.
And 'On Fairy-Stories' is important in understanding all his work, I'd say.
This collection consists of;- On Fairy-Stories: I’ve actually read this essay before but I found it so hard to read the first time round!
Personally, I prefer Chesterton’s chapter (The Ethics of Elfland) in Orthodoxy even though it looks at fairy tales in a very different (and less academic) way.- Mythopoeia: This was a lovely poem although I didn’t completely understand it.- Leaf by Niggle: I really enjoyed this short story about a man named Niggle, who neglects preparing for his eventual journey to paint a leaf.
Especially after reading so many of Tolkien's private letters, it's easy to see the parallels in his life.
While it is sad that Tolkien was never able to complete his Picture, and disappointing that in so many places he did "not have time now to do more than hint at what he wanted," I think Tolkien would have been pleased that his work has been "the best introduction to the Mountains" for many many readers.Update: Read On Fairy Stories at last (June 2016).
Not an easy read, but a good summary of how Tolkien saw Fairy Stories as an important and undervalued part of literature.
Contains "Leaf by Niggle" and "On Fairy Stories," two of the most important books I've ever read as a writer, a reader of novels, and an appreciator of humanity. These two writings of Tolkien really represent just why I deeply love this man.
I didn't read On Fairy Stories- I will need to read that at another time. I read Leaf by Niggle (my version didn't have any other stories), and I loved it, but as I have just now finished it, I can't say why or how. It needs time to sink in. All I will say is that Tolkien is an excellent author, and it's clearer now why LOTR is my favorite story of all time.
This is not what I was expecting.
This is not what I was expecting.
***Read for University***4.75 stars.I found the first part dealing with Faerie Stories was rather spot on with the thinkings of what I've always wondered about.
But I'm not here to talk about me lol.However as I noted in my updates on this book, it really drew me into Tolkien's world and take a first-hand peek inside his head, and it is certainly an eye-opener.As for the other material in here, I liked Mythopoeia, Leaf by Niggle and The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth were interesting and added to his primary article on Faerie Stories.

Tree and Leaf brings together a few shorter works that help illuminate Tolkien's thoughts on the uses and purposes of myth and story.
The essay "On Fairy-stories" outlines Tolkien's thoughts on what exactly makes up a fairy-story, as opposed to a fairy-tale, etc, and how story does not tell a beautiful lie, but a better truth that speaks to who we are.
Mythopoeia, a poem in response to detractors, is in many ways the same thoughts from Tolkien's essay but in poetic form.
"Leaf by Niggle" draws out the tensions of calling, responsibility and the "sub-creative" powers which we are endowed with as the imago dei.
This rather odd collection of poetry, story and essay is a gem.
It begins with Tolkien's exposition on what makes a fairy story and why such stories are for all of us (as always, I'm taken with his clarity and vision) and then moves into "Mythopoeia", a response to CS Lewis' assertion that myths and fairy tales are "breathing a lie through silver." (Tolkien insists that myths and fairy tales are True.) The end of the book is a translation of another mythic poem, quite interesting.
It was written around the same time as The Fellowship of the Ring and it illuminates Tolkien's very humble and hobbit-like character.
Not too too bad. "On Faerie Stories" was a little hard to follow because there were so many different definitions given that it was hard to keep track of what was what. I did like Niggle's short story though. The protagonist grows on you and becomes another one of Tolkien's very memorable characters.
Tolkien's exegesis on the fairy tale, the realm of Faerie, its inhabitants, their magic, the origin of fairy tales, and who the stories are intended for. A must-read for anyone who desires to write fantasy.
Inside this there are wonderfull opinions about its subject (which you might need to read again to understand 'em better), plus an unexpectedly stuning tale: Leaf by Niggle! No need to praise the author...
Tolkien's philosophical treatment of the importance of myth. Part 1: essayPart 2: short storyPart 3: poem
Interesting thoughts on the nature of fantasy literature and a poetic reflection by a master of the genre.
my best pick from this book would be Tolkien's poem, "Mythopoeia", and of course Tolkien's story about death, "Leaf by Niggle" ...
My favorite bit in this book: the short story "Leaf by Niggle". Sounds odd but grows from a strange beginning to a glorious joyful tale. Typical, wonderful Tolkien.
Leaf by Niggle. Excellent.
Very insightful opinions on the genre Fantasy/ Fairy-stories. It helped me a lot to understand a little of this so vast a world...
I like it thus far
I'll include a couple of interested quotes from that at the end.Then it went into the poem "Mythopeia" which Tolkien apparently wrote out of spite when he disagreed with a colleague who called fairy tales "lies", and while I love the fact that he was the kind of person to write convoluted epic poetry for the sake of argument, I found the poem somewhat difficult to follow and doubt that the person it was meant for would have been swayed by it in the least.Then there's the curious short story "Leaf by Niggle" which is very odd indeed.
:-) I was under the impression that the short story I loved most in adolescence, "Leaf, By Niggle" was authored by George MacDonald.
ha!) this is a more believable collection of stories and poems; and at times, persuasive apologetic for myth.
I tend to be a CS Lewis type who leans more into skepticism and quantities of knowledge that can be useful than trusting, resting, make-believe.
Mythopoeia was a enjoyable kick to my skeptical, knowledge-hoarding pants; opening with a melancholy yet satirical accusing finger: To one who said that myths were lies and therefore worthless,even though "breathed through silver"PHILOMYTHUS TO MISOMYTHUS.and another gem:"Yes!
Then my favorite, 'Leaf by Niggle', a semi-biographical short story illustrating the eventual creative triumph of a little protagonist, after wading through trial and prejudice.Last in this collection is Tolkien's translation, and reworking of an actual historical poem from the Old English, describing the aftermath of a disastrous battle fought in the year AD 991 where an English King was defeated by Viking forces.
There is a long essay on fairy tales, from a original lecture; two fairy tales written by Tolkien; and an epic poem revolving around the Battle of Maldon translated from the old English.The essay is great; for a fan of fantasy and fairy tale and anyone who believes in their value or gets irritated by the assumption that fairy tales are solely for children it is a great ode to the form, its importance in our imaginative heritance and a good argument for its place in the realms of adult literature.
His essay on Fairy-stories is followed by the poem Mythopoeia which highlights the strongest points made in the essay in a more charming way.
Leaf by Niggle is a short story that emphasises the importance of each individuals' contribution to this world via the avenues of their own type of creativity and how each person's gift should not be taken for granted.
As lord of your sub-creations, you cannot allow your pride to expose these loyal subject of your creativity to enemy forces.
You must guard them and value them as the valuable contribution to the world they are.
Never take creativity for granted, not even your own.

This is a treasure. If it was just an insight into Tolkien's alternative to Campbell's Jungian archetypes then it would be worth rereading for anyone interested in story construction. But not only does it have a whole section dealing with Myth and story through actual poetry, but is then followed by a lucid tale in Leaf By Niggle. And to top it off there's a translation of an ancient Anglo-Saxon poem.It masterfully practices what it preaches. This could feel a bit like an anthological mess, but instead is a cohesive insight into a great storyteller.
This book is so refreshing, sends such succulent flavours throughout my soul. It speaks so strongly of the wonderful world of Faerie, and Leaf by Niggle is such a strange but marvellous story. I just can't get enough of Mythopoeia, it's so sobering and excellent. The words I express are naught compared to the eloquence that Tolkien holds within him, which is so clearly seen in this book. On Fairy-stories is so very pulchritudinous, I would recommend anyone and everyone to read it. A beautiful read.
The story of Tree and Leaf is one of the best ones I have ever written. This is one of the few times where a book made me cry. It is such a sweet story with a powerful message if you allow the words to sink in.
