https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23437156-six-of-crows
I love that she’s one of those people whose warmth you want to draw in like solar light and whose laughter is the most beautiful thing you’ve ever seen and who have been through hell but are still kind and loving towards other humans and have the ability to make you feel that you belong and they’re so colorful and amazing and the world doesn’t deserve them!!✨ NINA ZENIK NINA ZENIK IS A CONSTANT REMINDER THAT GIRLS ARE BEAUTIFUL AND ETHEREAL AND I AM A PILE OF INCOHERENT SEAWEED WHEN IT COMES TO THEMI honestly wish I had more hearts to love Nina with because she's a fucking earthquake, she contains all of the beauty and fury of mother earth and when she digs her heels in stamped with rage, you'd wish you never crossed her.
It demands aim to land true.”Six of Crows is 185th book I've read this year.
Yes, that means this is the book that put me at my goodreads reading goal this year.
It was amazing.SoC is a novel with six main characters, depending on how you look at it five plus perspectives, breath-taking flashbacks, seamless world building, and twists that will make your tits drop."A gambler, a convict, a wayward son, a lost Grisha, a Suli girl who has become a killer, a boy from the Barrel who had become something worse."A direct quote and the most perfect sum up of the characters.
Trickery is not my native tongue, but I may learn to speak it yet. I was scared to start Six of Crows. The hype surrounding it has been HUGE, the blurb sounded intriguing, I've been eagerly anticipating it, and I liked but didn't love Shadow and Bone. Honestly, though? I needn't have worried. This book is fantastic.Shadow and Bone has been called fantasy-lite, but there is absolutely nothing about Six of Crows that warrants such a label. It's a sweeping epic tale with six main characters, five
This book is fantastic.Shadow and Bone has been called fantasy-lite, but there is absolutely nothing about Six of Crows that warrants such a label.
It's a sweeping epic tale with six main characters, five perspectives, complex and detailed world-building that is seamlessly integrated into the story, flashbacks to the characters' histories, and a wonderful blend of darkness, magic, action, humour and romance.In the hands of a less skilled author, this could have been a mess.
But Bardugo crafts each of her characters with love and sensitivity, allowing them to be extremely badass, wicked sometimes, and unlikable in that multi-layered way that actually makes them completely likable.
The heat of the incinerator wrapped around Inej like a living thing, a desert dragon in his den, hiding from the ice, waiting for her. She knew her body’s limits, and she knew she had no more to give. She’d made a bad wager. It was as simple as that. The autumn leaf might cling to its branch, but it was already dead. The only question was when it would fall.Let go, Inej. Her father had taught her to climb, to trust the rope, the swing, and finally, to trust in her own skill, to believe that if
The heat of the incinerator wrapped around Inej like a living thing, a desert dragon in his den, hiding from the ice, waiting for her.
Sometimes I felt like I was memorizing things for a test.But the good is that the characters are all bad-ass.
She’d said she wanted these things.
They don't try too hard to be rebels to be bad-ass, to deny their own nature to prove they can play with the boys, they're just themselves...that's confusing, I know, but I can't describe it any other way.There is romance, but so little of it, and what little there is felt natural and unobtrusive.
Wow..there are no words!I WANT TO GIVE THIS BOOK 10 STARS!This took me awhile to write, but I've been meaning to write a long review for awhile.So here it is!Six of Crows follows six teenagers living in the city of Ketterdam, a city of slums and crime lords.Kaz Brekker, an infamous thief (also known as Dirtyhands) is promised a very large sum of money to kidnap Bo Yul-Bayur, a scientist from the Ice Court.
Inej's goal is to make enough money off of her work for Haskell to pay off her contract and return home to Ravka.Next, Kaz recruits Jesper Fahey.
WHY DID IT TAKE ME SO LONG TO PICK THIS UP?What a ride!
This was exactly what I needed and so much more.
I'm tempted to give this a 4.75 star rating, but I want to mull it over a little while longer.
This deserved the full 5 stars.
Loved the heist.
Loved the world, especially after having read the Grisha trilogy, it was awesome to explore somewhere new.
Most of all, I LOVED the characters.
They were all so intriguing with fascinating life stories.
I cannot wait to jump into Crooked Kingdom and see where the story and these characters take me.
THIS WAS SO GREAT! I absolutely love the world building--there's a cool magic system and lots of different cities/cultures that have really fascinating dynamics. The ensemble cast of characters is also fantastic! They all have interesting backstories and distinct personalities. Writing is great, story is awesome, pacing on point. It wasn't quite PERFECT, but it was pretty freaking close, and I can't wait for the sequel!If you want a fantasy book with an awesome world, a well developed cast of characters, and an exciting heist storyline--THIS IS DEFINITELY THE BOOK FOR YOU.
originally read this last year, but decided to re-read it before six of crows! i'm so happy i made that decision. i had forgotten how rich this story is in detail. from the characters, to the world, to the plot, everything is built up so beautifully. the ending still gave me chills and i need crooked kingdom right. now.
SO MUCH FUN WITH THIS BOOK. FANTASTIC CAST OF CHARACTERS! HERE'S MY FULL BOOKTALK/REVIEW https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufgXQ...
This is the type of book that will blow you away with its words. IT WAS PHENOMENAL!!!!
THIS BOOK. I'm trying not to add to the hype pool right now, but like THIS BOOK. IT BLEW ME AWAY. It was unexpectedly brilliant! I WANNA BE IN THE SIX OF CROWS SQUAD.
“This isn't a job for trained soldiers and spies. It's a job for thugs and thieves.”  Dark and gritty adventure. A bunch of anti-heroes. A dangerous scientist. A nation of witch hunters. Gang wars. Grisha. And Leigh Bardugo. That's the recipe for EPICNESS.   “A gambler, a convict, a wayward son, a lost Grisha, a Suli girl who had become a killer, a boy from the Barrel who had become something worse.”  The fate of the world is in the hands of six teenagers, six street rats with no family and no
“A gambler, a convict, a wayward son, a lost Grisha, a Suli girl who had become a killer, a boy from the Barrel who had become something worse.”
Leigh Bardugo set the standards very high with the Grisha Trilogy, and in Six of Crows she did not disappoint.
If you're looking for resemblances between the Grisha and this book you will not find any, besides the fact that both series take place in the same world.
I am going to try harder to build a time-machine, because there is no way I am going to survive until next book is published.
OMG MY THISISEVERYTHINGREREADREREADREREAD
Mercy, Leigh, mercy. I hit myself in the head with this ARC too many times to count. Buckle up, folks, it's going be a razor-edged night.
Excellent novel is excellent. Review to come. ----WHAT IS THIS?
finished this at 3:30 AM this morning crying at the line "i will have you without armor, Kaz Brekker, or I will not have you at all."i'm addicted ????? yikes ???????
which is kind of the opposite experience from most reviewers, but i'm just me.and maybe i will just be me in this one, but i thought this was fantastic and after a bit of a slow and slightly confusing open, it turned into one of the most fun reading experiences i have had in a while.
the heist is very well thought out, the fantasy world fully realized (although it may be confusing to people who haven't read the other grisha books), it's got a refreshingly diverse racial/gender/sexual spectrum that doesn't feel like a checklist, the romance elements are justified and never take over the main story, and the characters are immensely likable.
All I have to say is, this book is somehow even more awesome than the original series. Don't be nervous about the multiple POVs--every character has history and agency, and you'll care deeply about every single one of them. Plus diversity! Kickass heroines! Gifted thieves! Amaaaaazing action sequences! All perfectly paced and perfectly thrilling. My full review, plus Grisha prize pack giveaway are on the blog: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2015...Here are a few of my favorite quotes from the book that I formatted, too! Get thee to a bookstore--the hardback is gorgeous, and so is the book. The author has outdone herself.
#awkward) Kaz's narrator had SO MUCH EMOTION I might've choked up several times.• Precious precious Kaz. Like I already knew I loved the little blackhearted demon...but that just magnified by 900 PERCENT.• DON'T EVEN TRY TO TALK SENSE TO ME.
LIKE SERIOUSLY NINA IS THE BEST HERE.• I mean, hello, Nina packed toffees after Kaz said "only bring essentials".• #relatable• Apart from squawking over the characters and being imminently in love with them all...anything else to note?• NOT REALLY.
Like I loved reading it, but often times when I put it down I just felt exhausted from trying to keep up and I wished it'd been more concise.
Here is where I always list a hot take younger me had (such as thinking the television program "Degrassi" was the apex of cinematic art), or something dumb younger me did (such as literally never eat a salad even once), in order to illustrate just how stupid that was.This is the person who read and loved Six of Crows.That version of me was also #new to the book-internet scene and, ahem, DESPERATE TO FIT IN.
came for the kaz brekker hype; stayed for the jurda crazy grisha, the heist, the nina/matthias tension, the scheming face, the ‘my ghost would not associate with your ghost’ talk, and of course, the kaz brekker hype.in other words, i am absolute trash for this book and leigh bardugo has eternal claim to my soul. 5 stars
I'm just going to pretend the ending never happened. They completed their mission job, got their money, and lived happily ever after.  CROOKED KINGDOM NEVER HAPPENED! ✪ ✪ ✪ ✪ "Six people, but a thousand ways this insane plan could go wrong." Favorite character: NINA!!!!! No! Stop it, Kainat, stop it! You must contain yourself.!Remember when i read this book for the first time, i couldn't even do a proper review because i couldn't find any words so describe my love for this book? well, my reread
I'm just going to pretend the ending never happened.
You must contain yourself.!Remember when i read this book for the first time, i couldn't even do a proper review because i couldn't find any words so describe my love for this book?
I don't even want the second book, i don't wanna know what's going to happen next.
I kinda liked the ending because that means we are going to dark dark places in the next book.
Though it might seem like i don't love others as much as Nina and Mathias, that is not true!
How can i not love Kaz and Inej?!
How to begin this review?
How to put into words how much I loved these characters and this book?How am I supposed to write down all those many feels?
And most importantly,How can I live with this ache in my chest?
I have no answer to all of those questions, but I know that I have to write this review!
Let’s hope my voice doesn’t falter and pray that my words don’t fail.
“The heart is an arrow.
It demands aim to land true.” When I first read about “Six of Crows” I thought that it w
He’s so strong but vulnerable at the same time and I swear when I read about his past and saw how much he struggled my heart actually ached for him.
It’s a delicate thing.””It was because she was listening so closely that she knew the exact moment when Kaz Brekker, Dirtyhands, the bastard of the Barrel and the deadliest boy in Ketterdam, fainted.”Inej: ”Her eyes were so brown they were almost black, and for once her hair was down.
Kaz and his fear to be touched killed me and the knowledge Inej didn’t understand his inner conflict actually shattered my heart!
ONE OF MY FAVORITE BOOKS EVER. So happy I waited until I was in the right headspace to read this mammoth of a masterpiece, and that I have the sequel at the ready! <3
Here, Bardugo integrates a creative plot, interesting and morally grey characters, group dynamics and banter, a great writing style, and some really, really prime romance plots.
PLOTTING AND WORLDBUILDINGBardugo tosses you right into the main plot from the beginning and keeps you engaged all the way through, even when her focus is on character work.
Kaz and Inej are one of my all-time favorite book couples.
TL;DR: I was never bored by this book, and I love the characters more than my own life.
First of all, if you like books with #squadgoals, this is one of the best I’ve ever read (in fact, I’d say that the Dregs are perfectly tied with my other favorite bookish squad, which is the Night Court’s inner circle).
→ Jesper Fahey ←In the start of the book, I feel like Jesper is one of the characters we are given the least chances to love, but by the end, he was so precious and hilarious that I just wanted to squeeze him.
I didn’t know what to think of Wylan initially, but just like all the other characters in this book I fell in love with his humor and courage and actions.Oh and his dialogue with Jesper?
I don’t even have the right words right now to describe how incredibly brave and strong and funny Nina is.Reading about all that she's been through made me love her strength even more — how she didn’t give up on Matthias made me tear up.
I had no idea going into this book what an impact it would have on me, I knew I would love it, but what I’m feeling is beyond that— I don’t even have the right words to describe it.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsMy FEELS are broken. Words, too. Which is making the reviewing of SIX OF CROWS by Leigh Bardugo more than a little bit difficult . . . FYI. SO. Hmm . . . *scratches head* The book started well enough, but by 40% it was more determination that kept me reading than enthusiasm. The characters were great. I felt like they were decently developed, and it was a veritable thunderstorm of one-liners and clever dialogue: Kaz Brekker didn’t need a reason. “He’s going to ge
Which is making the reviewing of SIX OF CROWS by Leigh Bardugo more than a little bit difficult .
I was bored while reading a book about a HEIST.
*waves at Kaz* *swoons* And regardless of how slow I felt the middle section of the book was, the writing was consistently fantastic:
Pretty great, right?SIX OF CROWS by Leigh Bardugo is the first installment of her new YA fantasy series, and I LOVED it.
I wanted to be the one person in the world who made Kaz feel something.
I wanted to bang Matthias' and Nina's stupid heads together like .
(we love a bisexual god)- Wylan’s cheeks turning pink EVERY single time Jesper flirts with him,, Wylan my love when are you going to get used to this type of behavior from Jesper- hello I’m a sharpshooter and my name is Jesper “I’m skinny but stay drier in the rain because less falls on me” Fahey (this scene with Matthias is one of my favorite parts ever and it’s such a Jesper thing to say and I love it I love him wHY IS HE LIKE THIS)- Inej climbing up the incinerator even though her shoes are literally melting onto her feet and there are no handholds and she wants to give up and just fall but the thought of destroying pleasure houses and slave ships gets her through it god what a queen forever my favorite- Kaz, for once in his life, admitting that he screwed up.
HOWEVER, once it got past that point I was absolutely hooked and breezed through the rest of the book in a couple of days.I loved the characters, and their group dynamic was flawless.
If I had to pick a favorite character I'd be hard-pressed to pick just one, because they are all #goals (Kaz, Inej and Nina tho)The plot moved along quickly after the halfway point, and there were plenty of twists and turns to keep things interesting.
My only issue aside from the weird pacing in the beginning was how at the end it felt like Leigh Bardugo was forcing all of the characters to pair up.
