https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7983.Salamandastron
If this was not enjoyable, then neither is a concoction of cocoa. And that is all I have to say on the matter.
And he set off on a great quest to defeat all the vermin overlords of the north?
I read this when I was about 10 years old and all of the books just seem to run together, but basically, they're about woodland creatures defeating vermin overlords.
Tim, although it is probable that you just requested this for laughs, if you are going to read a Redwall book, read "Martin the Warrior" and then read "Redwall."Sincerely, 10 year old me.
I decided to read this book because I wanted to understand the whole series of Redwall.
This book was about a moutain called Salamandastron being attacked by a never-ending band of Ferahgo the Assassin's Corpsemakers.
When reading this book, I thought of me being in Japan.
This book is a little different from the other books because the intro was the start of a dibbuns bed time story and there was no attacks on Redwall (I guess because this book was called Salamandastron).
I feel proud for Brain Jacques because he was the author of the book I read which got me into reading.
While the fever was random and Thrugg and Dumble’s quest added even more viewpoints to the already viewpoint-heavy book (seriously, there’s six different major viewpoints in this book: Salamandastron, Ferahgo/Klitch, Mara, Samkim, Thrugg, and Redwall), the side plot was a welcome relief from the five other viewpoints going on.
For once I’d like to see a villain who actually loves his family; I’m not sure if Jacques has that in future books, but considering his archetype for villains, probably not.
It’s not something I see or read often, although maybe I’m just not reading the right books.Is it just me, or are all the heroes (well, Samkim, Arula, Mara, and Pikkle) incredibly boring?
5 stars from the 10ish year old me reading her first ever fantasy novel.
Jacques is an excellent writer; I really do love the way he blends multiple story lines throughout the books only to tie them up together in one neat little package at the end.
However adult me recognizes that each books plot is almost exactly the same, and doesn't really like having a moral lesson shoved down my throat at every opportunity.
All the same, I look forward to reading these with my little ones someday.
I think they are the perfect stories to instill a love of reading into a child.
All I can say is five stars. I can't properly review Redwall titles because when I read one I'm seven years old again. And I don't think anyone wants to read the inane burblings of my seven-year-old self. I'm bad enough at sixty-mumble.Just read 'em...
AUGH!3- Which makes other parts of the book anachronistic because they are all about woodland creatures killing each other, poisoning, stabbing lances through hearts, slicing throats, I mean seriously gory, violent stuff.4- The accents are now pissing me off.
The moles speak this kind of cockney that is so annoying and difficult to read I skim over all of it.
And the clever plot twists and cliffhangers kept me curious and reading past the annoying elements.However, between the food and the accents, I skimmed at least 50% of this book.
The first 3 books in the Redwall series are great though.

Everything there is good food and celebrations, with occasional light punishments for scamps like Samkim the squirrel and his best friend Arula the molemaid, until a couple stoats accidentally do something horrible.
Despite its copious amounts of (not explicitly described) violence and death, Salamandastron definitely read like it was meant for a younger audience - I’m guessing either the high end of the Middle Grade age range or the low end of the Young Adult.
Not to mention, Mara and Pikkle should still have been worried sick about what Ferahgo and his band might be doing to their friends and family back at Salamandastron.
After Thura dies of Dryditch fever and Dingeye is killed by the fox Dethbrush, whom Ferahgo had sent out to find them, Samkim and Arula, along with another group of shrews under the leadership of Alfoh, chase after Dethbrush, who now has the sword and is trying to escape in a boat through the same lake where Mara, Pikkle, and Log-a-Log have gone searching for the Blackstone.
As Mara begins her quest throughout Mossflower country, meeting up with Guosssom shrews and members from Redwall, Salamandastron falls under attack by a disarming, ruthless blue-eyed ferret.
While not particularly outstanding, this is one of the better and perhaps more famous Redwall novels and I recommend it and enjoy rereading it.Salamandastron features some of my favorite characters and one of my favorite battle sequences.
I do recommend this book, although there are other Redwall novels that I enjoy more, and I like coming back to and rereading this one.
Its appeal is undying, because it touches on timeless topics: the importance of family (complex relationship between Mara and Urthstripe), young ones growing up and learning responsibility (Samkim and Arula leaving their home to return to it different beasts), protecting the weak from the evil (Urthstripe and the Long Patrol defending the shores and all of Mossflower), giving your best to save your friends (Thrugg’s race against time to find cure for Dryditch Fever for the Abbey dwellers).The heroes of the book were remarkable, but it was the villains who truly mesmerized me.

Thrugg and Dungle won my heart.
I didn't notice the main plotflow of the story for the most part (I have a habit of zoning out on books from time to time), but when I heard about the disease, Dryditch fever, my little ten-year-old mind went into a panic.
I've always had a great fear about getting some kind of horrible incurable infectious disease, and Dryditch is just the kind of thing that got my little heart racing (I'm more worried about Ebola these days).
Dungle of course had the perfect adorable little dibbun name which I just loved to pronounce.
This is a story of one of the badgers, her overpowering "father," and a weasel that wants to take over the holy mountain.
Out of the books read in the series thus far, this one has FAR too many characters and story lines going on at the same time to make it readable.
If you're not reading in one sitting, you're trying to remember who the random mouse is that's on another mountain looking for flowers.
It's not the worst story in the world, to be sure, but the many story lines makes it quite challenging.
This was my favorite of the Redwall series, because I'm all about the fighting hares who speak in British accents. And I loved the badgers. Despite the ridiculous factor of these books - just reading the words "Urthstripe, Badger Lord of Fire Mountain" made me laugh - they are awesome. Someday I will probably reread up until The Pearls of Lutra (was there even a series after Pearls of Lutra?).
I'm giving all these books a 4, because they basically GOT me hooked on fantasy I think. I read all of these in elementary school, and still have fond memories floating around, even if the books are shit. Here's a review from my 10 year old mind. The rad legendary weapons, (with the channels etched in for blood flow, which i found super hardcore). The foods, the booze, honey mead and apple wine or whatever. Come to think of it, these books might also be a little responsible for my alcoholism, too.
My first experience with Brain Jacques, and boy, the rumors were true!Salamandastron offers:1. A wonderfully detailed and absorbing atmosphere2. A memorable cast of fun characters3. Countless descriptions of meals and feasts. Jacques seems to suffer from some strange psychological compulsion that forces him to tell us what each and every character had for breakfast, lunch, and dinner for the duration of the book.
I didn't like Mattimeo, but I think this was the one where I decided I was really done with the series. It had ceased to have any meaning to me, and I felt like Jacques was just writing the same thing over and over and over.
so intensely sad but courageous and thrilling with charcters to change us one with humor two with vengance and tgwo with loss and love but also one witgh courage and strength to fight for change a nd the past
Loved it. Brian Jacques is a force to be reckoned with.(I've read the entire series)
This book follows multiple different storylines that focus primarily on the titular badger stronghold of Salamandastron (which is pronounced Sal-a-MAN-das-tron, not SAL-a-man-DAS-tron, as a few different Redwall fans elucidated for me) as it is attacked by a horde of unpleasant animals led by the Assassin Ferahgo.
It also seems just a little strange to me now how the tone of these books shifts pretty drastically from 'idyllic, Wind in the Willows-esque paradise where all woodland creatures live in harmony' to battle scenes where characters are killed in fairly explicit detail (although never quite so explicit as, say, A Song of Ice and Fire, naturally), but I guess this is kind of a 'young adult' book in that sense, or maybe a book for like, middle schoolers or high schoolers, rather than the little kids I had initially thought of.
Mara is the son of Urthstripe, the strongest badger in the land, but is not satisfied with her fate, so she runs away with her best friend Pikkle, an energetic hare.
They are then swept in a quest to find and kill the white badger, who is said to haunt creatures in their sleep.
Arula and Samkin have been inseparable friends since birth, and when they find the sword of Martin the Warrior, they believe that their realm is saved.
The quests of all four of these animals are intertwined, and they find themselves facing Ferahgo the assassin and his nasty horde, who have trapped Urthstripe and his crew.
On the way they make countless friends, including Mara the badger and Pikkle the hare, who fled Salamandastron in search of adventure and freedom, only to find out that their beloved mountain was under attack from an evil weasel named Ferahgo.
Urthstripe, the badger Lord of the mountain and his loyal hares must battle to save their home.
Back at Redwall, the Abbey has been hit with a deadly sickness, and 2 unlikely heroes, an old otter named Thrugg and his baby mouse friend Dumble must set out to find the medicine that will save everyone.
So far in my reading of the Redwall novels, the character relationships in "Salamandastron" are my favorite.
However, my main hang-up with "Salamandastron" is the same I have with "Mattimeo", which is I found there to be one too many storylines to deal with.
Just as I felt the General Ironbeak stuff didn't seem to matter, the journey of Thrugg and Dimble to find the Flowers of Icetor, although fun, feels irrelevant given the "interwoven-ness" of the other three storylines.
Anyway, still a strong novel in the Redwall saga, and I am again looking forward to the next!
I really enjoyed this book.
I think what I enjoy the most is the detailed descriptions of the food.
I have never read a book where there was descriptions of food that I actually read through...normally I skim past those passages in other novels.The other thing I really like about the book is the high positivity of the characters.
They are always doing their best to reflect high spirits even in the most dire situations and it's hard not to want to reflect that.Anyone who enjoys fantasy novels and adventure stories will enjoy books in the Redwall series.
Salamandastron is the mountain of the badgers. it will come under attack in this story. A young rebel will learn a painful lesson. Redwall Abbey is hit with a deadly illness, which leads to a search party being sent to find a specific flower needed for the cure. The birds of prey are introduced in this novel. There are moments of humor. There is a story of good and evil, life and death contained in these pages.
Brian Jacques does a great job of getting us to view our world through his world of critters. I have read a couple other books in this series so when I stumbled upon Salamandastron, I grabbed it! Not disappointed in any way. Jacques is a wonderful writer with a vivid imagination which he delivers in such a way that we simply float along with him.
I very deeply enjoy the redwall series. Lately, I have been pondering the people in my life and am seeing many correlations with the Redwall characters. It is fun for me to see people in a slightly different light.
I very deeply enjoy the redwall series. Lately, I have been pondering the people in my life and am seeing many correlations with the Redwall characters. It is fun for me to see ¨people¨ in a slightly different light.
Loved this series when I was young. Decided to read the odd one or two I missed. The stories are still interesting. Although reading with adult eyes, there is a lot of filler in the form of fictitious food description. Admittedly, it will make you hungry. Would recommend the series to everyone.
