https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1355677.Anabasis
نقل از رویوی اچ.ام.: و از خورشید هرگز نامی نمیآید اما اقتدارش در میان ماستیکی از پیچیده ترین و بزرگترین اشعار سده بیستم میلادی از شاعر و سیاستمدار بزرگ فرانسوی الکسی لژه است؛ که اشعارش را با نام مستعار سن ژون پرس منتشر میکرد؛ و زندگی سیاسی و هنری ایشان، هماره در هاله ای از ابهام، بوده است؛ آناباز بی شک معروفترین منظومه ی ایشانست که: تی.اس.
The poet wrote mainly for himself, but after the manuscript was brought back to France by friends, Anabase won instant esteem, with translations into several major European languages by the end of the decade, and the facing-page rendering into English here was made by no less a major figure than T.S. Eliot.For some weeks, Leger traveled on horseback through China's rural provinces and the Gobi Desert, which inspired this great poem of migration, ten cantos narrated by a Conqueror glorying in his victories, but driven ever onward to new lands.

از خود شعر تقریباً چیزی نفهمیدم. بعد مقدمهٔ الیوت رو خوندم که گفته شش بار شعر رو خونده تا تونسته بفهمتش و ترجمهش کنه و مقداری تسکین پیدا کردم. بهجز شعر، این کتاب، یعنی چاپ انتشارات فردا، حاوی مقالهها و مقدمههایی از افراد مختلف دربارهٔ شاعر و «آناباز»ه و خطابهٔ نوبل «سن ژون پرس» که بهترین بخش کتاب بود بهنظرم. ایمانی که این آدم به کار شعر و ادبیات داره رشکبرانگیزه.همونطور که مانا روانبد گفته، این شعر دو ترجمه داره: یکی کار سپانلو که بهش نمیخوره از پس این شعر دشوار براومده باشه؛ چون بههرحال سپانلوئ
بعد مقدمهٔ الیوت رو خوندم که گفته شش بار شعر رو خونده تا تونسته بفهمتش و ترجمه‌ش کنه و مقداری تسکین پیدا کردم.
ایمانی که این آدم به کار شعر و ادبیات داره رشک‌برانگیزه.همون‌طور که مانا روانبد گفته، این شعر دو ترجمه داره: یکی کار سپانلو که بهش نمیخوره از پس این شعر دشوار براومده باشه؛ چون به‌هرحال سپانلوئه دیگه و عیار این آدم مشخصه.
مهریار رو نمی‌شناسم، اما نیکبخت رو به‌واسطهٔ کارهاش، آدم درجه یکی می‌دونم و بهش اعتماد دارم.
خلاصه اگه خواستید بخونید چاپ هرمس رو، با ترجمهٔ سپانلو، که معروف‌تر هم هست نخونید و سعی کنید نسخهٔ نشر فردا رو که کمیاب هم هست پیدا کنید.
And this book is surely his masterpiece, a work of such scope and ambition that it stands comfortable comparison with anything produced in the field of poetry during the past 100 years.Anabasis is an obtuse epic, a long musical poem, rich in astonishing imagery, that glistens when read aloud.
Foundation of the city.V. Restlessness towards further explorations and conquests.VI.
But it is a story for all time, one that contemplates the world, the migrant existence and the growth of civilization, as well as making sense of man's innate cravings, for adventure, for challenge, for conquest.
Very difficult. T.S. Eliot said to read it four times. I will give this a try and report back.
Ok, I've just become so jaded by these nobel laureates that I'm just going to go ahead and give this 1 star. I'm fed up trying to interpret or read explanations of the poems. A poem should explain itself, rather than require an entire essay to explain what it's trying to say. Just my opinion, I'm sure some will disagree.
Shortly after reading this my body succumbed to an immobilizing fever. Just so you know...
این کتاب را نخست سپانلو ترجمه کرد، با اشتباهات فراوان و ناقص، بعد کامل و با نقصان کمتراما هنوز بهترین ترجمهی آن متعلق است به محمود نیکبخت و آقای مهریار (مرحوم) که در اصفهان منتشر شد و کمتر دیده شده است
این کتاب را نخست سپانلو ترجمه کرد، با اشتباهات فراوان و ناقص، بعد کامل و با نقصان کمتراما هنوز بهترین ترجمه‌ی آن متعلق است به محمود نیکبخت و آقای مهریار (مرحوم) که در اصفهان منتشر شد و کمتر دیده شده است

I think this book was a lot like Catcher in the Rye for me -- I read it too late.
I've already read Eliot and Ashbery and, as innovative as it was when it was written, I just didn't care as much as I might have earlier.
It's rather like Wagner in its apparent desire to avoid anything catchy or memorable.
I couldn't recall a single line from it.
I just don't consider lack of memorableness on the line level a virtue in poetry.
If you haven't read anything like it, read it.
This word salad was like reading a compressed transcript of a day's worth of my grandfather's monologues when he was in the middle stages of dementia. I mean, I GUESS you guys aren't lying when you said you liked it, but you really must be living in some other plain of existence. Very Jackson Pollack IMO.
Beeldschone taal, maar o, zo ingewikkeld.
ديوان شعر لكاتب حاصل على جائزة نوبل، قصيدة واحدة لكن مكونة من 10 قصائد تقريباً أو أبواب.استمتعت بهم جداً.
My soul is full of deceit like the agile strong sea under the vocation of eloquence!
But if a man shall cherish his sorrow - let him be brought to light!
The bird made off!" [45:]"The huge earth rolls on its surface over-flowing its pale embers under the ashes - Sulphur color, honey color, color of immortal things, the whole grassy earth taking light from the straw of last winter - and from the green sponge of a lonely tree the sky draws its violet juices." [61:]"(The shadow of a great bird falls on my face.)" [67 - the conqueror thinking about how he still has more to accomplish:]"I have halted my horse by the tree of the doves, I whistle a note so sweet, shall the rivers break faith with their banks?" [2nd Song:]
When I travel I carry the poetry of St. John Perse and the complete Death Bed edition of Walt Whitman.
St. John Perse must be read in a dual language edition.
If you have studied the French language, have read Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Homer, Hegel, Jung, Thomas Wolf: our own genius of Southern writing of things felt and lived and used these as platforms for entering the seascapes and a world in four dimensions of St. John Perse then you have unlocked the expanse and elevating poetics of space, of time, of water, of conversation and conquest.
For those who love a touch of mystery and disorientation, and who love to take puzzle pieces and try to arrange them into a meaningful composition--not that it lacks composition, but it maintains its' fluidity through it.
I was intrigued enough by the author, and this poem in particular, to go digging for whatever I could find about his compositional techniques.
After his death, it turns out, researchers were allowed access to his library/papers and discovered "cut-out" sentences and fragments from magazines, articles, encyclopedias, etc, which he then pasted together into poems.
Gorgeous, unexpected images and shifts in perspective, like cuts and splices in a film.
"Chanson""Mon cheval arrêté sous l'arbre plein de tourterelles, je siffle un sifflement si pur, qu'il n'est promesses à leurs rives que tiennent tous ces fleuves.
(Feuilles vivantes au matin sont à l'image de la gloire)...**Et ce n'est point qu'un homme ne soit triste, mais se levant avant le jour et se tenant avec prudence dans le commerce d'un vieil arbre, appuyé du menton à la dernière étoile, il voit au fond du ciel à jeun de grandes choses pures qui tournent au plaisir ...**Mon cheval arrêté sous l'arbre qui roucoule, je siffle un sifflement plus pur...
Il a écrit encore une chose très douce.
I did not know what to expect from this book, and I was surprised. Quite excellent. It does require more readings, but they are readings I'm looking forward to doing versus dreading, as if there were more to be mined from the poem. Interestingly, this book reminds me a bit of Nikos Gatsos's "Amorgos," another book-length poem that elusive in meaning but very worthy of re-reading and contemplating.
The prose poetry is very similar to that of Arthur Rimbaud, one of my favorite poets. The text is translated into English by T.S. Eliot, who's literary credibility is difficult to undermine. One of the best dollars I ever spent on a paperback.
Review to come. Maybe. Think Eliot's "Gerontion," with emphasis on the cool parts, expanded into a book length poem. I'll try to explain later. It's early yet, but I'm pretty sure I'll re-reading this for years to come.
Mejor en francés, para saborear la musicalidad.
There were some beautiful passages in this book. I especially liked the market place descriptions and the ending. It would have been completely lost on me without the outline in the preface.
One of my favorite poets, translated by one of my favorite poets? Please, yes please.
whoa!"impersonal," in MacLeish's blurb, sums it up.wow, it is amazing to write so impersonally.the old prefaces at the end are really great too.
I want to read this book personally
