https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71771.The_Bastard
The book follows one young man for a few years from a small village in France, to a manor in England, London, & then to Boston & Philadelphia up until the opening salvo in the American Revolutionary War.I've read several articles over the years that said Jakes had the historical facts down pat & I didn't spot anything wrong, although pushing an old horse 35 miles a day for over a week seems pretty harsh to me.
Phillipe's meetings with famous people made me interested in reading far more about them than dry facts ever did.
I can't think of this novel without thinking of 'Knowing Me, Knowing You.' I must have read each volume of the Kent Family Chronicles at LEAST four times each with the first three (The Bastard, The Rebels, The Seekers) being my favorites.
After all, Phillippe kisses the "valley between Alicia's breasts." I had no idea what smutty was, but I did quite like Philip Kent and when Andrew Stevens played him in the mini-series I liked him even more.When I found these had been re-released, my curiosity got the better of me.
It's really hard for me to rate this accurately because (and I know this is bizarre) this was one of my absolute favorite books when I was in middle school. I was so big on the Bicentennial Series that it's hard for me to see it clearly.So. The prose does not hold up. The characters are kind of hilarious in their sexism. But my affection for hearing this story again is pretty unmatched, so: FOUR STARS, DAMMIT.
After hopeless efforts of trying to convince them, the situation escalates and goes from bad to worse, prompting Phillipe to flee Europe to America, and changing his name to Phillip Kent, whilst learning the ropes in America, arriving in Boston, and along the way, meeting many famous historic figures such as the Founding Fathers of America, Samuel Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, and Paul Revere, also some I've never heard of, Edmund Burke, I could go on forever, HAHA!
Just arrived from USA through BM.
This is the first book of the Kent Family Chronicles.The plot describes the life of Philippe Charboneau, the bastard son of Duke of Kentland, who in search of his legitimate inheritance, fights with his half brother, Roger, in order to prevail his legal rights.However, when Philippe and his mother Jane, went to claim his rights, Roger and his mother plot against them and forced them seek refuge quickly in London in order to avoid a false murder charge.In London, Philippe is introduced to the printing trade.
16)I can’t, for the life of me, figure out why it has taken me—self-professed lover of epic historical novels—so long to get around to reading my first novel by the “godfather of historical novelists,” John Jakes.
I’m certainly not planning to let another forty-one years lapse before I delve into my next John Jakes novel, nor should you.
Perhaps in some small way, these novels will help remedy that unhappy situation—and prove, at the same time, as entertaining as only an epic adventure of the spirt can be.”—from the Afterword (p.
Back in the seventies my dad and I sometimes read books together.
The seventies are a while back.What I do remember is reading the first and second books: "The Bastard" and "The Rebels." I liked all the books but those two stood out because it was the beginning of our country.
To me, Philip Kent was a true hero, and maybe because these were the first really "good" books that I read I remember them so well.
That's not quite true.
I don't remember so much what actually happened in the books, but at the time, mid-seventies, I really enjoyed them.
of the series, which i read within 5 days while working about an eight hour day.
So you get a panoramic view of history instead of the chopped up version I got in high school and in college.If you like well documented history, a good read with well developed characters, pick them up, take a week off, lock yourself in a room, and enjoy the ride!(Oh, I forgot to tell you the lesson I learned.
I finished only to discover there was another book in the series.
This one review is for all 8 the books in the series.
The Bastard, written in 1974, is the first book of John Jakes bicentennial series.
Phillipe Charboneau, being raised by his mother Marie, leads a lonely life at the family inn in France.
John Jakes weaves a story around well known historical figures as Phillip Kent (Phillipe Charboneau) grows into manhood as a country grows into a nation.
I can find no fault with my first review but since writing it have read several criticisms by other Goodreads members about John Jakes use of prominent historical figures in weaving his stories.
The Bastard is the first in a series of eight novels called The Kent Family Chronicles.
The author provides a family tree tracing the Kent family through all eight books, indicating which characters inhabit which books.In The Bastard, we see the mercantile class in France, royalty of England, and freedom-seeking patriots in America.
Main character, Philip Kent, finds himself in America working in a Boston print shop.
Though he is a bastard son of British royalty, he must choose sides when he finds himself confronted with The Boston Tea Party and his personal dilemmas.
11/85, 4 stars ****Ah, how one's tastes change over the years. I loved the North & South trilogy, have never read this lot, so thought I'd give the first a go. Unfortunately, though, I probably won't carry on with the next. Not because it was a bad book as such, but just because it did drag on a bit and it obviously just isn't my cup of tea anymore. I'm still giving it 4 stars though, because it's Mr Jakes, you know, and his historical fiction is always on the mark so he's worth it on that basis alone ;)
After talking about Jack wanting to Read GWTW I tried to remember adult books I read when I was a child. Sadly, this is one of the first that comes to mind. I read the whole Kent Family Saga when I was 12 or so. I liked them at the time, but I hesitate to go back and reread. These were the first books I ever read where fictional characters interacted with people from history.
This was one of the first major historical novels that I have ever read and have been hooked on them ever since! This novel took a time in history and made it vivid and clear for the reader. Full of adventure and wonderful characters. I honestly do not know how many times I have read this novel and still found it amazing! Highly recommended-the whole series!
Excellent story....and it left me wanting to read more in the series.
IntriguingI enjoy historical literature immensely, especially when written in a manner that makes me believe these historical people were real. John Jake's does that for me.
The entirety of the first book is a journey of the main character to determine who he wants to be and who he is.
This coupled with multiple serendipitous moments that lead to story progression was also disappointing.On the other hand, like any good historical fiction, you are made to feel as if you are looking into another period of time.
Although I recognized several supporting characters, i.e. Benjamin Franklin, Samuel Adams, Ben Revere, I am oblivious as to whether the elements of the story accurately depict the historical events.
The first of an 8 volume set of historical fiction by John Jakes.
The Bastard starts out with Phillipe living with his mother Marie in France.
When they arrive they find out his father is dead and his half brother Roger wants Phillipe eliminated.Phillipe and his mother Marie travel to America to avoid being killed by Roger and his henchmen.
He participates in the Boston Tea Party and first battle of the Revolutionary War. I am a history buff and I enjoy Jake's manner of weaving a fictional story about the Kent family into the history of our country.
This one and the couple of its sequels I read treaded dangerously close to what I would call "soap opera" status.We follow Philip from the time in his "youth" when he discovers (from his mother who has kept the secret till this point) that he is the "bastard" of the title.
Cool...except that the duke's family isn't thrilled about his existence.Life is tough (I mean really, really) tough for Philip and his mother.
We follow them through the trials and tribulations of survival.
Well, I figured this would be as much as it is - this falls under Historical, but it should be more of Historical Romance, which is not my fare - Sure, it is no Romance novel with "breasts heaving" kind of thing, but the "hero" is not a very heroic gentleman at all, nor is he a character that I like.
No character is one that I like, and that is what made this hard to continue with.The overview of this novel, and the entire series, sounds promising and interesting, but the words that fell onto these pages was far from interesting.
Every word and every page seemed to force the character forward instead of him going that way naturally.
If I could give this book more than 5 stars, I would. What a great read. I had a lot of fun with this book. The book is about Phillipe Charboneau, who later changes his name to Phillip Kent. He travels from France to England, and then to America in search of himself and a place he can call home. All of the historical characters really made it exciting. They included Paul Revere, Sam Adams, John Adams, and Benjamin Franklin was a riot. I’m glad the story doesn’t end here and I’m looking forward to the second book.
This is Book One of the Kent Family Chronicles, a series I read 40-some years ago. This book takes you to major Revolutionary events leading up to and closing with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. Phillip Kent is present at many of them and meets all the major figures of the time both in the Colonies and in London before he emigrates to America. This title is followed by seven more in the series. I was impressed and enjoyed the series back then, but now I find that I want smaller scope and more detail in my reading.
Rejoice, Rachel!Done with The Bastard! It took me a while, but that doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it. Earnest and at times a little too concerned with being historically accurate/specific, this book was thoroughly enjoyable and full of characters that you can't help but liking - even if they are a little ridiculous. Be warned: side effects of this book include spontaneous obsession with Benjamin Franklin and slight tummy ache induced by machismo.
I finally picked up a book by John Jakes, and I am so glad I did. I am even more glad that it is a series - I can't wait to read the next one! This book starts in France, travels to England, and ends up in colonial America at the start of the Revolutionary war. It's filled with interesting characters and lots of history - any fan of historical fiction will be sure to love this one.
I'm not sure if I felt excited rereading this book again after more than 20 years... but I did have a nice time catching up with an old fictional friend. As an adult I feel as though the book was a little trashy..sometimes even annoying. I'm not sure if I want to reread the rest of the series.. I guess time will decide.
What an enjoyable book! This is exactly why I love historical fiction - there's action and key people/places, and the authors weave great people on top. The book got a bit draggy in places, but I expect that with over 500 pages. I look forward to finding out what happens in the next book.
An awesome first book of a great series written by a great writer! Historical fiction starting before the American revolution
Remembered today that I read this book in the 70's. An epic historical novel. I loved it.
I learned more about US History from John Jakes than any textbook. It brought the dates and events into human focus. I'm going to have my kids read them when they're studying US History.
one of the best historical sagas with the Kent Family. Amazing because it led to my complete obsession with history. American history for this one.
Phillipe has struggled along with his mother to carve a lifestyle out of a country inn in rural France.
After his mother catches him in a compromising situation, she tells him the story of his birth and why her expectations are so high for him – he is the bastard child of an English lord.
When word arrives that Phillipe’s father is ill, they travel to England in the hopes that upon his death Phillipe will inherit half of his father’s money.
Unfortunately, luck doesn’t shine down on Phillipe and his mother, Marie.
Will Phillipe find his home?
