https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33311863-american-war
On one hand, it is action-packed and a pretty horrifying dystopian novel.
On the other, my suspension of disbelief was severely challenged by the timeline and the realignment of world power (don't worry - no spoilers).
The protagonist, Sarat is an interesting and tragic figure, but she was hard to have sympathy for at times.
The thing that bugged me about the book was the almost complete absence of black characters (other than the protagonist) and descriptions of racism.
Some of the other catastrophes were as horrifying even if they begged - as I mentioned before - quite a lot of suspension of disbelief.
Make it close to reality with an event that changes it enough to be dystopia, regardless of whether the event itself is realistic.Another essential element.This book is trying to be modeled by the second option, but falls short in enough ways to suspend believability and make the reader question the timeline and events in the context of what we know to be true.Aww, now this is more like it.
If this war was meant to be in any way believable, we would have to agree that our country learned nothing the first time and were willing to do the exact same thing a couple hundred years later.
A father is killed and a mother in desperation takes her small family, son and two twin daughters, Dana and Sarat and is allowed to move to a relocation camp.
Sarat is our unlikely protagonist, and whether you like her character, approve of what she does or does not do, the author does a fantastic job enlightening the reader in just how she was formed, how she felt and why she acted as she did.
So at the very least this book can serve as a warning and in some instances absolute reality.ARC from Knopf publishing.
I feel like that word, dystopia, has developed something of a negative connotation in literature recently because of the inundation of books, especially YA ones, that fit into the sub-genre.
While the catalyst for entering war, the banning of fossil fuels this time instead of slavery, isn't necessarily convincing for me, the actual events of the war seem plausible.
EDIT 9/1 Upon rumination, I feel there's a lot missing from the explanation and the events of the war, and with the future society in general.
It seems that the only real issue is the fossil fuels, which doesn't seem like enough of a catalyst to cause and continue a war for so long.
Sarat, in contending with the strife (of dodging snipers, "Birds"--drone bombers--and the South Carolina-centered plague), emerges as an enigmatic badass heroine, a 6'5" seething anger vessel hell-bent on retribution for the Blues' ripping apart her family.There's probably going to be a contingent of readers who hate this novel for El Akkad's pretty obvious (to me) anti-right stance, and others might pooh-pooh the melodrama, but the "What If" scenario he's dreamed up, for its plausibility alone, makes this a frighteningly fascinating wake-up call.
To paint this setting he borrows heavily from the American Civil War of 1862-1865 and he replicates and augments the Old South's long-abiding sense of injustice - the Lost Cause and lost way of life, loyalty to family and one's people before all else, "real" Southern values, etc.
Now, one could say that the cause doesn't matter because El Akkad really wanted to explore the effects of civil war or why people continue to fight when the cause is lost.
It's a metaphor, whereby the experience suffered by other nations, notably Iraq, transposes itself onto American soil.I'm not sure that worked out well.A little background: American War takes place in the 21st century's final quarter, after climate change has trashed North American coastal cities and devoured nearly all of Florida.
There's little mention made of religion's role in organizing people for defense or offense, which misses crucial elements of both the south and Iraq.Along these lines the second Civil War's casus belli makes sense for the metaphor, but not American culture.
Yes, this connects to the role of oil in the American war in Iraq, metaphorically, but doesn't make for a plausible novel.

This is a novel that hearkens back to the great days of serious and very dark future history, the kind that used be common in SF before it got taken over with fluffy (if dark) YA that is usually a lot more simple and caricature than serious.So now we're back to the good and serious SF, no light tones here, and we fast forward to a history of America where its dominance in the world has sunk with a lot of its land, where ecological changes have turned the deserts into blasted lands, where politics has been turned upside-everywhere else thanks to the tail-end of the oil-energy crisis, and where plagues and war has ravaged America's soil.
Fear: perhaps the only emotion hardwired into the human condition, the underlying evolutionary mechanism that keeps us alive and perpetuates our species, that bids us to fight or flee.American War is a powerful, devastating portrait of the world, some decades from now.
But, if this summary sounds intriguing to you in any way, if you're the kind of person who likes to face your/the world's demons head on and shriek at them in their face, I highly recommend American War.
Omar El Akkad's AMERICAN WAR is an often-chilling and devastatingly visceral peek into our country's future should we not find a peaceful way to resolve our political differences.
Of particular interest in this novel for me was the defined sense of realism, despite being submerged in *obvious* dystopia; the new American Civil War feels incredibly real, the dejected southerners trained to become self-sacrificing martyrs are believable, and Akkad brings the horrors and desperations of an America fighting through its death rattle to life in many uncomfortable, but truly important ways.There could not have been a better time for AMERICAN WAR to hit the shelves.
AMERICAN WAR is destined to become an American classic, provided we have a future America left to hail it in...
We follow along with Sarat Chestnut’s trials and watch as the war changes her in all of the terrible ways that war can.World-building is difficult in novels like these, in which the author must catch the reader up on the mind-bending events of the past fifty or so years.
I’m giving up on this book at a little more than half way through.
The premise of a dystopian world during and after a second American Civil War was interesting, and I was curious about the two maps shown before the Prologue.
Set in the future beginning in 2074, the story centers on the Chestnut family and specifically on young Sara T, known as Sarat.
The descriptions of their life and the environment in which they survived were mostly depressing, and the pace was slow in some places.
The book wasn't satisfying my curiosity about the new world order as its focus narrowed to one person, and I lost interest.
El Akkad ties in the story of our protagonist, Sarat, with his imagined vision of a second American Civil War in a way that's comprehensive and undeniably steeped with tragedy.
How can El Akkad draw so heavily on the first American Civil War for his narrative and completely ignore the question of slavery and racism?
How on earth did every country in the Middle East come together in the span of about fifty years (?!?!) to form a republic?These are just a few of the questions American War left me with.
This book was really good and really scary, and it came as a surprise to me how much I liked it.
Basically, this book takes place in America in the 2070s-2090s, and America (as well as the rest of the world) is suffering from climate changes that have inondated a lot of the land and made it unhabitable.
Living in this world is bearable, but instead of focusing their energy on creating new solutions to this new way of living, the Americans have turned crazy on each other and have started a new civil war because of power and land and fuel.
In my case, that’s exactly what happened with American War. My lack of love for this book is definitely a case of “it’s not you; it’s me,” and that is in large part due to the timing.This was a very good book objectively.
But subjectively, I couldn’t get far enough past the sadness that said plausibility invoked within me to enjoy anything about the book.
Reading a book about a second American Civil War while our nation is so divided wasn’t a good move on my part.
It’s hard enough maintaining optimism without adding such a plausible picture of a future war-torn America to the visions already plaguing my mind.
Absolutely brutal. Watch my full review: https://youtu.be/Y_HVqmangdI
The era of US global dominance has come to an end and new hegemons are rising, particularly the Bauzizi empire, which encompasses the Middle East and North Africa and has a direct interest in ensuring the fratricidal conflict in the U.S bleeds its rival for as long as possible.In a belated effort to address emissions the feds ban the use of fossil fuels, enraging the Southern states who still have access to large reservoirs of cheap gasoline.
She becomes a powerful tool for the Southern cause, and her actions drastically change both the war, and the peace that follows it.El Akkad writes well, and vibrantly evokes the heat and humidity of the South, along with a very plausible post-climate change America that is far less than it once was.
I'd wished I could give it 10 stars from the prologue alone, and it got better and better.Like I said in my updates, this book feels like more like a prophecy instead of a novel given what happened recently.
I feel like the author truly knows war, and he understands the grudges some stubborn people seem to hold all their lives.
The narrator said that his burden is understanding, so I'm glad we readers can share that burden with him.Again, I would recommend it to you if you're a US citizen, or you live in the US or just care about it.
This is why a lot of SF/Fantasy novels take volumes to tell their story.When I was about half-way done with the book Karen asked me if it was any good, and my answer was, "I don't know"?...

Gave up, folks. This doesn't mean it's a bad book. It means I just couldn't...it's a mix of YA, sci fi, dystopian, looking at the U.S. after an event that destroyed part of it. There is constant war between the North and the South. It was interesting to see what someone else thought were our nation's weak points and our strengths. There is just so much going on in real life right now that is more gripping than any fiction. I am sure readership of fiction has gone down: someone will come up with statistics on this phenomenon soon.
The setting (an ecologically exhausted world fraught with political instability) was not groundbreaking territory for a dystopian novel, but El Akkad's focus on the ugliness of war and the ambiguity of "the cause" was one of the more realistic I've read.Strengths: Whether you agree or disagree with the novel's protagonist Sarat (I kind of hope you disagree), El Akkad does a fantastic job of depicting how the events and influencers in her early life shaped her, and was surprisingly good at creating a certain degree of empathy--despite her atrocious acts.
The book goes back and forward and tells you how the story is going to end from the beginning and then it takes you forward, then backward and forward again, we never connected with the main character and her plight because the book doesn't explore the circumstances that made the world the characters live possible , and you also never get a cohesive set of events to make the time jumps in the story coherent.
All in all I think the author went for gold but earned only a copper medal, all because he worried more on the "possibility " of the scenario he put forward in our times rather than focusing on writing a good and well connected story.
But as much as we now see and fear an uncertain future, fiction demands its depiction be not so foregone; so rote a litany of cruelty, violence and misfortune is desensitizing in a way that may actually be true to life but in a book is just deadly boring.The author attempts a cross-section of the conflict much as in Max Brooks’ World War Z but, unlike that work of science-fiction, adhering to a dour realism gives Mr. El Akkad no space for imagination, delight, or surprise.
American War is to our time as On The Beach was to the late 50’s.
Camp Patience is divided into regions resembling the forgotten states of South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia and becomes the refugee camp for all the displaced families of the south.
When the husband dies trying to surge north, the rest of the family, mother and 3 children, go to Camp Patience.
In time the son ends up going off to war and the daughters tend to follow their own destiny.
Sara - better known as Sarat - meets a member of the Resistance, and falls into her own forlorn path of fighting, prison and revenge that changes not only this war, but the lives of millions beyond her time.
The story then follows her formative years and her important role in the battle between the North and the South.Chapters are broken up by excerpts from historical texts that shape the war on a larger scale.
They helped to expand the world and further detail the fundamental differences between the North & South that went beyond just the fossil fuels disagreement.
It’s then the narrator's job to sort of fill in the blanks, at least when it comes to his Aunt Sarat.Without Sarat’s story, the book would be a very one-sided account of the war.
I liked this book, set in the future after a second Civil War has torn the country apart again, but I didn't love it. Maybe I just need to let my feelings stew for a bit.
Really interesting, but has some gaps in both world building and character development.
Once I realized that this near-future dystopia could actually be read as an allegory for the recent past / present Middle East, it flowed better for me. El Akkad had a great concept here, and I am glad I read it - it is a 3.5 stars for me. I look forward to more work by this author. --Read for Book Riot's 2017 Read Harder Challenge "A debut novel"
