https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/654.Great_Short_Works
has something in common, on the one hand, with Shakespeare's plays of power and fate, and on the other, with such a corrosively perceptive study of colonialism as Conrad's Heart of Darkness.
The episode itself dates from Tolstoy's own early years in the Caucasus, when Shamil, the Moslem religious leader, was trying to unite the Caucasian tribes against the Russian annexation.from John Bailey's IntroductionThis is a tremendous collection of stories by Tolstoy.
(The Cossacks alone is 150 pages.)I read them all a few years ago and enjoyed every one of them.
The translations are by Louise and Aylmer Maude, and John Bayley's ten page Introduction is very informative.
These are short.Family Happiness (1859): A young girl falls in love with a much older man; the story follows their relationship from the start of their love, when things are always gooey-heart-shaped-eyeballs-for-each-other through their marriage, when Mashechka realizes that love and marriage isn't quite it's all cracked up to be.
Forget the curtains.If you think that's seriously the moral of the story you probably shouldn't be reading this review.
(Yeah, like I'm capable of doing that anyway.)Alyosha the Pot (1905): I can't believe I've never read this story before considering how short and sweet it is.
This book is an excellent introduction to works of Tolstoy for anyone who is interested in the author but unsure if reading his lengthy novels is a worthwhile investment or to those who have read the novels and just want to see what else there is to Tolstoy.
Having read the novels and religious/political works of Tolstoy first, this collection provided an enjoyable continuation of many of the same themes in a different format.
The editor's choice of the selected stories and quality of translation are beyond criticism.
The only thing it could benefit from is translation of foreign (mainly french) language used in the notes.
This one, is an essential book, if you want to know about Tolstoy.
There are many styles, such as: historical fiction, romance (not the stupid, typical one in which both of them live forever above a rainbow, NO), short novels, and philosophy.
In this book you get a glance of everything, and you are deeply involved with every character that takes place in each one of the 680 pages.The book includes 8 short stories, and are in chronological order, that includes a bibliography, introduction and a resume of his life.
This review is of the stories "Father Sergius", "The Devil", and "Alyosha the Pot".
Of the stories being reviewed here, "The Devil" and "Alyosha the Pot" were the better two of the three, particularly the latter in its almost Hemingway-esque brevity and subtle suggestiveness.
"Father Sergius" was a tad too moralistically sentimental for my taste: Tolstoy falls too often in the 19th century (although the story was written at the tail-end of it) trap of long-winded explanation as opposed to artistic demonstration.
As best I can, let me rate them separately below:Family Happiness -- (*) -- I didn't care for this story because Tolstoy writes it from a female perspective, and he doesn't quite carry it off.
A little comic and sad, but with good natural descriptions and a study of the Cossack culture.The Death of Ivan Ilych -- (****) -- Tolstoy's best short work with an existentialist ring.The Devil -- (**) -- A man's sexual past catches up with him with a vengeance.
This story was much better than I expected.Hadji Murad -- (***) -- Tolstoy's best, a look at the life of Chechen warlord trying to go over to the Russians in a quest for vengeance.
Referring strictly to this particular edition: I speak only a lazy variation of the English language, so when I can tell that a translation is bad something is seriously wrong. I read only "Hadji Murad" and "The Cossacks". The stories themselves were strong enough to shine through, but the wording and syntax was so awkward that I just put the book down and decided to find better translations of the rest.
He is an amazing writer. His short works are perfect introduction to his minds and to beginners alike. I definitely recommends Leo Tolstoy beginners to read his short works first before moving on to his major novels like Anna Karenina or War And Peace in order to get used to his style of writing.I enjoyed this purchase very much.
a wonderful collection of short stories by the Master.
‘There is one bright spot there at the back, at the beginning of life, and afterwards all becomes blacker and blacker and proceeds more and more rapidly--in inverse ratio to the square of the distance from death,’ [footnote 1] thought Ivan Ilych.Id. Thus the concept of “progress” is made ironic—while it clearly means movement, it is not always clear in which direction one’s progress is leading.
Hadji Murad was the most disappointing, reflecting I suppose, Tolstoy's conclusion at that stage of his life, the futility of men gaining anything noble in war.
Kreutzer Sonata is "a story told in first person on a train ride" of the (IMO) deranged husband justifying the murder of his wife for her assumed infidelity.
Master & Man and the short short of Alyosia the Pot are both stories of living a life of noble purpose, the first of the master realizing it only in the last two days of life and Alyosia living that way from the very beginning of his short humble life.
In bite-sized chunks, the nine novellas in this book are a great way to gain an appreciation of Tolstoy's style, ideas, and ability to hone in on our human strengths and frailties.
Innovative and controversial in his day, Tolstoy's themes still resonate well over a hundred years later.
Hadji Murád is a message that is as important now as it was in the late 19th century.
His characters are vivid and alive—archetypes of human kind.My only criticism of this volume is that it could stand some good copy editing, but for the price, that is a small complaint.
Count Leo Tolstoy wrote it many years ago in his novella and short story collection entitled What Men Live By and Other Tales.It begins with What Men Live By, where we find an angel named Michael, disobedient to the plan of God, has fallen to earth and relies upon the mercy of a simple peasant family.
To be honest, I didn't finish this. I had ventured into reading the classics because I was in somewhat of a rut with my reading and thought I'd give them a try. I just found this uninteresting. The stories were short and well written, but just didn't hold my interest. At the risk of sounding like a bad breakup excuse - I'm sure it was me and not the book. Leo Tolstoy is an icon in literary fiction. I give him much credit for his accomplishments, however, this was not my cup of tea.
I read The Kreutzer Sonata, a short story about a man who murders his wife. It is written with remarkable clarity and depth of insight into the man's thoughts. I thoroughly enjoyed it, despite the macabre plot.
Not a review as much as of Tolstoy more a review of the translation too dry and palid for me
Family Happiness - The Cossacks - The Death of Ivan Ilych - The Devil - The Kreutzer Sonata - Master and Man - Father Sergius - Hadji Murád - Alyosha the Pot -
I shouldn't have been so cheap in purchasing Tolstoy's great short works -- I will want to own these works for my lifetime, and I'm sure you will too, so don't skimp like I did.
However one wishes to phrase it, these heroes of Tolstoy's great short works didn't do their pivotal acts out of intellectual understanding; more importantly, they didn't do them out of habit; and most importantly, Tolstoy somehow actually isn't moralizing about all this, at all.
The deep emotional and intellectual resonance of his works stay with me long after I close the pages.Such a work is The Death of Ivan Ilych, a short story published in 1886.In it, the reader can see the roots of the moral questions that Tolstoy himself will wrestle with his whole life.
He leaves us with the image of Ivan Ilych screaming during his last days in anguish, encapsulating a hidden existential malaise that Tolstoy would struggle with his whole life.http://thelittlebirdsong.com/
The short stories in Great Short Stories each present several things to consider or ponder, and I find that Tolstoy presents his characters to be so real that often times the things I read were deeply disturbing simply for their humanity and the truthfulness behind them.
The first short story, "Family Happiness," was perhaps my favorite, and I think everyone should read it even if not the rest of the book.
I think that if one enjoys focus on expanding one's mind, that this would really be a good book to read, religious or not.
it does in some way demonstrate a progression as these are tolstoy's popularized short fiction works in chronological order beginning with 'family happiness' in 1859 and ending with 'alyosha the pot' in 1905.
the distance in time is all too obvious to notice while reading the stories through, and while some readers of this fine writer may enjoy encountering an evolution of style in prose, i found it most dissatisfying.
hadji murad's own language, tartar, is somewhat explained after the conclusion of the story, but i am almost lead to believe that was tolstoy's inclusion.
That's for the sweeping, underlying ideas: Tolstoy seems to have contempt for the French-speaking petit bourgeoise, the Russian Orthodox church, the medical profession, and, possibly, women.
In fact, getting a sense of why there was a revolution would be a good reason to read these works.The individuals in these works are unhappy, pretty much in the same way, despite what Tolstoy said in the opening of Anna Karenina.
Tolstoy seems to have the idea that they--and, presumably, by extention, we--would be a whole lot more content in life if they would just get busy and do good works.
Kreutzer Sonata (4/5)The Death of Ivan Ilych (5/5)
Recently our book club read Fathers and Sons by Turgenev which was pretty good and gave me a little more hope.
So I decided to finally pick up the short works of Tolstoy off my shelf expecting something somewhere in between Turgenev and Dostoevsky but instead was absolutely delighted to find a master at work with his own unique style.
"Cossacks", "Master and Man", and "Hadji Murad" were among some of the best novellas I have read although I enjoyed all the stories in this volume.
The imagery is absolutely on key for the stories I named and though there is often a moral touch it is never over done.
This week I attempted to read from Tolstoy and began with the first story in this book called "Family Happiness".
I couldn't really decide if I liked it or not.
It is the story of a girl--happy when young and in love, getting caught in the social traps of the world and the unhappiness that it brings, to finally decide that love doesn't have to be wild and exciting but can be love with constancy and enjoyment of the simple things in life.
It is sad to see people waste their life and time in sin, but good to get it back by repenting.
I had never read much Tolstoy before taking a course dedicated to him last quarter.
I had heard equally great and horrible things about his works, but after taking the course and reading this collection of shorts, I realized that most people read only his novels.
I greatly recommend this collection of short stories to a person who has not read Tolstoy before, and who is intimidated by the fearsome length of his novels!
It is completely possible to understand Tolstoy's philosophy and genius when only reading the shorts!
i was in the bookstore deciding between "War and Peace" and a collection of short stories. I wimped out on War and Peace in favor of what i thought would be more digestible short stories. While the stories themselves are interesting and typical Tolstoy themes, the translation is so poor i can only give this version three stars. I've had to put the book down, the language is very difficult to muddle through and unfortunately is distracting. I would very much like to revisit a better translation, hopefully the excellent translating team of Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky.
I love short stories. These were good, but not as good as I was hoping for after reading War and Peace. Tolstoy is so good at dedicating stories towards something of moral consequence and these short stories are no different. I can, however, only handle so many consecutive treatises on humanity and human nature if they aren't carefully concealed in a gripping plot. These, sad to say, really were not.
Comment:Hadji Murad, which was written towards the end of his life, is the greatest example of heroic epic since the death of Homer! Note that Tolstoy is writing this poem of heroism two decades after becoming a Christian pacifist. Indeed, this single story filled him with such unease that, in a conversation with Gorky (I believe), he referred to it as an 'indulgence'! Even the indulgences of this man will be exalted throughout the Ages!
I've been reading these stories on and off for a while now, and I finally finished the last one today. I would absolutely recommend them to anyone, and I think it's quite difficult not to appreciate (and really enjoy) Tolstoy's matter-of-fact style of writing. He was amazingly intuitive about the Chechnyan situation in Hadji Murad, and I have always enjoyed his take on kings and leaders. All of the stories are good and worth reading, but I think Master and Man was my favorite.
