https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/482977.Harold_and_Maude
Well, this book was different.Harold is a tad different than most 19 year olds. He is fascinated by death, goes to funerals for fun and loves to fake his own death. His mom decides it's time he got married so that he will shape up and start acting normally. She enters him into the dating scene and well that works out fine...Mrs. Chasen smiled. Behind her on the lawn Harold was pouring the contents of the can of kerosene all over himself. Candy looked a little nonplused. "I think I should mention
Well, this book was different.Harold is a tad different than most 19 year olds.
Candy looked a little nonplused.
"I think I should mention, Candy," said Mrs. Chasen, "that Harold does have his eccentric moments."
Then Harold meets Maude.
(I'm gonna be Maude when I grow up)They meet at a funeral..because funerals are fun.
Maude gives Harold the gift of living life..I mean she steals cars to go around and steals trees from the courthouse.
Full of life our Maude is.
I love her.Then..Harold decides Maude is it for him.The wind blew gently in her hair.
Once played by the likes of Audrey Hepburn and Goldie Hawn, these plum roles now go to Hawn's daughter, Kate Hudson, and Zooey Deschanel.The twist in Harold and Maude is that the dream-spinning pixie is played by Ruth Gordon, a nymphet nearing 80.
We're kind of left up in the air as to what will become of Harold, though we can rest assured his life has been bettered by having spent time with Maude.This was an interesting time of life for me to read this book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  "It's been my experience that it's kindness that matters, and kindness is what the world sorely lacks." Harold isn't what you'd call your average 19 year old. He spends his free time a little differently than most young men . . .  When he's not faking his own suicide, he attends funerals in order to pass the time. It's there that he meets Maude, a soon-to-be 80 year old with a real zest for life. As their friendship grows, Maude teac
"It's been my experience that it's kindness that matters, and kindness is what the world sorely lacks."
Harold isn't what you'd call your average 19 year old.
It's there that he meets Maude, a soon-to-be 80 year old with a real zest for life.
As their friendship grows, Maude teaches Harold how to leave his idealizations of death in the past in order to live life to the fullest .
"I believe that much of the world's sorrow comes from people who know they are this" - she held the daisy in her hand - "yet let themselves be treated as that."
At over 40 years old, the film proves to be timeless.
If the irrepressible Maude came speeding by in her stolen car and ran me off the road while I was biking, I'm fairly sure I would not give two shits about her heedless bliss and would want her ass locked up.That scene, like many in the book, seems calculated for cinematic slapstick easy laughs, and it was.
The sledgehammer stands in for subtlety.This is one case where, if you've seen the film you probably don't need to read the book, so vividly is it brought to life onscreen and arguably superior in that medium thanks to the inspired casting of the magnificent Ruth Gordon as Maude.
He's obsessed with death and enjoys going to funerals, factories and demolition sites and staging suicides to spite his snobby high-class mother.Maude is an elderly free spirit with a history of anarchy, protesting and a fierce love for life and nature, always optimistic and always one step ahead of the world.Definitely a timeless story of friendship, peace, understanding and acceptance and embracing life to the fullest in whatever way you want to, this book is sad and happy and memorable all at once.
Zwischen den beiden entwickelt sich eine ungewöhnliche Verbindung, die alle Tabus bricht und genau damit die Schönheit des Lebens zeigt.Die Verfilmung dieses amerikanischen Klassikers hat Kult-Status, und das kommt nicht nur durch das bizarre Pärchen von Harold und Maude an sich zustande, sondern auch, weil diese Geschichte ein wahres Kind seiner Zeit ist.
Da man schwer die Gründe dafür nennen kann ohne zu spoilern, beschränkt sich die Kritik darauf, dass es Maude herzlos erscheinen lässt und als würde sie in Harold nicht dasselbe sehen wie er in ihr.Insgesamt ist ein Buch, das alle Tabus seiner und auch der heutigen Zeit bricht, natürlich sehr kontrovers.
Offbeat.
Dark humor.
Quirky characters.
Morbid.
What's not to like?I read this as a teenager, sometime in the mid 70s.
My tastes were more vaired back then and pretty much picked up any book.
Centering on death, and ironically, life, it intrigued me.
Harold is a young rich lonely young man obsessed with death.
He stages mock suicides to shock his mother, goes to funerals for fun.
He meets Maude, an 80 yr.
old woman with a Devil-may-care attitude, at a funeral.
Maude's free-wheeling life, told throughout the story, helps in liberating Harold from his demons and teaches him to live.An enjoyable reading experience.
the movie was so much better..." Like, who says that, right?For those who dont know about this story...snapshot.Harold, psychotic, tortures his mother with his preoccupation of suicide.His mom is wealthy, in that bloated way that Ivanka Trump acts.The uncle is some sort of lunatic that, even though Harold's mom pushed him onto the uncle because of 'behavior' (Ie: my son is a raving headcase), a fair amount of synapses have failed to connect, and he's all 'Harold, but war...
And things escalate to a rather uncomfortable level, a feeling i think may have been mitigated had the author tightened up the manuscript.His mom tries to set him up with internet dates, which Harold rebuffs with more of his antics.
Colin Higgins wrote the Harold and Maude screenplay right before writing the novel adaptation so everything is for the most part matched scene for scene.
Another movie over book decision that can't be left unsaid is Cat Stevens produced the perfect soundtrack, the song Maude sings at the piano in the book is not nearly as poignant as "If you Want to Sing out".
All that being said I can't really keep the book and the movie separate in my mind for the most part.I was lucky enough to find a great paperback of the novel which I scanned and added for the edition that I'm reviewing but as much as I like this book and all my others..."It's all memorabilia, but incidental and not integral, if you know what I mean."
I first experienced the film by reading this book, although my copy came from the first printing when it was actually titled "Share the Joy." This book and the film quickly became one of the most important things in my life, and it actually turned me around a great deal.
After reading this, though, my overall perspective on the world completely changed, and I really started to think about all of the different ways that my not experiencing anything was affecting the way that I was experiencing everything.
We are all here to be happy and to spread love, share the joy, and live with compassion on this earth.
Thoroughly enjoyable and heartfelt. It is pretty much a novelization of the film script - in this case the novel was written by the screenwriter Colin Higgins. I love these characters. These two people found each other at just right moment - each fulfilling a service for the other that allowed them to move forward on life's journey. My story is not the same - and yet elements are similar. I had a couple of Maude's in my life - older and wiser and terrifically generous of spirit - they changed the direction of my life.
Maybe it also doesn't help my opinion that I've never seen the movie?
It was okay, but overall un-inspiring for me personally.I found it to be kind of similar to Love Story, in the fact that you can totally tell it was written to be a screenplay.
It was never written to just be a book and for me personally, that hurt my enjoyment of it.
Maybe if I had seen the movie, or read this as a teenager, I'd have had more tolerance for the whole "suicide-star-crossed-age-gap-lovers" thing.
"It's like a director's cut," said Noel, when he loaned me the book.
Ashby kept almost every line as Higgins wrote it, every scene as described, every motion -- EVERY MOTION!
Did these shots and scenes end up on the cutting room floor?
Some of them entirely gone (sad, sad Glaucus -- what an unexpectedly beautiful character he was!), some simply truncated into beautiful but odd and unexplained shots.
The novel gave new life to two characters I already knew so well.
Higgins should have gone back and changed them.
Cat Stevens knew how to write a song.
Higgins?
Seems silly to read this book, especially considering that much of it is a word-for-word textual version of the movie.
They developed the character of Maude so much more in the book - making her less of a manic pixie dream granny and more of a well-developed character who embraced the good parts of life because she had lived through so much of the bad.
Also portrayed a lot more of Harold's internal thoughts, feelings, and interests beyond suicide and he felt more complex and interesting because of it.Also - found out after buying that all the proceeds from this particular edition of the book go to an HIV/Aids charity, which I really appreciated.
Harold is 19, Maude is 79. What is age other than a number?
BOOKREVIEW: HAROLD AND MAUDE Do you like romantic, humorous books about friendship ?
His live is strangely empty, he doesn’t go to school and his hobbies are going to funerals, visiting junkyards and watching demolition teams knocking down houses.
At another meeting Maude wanted to see one of his hobbies, so they were watching at the demolitions teams knocking down old, empty houses!
I’m not going to tell the end of the story but what I can say is that Harold has learned lots of different positive things about life from Maude !I really liked this book !
:)Story:Young Harold has nothing to do in his life but go to funerals and fake his suicides.
Only this is not the life Harold wants to live.Characters:When I started the book and Harold was introduced I knew from the second: I am going to love this book.
She doesn't take things to serious and acts always with a smile on her face.Writing:The book is a small one, more a novella or short story.
I would have loved to read more about the characters so it's a pity the story is just that short.
The characters, the story and the writing were entertaining and pleasant.
Thus is born a friendship evolve into something bigger.The designs of the old woman on life and things, they meet at the back of the church .
It is a philosophy of life that is presented here , an example and a mentor to listen respectfully .Each shared moment is a special moment , funny, authentic and engaging, sometimes even poetic .There is in this book of magic, one that still exists in our time if we look at the existence of a closer , with eyes open to the world and without a priori.This is the story of a comet named Maude change a young man 's life and teach him a little time the true meaning of life."I should like to change into a sunflower most of all.
I saw the movie many times.
Just finished reading the novel that became the movie.
Harold and Maude is about the friendship between Harold who is about 20 and Maude who is about to turn 80.
Maude is a eccentric old lady, who likes to attend funerals, steals people's cars when she needs to drive and has a unique outlook on life.
Both Harold and Maude like to attend funerals of people they do not know.
Harold does not have friends so Maude is his first.
I like books and movies about "unlikely friendships" and this is a great one.
I was first introduced to the story when I saw the Broadway play in early 1980.
It starred film Legend Janet Gaynor as Maude and the gorgeous Keith McDermott as Harold.
I knew nothing about it and so laughed my sides off for 2 hours.
Then I found this book and laughed till I almost wet myself!!!!!
I love it and have read it over and over many times.
I've sent copies to friends over the years and got the film for myself and my nephew, who couldn't stop laughing either, he enjoyed it so much!This book is a light, easy read and I highly recommend it!
Harold and Maude is my most favorite movie so when I found it as a written play, I had to read it. The screenplay was actually written before the play and both were written by Colin Higgins, and as a result, I don't really find either better than the other. They have basically the same plot with slight difference and both were extremely hilarious, sad, and clever. I laughed aloud and I had tears streaming down my face during my reading and I felt very satisfied afterward. I definitely recommend it.
Harold and Maude is one of my favorite films. I was delighted to see this film as a play and read the Samuel French play-in-two-acts version. Higgins wrote the play in French, after the film, then released an English version of the play in 1983. The cast includes parts for about 15 actors. Maude is still a glorious free spirit, Harold an odd and lost young adult. This film translates nicely into a charming and sweet black comedy/existentialist drama.
To correct a few of the comments here: The book is a novelization of the film. The book was written during and after the film was made (Higgins was "on set" much during much of the film production). The original script for the film is quite different from both the film and the book. (Although the book retains dialogue from the original script that was not used in the film.)
Just read that many think this was a better movie - but when I was a youngster I adored this book - the ultimate romance with plenty of laughs. When I was old enough to see the movie, I didn't hate it(and I loved the actor choices) but it could never match up to the book.
Travis Hill turned me on to this movie in high school. I watch it once in a while to enjoy the soundtrack (all Cat Stevens) and to remember to enjoy simple pleasures; like eating carrots while watching trash get repositioned at dumps.
It's Harold and Maude. What do you think?
What a delightful little book!
En favoritfilm, så tänkte att det skulle vara roligt att ha originaltexten inom räckhåll. Läste någon gång att Harold & Maude var Higgins masteruppsats på filmskola. Efter bearbetning blev den ju så enormt älskad som film och fick kultstatus, även om den kanske inte faller alla i smaken p.g.a. svart humor. Men det är så härligt hur den unge Harold lär sig att älska livet - till tonerna av Cat Stevens i filmens soundtrack.
Quirky. I remember loving the book and the movie - this was before I learned how to drive!
4,5 çok hoştu bana papatyaları hatırlattı okurken neden bilmiyorum ama sanki papatyaların arasında oturuyomuşum gibi hissettirdi.
