https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/508211.Meet_Kirsten
I read this book aloud to my daughters.This is the first book in the American Girls Kirsten Series.
This is also our first book in any American Girl series and our first book by this author.We love reading books that take place during the 1800s time period.
In this book, Kirsten's family immigrates from Sweden to America in 1854.
The series continues with five more books.We really enjoyed the book!
When I told my daughters that there is an American Girl website and that there is an historical Kirsten doll, they were so excited!
We are hooked on the American Girl historical books and dolls.
For being targeted at girls b/w the ages of like 6-11, this book was surpsingly profound.
I mean, (not to spoil anything for you, but...), her best friend dies of scarlet fever as they are on their way immigrating over from Sweden to America to make a better life for themselves.
(A dingy long cabin in Minnesota if I recall...) And besides the sob factors, it also delves into a fair amount of cultural exposure.
That's pretty heavy reading material for a kid...
This is probably one of the most emotionally impactful books I can remember reading; especially as a child, but even now.
Good. I'd recommend a little older than 6/7. My girls didn't want to continue after the death.
Okay so I kind of feel like reading these American Girl Books are cheating because I can read them like super fast but my sister just got the Kirsten doll so I decided to start reading her books to know if I want to slowly buy her from her.
This lady was very nice and I just think it was really cute on how they communicated through pictures than the lady brought Kirsten back to her family.
Then when they got off the boat, Kirsten couldn't even look at it, like she missed her friend!
This review is also posted on my blog. (view spoiler)[I’ll pretense this by saying, this is a children’s book! It is not going to be the same length or difficulty level as a standard adult novel, but in no way will this impact the complexity or quality, so if you go into reading children’s books with this in mind, then you’ll find them much easier to enjoy.Now. With that said. I remember reading and LOVING the American Girl books when I was a kid, and I recently had the idea to re-read and re-e
(view spoiler)[I’ll pretense this by saying, this is a children’s book!
I remember reading and LOVING the American Girl books when I was a kid, and I recently had the idea to re-read and re-experience them so I would have better reasons to continue recommending them, so here I am, starting with the oldest series.And it was just as good as I remember it being.
I am absolutely glad that American Girls are still as popular today as they were 15-20 years ago, and I can only hope that the other girls’ books and the other books in this series are just as well done!
I just finished rereading a bunch of my old childhood books.
I have this thing about rereading books that I haven't read since I was 10 or younger...
However, rereading these books can also be really really disappointing because, as an adult, I realize how totally horrible the writing in the series is.
Your books make her seem like a snoozeville character when in reality, being a Swedish immigrant with rad circular braids is super cool and exciting.
My adult self gives this series two stars, but my inner child totally bumped it up to three starts.
Kirsten has been sailing to Minnesota for a long time. When she finally gets to American to live with her cousins, she finds out that school is really hard. She also finds that English is a lot harder than Swedish. On top of that, Kirsten and her family are still homesick. Can Kirsten and her family be happy in America?
I read this to see if it would be a good fit for our homeschool elementary history co-op class.
I read some of the reviews before reading the book and was worried about the friend dying being too heavy a concept to teach but I think it was handled well, was definitely a reality for pioneers, and can bring up some good discussion.
I'll just be sure to not end that class on a sad note or dwell on it too much.
I look forward to reading more Kirsten books!
Re-read with Killian this spring break! <3
These damn American Girl novels making feel all the feels. It could be the nostalgia talking but I absolutely loved this. I love what an age-appropriate history lesson these books teach without sugar coating it too much. This one really gives you a sense if just how scary it would be to journey across the ocean to an unfamiliar land, all in hope of making a better life. I cried a few little happy tears when they finally reached the Uncle's farm.
Literally read it in less than 20 minutes at the bookstore today -- I still love the American Girl books and think they have a lot of value for young girls.
I should have read the other two that were in the box set I found this in, because I was never really well-acquainted with Kirsten's story and I'm curious to know more, especially since she's been discontinued in the lineup.
(For several years now, but still.)That said, I do think I like Samantha's stories a little better...
though those have the nostalgia factor as well, because Samantha was my fave growing up.
Meet Kirsten tells the story of a nine year Swedish girl making the long journey from Sweden to Minnesota in America with her family in 1854.
This first installment of the Kirsten set of American Girl books is a great introduction to this telling of the life of pioneers in the 1800's.
All the American Girl books including this one, do a fantastic job of presenting historical events, including the hard parts of them, to children while maintaining a friendly tone.
The American Girl books present these events in a light fashion while still maintaining the historical accuracy and integrity that helps the story retain an educational value.
I was an introverted, shy, passive kid that thrived on doing what I was told.
Ellie is crazy, active, kinetic (always needing to move and sing and dance), creative, expressive, moody child that doesn't even like being told that she has to spell things the 'right' way instead of 'her' way.
Anyways, we loved meeting Kirsten.
I was a little nervous about Ellie handling Kirsten's friend dying - but my child's a little weird and wasn't crushed but rather fascinated and had a million questions.
I liked this book better than the Felicity one, tbh.
This is a children's book, targeted at the upper grades of elementary school.
(grades 3-6)Kirsten's family is traveling from Sweden for hopes of a better life in America, where there is already some family in Minnesota to help them get settled.
There is still some sadness in here, with a death, but then, as I said, this book felt more real to me than Felicity.
Overall a good book for young girls to give them a taste of what life was like back then, presented in an age-appropriate way.
Meet Kirsten begins when Kirsten and her family travel from Sweden to America by ship. A lot of things happen to her along the way, and she must stay brave for her family. This book was not as good as some of the other American girl series, but I liked it. I was saddened by some things that happened in it, but I could never really connect with Kirsten. Other than that I did like this one, and I look forward to reading more about her in other books.
And so after not liking Josefina, we tried this one. Talk about depressing!!! Her friend dies, horribly, of cholera. Maybe there are 8 year old girls that like to read about things like this, but mine is not one of them. What a way to sell dolls! Yikes. Stopped after the cholera chapter.
I just read this for my Reading challange, LOL
I really liked this book reading about Kirsten’s scary and dangerous adventure crossing the seas exploring New York and experiencing good and bad things she never expected to experience.
Kirsten and her family have been traveling for three months from Sweden to America to land in New York ready to travel to Chicago and then onto Minnesota.
When they get to New York Kirsten gets lost and has to find her own way back to her family even though she cannot yet speak English.
Once in Minnesota they have a long walk until they reach their home and their family.
I wasn't sure if I ever finished this book when I was collecting American Girl dolls so I read it now and it was a pretty decent book.
I mean, yes, the books I actually read are better but for being less than 60 pages, it had a pretty good storyline.
I plan to finish this series and then continue with the books I normally read afterwards.
I would recommend this book to elementary school children even if it is a little sad since her friend Marta died.
Overall, this book got 4 stars and it was a pretty good read.
Kirsten's story was one of my favorites when I was younger, but unfortunately, this first book just didn't stand up to time for me! I love her story once she reaches the west, but before that, it all just seems so rushed? There's so much that could have been done with their initial arrival to the states.I'm definitely going to keep rereading Kirsten's series though! Her stories remind me of so many of the stories my grandmother tells me of her own childhood.
I haven't ever read a whole American Girl series so I decided to pick this one up because I love reading about the 1800s pioneer era in the United States. This was a good introduction to the series starting with the time on board the ship while traveling to America and then a snapshot of the city where they landed and their travel across the country to Minnesota. There were some heartaches and challenges along the way and I'm looking forward to seeing how the story develops.
My four year old daughter seemed to enjoy listening to me read this story. I still don't think she comprehended everything in the book, but the questions I did ask her she knew the answers to. Some big talking points for a four year old (time period, money, death), but also a good time for conversations. She wanted to read this because of has the doll, but I don't think she would have been interested in the book otherwise.
Yeah, another book to not skirt around the issues of the time. Her best friend from the long journey from Sweden dies of cholera and she has to see her casket removed from their riverboat and buried. I had forgotten this detail from reading it as a child, but Kirsten shows resilience and makes it to the farm in Minnesota.
I dearly love this Book...it is so wonderfully well written and I love reading stories that goes back in the Pioneer Days. I love seeing the pictures in this book. I will be reading the rest of the books in the Series called Kirsten Series. I give this book 5/5 Stars...Happy Reading :)
In the summer of 1854, after a long and dangerous journey on a small ship, Kirsten Larson and her family arrive in America. The culture is different and the new language is hard for Kirsten and her family she can't speak English. But she and her family is happy that she is her new home.
As a little girl. I was opposed with American Girl. I still really enjoy the stories. American Girl really got me into reading. I started American Girl when I was 9. I loved them ever since.
Kirsten is a brave girl. I cannot imagine going through the hardships she and the people around her experience.
First book I remember reading on my own that made me cry.
I love Kirsten's story; she goes through a lot throughout the series, but she always tries to keep a good and cheerful heart.
I love the american girl books :)
