https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109993.My_Mother_is_the_Most_Beautiful_Woman_in_the_World
It is a wonderful thought taken one way and I can also see it as a way of saying, you're ugly, but because you are loved you're beautiful.
I see it as positive and when the man said this about the mother in the book, it came across to me as a modern reader and him basically calling the woman ugly.It's about a girl in Ukraine whose family is harvesting the wheat crop.
She gets separated from her parents and the only thing she can tell people is my mother is the most beautiful woman in the world.It is about seeing someone at a deeper level, who they are.
I got a little teary-eyed at the end of this book when Varya is reunited with her mother. "We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to us because we love them." "Some people, Varyachka, see with their eyes alone. Others see with their hearts, too. I am grateful and lucky that you see with your heart, as well as with your eyes."
This is a very sweet story, about a little girl who gets lost, and tells those who find her that her mother is the most beautiful woman in the world. The illustrations capture both the harvest season and Ukrainian folk art very well. It is poignant to me, too, to see that it was published in 1945, as the Ukraine was certainly suffering from World War II and Stalin's grasp at the time of publication. This bright book was surely an antidote.
They keep asking her if these super beautiful women are her mom, but she keeps saying no.Finally, her mother shows up, looking for her daughter, and her mom's this pudgy woman with squinty eyes, and they're like, "That's your--?
Okay, well, you're weird." And the proverb is, "We don't love people because they're beautiful; people are beautiful because we love them." That's a really sweet message, but to get there they had to jump through so many hoops and pad the book with so many unrelated things like baking cakes and dances and accordion music.
Were they upset by the book asking them to do that, or did they just seriously did not believe their mother was the most beautiful woman in the world?
It had fabulous brightly-colored endpages in yellow with butterflies, roosters, peacocks, roses, cherries, and architecture, in a charming folk art style.
The story itself was based off a Russian folktale and proverb, which was as follows: "We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to us because we love them." The book is about Varya, a small Ukranian girl who works in a wheat field with her parents and five brothers and sisters.
On the second harvest day, Varya falls asleep and wakes up to find her parents gone.
This book published in 1945 is based on a story the author heard from her mother about a time long before (during the reign of the czars); not surprisingly, the lifeways and values reflect some of both of these eras and may now seem overly quaint or archaic.
Others see with their hearts, too.
I am grateful and lucky that you se with your heart, as well as with your eyes.The illustrations, whether black and white or in color have a unique quality, expressing grounded reality and the earthy simplicity of a farming community.
While not every picture was my favorite, the sentiments of the story won me over.
The harvest of the wheat shows us how different things are today, and how much you really had to depend on the community back in those days (something I think we've lost with modernization which is a real shame).
The community comes together when the child is lost as well, and also to celebrate when the harvest is over.
So many valuable lessons in this book outside of the obvious.I enjoyed this book and especially liked the invitation to put a picture of my own mother at the back of the book.
We all know that "beauty is in the eye of the beholder," but I was kind of put off by the way that this message was presented here: "See?
So if you're lost, think of another descriptor for your mom, because chances are just as good that she's beautiful to you because she's your much-loved mom - but anyone else can see that she's actually fat, dumpy, & so homely that she's lucky to be married!" The illustrations have a charm in their colors & traditional Urkainian designs, but I frankly found even the people who were supposed to be beautiful creepy-looking, let alone those who were supposed to be objectively less than beautiful.
Russian folktale about a young girl who gets separated from her mother.
When she is found by strangers all she tells them is that her mother "is the most beautiful woman in the world." The strangers bring all the beautiful women from nearby villages and none are her mother.
When she is finally reunited we find out that physically, her mother is homely, not beautiful.
However, to her daughter she truly is the most beautiful woman in the world.
• 1946 Caldecott Honor Book •A sweet book based off a Russian folk tale around the Russian proverb: “We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to us because we love them!” I like the illustrations but the faces were a little creepy - especially little Varya who is 6 but looks 60.
The endpapers are really cool with a yellow background and images of peacocks, roosters, stars, cherries, roses, butterflies and onion dome churches.
And those elements are worked in throughout the book - the cabinets have roosters on them, a dress has roses, etc.
I like the use of pointillism too.
Undoubtedly, this book was neat in that it introduced my to an old russian folktal. Yet, there were parts of the book I didn't care for and other I did. It contained some really interesting scenes of post-harvest celebrations and the various foods that the Russians enjoyed eating. I had never heard of any of them before! On the negative side, the book was very stereotypical of the submissive women housewife. Also, the pictures in the book seemed to randomly switch between color and black and white. This distracted from the story.
Now that I'm reflecting on this story, I'm thinking of filial piety, but when I read it at the time, I had been considering how much I liked the Russian/Ukrainian foods depicted therein.
...and now that I'm trying to consider more about what I want to say about my lovely mother on this immediate Friday to the Mother's Day weekend, I'm concluding I really am too hungry to explain myself as eloquently as standard.So this book explains my feelings.
One may conclude I feel like a small child.
That is fine, I'm off to consume epic proportions of bliny!
I thought this was one of the most wonderful stories I have ever read, and I loved the same quote as Laura5, "We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to use because we love them." The illustrations are vibrant and colorful, and you can see the love between the mother and daughter shining in their faces. My favorite part of the book was the end, where they provide a frame so the book owner can place a picture of their beautiful mother in the book. I thought that was a wonderful touch.
A little girl in Russia helps her mother and father in the wheat fields but one hot afternoon sits down for a little rest, which turns into a long nap, and she can't find her mother. The townspeople she finds ask her what her mother looks like to which she cries, "My mother is the most beautiful woman in the world!" Fantastic read, great for beginning readers. My favorite line from the book, "We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to us because we love them." Beginning Reader.
A sweet story from Russia illustrating the Russian proverb, "We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to us because we love them!"This has a fair amount of text, so it's probably a good read aloud for 1st grade and up. I think it would also make an interesting companion read to a book like Little House on the Prairie because of the descriptions of harvest time (they are similar).
When a little girl becomes lost in the fields during harvest season she tells the strangers who find her one thing: that her mother is the most beautiful woman in the world. The strangers round up the most beautiful women far and near and at long last the girl is reunited with her mother, a plain-jane sort of woman who is most beautiful because she is loved. There is a page at the end for the reader to put a picture of their own mother, the most beautful woman in the world. Artwork is full color and black and white.
This is a Russian folktale about a little girl who gets lost.
She tells the villagers who help her that her mother is the most beautiful woman in the world and they gather all the beautiful women around.
However, it turns out her mother is a plain woman.
I liked the sentiment of the story and the Russian proverb it uses as the moral of the story, "We do not love people because they are beautiful, but they seem beautiful to us because we love them." It is a good thing to teach children.
I also liked the illustrations.
I didn’t think the illustrations in this one were all that wonderful, but the message - that people are beautiful to us when we love them - is nice. The empty picture frame at the back of the book for kids to put their own mothers’ pictures in is a bit much, but I’m sure there are families who have taken advantage of it in their personal copies. This would also be a good one to use in a story time for older kids about Russia or Mother’s Day.
A young girl from the Ukraine loses her mother and gives only one bit of information to the strangers who look for her: She's the most beautiful woman in the world. Tear-jerker alert! The illustrations almost look like old newsprint technology, tiny dots create the shapes and colors. The writing hearkens us back to the days of celebration for a harvest well earned. (1946 Caldecott Honor)
Growing up as a 'less than perfectly shaped' American girl, of Russian heritage, this book is an inspiration. Beauty comes from within. My mother read it to me as a child, and thinking back on the year I gave it to her for Mother's Day still brings happy tears to my eyes.
1946 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: gorgeous end papersFavorite line: "I am grateful and lucky that you see with your heart, as well as with your eyes."Kid-appeal: A nice Russian folk tale and interesting pointillist-style illustrations.
Another favorite story from my childhood. And of course my mother was the most beautiful!
Caldecott Honor 1946 - As I read this one, I changed my opinion so many times. The basic sentiment was touching but there were parts where I couldn't stop rolling my eyes.
Colorful depiction of peasant life in Russian. Nice story, didn't like the drawings all that much.Caldecott honor.
Cute story with a good message. Beautiful illustrations.
My book is Red, an old school library book.
Favorite illustration = p. 11
