https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400723.Archy_and_Mehitabel
hello everyonein case you haven t heard of memy name is archyi was a vers libre poetwho died and came back as a cockroachi used to pound out my poems on an old typewriterand someone called don marquis took them to the publishernow there are no more typewritersand don marquis is deadi heard he reincarnated as a fruit batThe rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Archy and Mehitabel door motif from the Brooklyn Public Library:

So many good ones, but a couple of my favorite poems: the lesson of the mothi was talking to a motht
Don Marquis was a newspaper man from the early 20th Century who came up with this series of free verse poems about a cockaroach who's the reincarnation of a verse libre poet. His comic and sad tales of life in the alley with Mehitabel the cat and an assorted cast of unsavory characters stands up over the years because the poetry makes you laugh and think and the personalities in the work are vivid and true.
Had I read the back of this book, I would have never read the book itself. A cockroach that writes poems on a typewriter and his cat friend---sounds insipid and revolting doesn't it? However this book is a marvelous oddity which strays far away from cutesiness. It's one of those works where the schtick doesn't take over the rest of the text. Granted, this was never MEANT to be a book in the first place--if I recall correctly this started out as something that showed up in newspapers.
Explaining who archy and mehitabel were is just too darn complex. If you enjoy comic verse, do yourself a favor and get this book. (Actually, you can get a good start at this webpage -- http://www.donmarquis.com/archy/ -- as it contains a number of Marquis' poems and a fine introduction to this book.
Charming, surprising, funny and sad. Where else will you find a mummy greet a cockroach as "scatter legged scarab." Supposedly this free verse was just filler for a columnist. Ha. It's also a big reminder of how much more we used to expect from our newspaper readers. I checked the dictionary more than once.Good social commentary.
rueful at first, and then remembering you.archy's origins from the first don marquis column that saved his job, his best introduction.***"Dobbs Ferry posseses a rat which slips out of his lair at night and runs a typewriting machine in a garage.
Unfortunately, he has always been interrupted by the watchman before he could produce a complete story.It was at first thought that the power which made the typewriter run was a ghost, instead of a rat.
It seems likely to us that it was both a ghost and a rat.
First appearing in 1927 Don Marquis and his clever free verse poem of  Archy and Mehitabel , Archy the mad typist "poet" cockroach and his kitty friend Mehitabel who was Cleopatra in her past life entertain the reader and remain a classic in American literature. So happy this was made available in digital format, always readily available to make me smile and chuckle endlessly. Archy "the lesson of the mothi was talking to a moththe other eveninghe was trying to break intoan electric light bulban

There is nothing I can say that the website (www.donmarquis.com/archy/) doesn't say better and more completely. Suffice to say that Archie was a vers libre poet in a previous existence and has been reincarnated as a cockroach; Mehitabel is an alley cat with the morals of, well, an alley cat, who is convinced she was once Cleopatra and their adventures are as funny and fresh as they were when first published over 80 years ago in the USA. It is gentle fun but with some sharp insights into the human condition.
my best girlfriend and i loved this when we were in high school. archy is a cockroach who types by hopping from key to key on the typewriter, so he can't capitalize anything, and there are some punctuation marks he can't use. mehitabel is his feline friend. very clever and amusing.
I found it helpful to know that it is social commentary (and newspaper space-filler) on daily life in the city during the 1910s and 1920s from a cockroach and a cat.
Thanks, Geoff Wyss, for putting the name of this one in front of me. It reads like Marianne Moore writing bathroom graffiti, and it's terrific.
Some wonderful poems, and a few truly brilliant ones, in a really endearing premise.
this is part of my list of all time favorites.
I nver leave home without a copy.
A vers libre poet transmigrates into the body of a cockaroach and becomes the eyes and voice of the "people" through the perspective of a maligned insect.
Mehitabel being the predominant of his inter-speciel communicants.
She is an alley cat.
Not just any common alley cat, no.
Archy narrates her adventuresome life and is a social commentator of exemplary skill.
The lives and times of archy and mehitabel is a must.
Pick up a copy in any of the wonderful incarnations.
The main character is Archy, a cockroach who communicates by jumping on typewriter keys.
He writes stories about his life as a cockroach and his former life as a writer.
Illegal drinking and drug use are all over this book as well as some very insightful questions of the roles we play in society.My favorite thing about this book is debating with other people who have read it who the character Archy was in his former life.
He was a writer and the general time frame of his other life is often mentioned in the stories.
I read about this book somewhere, and now wish I could remember where it was as it was such a remarkable little read.
"We get bored with the routine / and crave beauty / and excitement / fire is beautiful / and we know that if we get / too close it will kill us / but what dos that matter / it is better to be happy / for a moment / and be burned up with beauty / than to live a long time / and be bored all the while."Lessons in life, new ways of looking at the world, a little gem.
I'm putting this is my "read" section, though I have not finished reading it, only because it no longer belongs in my "currently reading" section, as I am not reading it any longer. I do not like it enough to finish it. I was trying to persevere and see the humour and genius, but I only found it annoying and boring. I do not care to read the word "wotthehell" again, especially not in the context of free verse poetry that is often made to rhyme. I guess the philosophical musings of a flea are not for me.
The back cover copy claims this is a book of poetry and that it is art. It is neither, but the conceit of a cockroach who writes about a snooty cat is fun. Though the stories are uneven, some are wonderful fun. A very few actually are poems, while the rest are just typed on the page like poetry. George Herriman's illustrations are wonderful, and the reason to get this edition or another that has them. There are extensive Shakespeare references on pages 75,92-3, 110, 115-9, 120-1, 125-7, 140, 159, and 176. A Ben Jonson reference is on page 174.
i don't know, this just might be my all time favorite book. how can you resist the chronicles of a cock-roach who types fervently and a house-cat who thinks she is cleopatra re-incarnated???
Charming without ever being twee, and just so damn beautiful.
Oh yes! so true, so bad. and amazingly poetic.
Toujours gai, kid, toujours gai.
Writing is exhausting to Archy, but it's important so he does it.Archy is polite but also blunt.thank you for the apple peelings in the wastepaper basketbut your paste is getting so stale i can t eat it...don t you ever eat any sandwiches in your officeor a piece of ham or anything but apple paringsand paste leave a piece of paper in your machineevery night you can call me archyI loved Archy trading insults with the Met's pharaoh mummy—the small and the great just having fun jibing each other, almost tenderly, humor and pathos, they are strangers but also strangely intimate, maybe because each has few other friends: kingly has beensays i what was your ambitionwhen you had anyinsignificantand journalistic insectyou must be respectfulin the presenceof a mighty desolationlittle archyforty centuries of thirstlook down upon youThe poor desiccated pharaoh mummy just wants beer, it's all he thinks of, ice-cold beer...His friend Mehitabel, the alley cat, is great too.
He laments his sullen existence, comments on the daily minutiae of the humans towering above him, and recounts his conversations with Mehitabel, a street cat who claims to be Cleopatra in a past life.The mythos is wholly unique, and Marquis commits to his canon, never once letting on that his column could be anything but the musings of a verbose roach, and you can tell he loves the small cast of characters he has created.
And to think that pieces like this were the product of a newspaper is hard to grasp in our current time, where newspapers increasingly struggle to find relevance in our technological landscape.
He also transcribes the songs and sayings of mehitabel, the cat, who is a reincarnation of Cleopatra.
Mehitabel is an alleycat with great pretensions, and she says, “To hell with anything unrefined has always been my motto.” In one chapter, archy describes the balance of power between species.
He describes how the angleworm speaks, after it is eaten by a robin, about how it has lost its individuality and become part of the bird.
The bird, meanwhile, sings its own song of well-being until it’s eaten by the cat.
archy and mehitabel restored my balance and reminded me that just because something is funny (and ostensibly written by a cockroach) doesn’t mean it can’t be profound.
Mr. Marquis began sharing Archy’s social commentary, and the adventures of his pals Mehitabel the cat, Freddy the rat, Warty Bliggens the toad, et al with the world in 1916.
A lovely little book that I squeezed in right at the end of the ‘thon.
From what I understand, this semi-poetry used to appear as columns in an American newspaper, and is purportedly written by Archy the cockroach, a former poet reborn in a more lowly form.
(He couldn’t reach the shift key).This volume is a collection of Archy’s works, about his life as a poet-turned-cockroach (and emerging lobbyist for insect rights around the world) and about the life of Mehitabel, an alley cat who was actually Cleopatra in a former life.
I flew through archy and mehitabel by Don Marquis.
Archy is a cockroach, and he types his poetry by hopping from key to key on the typewriter, so he’s can’t quite manage capital letters.
He’s also not fond of punctuation.
Mehitabel is an alley cat who believes she is the reincarnated form of Cleopatra.
Don Marquis is the brilliant soul who was a journalist for The Evening Sun and began publishing the tales of Archy and Mehitabel in 1916.
