https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/743936.Of_Wolves_and_Men
Fifteen years after first reading Of Wolves and Men, this book is still, in my opinion, the best examination of man's complicated love/hate relationship with canis lupus, and why the survival of the wolves matters to the survival of ourselves -- our inner souls, most of all.
It's a love story about wolves.
Lopez reveals an astute, realistic understanding of the wolf's basic nature as a hunter, but tempers pragmatism with an equal measure of wonder and awe at one of the last truly "wild" warm-blooded North American carnivores --- rivaled only by the grizzly bear at the top of the food chain.
I understood in the process of reading these books that it is indeed a deeply complex thing to understand wolves, or young learners, as if they were One Thing.
It seems to me that this is a sure way to miss the animal and to see, instead, only another reflection of our own ideas.”We do no really know wolves; we can only imagine them: “.
But this is a great book, to help us understand wolves, and ways of knowing, with a lot of beautiful writing.
Lopez uses a four-pronged approach to telling the story in that he considers four more or less distinct perspectives: Wolves as objects of scientific inquiry, as objects of interest to people bound up in the natural world with them, as objects of hatred for livestock raisers and, finally, as objects of man's literature, religion and mythology; from Aristotle and Aseop up to modern times.
Remote from universal nature, and living by complicated artifice, man in civilization surveys the creature through the glass of his knowledge and sees thereby a feather magnified and the whole image in distortion.
Of Wolves and Men.”New York: Scribner, 1978With shocking and detailed descriptions of a species of animal for which the book is named, Lopez’s novel immediately tosses the reader into a world made only for wolves and their prey.
Ranging from scientific explanations of wolves’ adaptability to their love and protection of their pack members, this work goes into deep analysis of the wolf and everything that the proud and impressive animal is capable of.The incredibly personal and descriptive diction immediately sucks you in to what Lopez has to say about the wolf.
And miles distant is a raven perched on the ribs of a caribou the wolf helped kill then days ago, pecking like a chicken at the decaying scraps of meat.
The den in which he was born one April evening was home to porcupines last winter." "I called this exchange in which the animals appear to lock eyes and make a decision the conversation of death.
The wolf has initiated a sacred ritual and met with ignorance.""We are dealing with a different kind of death from the one men know.
What a fantastic book.I've long been in love with wolves, the idea of them and the truth behind them.
Of Wolves and Men by Barry Lopez examines both our conceptions of wolves and the truth of how little we know of the creature.
Myths are examined, legislation, and ethology.
This book neatly encompasses the bulk of what we know about wolves, what we think we know about them, and perhaps why we want to know more.
It's one of the best books on the topic I've ever come across.
3.5 starsVery interesting in most parts. A lot of detail. Lopez covers all aspects of wolves and of their relationship to people. There was a large section about killing wolves. Yes, it was relevant, but I found it hard to read because I found it distasteful. There's a very nice section near the end about wolves in tales and fables.
The Naskapi believed that they were being spiritually destroyed as a people by being forced to eat the meat of mutant animals.Hunting societies generally did not hunt wolves for food.
Problem humans rapidly expanded in numbers, destroyed the ancient forests, and exterminated the animals that the wolves depended on.
It would be insane to kill off their sacred relatives in order to maximize meat production.But problem humans resented anything that lived on their land for free, and long ago they began the War on Wolves.
The game was: (1) shoot a few buffalo, (2) lace their meat with poison, (3) return the next morning and skin 20 or 30 dead wolves.The strychnine hunters went crazy.
I find wolves fascinating, so I am glad I read this nonfiction classic from the late 70s. This would make a perfect companion piece to American Wolf. My only quibble, was the wolf folklore section. It went on far to long, otherwise I recommend it to any nature lovers.
Late one night, my brother, a friend, and myself, accompanied by my red heeler dog, ventured up into the caldera for some star-gazing and camping.
The book is organized like a sonata, and goes through some expository sections about the wolf and our relationship to him -- hitting on the science, on the mythology, on the history -- and ends with a powerful climax that is literally the explosion of the supernova in the wolf-star Lupus.
In doing so, Lopez succeeds in painting a portrait of the wolf and man that stretches across the reaches of space from the mundane to the cosmic.
If I could only have three wolf books with me on a desert island, this would absolutely be one of them.
Of Wolves and Men offers wonderful insights into the biology and behavior of wolves.
What amazes me is that this book was written in 1978 and, although some of the science on behavior and biology has changed, the political issues Lopez explores are still completely relevant.
Like all of Barry Lopez's work, it's beautifully written and meticulously researched.
Lopez does a remarkable job of pulling together an amazing amount of wolf lore and wolf history into a readable and revelatory book.
It can't be emphasized too strongly that the wolf simply goes about his business; and men select only those (few) things the wolf does that interest them to pay attention to. We do not know very much at all about animals. We cannot understand them except in terms of our own needs and experiences. We seem eager to be corrected, to know how wrong our ideas about wolves have been, how complex the creature really is, how ultimately unfathomable.
BUT I think the overriding point of the books is an observation on how humans try and fail to find their place in the world.
PG 140Ultimately I think this book is a plea to humanity to accept that wolves (and other critters I assume), that while they could be a personal threat do have a place in the world, and if we make room for them our existence is immeasurably improved.
With the wolf as a fixed point of reference, Lopez is able to compare and contrast the symbology and sentiment humans have historically mapped onto nature – the contrast between European and Native American cultures of course stand in stark contrast, while the contemporary viewpoint is in some ways even more distinct from its historical roots.
In each part, Lopez explores both stories and their roots and counterparts in economics, social movements, and actual ecology.
Compared to Native Americans, European stories show a conspicuous absence of actual wolves, a reflection of ecology but more so of modes of production and religious politics.
That book will always remain one of my favorites.
In Of Wolves and Men, Lopez explores the subject of wolves from many viewpoints.
He looks at the wolf in the wild: how it operates, what it is really like, how some other human cultures have come to embrace it.
He also looks at the sad history of man's war on wolves, a war not deserved by this incredible creature.
Lopez explores the mythology and the history of writing about wolves, how they have been portrayed over the centuries.
Lopez is not only a fine nature writer; he is a fine writer period.
A fascinating study of men's reactions to wolves.
There's still some wolf-y information, but for someone who has studied wolves for a lifetime, it's nothing new.
Still, I enjoyed reading about the different legends about wolves from different cultures.
The chapters on wolf hunting and the eradication of wolves was hard to read.
My favorite part of this book was the last chapter, where Lopez talks about his two wolf-hybrids, Prairie and River.
I would like to read an entire book devoted to Prairie and River.
A good read for anyone who is interested in learning about wolves and human's reactions to them.
extremely interesting, the ideas that are touched upon are incredible.
the pictures of wolves i find awesome, and i have been drawing some out of the the book.the similarities between Inuit hunting techniques and wolf hunting techniques is close.so fair i really like the book.
but the author does not judge the hunter or support them he is very logical and gives reason why the wolves were hunted.
sad but it was an interesting thing to read.
i personalty liked when the hunters would feel regretall in all i loved the book and took away a lot from it.
Lopez makes a point in the beginning that not much is known about wolvse (especially at the time that this book was written) so if you're looking for an informative source on wolves for a project, perhaps this isn't it. But he does show off some flair in his writing, and I think some of the meanings that Native Americans have put behind wolves are interesting.
In a world where wolves are misunderstood and persecuted, this should be required reading.very hard to read at times but if you love wolves as I do, you have a duty to read it.
Allo spuntar del giornoio vagopronto a lacerare il mondoio vago Saggio abbastanza approfondito sulla vita dei lupi, che l'autore suddivide in quattro parti:Canis Lupus Linnaeus: parte introduttiva in cui si cerca di capire il lupo in un contesto sociale ed etologico, preceduto da uno sguardo alla suddivisione delle diverse razze.Nuvole all'orizzonte: qui analizziamo l'inserimento del lupo nei miti dei nativi americani, la sua origine e il suo significato simbolico.La bestia dell'abbandono e del

Nearly forty years later, my only wish is that Lopez had continued updating this book, one of his first clear looks into the order of the natural world and how we as humans insist on disrupting it.In the case of wolves?
He is kind and he is gentle and yet he does not mince the truths of how men have so frequently impeded and attempted to eradicate wolves.This is a sad story, no less sad forty years later (for how few lessons have we actually learned!), but stunningly beautiful nonetheless, and perhaps my favorite Lopez.
I read Of Wolves and Men about a year before reading Lopez's Arctic Dreams. I'm not sure which one he wrote first. They are both excellent reads, both a wondrous blend of ecology, environmentalism, philosophy, sociology, psychology and frustration. As I wrote in my review of Arctic Dreams, Lopez is a gifted narrator with a strong voice. Excellent and suggested reading.
Un libro meraviglioso, Lopez riesce a condurre il lettore nella visione del Lupo con molti occhi: chi lo odia e chi lo venera; chi lo difende e chi lo vorrebbe estinto.Una lettura talvolta dura per chi, come me, ama il lupo ma che dona una nuova coscienza. Penso che ogni amante della natura è dei lupi dovrebbe leggere le parole scorrevoli di Lopez, ma anche chi il lupo lo vorrebbe estinto.
Good book. It's just that after a couple of hundred pages, I realized I now knew all that I wanted to know about wolves.
A very interesting and honest account of wolves. The author does a good job of bringing facts to the readers while he eliminates myths about wolves. Such a magistic animal.
Lots of interesting information, but the writing is a bit uneven.
Love itThe book have a well rounded perspective on the wolf and it's environment. I laughed and cried at the cruelty shown through out time towards the wolf.
Very interesting reading... makes you think about the folklore we've told and believed about wolves over a very long time, and how that has impacted human treatment of wolves over the years.
Next he reflects on the ongoing history of blood and cruelty made by humans against the wolves, how humans try to take revenge against the ones that hurt their livestock, how we hunt them for sport or fun, and how the killings of the native americans paralleled that of the wolves.
He covers the social structure of wolves and how they keep themselves within their territories and treat their young with more compassion and understanding than other naturalists.Lopez doesn’t accept the typical cruel and misunderstanding portrayal that people create about the wolf.
(Remember it's a human asking the question.) It starts out with the scientific approach for studying wolves and their behavior, like radio collars, and what has been learned, then moves on to views of the Native American and Inuit people who have lived with wolves in competition for the same food and for survival in an often hostile natural environment.
The author looks in to the reasons behind the hatred of the wolf and often arrives at the answer that it is derived from man's frustration at not knowing his place in the universe and having a scapegoat to ease the burn.The last third of the book goes into human views of the wolf in the ancient world throughout time until the Renaissance and then today in Europe and Russia.
