https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108387.A_Dictionary_of_Angels
YES, "including the fallen angels". whew, those are the best ones!a pleasant way to while away an evening. put some castrati on the record player, pour a glass of white wine, and learn all about the legions of good & ill. fascinating! and exhaustive. i found it fun to compile a mental list of my favorite and least favorite angels and proceed to pit them against each other in my own imaginary personal rapture/apocalypse.
I don't remember who got this book for me, but it's really neat. I use it to name alot of my pets.
This dictionary attempts to list all the angels named in authoritative sources, along with what is known of their functions and relationships.I got this book in December 1983, probably as a Christmas present (sorry, can't remember from whom).
But if I simply stick with the definition that appears in my Merriam Webster's Collegiate Dictionary--"a spiritual being superior to man in power and intelligence"--then I can simply come out and say: I believe.Indeed, my own belief in angels seems to be greater than Gustav Davidson's.
Growing up Protestant I didn't know much about angels. Who knew they were like smartphone apps of the heavens? Seriously, there's an angel for practically anything and everything. I really enjoyed this book and found it an incredible resource as I wrote an angel related original fiction last year. Comprehensive and easy to use, it was useful as a starting point to help me do further research certain characters. I think anyone who's interested in the supernatural will find this a handy addition to their collection.
This is an amazing book -- I used it when doing research for my novel, Release, and I'm continuing to use it for the sequel, Return. It also contains spells from the Key of Solomon and various grimoires at the end.Be warned, though, that this work, which is very thorough, was published before all the Dead Sea Scrolls were translated and thus, the tales of the Nephilim from the Book of Enoch are not fully detailed in this book. Still, it's a great reference work on Judeo-Christian mythology.
I got this book out of the library to use as research for one of my upcoming novels and discovered enough information that I have decided it is worthy of purchasing my own copy for further reference. Gives names and titles of angels alphabetically, but also by groups and by their "job descriptions". Full of charts and sigils and other interesting "artifacts". Definitely helpful for an author researching angels, but also full of enough information for anyone with any interest in them at all.
With all the books on Angels out there today, Davidson's work reigns toward the top. To many, it is THE angelic resource. I like how it includes the fallen angels and not just the frilly standard names you find elsewhere. Lots of obscure angels throughout many religions and Davidson does a good job tracing alternative spellings and nicknames back to their original owner.
I love this book. It has very reliable and interesting information about Angels and Fallen Angels.And his introduction was very fascinatingly cool. I wish he had more book's out.Can't wait to reread it.
Not that great. I expected more stories or explanations about Angels. No, the book has a short definition of each Angel. With a few added sections like the one with prayers. Like a dictionary. Who would have guessed?
Not really a sit-down to read book, but a reference book --- good to have around for research!
Love this book. Use it extensively for my writings. It is a great aide.
Exhaustive
Excellent source of information for anyone with an interest in angels!
I was extremely impressed with how many quite obscure sources were consulted, and how it also explores parallels to angels in various non-Jewish cultures (though occasionally gods from some cultures are listed - I don't know if I agree with them being counted as 'angels').
Besides an A-Z listing of angels, there's also a list of the 72 angels of the Shemhamphorae (which includes Michael), the names of Lilith's disguises, rituals and invocations from various grimoires, a list of the names of Metatron, and a list of the Watchers - forgive me if I've left anything out.For anyone writing fiction about angels, this is a 'Must-buy'.
Can't recommend this book enough!
This is an exhaustive list of angels, both 'good' and 'fallen.' I got this book in 1994, it was first printed in 1971, copyrighted by the author in 1967.
I can only imagine how many hours the author put into researching this book!
It includes a great appendix and a wonderfully large bibliography citing many old texts (I love old references!!!)...this was long before Google, so I have a deep appreciation for the time it would have taken him to write and research this book!
If you are into angel lore, Enochian magick or are just simply curious, this book is jam packed full of information on so many individual angels.
A+ book!
Everything from the reflective introduction, which I read with such gusto that I was ten minutes late for work, to the compartmentalized appendix achieves what I have attempted to make logic of in this esoteric universe of angels (including the fallen angels).
Now I don't have to—Gustav Davidson has done the work for me!Seeing as how my favorite topics to write about/ponder/research are angelic legend and demonic legend, I'm halfway there.
All I need now is a dictionary of demons with even half the completion and competence of The Dictionary of Angels (Including the Fallen Angels) to top off my encyclopedic bookshelves on the subject.
This is one of my favorite time waster books. It is a fascinating, detailed, and exhaustive treatment on the subject of angels and spirits of Judaic, Christian, and Islamic mythologies. The Abrahamic religions I might say. I found the Kabbalah research interesting. It seems that Jewish scholars had an angel for everything, one for every hour of the day and a demon for every hour of the night. That sort of thing; a full delineation of the Powers and Thrones emanating from the all powerful God. Very interesting book, highly recommended.
I can't imagine the amount of work that went into researching and writing this detailed reference. It is a reference work, so it's not really something you sit down and read for pleasure (unless you're weird like me). I also found a lot of the entries to be lacking in depth and detail; I suspect that the source material itself often included little more than a name and a brief description, so I don't really fault the author for this. If you're interested in theology, angels, folklore, or a writer looking for ideas, it's a high-quality reference resource.
This is an amazing resource for anyone studying angelology or, say, writing stories featuring angels. There are a lot of entries that give the reader little to go on ("an angel of Thursday in some occult traditions" is probably my favorite) but if the info provided isn't satisfactory, a very thorough list of resources is provided which can be back-tracked for more info (though honestly, if there's little provided in the entry, there's probably not much else to be found in the way of solid info or lore).
If you're into angelology, this is probably the best reference book there is. Nearly every named angel (including not only those from apocrypha, but texts including Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Mormon, and Hindu traditions) is included here. You can find all the different hierarchies of angels described here. It really is an encyclopedic reference. Writers who want to use angels from mythology would be well advised to refer to Davidson's work; many other dictionaries of angels are just condensed summaries of this book.
An amazingly complete collection of angels from all over the world. Also included are some of the more well known demons (such as Lillith).There's also appendexs' (appendexis? Appendices? Argh.) which cover material from angelic invocation to the angelic alphabet. And the book is worth it for the bibliography alone.All in all, the most comprehensive book on the subject (and an interesting read).
"I actually stumbled upon this amazing and extremely useful book at a flea market. As i was writing a book (fantasy novel) with lots of angelic and demonic characters, i was hard-pressed and tired (internet is ultra-cluttered) to find a suitable book for references. Thats when i found this book. Final verdict: Extremely useful for writers and an awesomely perfect resource on Angelic and Demonic lore."
I really enjoyed this book. There's no story line, so if you're interested in this one, please know..."Dictionary" isn't some nifty part of a nifty title. It's an actual dictionary that reads like a dictionary, alphabetical entries and all. The information was amazing though. It was all very detailed and the first section was just unreal (in a good way).
I like how so much is included from across cultures here with loads of information in the Appendix and 20 pages of Bibliography. I really like how extensive the research is without overt bias to exclude anything. Surprised by some of what I learned and definitely interested in further reading on the topic. (This is the kind of reference book I keep in my personal library to fuel my imagination.)
This book is IT. While writing my debut novel, Psyche's Gate, I referred to Mr. Davidson's fantastic compilation of all things angelic again and again. From the well-known to the obscure, the highest Seraph to the lowest of the fallen angels, this book is a rich wellspring for the author, historian, student, theologan, or general fan of mythology.
This is a phenomenal, thorough, and comprehensive references to all things angel amongst other facets of religious symbolism. I refer to Davidson's work on a nearly daily basis to assist with my writing or research. It's often used in conjunction to Dion Fortune's Mystical Qabalah, another fantastic resource for religious and occult studies.
I'm not gonna read this book. I learned my lesson with "Dictionary of Symbols" and "Encyclopedia of Gods". No matter how interesting the subject matter, if it starts with "dictionary", it's not a cover-to-cover situation.I'ma reference it, though. When I need to look up fallen angels. Which is more often than most, probably. That counts as reading.
As far as I'm concerned this is the one stop reference book for angels, & the term "angel" is defined pretty broadly. With an appendix of alleged angelic alphabets? Who could ask for anything more. --MK
Well researched source for angels with plenty of definitions and references to check. There are even charts with angelic scripts in the back, which is quite interesting! This book is my first stop for lore when I need angelic information.
We read to gain knowledge of angels. This book reveal destiny! She recommend this book for the public. Reason: To know destiny! Mankind can become destiny! Mankind can have knowledge of tri-unity of God's Government. Mankind can receive knowledge of orders in the spiritual world.
Well researched. These names are hard to come by and then finding out their place/duties as angels or demons is truly an immense task. No matter your religious choice, this book is a good reference book to have.
