https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14904.Jane_Austen
love Jane Austen
I’m not going to lie, I saw the movie before I read the book.
The best part about seeing the movie before reading the book was that I wasn’t let down by it, I liked it even more.
Usually movies leave plenty of details out, which Pride and Prejudice didn’t escape from, and you’re let down due to reading the book first.
Some big ones I noticed were class distinctions and economic status and turmoil, war, changing of the seasons, family and the importance of inheritance, love and betrayal, and most obviously, pride and prejudice.
Pride and Prejudice - This will always be my favourite book.Persuasion - I enjoyed this and I wanted to really love it, but there were some characters and actions that I found lacking.
I will say though, that I really connected with Anne and wanted her to be happy.Mansfield Park - I've seen less than positive views on this book, but I actually really enjoyed most of it.
Why must you do this to me Jane Austen?!
WHY?!All in all, these three are probably my favourite Austen novels out of the ones I've read.
This book I find so good! In the beginning it was a bit long, But especially towards the end, it turned and was so good! I found myself Reading faster and more energized and just all in all enjoying it to full instinct!
A full review can be found here:https://www.janeausten.co.uk/oxford-w...
The Complete Illustrated Novels of Jane Austen (Volume 1) includes the books; Pride and Prejudice, Mansfield Park and Persuasion.
I began this book with very high expectations as I know that they are all classics and are loved by many.Pride and Prejudice: I had a hard time making a positive connection with the characters in this story.
Mansfield Park:After reading the Pride and Prejudice I now have an understanding of Jane Austen’s writing style.
I found that the story of Mansfield Park kept my interest more than that of Pride and Prejudice, however I didn’t have an overly strong connection with any of the characters.
Elizabeth is also prejudice to an extent of judging Mr.Darcy unfairly in the beginning of the book based on his cold, almost snooty attitude toward her, which is the result of him pushing her away due to her social standing.
The driving base and plot line of this entire story is the romance between Elizabeth Bennet, a girl of relatively low social standing in a class based society, and Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy, the wealthy and highly regarded master of Pemberley.
A very good book, in my opinion, and I would highly recommend it to anyone who has not yet read.
None of the dramatisations had whetted my appetite; I found them slow-paced and tedious.The book turned out to be engrossing.
Even the poorest in the cast of characters have servants.Mr Bennet is a ‘gentleman’ i.e. he has inherited enough property to allow him to live on the income it generates.
His problem is that he has only inherited a life interest and on his death the estate must pass to a male relative.
A distant male relative will inherit and the daughters’ only hope of a secure future is to make a ‘suitable’ marriage.The slow pace allows the characters to be fully, and brilliantly, developed.
Her fashion in relating Mr. Darcy’s self-struggles with his feelings towards Elizabeth and her reluctance as to acknowledge it was such as to elevate my fancy.
It is followed through Elizabeth’s, second to the siblings, lively, opinionated point of view.I would further venture to allude that Pride And Prejudice candidly refers to Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth, respectively.
The former’s forbearance, as it appeared to Lizzy, is all that is marked with pride and self-conceit, which may well be credited to the latter’s prejudices and misapprehensions.
Pride and Prejudice has always been one of my favorite books.
The language was hard to grasp, the characters were one dimensional, and I didn't quite understand what the deal was with Mr. Darcy.
The only thing that I could hold onto was Elizabeth Bennet.
There was a girl that I could admire, a character who seemed very real to me.
The book took me forever to finish, and when I was done I didn't care if I ever read another word from it again.
That was what Elizabeth Bennet did for me.
I re read the book again in high school, and I read again once a year.
Pride and Prejudice is a book that is full of gender and social stratification.
It is a book that once you pick it up, you do not want to put it down.
There is never a dull moment when it comes to matters of the heart.
A rough exterior or what appears to be arrogant may indeed be the result of something that happened in your past or just someone misjudging who you are.
Pride and Prejudice is a good example of not judging a book by its cover.
An arrogant man may be looking for love.
My family and I just took a long car-trip, and listened to Pride and Prejudice on the ways there and back.
We listened to Craft Lit's version, Chapter one of Pride and Prejudicewhich is perfectly awesome - the host, Heather Ordover, is a literature teacher, and she really does an excellent job presenting each chapter.
She tells the modern reader about things which were common in the time of Austen, but which we don't know too much about today - customs, laws, terms, and other little tid-bits which make the book so much more enjoyable.
This is probably my favorite book ever. I reread it all the time in my free time. I love Austen's characters, especially Lizzy Bennet ans her fresh sense of humor. The relationship dynamic in this book is between Lizzy and Mr. Darcy and all I'm going to say is 'Best dynamic ever'. You'll have to read it if you love quirky characters, slight revered storyline, mixed with several relationship angles.
I'm one of those perennial fans of Jane Austen. Read most of the novels -- P&P many times -- and watched a good portion of the TV series and/or movies. My favs being the PBS series with Colin Firth, Emma with Gwenyth Paltrow, and Clueless with Alicia Silverstone. In other words, I just never get tired of Austen's style. BTW, just saw "Jane Austen's Book Club" -- it doesn't rank as anything special, but it's a good chikflik.
Pride and Prejudice: DARCY!!!Mansfield Park: First time reading it. Pretty good.Persuasion: That last letter from Cpt. Wentworth to Anne... *sobsob**... so romantic!! (Shout out to For Darkness Shows the Stars, which is a sci-fi retelling. LOVED IT!!!)
Mansfield Park:This was actually the first Jane Austen book I had ever read and felt disappointed by the end. I was fine that the heroin, Fanny Price, didn't have a strong personality throughout the book. I mainly disliked the build up of all the characters only to have it end abruptly. It was like I was being told a story only to have the story teller get bored at the end and close the book while summing up the end in a tired way.
What the heck is wrong with this site, they don't have Persuasion?! I only read Persuasion, but didn't feel like entering all the info by myself- so here it looks like I read all three. Persuasion was a great, quick read. Poor Elizabeth, glad for Anne, and relieved Wentworth didn't screw everything up by being a dud.
My favorite book of all times. Mr. Darcy and Ms. Bennett... Just wow!! I love reading books from this time period. It's rare that I will ever read a book twice. This is one of the few exceptions. I have not only read the book multiple times, I have listened to it on audio and love watching the movie. Excellent read!
When we studied Jane Austen at school, I'm ashamed to say I found her books boring. Astonishing really, because Pride & prejudice is a book I come back to again and again now I'm older, and never get tired of the TV & radio adaptations. Thank god I matured enough to enjoy Austen's brilliant and witty observations. The interactions between characters are soooo good!
Took in the story for the fourth time. Although this time around, it was via an audiobook and was narrated by Rosamund Pike and it was even more brilliant :). Jane Austen would always be a classic. And every read brings something new you might have missed at one time or the other in the previous readings.
I find it very lovely. I got intrigued with Mr.Darcy and Lady Catherine and her fond relation of Mr. Collins. I have actually watched a movie that was derived from this book, its Bride and Prejudice.I found out, that it was the same thing, the names were changed, and some scenes rearranged, but still both charming and lovely. Splendid indeed. :)
Novel bhs inggris pertama yg saya baca :P baca buku ini dengan panduan kamus disebelahnya hehe . dari bhs inggris pas-pas-an yg saya kuasai buku ini lumayan bagus, tpi agak bosenin yah mungkin karena bhs inggris semua jadi saya harus bolak balik buka kamus lalu mencerna kalimatnya dan baru mengerti ceritanya :P . 1 yg saya sukai dari buku ini adalah...saya jadi banyak belajar bhs inggris hahhaa
I read this novel for a writing class. Although I usually prefer modern literature and often bestsellers, reading a classic like this makes one realize what literature is all about. Even today and with a totally different social structure, this novel continues to capture the interest of any reader.
I read this after falling in love with a BBC adaptation that aired last year. I have never been a fan of English Romantic literature, and was surprised by how much I adored this book. Jane Austen weaves such a vivid tapestry of time and place, that I was able to lose myself completely in her story. And, oh, that Mr. Darcy!
Hmm, for some reason when I tried to find Pride and Prejudice on its own Sense and Sensibility showed up and then a huge list of other crap. So, I picke this omnibus but haven't read the others in it.
Jane really did an awesome work in this book. Ifind the title absolutely appropriate..Although it took me a bit long time to read but its wonderful. I really like the shallow talking of the characters...
1.Jane Austen, PENGUIN, Level 22.80min3.love, marry, handsome, yong, man, meet, family 4.When do you want to marry?-I don't know, perhaps about 10 years later.5.Captain Wentworth is kind to everybody, handsome and a young mas. He really admires me, too
Nobody does scathing social commentary like Ms. Austen! I can't even say how many times I have reread Pride and Prejudice. It's an old friend. Someone recently said they thought it was a romance- yes, but SO MUCH MORE!
I really don't care for either the author or the subject matter. That time period is so obsequious and all the characters are predictable and boring. I only read this because it was assigned in High School.
I own an earlier binding of this collection. What do I have to say about Austen? She's just fabulous. The pinnacle is Pride and Prejudice and (sigh) Mr. Darcy. I have also read and enjoyed the other two novels - particularly Persuasion.
