https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42432.God_Emperor_of_Dune
Thus Leto committed the ultimate sin: you can be a despot and sometimes your people can tolerate and even forgive you, but absolutely nobody wants an Emperor who baubles non-stop.
No Golden Path can change it.In the last part of the book – where I get to on sheer willpower – Leto finally shut up to my surprise.
Leto II was born way after the original Duncan died.
One more fact I found hard to believe: nothing much changed during 3500 years between the books.
Even considering that Leto suppressed all changes, that many years is a lot of time.
But overall, it was a good read.One thing I still don't understand - and perhaps someone more versant in the Dune universe will enlighten me - is what was the threat to humanity that the Golden Path was initiated to alleviate?
If so, just enforcing a brutal 3500 year peace was just postponing the inevitable?
Another puzzling thing was the tolerance of Ix. Apparently, in the distant past before Dune, the Butlerian Jihad was raged against "thinking" machines which resulted in a world with human computers (Mentats and Guild Navigators) and a formal universal proscription of computers.
I hated this book the first time I read it.
Dune was the perfect hero book, and then Herbert turned the trope of “boy becomes Messiah and saves the noble people” on its head with Dune Messiah and Children of Dune.
In those two volumes, everything assumed and trusted became so much sand, and a son had to destroy his Messiah father’s legacy to save the universe from religious genocide and tyranny.
In Emperor, we discover that the boy’s plan to save humanity from tyranny is...
It's not until the end of this book that you begin to understand Herbert's grand plan for his series.
DUNE is really about shaking man out of an evolutionary cul-de-sac, showing a frustrated civil(?) society that despite its technological and social superiority is stagnating.
And the only one to understand this is Leto II, God Emperor of the Known Universe.
In his transformed state, he rules a bizarrely changed Dune, and through more political intrigue and the continued centuries-long resurrection of Duncan Idaho clones, we learn that Leto has seen this decline of man coming and his twisted machinations are an attempt to prepare the human race to evolve beyond this end.
Only one part remains from the old days: Leto II, the God Emperor.God Emperor of Dune is, logically, a book centred around Leto.
The so-called God Emperor who so valiantly sacrificed his human existence for that of an emperor doomed to serve his people by living through the ages and preserving the universe, has turned into a tyrant.
People living under the oppression of Leto’s rule joining together in rebellion against the monstrous tyrant.
That, of course, makes one wonder what the point is about the whole thing.Next to Leto and Siona, the rest of the characters are few and uninteresting.
They published it because he wrote it, it had Dune in the title, and people would buy it, read it, and claim to love it because of it.So, this leaves the question, was Herbert balls out insane from the beginning, and simply constrained by his publishers and editors to create art for his first three books?
He's a terrible character, and as an extension of that, any story revolving around him is also terrible.Herbert STILL does not seem to feel the need to explain what motivates Leto to do what he has done, and why I should care about it.
The weakest of the original series, the fourth Dune book published in 1981 and Herbert's brilliant work begun in 1965 finally bottoms out. Like many reviewers have said, the quality of the literature diminishes with each installment, but flashes of Herbert's brilliance shines through. I can see the influence on the Star Wars films, is Leto the inspiration for Jabba the Hutt or Anakin Skywalker or both? I became an instant fan of Dune after the original, but after reading this one I took a long break not just from Dune but from Frank Herbert.
God Emperor of Dune is the red-headed stepchild of the series. Frank Herbert delves into the mind of a near omniscient god-creature. Many people feel disturbed or bored by this book, calling it the most "dull" of the series. From a philosophical point of view, this is probably the most advanced book in the series. Definitions of humanity and morality are contrasted in very personal ways in this book. Those familiar with Lovecraftian Cthulu mythos could well use this as a textbook to start thinking about "alien" motives and the human concept of "evil".
Reviews for this book have called it "heady" and "deep." I cannot concur more.
This profoundly philosophical installment in "the bestselling sci-fi series of all time" explores the now-verdant world of Arrakis thirty-five hundred years after the events in Children of Dune.
To be sure, Leto's transformation is both disturbing and uncomfortable (and yes, the full physical ramifications of this transformation are explored thoroughly), yet it feels quite naturally based in the mythology that Frank Herbert has laid out thus far in the series.
One wonders if they deserve the great sacrifice he has made for them and if they will ever understand or deserve the great words he leaves behind in his journals.Every time I read God Emperor of Dune I find new layers of meaning, new ideas to ponder, and new beauty to appreciate.
Give the series a try and if you can not read God Emperor yet, set it aside and try again another time.
Nowadays of course one can just read the gist of it on Wikipeadia, but in the dim and distant past, curiosity about a story could only be satisfied by the personal turning of the pages of an entire book.The opening I thought was great and it was interesting to see the outcomes of the Fremen's plan, outlines the previous thousand or so pages of the three preceding volumes, to irrigate the surface of Dune - and for a book series with such a focus on ecology it was completely indifferent to the number of trees that would need to be sacrificed to the paper-mills and the release of waste water into rivers and lakes...I think I would have enjoyed this more if Herbert had followed the technique that Asimov used in the Foundation series of using short stories and novellas to create a narrative that spanned great reaches of time rather than having great blocky narratives bound into print bricks based around single points in time.
On my list of All Time Favorite novels.
Of course, it should be noted that I could sit and read a Dune Encyclopaedia (is theior one?) from cover to cover and be very content.
One note: I have both read the prin version and listened to the unabridged audiobook of this novel (as I have for all of the first 4 Dune novels) and I highly recommeded the audiobook to everyone.
The full cast for the audio performance is wonderful and I think it truly enhances the enjoyment of the book.
First, he needed to free the humanity from the spice addiction, thus during a long period of time he wiped out the sandworms, which wore the only source of spice and could live only in one place: Dune.
This had also several reasons behind it: he slowly started reducing the spice addiction of humanity, by the end Leto's rule people wore almost free of it and the spice influenced only a few essential aspects of life (ex: space travel) .
Useful background book to read if you've ever thought you might like to rule the Universe. It's a really terrible job.
Buddy Read with MarkusActual Rating: 2.5 stars  I was born Leto Atreides II more than three thousand standard years ago, measuring from the moment when I cause these words to be printed. My father was Paul Muad’Dib. My mother was his Fremen consort, Chani. My maternal grandmother was Faroula, a noted herbalist among the Fremen. My paternal grandmother was Jessica, a product of the Bene Gesserit breeding scheme in their search for a male who could share the powers of the Sisterhood’s Reverend Mot
This whole book was about Leto and how amazing he is.
This planet of Arrakis from which I direct my multigalactic Empire is no longer what it was in the days when it was known as Dune.
I want my DUNE BACK!
I want the stillsuits and the REAL Fremen...this didn't feel like Dune at all.
It would of been better if there was more resistance and fighting to bring Dune back to what it once was, but it was always second to Leto.
I wanted to love Siona, but I didn't get to see her often and Duncan...is the same Duncan.
Please, make it stop.
In writing this novel, Herbert asked himself one question: If I had thousands of years at my disposal, how would I fix humanity?Within that question lies the character of Leto II, and the character of Leto II provokes all of the action of the story.I'll give away none of the plot here, but in order to appreciate the tragedy that is God Emperor of Dune it's important to consider the quality of the main character, Leto II.In the earlier Dune books, the primary superheroic gift of Paul Atreides was an ability to foresee many different possible futures.
After awhile I was feeling that I was back at my Philosophy classes back in High School, but hey, I can't argue against a best-selling author.
The structure is unorthodox and consists mainly and most significantly of digressions from the eponymous God Emperor, Leto II, whose sacrifice in order to set humanity on the Golden Path his father deferred, has physically and mentally alienated him from it.
This is why all the facets and complexity Herbert bestows on his eponymous character here such a feat- unparalleled in my view.Numerous, often coy insights into the past that leads to doom if not for his Golden Path are ruminated upon by Leto alongside ambiguities which must be addressed at this late stage in his plans before his own necessary demise.
God Emperor of Dune made me feel really weird while I was reading it, and this is after like a half-summer of feeling really fucking weird reading every one of these books, but seriously -- I am saying, weird.
Reading this book is like herding cats, if cats were made of light.God Emperor of Dune is not only really fun to say, it is also a pretty cool book to read.
Check in with me in four years or so, and we'll see if I was able to read it again and actually make sense of it.
I just finished this one and liked it almost as much as the first, which is really saying something. I have to say that Leto disgusted me at first ... gave me the willies just reading about him, kind of like squishing a snail, but by the end of the book, I felt dreadfully sorry for him, and had a reluctant respect for the lonely choices he made. I'd certainly have never made those sacrifices. I have a pile of quotes from the wise Mr. Herbert to add here ....
Pues hasta aquí hemos llegado.Avanzaba por la saga de Dune cual Indiana Jones por el Templo Maldito: esperando la trampa de pinchos en cualquier momento.Y aunque el segundo y tercer libro son continuaciones muy aceptables, en esta cuarta ocasión a Herbert ya se le va de las manos.Los acontecimientos los sitúa 3000 años después de lo que ocurre anteriormente: ni el planeta, ni la sociedad ni los personajes son los mismos. Y prefiere centrarse en las disquisiciones filosóficas más que en la propia historia por lo que se hace difícil de leer.Me voy a plantear seriamente seguir con la saga.
This book has changed my life. It's after I read it that I decided to become an immortal giant worm, and to travel across the whole universe to have sex with the most beautiful creatures (of every of the 17 existing sexes). Oh, and I've killed one trillion people but I swear they were annoying. What a wonderful life!
I loved the first three Dune books, but this one felt lackluster in comparison.
I kept waiting for the revelation of what the Golden Path would be, or how it had turned Moneo and Siona from rebels to devotees...
I wanted to be enlightened too!
I kept expecting the great reveal of why Leto II acted as he had.
I wanted more insight into the Bene Gesserit, or Ix, or Tleilaxu, or the Guild, but didn’t get much.
I’ll finish out the series as written by Frank Herbert, but I’m not sure about the books written by his son...
What a tragedy, the original 1965 Dune is one of the most legendary novels of all time.
But with each sequel, it gets less interesting.
They aren't so much about plot but world-building, with a new paradigm endlessly explained while little story progresses.
Mostly though, it's about speeches.Herbert gets to indulge in long-winded conversations with all his opinions on stuff.
Even when the conversations between the giant talking worm and his subjects are fascinating, you have to admit this is not quite a novel.
Then, everyone but the most rabid fandom should just ignore the other books...Well, I think that's it for me reading this series!
This is one of the best books I have ever read.
There are so many layers to this book that work.
Firstly, the idea behind accurately conveying a nigh immortal being's state of mind (a being with the memories of countless people) is no easy task, I found myself fully understanding the main character, the God emperor Leto.
What was powerful was the way that his character had troubles coming to grips with an inability to do physical love, but the writing gave you that hunger in his mind, the desire he wanted more.
Highly recommended read.
Δυστυχώς αυτό το βιβλίο δεν ήταν αυτό που περίμενα.
Η δράση είναι σχεδόν ανύπαρκτη στις πρώτες 300 κάτι σελίδες και όπου υπάρχει δεν έχει κανένα ενδιαφέρον και δε γεννά κανένα συναίσθημα.
Θέτει πολλά φιλοσοφικά ερωτήματα προς συζήτηση που αφορούν την κοινωνία, την πολιτική και τη θρησκεία και αν και προσπαθεί να πει κάτι ενδιαφέρον, τελικά δεν καταφέρνει να ξεφύγει και πολύ από ιδέες της δεκαετίας του 80.
Ο θεϊκός αυτοκράτορας Λίτο ΙΙ σίγουρα δεν είναι αντάξιος του πατέρα του.Όσο για τα love stories, τι να πω; Διαβάζω επιστημονική φαντασία ακριβώς για να μη διαβάζω τέτοιες αηδίες, αλλά τελικά δε βλέπω να γλιτώνω...
Why, He's only the 3,000 year old son of a Messiah, who has morphed into a giant hallucinogenic producing space-wurm with near omniscient abilities about past, present and future and proclaimed himself the God Emperor of the whole freaking universe, is all.
Down with the old customs, in with the new!!!!!!!!!!God Emperor of Dune is little more than 98% political drivel, a touch of bizarre Gnosticism, and 1% story.
I was about to 1-star this sucker until I realized: wait, this book is about a freaking giant Space-Wurm who is the God Emperor of the entire freaking MULTIVERSE.
I think that God Emperor Leto II, the man who turned himself into a giant sandworm in order to save humanity, and thereby lived for 3500 years, is my favorite character in fiction, science or otherwise.
Of course, a being with that long a life, and with "other memories" going back through the entire history of mankind to the first stirrings of cellular awareness, is a remarkable achievement.
His insights are lucid and insightful, and one I remember, about all armies being rape armies, is especially poignant today in the light of all the rape and abuse charges in the US Military.
Truly a remarkable part of the best series in sci-fi.
Un autre bon roman dans la série Dune. On se retrouve plusieurs centaines d'années après le tome précédent, environ 3500 ans plus tard, rien de moins. Un peu moins d'action dans celui-ci, mais j'ai beaucoup aimé tout le côté philosophique, presque spirituel, que Leto apporte dans ses réflexions. Et bien sûr, l'univers très riche créé par l'auteur est toujours aussi original et fascinant! Une excellente lecture!
