https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2948240-daedalus
Often considered one of the first ever trans-humanist tracts, believing that science can overcome human limitations.
He predicted, in a time when 70% of the population was rural, that agriculture would be mostly automated, and most of humanity would live in cities (not wrong).
He also talks about how technology has a habit of outpacing morality.
Mentioning how eugenicists and trying to 'genetically purify' humans could have dire consequences...
wow.The information he talks about still applies, given the political environment we live in:"Applied science tends to magnify injustices until they become too intolerable.
Since this book was written about 90 years ago, it is at times hard to understand, but its sheer distance from the present makes Haldane's prophecies all the more interesting.
My takeaway is that we are generally awful at predicting the future, but it's amazing how much science has progressed in ways that people could have never imagined, and it is heartening to think that it will continue to progress in the future.
I think this is the takeaway he wanted people to have: science has not reached a limit.
There are always more discoveries to be made, and scientific progress will have both positive and negative effects, hopefully with the positive outweighing the negative.
Not an easy book to read, perhaps because of the style of the author's language. Interesting to read his scientific projections from 1924 and see how many have or have not come to pass. Also interesting to see that they did not know in 1924 that it was a lack of estrogen that contributed to menopausal symptoms. Generally positive toward science, but with reminders about social responsibility.
My father found what appears to be an original copy of this 1924 publication in the house of confederate General Joe Wheeler as a kid. I recently found it on his shelf and took it home. This guy had some really good ideas of what the future would bring, and he is right for the most part.
Though in black jest it bows and nodsUnder the moons with silver rods,I know it is roaring at the gods,Waiting the last eclipse.
