https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239356.Huey_Long
Unfortunately, just two months after his retirement and after completing the first two chapters of the book, Williams died at age seventy.It is impossible to summarize his biography of Long, but needless to say it is a thorough documentation of the life and times of one of the most fascinating politicians this country has ever produced.
There have been a number of Huey Long biographies published since and most have been less sympathetic toward its subject, but they all have to be measured against Williams’ monumental work.
Harry Williams did for Huey Long what David McCullough did for Truman, Robert Remini did for Andrew Jackson, and Douglas Southall Freeman did for R.
Huey Long is a sterling example of biography as history.
This was not just a biography of a politician, but a perceptive history of politics in Louisiana, the American South, and the United States from the beginning of the 20th century until just before World War II.
Professor Williams received the National Book Award and Pulitzer Prize for Biography in 1970 for Huey Long.
Any reader with a deep interest in American politics or Depression-era history should pick up a copy of Williams' Huey Long.
Few biographies of such length have so captivated me that I poured through them so quickly.Of course, I'd heard about Huey Long, Governor, the Senator of Louisiana.
I'd seen both filmed versions of All the King's Men, read one biographical book combining the stories of Huey and Coughlin, 'the radio priest', read many references to Long in histories of the thirties--all of which left me with the unattractive two-dimensional picture of a fascistic populist demagogue.Williams' portrayal of Long, while fleshing out what his critics were objecting to, is generally sympathetic, if a little bewildered.
How far, then, Williams' wonders, can one go, ethically speaking, in amassing power through questionable means towards commendable ends?
Professor Williams was a professor of history and approached this biography from the perspective of an academic.
Though Mr. Williams seems to have admired Huey Pierce Long he is not blind to the man's faults either.
The biography achieves a good balance and that's important when considering Huey Long.
He doesn't romanticize or tear apart the time period that Huey Long lived in.
Mr. Williams shows that when Long lived people were no better and no worse than the present.
I've read a few Pulitzer Prize winning books in the past and (in my opinion) "Huey Long" is one of the better winners.
Harry Williams published the book back in 1969, he was one of the first academically-trained historians to use oral history sources to compliment his research, and unlike academic historians today who use oral histories to beat to death some tired theory, he uses them to create a stunning political yarn.Williams understood early on that Huey Long was not one to leave many written notes, so he interviewed everyone from his bodyguards to his sisters to his political opponents.
Within a few years he increasingly broke down local government in the state, passing laws that allowed him to appoint members of the New Orleans Dock Board, the Highway Commission, local police deputies, and even, by the end, local teachers.
Coming from a small town in Louisiana, free of any mentors and beholden to no one, Long stumbled around in his youth but early on showed the characteristics that would typify his life: a love of attention, an eagerness to make a scene to get it and a complete lack of fear in challenging power starting with that of his high school principal.
He was so gifted that his opponents right up to the members of the U.S. Senate essentially gave up trying to knock him down, fearing to even stand and speak against his efforts because all knew that in reply he would not only rip them to shreds but make them look like fools as well.No stranger to technology, Huey pioneered the national radio address.
Williams, who invested more than a decade into the research and writing of this book, was in a unique position to do so: he was a Louisiana native and thus familiar with Long's period of power and his accomplishments while both Governor and Senator.
Likewise, when Long went to Washington D.C. as Senator, for the most part Rose remained in Louisiana, only coming to Washington periodically, and even then her time spent there was brief.
Williams fills the book with so many interesting anecdotes that, all together, they provide the reader with a good flavor of what Long's life was like, and how he operated.
It's sat on my self since then but I figured that now that I'm living in Louisiana I had to finally read it.And I'm glad I did!This book is a detailed examination of Long's life.
He's at the center of everything -- crusading, looming larger than life, picking fights, and consolidating power -- but I never had a sense of who he really was.Williams is clearly trying to rehabilitate Long's reputation.
And Williams doesn't even really address the significance on this front of Long's close ties to noted bigots like Father Coughlin and Theodore Bilbo.So I had some complaints, but all in all I'm really glad I read this biography.
An amazing biography and analysis of the life and politics of Huey Long, the governor of Louisiana and political rival to Franklin D. Roosevelt. So well written that it was hard to put down.
Read this years ago shortly after it came out. It explains a lot about Southern politics! Fascinating.
An objective and thorough book that tells the story of one of the most controversial and colorful leaders in American history, it is a must read for anyone interested in politics.
Huey Long genuninely cared for the working class and when he was elected governor he gave them things they always wanted but never dreamed they'd have.
At the time of his death he was at the height of his power, the unquestioned leader of Louisiana who could have any legislation he wanted passed and did not need to fear any opposition for he had already eliminated them.Huey Long is either remembered today as a potential dictator or a champion of the poor.
One ends this book seriously wondering how different this nation would be had the assassins bullet hit a less vital part of this man's body.
Huey Long's political acumen and ambition were unparalleled in American history.
Though his policies are very much not what I would support, I can't help but be impressed by his political skills.
It is kind of interesting to read his arguments, though; Progressives haven't updated their position or even their slogans in a very, very long time ("The top 2% own X% of the wealth, if we don't stop this concentration there will be a revolution!").
Academic historians spend a lot of time complaining about the merits of so called popular history.
This is of course mostly due to the fact that popular histories outsell what the academics generally turn out.
I've read both types and have always felt that if the academics would turn out books that weren't so dull they could attract readers also.
Harry Williams delivers absolute proof that academics can turn out extremely interesting books.
This book is fascinating from cover to cover and anyone interested in politics and government should read this biography of one of the cleverest and most influential politicians of all time.
Definitely pro-Huey on the balance, but Williams seems to make an effort to show both sides. Very worthwhile read about an amazing politician. Great (and frequently humorous) anecdotes scattered throughout.
Harry Williams gave him.However, this is less a biography than a monumental work of history, taking as its subject 1920s & 30s Louisiana politics, of which Huey Long was unassailably the central figure.
He actually showed significant restraint even as he gained a vise-like grip on the state.The book is also an interesting look at how American politics, and the domestic issues we face, haven't changed much.
Domestically, however, Huey Long might have been the only progressive president capable of making real economic reforms.
Fascinating biography, both readable (but beware, at 924 pages it is a significant time commitment) and well researched. The author had the advantage of doing his research while many of the Kingfish's allies and enemies (as well as just regular folks who had encountered him in various circumstances) were still alive - interviews with a staggering 295 people were used in this book. The result is a fairly sympathetic portrayal of Long, but one that clearly acknowledges his faults. Probably the best Long biography I've read.
For one thing, he wasn’t just a politician, he was a one-man crusade.
Parallel with political prominence, he saw himself building a better life for the commoner and for bringing down the wealthy--individuals and corporations alike.
He had achieved national prominence and was well on his way to making a bid for the presidency--or at least making a lot of trouble for FDR--in 1936 when he was gunned down in the lobby of the Louisiana state capital in 1935 at age 43.
He wasn’t an advocate for racial reform--desegregation or voting rights--beyond asserting that even the niggers deserved a good job and a decent family life.
I'm mixed in what I think of this very long biography of Huey P.
The man was so fascinating that any fair biography would be good because of the subject matter.
Even though those battles of Huey's are a part of the whole, I think some skimming would have helped.
Some of his ideas were way ahead of his time, and some intrigue me greatly, such as the Share Our Wealth Program.
Share Our Wealth sounds worth trying.
If he had succeeded, how different (and very possibly scary) our history might have been!This book really made me think.
Ultimately, I felt that while he may have (and most certainly did) do things that would not pass the muster of good government today, Louisiana in the 1930s was a political knife-fight, and things were and always had been quite shady and Machiavellian, with the states politics being run by the Old Regular machine of New Orleans since the end of Reconstruction.
I have to state up front that I believe that Huey Long was a greater threat to this country than FDR was, so that made this impeccably researched book tough for me to trudge through at times. With that being said, you will not find a less biased biography of such a polarizing figure. I enjoyed reading about his manipulations and tactics that led to his rise to power in Louisiana more than his Redistribution of Wealth efforts on the national scene. This is a must read for LSU alumni, all Louisiana residents, and history nerds, like myself.
The rise and sudden fall of a legend in the body politik.The only way to get things done in politics is to run over other people. Huey Long ran over other people better than most, and all in the name of "the poor and the working man."The Kingfish and the Louisiana pols put Tammany Hall (and the state of IL) to shame, and put the UP in corruption.Densely packed but a fun read if you love reading about dead politicians as much as I do. Wonky wonk badonkadok.
I highly recommend this book be read. It doesn't matter if you have heard of Huey Long or not. Whether you like him or you don't, this book takes an unbiased stand, which is hard to come by when it comes to such a figure as the Kingfish.
The standard biography (and a competent one) of the larger-than-life governor of the great state of Louisiana.
He won a big lawsuit against a big oil company and parlayed that into becoming the Kingfish. Eleanor Roosevelt hated him.
The best biography of Huey P. Long, written by a University of Southern Mississippi professor who manages to keep it neutral.
Yes, Huey did some great things, and in Louisiana, his memory is revered in holiness among most, but after reading this 900-page account, it left me feeling the man was flat out dangerous.Huey Long was probably the closest thing to a dictator that the United States has ever known.
This man would be very dangerous had he had a YouTube channel or a Twitter account.So we read about his escapades, first, as Governor of Louisiana.
Things don’t change as a U.S. Senator.
A book that lacks much of the how and focuses on too much on the what.
Its implicit whataboutism - when Williams mentions any of Long's innumerable dictatorial moves, he immediately shifted focus back to the anti-Long groups, emphasizing (well, trying to) their heinous behavior too, even when Williams hasn't the evidence to make some of the bold claims.
This trusting use of biased sources really clouds a lot of the arguments and conclusions Williams puts forth.Compared to other ambitious biographies, such as Caro's volumes on LBJ, this one really falls woefully short on explanation, detail, and dispassionate observation.
Very well written, it is an amazing story of Huey Long’s rise to power and how ruthless he was in extending it. He did some very good things in Louisiana during the depression but was a very vindictive man. From his political leanings I thought that he would have been a strong supporter of FDR but in fact was one of his harshest critics. This book won the Pulitzer Prize in Biography and also a National Book Award.
It took some work to get through and I didn't completely follow all the intricacies of legislation and legal proceedings and my eyes may have glazed a bit during sections that involved listing name after name of bit players but these are things that come with reading an academic biography. Overall it's a lively, compelling work about one of the most fascinating figures in American politics, full of depth, detail, and incident.
T. Harry Williams' Huey Long remains the definitive look at the Depression-era demagogue, who rose from modest background in the Louisiana Hill Country to crafty local politician to state dictator and improbable national figure.
Understandably, Williams finds Long difficult to come to terms with; on the one hand, he was a power-hungry leader who turned Louisiana into his own extra-legal fiefdom; on the other, his Share Our Wealth program stemmed from a sincere desire to help the downtrodden.
Williams' book attempts (though doesn't quite achieve) the sociological life-and-times depth of Robert Caro's later books on LBJ, but works best as a portrait of an outsized politician who struggled to balance good impulses and amoral methods on a national stage.
