https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1264677.13_Steps_to_Mentalism
I used to read a lot of books like this one when I was a lot younger, and I love this sort of thing. I'm curious how it might read to someone who isn't already accustomed to (and accepting of) the style and tone. It's all about mentalism, and even though most of its references are several decades old and out-of-date, the effects and the psychology behind them are still current (as far as I can tell, anyway, not being a professional mentalist).
An absolutely fascinating book for everyone who wants to step inside the mentalism world. This is a must read!This classical text on mentalism was originally published in 1961. It has been reprinted number of times so the mental effects and the psychology behind them are still relevant today.The book has grown over the years into one of the most famous books about mentalism. Instead of all sorts of theories about mentalism it presents mentalism more from a practical point of view.With a number of secrets revealed by professionals and through a step-by-step plan you can easily perform mentalism tricks yourself.
For the purpose of curiosity I picked this one and I started believing that I will become Mentalist, Like Patrik Jane, end up becoming reader of such books only. I think expecting to be a mentalist just by reading book is of no use, even if you try it on people ,you may learn little. It needs proper coaching. anyways, It added some knowledge in me.
The literal bible of mentalism
This book taught me so many tricks useful for an upcoming job interview. The memory system is the bee's knees!
Great book all about the side of mentalism and the methods too the madness.
Nice
I picked up this book hoping it would cover the human reading, manipulation and behavior aspects of mentalist.
While it did touch on some topics of that nature, it primarily covered slight of hand tricks for performances.As it turns out, this was fascinating in its own right.
I found it mind boggling to see how deception can be achieved through taking advantage of people's fundamental assumptions--especially if given lots of time, practice and dedication.No, I have no interest in learning mentalist and you won't see me with a deck of cards at parties.
But as long as you're not the sort that is disappointed when the magic is "ruined", it's a fun read.
I can't tell you much about this book for fear of giving anything away.
You just have to read it.
The one major drawback to this book is that it was clearly written in a different time.
Corinda makes lots of references to performing in drawing rooms and using visitor cards for effects and things of that nature which are now obsolete.
Of course, this is considered a classic in its field and it takes time to become a classic so all is forgiven.
In this one book I learned so much about so much!
A fun read.
This is a secret kind of book. I enjoyed reading about the things within because it gave me some interesting ideas and inspiration. Overall, this book is good because of Corinda's voice. He is both to the point (which is something often evaded in modern day effects) and quite funny. There are moments, for example, where he tells you to keep the attention off certain things and not "wave it around like a flag on coronation day," - he is witty and engaging and this book is certainly comprehensive.
Like an old fashioned builders yard this book has enough information laying around in it to build a dozen houses in different styles. This book may not appeal to non magicians, but for those wanting to know about the art of mentalism this is still a great place to start. As once you start to learn you will realise the true value of what is contained within.
Absolutely fascinating book for whoever want to step inside mentalism world. Any basic material and knowledge provide in this book. And i think most professional still use trick from this book for their shows.
Okay, so the assessment I got of this book from a practicing mentalist was pretty correct: it's quite dated, and it's very much trickery based as opposed to NLP based. That being said, I learned a lot from reading it, and I think it was a very valuable starting point.
Many of these classic illusions can easily be adapted and updated to fit modern audiences. I would suggest that anyone involved in paranormal research (ESP, psychics, etc.) read this book before jumping to any conclusions.
mnnm
The bible of mentalism. A must have if you want to learn the basics of mentalism.
Hard read, but very worth the effort.
astig
good
