https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1355242.The_Rise_of_Universities
Excellent quick overview of a question almost no one, applying to or attending an American university, ever stops to ask themselves: where do these institutions and all their forms and customs come from in the first place?
Higher education as we think of it was not an invention of Greece or Rome, but of medieval Europe.
Three lectures-now-chapters -- and earlier education was almost entirely lecture-based -- cover "The Earliest Universities", "The Medieval Professor", and "The Medieval Student".
Some of what is covered seems alien and wonderfully strange, some startlingly familiar and modern.
(Student housing!
Daughter of a professor, albeit not medieval; again considering a fish vs.
A brief but detailed book, on the original universities.
In medieval times.First covering the institutions themselves, then the professors, then the students.The universities frequently pick arbitrary times as the founding, because in reality they kinda grew.
the books and the subjects taught.
The laws students forced on professors, such requiring permission for absence and fining any that didn't draw five students to a lecture as if he had been absent.
The first colleges were simply ways to house the students.
How students wrote begging letters.
(Since the first universities had no buildings, that would be easy.)Lots of stuff.
While not incredibly comprehensive, it does provide an excellent overview of early institutions, allowing the reader to understand why and how modern day institutions are organized and operate they way they do.Despite knowing a good deal about the history of higher education in America, prior to reading this text, I was unaware "that the university of the twentieth century is the lineal descendant of mediaeval Paris and Bologna" (5).
Many concepts that we associate with modern day universities, such as academic freedom, originated with these early institutions.
I found this early history interesting, although Haskins largely just sparked my desire to learn more details about these early educational institutions.
Despeço-me com um trecho do referido prefácio:"O contexto faz do livro, então, um diálogo entre membros de um clã, sobre a origem do mesmo clã; Haskins não ignora esse dado por um só momento, e de fato parece ter planejado suas palestras neste sentido.
A história da universidade medieval é, pois, também uma narrativa sobre a origem do palestrante e dos próprios ouvintes, de sua hierarquia, de seus ritos; trata-se como que de um mito fundador, e o Prof.
"..the moral quality of a university depended on the intensity and seriousness of its intellectual life"
This is a series of lectures converted into a book. Reader be forewarned. The continuity is of the spoken word, not of the written one. Also the author presupposes certain knowledge. It was an interesting look into the rise of the modern collegiate system.
Although written almost a century ago (1923), this is an enjoyable (not dry) overview of the early universities and their founding. Although Pederson is perhaps more comprehensive, Haskins' work is an excellent introduction to the topic.
I bought this for a quarter this morning. The premise was rather promising. Apparently the text was culled from a rasher of lectures delivered in the 1920s. There is a depressing dearth of example or citation. I would've pitched it were it not for the links to Waddell's Wandering Scholars.
Three lectures constitute this explanation of how American universities can find their roots in Medieval European universities. It was written in the 1920s and is still considered a seminal work on the topic. It contained some interesting information about how universities evolved.
Ok
Most of the book describes the early 12th and 13th century Western university, teacher and student.
Before universities, if someone studied under a scholar, they would not be able to show proof of the studies.
The rise of universities was the diploma received as proof of the studies and the general concentration of study.
Over time, and due to the demands of the students, the teachers become professionalized and needed a sort of license to teach.
Also over time, universities became guilds for scholars and students became more a necessary cost.
The book also misses what seem to be universities, at least by definition, in China at earlier times.
At times interesting. At times I'd catch myself having read a few pages but not remembering a thing I read because I had zoned out.
Excellent short book comprising of three lectures on medieval universities, covering the institutional origins, instructional model and student life. Centred primarily on Bologna and Paris, though other European universities make appearances from time to time, it is a thematic study rather than institutional history. The writing shows its age though - somewhat long winded and rhetorical as was common in the 1920s when these lectures were delivered - but that may be part of the charm of this book.
Haskins asks the question "what are the roots of the modern university?" and finds its roots in the Middle Ages (he was a medievalist after all). He then traces the humble beginnings of these early institutions with their itinerant professors and their rowdy students (one unfortunate quarrel ended when a student entered a lecture with a cutlass and killed his colleague--good times). If I'm not mistaken this is one of the very early studies on the Medieval University.
Important little book. In three acts. Traces the origin of an institution, finds (without realising it) the origin of Europe as a concept or as an idea, the precursor of modernism, democracy and human rights - and other fanciful ideas.
An excellent overview of medieval universities
This short book, given as a series of Lectures at Brown in 1923, is filled with flash, dash and panache. They don't make academics like Haskins today and more's the pity.
I had to read this in college for a medieval history course. Very interesting!
Good information, far too western centric.
