https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48465.3_by_Flannery_O_Connor
Yes, the novel is sometimes comic, but the story ends so darkly that I think it could only be perceived as positive by a Christian whose belief in Jesus's divinity is so important that it invalidates the value of life, compassion, and mortal kindness.I decided to read and reread this anthology now because I believe Flannery O'Connor's work sets a precedent for my own.
2/5 StarsThis is going to be an extremely short "review," only because this was read in class, and I didn't enjoy it. What I did, however, appreciate was O'Connor's descriptive writing and well-rounded story-lines. But nothing else was phenomenal, and frankly, it was quite boring to read through.Not my type of literature.
Just as Faulkner, Joyce, and Woolf should be read by serious writers in order to explore both their style and the ways in which they bend and break the rules of language, so too should O'Connor be studied for the ways in which she extrapolates character in the simplest of beliefs.
Though in The Violent Bear it Away it gets a bit tiresome at in the first 30 pages, the rest of the two main novels in this collection are to be studied and admired for their scope.The Signet edition of O'Connor's work is a steal.
Flannery O’Connor’s writing feels like it was originally written in Russian but translated into English by Constance Garnett.
Everything That Rises Must Converge: Southern sketches, mostly deformed, incapable intellectual men living with their mothers while fighting with a variety of ghosts (not really ghosts, but religious obsession, racism, etc.) and losing grotesquely.
General: Interesting that O’Connor writes so many pathetic male protagonists.
But it’s not just them, everyone is deformed by their obsessions.
A hard reminder of how deep savage and primitive racism runs when it’s source of renewal is insecurity and fear.
I really enjoyed these short stories by O'Connor.
She really knew how to tell a story, to develop character, and to prove a point in a short amount of time.
I loved reading this part of the book.
The novels are good, but I gave the book 4 stars for the third part of the collection.
As much as I love O'Connor, reading her in short story form is all I can handle.
I recommend this book if you can handle religious debates, matricide, heart attacks, strokes, insanity, and so much more.
It's worth it for the pure pleasure of reading O'Connor's prose.
Seriously -- wow! O'Connor is fabulous. I've read her short stories before, you know since high school and through college and all of that, and they were good then, too. This time, though, reading for pleasure for the third or fourth time, I was amazed. Such well-written stories and short novels, beautiful, funny, sinister, always with some surprising twist. Even when I know what'll happen it's surprising. An author I love more and will have to return to again and again.
There were good moments and bad moments in this collection of stories. Some were a bit humourous and others made you want to take a bath after reading them. I liked O'Connor's writing style and how she conveyed it. One of my favourite lines from the whole collection was, "They wear pants". That line still makes me laugh. Search it out and you will see what I mean. This was a Southern Gothic collection that shouldn't be missed.
This was without a doubt the absolute worst book to bring on a beach vacation. I got through Wise Blood and then abandoned it with the pile of fiction books on the nightstand in the hotel room. Chris wondered if that was cruel in case someone else picked it up and had the same experience.
I skipped through that pesky, boring intro and got right to the story(Wise Blood) reminds me of "The Artificial Nigger" a bit.Moving along despite all the snow and shoveling...
- Tough to rate but I'll give it a 3.5 which rounds down to 3*...- We had one of those orange peanut brittle surprise cans when I was a kid!- Everybody disrespects Enoch, the human pile of dog poop!- Hazel = another Thomas More = hairshirted and humourless(and a killer)...Now into "And the Violent Bear It Away," which seems pretty similar so far to "Wise Blood" - more Southern religious craziness...
All of her stories seem to be fundamentally about lack, and a person who is spiritually inclined could easily read them as a constant strain toward the meaning or fulfillment that can come from knowing God. However, the non-religious could just as easily see them as compelling and perceptive character studies.
O'Connor seems to really shine in the format of the short story, where she can examine characters' "fatal flaws" close up and in defining moments, while not forcing us to stay with them until we feel totally suffocated by their inner darknesses.
Flannery O'Conner is a well-recognized name in American literature and I really don't like her work.She is not alone in that- there are several authors whose work is regarded as literature but I have no idea why.
(Others are great and I totally see why- To Kill a Mockingbird springs to mind.)Supposedly Flannery captures the humor and drama of the South, but if so, I should stay out of the South.
I found her characters either grotesque, hypocritical, cruel, selfish or violent- to say nothing of being unbelievable at times.
The humor only came through very occasionally for me and usually I found the characters (and therefore the story) to be ugly and unpleasant.
Three stars for Flannery O'Connor?
This was actually the second time I've read "Wise Blood" and I love it.
"The Violent Bear it Away," however, left me disappointed.
I was really, really into the story up until the last couple of chapters, and then, suddenly, the entire thing turned completely predictable, I knew exactly what was going to happen; furthermore, she totally copped out on a really, really cheap device in the end.
All in all, though, Flannery generally rules.
I would definitely recommend reading this, but I'm still reeling from the shock of the crappy end of "The Violent..."
As much as I appreciate Flannery O'Connor's stories for their literary merit, I cannot like them.
Her obvious dislike of pride or smugness leads to their inevitable demise, in the best of grotesque ways (that's right, I'm talkig about you "Greenleaf").
I think my professor said it best when she asked us, "Why is it worse to wear a gorilla suit than to run over a man in your car?" ("Wise Blood" not so wise :)).
If anything, her stories force you to think about conventional traditions and make you realize that you are never safe, if that's a philosophy that appeals to you.

I read two of the novels in this compilation; The Violent Bear it Away and Wise Blood. Confusing, sinister and riveting, O'Connor's writing is surreal, with complex story lines where you have to re-read certain passages to determine whether the action is a dream or is actual. Characters are genuine and strange; her writing is superb.
I am sorry but the infusion of religion into all of Flannery O'Connor's writing is more than I can manage at this point in my secular humanist life. Her humor does reach me at times but not enough to keep me going.
A style of writing--no, of literature all her own. This set of three of her stories is a good introduction to her world.
Action and tragedy from the very start.To laugh at it…it is a very short story…only some 20 (?) pages long, so we need to get going to finish early.Like the other Flannery O’Connor stories, this one is an example of superb writing, creative descriptions of people, nature, the weather and situations.
The boy is innocent, except for suicide, which is damned by the church, but the young man pays for his father’s mortal sin of not only disbelieving, but somehow mocking God. I say this might be one way to look at it, perhaps the wrong one.In Why Do The Heathen Rage, Mary Maud is a school teacher and the writer notices everything about her.
The main character is griping and ultimately the story resolves in that perfect O'Connor Southern Gothic way.The Violent Beat It Away - Also very good, but perhaps a little slow at parts.
And many fruitfully aligned a resolute "I know what's right" in the face of a looming "you must decide" with southerners struggling against changing social and cultural norms.I read the three in the order of my book (WB, TVBIA, ETRMC), but I almost think it might be better to read the short stories first, to get a feel for O'Connor's world and then move to the novellas.
The characters in the novels come alive in a way that short stories cannot accomplish, and you find yourself feeling as if you are the main character, making choices when the character faces a crossroads that you hope the character will also make, grieving for his sins, hoping for his redemption.Perhaps my favorite thing is the way O'Connor, though she was Catholic, honors Southern Protestant old-time religion as being true in a way that modern, sophisticated, New England/European psychology is not.
Wise Blood: you don't get any sense of what happened to the main character during the war to turn him so strongly against religion, but that's my only real complaint.
I won't spoil it, but I was very emotionally satisfied with how O'Connor wrapped it up.The Violent Bear It Away: Not that dissimilar to Wise Blood.
I don't feel like it needs a separate review, since the tone is the same.Everything That Rises Must Converge: Short stories.
Did O'Connor not like her own family?
This book is a set of three short stories.Wise Blood~~~~~~~~~~When I read this in college it was way over my head (or, more likely, at the time my head was too full of other nonsense to take it all in).
Not a word is wasted and as you pay attention you quickly realize it's not a story as much as a treatise on people and their notions about life, faith and the way things are.The characters are grotesque:"Mrs. Watts was sitting alone in a white iron bed, cutting her toenails with a large pair of scissors.
As our discussion progresses, the more I appreciate her works for she have a different style from others.
It is not just an ordinary literary piece but she put details as something just to say something but it is so rich that there are many reasons behind the details she presented such as colors, characters, nature and others.
There is no absolute character, there is no prejudice in her characters.Her works may always have some religious concept and somehow eerie atmosphere but all in all, it was beautiful and different on its own.
She also somehow puts evil as even a positive attribute for a good character to realize the truth.
Wise Blood: One of only two entries that I am aware of in the genre of darkly comic, grotesque Christian novels, and the superior one, as far as I'm concerned (the other being the still-interesting Miss Lonelyhearts by Nathanael West).
O'Connor doesn't really tip her hat as to which side she comes down on in the actual text (though she was outspoken in defense of faith elsewhere) and the book can easily be read as vindicating either Hazel's skepticism or his faith, though it takes a cynical reading of the ending to do so.
Favorite quotes:“His grandfather had been a circuit preacher, a waspish old man who had ridden over 
Faulkner and other Southern Gothic writers--yes.
Brutal, sharp, sinister, even depressing writing--yes.
I'm from well above the Mason-Dixon (and now far west of it) where it isn't so rare to find versions of her characters in poor, rural, conservative areas, so I can't buy that her heavy-handedness is simply some Southern thing that she's getting across.
While her writing technically is good and she's had a great influence on the American short story, she's just not my thing.
I like less of a sneer and far more mercy with my fiction.After getting through Wise Blood and Everything That Rises Must Converge, I decided I'd had enough.

10/4/11: I carted this book around for years and just never gotten around to reading it. So far I've read the introduction, The Violent Bear It Away, and a few of the short stories, but it's just so damn depressing that I don't feel up to spending what reading time I have right now on stories that make me want to kill myself, no matter how brilliantly they're written (and they are written brilliantly, of course, it's O'Connor). I'm not saying that I'm definitely giving up on reading this, but I'm definitely not going to finish it any time soon.
I only read Wise Blood at this time, but I thoroughly enjoyed it. A darkly comic book, there's enough repetitiveness of theme in this novel to take and run wild with: religion, sac-religion, bestiality and use of color. This whole book is a vivid, disturbing portrait of many, many things, enough to keep one busy for quite some time. Before Wise Blood the only other work by O'Connor I had read was "A Good Man is Hard to Find," which anyone who has ever taken a 20th century American Literature class has read. I fully intend to read further.
Just read Wise Blood for the first time. I've always loved Flannery's short stories and novellas, and despite Eric Peter's song I never have gotten around to reading this novel until now. Oh, my. Gruesome, bare-faced sin and a picture of Grace with a capital G. Characters that simultaneously repulse and delight with their turns of phrase, brought to life by O'Connor's vivid metaphors and allusions, and her Christ-haunted narrative. I need Wise Blood in hardback. Don't be like me -- read this sooner rather than later.
