https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31072.Under_the_Volcano
Purchase a large bottle of tequila and start walking from Ernest Hemingway's house to Vladimir Nabokov's house.
As you're walking, take a drink for the sake of squandered love.
Then take one for isolation.
Take one drink for war, and two for peace.
Take one for world-weariness.
Take one for betrayal.
Take a big one for fear.
And take one long drink, just for the sake of it.If you do this right, you will end up passed out in a ditch somewhere between Hemingway and Nabokov, and you will have a fair idea of what 'Under the Volcano' is like.
Every day is the Day of the Dead around the globe for millions of alcoholics drinking under their personal volcano.A reader of Lowry’s novel will find enough references, both direct and indirect, to Dante, Faust and Lost Eden as well as Christ, Don Quixote and Oedipus, but, from my reading, all of these allusions and suggestions, signs and symbols, codes and enigmas, are filtered through the alembic of Consul Geoffrey Firmin’s liquor glass, bestowing a particular flair to the well-worn citation “through a glass darkly,” words depicting our less than omniscient manner of seeing and understanding.To conclude on an up note, one of my favorite scenes is when Geoffrey, his former wife Yvonne and his half-brother Hugh attend a bullfight.
Με τύλιξε μια ψυχρή,αργή μάζα εσωτερικών συγκρούσεων και παραίτησης χωρίς καμία εννοιολογική διαδοχή πέρα απο μια μεθυσμένη και χορταστική αποτυχία στη ζωή και το θάνατο του πρωταγωνιστή.
Δεν προσπαθεί να γιατρέψει τις πληγές του, παλεύει να τις ματώσει ακόμη πιο πολύ και είναι αυτό ακριβώς που μεταφέρει στον αναγνώστη, η απόγνωση και η παρακμή μιας ολόκληρης ζωής που περιγράφονται και μάχονται για κατανόηση μέσα στην πλοκή του βιβλίου λαμβάνοντας ως χρονική κάλυψη το τελευταίο εικοσιτετράωρο της ζωής του.
Απέτυχα παταγωδώς να συλλάβω την ενόρμηση του Λόουρυ σαν μια εκπρόσωπο, εξουσιοδοτημένη με ένα κάποιο μήνυμα απο έναν αποστολέα για έναν αποδέκτη.
At that confused cusp in time between teen aged idealism and adult cynicism, I had travelled to Cuernavaca in pursuit of my first love whose father had moved his family there - I was sure at the time, but mistakenly, in order to ensure his oldest daughter did not succumb to my inept entreaties.
Finally, it was clear to me that Under the Volcano was referencing many things about which I had not the slightest clue - people, places, and events (not to mention vocabulary and cognate puns) which Lowry knew about and I didn’t were integral to his story.
Albert Finney in the 1984 film.Malcolm Lowry may be one of the best examples of the writer who has one (and only one, so far as we can tell) great novel in him.
What I remember best about it is the frighteningly realistic way in which Lowry conveys that the Consul, Geoffrey Firmin, is sickeningly drunk almost constantly, from his first drink in the morning until passing out at night.
(view spoiler)[I swear I haven’t done this, but if you Google something like “greatest novels of the twentieth century", and then examine lists which might come up, I’ll bet you a drink (what else) that Under the Volcano is on most of them.
A true literary masterpiece. This is minimalistic in scope but brilliantly complex and multi-layered in detail. The exceptional prose is interspersed with flashes of stream of consciousness and eclectic, almost poetic imagery. The multiple references to Conrad were interesting, almost the flip side of Heart of Darkness as Lowry describes the inevitable collapse of a man and in metaphor, civilization.
Labyrinth of streets, wild, lush tropical vegetation impudently encroaching everywhere, seizing the garden and the residence of Consul; volcanoes majestically tower over the city hiding every moment in the clouds, humidity and heat suffocating everything around.
And though we know the time and place of action, in dialogues and flashbacks with Consul, Hugh and Yvonne, we wander around the world, traversing countries and cultures, their history, myths and poetry.The city spread out at the foot of two volcanoes, streets and buildings remembering better times, not only the Consul's but much earlier, the Spanish' explorers.
The setting is magnificent, but certainly not unalike Henry Miller with his snooze-inducing masterpiece impostor “Tropic of Cancer,” the uglification of Mexico is as abhorrent & ridiculous as the descriptions of rancid Paris in “Tropic.” There is not one single sentence clever enough, beautiful enough, even at all special or pretending to be special.
This is that overly-typical story of the crazy gringo (well, a displaced British Consul, actually) getting “tight” on a Mexican holiday, the unintentionally un-symbolic Day of the Dead, boozing on mescal and myriad other liquors which appear before him like mirages in the wild.
I'm experiencing an incredible run of great reads and discovering writers who I want to read more of but Malcom Lowry's book stands out as the most memorable - its imagery and symbolism are imprinted in my mind.It made an impression early on.
As the first chapter draws to a close; as the initial strokes of scene setting are made, with our drunken protagonist Geoffrey Firmin, staggering through the Mexican streets, past colourful characters, all preparing for the Day of The Dead ceremonies, the closing passage descends down into a insular character observation, beautifully poetic in its foreshadowing:
The book's title is an example of the fine use of metaphor.
Gass's essay collection Life Sentences and the chapter on metaphor certainly primed me for this novel.
This seemed so promising (self-destruction! love triangles! Mexico!), but after about 150 pages I couldn't hack it. Certainly the most committed stream-of-consciousness study of alcoholism I've ever failed at reading, but in the end I just decided to not become an alcoholic and stopped reading.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Buddhist Monk: "Under the Volcano" by Malcolm Lowry(Original Review, 1981-03-15)“The Consul reached forward and absentmindedly managed a sip of whisky; the voice might have been either of his familiars or - Hullo, good morning.
The instant the Consul saw the thing he knew it an hallucination and he sat, quite calmly now, waiting for the object shaped like a dead man and which seemed to be lying flat on its back by his swimming pool, with a large sombrero over its face, to go away.
“A little self-knowledge is a dangerous thing.”“Far too soon it had begun to seem too much of a triumph, it had been too good, too horribly unimaginable to lose, impossible finally to bear: it was as if it had become itself its own foreboding that it could not last[…]”“What is it Goethe says about the horse?” he said.
For him life is always just around the corner, in the form of another drink at a new bar.
His primary relationship is not with Yvonne, his estranged wife, but with alcohol.There are oceans of allusions and references here; the book is packed with them.
However the allusions that interest me relate to John Bunyan, I was brought up with Bunyan; “Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners” has an epigraph and it has been pointed out that Under the Volcano is a sort of Pilgrims Progress in reverse; although there is a redemptive theme.
Books have been written about all this and many academic essays produced.It seemed to me that disintegration was one of the underlying themes; the world is beginning to disintegrate.
And that was my introduction to All Soul's Day. How much I wished that we had come to Oaxaca earlier during Dias de los Muertos, a similar holiday, but then I would have missed meeting this family and sharing All Soul's Day with them.Michael also told us about the movie, "Under the Volcano," saying that it was filmed in Mexico, it was also a book, and the author used to live in Oaxaca.
"No," I replied, "It was marvelous, the scenery was wonderful, and the story was captivating." I don't know what I really said outside of not thinking that it was depressing, but I like what I said just now.Anyway, the book was about the last twelve hours in the life of the Consul, a man who was an alcoholic.
Lowry could not perform the vital surgery of separating himself from his characters. He suspected at times that he was not a writer so much as being written, and with panic he realized that self-identity was as elusive as ever.-Conrad Knickerbocker You could state this novel was amazing. You could name it false. You could call this novel a giant of Modernism. You could pass it off as the rambling obscurities of a overeducated white guy with too much money in pocket and too lengthy a time on his
You could wonder at the explications of historical context or frown at it for being too 'political', depending on whether your methodologies for coping with reality lie in grasping explication or willful ignorance.I thought to compose an ode to this thin-skinned and oh so brave piece of work, one that considered 'vital' the need to cloak oneself in shrouds of objective cleverness writing from the scheme of rote, but recognized the conventions as being too limited.
Of all the ambiguities in the book left to the reader to resolve is why Firmin drinks and why he can’t stop drinking and just live in the world and love Yvonne.
This is life!But who could agree with someone who was so certain you were going to be sober the day after tomorrow?How alike are the groans of love, to those of the dying.What is man but a little soul holding up a corpse?And this is how I sometimes think of myself, as a great explorer who has discovered some extraordinary land from which he can never return to give his knowledge to the world: but the name of this land is hell.I leave you with one particular rant around a question that goes to the moral heart of human choice and civilization, prompted by a pondering if they couldn’t have done more for the dying peasant in the road: ‘Why should we have done anything to save his life?
Η Πτώση ενέχει πάντα τραγική διάσταση, όταν αποτελεί πράξη προαναγγελθείσα και αδήριτη. Ο ήρωας του "Κάτω από το Ηφαίστειο" εγκλωβίζεται στη σπείρα του αφανισμού, αναζητώντας τη λύτρωση στη λήθη του ποτού και της ανυπαρξίας. Καμία παρηγοριά στα ανθρώπινα, στην αγάπη, στους εορτασμούς της Ημέρας των Νεκρών που αποτελεί το σκηνικό της Πτώσης. Παραληρηματική γραφή ενίοτε, βουτηγμένη στις αναθυμιάσεις του αλκοόλ και μια ηδονική σκιαγράφηση του κενού που καλεί ανέλπιδα εκείνους -τους διαλεχτούς της θλίψης-που έθρεψαν τους δαίμονές τους με τις προσδοκίες και τις διαψεύσεις τους.
Such molten rivers are capable of burning to cinders those trying to penetrate the drunken mesh and reach the sober person trapped underneath; of seizing control of the alcoholic's mind and letting loose all of the primal demons bent on destruction and irrationality that gestate in the fires of the soul's own hell.British consul Geoffrey Firmin is on the verge of this very eruption - exiled to the lush no-where of Mexico, spending his days drinking wherever he finds himself, amongst Mexican amigos who hopelessly try to steer him towards a drier future, and longing for the return of his ex-wife, Yvonne; a reunion he both desires and dreads, as he knows all too well the true destruction that will ensue from such a piebald fantasy.
Place HolderI read this in about 1974.It is one of my favourite books ever, though I haven't read it
But if the while I think on thee, dear friend,All losses are restor'd and sorrows end." –William Shakespeare, Sonnet 30.The Mexican Day of the Dead is the perfect setting for this elegiac tale - both a remembrance and a dirge to one of the most poignant characters in modernist fiction– the Consul, Geoffrey Firmin.The ending fills you with an unmistakable sadness and that is 'cause despite all evidence to the contrary, you were hoping for a miracle - that the tale of the Consul and Yvonne would somehow find a completion.Like Laruelle, we are left wondering, in the aftermath of the tragedy, of what went wrong & why it went wrong.There are no easy answers of course - by the time,  Under the Volcano opens, the Consul is already like a runaway train heading for a spectacular crash.* * *I've discussed this book here, in this group read:http://www.goodreads.com/topic/group_...
Ah, Malcolm Lowry, you were a batshit crazy drunken nut of a novelist at the right time to be so: the mid-20th century -- a time of Jackson Pollock and atonal music and cut-up literary narrative and horrible black box skyscrapers; a time of an artistic aesthetic that, thank God, is dead -- and your obsessively overdescriptive novel in which even the non-drunk characters spout non-sequiturs showed your critically fashionable Joycean penchant for the stream of conscious and ample obscurantist references that send English majors into raptures that are usually followed by unfortunate attempts at symbolic analysis that make even less sense than the novel they are analyzing.
As a somewhat autobiographical story with alchoholism at its core, and told with frequent streams of consciousness, it should come as no surprise that silence is a virtue largely ignored, however, that's not to describe a work where the manic need to share each detail, or to illuminate the multiple and varied meanings are apparent on every page, when the opposite is very much the case, but that the reader is drowned in words, the page is consumed by words, by twists and turns of mind, by erratic juxtapositions, by declarations of love and sudden melodramatic loss, by literary allusions and quasi religious symbolism.
Κι ωστόσο ήταν σαν η μοίρα να είχε σταματήσει την ηλικία του σε κάποια άγνωστη στιγμή του παρελθόντος, όταν ο επίμονος αντικειμενικός εαυτός του, έχοντας βαρεθεί πια να στέκεται και να παρακολουθεί το γκρέμισμά του, τον είχε εγκαταλείψει σιωπηλά, σαν ένα πλοίο που το σκάει κρυφά απ'  το λιμάνι μέσα στη νύχτα. Μεξικό, Día de Muertos, 1938, και μολονότι ο αναγνώστης γνωρίζει το χρόνο και τον τόπο δράσης, μέσα από τους διαλόγους ή τις αναλήψεις, ουσιαστικά περιπλανιέται διασχίζοντας χώρες και κουλ
Το μυθιστόρημα ενδέχεται να μοιάζει μινιμαλιστικό ως προς την πλοκή και τη δομή του, 12 κεφάλαια που αντιστοιχούν σε 12 ώρες στη ζωή του πρωταγωνιστή, καταλήγει όμως εξαιρετικά πολυεπίπεδο, με τη δυσκολία του να ξεκινά, όχι όμως να εξαντλείται, στην τραγική και χαοτική αφήγηση, τη γεμάτη αναμνήσεις, μονολόγους, τύψεις, λέξεις που ρέουν, που φτάνουν ως τα βάθη της ύπαρξής μας.
Και η ίδια η γη, που γυρίζει πάντα γύρω από τον άξονά της και περιστρέφεται γύρω από τον ήλιο κι ο ήλιος που γυρίζει γύρω από το φωτεινό τροχό του γαλαξία του, οι άπειροι, αμέτρητοι διαμαντοστολισμένοι τροχοί των άπειρων, αμέτρητων γαλαξιών που γυρίζουν, γυρίζουν μεγαλόπρεπα στο άπειρο, στην αιωνιότητα, που από μέσα τους περνάει όλη η ζωή, όλα αυτά, πολλά χρόνια μετά το θάνατο της Υβόν [...]
And one thing that especially ruined the entire experience for me and that is Lowry's writing style.
Taking the story of a drunk and not committing egregious sins of the stereotypical drunken tale is not an easy task and Lowry really gives us a character with some serious meat to him.
And, well, Lowry has great characters - if you can only find them buried underneath all those freakin' words.Lowry does do some interesting things where he gets you to really experience the drunken stupor of the main character.

Nunca pensei que fosse me deparar com uma leitura tão difícil e desgastante. Este livro não é para leitores lights . É uma leitura que exige muita atenção e apego.Basicamente conta a história de Um cônsul Inglês que vive no México que se afunda no vício da bebida e é visitado por sua ex esposa que tenta salva-lo desse caminho sem volta.O livro todo é envolto no misticismo dessa cidade Mexicana com todas as suas tradições e festas sob o olhar atento de dois vulcões um ativo e outro já morto.Um livro trabalhoso de se ler ,mas recompensador....
His beloved wife has divorced him, but now returns to see if anything can be salvaged of their relationship, which is the hope of the book, and part of its tragedy.Lowry's own alcoholism was prodigious, but his novelistic talent was even moreso, and over the period of the ten years he wrote and rewrote Under the Volcano--submitting it for publication every few years, only to have it widely rejected, taking it back, working further--resulted in one of the masterpieces of the twentieth century.
Then thirty pages later, he says, 'Oaxaca meant divorce.' After that, every time Oaxaca comes up, there's more and more meaning attached to it, the motif grows and becomes more complex and interlocks with other aspects of the book.
In fact, the whole book is a Turing test, and is one of my favorite novels of all time.
Under the VolcanoI read the Picador Classics edition (1967) with an introduction by Stephen Spender. Unusually, I read the introduction first, then again after reading the novel, which I read in three sittings. I like Spender, and relate to his reading of the book. Despite its dual reputations of being difficult and about alcoholism, it is neither. As for difficulty, it’s true that understanding Spanish would be helpful, but the saturated extratextual references to mythology, mysticism, history
Under the VolcanoI read the Picador Classics edition (1967) with an introduction by Stephen Spender.
Alcohol is central of course because the character of the novel is alcoholic, and best read, therefore by an alcoholic – which is most people, for Firmin and his alternatives are merely further advanced into descent and ascent than most which makes his expression approach the ideal moment.
The refusal to accept love is not a failure but an affirmation for love is part of the dreadful entanglement of contingent dual actions of affirmation and immediate denial, and it is this tangle (the novel is thick with imagery of entanglement) which is transcended by final descent into the (literal) abyss.
Towards the nightmarish conclusion of Under the Volcano, Yvonne recognizes that the drinks "lay like swine on her soul." That poetic glimpse into Bacchic darkness is a glimpse of the novel's mastery, It is impossible to distinguish it only as a novel about alcoholism, or, even, a return to the primoridal Eden besieged by History's jackboots.
Under the Volcano is so much more than that.
Each of the principal characters exposes their soul, yet motivations remain dim, much like the fetid cantinas and the dubious mescal.The novel's poetry is electrically animated and emerges from the pages like Promethean firestorms.
Malcolm Lowry’s Under the Volcano is a mad prophet’s dream of rising dangers, a masterpiece of symbolism (the animal imagery, Dia de los Muertos, the Volcanoes), a great intertwining of voices (radio, letters, movie posters, remembrances), an encapsulation of the era’s political thought and literature, a surreal, hypnotic journey into the night, and a breathtakingly beautiful book; a sad, half-demented augury. The last 50 or so pages are especially worth it. One the most chilling last lines I have ever read. I can see echoes of this work in that of Stone, Pynchon, and Fuentes. Great, great novel.
Each had dreams shattered by one circumstance or another, hence this book read like one I would enjoy to the fullest, yet I can honestly say I only enjoyed parts.
I appreciate and enjoyed the language at times, while at others I felt like it was a long-verse poem full of convoluted nonsense (which can be interpreted as 'the point of the book').
I mostly enjoyed reading about the imagery of Popocatépetl and Iztaccíhuatl and of the letters that were written between the Consul and Yvonne.
As said previously, it is appreciated, but I can't give 5 stars to a mostly lauded book if it doesn't connect with me.
Under the Volcano by Malcom Lowry is a riveting literary masterpiece transpiring over a period of twenty-four hours in Quauhnahuac, Mexico beneath the volcanoes, on the Day of the Dead and on the eve of the war in 1938.
They towered up over the jungle, into the lowering sky--massive interests moving up in the background.""The cemetery was swarming with people visible only as their candle flames.
Yet it had not overwhelmed the candle flames.
Some of the mourners were riling off down the hillside."Malcom Lowry was a British novelist and poet.
Lowry's narrative technique is bold: here we have the tale of one half of the last day in the life of a man who is drunk.
The Consul chalks it up to his battle against death or his "battle for the survival of the human consciousness." He views himself as a "little soul holding up a corpse." The Consul tries to make some sense of his life beneath the volcano and its storm clouds amid a fiesta and a grotesque theft by a pelado of bus fare from a dying man.
Confession: It took me three tries to get past the first chapter or so.
You almost have to take it on the faith that things will become clearer and more compelling -- they will!
-- and that the initial chapter is there for a good reason -- it is!
-- though that will only become evident as you finish the novel.
So don't be deterred by the initial steep path, the views from this Volcano are almost unmatched in 20th Century fiction.
It'll reward your patience and careful reading several times over.
Plus it has maybe the best last line in all literature.
The multi-layered structure of the prose contrasts with the further descent of the main character. Terrifying and vivid imagery. A masterfully planned novel of wandering and slouching to oblivion. Definitely should be reread.
È un libro che si abbandona tante volte, e tutte le volte ci si pente di averlo fatto. Iridescente la prosa di Lowry, intreccio ostico ma se vi abbandonate alla corrente di questo "caos cerebrale", il libro vale davvero la pena. "Da quando te ne sei andata, ho volutamente lottato contro l'amore che provo per te. Non ho mai osato sottostarvi. Mi sono aggrappato a ogni radice e a ogni ramo che potesse aiutarmi ad attraversare da solo l'abisso della mia vita ma non posso ingannarmi ancora a lungo".
Por otra parte esta singularidad literaria la considero un mérito del autor ya que muestra los recursos necesarios para crear atmósferas alucinantes y un tanto estrambóticas, tanto es así que uno llega a extraviarse en el tiempo y en el espacio de la narración.
Para un mejor entendimiento y asimilación de esta novela me hubiera gustado estar en un mundo inundado por el alcohol, como lo estuvo durante años su autor el inglés Malcom Lowry (1909-1957), para así poder digerir toda esa poderosa y cósmica narrativa llena de malabares y artificios literarios.
UPDATE: I GIVE UP.The endless walk to the bus station!
The endless portentous references to THE HANDS OF FATE!
GAHHHHHH111111!!!!!!1111!It is taking me a long, long time to read this.Not because it isn't good.
Every time I pick it up I fall into this kind of weird, semi-amazed trance that makes me a.) wish I was drunk, b.) feel slightly drunk, and c.) feel like I haven't had a drink in years and could really use one RIGHT NOW.
In fact, don't even try reading this book unless you are sitting someplace where you can hear yourself think and where thinking is actually encouraged.

– what with us being in this bar here and it – the book – being about a man who likes a drink – too much, I guess you’d say – a man who, if we’re being honest, Carlos, is an alcoholic.
I admire these people; I want to make that clear, you know.’ He couldn’t, either, say whether he was actually talking to the vulture or Carlos himself.
‘The world, Carlos, the word of Under the Volcano, by which I mean the 1930’s, of course, but our world too, amigo, is seemingly bent of destruction, is perhaps coming to an end, what with the war, Hitler’s war, a world war around the corner, and other wars too, already in progress, civil war in Spain, for example.
It is, however, an excellent book with prose so luscious I sometimes felt as drunk as the chronically inebriated Consul.
The book then begins properly, a year earlier, on The Day of the Dead.
Geoffrey is busy drinking himself to death when his ex-wife Yvonne shows up wanting to re-unite and his half-brother, Hugh (who possibly had an affair with Yvonne who was unfaithful at least one other time), has also flown down for a visit.The book is about Geoff's complicated relationship with Yvonne.
this book must be read more than once to understand it.
the first time, the reader struggles through the alcohol, the hurt and mexico.
the second time, the reader understands the alcohol, the hurt, and mexico.
the third time, the reader (me) falls into the book, stays there and appreciates what lowry did as a writer, he let go of everything, understood that he is in no way like the writers of his time (joyce...etc.) and he just writes.
His characters are completely flawed and are in no way looking for redemption...
i am reading it for a fourth time and enjoying every sentence of it.
"OS BÊBADOSO ruído da morte está neste bar desolado Onde a tranquilidade se senta inclinada sobre a sua oração E a música abriga o sonho do amante Mas quando moeda alguma compra este fundo desespero Nesta casa tão solitária E de todos os destinos o mais solitário Onde nenhuma música eléctrica destrói o bater Dos corações duas vezes quebrados mas agora reunidos Pelo cirurgião da paz no peróneo da desgraça Penetra mais profundamente do que os trompetes O movimento da mente que aí faz a sua teia Onde as desordens são simples como o túmulo E a aranha da vida se senta, dormindo."Malcolm Lowry(Max Ernst, "Cocktail Drinker", 1945)
"A Drunk, His Wife, and his Brother Walk Into a Bar" or "Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight..."First thing: I read quite a few of the reviews on here after finishing and I have to say that one thing seems to be missing from most: Under the Volcano isn't credited enough for being, at times, damned funny.
Yes, it is undoubtedly a tragic of epic proportions but, like life, sometimes that very same tragedy produces unforeseen glimpses into the absurdity of capital-L Life (something the Consul is all too ready to point out).Second thing: If you only get that this book is about alcoholism, you're only glimpsing the surface.
Despite the fact that Under the Volcano has earned enough respect to be considered one of the greatest novels of the twentieth century, it is still a dubious distinction among many critics.
There are so many aspects of Under the Volcano that nod directly to the high modernist tradition that Lowry's novel occasionally reads like a zealous sort of homage to its predecessors.
After all, Under the Volcano is essentially a projected expression of Lowry's own suffering.
My lack of knowledge of the Spanish Civil War makes me sort of less than capable of saying anything too profound about this book.
