https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357399.Red_River_Vol_1
An extremely silly schoolgirl is magically transported from modern Japan to ancient Anatolia, where an evil queen wants to sacrifice her and a playboy prince wants to get frisky with her. (Neither happens; this book is appropriate for a younger audience.) Many Hittites were blonde, apparently. Especially the wonton ones.
Loved this manga.
One of the best I eve read, 90+ Chapters, it took me a few months to complete it cause I could only read it from the net, since they weren't selling it where I could buy it, I so plan to buy the series when I can.
I've read this over and over again, probably a good 10 times.
I like to read it after a couple of months, to try and forget some it and then hopefully be shocked by some of the plot points, but it never works, I love it way too much and just know it so well.
Read until volume 16, then got bored and parked it for a year or two.
Of course, this tale can't compare in complexity or character development to some other series of its type (eg Fushigi), but it's entertaining and the main character, Yuri, is NOWHERE near as annoying as shoujo main characters tend to be (eg Miaka).
She redeems her teenage angst and occasional bouts of wimpiness with plenty of energy, gumption, and hard work, which eventually endears her to the reader (and also to Kail, the crown prince she eventually falls in love with...of course).
I liked this series because it tries pretty hard to incorporate historical elements about the Hittites and Egyptians...and, yes, because it's (overall) a feel-good love story.I can't believe I just reviewed manga-graphic novels...
This is a love story at its core, but it is also a coming of age story, a story about a king finding a true queen and then not letting her go, about a girl adapting her life to the life of the man she loves and the sacrifices she makes for him, made all the more important because he never asks for them.
It is the story of a modern Japanese girl who is transported there by a spell to be a sacrifice, and who against all odds survives, with the help of a Prince Kail, one of the men who will die if she is sacrificed.
The unlikely story of Yuri, a Japanese teenager pulled back in time to the 14th century BC by the Tawannana (empress) of the Hittite Empire.
Stuck between wanting to return to her home in Japan, and staying to help the man she loves, Yuri becomes Ishtar the goddess of war and has the romantic adventure of a life-time.This makes it into my top 10 manga (there may be more than 10 in the list, but...
And, such fun when some famous characters from Ancient Anatolia & Egypt are thrown in the mix.I've read it every year (at least once), and the only thing I regret is how much sleep I lose when I'm at it!
Mind you he wasn't the worst offender ever, but its kind of shitty to threaten a girl with "bedding her for real" if she tries to run away (even if you're attempting to keep her idiotic neck safe).
The scenes (in the first couple of books at least) went something like this:Yuri: I must go do this stupid thing!Kail: But its stupid!
I will endanger everyone's life by running off and doing this stupid thing against the Queen who has plotted and schemed to murder me since chapter 1 because of reasons!Kail: Stupid girl!
:runs off to do stupid thing: Oh no!
i mean seriously it took me about a week to finish up the whole series.
the way she illustrated the world it was beautiful drawing.
i like reading history but it doesnt mean i loved it but it also make it very interesting even makes me wanna put down the manga and start to search more info about Hittites and Egyptian empire.
okay let's talk about the characters.
i love the way the main characters portray their love one and another.
i cant believed i really do felt it sucked me into another world.
however, i feel a little disappointed because i feel there are a lot to give such as the modern world that yuri was living.
UGH THIS SHIT IS DAH BEST!I have three manga that I think everyone need to read if you are a shoujo fan.1.
BasaraAre these the shoujo-est mangas?
And that is why people need to read them.Anyway, this one is just so full of drama and angst.
Fair warning: The female character is kinda weak in the beginning.
This is not a book to read if you are looking for a true female fighter.
It is more of a love story with a semi female badass character.
Read it for the love and the drama!!!
More reviews (and no fluff) on the blog http://surrealtalvi.wordpress.com/ Red River is a book very much showing its age and roots: the illustration work is all sparkly eyed characters, elaborate hairstyles and dresses, and a protagonist who has to fight off a horde of guys - a la Rose of Versailles or Glass Slipper. In this case, we have a girl magically stolen from modern (1985) Japan so she can be sacrificed to ensure a queen's power in the ancient Hittite empire. Saved by the handsome princ
Saved by the handsome prince, she has to find a way home but also decide if she can bear to leave her guy behind.Story: Yuri is walking home in Japan after finally getting to kiss the guy she likes - when she is dragged into a puddle of water and ends up in ancient Turkey.
Soon Yuri will become embroiled in murder and mystery as she tries to outwit the queen.The 1990s saw a slew of 'girl out of time' stories: Fushigi Yuugi, From Far Away, and this title, Red River.
I read the entire manga series when I was much younger.
Girl goes back in time, prince falls in love, drama for years and years and years (in our reading in anticipation of the next chapters, while the entire series is about 2 years max...).
I still have 20 something mangas to read to complete the series once more, but I won't feel that same way towards this series.
Reading it through the eyes of an adult kinda ruins it, better left in the past with memories of it.I don,t even feel nostalgic about this re-read...
I better stay away from the Twilight Saga.
I don't go into many serious plot points, so just a mild spoiler warning.**The snobby critic part of me is like: This is a 3 star series, leave it at that.
Only a couple of big inaccuracies come to mind, but for the reader who knows little about the period, it wouldn't be too much of a bother.
But just for reference: while it is true that the Hati, a subsection of the Hittite community, were adept at forging Iron before anyone else in the ancient world.
The main male lead, Kail Mursili, while I really liked him, had a thought pattern that was too modern for someone of the time period.
(Fun shit.)Unfortunately I believe a lot of people read the first few chapters of this and feel it is just like every other "girl gets transported to another world/dimension/time and is hailed as an angel/goddess/savior while being the center of a love triangle/quadrangle/fuckiteveryoneangle" manga in the world.
Pain and heartache and cruelty juxtaposed with beauty and triumph and love.The thing about Red River is that it's everything that things like Fuugishi Yuugi and From Far Away could have been.
Nakia ingin penggal kepala Yuri untuk ambil darahnya --> tapi di tengah2 cerita, tau2 si nenek sihir malah bikin konspirasi kirim Yuri ke medan perang.
Gimane cara ambil darahnye??2.Yuri ga bisa balik ke dunianya karena kolamnya ditimbun --> tetapi kenapa di akhir2 cerita, tau2 si Nakia malah bisa nemu kolam untuk balikin doi?3.Flaw yang amat sangat jelas.
Banyak hal yang tidak sesuai (tentu saja, saya tahu karena baca manga ini sambil mengunjungi Mbah Gugel).
Aku sendiri ga bisa menemukan apa alasan pengarangnya mengangkat Mursili II menjadi tokoh center cerita ini, selain karena memang dialah yang membawa Hattite ke masa keemasannya.Yang jelas, Red River memberi pengetahuan baru untukku, tetapi sangat kusayangkan.
This series was a big guilty-pleasure read for me.
I liked it and read the half of the first book plus two and three in one sitting.
I'm not terribly sure that the names are accurate either, but at least there are no actual Hittites to be potentially offended by the portrayal of their culture.Secondly, it was kind of sexist.
Yuri was always reliant on her boyfriend or prince Kail or Tito to save her posterior.
Luckily, she gets better in the next few books.In other words, think Tiger's Curse except without were-tigers and magic and dumb cultural stereotypes.
Read this instead to save time and brain cells.
Crazy queen needs sacrifice, asks Gods, Gods tell her there's a girl from the 20th century (1995) and the crazy queen can manipulate water and whilst on a date, Yuuri (the modern gal) is sucked into a puddle.Poor girl is confused but what bugged me a bit was she seemed a bit too much of a crybaby.
I don't know, if a handsome guy started making out with me to save my life (and didn't act like a jerk about it) I'd be a little more grateful than running away so that he could my life over again.Yuuri seems to be a bit of a baby, despite her circumstances but I have hope.


I didn't like this book. I thought it was rather boring. I only read it because a friend if mine told me to read it. It is basically about a girl who magically went to ancient Egypt and is stuck there with a evil witch who is on her back to kill her. And the prince is the one who saves her but the real question is will she make it back to her world. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
spend 2 days reading the whole series. I haven't read a period manga in a while so this was a throwback to classic comics with the drawing and all.The series didn't really pick up for me until after the fifth volume but after that I couldn't stop until I finished. now I feel sad and happy that I finished.
I even wanted to write more than one review, but somehow every time I had this idea I didn't know where to stop.
I love reading about storing female characters, and Yuri is just like that!
And how will or characters overcome different problems that will arise on their way to ultimate happiness.I remember I read somewhere that leaders are born, but without special circumstances, they might never nurture their full potential.
I believe anyone should read this story.
I hope you'll find some time to read this fantastic work, I'll be coming down from the ecstasy this story gives me for another couple of days!
i'm never reading manga again i can't believe shes 15 and he keeps trying to bang her i'm out
why yuuri why ? *mild spoilers ahead *ur clothes will come back , and kail sama will help u get back ... ust dnt act brashly ...
Holy guacamole this is dirty (and a tad sexual assault-y). Is this really for teens? IDK man.
This was interesting and I enjoyed it.... though I could have had Yuri cry a little less. It was an unique idea and I want to read the next one
In my opinion, I think things are happening too fast in this volume.
All I know is that Yuri, the heroine, was always friends with Satoshi and according to her, she just "suddenly" falls in love with him.
Love can happen in mysterious ways and it can surprise you sometimes, but I wanted a buildup leading to the kiss.
The way this was drawn out lacks the emotional connection with the characters.
Meaning I want to feel or understand why this character feels this way.
I mean I understand the scenario and situation, I just don't feel the emotions that I'm supposed to feel while reading it.
เปนการตูนเรืองนึงทีรักมาก และตังใจจะตามหาของนักวาดคนนีใหครบแตวาคงยากเพราะวาแตละเรืองของเธอทีออกมาคอนขางนานแลวเรืองลาสุดคือ หัวใจในกรงทอง กีเลมจบไมแนใจเหมือนกันเรืองนีอานมากกวา 10 รอบ กลัวเกามาก 😭นางเอกคือ ยูริ เปนเดก ม.ปลาย ชาวญีปุน เรืองเกิดในปี 1995 กอน ศตวรรษที 21 นิดหนอย เธอถูกดึงผานทางนำไปยังอาณาจักรฮัตตูซาสมัยกอนคริสตศักราช มันตรงกับชวงทีฟาโรหตุตันคาเมน ยุวกษัตริยครองราชยพอดีเหตุผลทีโดนดึงมาเพราะ ราชินีแหงอาณาจักรตองการใชเลือดยูริทำคุณไสยใสองคชายคนอืนๆ เพือใหลูกตัวเองครองราชยแตวาเตาชายองคท
เป็นการ์ตูนเรื่องนึงที่รักมาก และตั้งใจจะตามหาของนักวาดคนนี้ให้ครบแต่ว่าคงยากเพราะว่าแต่ละเรื่องของเธอที่ออกมาค่อนข้างนานแล้วเรื่องล่าสุดคือ หัวใจในกรงทอง กี่เล่มจบไม่แน่ใจเหมือนกันเรื่องนี้อ่านมากกว่า 10 รอบ กลัวเก่ามาก 😭นางเอกคือ ยูริ เป็นเด็ก ม.ปลาย ชาวญี่ปุ่น เรื่องเกิดในปี 1995 ก่อน ศตวรรษที่ 21 นิดหน่อย เธอถูกดึงผ่านทางน้ำไปยังอาณาจักรฮัตตูซาสมัยก่อนคริสต์ศักราช มันตรงกับช่วงที่ฟาโรห์ตุตันคาเมน ยุวกษัตริย์ครองราชย์พอดีเหตุผลที่โดนดึงมาเพราะ ราชินีแห่งอาณาจักรต้องการใช้เลือดยูริทำคุณไสยใส่องค์ชายคนอื่นๆ เพื่อให้ลูกตัวเองครองราชย์แต่ว่าเต้าชายองค์ที่ 3 คาอิลเมอร์ซิลิส เข้ามาช่วยเสียก่อน
2nd reading:I recommended this manga to a BookTuber lately, and now got into reading it again :D I still like it! The protagonist is of young age, so the decisions and thoughts are according to her age. As I have been young once, too, I understand her, however it is more difficult to relate now. On the other hand, the manga is quite violent, and it tries to mirror harsh rules of the past. This time round, I want to read the whole series!
I loved this series when I was in high school and purchased almost every volume as it was published. The artwork is phenomenal, the plot is fantastic without being too fantastical and the characters are amazing. I've always particularly enjoyed the fact that Yuri, our time traveling heroine, does not whine overly much, is not obsessed with food and actually adapts pretty well with support she is given.
I seem to read the "Modern-Day Girl Is Forced Back In Time Because She is THE ONE And Embarks On Crazy Dangerous Adventure/Mission/Quest With Some Hot Guys" genre A LOT. And this one has captured my interest. I hope my library will have some of the volumes between 2-6 soon...
