https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14655.Encyclopedia_Brown_Finds_the_Clues
First because many of the "mysteries" in it weren't solve-able unless you knew some obscure facts like that a brick of gold weighs 300 pounds or even less-obscure ones (but likely still unknown to children) like that dogs are color blind.This one also seemed terribly racist.
And then we progress from racism to simple bigotry with the lovely declaration by Police Chief Brown that "Actors aren't like other people....
They don't care about what is right or wrong as long as they get attention.")I did like one of the cases here which was solve-able through simple logic, but the rest of this one was a disappointment.
I recommend Encyclopedia Brown. I was 8 when I first encountered this series. I loved it. It was recommended by a boy that I liked. What I liked about these books is that it taught me how to think before making wild guesses. Each book had several cases which were easy to read and follow for a child. I recommend this to any parent looking for helping their child to use logic and deductive reasoning. Great on how to look at relevant facts at a child's level.
I loved these books when I was a kid, and read everyone I could get my hands on. I've reread a few recently, and while I still think they are fun, they just aren't as great as they used to be. Sigh... They still get 5 stars though, because you can't beat great childhood memories!
Man, these things are like crack.So cruel to me, and yet I can't stop.6 out of 10 this time, and for that I give you only 3 stars. Harrumph.
Encyclopedia Brown Can't say enough good things about this series.  Written for kids but still a great read for adults on a nostalgia kick.
These are fantastic books. I loved them as a kid. You can solve the mysteries along with Encyclopedia Brown, all the clues are in the story. They make you think. Very recommended for young readers
Sure it’s a kids book, but not one you should have your kid read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this series as a child, and now my own boys are reading them for light reading fun. It is a book well-suited for people who enjoy puzzles. It is family friendly, if a bit dated in the tradition of Mayberry RFD. What I especially enjoy about the series is the use of simile throughout the stories. Some are over-the-top odd, but many of the examples display a profound understanding of childhood and rural America.
I think Encyclopedia has a vendetta against poor Bugs Meany, even getting his thug associate Sally to sucker punch him. One star off for giving away a solution in the caption of one of the illustrations. Probably shouldn't do that.
I found Encyclopedia Brown so frustrating when I was a kid because I could never figure out the mysteries. Now they're almost too easy, but I really enjoy them. This book is going into my classroom library.
Not as good as some of the others we've read in the Encyclopedia Brown series, but still a fun read.
3.5 rating. It was fun, but a bit predictable. Albeit, it is a children's book and some were good.
Rereading these with Halle. I'm figuring out many more cases than when I was young :)
The mysteries were pretty hard. I usually don't solve very many.
Cute (occasionally clever) mysteries for me to share with my kids.
Once more, Encyclopedia Brown teaches the reader to think and discover the clues to each mystery! Another entertaining and light book to start the year with!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 1 January 2018.
Five stars for favorite childhood memories - I loved Encyclopedia Brown as a child and am glad to see my children enjoy them, even if they are a little dated!
I didn't really enjoy this book because the mysteries were a little more easy to solve than the other books. Overall, I think this book was pretty good.
I've always enjoyed encyclopedia brown and I hope my nieces will too. my only problem in this one is that he feeds chocolate to a dog. that's a big no no. otherwise it's just as fun as I remember it.
Sobol once again has Encyclopedia accuse people who probably are innocent.
They aren't, because Sobol controls the universe of the books, but the logic is often lacking in thoroughness.
Knowing how the mind works to fill-in information and how recalling a memory allows for the alteration of said memory probably isn't in Leroy's wheelhouse.But I was more disappointed that Sobol was already recycling stories by the third volume in the series.
Love the books hate the formatting.First off I love the Encyclopedia Brown series.
Well the formatting sucks, it sucks worst than a Kirby Vacuum that has been souped up Tool Time Style.
There is no chapter listing for the solutions page either, so it makes it hard to navigate the book.
The worst the way the formatting was done at times you are presented a page that has just a title, or a picture or even just a caption to a picture then you scroll to the next page of text.
I have seen free kindle and home publishing kindle books better formatted than this book.
I was born in the 1980s, and even then the Encyclopedia Brown books were a big hit for kids and helped us learn to think critically!
I would have loved for us to get to spend just a little bit more time in Idaville, and have the chance to learn more about the characters we come to know and love briefly over the span of the cases!
Granted, I know that there are many more books in the Encyclopedia Brown series.
Not only is it fun and good for those who are learning to read, it is also a great series that helps children to read closely, think critically, and imagine outside of the box!
This is another fun edition of short mysteries in the Encyclopedia Brown series of books by Donald J.
We waited more than two years after reading books 1 and 2 in this series and now our girls are older, they are huge fans.
We read all of the mysteries in one day and our girls were fascinated by the solutions.
They aren't necessarily able to figure them out before reading the answers, but they are able to understand the solutions and they like the short mysteries.
We enjoyed reading this book together and we will certainly read more of the books in this series soon!
Leroy Brown, aka Encyclopedia Brown, is Idaville neighborhood’s ten-year-old star detective. With an uncanny knack for trivia, he solves mysteries for the neighborhood kids through his own detective agency. But his dad also happens to be the chief of the Idaville police department, and every night around the dinner table, Encyclopedia helps him solve his most baffling crimes. And with ten confounding mysteries in each book, not only does Encyclopedia have a chance to solve them, but the reader is given all the clues as well. Interactive and chock full of interesting bits of information—it’s classic Encyclopedia Brown!
This is a good story.I enjoy this so much.I wish that it could get more of this book out.My name is Belinda Jiang,Seaton Elementary, and a fifth grade girl.Washington DC.I really love mysterious book.Such as "Goosebump",Creepover,A-Zmysterys, and other story too.This one is one of my favorite book too!!But i dont like TOO scary books.SUch as bloody mary and zombie.Will i like to listen to them but they gave me night mare.LOL!!I love thsi so much.I will write u more later.  sincerly Belinda Jiang
Encyclopedia Brown solves many new cases in his hometown of Idaville, Florida. The boy detective solves mysteries involving paint drops and missing glass/diamond necklaces. It's amazing how this town attracts such crime! :)My daughter enjoys this series and is always attempting to solve the crimes too...She's a little young, so often requires help. Some of the crimes in this book involve clever solutions. They are fun to listen to and I appreciate the simple creativity.
I was obsessed with this whole series as a kid. I spent hours reading each new mystery and then racking my brain for the solution. Problem was, I'm about a universe away from having Sherlock Holmes' perceptive powers and ALWAYS had to go to the back of the book to get the answers. The good part was it was always a surprise :) Great stuff. Thanks, Donald Sobol
who are these weird kids on the cover? is it just me, or is it weird seeing encyclopedia brown as a real person instead of the cartoon in the versions we read? i make this point because whenever i read books in this series, i felt like i was watching a cartoon. now i bet kids read it and it's too serious. stupid publishers.
THIS IS BANDED TO ZAAAAP ZOMBIES BY THE HEAD!?.this is included FOR the royal viewings PP (no grads by the pound).THIS is not included as a proportional property in my books ,and OUR restaurant is NOT IN THESE WHO DON'T KNOW ME-next week is the GRAND OPENING,on thise conditionsThis book is about how-to-solve-mysteries(mintrieds)-and guessing.
Reread Warlord by Elizabeth VaughanThis is a placeholder, or rather a place counter, since stupid GoodReads does not allow one to count re-read books towards one's total book read count for the year. Even though I've read the book before, I READ THE DAMN BOOK THIS YEAR, AND IT COUNTS TOWARD MY F#%KING COUNTS!Stupid Goodreads *grumble, grumble*
