https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128759.Fatal_Voyage
Reichs has two stories going on.
One a plane crash, the second murders by a secret club.
I found the scientific information most interesting, particularly the section about the stages of decomposition.
I got a kick out of the Chow dog named Boyd.
It provided some humor in an otherwise dark topic.The book is well written.
The characters are interesting.
I enjoy books that weave scientific or historical information into the story.
I you enjoy a murder mystery or scientific information of forensics you will enjoy this book.I read this as a hard-back book.
It has 363 pages.
Well I guess she's okay if you like blood and murder and DUH READ THIS ENTIRE SERIES YO
Probably my favorite book so far and it has gotten me in the mood to watch season one of BONES!Fatal Voyage was so good!
I just feel like things were falling better into place.
Then again, I am back to re-watching season one of Bones and I was so happy.
She mentioned Montreal in the first episode and I HAVE NO IDEA HOW I MISSED THIS!
My mind is blown and I have a feeling I'm going to like the rest of this series.Other than all of that, Temperance really needs to get into fighting back or getting better at standing up for herself.
This was not one of her better books got really bored with this one
My husband is a fan of the television show "Bones" and I inevitably end up watching the series with him.
:)Back in November, with the prospect of a ten hour road trip to Texas looming over me, I dashed to the library in the lobby of my employer's building and was reduced to borrowing crime/mystery audio books.
Since I sort of liked the show Bones and my husband would be in the car with me to Texas, I selected three of Reichs' Temperance Brennan novels.
The mystery seemed to center around a plane crash in or near the Smokey Mountains but quickly degraded to something more sinister.
Reichs truly knows how to write a novel that keeps you trapped and glued to each page.
Tempe is a very down-to-earth character that is relentless at finding out what happened.
No matter how bad things seem, no matter how much it looks like anyone would give up, Tempe clamps down as hard as a pitbull's jaws and doesn't let go.
Too bad she's a character; she's someone I'd like to aspire to become.
I was glad to see Ryan was back, I got truly pissed at those who tried to keep her at bay and bash her down...
I couldn't ask for a better novel!
I really enjoyed this fourth novel in a series that later this year has its twentieth instalment (one of the books being a short story collection).For those who aren't as familiar with both the book world that Reichs created and the TV world inspired by her books, it's worth noting the two worlds are very different in many ways (for me, I prefer the book series while still enjoying the TV show, and the book 'Tempe' character is more interesting - but I can understand how different people will have different preferences, eg especially if they're big fans of the actors, or characters that are in the show that aren't in the books).FATAL VOYAGE begins with a mess of bodies in the wilderness, the wreckage of a plane crash where forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan is on scene, using her skills to help with the horrifying task of trying to help identify some of the victims.
Partially, I guess, because I didn't really understand Dr. Tempe Brennan, the main character, and partially because Kathy Reich's writing style was too clipped and analytical for my tastes.Everything's told from the first person (Tempe's) point of view, but she's such a distant character the reader is kept at arm's length for the entire emotional story — Reich tells you exactly how Tempe's feeling, but doesn't give you the details as to why.
I like a quippy conversation as much as the next reader, but at some point it just becomes overkill.A friend recommended I try out Kathy Reichs, and I might give the author another try -- maybe it was just this particular book that didn't suit my tastes.
A brilliantly written book and a great addition to the Temperance Brennan series. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and highly recommend it.
I have read other books by Kathy Reichs and enjoyed them. This one, however, I did not. It has two main flaws - 1) the plot is just too complicated. Too many names and tiny details to remember. After awhile, I didn't care. 2) Time after time the running dialogue of single sentences spoken between two characters is written in such a way that you can't tell who is saying what. I actually had to go back several times and count him, her, him, her, etc. before I could tell which character was speaking. Sheesh!
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
They basically took Brennan's name and occupation and made a completely different personality to go with what they wanted.
There are so many things different you just may as well say it is a separate series altogether.I liked the book however I did have a few issues.
I mean when you get a phone call and someone tells you you are going to die, do you go out at night by yourself to give the dog a walk?
As you can tell I found that very annoying.I also found that for a smart person she is oblivious to great big blaring issues.
Okay I will admit that I am a nightmare for reading books out of sequence- its not something I go out actively looking to do but its just something I have a natural talent for, well this book is no different so it would seem, but I didn't plan it this way, honest.Well the book itself was picked up at random and even though I have followed the TV series (which I know has diverged from the world in the books considerably) and that there are numerous books before and after it - I decided to give it a go.
What I read was thrilling story which not only highlighted the differences from TV and book characters but also for me gave a much larger and broader story.
I will not criticise the TV series but this is a different league and for a thriller it certainly deserves a read.
About a quarter of the way in, Tempy is roadblocked and theoretically taken off the case.
One thing that annoyed me to no end was that Ryan was accused of a horrible crime in book #3, but then we learn he's under deep cover.
I NEED ANSWERS!I really came to love Alice Crow in this book.
She was a great police officer and I loved that she was on Tempy's side 100% but still did great police work.
I loved that there were so many different crimes happening in this book that needed to be innvestigated.
All fun ranting aside, let's get to one of my more serious gripes.
I feel like it's kind of a non-spoken pact between mystery-author & reader that they need to give the reader clues that allows said reader to have a chance at guessing what really happened.
That's part of the fun, sometimes...trying to anticipate the twists & turns of a case.
Now maybe I'm misremembering, but it feels like you have absolutely no chance of that in Reich's stories.
One of the other detectives/officers comes & gives Brennan a synopsis of the how & why behind the whole deal.
I am wanting to like this series SO badly (you have NO idea), but I really don't think that I do..Th
I am so glad that Boyd lived.
Kathy Reichs's 'Fatal Voyage', while intermittently suffering from the common flaws of implausibility and 'jargonese', is still an engrossing thriller.
Reichs goes on to write in the afterword, that:"Even as a professional familiar with bereavement and loss, I was unprepared for the emotional impact of that experience.
We are not all forensic anthropologists, Reichs.In consistency with all its praise and positive criticism, Reichs's 'Fatal Voyage' is a noteworthy achievement in its crowded field, even if it just falls short of true greatness in my opinion.
Tempe is back, this time investigating an airplane crash.
Then the situation became clearer and we find forensic anthropologist Tempe Brennan on the horrific scene of a downed plane.
(I can’t even imagine what the volunteers in New York must be going through right now.) Reichs gives it to us straight and in living color.As far as I can tell, she’s right on with her details, describing the agencies involved in mass disaster recovery efforts: The Office of Emergency Preparedness runs the National Disaster Medical System (NDMS), which provides medical aid and services.
This book does indeed have a great, interesting and well-drawn character.
She does a nice job of writing from the female perspective, and has some great characters, such as Claudel in the first book.Fatal Voyage has little to recommend it, other than Boyd the dog.
The characters she devotes a great deal of attention to in the book --such as Ruby, the inn owner have little impact on the plot.
Boy, was I sorry.If the main chapters of the book are disappointing, I am not sure of a good word to describe the actual outcome of the plot.
In this book, Temperance Brennan seems like a Kay Scarpetta who has traveled forward in time about 15 years.
I can grudgingly admire Cornwell for the contributions to the field, but I don't really like her character.)Maybe I just don't like the first person point of view...the "me, my, I" made me feel like the character was just way too serious and full of herself.
These are the kind of details that are slightly interesting when describing places I've been but really not necessary in most cases.
I appreciated all of the forensic and technical details and found them interesting as this is the first of Kathy Reichs' novels I've read, and I know of her real-life career as a forensic anthropologist, which is the same as her protagonist Dr. Tempe Brennen.
And the case was fascinating and really shocking, but I thought that the actual solution was still a little over the top and unrealistic.I have to admit that my favorite thing was the addition of Boyd, and I loved how Tempe interacted with him.
Boyd is smart, funny, and loyal, and with his "unique" ability to sniff out remains/decay should definitely become a "colleague" of sorts on Tempe's forensic cases.
If you like the Bones tv series, this is nothing like it.
Ok, so the tv series is based off of this author's books, but Temperance Brennen is nothing in the book like she is on the show.
However that being said, while I'm a huge fan of the show, I also like the books.
Basically, you have the anthropologist figuring out who the body is and who dun it, and throw in a little of her personal life and drama.
They are engaging and enjoyable.
Warning - she has no issue with swear words.
Oh, Brennan. What a ridiculous book. I'm gratified to find that it's still possible to predict the moment she will do something silly and ill-advised just in time to put herself into mortal danger. Someday, I tell myself, there will come an installment where no one she knows well is dead or in danger, where events in Canada don't coincidentally involve events in North Carolina, where she's neither kidnapped, beaten, nor held at gunpoint. But what will I do then?
This is the fourth book in the Temperance Brennen series and it was predictable (as I expected) but still entertaining enough to spend a weekend flipping through the pages. The details of the plane crash were interesting. Brennan, of course, got herself into the same scrapes as always but she always makes it out alive - her body and career intact.
The series have improved so much since the first book! I was surprised at how attached-and-not-willing-to-put-the-book-down I was. Absolutely exciting and pageturning. So good - as ever I am a huge fan of all the historical references.
I didn't remember how this turned out, though parts weren't too difficult to guess. It was much less annoying than #10 and #15 in the series that I'd just read. It might get 3.5 stars, but not 4.
3.5 SterneAuch nach meinem vierten Tempe-Brennan-Roman habe ich weiterhin ein etwas zwiespältiges Verhältnis zur Reihe von Kathy Reichs und dieses vierte Buchs steht praktisch stellvertretend für die positiven und negativen Aspekte.Die erste Hälfte des Buches fand ich recht langatmig, was mehrere Gründe hat: der Fall ist zu Beginn nicht wirklich spannend, die Autorin hält sich viel mit überflüssigen Informationen (wie z.B. über die an den Ermittlungen beteiligten Organisationen mit ihren unzähligen Abkürzungen) auf und involviert zu viele Nebencharaktere in die Geschichte.
Die Auflösung mag vielleicht etwas überzogen sein, hat aber auf jeden Fall einen gewissen Schockeffekt.Gewöhnungsbedürftig ist hier auch die neue Sprecherin Katharina Spiering, die nach drei Hörbüchern Tempe Brennens deutsche Fernsehstimme Ranja Bonalana ablöst.
I have been following this series of books for many years now and have always enjoyed every reading experience.
Recently I have revisited them again as my daughter wanted me to buddy read them with her after discovering the television series and then seeing the books in our bookshelves.
I am glad I read the books before seeing some of the television show because otherwise I may not have liked them quite so much.
This installment takes place in and around Charlotte, NC, which I enjoyed. I liked the storyline involving a plane crash; I thought it was quite interesting, especially the ending. I wasn't expecting it or the ending of the other storyline. That one was very strange all the way around.
