https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196301.The_Skin_of_Our_Teeth
Our Town, 1938 - Thorny Wilder omits the alcoholism, adultry, incest, perversion, abuse, insanity, theft, corruption in his rose-tinted white, Christian, middle-class humbug that engaged, once upon a time, Americans.
Then came 1942, and the fantasist was back again, as the world shook to the most savage war of all.
Thorny still wore his rosy specs in this tomfool spoof of come-wot-may Man Shall Always Survive.
Only the middle-brows were bewildered.
This history lesson is now dated, corny and its message -- we'll always survive, haha, by the skin of our teeth, is irrelevant and pessimistic.
Who sez the human race should survive -- and  Why?
به قول عزيزي كه از شكسپير نقل ميكرد:The violent fire consumes itself fastنمايشنامه براي دوره اي كه توش نوشته شده خيلي آوانگاره و وايلدر بخاطرش پوليتزر برده ولي معلومه كه وايلدر هم دچار سرنوشت گوركي و شاو و سامرست موام ميشه اگر تا حالا نشده باشه.
و از اين جهت ميشه گفت بايد اجرا بشه و نه خونده، خلاصه كه اگر خونديد و بخش زياديشو نفهميديد كاملا طبيعيه ظاهرن.
خيلي بين سه و چهار ستاره دو دل بودم ولي يه كشش شديد دروني كه به سمت چيزاي غيرعادي دارم باعث شد چهار بدم!پ.پ.پ.ن.
تا حالا راجع به هيچ كتابي انقدر توضيح نداده بودما!
The one line that sums up the entire play:"have you milked the mammoth yet?"Surreal, Meta beyond belief, occasionally harrowing, often hilarious, non-comprehensible half the time...but Wilder is a master at endings, and everything suddenly makes sense in the last ten pages. He's a master of exploring cosmic themes through everyday life.
First sentence: Announcer: The management takes pleasure in bringing to you--The News Events of the World:Premise/plot: The Skin of Our Teeth is an always absurd, sometimes amusing, frequently head-scratching play that won a Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1943.
It stars Mr. and Mrs. Antrobus, a couple who've been married for 5,000+ years, their two children Henry and Gladys, and their 'maid' Sabina.
The 'theme' is surviving 'by the skin of your teeth.' The running gag, of sorts, is that this couple is "Adam" and "Eve" and Henry is "Cain." The first act is 'the end of the world' by ice.
I’m not sure how much I liked The Skin of Our Teeth, Thornton Wilder’s second most well-known play..I should stipulate, reading a play is a very different thing from seeing a play.
I don't have much experience reading plays and mentally transmuting the written words and actions to that ancient medium, so take all I say here with a grain of salt.
(More than anything, in these moments, I think Wilder is saying more about theater at the time than anything else.) The outcome, the moral, the defining idea, is that humanity always recovers.
But the other side of Thornton Wilder's coin is that humanity continues to make the same mistakes over and over again.
The parents have been married for over 5,000 years and gave birth to Cain and Abel; the father invented the wheel, the alphabet, and chose Miss Atlantic City 1942.
Every page in the book is thick with allusion, from the Muse sisters to the maid Sabina (who was raped; Wikipedia).
I'm not sure I understood the half of it, but it was fun to read, and I think it's the sort of play that benefits from repeated readings.
It's definitely something I'd like to read again later on.
One of the most remarkable artworks I've encountered, and among the most appropriate to the end times we are living through.
This play, which breaks the fourth wall many times, revolves around a family and their maid as they face the Ice Age, the Great Flood and a seven year war.
Sabina is the maid that often "breaks out of character" and becomes the actress playing Sabina, "Miss Somerset."It's a funny play that touches upon serious subject matters - such as whether humanity is worth living for.One of my favorite lines are "Did you milk the mammoth yet?" To which Sabina/Miss Somerset replies "I don't understand a word of this play - Yes I milked the mammoth."A must read if you love plays.
This means I generally dislike all things that are self-referential, with the one monumental exception being Monty Python's Flying Circus, but only because they do it in a way that is far more clever than I could ever manage.
I want to be immersed in something, not have it constantly reminding me that it is merely make-believe.I suppose all this criticism is not a criticism of the play as a whole but more of the meaninglessness of the whole of modern philosophy which declines to acknowledge the existence of ultimate things and therefore lacks a comprehensive vision of the self.It was funny, though.
Easily my favorite play, hands down, and Sabina my favorite role. Where else do you get lines that allow you to break the fourth wall like this?!"I can't invent words for this play, and I'm glad I can't. I hate this play and every word in it."
This is a heck of a thing to wander into after only having read "Our Town." My image of Thornton Wilder is blown.
I mean: a forties family where the father is inventing the wheel and the alphabet?
The family somehow blended up with adam and eve/noah/Napoleon?
A maid who is alternatively hysterically putting in her two-weeks notice in face of the coming ice age and breaking character to complain how the play doesn't make sense?
An act where they pretend half the cast gets food poisoning and there aren't enough stand ins so they describe what some people were supposed to do?
It's hysterical, but more layered than just that.
Given the reinterpretation of Wilder's career, and especially the staging of Our Town, wanted a taste of his writing.
Interesting to see an Absurdist drama in the US during WWII.
Read the Samuel French edition, with all the accompanying details on outfits and stage props and such.Reading his bio in Wikipedia, also of interest his "relationship" w/ Samuel Steward.
Will read more Wilder.
I find it intriguing that the man who wrote such works as "Our Town" and "The Bridge of San Luis Rey" (albeit early in his career)would later write such self-conscious literature (the "fourth wall" *often* comes down in this play), Absurdist pieces.
Our Town was a great novel, What happened to Wilder in this play!The Skin of Our Teeth can't be a classic play or a modern one nor a realistic play or a Surreal one. Along with this problem of classified the play, it isn't a good play which one can enjoy reading and not watching, It may be enjoyable on the theatre.The characters are very shallow, I know they suppose to play as symbols but not like that. One can't read a play focusing only on the meaning of the symbols and their actions.
i love this play but what.
My first encounter with an "absurd" play and I ate it up!!!!
pretty interesing, and a little out there.cool introduction to wildrer
The message of the play is that people always find ways of continuing on, even in the face of (or after) tremendous natural and human-made disasters, and considering that this was staged near the beginning of World War II, when the Axis seemed to have the upper hand in the war, this was probably considered a good play to help the war effort at home.
There are two main problems with the play as a work of literature: the action slows down tremendously toward the end (even though the third act is shorter than the other two, it feels longer); and Wilder's message of hope has little role for everyday people, who are meant to follow a vanguard leadership, versed in philosophy and science, into a better future.
it's a wholly different experience.The Skin of Our Teeth is a comedy (I think) that's written by Wilder under the awareness that it's a play and is at times interrupted by human fallibility.
And what is the story at hand?The story at hand is about the Antrobus family, who live for thousands of years and on very specific occasions decided to change their personalities.
Everything just comes across as sloppy, which is how Wilder might have intended The Skin of Our Teeth to appear, but it simply isn't my cup of tea.
If you're looking for a good Wilder play, I recommend Our Town.
The action covers three periods--an ice age, a great flood, and a devastating war--and in each case, humans manage to survive against overwhelming odds.
He wants to believe in the goodness of humanity and the survival of the race, but often his faith is shaken.
A good provider, he obtains a boat in order to save his family during the big flood.
After the great war, he decides to try to live in peace with his vicious son, Henry.
Striving to regain his confidence in mankind, he takes comfort in his books, his home, and the good people of the world.
Thorton Wilder has these kind of folksy optimism that grinds my gears.
He believes everything works out for the better.
It's something I have trouble reconciling in his plays.
Here it is working in over drive.
The lens that is used is that Eastern American Simple country family in extreme circumstances and it seems to be talking about an America that never was.
Negating major movements of revolution to side and focusing in on dogmatic institutionalists like Spinoza and Plato, whom he quotes at the end of the play.
This play is bonkers, heavy handed, preachy and I think downright unpleasant.
I first read "The Skin of Our Teeth" back in AP English Lit in high school.
It was kinda weird because it was used as a time-filler -- that time between after taking the AP exam and graduation, and the ideas first presented here just went right over my mind.
Who cares about the existentialism?
Now, coming back to this almost 20 years later (!!), I see it in a much different light: the 'breaking the fourth wall' was a relatively new technique, one that would be become more and more common as the century moved on.
I spent about 5 minutes staring blankly at my screen, scratching my head trying to figure out what I have just been reading for the past two or so days.
Of course, tge skin of our teeth!
I felt that the play was too disconnected.
I really struggled to understand this play.
This was a different kind of challenge altogather.
But, it is only after finishing it and reading some of the reviews here that I got to understand what the book was about.
So whose not up to the challenge here, maybe am the one.
I will re-read this one in future.
I had to read this in college and hated it. But I gave it a second star because ten years later there's still a lime that sticks with me; I'm not going to remember it exactly but it's something like "when he looks at her he realizes she has seen every mistake he has ever made," or something along those lines.
I remain convinced that Wilder is one of our most important American writers. Though, unfortunately, he is also one of our most underrated. It's time to put all those sit-com versions of Our Town out of our heads and revisit Wilder for what he is--a pioneer of Modern American theater.
The story of a family that has been around for thousands of years. They've survived, by the skin of their teeth, multiple end of world scenarios - ice, flood, and war. A unique play that relies on breaking the fourth wall. Absurd and witty.
Remarkably interesting story concept of a family that survives through the ages of every war and natural disaster. A great look into the human condition. I found the actors coming out of character so often rather strange but can understand Wilder's use for them in that way.
Kept me thinking, but maybe too much.
Well, this one is amazing, so out-of-this-world!
Reread this recently. It definitely speaks to our times.
I have so many questions....what happened to the dinosaur and the mammoth....THEY JUST SENT THEM AWAAAAY.
