https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389827.When_Calls_the_Heart
Our emotions during this time went haywire; we were terrified because we’ve never been parents and didn’t know what to do, we were thrilled with the boys themselves and fell in love with them despite our efforts not to get attached, and we were a weird mix of devastated (for us) and relieved (for them) when they went home so soon.
Though Christian historical fiction is not one of my favorite genres, it’s what I tend to turn to whenever I’m going through a rough patch in my life.
And in the vast majority of the books in this genre, you go in knowing that everything is going to turn out okay, and that a happy ending is almost inevitable.
If you want to have romance, just stage a box lunch fundraiser and have the love-interest bid up a storm), and to kiss her so she doesn't faint.
Elizabeth runs into a bear on the way home from a student's house, she promptly faints and is rescued from a certain mauling by Wynn, who conveniently shows up to carry her out of danger (gag).
*sigh* All in all, a quick, mindless read that did not make me laugh, cry or learn (three things the back of the book advised I should do), so I suppose it was mostly wasted time.
**These books aren't anywhere near as amazing and profound as SGW's Prairie Winds trilogy, but I love them anyway!**Its been years since I've read these, but I have definitely read them a few times.
The 'good stuff' didn't really happen until about 3/4 of the way through the book.I love this series.
I grew up with Oke's "Love Comes Softly" series, and I didn't love them as much as I came to love these books.
I am really looking forward to revisiting the rest of the series.There is actually a show loosely based off these books.
I love the Hallmark Channel.come find me:www.facebook.com/ReadsAshIG: ash.reads Twitter: @ReadsAsh
I’ve watched most of the Hallmark TV show of the same title (which is amazing, by the way), so I decided to give the book a try.
Well, it was nothing like the TV show … but it was amazing.
Once I got started, I couldn’t put it down.
Elizabeth was a great character (though sometimes this country girl thought she was being silly, such as with the ‘wolves’) and I love Wynn.
He wasn’t Jack (or Gil) … but he was still a great hero.
I loved that last scene at the train depot.
Link to review:http://booksforchristiangirls.blogspo...*BFCG may (Read the review to see) recommend this book by this author.
It does not mean I recommend all the books by this author.
I can see why this series is much loved by many readers.
It is a shorter read, and while nothing is unpredictable, the setting and characters hold a lot of charm.
I've always found the life of teachers during this time period fascinating, and Elizabeth was a kindred spirit of sorts, with her tea-drinking and book-reading.
It's easy to see why readers liker her.
But even that I could overlook since it's a shorter book and holds a lot of appeal in it's other aspects.I hope to eventually get to the rest of the series!

Such a sweet story set in the Canadian frontier.Main character Elizabeth Thatcher is a teacher from the east that ventures to the wild frontier to live with her brother and his family and be a teacher there. Her experiences in travel and getting established as a teacher are entertaining and touching. Her experience wasn't what she planned, but in the end her heart was overjoyed with gladness.This novel was a great introduction to Janette Oke. I look forward to continuing the series.
Have you ever loved a book SO much that you could read it over and over again and never get tired of it?
When Calls the Heart is my favorite book ever.
Then, after watching an episode from the Hallmark TV show, When Calls the Heart, I picked up this book and started reading it for the who-knows-what time.When I first read this book, I couldn’t put it down.
I love, love, love (if you couldn’t tell) the whole saga.Throughout the years, there have been many different covers of this book.
It gets more “real”.If you already couldn’t tell, I am giving this book 5 stars.
I read this after enjoying the Hallmark Channel series "When Calls The Heart." This book is the original that inspired the Hallmark Channel movie by the same name. The movie incorporated a few changes that made the story better. The series (books and T.V. show) has a different location and some of the characters are different.Eastern born Elizabeth travels West to teach in a wilderness school in Canada. She finds difficulties in the surroundings, but adapts quickly and forms strong bonds to the people of the community.I liked the history behind the Canadian Mounted Police.
Definitely exceeded my expectations! (It's a good 3 stars) It's kind of a bunch of vignettes, and I enjoy that style. However, I didn't really like Elizabeth's moping around about Wynn, even thought I really liked him. I get that stuff like that happens, but I don't really enjoy reading about it. Idk, it just wasn't a stand out book to me, although I did enjoy it. I'll probably get around to reading the others in the series at some point.
However, her clear craft of writing, to me, is a staple on any shelf and hones the likeliness of Jane Austen.
Therefore, lending to me, the "Jane Austen" status for Christian Lit. Yes, it's that good!A lovely story with a strong female character now embarking out on her own and trying to battle life on the "West" with her head held high and trying desperately not to get married.
That is, until a Royal Canadian Mountie Policeman walks into her life!
*Sighs* It is Canadian, what can I say.
It is a perfect story ;DA must read for any christian reader.
It was inspired (loosely) on the first book in the Canadian West series, When Calls the Heart.
I have heard great things about Janette Oke, so I decided to give her Canadian West a try.
I started the book and really enjoyed the beginning, when Elizabeth first gets the invitation to head West, and her emotions and reactions and thoughts are normal and easily understood.
I related some of the things that both Wynn and Elizabeth did throughout the story to my older sister and we both ended up laughing.
And the reason why I didn't like this book wasn't because it was Christian fiction, as I had expected.
I had been hoping that the romantic tension - what the summary on the back builds up to be at the center of the story - would keep things interesting, but Elizabeth and Wynn's motives and their resulting actions just didn't add up in my mind, and I just have a hard time believing that it can all culminate in a "I'm-going-back-East/Please-don't-leave-me" scene like we got in the final chapters.
I've never read more than a couple Janette Oke books, so when I picked this title up, it sat around for a while before I decided to read it.
Unfortunately, I started reading at a time when I probably should have been busy doing something else.
I couldn't put the book down and read on through the next few hours, that night and the next day till I finished.
Janette Oke masterfully weaves the tale of a schoolteacher coming west to take a position near her mother's favorite, her elder brother.
Read for a second time in March, 2014 - still worth the read!
I bought this series from a local used book store and finally read it!
Before, I have read the Love Comes Softly series and Season of the Heart series...I've also watched the TV show When Calls the Heart.
XD)I'd probably recommend that you stick to the books before movies rule...
;) Though in some parts, it did help me visualize Elizabeth, but I'd say, read the books first!
there were many emotions in this book (including a lot of embarrassment...
The only thing that made me a little uncomfortable was when the author described the 'open stares' the men (bachelors) gave Elizabeth.
This was a cute love story. But it was also a really fascinating story about a girl surviving in the West. Trying to start schools, rally support for struggling families and fighting off the men who just want to wed her (because she can't possibly want to work and be independent). I like her strength and I liked her loyalty and sweet shyness.
I wish I had never read this book.
There are some touching scenes in the book -- and a few hilarious episodes too, like Elizabeth's encounter(s) with furry critters in her rustic home!
I relished in every minute of the book -- even when I could see things coming (like Wynn), and Elizabeth never could.
It feel like it could have been published just last year, when in fact, this book originally came out in 1983?!
Her writing style definitely does NOT feel dated.This is clean, Christian fiction.
Elizabeth's faith is woven into the story well.I'm excited to read book 2 soon!

This book reads more like a diary than a novel, which in and of itself isn't a problem--it's Oke's underdeveloped characterization, clunky writing, and poor plot development that kills it for me.
We only find out on page 175 (of a 220-page book) that he's a Mountie, but we don't know anything about his job, his feelings (other than the usual "If the RCMP wanted a Mountie to have a wife, they would have issued him one" trope), or what even makes him attractive to Elizabeth.
I'm going to count this as my Inspy Historical Romance in my 2014 Genre Reading Challenge, though there are a few things about this book that, even by my definition, disqualify it from that genre.First, it's written in first-person.
All the while, he's maintaining his attitude that Mounties shouldn't marry because it's selfish---unfair to the woman, who won't be able to handle the kind of rough living that a Mountie in the outback of Canada (can I call it that?) would have to deal with.Other than those things, it's pretty standard Prairie Romance fare: City Girl goes West to teach in Country Town and has to learn how to rough-it while falling in love with Local Law Man. It even includes the Big Misunderstanding trope: she believes he's married and the father of one of the boys in her school.
Since my own novel Wildwood relates to pioneer history in Alberta, I wanted to check out another historical novel by this extremely popular author who has written 75 books, sold 23 million copies, and has seen a TV series based on her books!
Janette Oke is considered a Christian author but references to God were infrequent in this novel, about a young woman from Toronto who takes up a teaching position in a rural Alberta school.
This was altogether a very pleasant read and I can understand why Janette Oke has so many fans worldwide.
Average, just average. This book is the perfect example of a three star read. It's nice, nothing to really recommend it but then again, nothing to really disparage. The romance aspect is absent until the last page, leaving it a story of the day to day life of a rather quiet school teacher in the Canadian West. It just kind of puddles along to the end.
I've heard good things about this series, so I expected it to be a good read -- and it was! I liked the characters, setting, and story. It was interesting and held my attention. :)
This Canada-set historical novel has echoes of films like The Bay Boy and Love Comes Softly. Written in an evocative, lyrical style, it's a truly unforgettable book.
I've promised my bff to mostly reserve my judgement on this until I read book 2. A lot about this book felt underdeveloped. It had a very tell-not-show writing style BUT, I loved that it was as much, if not more, about Elizabeth's teaching as about any romance. I LOVED that Elizabeth was level headed and reasonable. I loved the way faith and God were woven into the book.I also maybe made fun of how, much like the Call the Midwife show and the NHS, this book (and presumably series) sometimes seemed to be one big ad for Canadian Mounties.
This involves a fundraiser put on by Elizabeth and the schoolchildren.During this fundraiser, Wynn, whom she now believes to be married, wins an auction for a lunch with her and she is so thoroughly embarrassed to be pursued by a "married" man that she sets forth a sequence of events to turn him down at every opportunity, despite secretly admiring him.It is only when she discovers her mistake that she realizes her deep feelings for him and can only be saddened as he appears to love his job more than her.
They aren't just perfect characters that do whatever is right and good, they have flaws just like everyone else.Oke also took the time to include a bit of history in this story which helps the reader to understand the background and setting of the novel.
Having seen the series on Hallmark first, I decided to read the books after my mom said they were better.
For starters, you learn a lot about Elizabeth (Not the one from the tv series but an older relation who came before her who is mentioned in the pilot episode.) I liked seeing her rich and lavish lifestyle in contrast to what she came to live in her new, more rustic home as a country teacher.
It was so much better reading his and Elizabeth's love story unfold rather than watching that pilot episode on Hallmark.
I loved that their romance unfolded naturally.
That's all I'm going to say on the subject.I somewhat liked the hallmark tv series, but I LOVED the books.
In the waning days of my total obsession with Oregon Trail books as a child, I came across her books in middle school and became obsessed with them for their innocent love stories (my mother was thankful for this too) and their historical fiction settings.
When I saw this book as a free kindle ebook, I was instantly nostalgic for my pre-teen Janette Oke days and started reading it.
Her interweaving of faith in her characters is very tastefully done and I never feel like I'm reading a religious book, but just a novel about people who happen to hold their faith as important.
I didn't feel like it gave enough time to fully develop the characters or the love story.
