https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13628209-the-boy-who-sneaks-in-my-bedroom-window
It was like reading the diary entry of a 12 year old teenager obsessesd with her boyfriend, with no fucking priorities at all.Oh, and just look at the average rating-4.11 Four point fucking one?
God, half of the fucking book is filled with description of people sucking each others' face.
Seriously?It's like the author has no idea what an abused person goes through.
The whole fucking book was abound with so many grammatical errors that it was like reading an essay written a child who has absolutely no idea what English is about.
these girls can't control themselves and MUST try to have sex with every single boy they meet.So Amber and Liam end up making out and start secretly dating.
So that's over 200 slutty girls all trying to get Liam to have sex with them.Amber puts in her $20 of course, and then starts acting like a big slut too, even though she's the mystery girlfriend.
They also find out that he's been beating his new wife and kids too!Jake and Liam find out and talk the wife and kids into leaving rapist dad and moving in with them.
So, meet Amber and Liam They aren't couple , but they sleep together since they were kidsBUT THEY JUST SLEPT But then something changes and she starts to feel something And of course he feels something too“He turned to me, and do you know what he said to me ?
Then he pointed to you dancing and said, 'if I'm not dead, then why is there an Angel in our house.'” “Liam, what do you want from me ?""Everything.”They were all for each other>“She was the only thing I needed.
If everything else went away tomorrow, the big house, all the cars, the money, I wouldn't care.
It was a tough call because the good parts were reeeeally heart-meltingly good but the inconsistencies and some parts of the writing kind of brought it down for me.This book has a fair bit of flaws (moments of stilted dialogue, a LOT of out-of-character, unrealistic and nonsensical actions from the heroine, some not-so-great writing, and plain flat-out stupidity), but the thing is, if you can (and I mostly did) overlook those flaws, and remember that this is purely a work of fiction, its actually a very adorable, at times hot, and definitely aww-worthy romance about a girl who came for an abusive home and a boy who has loved her since she was a little kid, has been her protector ever since then, and is willing to do just about anything to make her happy, comfortable, feel safe, and loved..
One of the worst books I've read!'Nuff said!
Is this a school or a fucking playboy mansion?)↠ Asshole of a love interest ('I know you're a fragile victim of sexual trauma and I totally care for you baby, but let me just go ahead and grope your ass -in public- every two pages anyway, cause this is a romance book and everything I do is unbearably sexy and your past magically poofs at the touch of my holy dick and this is all very realistic of course.')↠ Lack of any emotional depth whatsoever (You can cut these characters out of their goddamn pages, they're so cardboard.)↠ Pathetically idiotic protagonist (oh I know, I'll run off to save the day by confronting my abusive fuck of a father even though the situation's already under control and then most likely get abused again, except this time, while carrying a baby– genius!
Some books are meant to teach us lesson. Some, to give us information. Others, to provide entertainment. After reading  The Boy Who Sneaks in my Bedroom Window , I thought "Where do we put this horrible book?" Because it is neither of the three.Well, okay. It might provide entertainment for those who seek for this kind of story. But to me it's a big no no. This was a horrible and infuriating read. Kind of insulting to the female and male population who were looked up to be slut and man-whore by
It might provide entertainment for those who seek for this kind of story.
This was a horrible and infuriating read.
Kind of insulting to the female and male population who were looked up to be slut and man-whore by the author.
Because last time I checked not all high school girls and boys are whore and man-whore.There's also this author's habit of starting almost every chapter with Amber waking up next to Liam, telling us how his boner poked her in various body parts.
Oh, and I haven't mentioned the fact that I didn't even finish it.
Ovvero inesistente; b) la scena narrata avesse un minimo di credibilità e c) il tema non fosse stato usato fino alla noia in modo completamente sbagliato e scorretto per impietosire il lettore e per costruire una base fragilissima alla storia-porcata che seguirà.Dopo questo piccolo excursus per far capire al lettore accigliato la genuinità del rapporto Liam/Amber (da lui soprannominata Angel.
I was looking for an angst-free read and, for most of the book, that is exactly what I got.The story centres on three characters - Amber, her brother Jake and Jake’s best friend Liam.
Amber had survived through so much ugliness in her life and I was happy that she got to have this one positive and bright constant in her life - Liam’s love.The other important relationship in this book is between Amber and her brother Jake.
3.5 LIAM Stars ”Could this boy be any more perfect?” This story had a lot of things that were far-fetched but it also had Liam James, a swoon worthy hero that had me reading on, even though at times I was rolling my eyes. It just goes to show you a great male lead can sometimes save a story.The premise of the story is quite simple, Amber and her big brother Jake have been suffering physical, and on her part sexual abuse by the hands of their father. Amber’s brother’s best friend, Liam lives next
Amber doesn’t like being touched and the two have a hate-hate relationship it seems during the day because she sees him as her brother’s arrogant best friend and man-whore.
A whole lot of crazy goes down in which I was left questioning the fact that a sixteen year old girl can release herself from the hospital and the whole freeing themselves of their father’s evil plan that didn’t include going to the authorities to protect a future family from this monster.Overall, this story had many things that didn’t work but with one fantastic big brother, Jake and a dreamy hero, Liam made it a memorable read.
It was the plot - or better saying, lack of it - that made me stop reading it 20% through.So Amber is supposed to be a traumatized teen because she had endured abuse from her father up until she was 13.
The woman had endured abuse by her husband, watched him do the same to her kids, and she wasn't the one who kicked the him to the curb (her son and Liam did) but suddenly she is a PA for an executive and spends most of her time away from her kids.
Well what happened here?There's many many MANY, things wrong with this book and I could write a book on it, but I don't usually write reviews on books just get down to the point, but since this book was so terrible I must say what's on my mind.Where do I start?Ok, I think I got it.So the Title of this book isThe Boy Who Sneaks in my Bedroom WindowRight?Automatically you think "Oh, so its a romance book"But then you get the overview and you think "So maybe her father did things to her and her best boy/friend visited her at night"But then you read the book and it's nothing you predicted...not even close.So you have this girl who has a past of an abusive father and now it has followed her in her teen years.
Goodreads reviews rarely let me down.
You lie, and you lied good.The book had a lot of potential.
The story poorly executed.I need to google this author and find out if the name is a pen name for a 15 year old who just got a laptop for Christmas.
Because the dialog and story line in this book would suggest so.
The fact that Amber is constantly talking about how she doesn't like being touched, listen..
You don't like being touched.
I've got to stop here, or I could go all day with ranting about this book.
Mostly where that monster of father was involved..I can't believe a mother left her children so unprotected and after he left she found a job that was away of the children she didn't save..Anyway i loved the story of the petname 'Angel' he had for her..AWWWWWW he was so cute, cute,cute!!And what a great thing to sleep in the arms of someone that you know he will protect you no matter what..And the stories from when they were kids were also great..AWWWWW again..THOUGHT ABOUT THE BOOK- I loved Jake so much..- Their first kiss story awwwwwwww..- I was happy Ruby and her children abandon her father.- Her friends were nice..- The story with the bet was a bit too much..- I wasn't sure why she hated him..- I liked their skating together..- Loved the epilogue..I think of this book as a fairytale..
The only things we knew about Jake was that he played hockey with Liam, playboy who sleeps around, every girl in school wanted him, over protective of Amber, he was also abused by his father without the sexual aspects, oh and he’s also abusive.
Because the author felt the need to mention that on almost every page that involved Jake.The third main character of this little story, and the only one who’s anywhere near likable, is Liam – the best friend.
Liam, like Jake, is also on the hockey team, playboy who sleeps around, wanted by every girl in the school, over protective of Amber…so he’s basically Jake.
Needless to say I LOVED IT!!!Amber and Jake Walker live in fear of their abusive father.
One night after an horrific beating eight year old Amber is in her room crying when Liam spots her from his window.
Liam is Jake's best friend and lives next door to the Walker's.
Who does that?The Darkness- Abuse plagued the Walker family and it effected both Amber and Jake badly.
And i felt her panic whenever it happened.Fave Quotes'All his Morning Glory' -Amber when referring to Liam's morning hard on.“It’s always been you; it’ll always be you, Angel.” - Liam“She was the only thing I needed.
First up, let me say that i read the Wattpad version of this story by Kirsty and i was BLOWN AWAY!!!!
Just the type of YA romance that i love!
I'm off to Smashwords to buy the edited version of this story but i don't think that it could get any better!
When i read the version that Kirsty has published (which is now up on Amazon and Smashwords), i'll leave a proper review!Congrats, Ms Moseley...
the rest of the world deserves to read your awesome YA romance stories...
EDIT: Just finished the published version...What can i say?
I think reading on wattpad has prepared me to be completely oblivious (selectively so) when it comes to typos, grammar and stuff like that (even though my brain is hardwired to want to fix these errors).
Yes, he kept me going for 70% of the way on my kindle, but then I just couldn't care for the main character Amber for me to finish it.
LOL) for thinking that I could actually like this book if I had finished it, because surely I'm just that mental to put my precious mind through so much pain!
Singkatnya Amber sama Liam jadian.Dan dimulailah hubungan mereka yang manis itu.Konflik utama muncul ketika ayah Amber kembali dan ingin mengganggunya lagi.Saya pengen banget kasih bintang yang lebih tinggi untuk buku ini.
Tapi bahkan di US sekalipun, gak semua siswinya semurah itu kok.Lalu kita bahas karakter pendamping utama : Jake.Saya suka sih sama Jake, perannya sebagai kakak yang overprotective ke Amber tuh mengharukan.
Saya bisa tahan sama Liam di bab awal, tapi setelah jadian dengan Amber, dia berubah jadi cowok yang setiap omongannya selalu bikin melting, tapi juga amat sangat cheesy.Coba baca kutipan ini :“Don’t remind me about my former life without you, Angel.
La historia se centra en Amber quien tuvo un padre abusivo, y un día después de que su padre la golpeara cuando estaba llorando en su cuarto, el mejor amigo de su hermano, Liam se escabulle dentro de su cuarto a consolarla.
Ambos se quedan dormidos y la situación se repite una y otra vez hasta que Liam prácticamente se mete en el cuarto de Amber y duerme todos los días allí, de ahí el titulo.
Jake, es el hermano de Amber, sobre protector, mujeriego, un típico chico popular y obviamente sexy, según el libro.
Holy roller coaster! Liam was fantastic. FANTASTIC!! There was so much lovey dovey stuff (my favorite) so I was swooning and sighing constantly.Fyi to the younger crowd, there was quite a bit of language and sex 'stuff', but I really enjoyed it. Some parts were definitely hard to read because they were very heartwrenching and upsetting, but real.Buy this book. All I'm saying.
No pude terminarlo .Mientras pasaba la historia , esto es lo unico que leía.-Soy Amber , todas las noches desde que tengo ocho años duermo en mi camita con el vecino .
o sea , creo que no soy linda , o sea , No entiendo porque le gusto a los pibes cuando soy tan tetona y tengo tan lindo cuerpo ...
todas las chicas son mas lindas que yo , que no soy tan linda asi que , o sea , no entiendo porque me miran tanto ni porque se pelean por mi ....-Soy Amber , ayer mi vecino me beso y a mi me gusto ...

2 CODEPENDIENTES STARS La historia es entretenida, PEROOOOOOOOOOO me causo cierto desagrado.Y me la pase rodando los ojos por todos los errores que tiene esta historia.Para empezar ya no quiero leer libros que contengan abuso sexual, pero por alguna razón siempre termino leyendo uno. En este caso no sabía que de eso trataba este libro, pensé que sería una historia rosa y cliché sobre amor adolescente, pero la verdad esta historia es todo menos linda.El inicio es brutal, ya que nos plantea un am
Y digan lo que quieran, pero eso no es sano, ninguna relación con ese tipo de base es imposible que funcione.Obviamente la lógica no es una característica de este libro, ya que mágicamente para nuestros protagonistas este tipo de relación funciona y terminan teniendo su felices para siempre.Hablando de lógica, Amber estuvo 2 veces en el hospital, ella es menor de edad, y aun así los Doctores nunca preguntan por sus padres o tutor.
I can't believe this book is getting 5 star reviews!i read the book on wattpad and didn't think it was that good even in comparison to the standard of books uploaded to wattpad.
Basically, i think that this book shouldn't have been published(but well done for doing so anyway) It should have stayed on wattpad where it belonged.
There are so many better books on wattpad that deserve to have been published(A touch of poison, the replacement girlfriend,..), and it's a shame that out of all the books that could have been chosen this is the one that was picked :C(sorry)
I don't know how I managed to finish this book.
What kind of mother who wouldn't protect her children from her abusive husband?
That abusive husband of hers SHOULD have been reported to the police earlier before he screwed up another family.
She was abused and doesn't want anyone touching her aside from Jake, Liam and her mother.
(If you know what I mean.) Also, some of the main character's friends are whiny like her.
These girls are *%#@@#Fj annoying!The High school setting and how the students act?
Not a good example of High school image at all.
Not all students are like that.
VERY low 3 stars That said, and call me crazy, but I still liked this book. A lot. I would classify it as a B-movie that you simply love.
Your love of this book is going to be totally dependent on your ability to overlook flaws.
Flaws in the form of some pretty cheesy dialogue (though not the entire time), a rocky execution, and some unbelievable situations.
The parentless situations are pretty unbelievable and most of the time you'll be screaming, "Where the hell are all the adults?', but the author makes it work for and with the story.The story has some okay bits, some good bits, some really good bits, and even some naughty bits (quite a few actually)!!
I really enjoyed this book. Loved the relationship between Amber and Liam. Liam was great, what a guy! Also really liked Jake and his relationship with his sister. Overall a really great book I would recommend!
Original review can be found on Read Runner.I read this book because the synopsis seemed intriguing: Amber and her brother Jake grew up with an abusive father.
Years after their father left, Amber is still dealing with the effects of her trauma.
I was stunned at how a book marketed as a YA novel had so many sexual references, from the contest the girls in the high school craft to win Liam (panty peekings at school?
really?), to the many references to Amber’s thong, to the objectification of Amber (and Liam and Jake).
