https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/877614.Gallipoli
Rupert Brooke thrilled to the idea that he might fight on the wine-dark Homeric seas, as part of what was romantically called the "Constantinople Expedition," the young poet's dream of war, as Moorehead defines it, "the Grecian frieze, the man entirely heroic and entirely beautiful, the best in the prescence of death." At the outset, at the embarkation, their hearts are light, as hearts always are if you have a large force on your side and nothing but space to oppose you.
The Allied and the Turkish forces fought bravely, often in desperate battles for small gains in the historic lands near where Xerxes crossed the Hellespont, Achilles and Hector fought on the Trojan Plain, where you can swim between Asia and Europe in an hour.
The naval campaign to force the Dardenelles was new to me, I thought the land campaign started at the same time but no, The RN and the French tried to break through to the Sea of Marmara first.
(hide spoiler)]The initial landings by the British, ANZACs and the French are covered in all their confusion.
This was my ANZAC octave reading.
Comfortable in the heady debates of admirals as with life in the trenches, Moorehead covers the social and political ground as best an anyone i know.I discovered in the pages of this book the ANZAC's who are worth remembering but not idolizing; a campaign that richly construed was poorly completed; and a fresh appreciation for the horror of war and the humanity that periodically surfaces in the courage and wisdom of minor and great actors in this deadly drama.
I will read this book again, next year.
It was the "war to end all wars," but then it became overshadowed by the next world war.One of the darkest chapters of the war was Gallipoli, an ill-planned, badly executed attempt to break the stalemate by striking into the heart of Germany through Turkey.The naval bombardment did not go right.
The British assigned Australian and New Zealand forces untenable landing areas while reserving far better ones for themselves.
The winters were pestillential and freezing.In the end, the battle at Gallipoli proved even more of a stalemate than the fronts in Western Europe.One thing to note, the Turkish proved to be gentlemen soldiers.
Addressing both the naval campaign and the months of trench warfare, and considering both the Turkish and Allied sizes, Gallipoli impresses with its thoroughness and easy reading despite the grim nature of the work.
He covers the larger maneuvers in full, but during the months of gruesome gridlock breaks way to address the political ramifications of Gallipoli’s floundering, both on the Turkish and Allied sides.
Gallipoli seems nothing if the difficulties of WW1 warfare concentrated into the narrow stretch of the Hellespont.
Not as smooth a read as 1776, but much more satisfying. While this book is written in a clinical, "historical record" type of style, it doesn't lose its humanity. The author tells the story of the war by writing about the struggles and conflicts and heartbreaks of the people involved. As a result, I came away with real knowledge of the events of the Gallipoli Campagin of WWI and real empathy for the men on both sides of the razor wire.
While it is easy to armchair something so thoroughly picked apart by critics, one still comes away utterly incredulous at the stupidity of the British High Command during WWI. Moorehead's version of the telling is a classic and doesn't disappoint. A solid read on the history of this tragic battle.
Now I am sure the many other books written on the subject are great as well however this was surely an eye opener and satisfied my curiosity of the famed disastrous campaign.
Moorehead does more than just gloss over the events that occurred.
Moorehead also focused on the more political aspects of the campaign and was able to show expertly why the campaign failed without having to outwardly state "this is why it failed".
All in All this book serves as a reminder of what happen on that famed penisula already over a hundred years ago and how it should not be forgotten.
I've heard since that he missed some things, got a few just a little off but that this is still the "go to" book for an overview of the battle(s).The invasion of Gallipoli was based on the success that the British Navy had in advancing to Constantinople.
Although they lost several ships and discovered mines that made them turn back, the Government, especially Winston Churchill, thought that an assault on the pennisula would allow the navy to advance and capture the city.
Gallipoli is a little known battle in a poorly understood war and yet it holds a fascination for historians and students of the Great War, for it was on these beaches that Australia is said to have earned its nationhood and against its rocks that Winston Churchill’s career almost floundered.
At the conclusion the shortcomings of the invasion were left behind as a flawless, virtually bloodless evacuation withdrew virtually the whole force with negligible casualties, except of course lo the unlucky few to be personally involved.I am very glad that I read this book.
I know relatively little about World War I and my familiarity with British military figures is sparse.
Moorehead reminds us that things aren't terrible because they just happen to be, they're terrible because we made them that way. And nothing happens in a vacuum. It's pretty depressing, I know, but he also writes pretty well. And there's pictures.
Gallipoli could have been a pivotal moment in the War, but of the one million combatants on both sides, half were casualties and no military objectives were ultimately achieved by the Allies.The writing style in this book is fine but not exceptional, and I do not consider this to be among the more riveting works of scholarship on WWI.
The primary focus is on the British Army and Navy, with considerably less attention devoted to the Turkish perspective and virtually no mention of the German and French involvement in the conflict.My understanding is that this is considered the primary mid-century secondary source for information and analysis about the Gallipoli campaign, so despite its shortcomings, this is a solid overview of an important moment in world history.
Oh dear.In March the British are attacking the straits (narrows) but the Turkish guns are doing their job and the battleships just cannot get through.
Kitchener, Secretary of State for War, informed General Ian Hamilton that he would be commanding the military force that would be sent to the Dardanelles to support the fleet.4000 Australian and New Zealand troops (commanded by William Riddell Birdwood) were brought over from Egypt but then the army had to re-group in Egypt to sort out suppliers which meant the Turkish had time to fortify the peninsula.
45,000 allied soldiers had fallen in the August battles and the British Generals were sent away to be replaced.
From the print edition the correct word is 'thoroughly.'By now there can be little doubt no one proofed the text; even spell check seems to have been repeatedly ignored.page 531"...Hamilton suggested that it might be a godd (sic) thing if..." The correct word from the 1956 text is of course 'good.' In 1956, without benefit of so-called modern technology, publishers could proof and print a book with few if any errors.
For years I had heard about the great battle on the Gallipoli peninsula in World War I.
More recently, Australia and New Zealand commemorated the 100th anniversary of the battle, which was the first in which their armies took part as a component of the British Commonwealth army (if that's the proper term to use.) This book, written over 50 years ago, covers the entire battle.
Unfortunately, it leaves you very frustrated and depressed at the utter stupidity of the commanders and politicians involved in its planning and execution.
If you like to read military history, this book is definitely worth your time.
Having read dozens of books on WWI, relating to the Western Front, I had yet delved into the Eastern aspect off the war--Gallipoli--and why it failed.
Alan Moorehead is a detailed writer who left little to speculation: it was an excellent idea that might have ended the war, but it fell to what many wars and battles fall to--disorganization at the top, and quibbling politicians.
In many ways it smacked of Vietnam, where soldiers fought with bravery but were let down by the ruling powers.
For history buffs, it was a thourough look into a hundred-year-old debacle that was always only one step away from changing the course of history.
Read it in honor of Armistice Day 100th Anniversary. I am fairly versed in the Western front and wanted to learn about the Eastern, specifically the famous Gallipoli campaign. While the writing could have been a bit better, I do feel informed. It was a worthy read.
Alan Moorehead is one of those history writers from the fifties and sixties who wrote for an audience with a longer attention span than today's and had an unerring ability to pick and relate broad but compelling stories.
Outstanding, balanced account of the Gallipoli campaign. The historical details are meticulous, yet the prose makes this history also enjoyable to read.
ExcellentI've read a number of books about Gallipoli and this is one of the best. Well researched and well written.
A great history of courage and folly.
If you have any interest in military history, it is an exceptionally good account of one of the more notorious campaigns of WW I.
It also makes frequent references to the history to previous battles from the time of ancient Greece, and has accounts of the incredible beauty of the area (when it's not being blown apart by artillery fire).
-Brevedad exitosa para situar al lector, narración detallista para contar los hechos.- Género.
Historia.Lo que nos cuenta.
Relato de la realidad sociopolítica y militar pertinente en Turquía antes de la Gran Guerra y durante sus primeros meses, de la situación general y los intereses de los diferentes países protagonistas de contienda, con especial y comprensible protagonismo para el Reino Unido, y de los eventos que llevaron a la concepción y planificación del desembarco anfibio en la península de Gallipoli en los Dardanelos, el desarrollo de la propia operación y sus consecuencias a muchos niveles.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
I understand that there is some criticism of this book, but I felt that it captured the essential narrative of the Gallipoli campaign and its failings.
The underlying thesis of the work is that although the campaign was extraordinary poorly executed on the part of the allies, the mission itself was one that would have shortened the war considerably, and perhaps reshaped all of Europe before the Second World War. Ultimately, Gallipoli is one of the most important campaigns in its historical lessons to future amphibious assaults.
Interesting, disappointing, and well written, I would encourage others to read this book-- and not let the campaign disappear into history
Continuing my exploration of Australian history and literature.
Sad and depressing book.
The plan of attack on the Dardanelles was not the worst plan of World War I.
In fact, it was better than most.
But it was a sideshow and the failure of the original landing, which was the largest amphibious assault up to that time, doomed the expedition to ultimate failure.
Gallipoli was the birth of Australia and New Zealand as countries, marked by the tremendous courage of their soldiers, fighting half a world from home.
It is certainly true that to understand Australia and Australians, it is necessary to understand this battle.
The most thrilling fact comes from what Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said after the war; "Those heroes that shed their blood and lost their lives ...
You are now lying in the soil of a friendly country.
Therefore rest in peace.
There is no difference between the Johnnies and the Mehmets to us where they lie side by side here in this country of ours ...
You, the mothers who sent their sons from faraway countries, wipe away your tears; your sons are now lying in our bosom and are in peace.
After having lost their lives on this land they have become our sons as well."
Written in the 1950's, Moorehead does an admirable job of exploring the foray into what-might-have-been. Blunder after blunder prevented the Allies from penetrating to Constantinople and taking the Gallipoli peninsula and one can only wonder what might have happened had they succeeded. Moorehead focuses less on the battles than on the political/military machinations in the background and what life was like on the ground with the soldier.
Una de las mejores narraciones militares que he leído, junto a "Los cañones de agosto". Sin dejarse ninguna información relevante, trata los temas militares de manera amena, centrándose en los protagonistas de la batalla. Habla tanto de un bando como del otro, tanto de mandos como de soldados rasos, sin ser una aburrida recopilación de cartas o descripciones.
I have always wanted to know the nuts and bolts of the military disaster that was Gallipoli.This book gave me that but it was just too mundane. It was merely a list of events interspersed with short personal accounts. There wasn't enough emotion for me or how the soldiers felt.Excellently researched and professionally set out but just very difficult to read.
It may have been written in 1956 but it still went a long way in helping me picture and understand the situation in Gallipoli. What a shambles, so many needless deaths, such inadequate leaders - a situation where nothing was gained, where the main thing to be proud of was the miraculous retreat, the safe removal of so many beleaguered soldiers.
