https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285205.Blood_Bound
Re-read on audio 2017 and still 5 stars! ❤️
✘ Now You See Me Now You Don't Express Buddy Read (NYSMNYDEBR™) with Nafeeza, Layla and Ange ✘☠ DNF at 21% *pats her little self on the exoskeleton for making it that far*Okay, I was going to do the Cut the Crap Thing (CtCT™), but I just noticed the cover for this book and am consequently slightly pissed off, so this might take longer than originally planned.
And here we are.[This is were the supposedly crap-cutting review supposedly begins]Sooooooo, I only read three chapters of this fascinatingly delightful little book because:① It's boring to death.
As Mercy, Stefan and other vampires and werewolves combine to try to track down and kill or neutralize Littleton, it becomes apparent that there are some characters with a hidden agenda whose goals may not align with Mercy’s and humanity’s best interests.
Blood Bound, the second book in the Mercy Thompson series, is a strong urban fantasy and mystery that builds on the world Patricia Briggs created in Moon Called.
The plot and the underlying mystery in Blood Bound are a clear step above that in the first volume, Moon Called.Content notes: Lots of death and violence, but the gore factor isn't overwhelming.
She wants a simple life, even though she's a walker, a coyote shapeshifter, who is up to her neck in werewolf politics, not to mention vampire and fae issues.
And Mercy is surrounded by men (wolves/vamps) who are used to exerting their dominance, but she navigates her way through this testosterone-laden world without losing her sense of self, or control over her own life.The men in this series.
I don't think I could handle having to wait a long time for the next books in the series, then!If you're looking for a really good urban fantasy series with a heroine that you will fall in love with, I recommend this series.
What they stumble upon is a powerful threat that Mercy can’t let stand and before you know it, she’s waist high in dangerous vampire politics.
Like most UF’s I’ve picked up, Mercy Thompson has a new mystery/problem to overcome with each book and also a continuing story arc that progresses, bit by bit in each installment.
(hide spoiler)]Now that Mercy looks back, though, she doesn’t regret the situation, because she realizes now that Samuel, as dominant as he is, would’ve wrapped her up in a protective cocoon and stifled her independent spirit.
Mercy must share her memory with the vampire seethe in a bloody and creepy way so that the queen Marsilia does not kill Stefen for bringing unwelcome attention to the vampires.
In a side plot, a reporter hounds Mercy, and she ends up giving him a lecture and a half about werewolves, while in the main storyline, Mercy and the reader learn almost everything there is to know about vampire politics, vampire skills, sorcerers and demons.
The editors must not have expected readers to have read book one, as much of chapters one through three review Mercy's identity, her history with Samuel and her recent history with Adam.
I couldn't resist - I wanted to wait and leave more time between books in this series, but after reading the first book, I'm hooked and it's going to be difficult not to binge read these all!My only complaint (view spoiler)[She BETTER NOT hook up with Samuel and it looked like she was leaning that way - I'm team Adam all the way! Also I'm not a fan of love triangles in general. Okay, rant over ;) (hide spoiler)]
I’m beginning to understand why this series has such a large fan base!The first book in this series certainly was promising but I found that a combination of Mercy’s dry tone narrative and a lack of action made it hard for me to get into the story.
This time around I had a little trouble in the beginning, but soon after I got drawn into an engaging and exciting story in where the ever helpful Mercy gets sucked into vampire business (no pun intended).
In the mean while, we learn more about Briggs' world of vampires, Fae and werewolves.
[4.5 Stars]I'm honestly completely loving this series!
On the surface it doesn't seem to be sexist: Mercy abhors the way women are treated in the werewolf pack; she is strong and resourceful and of course has to save the day.
Mercy knows this and tries to distance herself somewhat but she keeps getting sucked in.
She tolerates horrific violence and human rights violations by the werewolves because it's the way they are but she is completely repulsed and terrified of a vampire who will not kill because he knows Mercy doesn't want him to but ends up having to off to near-dead half-vampire/half-humans to save her life?
The plot, the story idea, the characters are there, but they are constantly smothered by Mercy going on and on about her hormones when she's around either of 2 alpha werewolves.
This can be a fatal flaw for a book if you (the reader) detest long constant dialogues, monologues and any other kind of "logues" taking up 50%+ of the book.I'm sure the parts of this book that have brought about my dropping the series are the very parts that will keep some reading (I almost named a friend here who I know loves romances paranormal and otherwise...but I don't want to get into trouble).If you like this and it's your cup of tea, enjoy.
Blood Bound, the 2nd book in Patricia Briggs Mercy Thompson Series is just as good as the 1st book, Moon Called.Mercy Thompson is a heroine that I absolutely love.    She has the qualities I admire – strengths and flaws and not afraid to face the obstacles in her life.    She is evolving and discovering her power…..   The plot revolves around Mercy being asked by Stefan, her vampire friend, to help him hunt down a vampire/sorcerer in league with a demon and a danger to the people she cares and l
The plot revolves around Mercy being asked by Stefan, her vampire friend, to help him hunt down a vampire/sorcerer in league with a demon and a danger to the people she cares and loves.
Even though Mercy feels torn between helping Stefan and perhaps betraying her friends, she can’t refuse someone who has stood by her and helped her in the past.Mercy’s attraction towards Adam are is undeniable…
and she is conflicted further by her feelings for Samuel, the werewolf from her past and Stefan, her vampire friend.
Buddy read with some friends at Buddies Books and BaublesSo I still haven't fully warmed up to this series.
But while I like Mercy, I cannot get myself to care for most of the other characters.
(view spoiler)[This is the second book (and it is the second book in the series) in a row where our badass dangerous alpha male gets kidnapped and Mercy has to save him.
I don't care much about Samuel or Bran or Stefan either.
So what with Mercy living with Samuel, making out with Adam and letting Stefan kiss her...
Let's give book 3 a try.
The creature they meet there isn't just any vampire and Mercy, Stefan, and the rest of her close friends all get thrown into a conflict with a being more evil than they could have imagined.This series's best quality is the characters.
There's been so many series I've gotten frustrated with because I'd forgotten who a character was and I'd sit their with it in the back of my mind trying to figure out who they were and this would kind of ruin the story for me.The villain in this book was actually scary too!
One thing that I enjoy about re-reading books in series that I love is seeing how many things have changed for the characters.
I love how some of the groundwork for future events takes root in earlier books.The characters in this series are wonderful.
This book actually has a pretty big cast of characters and I really love them all.
I think it takes real skill to bring such a big group of characters to life.The world building in this series is phenomenal.
I love this series and I think that I might have liked this book even more the second time around.
Mercy faces them all bravely and it turns out that her feminine ways of doing things are more effective than all the macho werewolf snarling in the world.
My impressions of Stefan (a character I like very much) are morphing—he is changing from a supernatural buddy into someone tall, dark, and dangerous!The more I learn about Briggs’ paranormal world, the more I like it.
So I’ll be very glad if Mercy chooses one of them in the next book or two and we can get on with sub-plots that are of more interest to me.
Blood Bound, the second book in the Mercy Thompson series was definitely better than the first!
There was a purpose straight from the beginning and of course, I can’t complain since Stefan has a considerable amount of page time!Mercy, my new favourite heroine, finds herself in a bit of a situation involving the seethe and a certain demon-riding vampire named Cory Littleton.
She loves ending books with the Mercy-Adam-Samuel love triangle.
I thought some scenes dragged on a little too long, such as Mercy’s second visit to Stefan’s menagerie.
I'd love to say this series just didn't work for me and move on.
Mercy's decision of (view spoiler)[go hunting Andre (hide spoiler)] was so welcomed, I really needed her to be on her own, making the hard decisions.
Stop just letting shit happen to you, girl and take control.
you make me feel this way!" card.Never read a book about skinwalkers so I can't say much about that but I'd like a more proactive Mercy in the future, I respect her more now and I need to see her as the strong heroine I know she is.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It sounds like an easy way for Mercy to return the favor she owes Stefan but she should have realised things are never simple when it comes to vampires.I really enjoyed Moon Called but I thought that Blood Bound really stepped things up a gear.
We get to learn more about Mercy's unique abilities as a Walker, abilities that are going to come in very handy in this book.Mercy has to show a lot of strength to face her enemies in Blood Bound, I'm really enjoying watching her character grow and of course you have her 2 werewolf admirers Adam & Samuel still fighting for her attention.
I even like the "solving case" theme, and that means a lot because I lose interest in books like that very quickly if I don't have romance in it.I didn't expect a magic burst of romance, but I also didn't expect the second book to show less about romance than the first.
I also did not expect (view spoiler)[ for alpha of werewolves to be needing rescuing AGAIN!!!!!
I mean, really?!
I hope in third installment Adam won't be needing rescuing AGAIN, because I really wanna see more of him in this series.
(hide spoiler)]
When a new vampire enters the area without paying his respects, Mercy's vampire friend Stefan asks her to provide him with back up while he lays down the law.
As the carnage increases Mercy, Stefan and the werewolves from the trip-city area join forces to hunt down the demon-vampire before the demon takes over and the real carnage begins.
Sometimes I look at ratings for books on Goodreads and find myself getting all righteous and indignant.
It really deserves the high rating it has and I'll add my 5 Stars to it.
Great story! Not a fan of the love triangle tension (and it irks me doubly because I actually like both guys at this point, gods damn it) but otherwise I was fascinated. At one point there was the image of a vampire flanked on either side by werewolves and that was just SO badass. Looooooove this genre and really looking forward to the next Mercy book! In the meantime, I gotta hunt down the first two A&O books. (bc CHARLES, okay << don't mind me drooling over here)
I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of this book.
I enjoyed the werewolf and vampire politics.
I loved that Mercy was able to manoeuvre herself through the myriad of behaviors so that she would not offend or incite either werewolf or vampire.
In werewolf politics, a mate holds the same rank, so Mercy is treated with the respect due to an Alpha.
It will be interesting to see who Mercy will choose.The villain in this book is so destructive and evil.
I am really enjoying this series and I can’t wait to read the next book.
I enjoyed the second book in the series as well. There was one really creepy scene where a scary vampire was trying to get into Mercy's trailer at night while she was alone. There wasn't very much progression with Mercy's feelings toward Adam or Samuel but she does figure out some things. The action scenes were good and the story was fun to read.
Also all these power games with the male wolves are really getting on my nerves (view spoiler)[honestly Adam's explanation about his calming effect on Mercy that her coyote wants to submit to his wolf subconciously was kind of a deal-breaker for me, eventhough I do understand that it's not something Adam is after and he tries to respect her boundaries, I still didn't like at all!!
I really REALLY want to like this series but I'm not sold yet.
I am now absolutely a Mercy Thompson 110% fan (and a Patricia Briggs fan)!!!
Also, there was a little bit more development in the romance department with BB: Sexy Time with Adam (No, not sex unfortunately.
Don't I wish!), Macking with Samuel, and Whispering Sweet Nothings with Stefan.
Because that's just ridiculous.I continued to love all the characters in this continuance of the series.
The characters in this series rock.One thing I noticed while I was reading Blood Bound--and that I love--is that Mercy always seems to be saving Adam.
I think it's hilarious, and quite a change from other typical books where the males always have to rescue the females.So. Another winner from Mercy Thompson and Patricia Briggs.
I'm absolutely loving this re-read.
*sighs happily*Original review:What a fabulous sequel to Moon Called.
Mercy continues to be the smart, capable, and still slightly vulnerable heroine that I grew to love in the first book.
She'd do damn-near anything for those she loves.I said it in the review for Moon Called, and it continues here.
The first book, I can freely admit, is a bit convoluted in the plot that is the main storyline.
This one is much cleaner, building slowly, with a bunch of twists and yet doesn't feel too messy.
*** 4.25 ***  I am truly enjoying this Mercy Thompson series!
This time around Mercy's gang has to deal with a demon ridden vampire and life in the tri-city aeria is dangerous for all living things.
Mercy is way out of her league, but it seems falks are ready to throw her under the bus...
I was hoping we could avoid this UF syndrome, but I guess until she chooses a mate we will have to put up with it...As a whole, this is a very pleasant series and a fun read!
Have fun reading, y'all :-) !!!
Review from first read 06/26/11 to 06/28/11Make up your mind Mercy, pick one of the guys (Adam pleas
