https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92610.Rocannon_s_World
As the main part of this novel begins, Rocannon’s colleagues and their spaceship are blown up by galactic rebels, leaving Rocannon stranded and alone with the natives of the planet.
My imagination was captured by the origin of the ansible in this novel, a concept so useful that it has been adopted not only by Orson Scott Card but many other SF authors.Rocannon’s World will probably be of interest primarily to Le Guin completists and readers who love retro science fiction, but I don’t regret the time I spent in this world.Next up: Planet of Exile.
I recently discovered it had been reprinted, so I finally scored a copy and gave it a much belated read.It started as I expected (odd that, isn't it?), and the early moments of Rocannon's time on the world that would be named for him were fascinating, then things took a strange meandering turn.
And that's what the book was, a journey around this world, meeting new alien races, meeting races we already knew, and generally watching Rocannon make myths for the natives with his strange looks and powerful (though simple to him) technology.
It was good, I was digging the ride, but there was none of that transcendent LeGuin stamp.
Le Guin: Hainish Novels and Stories, Vol. 1.
It was Ursula Le Guin's first published novel (1966) and the beginning of her Hainish Cycle, 'Rocannon's World' is beautiful literature and not just poetic SciFi. It reads like a Space Opera told with Fantasy characters in the style of The Saga of Gunnlaug Serpent-tongue, or some other Norse myth.Negatives?
It was a bit short, a bit light, but I can excuse most of that knowing that Le Guin is simply building a grand story and this is just one clever brick, one stone in the crown that will be Hainish.
Ekumen scientist Rocannon is interrupted in his mission on a primitive world by an attack from the League's enemies.
All of a sudden he finds himself fighting with and leading the natives in the struggle, and grows into a revered legend.Rocannon's World is the first published novel of Ursula K.
Le Guin, and the first instalment in the so-called Hainish cycle.
It is unfortunately also definitely the weakest book I've read by her, but that hardly means that it was disappointing.
Only that it didn't reach the remarkably high standards set by her later books.Overall, it was an enjoyable read with gorgeous writing.
This novel also introduced Le Guin’s brilliant Hainish Cycle, where she describes the universe as having been settled and re-discovered by a race founded on Hain (not Earth, or Terra) as she identified our planet.
Le Guin also introduced her instant communicator, the ansible, that has been used in other author’s books and has proven a uniquely necessary concept in the science fiction genre.
This is interesting, and fun, and reveals some of the talent that Le Guin would later display in mastery.
Le Guin’s description of different alien races was vaguely reminiscent of Edgar Rice Burroughs.
Often, these items act as tangible moral forces, metaphors-made-real.Each subgenre has pilfered from the other, so we have seen the tales of John Carter of Mars and Star Wars, fantasy stories with sci fi trappings, and also fantasy stories where magic becomes a replacement for technology, operating by a system of rules as thoroughly described as any technophile digression.But there has always been room for stories which work between these genres, which use the concepts of both in conjunction, producing from the combination of things familiar a story which feels novel.
If you find a novel of hers published earlier then I stand corrected, but the point is that Rocannon's World is one of UKL's earliest published works, and it shows the talent, vision, and style that would make her such a popular author in the coming decades.
UKL also has a fondness of the romantic and fantastic, a fondness that she would temper with realism in her later books, making her story lines a little more believable, relatable.
But Rocannon's World is Romantic and Fantastic, not so much relatable.I enjoyed this book, found it relaxing, but got a little bored in a couple places and found myself sighing at the corniness in others.
Zvučala je zanimljive no što je bila . Šteta , odlično je krenula sa prologom i pričom o izgubljenoj ogrlici . Zatim je , nažalost , propala u dosadi .Veliki plus : naslućuje se predivan stil pisanja . Ipak je ovo njena prva knjiga pa na nekim mjestima koči .Minus ( za ovo izdanje ): očajan prijevod . Prolog sam pročitao da nisam ni skužio o čemu se radilo .Siguran sam da je ovo jedna od najslabijih , ako ne i najslabija knjiga od Ursule . Očekujem mnogo bolje "nastavke" .
Llevaba toda la vida preparándome para leer a Ursula K.
Le Guin y no siquiera lo sabía.
Y espero que este cuento sea la carta de presentación de lo que me espera al leer el resto de su obra.Y no es tanto por la historia de esta novela si no por todas las implicaciones que hay detrás.
Una construcción de mundo apenas inexistente que ha creado un universo en cuatro pinceladas.
La próxima vez que alguien me diga que la mejor descripción de fusión es el flamenco-jazz le voy a estampar un libro de Le Guin en su cara.
I was somewhat relieved to see that most Le Guin fans aren't that crazy about this particular early book, so maybe I can still try something else of hers at some point and see if I can stomach it better.But honestly I don't know if I can handle the whole sci fi "thing," though the fact that I can't bothers me a bit, since I don't quite understand why that is.
Maybe that should make the game way cooler to watch, but it might actually just make the whole thing more boring.This is probably a problem that goes away once one becomes a seasoned sci fi/fantasy reader, but I have a feeling that's something that won't happen to me.
Le Guin was one of my favorite writers of what I call "recreational literature." Rocannon's World was her very first novel, published in 1966, the year I came to live in Southern California.
With all those anthropological genes running in her veins, Ursula has managed to add a unique twist to her writing.Rocannon's World is full of many many peoples and cultures.
With all these cultures rubbing up against one another, Ursula's writing is like a rich tapestry:The little Name-Eaters, the Kiemhrir, these are in old songs we sing from mind to mind, but not the Winged Ones.
One of my biggest annoyances with fantasy, handed down from Tolkein to much of what followed, are the racial hierarchies that seem to go unanalyzed.
LeGuin, though here taking on high fantasy epic-quest tropes in a sci-fi context, seems to be aware of these same problems, implying that one's identification with others in such contexts is a matter of racial/cultural bias and perspective, rather than anything definitive.
She could have done more with this -- the story being more actually quest than analysis thereof -- but it's nice to get the sense that she was thinking about such things.
I read Rocannon’s World after I read Ender’s Game, so this was an “ah-ha!” moment for me.)So Rocannon collects a small group of companions and sets out across the planet on a quest to find the enemy base.
Along the way he meets a few different cultures, some who are typical residents of high fantasy literature — castle-dwelling lords of a feudal society; the Fiia, who are like elves; the underground Clay People, who are like dwarves, etc.
What Rocannon gets out of his mission is not something he expected.Rocannon’s World has elements of both science fiction and fantasy — a technologically advanced star-traveler visits and charts the unknown species on a backward planet.
My culturally learned nostalgia for heroic-feudal societies is a part of my psyche I've disciplined somewhat with critical consciousness, and I had to sort of soothe myself into this with the assurance that Le Guin wouldn't indulge in some decidedly Tolkiensque world building without an eye on the real injustices such writing often glorifies or naively capitalises on.
Anyway, I always give points for writing brown people in fantasy/sf who aren't congenitally evil...Aside from the deeply likeable Rocannon, Le Guin attends carefully to the other characters, especially Mogien, Yahan and Kyo, who are suitably alien in their personalities, yet highly sympathetic.
Po raz kolejny przekonałam się, że Le Guin chyba lepiej wychodzą opowieści fantasy niż sci-fi. Świat Rocannona bardzo mi się podobał na tej samej zasadzie co "Władca Pierścieni". Chodzi o te legendy ukryte w mroku dziejów, legendy, które okazują się prawdziwe. Bardzo mi szkoda tych bohaterów i przez całą historię przebija nieskończony smutek, ale to tylko dodaje smaczku całej opowieści.Zobaczymy co będzie dalej, bo "Lewą rękę ciemności" czytałam bardzo dawno temu, chyba jeszcze w gimnazjum i wtedy strasznie mnie zmęczyła i znudziła. Ale - jak to mówią - do niektórych powieści się dorasta, a z innych wyrasta.
Rocannon, anthropologist and wanderer, sets out on a quest of revenge and justice. Brilliant storytelling. The alien world is alive and believable. I can see the far future of humanity following the same paths as Rocannon.
So, so, so good and unique. Mi-as fi dorit sa fie putin la lunga.
This is Ursula K Le Guin's debut science fiction novel.
The first book of hers that I read was the great Left Hand of Darkness, the fourth in the Hainish cycle of which Rocannon's World is the first.
The Hainish cycle isn't a series, per se, and so it really doesn't seem to matter the order in which they are read.
Rocannon's World is science fiction.
Now, after reading Rocannon's World, I expect to read all of her Hainish cycle books, and probably quite a few more.*The ansible is a device that allows instantaneous communication over interstellar distances.
W czytaniu Ursuli Le Guin jest coś z melancholii, że wszystko, o czym pisze, już się wydarzyło: czytelnik – tak jak i część jej bohaterów – staje zatem w roli obserwatora. Nic nie da się zmienić, los już się wypełnił, stoimy w prześwicie historii, która już po części została opisana, skatalogowana i zmityzowana. Nie ma nad czym płakać – można się tylko przyglądać.http://pierogipruskie.blogspot.com/20...
Siempre es un buen plan para todo amante de la Fantasía y la Ciencia Ficción leer la primera novela de una de las maestras del género en el último siglo.En este cuento podemos ver ya los pilares en lo que se basarían los puntos fuertes de Le Guin: la atmósfera, el lenguaje, la construcción de las sociedades...El argumento es el típico del viaje del héroe y su conversión, con un trasfondo que deja ver que el universo que crea Le Guin es mucho mayor.
On this planet, a young woman (Semley) goes to find her family's dowry to bring to her husband, which is a shiny gold and sapphire necklace that was given as tribute to the Ekumen's uplifted race, the Gdemiar (think cave-dwelling dwarves) and made its way to a museum in Ekumen space.
Then book really takes off when Rocannon takes an ethnological expedition to Fomalhaut II and his team is intercepted by Faraday gunships.
. I didn't think I'd be returning to the Hainish Cycle after reading Left Hand but here I am, continuing to enjoy her work.
I think it is a brilliant premise for a series, but it is most extraordinary for Le Guin's talent at creating entire worlds in each of her books, complete with different races/species, cultures, rituals, and meanings.
It grounds the book in the human condition, while tantalizing us with the possibilities of the imagination.Although Le Guin has called this book a mix of sci-fi and fantasy, it feels solidly in the science fiction category to me, as everything that happens in the book can be explained by science, or at least, postulated by science.
Ursula uvijek divna....
Nonetheless, it's not as cringe-worthy as this paperback reprint's cover makes it seem.Anyone familiar with Le Guin's work will end up being disappointed, I suspect, not because Rocannon's World is bad but because Le Guin gets so much better as she goes on.
From an academic perspective, this book is interesting because it already contains many of the themes Le Guin revisits in later novels.
As we see in her later Hainish novels, Le Guin uses relativity as a wonderful plot device while also exploring the psychological implications of such forms of space travel.
Rocannon is on an surveying mission, part of the League of all Worlds (an alliance of planets, mostly descended from colonization efforts from the planet Hain, uniting the "nine known worlds").The Prologue of this novel named "The Necklace" is actually my favourite part of the story, which is based of a woman named Semley from a race that is very tall and yellow haired.
Before this novel the prologue of Semley was from a short story in the Amazing Stories (September 1964) as "The Dowry of the Angyar".All in all a truly great tale, the only flaw that it was too short in my opinion, but hey, isn't that a good thing though?
The main plotline is not very interesting and is resolved very lazily, but since the main meat of the book consists of demonstrating the culture of the different species living on Fomalhaut II it could have been forgiven.
Unfortunately, Rocannon's anthro/ethnological perspective makes him seem like someone with no training whatsoever in the field.
Additionally, her attempt to use fantasy tropes in a sci-fi ethnological perspective only turns the different species' cultures into underdescribed, bland things that barely have enough definition to be called cardboard.
It's Le Guin's first, and you can tell it's an early book because of a tiny bit of clunkiness, a few too-convenient coincidences, and some SF/F elements that don't quite follow the rules (which she points out herself in the introduction that's included at the end of the Library of America volume I read it in).
I'm looking forward to reading the other Hainish novels in this collection.
Five stars for gorgeous writing, the invention of the ansible which I think had its first appearance in this book, and the promise of even better stories to follow this one.
A lovely 2.5 star story, but I would recommend that if you are new to LeGuin that you read some of her more famous and later stories first to determine if she (as an author) is right for you.
Another thing, reading this book really points to the pompous verbosity of many modern writers.
I sometimes wish that all modern authors were forced to prove and hone their writing chops by creating several well-received short story submissions before being awarded a contract to write books.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
I like to start at the beginning, and in the Le Guin omnibus edition I got from the library, Rocannon's World was a tempting ninety pages long.
I could have started anywhere, since in some cases a millennium passes between narratives, but I still like the idea to seeing how Le Guin's writing and sense of her future world develops in the real time of her composition.Ninety pages, but since I was reading a bargain omnibus edition they were longish pages.
