https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556527.Barometer_Rising
I do not read war stories, despite proudly supporting Canadian work and nearly gave “Barometer Rising” five stars.
I became informed about “The Halifax Explosion” a few years ago; the worst in history.
The revelation does not occur and on his way to be surprised by them, Hugh thought it sufficient to close the novel!
A downgrade to four stars also honours a horse, whom Neil did not assist out of the snow!I was impressed otherwise.
Imagine, a woman making headlines as a ship-building engineer in 1917 and shown as composedly-intelligent and confident, in a 1941 novel!
2-1/2The best part of this book is the description of the Halifax Explosion and the aftermath.
The best character in this book is Halifax.Unfortunately, it was paired with a laboured reworking of Odysseus returning to Ithaca to deal with the suitors; naming your character Penny, really?
That's what Odysseus said to his wife when he got home." The book is further marred by too many musing of the vast landmass in the background; the fruitful prairies and majestic Rockies are brought into the foreground too often.
CanLit got better when it stopped trying to be CanLit.
The foreword sets the stage when it says that this book "is one of the first ever written to use Halifax, Nova Scotia, as its sole background." Then it blew my mind by saying that there was "as yet no tradition of Canadian literature" at the time Barometer Rising was originally published (1941).
The barometer mentioned in the title gave me pause, but I can guess that the fact that it's rising means that the pressure is increasing throughout the story -- the confrontation between the various parties involved in the Neil MacRae affair has to come to a head after the tension of the days leading up to the Explosion, which blows everyone's world apart and changes things radically.
We read this for my Canadian Literature class. There are three major things in it: nationalism, sexism, and some good old fashion cousin-love. If you don't enjoy reading about any of those things, this is maybe not the book for you. If you think that a book set during WWI in Halifax at the time of the Halifax explosion is going to be action-packed and about either of those events, you're mistaken. Prepare yourself for a lot of introspection, and all of the sexism. But actually. So much.
The various descriptions of the city and daily life were vivid and took me right to those places that I know reasonably well.
How can you not love this language: "There were fine days with westerly winds and you could smell the odour of spruce trees in the downtown streets and the atmosphere of the place was like a tonic.
But there were almost as many wet days when Halifax was worse than any town he could remember, when the fog isolated it from the ocean and the forests until there was nothing to see but steaming pavements and the bells moaned in the distance and the stained old buildings seemed to expect the bad weather to go right on to the end of the world."
I wish we had read this in high school or university for Canadian Lit or History. Much better than reading Atwood! Though slow to start, I really liked the story overall. The author wove the the characters together and apart very well. The beginning part was a little slow though, but started to pick up closer to the explosion. I like how the "trivial" things in life were set aside with the explosion and it's aftermath. I thought it was interesting that the father was all but forgotten about until Neil literally stumbled upon him.
I really enjoyed this novel, much more than I expected. I can't believe no teacher or professor ever encouraged me to read it. I found it to be a wonderful reflection on Canadian history and Canadian identity.
A classic in Canadian Literature. You need to read this in order to understand where Canadian Fiction has come from and possibly to understand some of the incidents that formed Canada as a nation. You don't need to read this if what you are looking for is a can't put it down tale told with verve.
First book I ever read set in Halifax. Started my obsession with the history of the Halifax Explosion.
Good story, I liked how Halifax was just as much a central character as the people. The ending was a bit abrupt or unfinished to me though.
Starts off a little slow, but ends with a bang.
If you have ever visited that small, but charming city, you would probably enjoy reading this novel just for nostalgia's sake.
A competent, but not great writer, MacLennan portrays pleasingly rounded characters who are not stiff or one dimensional and weaves a plot that resolves itself in various ways on the occasion of the huge explosion that destroyed most of Halifax on Dec. 6, 1917, the biggest man-made explosion in history before the nuclear age.
In 1917, the largest non-nuclear explosion in the world occurred in Halifax harbour when two ships collided, one loaded with munitions and highly flammable material.
This novel is set during the days before and after the Halifax Explosion.
Neil MacRae was assumed to have died in the war but he's alive and has come back to Halifax to clear his name.
The man who was instrumental in Neil's name being besmirched is Geoffrey Wain and the man who might be able to help clear his name is Alec MacKenzie.
This is an eloquent book about the destruction of World War I on Canadian soldiers, and the devastating Halifax explosion in 1917.
Neil McCrae's reputation was destroyed because he didn't follow an irrational and dangerous order that was passed to him.
Presumed dead, he returns to Halifax to clear his name.
The interaction is interrupted by the explosion where the whole town comes together to help those who were wounded and dead.
The commentary coming through the thoughts and words of Neil and Murray are moving and provocative.
They are trying to find meaning in the constant tragedies that the war brought.
I knew that this book is a work of historical fiction set in Halifax in 1917, the week surrounding the Halifax Explosion on December 6th.
What I did not know was how the story would be told, and so was pleasantly surprised by the fictional family drama that is interwoven with the history of the event.
Conflicts within the family, combined with the role of Halifax in the Great War and the aftermath of the explosion, and subsequent relief efforts, create a picture of what life was like in Halifax at that time.
The afterword by Alistair MacLeod is a history lesson in itself.
We had to read it in high school and I remembered that I liked it then too but couldn't remember anything about it so was excited when our bookclub chose it this year in memory of the 100th anniversary of the Halifax Explosion.
I believe that having grown up in the Halifax area with a grandmother who had lived in Halifax during the Explosion made the book more relevant to me.
I loved how the author portrayed Halifax as another 'character' and one that I could identify with.
I also loved the portrayal of all the characters - he made them real for me which is what draws me to a book.
MacLennan's novel surrounds the Halifax explosion and the events leading up to it regarding one family, the Wain's.
The Wain family has its own secrets and problems, as ever family does, but their problems have made it into everyone else's life, as it happens in a small town.
I really enjoyed working through this novel an seeing the inner workings of the Wain family.
The explosion is another way to make the reader realize that secrets do not set you free.
I look forward to reading more of Hugh MacLennan's work in the future.
Oh lord, this is awful.
A historical romance set around the Halifax explosion sounds like a terrible concept, and the execution is equally bad.
The setting feels forced; McLennan is very focused on making it authentic, at the expense of the storyline and general readability.
The characters are, on the whole, extremely unlikeable, especially the "hero".
And McLenna's prose is unbelievably melodramatic; he adores his adjectives, which is, honestly, an awful way to write.
When the description of a tragedy as powerful as the Halifax explosion has me rolling my eyes at how even a tragedy is overwrought, that is an awful sign.
I have truly enjoyed reading this book.
Granted, the writing style is old, but it so well written that it does not matter.
What really amazed me is the description of Canada.
MacLennan really understood what this country is all about, the description of the locations (Halifax, Montreal), of its people of Cape Breton and the challenge of this country to define itself - especially at that time - not quite American, and yet no longer quite British.
Reading this book reminded me how much I have enjoyed visiting Halifax and Nova Scotia!This is an amazing event in Canadian history!
This was beautifully written and I loved the additional story line that was put over top of the devastation.
While I didn't find the author going off on separate stories from each character's past that hardly contributed anything to the story, I do have to remember that this was released in 1941.
Overall I had a VERY different experience reading this at 26 than I did for the first time at 17.
I also didn't cry which kind of surprised me considering I cry buckets every time I read the Dear Canada diary No Safe Harbour.
Simply put it's a Canadian classic and (I still think) important reading for those interested in our history.
I knew nothing about the role of Halifax as a major port during WWI or the explosion that occurred there in December 1917. This part of the story was well written, slowly building up to that fatal day. There was a love story enmeshed in with this which I did not feel was as well written. The ending was also not to the same standard. This was the first novel by this author and based on the potential I saw in the first part of the novel, I would definitely read another by him.
The Halifax explosion of 1917 is the backdrop for this story of a disgraced soldier returning to his homeland to confront the man who disgraced him. The relational dynamics are worked out in the two days leading up to the explosion and resolved after its terrible aftermath. Also threaded throughout the story is the reality of Canada's growing national identity.Beautifully written. Compelling. His descriptions of the Halifax explosion were detailed and vivid. One of the best books I've read.
Because i am familiar with Halifax, I loved being able to picture in my mind the events of the book. A wonderful WWI Canadian story.
Enjoyed it very much as I have visited Halifax 4 times and it brought back many happy memories.
Captivating. I loved the way the stories of the individual characters intertwined to make a complete whole. Interesting glimpse into life in Halifax during WW1.
A beautiful meditation on a unique Canadian community and family in crisis.
You can feel the tension in the characters' lives rise as the Halifax explosion draws near.
The novel is a powerful window into the experiences of the individual and the community in the immediate aftermath of the explosion, a fascinating subject that is rarely given attention.This novel is also a thoughtful meditation on what it means to be Canadian, Nova Scotian and Haligonian in a time where Canada's identity and future was anything but certain.
I liked this one! I'm excited to go over it more in class, but even outside of studying it it was a good read. I love the characterization of Halifax--I've never been there, but it was easy to fall in love with it because of this book. I really liked that it's more about the story of the characters than the historical events, though those play a role too. This is a book about people figuring out their identity, their place in the world, both as individuals and as a collective.
Although dated I found much of interest in this 1941 novel of the Halifax, Nova Scotia explosion of 1917. It explores issues concerning the place of Canada in the early twentieth century, 'old country' people from the Highlands of Scotland and those who have been in Canada for four generations. There is also a love story.
I enjoyed the historical aspect of this story and a peek into the personal tragedies and impacts on people's lives from the Halifax explosion. I didn't enjoy the stiff characters. I did appreciate the crap the main female character had to deal with as an engineer in a very macho environment.
This was an excellent book. It was very well written and the characters so alive and believable. I would highly recommend it to everyone.
