https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/736091.Reveille_in_Washington_1860_65
It helps if you have a good general knowledge of the Civil War when reading this, as sometimes Leech jumps forward and back in time, and the focus of the book (as the title implies) is the effect/events in DC. It does feel a little dated in terms of how some of the women are discussed, but Leech is a magnificent writer.
As the frontispiece note to this New York Review Books edition of Reveille in Washington indicates, Leech not only was a successful novelist, playwright, and biographer, but also was “the first woman to win the Pulitzer Prize for History and one of only two people to win it twice”.
Ellsworth’s death was one of the first; over six hundred thousand more deaths would follow.The Civil War years were a time of profound change in Washington, extending to the passage of an emancipation act passed by the Congress and signed by the President in April of 1862.
Either the Civil War was a tedious, meandering parade of daily urban trivia, or this book is a massive disappointment.It’s beautifully written prose; from Margaret Leech’s opening close-up of the 75 year old General Winfield Scott recalled to Washington in December 1860 to her salutatory farewell to the entire principal cast “in the golden light of afternoon” in 1865.
Not lacking in literary indulgence, her narrative appears constrained by strict adherence to the vagueness and provincialism of homespun rumor, pedestrian journals, and local news clippings.Leech offers tantalizing glimpses that something interesting may be happening somewhere.
Brimming with limitless and vivid detail. An extremely intimate history of the District of Columbia during the American Civil War. The people who populate these pages are practically myths and legends - this book introduces us to the human beings that they were. Marvelous.
*****.Ms. Leech garnered the first of her two Pulitzer Prizes for History with this exacting story of the city of Washington during the years of the Civil War. She begins just as Buchanan was leaving office and Lincoln was slated to be sworn in.
Even this simple statement gives rise to numerous tales of the ordeals that Lincoln had to go through just to get to Washington for the ceremony.
When the war began, he was forced to select his top generals from the ranks of old men who had not kept up with modern strategy of warfare.
“That winter, the old General moved from the rooms he had rented from the free mulatto, Wormley, in I Street to Cruchet’s at Sixth and D Streets. His new quarters, situated on the ground floor–a spacious bedroom, with a private dining-room adjoining–were convenient for a man who walked slowly and with pain… “In spite of his nearly seventy-five years and his increasing infirmities, the General was addicted to the pleasures of the table. Before his six o’clock dinner, his black body servant brough
His new quarters, situated on the ground floor–a spacious bedroom, with a private dining-room adjoining–were convenient for a man who walked slowly and with pain…	“In spite of his nearly seventy-five years and his increasing infirmities, the General was addicted to the pleasures of the table.
Yet nothing, to his taste, equaled the delicacy he called ‘tarrapin.’ He would hold forth on the correct method of preparing it: ‘No flour, sir–not a grain.’	"Such was the commanding general of the Army of the United States in December of 1860, but not so did his compatriots see him.
Europe might celebrate the genius of Napoleon; the New World had its Winfield Scott…”	This is Margaret Leech’s introduction to the commander of the Union army in 1860.
It includes stories about the politicians, military leaders, general public, major events and confederate conspirators.
However, it does get really dry at times, especially when the author is describing the various military engagements that occurred in the vicinity of the city throughout the war which often become confusing after the author goes back and fourth from describing other topics.
Although some of the high points included the immense challenges that faced established medical facilities in the city for treating the wounded, descriptions of what everyday life was like for people and the descriptions of their experiences.
A very detailed and interesting history of Washington DC during the civil war period. Told in story form and covers everything from city layout, politics, the first family, medicine, arts, emancipation, secessionists, intrigues, assassination and development of the armies and battles. Washington, then as now, has always been a divisive place. The power in this story, as in all hero stories, is in finding those rare imperfect souls that change the world for the better In spite of the challenges and personal loss. So many of those great individuals in this book.
Cannot recommend this book enough. Leech was a beautiful writer. Though she holds the same perspective as many Civil War historians of her generation, which manifests itself in a bias against the Radical Republicans and in particular Secretary of War Stanton, the chapter leading up to the Lincoln's assassination is alone worth reading the book.
good book
Very interesting take on the Civil War, with an excellent account of the Lincoln presidency and assassination.
An early Pulitzer Prize winner about life in Washington D.C. during the Civil War. Well written and worth the read for history buffs
Terrific read.
The capital throughout the civil war. Well done.
This is a wonderful book about how the Civil War changed the city of Washington from a derided and lampooned muddy "village" with a scattering of buildings to the hub of a national, centralized, federal government.
A fascinating read that made this reader at least wonder how the Union ever won the War.
Margaret Leech brought to life for me what Washington was like during the days when Lincoln walked those streets.
I feel like I could walk down 1860's streets of the city then and somewhat understand the politics, social issues and concerns broiling in such a combative and controversial time.
I enjoyed learning about those leaders serving around Lincoln and am reminded of how a person's political and personal ideas can impact history.
As she won the Pulitzer Prize for this book, that says it all.
I did learn that she was married to Ralph Pulitzer, but in my opinion she did earn the prize for this wonderful work.
I read this book in preparation for a Civil War Round Table trip I was to take but was unable to do so.
Anyone interested in the Civil War, or Washington D.C. will be fascinated by Margaret Leech's very readable scholarly description of life in our nation's capitol during one of our country's most defining moments.
Washington D.C. then, was not the beautiful pristine place it is today.
The Washington Monument was also not finished and there was a slaughter house next to it.
But it was the people who were the most interesting.
Although the book was published in 1941, it's topic is timeless!
Leech’s Reveille in Washington is a full-strength view of the times and temperament of the capital during the Civil War years 1860–1865.
The book almost earned two stars for its plodding middle section, but just as in the war itself the arrival of General Grant on the scene quickened the pace.
Grant was not a “hesitating” general as many of his predecessors had been, but was a relentless challenger as the stream of casualties back to Washington attested.
The book is a bit dated but still a good addition to the literature on the Civil War.
This is an in-depth, highly detailed look at life in Washington D.C. during the Civil War. From James Buchanan's intense desire to get the heck out of town to Edward Stanton's horrific mistreatment of the conspirators who in ways small and large helped John Wilkes Booth to achieve eternal infamy, it's ridiculously enthralling.
It's filled with horribly irritating if benevolently intended (for it was written in 1941) references to "darkys" and "colored people." I learned a ridiculous amount about the Civil War, and I yearn for even more knowledge about such a momentous event in our history.
Highly recommended.
I usually steer clear of Civil War books, they connote a Christmas present for Grandfather too much.
But I was pleasantly surprised at both how much I enjoyed reading this book, and how interesting the subject was.The focus is Washington D.C. during the Civil War, both the politics happening in the Lincoln and local administration, and also the battles fought in the surrounding areas.
I've never been a huge Civil War buff, but I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in Civil War history, both neophytes to the subject, and also Grandfather's with the latest hardcover tomes.
(I should have made more use of the handy appendices in the back of the book.) It was written in the forties, so some words and phrases are out of date, so I had to stop and look things up in the dictionary.I grew up on the West Coast and came away with the simplistic idea that the Civil War was fought over slavery.
I came to the book thirsty for knowledge about the Civil War, and I come way humbled by lack of knowledge about it-- and thirsty to learn more!
I was interested in reading this book as one that would give me a feeling for the 'home front' during the Civil War. Drawing on newspaper accounts, memoirs etc, it does do that.
Much of what Leech presents is quite interesting.
Her presentation of the way various battles affected the mood in Washington was moving , but I felt that I needed more information about the battles to appreciate these changes in mood.
I got bogged down and quit reading about half way through.
If I get to the second half and change my opinion, I'll let you know.
I recommend this especially to other DC locals.
It tells the familiar story from a unique perspective; events unfold not according to straight chronology, but rather the order in which news of them reached the city.
The effect of this for a modern reader is the stark reminder of the great difference of an age in which news was not instantaneous, when setting off on a voyage could lead to gaps of years in getting word about family and friends.
And in the local sense, one realizes how much geography, even at the micro level, shapes war and experience.
This is an excellent book. The book describes life in Washington during the Civil War and reveals valuable insights and anecdotes of a different era in this "southern" city during a time of national crisis. Well-researched and well-written (the book won a Pulitzer Prize) the book was published around 1940. Its writing style reflects the time when it was written; slightly more formal than books hitting the market today. This book is now long forgotten by the public--unfortunately--but it left an indelible impression on me regarding a time long past during our nation's greatest challenge. Highly recommend.
I loved that this book was totally DC-centric; it's a perspective on the Civil War that you don't get very often, but it was one that allowed me to better understand and grasp how the War changed America.
You don't get much information about individual battles (I think Antietam gets about a paragraph and Gettysburg gets about a half a page), but you do get extensive analysis of Washington's reaction to the wins and the losses.
This book gives a fuller picture of what it was really like to be living in America during the Civil War and the style is pretty easy to read.
I would highly recommend it.

I picked up this book in a used bookstore, with no previous knowledge of it. What a serendipitous choice!I thoroughly enjoyed this book as a portrait of Washington in the 1860s. The author's choice of words is a bit out of kilter with the words we would use today (her terms of reference to African Americans would not be today's choice) but her description of the electrifying impact of the Emancipation Proclamation could have been written yesterday. Hats off to Margaret Leech for a well-written and engaging book.
Excellent... Having always been an avid history nerd, this book lent a totally new perspective to the years surrounding the civil war. Events I'd always understood from within the context of the war itself, made totally new sense from the story told from within the capital. It also added considerable depth to my understanding of how the federal ideals transformed prior to this test of our union...
At the time I read this book it was considered a classic and the book and its author had received a Pulitzer.Until I saw it listed I had not thought about it in years. Now I am anxious to find a copy for a re-read.My memory of the book is that it was incredibly well written, entertaining yet scholarly, and gave me the feeling that I was living in the period. Of course I was sixteen when I read it. After I read it again I'll write more.
Well researched topic. Deals with Washington during the Civil War years. Does not focus on the main events such as Lincoln's death or on Gettysburg but rather uses these historical events to discuss the reaction of the populace, politicians, military leaders, etc. to the events. Fascinating book although clearly an historical work.
