https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/937105.Lolly_Willowes
1926), her sister-in-law Caroline is distractedly offering for Laura to live in London with herself and Laura’s brother Henry, following the death of Laura’s father:“Caroline spoke affectionately, but her thoughts were elsewhere.
Autumn, The ChilternsThroughout the rest of the novel, Townsend Warner evokes the wild majesty of the land surrounding Great Mop. As Laura goes on long solitary walks through the lanes, fields, and forests, she opens up more and more to the wilderness around her, and in doing so, taps into a piece of herself that had remained buried until then.
Like “Aunt Lolly,” my dad strongly believes in his role as “father.” If he was in the middle of a conversation and all of a sudden my brother or I did something or said something that was wrong in any way, he would stop, put on the mask and say, “Now, Kelly, remember to be kind and…” like if he didn’t correct me for making fun of someone’s shoes I was going to turn out to be a bad person who kills kittens and it was going to be his fault somehow.
Her family attempts all means at their disposal—including emotional blackmail and financial threats—to undermine her resolve; she nevertheless persists and promptly lets a room of her own, ready to begin a new life distinctly, if somewhat tentatively, her own.If this was the story of Lolly Willowes, it would still be of note as a showcase for Warner’s remarkable facility with language and sinuous approach to syntax; it's additionally exceptional as an early feminist fable making a persuasive and poignant case for female agency (Warner’s novel predates Woolf’s landmark 
Now, Lolly Willowes did have some variation to its name, but when one begins with family lineage and ends with bantering dialogue and leaves little to gnaw upon between the two, it all comes off as very English.
Much like works by white males, there's a lot of English type stuff glutting the literature realms, so if one wants to be good, one must be very, very, very good.
You see, it's a matter of dilution, and not much can be done if a work runs headlong into losing itself in the crowd.There's a tool of online fanfiction known more so by Mary Sue and less so by Gary Stu that, in short, makes deus ex machina a character type.
Lolly goes to nurse, late in the First World War. The recruiting posters have bleached.The ruddy young man and his Spartan mother grew pale, as if with fear, and Britannia's scarlet cloak trailing on the waters bleached to a cocoa-ish pink.
Time will bleach the scarlet from a young man's cheeks, and from Britannia's mantle.
Here, I found it for you:"I shall call it Vinegar," she answered.Because every witch needs a familiar.
Quite different to the way women talk, and men listen, if they listen at all."She is talking to Satan when she says that.
It tells the story of Laura Willowes (“Lolly”), a very independent aging spinster (I dislike that word but that’s the word they use in the book) who lives in England with her brother and his family.
Because she’s single, her family try to control her but it’s obvious that Lolly is very headstrong.I thought the book was going to focus more on her trials as a spinster in the 1920s England.
I also liked how Laura came into her own, realized she didn’t have to live with her family but could survive very well on her own.
I wish I could write in such a way as to convey the rhythms and flavor of Lolly Willowes, which is only one of the things I fell in love with while reading this book.
1874) of Everard Willowes, who spends the first half of her life living in the shadow of others before breaking free from her family to undergo an extraordinary transformation and “finding herself” when she moves to Great Mop and makes a pact with Satan (or does she?).The book is divided into three parts.
It's like Barbara Pym started this story, left it unfinished, and then it was discovered by a manic Satanist who scribbled the rest of it all in one night. I totally enjoyed it, but what a hot mess.
With the help of the Devil.
But not the devil we are often told of--this is a loving huntsman, who catches women's souls to save them from dying by the confines of society.
This is not a sort of compelling, page-turner read but every time I decided to sit down with it, I was completely absorbed and "bewitched." Beautifully and insightfully written.
A shame it's so neglected now and I encourage anyone interested in forgotten "classics," feminist authors, or just a very well-written tale set in England, to seek out this delightful and thought-provoking read.
Born some years after her two elder brothers; Henry and James, Laura grew up almost as an only child, the apple of her father’s eye.
Her elder brothers and their wives take control, it is quickly decided – that despite Laura having a good income of her own left to her by her father – she should go away from the country to London and live with Henry and Caroline and their two young daughters.
Between them; Henry, James and their wives make all the decisions, what furniture Laura will take with her, and how useful she will be.
Laura finds her life suffocated by controlling and overbearing relatives. She takes drastic measures to gain independence. I found the ending strange, this book must have been quite shocking at the time it was published !
This book is really a reflection of that new fast-moving world, as young Lolly Willowes decides to start doing her life the way she wants it done and not pre-war style.But the satisfaction was there, a demure Willowes-like satisfaction in the family tree that had endured the gale with an unflinching green heart.Lovely sentence to describe the protagonist's family and why she needs to define herself as herself and not someone's sister or aunt or daughter.
The NYRB catalogue seems to be making its way into my collection because of such wonderful selections and such wonderful printed books.
And Laura, feeling rather as if she were a piece of property forgotten in the will, was ready to be disposed of as they should think best.”Laura's relations dispose of her by depositing her in her brother's comfortable London household, where she becomes Aunt Lolly, indispensable caretaker for her nieces and domestic companion to her sister-in-law.
It’s to escape all that – to have a life of one’s own, not an existence doled out to you by others...” Sylvia Townsend Warner's witty and lyrical prose is a vehicle for her subversive, satirical commentary on a world in which only by selling her soul to the devil can a woman become independent of the expectations of society and her family.
Originally read in Nov. 2000; rereading Sept.
Original review below.When I read Lolly Willowes, I was enchanted by the delicacy and humor of Sylvia Townsend Warner's prose, and I felt a kinship with the Lolly, a woman who refuses to recede into the background and lead a conventional life.
It's a story of a woman who slowly and joyfully realizes her potential.
Lolly's witchcraft is perhaps no more than a fanciful allegory, but it works beautifully.Reread this for a September 2017 Reading Genres book club meeting devoted to "Debut" books.
This was Townsend's first novel.
Written by debut author Sylvia Townsend Warner, the novel tells the story of an unmarried woman who refuses to live the life that her family and society expects her to live.
A bold and beguiling story about personal freedom, uneasy friendships, and witchcraft, Lolly Willowes was selected despite the fact that its author was completely unknown at the time.Warner went on to have a long and respected career.
When later asked about how it felt to have written Book of the Month’s very first selection, she said, “I was astonished, delighted and confident that any organization daring enough to pick an unknown author would be a valuable asset to contemporary literature.”Over 90 years later, Lolly Willowes is considered a classic.For more: https://www.bookofthemonth.com/lolly-...
The title was playful, but I didn't understand the purpose of the book. Nothing interesting happened. Rather, nothing happened. A spinster moves to a place because she liked a flower that was grown there, her nephew moves there and she all of a sudden hates him for no reason, she sees a man who is the devil, she wakes up a witch and nothing happens because of it. What? On a positive note, it was short.
She married at age 20 and had 4 children.
Her older children were married or already gone.
My grand-mother, like Lolly, was a witch and made a pact with the devil, for the god of her days would had kept her chained to a kitchen stove, to the church bazaar, to babysitting grand-children.
But as a witch she got to fly above it all.I can only imagine how this book must have seemed revolutionary in 1926 when it was published.
A brittle, earthy and magical tale about a woman who, as a spinster, is passed as a dependent from family member to family member.
She, as the maiden aunt, is endlessly useful.
Finally, Laura (or Lolly Willowes), being increasingly drawn to solitude, her talent for herbs, and the rhythms of nature, leaves her family for a small village.
It is there that she sells her soul to Satan, the charming, mischievous shepherd of damned souls.
Lolly's witchiness is an obvious metaphor for the early 20th century single woman's desire for independence and the book scoops Virginia Woolf's Room of One's Own. Delightful.
I'd call this one - "The Story That Got Away". I liked it a lot, liked the character, the premise, the writing - everything, and then it just faded away. I loved the whole older-woman-takes-control-of-her-life-and-defies-all-conventions theme, and Warner had just placed Aunt Lolly in a sweet spot where she could've gotten into all kinds of trouble, when she backed off and let it slip away. It's too bad, the writing was very good, and Laura was an intriguing character.
I want to tattoo every sentence in my brain
לולי ווילוז היא לורה, שהוריה נפטרו ולכן היא עברה לגור עם אחיה ואישתו.
היא מתחמקת מנישואים ועוזרת לגדל את הילדים וכך לאחר מלחמת העולם ה 1, בגיל 47 היא מוצאת את עצמה רווקה מזדקנת ונשלטת ע"י נורמות חברתיות שרואות באישה כלי שרת לגבר.לא די בכך, אחיה השקיע את הכספים שלה בחברה מפסידה, בהשקעות בלתי חכמות, ועתה לורה רוצה לצאת לחופשי אלא שההון שלה הצטמק.
בכל זאת היא עושה מעשה ועוברת לכפר שם היא בחלק האחרון של הספר הופכת למכשפה שכרתה ברית עם השטן בעד החופש שלה.גם כך מדובר בספר די מרגיז על בזבוז חיים שלמים בצל הטיפול בילדים של האח אבל החלק האחרון היה פשוט אעעע.
Laura Willowes was a much loved daughter, she grew up happily in the country, and she became the kind of countrywoman whose life moved with the rhythms of nature in the way that lives had for generations.
There was a wonderful mixture of delicate observation, wry knowingness and love for the story being told; all of that made it feel very special.Laura accepted her family’s decision, accepted it as the natural way of things, and settled into a new life.
Caroline did not know what the children would do without their Aunt Lolly.”As her nieces and nephews grew up Laura began to feel the gap in her life, and the country and its traditions began to call her back.
Laura (Lolly) Willowes rejects men and societal conventions in order to move to the country and become a witch. This narrative feels central to my understanding of myself, and Townsend Warner writes it in vivid, frank prose. Laura is an irrepressible character, who gives herself to Satan and happily tells him off when his actions displease her. Though she's an inspiration to me, she's also completely believable: she's shy, moody, and afraid of small talk. I think of her as my guardian witch, with whom I feel completely at home.
It’s what Townsend Warner has done with this novel about a single woman, who like many English women in the 20’s is doomed to live under the protection of her brother because she has chosen not to marry.
The novel is really about how important it is for women to have lives of their own, but Townsend Warner developed her theme by taking us into a world where it seems perfectly logical for the protagonist to meet the devil while out strolling through the woods.
Sylvia Townsend Warner’s Summer Will Show was one of my favourite books of 2015, so I searched the library catalogue for her other work and found ‘Lolly Willowes’.
If she were to start forgiving she must needs forgive Society, the Law, the Church, the History of Europe, the Old Testament, great-great-aunt Salome and her prayer book, the Bank of England, Prostitution, the Architect of Apsley Terrace, and half a dozen other useful props of civilisation.Sylvia Townsend Warner also writes delightfully witty descriptions:Mr Gurdon’s beard was red and curly (Laura knew him by sight also).
It’s to escape all that - to have a life of one’s own, not an existence doled out to by others.The above is a quote I came across on tumblr a few days ago, it was from a book I never heard of: Lolly Willowes.
So, if anyone has any recommendations, shoot them my way.Oh, and I didn't even mention the best part: Laura discovers she is a witch, and she isn't even alarmed by it.Probably my favorite part is when it hits Laura just how miserable and oppressed she was for the past 20 years.The weight of all her unhappy years seemed for a moment to weigh her bosom down to the earth; she trembled, understanding for the first time how miserable she had been; and in another moment she was released.
I probably wouldn't go that far, but it does detail how maiden Aunts can slowly be made into slaves by their families under the guise of being 'useful' to society.
This is the story of Aunt Lolly returning to Laura, and what is refreshing is that there isn't any pity about her situation, only finally rebellion against the constraints society and her family have put upon her.
We get a lot of back story, and it never really gets going in the ‘present’, adding to a fairytale quality where Aunt Lolly looks for her own personal glass slipper.
"...they do not mind if you are a little odd in your ways, frown if you are late for meals, fret if you are out all night, pry and commiserate when at length you return. Lovely to be with people who prefer their thoughts to yours, lovely to live at your own sweet will, lovely to sleep out at night!"I found it hard to believe that this book had been written in 1926, it seemed so modern. Hurrah for women's rights! Oh, and I also want to move to a tiny cottage in the woods in England.
Written in the '20s, this touching, odd magical tale of a spinster aunt, in a time when single women couldn't live independently but were basically used as unpaid servants in their siblings' homes, is a book I've savored.
4.5 StarsLolly Willowes – the debut novel of the English writer Sylvia Townsend Warner – was an instant success on its publication in 1926.
Now regarded as something of an early feminist classic, it tells the story of Laura (Lolly) Willowes, an unmarried woman of semi-independent means who struggles to break free from her conservative family to carve out a life of her own in the lush and seductive countryside of Bucks.
While the story starts out in fairly conventional territory, about halfway through it morphs into something more magical, subverting the reader’s expectations with elements of fantasy and wonder.
