https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16113791-the-coincidence-of-callie-kayden
It aggravates me even more to know that they're out there somewhere, living on in another book and probably annoying someone else with their silly, recycled nonsense.Predictably, both Callie and Kayden have issues.
But the book, predictably, handles both issues unsuccessfully and simplifies them into a story about romance and (as Rose pointed out) awkward "healing" sex.
The thing that turned it from a silly, predictable issue-book into one I really hated?
I'm sorry but I don't like books where I can predict every plot turn, every scene, every sentence...
In some ways, I wish I had waited to read both of them back-to-back because, right now, my heart is just aching not knowing what happens!This book touches of domestic, physical and sexual abuse and its long term impact on the everyday life of its survivors.
This book didn’t ever give me that heart-racing feeling (except at the end when I was freaking out, but that’s different), and yet I still felt quite connected to the characters and really enjoyed the book.I’m not going to give any spoilers here at all regarding the cliffhanger but, without any details, I’ll say that I wondered a bit about the circumstances around the ending scene for a while after I read it.
"In the existence of our lives, there is a single coincidence that brings us together and for a moment, our hearts beat as one."    "It's amazing how the things you remember forever are the things you'd rather forget and the things you desperately want to grasp onto seem to slip away like sand in the wind."  After reading The Secret of Ella and Micha I was already a fan of the author Jessica Sorensen but now I'm a even bigger fan!! This story was BEAUTIFUL, BREATHTAKING, HEARTBREAKING and just
Being saved from all the dark memories that are in our past and finally being able to move on with life.Callie and Kayden both have a troubled past.
That one thing, that coincidental moment in time ended up being what saved Kayden's life and for that, he will always be thankful to her.
"Callie Lawrence saved my fucking life that night, more than she propably realized."
I fell in love with the story and with Callie and Kayden and their unconditional love for each other.Now, as most of you probably already know, the book does end with a bit of an unpleasant cliffhanger (to say the least) which makes me kind of desperate to find out what will happen next...
It’s truly touched my heart in a way that not a lot of books have.
The emotions poured through the characters in away that left me speechless.
It can happen heroically, or by a simple coincidence , but there are those who don’t get luck on a shiny platter, who end up in the wrong place at the wrong time, who don’t get saved.” ~~ Callie“In the existence of our lives, there is a single coincidence that brings us together and for a moment, our hearts beat as one.” ~~ Callie"That's you, Callie, you're the only person that's ever made me feel happy about anything.
THIS IS NOT MY REVIEW.
THIS IS ME NEEDING TO LET OUT A MAJOR FREAK OUT OVER THIS BOOK.
SEE YOURSELVES WARNED.To read a proper review (without capslock abuse), go to my blog, Drugs Called BooksOMG, WHAT WAS THAT ENDING?!
I CAN'T FUCKING BREATHE!
CRAP, I DID NOT THINK THAT WAS GOING TO END LIKE THAT.
I NEED THE SEQUEL.
THANK GOD THERE IS A SEQUEL OR I MIGHT'VE WENT AND KILLED MYSELF.
(YEAH, I'M BEING DRAMATIC.
AFTER YOU READ THE BOOK, LET'S SEE YOU LESS DRAMATIC.
I'M FREAKING OUT.
I'M FREAKING OUT.
I'M HAVING A PANIC ATTACK.BREATH.I CAN'T.
I CAN'T BREATH.
I was very surprised, because it was completely different book, from what she usually writes.When I started reading The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden, I started seeing Sorensen in a whole different light.
Best book of 2013 so far.Characters:- Callie, I fell in love with her from the first page.
Even though I loved him, I was not sure if I wanted to see him with Callie.
I liked the fact that he knew how f***ed up he was and that he wasn't good enough for her, but that goddamn pull, that he felt towards her...- Callie and Kayden together.
Yet , he isnt drown only by her appearance .Kayden wants to thank her for what she did and that's how they start getting to know better each other.Callie is trying hard to get away from her never ending nightmare that is haunting her years now .She is doing her best to make a new start and take chances.
One of the most evil cliffhangers ever .I didn’t see that coming and it had an awful effect on my feelings.Why end a book in such a brutal way?
Callie, you’re the only person that’s ever made me feel happy about anything.
I love these angsty, sexy hot stories and I really want this book-like now!
So when it came out early, I got my gritty, greedy hands on this gem but waited until I finished my previous book to read this one.GR Synopsis:There are those who don’t get luck handed to them on a shiny platter, who end up in the wrong place at the wrong time, who don’t get saved.Luck was not on Callie’s side the day of her twelfth birthday when everything was stolen from her.
The more he tries to be part of her life, the more he realizes Callie might need to be saved.I LOVED THIS BOOK!!!
I loved this book....right to the end.
It's the 2nd book I've read recently that has done that and I swear to God, if I come across another one, I'm going postal!
THAT is where you're stopping the book?
Ranting aside, The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden is truly an incredible read.
Hell yes....BUT you may want to wait until the 2nd book comes out before you start it.
Because trust me, when you read this, the idea of waiting ANY length of time to find out the fate of Callie & Kayden will send you on a one-way trip to Crazyville.
Life is full of luck, like getting dealt a good hand, or simply by being in the right place at the right time. Some people get luck handed to them, a second chance, a save. It can happen heroically, or by a simple  COINCIDENCE , but there are those who don’t get luck on a shiny platter, who end up in the wrong place at the wrong time, who don’t get  SAVED.   Page Turner. Emotional. Awe-Inspiring. Riveting. BEAUTIFUL... The story is about  Callie , deemed class weirdo in their school as she cho
It can happen heroically, or by a simple  COINCIDENCE , but there are those who don’t get luck on a shiny platter, who end up in the wrong place at the wrong time, who don’t get  SAVED.
The one that makes me feel things…”  I LOVE CALLIE AND KAYDEN TOGETHER.
When she thought Kayden's going to run away from her, but it only made their relationship stronger than ever :)  (hide spoiler)] and of course, the RAIN kiss.This is the first book I've read from Jessica Sorensen, and after reading this, I'm already a FAN!
This book literally  SAVED ME.
It's live on Amazon and B&N!
It all started one night when"Callie Lawrence saved my fucking life...""...she changed something in me - made me wanna live...""...all I could think about was being with her..."[image error]"I've never felt this way about anyone before and it's exhilarating and fucking terrifying...""...my heart started to beat like it was finally alive..."In the end "I stare at the wall, picturing Callie's smile, the sound of her laugh, the softness of her skin...""...reaching to my side I pick up a knife..."Dum, dum, dum...
My Callie and Kayden: "Life is full of luck, like getting dealt a good hand, or simply by being in the right place at the right time. Some people get luck handed to them, a second chance, a save. It can happen heroically, or by a simple coincidence, but there are those who don’t get luck on a shiny platter, who end up in the wrong place at the wrong time, who don’t get saved."  With cut hair and "homeless" clothes, Callie has been school weirdo since 6th grade. But the truth is that she prefers
"Life is full of luck, like getting dealt a good hand, or simply by being in the right place at the right time.
But he is detached from any feelings to help him survive the life with the secret of his own...This book is about two emotionally broken individuals who are so damaged that they prefer physical pain over emotional one.
This book is about physical abuse, about lost willpower to live your life and about coincidence that changes lives and makes people feel truly alive again.The thing that I liked the most about this book is the fact that it made me think.
"It's so good!"..."You have to read it!"..."It's like a thick word penis that will satisfy your every need." Okay, so maybe I made that last one up, but I was force fed hype for weeks.
I experienced every emotion at the same time as falling in love with the both Kayden and Callie.
I sat down to read this book and couldn't stop.
Huge cliffhanger, but I'm not going to sit here and tell you to wait on the sequel before reading this book.
Part of everything I loved about this book.
After reading this, I honestly feel like I need to send the author more money.
2.5 I'm really surprised this isn't utter crap.And yes, that sounds like a mean thing to say but seriously, from someone who reads a lot NA, this was surprisingly bearable. That last 30% or so really had me wanting to read the sequel....I won't though. In my mind a romance that needs to be divided into three books to have an actual HEA is not really my cuppa. I prefer standalones, or if they insist on having a series, that every book be about a different couple.But, back to the book. I think I'l
I'm really surprised this isn't utter crap.And yes, that sounds like a mean thing to say but seriously, from someone who reads a lot NA, this was surprisingly bearable.
I think I'll blame my feelings toward this book on having read so many NA before.
It feels like I've read this before, like every character is just the same as in every other book.
This book tries to handle serious issues, like, rape, physical abuse, self harm, and anorexia.
Expect CallieCallie who can't utter the word sex or orgasm.Callie who only likes to wear hoodies and baggy clothes.
Callie who prefers to read and write than go party.
I’m a Callie & Kayden Cheerleader!!!I put my C & K uniform on from the first page of this well told story.
I tied my sneakers when they connected for the first time.I picked up my pom poms when they meet again in college.I started the chant “Go Callie Go” when she was brave enough to cross experiences off of her list with the support of the world’s greatest best friend Seth.I started shaking my pom poms when the sparks of this amazing love connection ignited.I belted another cheer for the couple with each step they took from their fears.My pom poms were shaking frantically as they began to fall in love.
5 Beautiful StarsI am so embarrassed to admit I am just now reading this series, because I absolutely loved this book!Callie and Kayden grew up together, their families even spent time together, but they were never friends or talked.
Finally, away from everything Callie and Kayden are able to talk and begin a friendship, but can two broken people ever make a perfect whole?Ms. Sorensen out did herself with this one.
I loved the list Callie and Seth made, everything from kissing in the rain, to not giving a shit what people think - I think we could all do well to follow their list.
OH MY GOD!!!! I NEED THE SECOND BOOK LIKE FUCKING NOWWWWWW.I thought it was a standalone because it had no (Callie and Kayden, 1#) and stuff at the end :( and now I'm hanging like the stupid cliffhanger.. agrhLoved the book, the character, the story and the plot.Callie was stupid, but yet strong in so many waysand Kayden, Boy.. you are more stupid..Can't wait to read what happens next..__My addictive liking for dark/twisted/disturbed past/deep books is freaky weird!Lets see how this book goes! The summary seems amazing and the cover is HOT!
(And the editing in this wasn't very good to boot, but that's another issue on top of the major story ones.) Callie and Kayden both have tragic pasts in the form of abuse at the hands of people in their inner circles.
The ending wasn't even really an ending, more like the point which the book stopped and then you have to read the next part to know what happened.Suffice to say, I can't really continue with this series because the characters felt so formulaic, the emotional resonance so contrived that it didn't do anything for me.Overall score: 0.5/5 stars
The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden may sound like your typical New Adult but somehow this was done so much better than most.
However, Callie makes an impression on Kayden when she saves his life.
The effects from the traumas that both Callie and Kayden went through felt very authentic.
Their emotions, pain, and new tentative hope come through clearly thanks to the dual POVs. When they strike up a friendship in college, knowledge of Kayden’s past pain allows Callie to share her own, and their shared burden makes it easier to bear, cope, and heal.
"In the existence of our lives, there is a single coincidence that brings us together for a moment, our hearts beat as one." Can I give this book more than 5 stars??? I absolutely loved it! It was emotional, heartbreaking, angsty, beautiful and at times-hot! I mean just look at the cover! The day I changed is like a scar. It's there, a memory in my mind, something I always remember and can never erase. Ever since Callie Lawrence's 12th birthday, she has been different. She strives to be invisib
They grow close that summer, and Callie starts to transform.
Happy to start college in the fall and get away from his abusive father, Kayden, along with his best friend Luke, start school.
The four of them (Callie,Kayden,Seth, and Luke) start to hang out a lot while Callie is still working on the list.
Kayden and Callie become especially close- which is difficult for both of them.
Kayden is afraid of his feelings for Callie.
<3 Both Callie and Kayden are damaged and broken, but together they were beautiful.
Also loved Seth and Luke- they were wonderful!This book hooked me from the very start!
Poor writing & implausible story made this a non-finisher for me In an attempt to try out another New Adult title, I downloaded The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden. It is currently sitting in the #4 spot on the NYT Best Sellers list for e-books, and it seemed like a deal at only 99 cents. I even picked up the author's second similar title (The Secret of Ella and Micha) on a whim at the same time. Though I should have been more wary due to the low price and the author's self-pubbed status,
I even picked up the author's second similar title (The Secret of Ella and Micha) on a whim at the same time.
The two chapters that I read were littered with typos, incorrect pronoun usage, and simply pedestrian and awkward writing.
As per usual with YA or NA titles, the characters have trials or past abuses to overcome, but this story laid them out entirely too obviously within the first three pages with clunky statements about "hiding the scars on the inside" and the young woman's obvious fear of men.
I simply had to stop reading due to the absolute implausibility of the story and the poor writing.
This was a YA/NA contemporary romance which also dealt with the hard-hitting topics of rape and child abuse.I thought Callie did a pretty good job of handling what had happened in her past, and trying to get on with her future, even if it involved a little bit of running away.
We had storyline which dealt with the topics of rape, child abuse, and self-harm, and this pair really did not have an easy life.There was romance between Callie and Kayden, and a couple of sexy scenes which were worth reading.The ending to this was a big cliff-hanger, so I’m going to have to read the next book to find out what happens.6 out of 10
It seems that I've been comparing every book with 'broken main characters' lately to PUSHING THE LIMITS, which was a perfect example for novels of that topic, even though I didn't love it.The plot is terribly cliché.
He wanted to protect Callie all the time, and I guess he has to because she certainly isn't a strong main character.
I didn't find him interesting or swoon-worthy at all, though I did feel terrible for him.I really liked Seth, even if he was a stereotypical gay guy.
“… the thing I regret - will always regret - is going into my room on my twelfth birthday.”   Nothing will prepare you for what this book is about or the authenticity with which it tackles some very important but grim life issues. This is a book about second chances at what life should have been in the first place, about the freeing power of the human connection, and about love between wounded souls.Callie and Kayden lived in the same small town all their lives, went to the same school, knew
This is a book about second chances at what life should have been in the first place, about the freeing power of the human connection, and about love between wounded souls.Callie and Kayden lived in the same small town all their lives, went to the same school, knew the same people, but they have never really known each other.
Callie's abuse, on the other hand, might have been a one-off occurrence in her life, but its effects on her wounded mind have followed her ever since, shaping her interaction with others, her appearance, self-esteem, but most of all, her trust in people, including those closest to her.
"Love requires a lot of time, a lot of trust, and a lot of other things I don’t understand." Have you seen this grunge looking cover with the girl who has watery mascara running down her face?Yeah,It screams I'm your average new adult read.But Callie never wore any makeup or even thought about it. So what's the prospect of using a misleading cover,NA needs better illustration with some metaphorical insight regarding the storyline IMO. At least it's still better than a lot of beheaded six pack t
Have you seen this grunge looking cover with the girl who has watery mascara running down her face?Yeah,It screams I'm your average new adult read.But Callie never wore any makeup or even thought about it.
At least it's still better than a lot of beheaded six pack things.A "it's okay not to be okay" kind of story where the protagonists names are Callie and Kayden.ha-ha.
I liked a lot of scenes but the one at the cliff was probably the smexiest.Is there a thing possible as Justified slut shaming?You know, when both the girls are bad mouthing each other.Callie: He has a girlfriend—a super slutty girlfriend who he can touch.”Daisy: Anorexic Satan Worshipper(says about our Callie)..
ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME?!?!? THAT IS HOW YOU END IT? IS THIS A JOKE? I ALMOST FLUNG MY PHONE ACROSS THE ROOM! I.. I.. I DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW TO COMPREHEND WHAT JUST HAPPENED! WHO DOES THAT TO THEIR READERS? HOW CAN YOU LEAVE ME HANGING LIKE THAT? MY FIRST THOUGHT WAS THAT I SKIPPED SOME PAGES, BUT NOPE! IT JUST ENDS LIKE I WAS DROPPED OFF AN EDGE OF A CLIFF. I NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW! *SIGH*  The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden  ended up being one of those stories that left me completely undon
ended up being one of those stories that left me completely undone.
The story of Callie and Kayden is raw and intense.
The reason it did is because it left me with the biggest cliff-hanger I have ever been left hanging onto while ending a book.
The emotions after swiping the last page were complete disbelief.
I couldn’t read through those last pages fast enough.
It gutted me and left me open feeling everything from aw to anger that the author could just leave me that last page and offer me no kind of closure.
OKAY I NEED THE NEXT BOOK RIGHT NOW I AIN'T EVEN KIDDING
Callie saved me that night from a fight that would have probably left me dead, but she also saved me from myself. Before her, I was dying inside; there was nothing in my heart, but an empty hole.  This is without a doubt, one of the best New Adult - Contemporary books I've had so far. I love everything in The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden! It's one of those books that have everything you want in a contemporary read that will leave you feeling awed. It's just *sigh* perfect!If you want to re
I love everything in The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden!
It's just *sigh* perfect!If you want to read something that has to do with dark past and secrets with a bit of heavy drama and a sizzling romance, then this book is for you.
Every freaking kissing and make-out details of Callie and Kayden is emotional and moving you will basically find yourself hanging on to every word the author writes.After reading the book, I had a very huge desire to find the second installment and grab another bite 'coz ugh, it feels not enough.
:)As a whole, The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden is totally a must-read.
I love to torture myself with a good YA/NA broken boy/girl book and this one did not disappoint.
Loved that Callie found a friend (Seth) to help her on the road to healing; the list was an awesome tool for them.
This list opened up many opportunities for Callie to begin to let Kayden in and it was really sweet and sad how they came together and began to love.
#17 Let Something Amazing Happen, Without Question or Hesitation#3 Be Stupidly, Drunk Happy#9 Dance in the Rain #13 Live in the Moment #17 Be Yourself(Yeah, I noticed a few repeat list #’s.
