https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303434.Tennis_Shoes
5 Words: Family, tennis, pressure, money, talent.I am so glad that as I child I picked up Ballet Shoes and not this, because otherwise I honestly wouldn't have bothered with any of the author's other books. Which is a huge shame, as Ballet Shoes is one of my all time favourite books and I reread it often.It's still charming and sweet but I expected more.
For me, it came earlier this week with the sight of Tennis Shoes on a library trolley, and then, as I read it and the evenings started to twist around the end of Summer and things like Yorkshire puddings and joints of beef found their way into the fridge, I realised that it was most definitely Streatfeild season and it was good.
It was time for the rich books, the books of tumultous family and bright, hard-working children that don't jib and don't jibe but just do , yet never, somehow, irritate.I'd never read Tennis Shoes before.
Hmm, an interesting one, a Streatfeild about SPORTS, gasp! The pacing didn't quite work and I do think the family treated Nicky rather unfairly at times.But enjoyable enough overall.
The writing is, frankly, pretty awful, but Nicky is a gift:In spite of her triumph, Nicky got into bed feeling cross. There was absolutely nobody to jump about and be pleased with. "Oh well," she thought, tucking in her back, "if nobody else is pleased, I am." She settled down for the night. "Good night, Nicky, dear. Many congratulations."There are a few other great human moments, too, mostly with Susan and Nicky. This is a slight but very entertaining book.
Not only do the lucky kids in this book have red hair, they also possess a natural talent for tennis. Gosh, but I was an envious child!
Actual rating: 2.5Ballet Shoes by Noel Streatfield was actually one of the first books to get me into reading, (and I actually read it again this year) and I’m so grateful that I picked that one when I was 9, and not Tennis Shoes.
I just found it incredibly boring, and it may just be that I find tennis much less interesting that theatre or pretty much anything else, but it just took me so long to get through because if just felt like I was reading the same page again.
All the interesting events seem to take place in under two pages and everything else is either tennis matches or spoilt children.
I hate this entire family except for Nicky, and I hope they die.
A loved favorite from childhood, as most books by Streatfeild have been. It's a shame that hey books, especially those in the Shoes series are out of print or only available as European imports. The story itself is for ages 9-11, and would not likely be engaging to older children, or those who dislike sports and tennis. The reader will learn more about growing up in a large English family in the early 20th century, before World War II than about tennis.
Well researched and with some charming characters but just a bit dry if you don't like tennis.
I liked this book not a lot but I was interested by the book. This was not one of Noel Streatfeilds best books but I liked it.
My least favorite 'Shoe' book despite being about tennis. I think the children in this one aren't particularly likable!
It's like golf; do it if you want to do it, but the only thing less exciting for me on TV is darts or billiards.
But you can't go by me; in my youth I did a very little fencing, but if you have to run to get there, I'm not going.So I ended up skimming all the tennis-championship thing because I found loong descriptions of a sport I've never played boring.
Nicky is so whiny and self-centred I wanted to smack her repeatedly (as I am sure so did the rest of the family).
An excellent children's book which many adults too can learn from.
The introduction says this world does not exist anymore in which this story is set: children obey their p[parents, families egg each member on to do well, even make harsh sacrifices, a lorry driver can be trusted to drop a kid off at home, and winning for your country but winning with integrity means much.
So much aspiration and inspiration in this story, in this style of writing, Noel Streafeild is a joy to read and this is without doubt one I shall be reading to my own children.
Tennis shoes is one of four books in the shoes series by Noel Stratfield. They can be read in any order as they are all about different children perusing their dreams. It was a very interesting book as you think it is going to go one way but the story takes a different turn. I would recommend this book for children aged 9-13.
Not my favorite Shoe book, but then I'm not a tennis player nor particular fan. Follows the usual pattern of these books, with one daughter the ''less lovely'' and (apparently) liked of the family.
I loved "Ballet Shoes" and "Dancing Shoes" as a child, but found very little enjoyable about this book.
2.4
I really enjoyed this book, it was really sweet! I loved how there was a variety of characters and not just 1 person that was focused on.
Disappointed.
I have just moved away from Brixton Hill, the parallel road to Tulse Hill, the adjoining ward...heck, my telephone exchange was Tulse Hill.
But nothing in the book gives any sense of place.No sense of time, either.
I like books that evoke that period, but frankly, not a clue, not a description, just the odd hint eg a GP's patients pay for his services.Oh, and they're so terribly terribly poor that they have only two servants and only the boys go away to boarding school.
The girls have to endure the local fee-paying day school.
But in this book, Susan, Jim, Nicky, and David did have parents, and still, Pinny and Annie were the primary adults who supported and cared for them.
Young David - perhaps my favorite character - liked to use big words, and words that he spoke were frequently purposely misspelled to reflect his childlike pronunciation.
I always like it when books introduce readers to new ideas, and I can imagine that young readers today - who live in a world in which certain diseases are now rare - might be encountering "measles" and "mumps" for the first time.
Another masterpiece from Streatfeild. The description of the life of a child who chooses to become a professional athlete is very different from most kid's books. I remember enjoying this immensely and rereading it more than once.
Maybe also it's me coming to this fresh as an adult and not reading it with childhood nostalgia too, but I just kept noticing very strongly how much the children were pushed into doing tennis.
Also, her punishment for selling the umbrellas to the tin peddler - no presents for her next TWO birthdays AND next two Christmases - I'm sorry but that's just obscene!
but to stretch out a punishment for so long just seems too unfair :( I also felt the family were a little unfair when they walked out on her having her tantrum on the court and just went home, leaving this 11-year-old to get home by herself.
I liked this one ^_^ In fact, I preferred it to Ballet Shoes...
So 4 stars they shall both be.This really was a charming book, and I do like how Noel Streatfield writes.
Most of the time she knows exactly what it feels like to be child...
Altogether, there was a thread of overall strangeness, but I'm finding that's just how Noel writes, and it's nice and a bit of a change :) {P.S I simply adore this edition of the books, they're so pretty!
(-sad face-) but 'this feeling changed' and it became one of her favourite books :)}
So, I'm a bit put out.But that's about right for this book.
It is probably NS's funniest - it is hugely entertaining, and don't worry if you don't care for tennis (it bores me rigid) because you don't actually learn a great deal about it, any more than you will be able to pirouette after reading Ballet Shoes.
NS is absolutely brilliant at this (and if you've read A Vicarage Family you'll know why).2.
I want to know more about this family, more about what happened to Nicky and her siblings.
I've never had any interest in any sport involving a ball, net, puck, bat, racquet, etc., so it's to Streatfeild's great credit that I enjoy this book as much as the other Shoes books.
Her story devices and characters are similar to the other books, but that's a comforting quality to me.
I happily nominate Nicky Heath as the cheekiest of all the Streatfeild characters.
As a kid, I most enjoyed the concentration exercises that Nicky's siblings dream up for her.
Now I have a greater appreciation for Annie - the first one to spot and encourage Nicky's talent.
A likeable story for children, about a family of redheads who learn to play tennis.
Set in the 1930s, when it was first written, it features the Heath family: the twins Susan and Jim, their sister Nicky and their younger brother David.
Good characterisation, family values (if a little old-fashioned), and well-written.
No dancers in this book, and though David has a particularly nice voice, it's not the focus of the story.
While some of the people remind me strongly of other Streatfeild characters, it doesn't much matter as the storylines and interactions are different.Enjoyed on re-reading twelve years after I first read it.
Not my favorite Streatfeild, although it's charming and full of strong old fashioned morals which I agree with, such as work hard and you'll get ahead, and be frugal.
I also like how the boys and girls are treated exactly the same when it comes to athletic competition, which is refreshing today, let alone in 1937.
I sympathized with Susan, the eldest, who comes off as a bit of a sop, but has her heart in the right place, and I thought Nicky was a little madam and a pain in the ass.
I enjoyed reading this, although one of the main characters, Nicky, was rather annoying.
David was my favorite--"tollaly dor'ble [sic:]." Two themes are dominant in this book: hard work is important, even if you have a natural talent; England was in a moral slump and needed youth and hard work to get out of it.
Nicky had the talent, but was lazy.
Susan had the willingness to work, but lacked that spark of a champion.
Tennis is the means by which Ms. Streatfield frames her themes, like acting, ballet and theater in her other books.
Once they begin learning tennis, all the Heath children appear to be talented.
Of course Susan and Jim the most, because they are the eldest.
Nicky is good too, but she doesn't like to practice.
But as time goes by it becomes apparent that Nicky is the one destined to be the star.
Jim doesn't mind, he'd actually rather compete in swimming; Susan never really liked the attention she got at tournaments; and young David would rather sing.
So they all combine their efforts to help Nicky overcome her laziness and develop her innate talent.
Very interesting view of the world of competitive tennis.
Bring this back into print. Please! The 'Shoe' pantheon needs a little athleticism to toughen it up. The book wasn't heavy on the tennis, but the author did understand the game. And while Nicky can come across as annoying, I rather liked her. She's practical and blunt, and the way her family treated her at times, I don't blame her for looking out for number one.
