https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1856273.Head_and_Shoulders
Having recently completed my formal education and waiting to be 25 in a couple of months this story came as a not so pleasant spooky and terrifying surprise.
Here I am waiting for the start of my next phase of life and bang!
came Fitzgerald with the perfect example of irony in life.
So much that having read the book last month I was thinking about this story tossing and turning in bed last night.
The events in the last few days of my life brought me thinking and you fucking Fitzgerald were ready to pounce on the chance of my vulnerability.
This may just be my favorite of Fitzgerald's (can I call him Scott??) short stories. No surprise, as I am a sucker for a good love story. These two were adorable. They tackled anything that came their way. It was really nice (and a great change from the last couple stories). I loved it and I'm sure I'll read it again and again!!(There's only slight moments through these where I think there's slang and such that I don't get, but you know just gotta brush it off because Scott [:D] is just that good).
This is another short story that I enjoyed besides Oscar Wilde's short stories.I found it funny and realistic(?) since it talks about efforts you will do for your family. The efforts might be different from your expectations or from your dreams.. but yeah.. that's actually what sometimes happen in reality. I like Horace's character. He is so introvert, genius and serious, but later he finds another "part" of himself.I also enjoyed the description that Fitzgerald puts to explain his irritation and his nerdiness. An amazing piece from Fitzgerald.
The sentiment of failure clouds the moment the dialogue is delivered.Would the prodigy question his beautiful life built out of scrap with the devotion of the couple?
:PCan he let the play of luck trick him into questioning his entire life's choices??Will the unintentional development in their life destroy the basis of the intentional spirit of their relationship?Would he be able to move on with his life with the same passion and still love his wife and to be child?Would he gather that his dream lies unfulfilled and probably that is what this call is from!
You may read online at The Library of America • Story of the Week.Opening lines:n 1915 Horace Tarbox was thirteen years old. In that year he took the examinations for entrance to Princeton University and received the Grade A—excellent—in Cæsar, Cicero, Vergil, Xenophon, Homer, Algebra, Plane Geometry, Solid Geometry, and Chemistry.
'About raps. Don’t answer them! Let them alone – have a padded door.'
Something about this story clicked with me, and I adored it from the first word to the last.
I don't know if it's because I relate with Tarbox, or if I loved Marcia, or if it's both of those things or neither, but when I finished the story I felt simultaneously conflicted and satisfied.
There's a line in the story that reads: "But when you opened your door at the rap of life you let in many things".
This short story is life, and when you open it to read you let many questions and thoughts in, and just like life, some of them you have to be okay with mulling over longer than others.
This is different from some of Fitzgerald's other works which is refreshing. It centers around a intellectual prodigy who gives up pursuing his education when he falls in love with an actress. It deals with self-identity and how the separation between one's personal and public persona can misguide society. Since the public regularly makes assumptions and snap-judgements in order to shape a reputation of someone, it shows how society may judge someone to be different than who they actually are. Humans are much more complex than society would like to believe.
Were Fitzgerald alive today, I would have him brought before a literary tribunal for crimes against humanity for not having this be a 1,000 page novel as opposed to the short story it remains today. Highly recommended!
I loved the story..
The story of a child prodigy who falls in love with an opera actress and ends up becoming a gymnast because of the necessities of life..
The reversal of roles and she ending up being called 'a prodigy' by the person he respects the most..
What Fitzgerald wrote is what happens in life..
He says,"if I stay here,I may get a life.
But I will regret it till the end of my life." Not sure if it's exactly the same words but something along these lines..
It was like reading my story even though I've yet to write the climax..
Title: Head and ShouldersSeries: - Author: F.
Scott FitzgeraldGenre: Classics Rating: 3.5 starsI dove into this with no expectations, especially after having previously read a couple of Fitzgerald's works and not been a fan.
If you can get through the banter a the very beginning, you'll enjoy the rest of the read.
Which is only short, so why not?About a child prodigy who meets an actress and falls in love.
With the birth of their child brings financial troubles, and also the reversal of roles: head and shoulders.
It's a neat little read, that indicates that we change over time.
I really enjoyed this story.
It's the tale of a prodigy who is going to get his Masters in Philosophy who meets a young woman who is a flapper and entertainer at a local show.
It also shows how the most unlikely set of people can get along well together and how the roles of the characters can easily be reversed with one small plot twist.
This is my first Fitzgerald short story and I really liked it.
I usually don't read short stories but this one really got my attention from start to finish.
Looking forward to reading more of Mr. Fitzgerald's short story work.
"Head and Shoulders" - a nice story about love's naivety turned strong-willed resolving in unintentional and depressing circumstances. Horace might be gratified in becoming what he envied BEFORE meeting Marcia, but he rather envies how Marcia stumbles upon her identity, "stolen" from him, when their life together is established. A tale of opposites not only attracting, but transferring and transforming.
I've always been a fan of Fitzgerald, but there's nothing I love more than his short stories. They're enticing and riveting. Head and Shoulders was a quick read I made in a Barnes & Noble. I love the fact that the love between Marcie and Horace is pure, innocent and sporadic. Horace was a prodigy. He could've had everything in the world but he chose to have Marcie instead.Beautifully written and beautifully done.
This was a charming story, I thought, the first story written by Fitzgerald that I actually liked. Hoace is a genius whose life drastically changes when he meets Marcia, a theatre actress and singer. Together they call themselves Head and Shoulders, but who exactly is the head who is the shoulder?
This story was very interesting. Although it tells a story about a couple falling in love. In the beginning she's not cray for him, like he is for her. Therefore it took time to find the love for him.
What you call fun wouldn't be fun to me/ a 'why' child-wanting to see the wheels go round-- life takes a hold of people- forces them into flying rings// poor gauzy souls trying to express ourselves in something tangible--
What fun.
This story was absolutely adorable. I completely recommend it.
Read this one a number of years ago, but didn't recognize it until I was almost at the end.
Good story
Brilliant! Loved the role-reversal halfway through the story.
...
Amazing. I officially love and respect F. Scott Fitzgerald
