https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1005709.The_Man_Who_Killed_the_Deer
Stick with this one...the pace is not unlike the pace out on the Pueblo where the story unfolds. It kinda has its own rhythm. Not a book to read on a Kindle while hurrying off to work or whatever. More of a long night on the couch when a storm has knocked out the power and you're reading by candlelight sort of book. A classic Taos tale but broad enough in theme to offer something for anyone able to slip into its gentle current and float quietly down its river.
A classic of the Southwest, but it gets off to a false start with a caricature of a thug forest ranger who practically lynches the Puebloan protagonist for poaching a deer in the 1930’s.
It’s an implausible shortcut that exaggerates the real life arrest of Frank Samora that inspired Waters to write what is otherwise a deeply sophisticated novel rich in poetry, philosophy, and ethnography.
Waters ruminations on the power of silence - as practiced by the Puebloans - are especially enriching.
Like the old men in this timeless novel, Waters and Samora both became sages, with Waters living until age ninety-two and Samora surpassing one-hundred.
Brilliant in every way. Thoughtful. My copy of this book is over 40 years old. So, definitely a book to keep and re-read.Compelling, enlightening. I read this years ago so this is a re-read with a wiser head. Beautifully crafted.Since I have now finished re-reading, I can recommend this book to anyone interested in the creative mind, the individual in society, native culture and the nature of the artist – these are Frank Waters's principal themes.
It gets off to a very slow start and you have to get used to the rhythm and pacing but it's a great book full of symbolism.
A terrific story, can I call it timeless!
I had some reservations to start with due to the almost endless detail the author laid down in The Book of Hopi.
This book, as I said, is a story not a description of a culture and it pulled me in from the beginning.
It has tension and great characters.
I gained an understanding about native American pueblo traditions, the why in addition to the what and how.
The writing is simple and clear and natural.
It was written almost 80 years ago but, as noted in the first sentence, it really is timeless.
Martiniano kills a deer which has a ripple effect on him and his community. Taken away to Indian school as a child he is struggling to find his place in the world. Slow-paced, beautifully written, with profound insights into the Navajo culture. Highly recommended.
Powerful.
Martiniano is a Puebloan Indian who as a child was sent off to school as part of a government program to help the Indians better integrate.
It has the effect of dislocation: he finds himself a stranger in both worlds, persecuted for his nonconformity.
There are life lessons imparted as we follow the proud Martiniano.
With time, he finds peace and location.
It occurs to me that in an effort to preserve their culture, like Martiniano, the Indians are dislocated, trying to live in a past that can never return.My favorite quotes:p153 ...like all men he could endure the blows of adversity but not the arrows which pricked his pride and vanity.
This book is what it says on the cover, "...a beautiful book." I am sure it will speak to many people in different ways.
My favorite part was the long descriptive paragraphs, crystallizing Martiniano's thought processes into recognizable and new insights, some describing nature and cycles with perfection.
It is not a pat ending, so if you don't like that you might not enjoy the ending of this book.
What I took from it was the writing about relationships, marriage, children, and family.
The character of the trader was very interesting as he is developed.
(who lives in Taos, believed to be the basis of this novel); only at Berea College Library locally...01.05.2017: first written in 1942 this is a finely written complex story of sin and redemption in the Indian (Amer.) Nation as well as the conflict between Indians and whites.
Believed to be based in Taos (though in this fiction book it is called Pueblo).
I would be interested in this author’s life story because his writing of Indian culture was so indepth.
1942 paperback from a friend (CG) who had it in her library; 311 pgs.; 4 out of 5 stars; finished 04 Jan., 2017/#2

I'm a little biased. This book is about my grandfather's tribe, Taos Pueblo, so I have a special fondness for this story. It's about a young Pueblo man who goes away to school and has conflicts returning to his people years later. As many young Indian people experience (past and present), this young man faces internal struggle between returning to his old ways while living in a modern world. I recommend reading this if you're especially interested in the history of forced assimilation (e.g. Boarding School Era).
Hard to say what I thought of this book; it was a monthly choice for one of my book groups. A fascinating trip through life in a New Mexico pueblo and the spirit of a people in a rapidly changing world. It is considered a bit of a classic in the Southwest and certainly keeps you thinking as you read. I'm left with the realization of how difficult it is to understand a culture when you are looking from the outside in.
I first read The Man Who Killed the Deer in college, and it has always stuck with me as a book to read again. Now that I have read it a second time, I'm not sure why it moved me so much before. The story is difficult to follow. There are portions which are quite lucid, then all of a sudden, something else is happening. I am glad I re-read this book, if only to satisfy that part of me that needed to. But I really couldn't say I would recommend it.
Excellent book about the Taos Pueblo at the time when my grandfather knew the pueblo and some of the people who lived there. Frank Waters illustrated the cultural disruption the native americans lived through. There is much respect and understanding about the spiritual life of the tribe. I loved reading this because my grandfather knew an Indian who had cut his hair, and the elders kept him in the kiva until his hair grew out long. Just a great book.
Martiniano goes away to school and comes back 'in between'...not really part of white society, as the boarding school attendance was intended to do, and yet not part of the Pueblo, being seen as a bit of an outsider given the boarding school experience. The book is about sin and redemption. Martiniano sins...he breaks the white man's rules...and also breaks tribal rules. He is seen as a troublemaker. Ultimately he finds redemption, finds his way back to the tribe and it's way of life.
Since I grew up near Taos N.M. and visited often, I was particularly glad to read this book. I loved the way Waters pays tribute to the Pueblo culture without romanticizing it. The book explains to me the reticence of a couple of Native college roommates who could be enigmatic when it came to discussions of home and family. Loved this book.
After traveling in the South West this Fall, I find this story of the clash between Pueblo values and "white" values very interesting. Although given another name, the Pueblo referenced has to be Taos. The good news is that one of the issues in the book - access to the sacred lake - was solved by President Nixon. The Taos Pueblo now owns their sacred lake.
A thought provoking, worthwhile book. Informed views of Native American and Anglo cultures and the differences in their beliefs, world views and mind sets. Impressive that Waters wrote the book over 70 years ago.
This tells of the passing of boys from childhood into manhood in an American Indian setting. This was recommended to me and my son by a psychologist. it was interesting that the author was accused of being a racist several years after his book became popular.
Frank Waters is considered the father of the Southwest novel. In this book he explores the experience of a man caught between two cultures, a man who has no identity in this suspended state, until finally he has to choose.
One of the best books I've read in awhile. It dives into the heart of Native American spirituality and philosophy. Talks of family relationship. Coming of age and understanding your place as an adult and as a parent. It is a beautiful book. There was so much I could relate to.
More great Puebloan perspectives. Seems like Taos, but i'm not sure, it's one of those northern Pueblos. It's fun to read about Pueblo life in the early century. I like the qoute about the pebble being like a star at the bottom of the pond. It's a sad story but empowering.
I did enjoy the story. I liked that the story came full circle. However, I felt that it was a little detached at times.
Provides unique insight into cultural anomie.
Good for the history of indians and such but very graphic and lots of inappropriate parts. I had to read it for a class so maybe that's why I didn't like it very much
Always a little dicey writing about Native Americans when you're not, but this is a classic all the same.
Straight garbage
Thinking of shaving the heels off of my cowboy boots...
A frustrating read for me (the way it's written) but still a book I learned from
