https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406790.Good_Dog_Carl
The story depicted in Good Dog, Carl however, did not create (and does not create) the same sense of nostalgia in me, as none of our Rottweilers would ever have let us swim in a fish tank, nor would they have known how to give us a bath and dry us with a hairdryer (and thankfully so).I would still definitely recommend this charming wordless (or rather, nearly wordless) picture book to anyone who likes dogs (both adults and children).
But if you are going to read Good Dog, Carl, you should really also take the time to read and enjoy some of the later Carl the Rottweiler instalments (as both the stories and the illustrations do much improve as series progresses).
This is Kaiser, my fur-nephew. He sleeps at the edge of my niece's play mat and runs to check on her when she cries.I will always enjoy adorable picture books about very good dogs. And my niece enjoys drooling on them.
I know this is just a funny almost-wordless book and our girls were terrific at making up their own story as we looked at the humorous scenes, but I just couldn't shake the feeling of dread as the baby makes a mess and gets into dangerous situations.
Funny, but in a warped way.Still, the dog was adorable and I loved the retro feel of the book.
We enjoyed reading this book together, even if I felt the need to discuss with our girls the utter wrongness of leaving a baby alone in a house with a dog.
The Cat and the Hat was the first book that was mine, not just a hand me down--a gift from Ms. Kimball, my kindergarten teacher at North School in DesPlaines, Illinois. This book, one of a series, is formally very similar, illustrating beautifully the antics of a rotweiler assigned by Mother to watch her cribbed infant. As in the Seuss masterpiece, the two of them make chaos of the home, then tidy up just in time for Mother's return. The art is beautifully realistic, the humor perverse enough to amuse the adult reader, the sentiment--for dogs mostly--is profound.
Okay, DO NOT go thinking that all dogs that look like Carl are safe, because Carl, the dog in this book, is a Rottweiler, albeit a very well trained one.
And especially not in the care of some random Rottweiler.
Don't even go near a Rottweiler you don't know, let alone put your child in the care of one.
Okay.As a fantasy, this is a charmer, with lovely pictures showing Carl and the baby enjoying a day at home, the baby riding Carl like a horse to get around the house, having a Carl prepared lunch, enjoying a swim in the fish tank, etc.
Wonderful story. I read this to Max every night, and he loves it.My old dog, Shenga (aka, Bubie)looked just like Carl. Some guy ran up and went, "oh, look! It's Carl!" I, of course, thought he'd lost his mind, not his dog. Then he explained the whole thing to me. And I went, "Oh, cool." And got the hell outta there as fast as possible.Now that I've read the book -- it's a fast read -- I'm hooked.Max rates it Five Barks!Woof!P.S. I found this book in the FREE bin at the library. Imagine that??
I usually don't like books without words but this one is definitely an exception. I really loved it! The pictures are very beautiful and you can "read" the book without having to think what the story is.And now I finally know what Nana from Peter Pan is doing all day!
It's hard to tell a story without words. Day manages quite well. Adults will be charmed as will older preschoolers. Actual babies will have trouble with the detailed paintings and figuring out the story.
I read this to kids ages two through nine, and they all LOVED it. We laughed and laughed at the adventures Carl and the baby have together, and talked about how moms shouldn't really leave their babies with dogs, etc. The pictures are lovely and capture the tone perfectly, without resorting to cutesy. Although Carl on the cover is the cutest picture ever!
What a lovely, humorous little picturebook.
Consisting of a whopping twelve words which open and close the story with mum's departure and arrival, this is a lovely little story of an unspoken friendship between a baby and Carl, the family dog.
What I particularly loved about the book is the notion of a Rottweiler being so gentle and caring with the baby but also the suspension of disbelief and humour that comes with the adventures between the baby and his guardian.
I imagine younger children will delight in the escapades of both of them and, perhaps more importantly, enjoy putting words to the pages.
The entire carl the dog series is wonderful. Told with minimal language, most stories are set around Carl the Rottweiler taking care of a little girl named Madeleine. Sometimes there are more kids but mostly just her. These are great books, if as a parent, you can get past the fact that the parent goes off for a long stretch of time, expecting the dog to watch over the child. Certainly, these stories are set in a different age. They are wonderfully illustrated and kids just love these stories and the dog that e dry one wishes they had.
Beautiful art work and some fun little scenes in this picture book with very few words. Really makes you make up your own story. Although I will never leave my baby alone with our dogs.
The relationship Carl has with the family is one that everyone should have with their pets.Text to Self- I relate to this book in a of couple ways.
I don't think Yogi and I would go on half of the adventures that Carl went on with the baby if she were to leave me home with him however.
Another relationship to Good Dog, Carl and the world would be how trusting and loving families throughout the world are of their dogs.
Many families trust their dogs to protect their home while they are away throughout the day.Text to Text- The only text to text relationship that comes to mind is Beethoven.
From some, this book will beg the question, "Is it really a good idea to leave a Rottweiler (in this case, Carl) in charge of looking after your baby, even if you plan to 'be back shortly?'" But from start to finish, you really can't make the case that Carl didn't do a really good job.Sure, letting the baby swim in the fish tank might not be the most orthodox of ways to entertain a tot, but Carl was right there the whole time and never took his eyes off the tank.
I never got the feeling anybody was ever in any danger.From feeding to bath time, Carl does a tremendous job - and not just for a dog.
Shared this book with my 5 year old daughter.
There are only a few words in this book, it mainly relies on illustrations to tell the story.
This is the original: http://artgen.billerantik.de/articles...I'm not sure how common the practice was of leaving a child home alone in the 1890's.
It's obviously not a socially acceptable practice now, but, kids will mostly just enjoy the funny pictures.
My daughter asked if the baby really did all those things with the dog and I told her that I thought perhaps it was a dream the baby had and that it was based on a really old story.
A fun book that works as an imaginative activity with your kids.
The book shows of a dog taking after a toddler while the mother is away.
He gives the boy rides, food, a bath, plays with him etc.
I went through this book with my 2 younger brothers.
Since the book's story is through illustrations and not so much through words, I let them each take a turn interpreting the pictures, telling the story, then I went ahead and gave them my version of what everything meant.
The artwork shows just enough story but leaves some to the imagination.
This book made me laugh out loud although at times I found myself thinking, I would never leave my baby at home alone with only a dog to take care of her. (Being a new mom fresh in my mind). It is a bit unrealistic, but great for the imagination of a child. I think anyone who likes animals and children would enjoy this virtually wordless picture book. I enjoyed the illustrations and will read other Carl books.
This was a fun little book for the very young readers. There is very little text and the illustrations are cute. Carl looks like a very friendly Rottweiler and takes good care of the baby while the mother goes out. I think children will like Carl the dog. He seems to be smart and funny and he smiles. This book is on the 1001 Children's Books You Must Read Before You Grow Up.
As always, the pictures are lovely. I've become very fond of Carl the dog but find the other books in series more interesting. However, once you've adopted Carl as your book pet, all contributions to the series are welcome and this one is certainly likable.
I love reading this book over and over again. Mom really likes this book, too. I just wish Lucy was as fun as Carl.
Pup and baby shenanigans!
Love this book ... am always on the lookout for young children so I have an excuse to gift a copy ...
That's what I call animal explotation.
I just loved it.
After all their fun Carl begins to clean off the baby and tidy up the house, until he hears the mother coming home.
Will he get everything back to normal before mother comes home?Author and Illustrator Alexandra Day creates this “wordless” picture book to show a fun and silly story of a dog and a baby.
While this does fall under the category of “wordless” there are some words spoken by the mother at the beginning and end of the book.
I think this mixture of real life illustrations with an unrealistic scenario is a fun way to imagine a fantasy world.
This is a fun read that uses only illustrations to tell the story of a dog who is taking care of a baby while the mother steps out for a little bit.
Carl starts to clean up this mess and the baby- but will he be able to by the time mother comes home> Alexandra Day, the author and illustrator, creates a fun story using only a few words and a lot of images.
The illustrations are detailed immensely and gives a realistic feel, although the actual story of a dog taking care of a baby is more on the fantasy side.
I love many things from this book but at the same time it gives me a bad feeling.
So explain the bad feeling, WHY would you leave your baby alone to be care by a dog.
The thing that caught my eye in this book was the fact that the dog acted like a nanny by doing chores and caring for the baby like a nanny would do.
The entire book is of the care taking of the child that is being done by a dog.
This child is obviously not old enough to walk alone, so one of my favorite illustrations was the one with the baby getting out of the crib to hop on the dog's back as if they had done it a million times before.
I found it hilarious watching the child ride on the dogs back throughout the story, following them and watching them walk into each room and seeing what they were about to get into next.
The only thing I question in this book is the fact that the mother just leaves the child in the crib and expects a dog to take care of her for quite some time.
He's a good boy with a big heart, especially when it comes to his family.One might be a little nervous about reading a wordless book because there are no words to explain exaxtly what is happening, the thoughts of the characters,  or the overall impact of their actions.
Day does an excellent job of using Carl's face and actions to show when he is feeling concerned, protective, happy,  determined, and relieved that he is a good dog that has done what he was told to do.
You'll read this book and know that Carl has left YOUR dog with very big shoes to fill.
Now we can follow with delight as Carl leads his infant mistress on a wild adventures, the instant after her mother has left the house.
Carl is just a big dog figuring out adventures while being left alone.
The book is enjoyable and you can only think of what the dog may be thinking.There are two possible ways in which this book could be use in class.
The first way it would be used is to help students with their imagination of coming up with stories by themselves.
