https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37297.Eyes_of_Prey
Book three in the series and I am liking Lucas Davenport more and more.
He has another event in this book where anger management therapy would be advisable but he still manages to be charming and smart as his depression starts to lift.Eyes of Prey has an excellent story line with two totally reprehensible murderers and a lot of blood and gore.
Lucas manages to rise above his personal problems and performs some excellent police work.
He also delivers a major surprise at the end with a twist I did not see coming at all!So * Charming main character - Tick* Interesting story - Tick* Murders and mayhem - Tick* Major twist at the end - TickAll that I desire from a murder mystery.
Most mental health professionals would probably tell you that a clinical depression needs to be treated with a combination of drugs and therapy, but Lucas Davenport found his own method of pulling himself out of a funk by beating the snot out of a pimp and then trying to track down a pair of wacko serial killers.
The complicated case gets Davenport interested in something for the first time in months, and he throws himself into the investigation while trying to find the witness who could identify Druze.The beginning of this one makes it seem as if Sandford was using the burned-out-cop cliché, but what makes it interesting is the twist that he puts on it.
For some reason the Lucas Davenport of Eyes of Prey seemed like a different man from the one in Shadow Prey and Rules of Prey.
From my point of view, the first book in this series was great, the second not so great, and this one not very good at all.
I guess I expected better of a Pulitzer prize winning writer and of the Lucas Davenport character I met in Rules of Prey.
The act of Druze and Bekker running into each other much less thinking of each other as a friend is totally bizarre.
Is the next book better?
Though I think I am doing a PSA by spoiling this book anyway, for those that may hate themselves enough to start reading this series.After a brutal murder of a woman in her home (and seriously, I can do without anymore horrible murders perpetuated by men against women for a while now) a witness is left who saw the murderer.Lucas is called up to help lead the investigation.
There is soon enough another murder which puts the police and Lucas on high alert that another serial killer in their midst (which would have me moving the hell out of the area) and seems to be striking out against women.So I gave this book 1/2 a star for a variety of reasons.First, and foremost, the characters are just a joke at this point.
That will not be easy, because Lucas Davenport is hard on their trail and he's getting really pissed.This is probably the most gruesome book in the series, and Davenport is at his darkest and most violent here.
He's working out of a major depression that has virtually paralyzed him and acting out as a rogue cop ala Dirty Harry, without even a twinge of conscience.As always, Sandford puts the reader right in the middle of the action.
This might be the best one yet.
I thought it was good all the way through, although the bad guy was a little too weird, but Lucas was very well done.
He's not a complete Iron Man, but the way depression is handled & described is perfect.
And then, there is the very end.
Wow!
I did not see that coming.
Usually I have a clue & there were several, but I missed them since it wasn't the major thread.
It was handled just beautifully.
I can't gush enough.
I was just stunned & still am.
He was attempting to paint Davenport as the incredibly flawed, fucked-up and unlikable police detective that we didn’t get from the first book.
He doles out the orders and sets up the kills while he is away, ensuring that he always has air-tight alibis.Davenport knows the doctor is dirty, and he knows that there is a second killer, but he doesn’t have any evidence upon which to build a case.Sandford does some interesting things in this book.
I like how Sandford sets up the relationship between the two killers, with one being the alpha dog and the other simply following orders.Second, the dynamics between Davenport and Bekker.
I normally would give this book a 4 but since I have read several other books written later with Davenport, I am amazed at how he grows with the series so I give this a 5. Also Sandford does the best job of making you totally hate a bad guy.
The more I listen/read the Lucas Davenport series, the more I like them and get excited for the next one in the series.
In book 3, the author does a great job of showing us the effects of the events from Book 2 has on Lucas’ life and Sanford also does a good job of letting us see a cop on the edge dealing with some emotional turmoil.
It was great to watch Davenport fight for his sanity and get excited about a case again.
The best part of the book was watching Lucas solve the case and see how his brain thinks.

Lucas is depressed. Maybe solving a murder will get him back to himself. Recommended.
Wow, I din't quite liked the first two books of the series but this is something else. Enjoyed it a lot. Always wonder what's inside author's head to make these dark characters, to write masterfully about their sick and twisted minds... Reading this book was as watching horror movie - you're feeling gross and afraid, but still watching - fascinated...
Back to the safer world of fiction where things often really are black and white.Eyes of Prey is the third in the very long running Lucas Davenport crime fiction series.
The woman's lover comes down the stairs in time to get a look at the killer and is able to report a partial description of him.The killers try to figure out who the lover was and they settle on a likely candidate.
His relationship with the married woman from the last book ended, but not before it had destroyed his tenuous connection with his on-and-off girlfriend, the mother of his daughter.
There is a whole list of things that I didn’t like in this book.
If she had only been attacked and saved by Lucas I would have said it was predictable and maybe having her die was supposed to prevent readers from saying that but I still didn’t like it.
The twist is interesting but I had liked the Chief character overall and now I am to believe he is basically a coward.
I didn’t like that Bekker knew that the eyes weren’t cut on George.
I don’t like that when characters in Stamford books go on a drive we are told exactly what highways they are riding on.
He finally turns to an investigation to help him get out of his funk.Lucas is investigating the killing of Dr. Michael Bekker's wife.
Like all of the Davenport books I have read so far, the killers are known by the reader.
Bekker wants his wife dead and Carlos Druze wants the actress killed so they each kill the other's victim.
Also Bekker's wife was with someone right before Druze killed her.
Loverboy doesn't want to come forward but he does want to help get her killer.
Davenport looks for any and all connections he can find between Bekker and the killings.
8/10Lazy New Year's Eve review.The best in the series so far, Davenport is going through a slump and he needs an intriguing case to coax him out of it and wouldn't you know it there is one just round the corner!
The bad guy, Bekker, was the star attraction here for me and I was keen to listen to his sections the most.
I'm looking forward to the next book which contains Bekker again.
I liked the ending and will be keen to jump into the next one early next year.
Does anyone else re-read books? This may be my 3rd time through the Davenport series. There are some elements of these stories that go on a bit too long, but certain passages more than make up for those shortcomings.In this tale, Lucas is asked by a co-worker to look into the brutal slaying of a relative. Through the course of the investigation, more victims turn up with the same type of violent effects. Davenport floats through the theater and art cultures looking for one, or more, perpetrators.His interactions with an actress, Cassie, help make this novel purr like a Porsche.
Third in the Lucas Davenport thriller series revolving around a dirty, yet honest cop based in Minneapolis.My TakeI don’t normally read introductions.
A truth that only gets worse as she lies dying, helpless when help is available.
I gotta know what happens!!Sandford also talks about how Lucas develops his video games, which I find interesting.Jesus, when you read the report on the forensics at the crime scene.
And when you read what Bekker gets up to, it’s really easy to tell that he’s the psycho.
"It wasn't quite human, the thing that pulled itself across the kitchen floor.
Not quite human, eyes gone, brain damaged, bleeding, but it was alive and it had a purpose: the telephone." Thus begins the third novel in the Lucas Davenport series, 'Eyes of Prey.' Arguably the absolute best of the almost 30 book series.
The imagery and brutality rivals Thomas Harris' The Silence of the Lambs with a villain that very much also rivals Hannibal Lector.
Lucas Davenport is a flawed and extremely compelling character, especially in these early 'Prey' novels when he is a detective with the Minneapolis Police Department as he is struggling with depression.
Extremely fuckin’ creepy. Sandford wasted no time in introducing the series’ first supervillain. The guys from the first two were capably violent and disturbing but Bekker is truly the first in what I assume is a long-running parade of cunning psychopaths. I’m on the app so I don’t feel like getting super in depth but this one was the first Davenport book that had me truly thanking the gods old and new for not giving up after my first run at Rules of Prey.
I love these books. Lucas Davenport is wonderful. I have them all thus far and only read one every so often because I don't want them to end
Even his best friend and advisor, Catholic nun Elle Kruger, is not able to lift Davenport's depression, although she lowers the volume on the suicidal impulses.When the maniac Bekker begins his murdeous spree after a fortuitous meeting in a bar with a psychopath, Druze, Davenport is not only trying to unravel whether he has one killer or two, but he is also hiding from Internal Affairs after a complaint by a pimp of a severe beating while being arrested.
Davenport could have been given the boot from the police force easily because of his use of excessive force; Sandford didn't need to have Daniel push Davenport out of the police force because of the chief's affair with the murder victim.
Davenport is depressed because of previous cases that ended badly and a failed relationship...so maybe, just maybe, he should stop being such as a$$hole in his love life and as a cop, and his situation will improve. There is a crazy duo of partner serial killers that was intriguing in this story, and you know Davenport will get his mojo back by the end of the book.
My favourite Davenport novel so far (1-3).Sandford has turned down the Porsche-driving playboy talk and made Davenport a little more vulnerable.
A nutty, good-looking doctor and a mangled troll team up to off a bunch of pesky acquaintances in a bid to improve their own respective lives.
Gruesome as fuck, which I appreciate, and maybe I'm just an idiot but I didn't see the final twist coming at all.The Prey series is fast becoming a favourite of mine and I'm looking forward to many more pages of murders, flashy garms, Porsches and sexy senorita love interests.5 pokey knifey eyeballs out of 5 for this one.
The third book in the long-running PREY series is a major improvement over the second book, which I felt was much weaker than the first installment.
Lucas Davenport is in a deep depression following the events of the second book, and only a new love interest he meets while tracking a particularly bizarre murderer seems to pull him out of it.
It's a much more cohesive novel than the second, and it doesn't get as bogged down with back-story as the first.
I'm glad I got turned on to this series from a discussion on Goodreads regarding series similar to Harry Bosch. This one is great and keeps getting better. The story was great (if just a touch too long), but the ending - WOW!
Very dark, violent - Davenport is sinking and struggles with a case full of near-misses and misdirections.
A typical well done crime novel featuring Davenport, his demons, along with a psycho killer or two. 8 of 10 stars
Hmmm, Lucas isn’t Harry Bosch or Charlie Parker but he’s still a good hero. I enjoyed this one but some of the book was a bit hard to believe. If the lead bad guy was taking as much and as many different types of medical grade drugs that he was then he’d barely be able to peel himself off the floor let alone function as doctor on a day to day basis.
This one was the slowest of the series so far. I still liked it. A killer who doesn’t really do the killing but uses someone else as his pawn. The mastermind has his wife killed and the killer finds her with a man in the house. A lover. Lucas searches for the “loverboy”and assumes they find him when a man shows up dead. We don’t find out who “loverboy” is until the last sentence. On the #4
