https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51737.The_Truth_About_Forever
I'm so glad that this book spends just as much time on Macy herself, her family, and her friends as it does as on figuring out which boy she really wants.I will say that although I enjoyed the small triumphs leading up to the end when Macy finally takes the big step towards changing her life, I do wish that there was a little more time spent with the characters afterwards.
After roughly 370 pages of buildup and a really adorable friendship between Macy and Wes, I felt a little disoriented and cheated when the story ended just a few pages after the really big and sweet scene I'd been waiting for.
First thoughts:I might need to change my rating system for this book to be given only 5 stars.. Also i need some time to sort out my feelings (between both overwhelming joy and sadness) and come up with a proper review, because i have lots of "wow"s in my mind right now, but i fear that it might not be enough to express how beautiful this book really is.This story really touched a soft spot in my heart."It's all in the view. That's what I mean about forever, too. For any one of us our forever c
Also i need some time to sort out my feelings (between both overwhelming joy and sadness) and come up with a proper review, because i have lots of "wow"s in my mind right now, but i fear that it might not be enough to express how beautiful this book really is.This story really touched a soft spot in my heart."It's all in the view.
You never know for sure, so you'd better make every second count." Full Review:This book was so beautiful that I felt the urge to cry so many times, but not just for sadness, but because of all those strong emotions that this story has brought out of my heart.Truth being said, I think I've felt in love that night, while reading it..
I thank this book for giving me an important insight on what could be going on in the mind of a 16-year old girl in today's world.You see, I am a father of a girl of that same age.
I thought that I would have been happier as a child if he jumped up and down when I bought home medals from school or when it was announced that I was in the top 4 of my graduating clss in high school.So, when I became a father, I was like that.
this was my first sarah dessen book and it lived up to all of my expectations!this story had amazing character development, probably some of the best i have ever read in a YA contemporary.
overall, this was pretty enjoyable and im so happy to say that, although this may have been my first book by sarah dessen, it most certainly wont be my last!ps.
i normally read a book in a day or two, so i think the quick and random moments of reading made the story feel really disjointed for me.
i definitely think i would have had much more enjoyable reading experience if i had read this like i do with other books.
This was one of my favorite books in early high school and still stands out as one of the first true YA books I ever found.
They're working an event at Macy's house and end up offering her a job when she steps in to help them.
I loved this crew so much in high school that I went out and catered a few events, no joke.
Throughout the story the new friends help Macy drop her "perfect" facade, relax more with the unknown in life, and start to really be herself.
The whole story has this really peaceful, contemplative tone that I really loved in high school.
Cute Boys, Late Summer Nights, and Blossoming FriendshipsMy umpteenth reread of Rainbow Rowell’s Fangirl  made me realize how compulsively readable the contemporary books that made my 2014/'15 were. So the queen of the genre, aka Sarah Dessen, had to make a comeback for my next reread.They just don’t make them like this anymore. I've yet to experience a new summer contemporary read that receives the surrounding hype of Stephanie Perkins's  Anna and the French Kiss , Morgan Matson's    Since You
shares with The Truth About Forever (I had to note it down with the former book still so fresh in my mind): Wes's pickup truck coming to save the day (Levi's red truck), Macy's denying invitations (Cath), Bert pushing the doors with too much gusto (Reagan's quirk).• My favorite catering crew to exist in fiction, aka Wish Catering, with their tiny mishaps somehow always solved before the night is done.
What sucks is how you can't even see it."It brought to mind this empowering exchange from Skam: • The ongoing "gotcha" scare game shared between the two brothers, Wes and Bert, reminded me of the trailer for the upcoming film Tag and the true story behind it, titled: I've played a game of tag for 23 years.
“For any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. You never know for sure, so you'd better make every second count.”My first and still favourite Sarah Dessen novel. I loved everything about it: Macy, Wes (oh Wes), and everybody of the Wish Catering crew. The plot was cute and exciting and even though it is easily predictable (I mean, that's why we read these kind of books), it was simply perfect.Find more of my books on Instagram
I'd tried to hold myself apart, showing only what I wanted, doling out bits and pieces of who I was. But that only works for so long. Eventually, even the smallest fragments can't help but make a whole.  Now that I finally have some time to put together a little bit of a coherent review, I'm excited to give a little more explanation to my thoughts. I've been seeing this author on the shelves of every big bookstore for years and never gave her a second look. And while I think that there was som
And while I think that there was something missing that made this an absolute perfect and epic win for me, it also touched me in a way not many books do...and I think that deserves to be said.
Grief does absolutely horrible, dreadful, unspeakable things to a person, but I don't think when your daughter is sitting there telling you how much she likes people and how good they are that her kinds of reactions were necessary.
As it is, this book, while not an absolute favorite, came at a time where I looked deep within myself and saw a little of Macy.
Her 'braniac', emotionless boyfriend who possesses the personality of a twig leaves her for summer camp...then she meets Wes and the rest of the perky catering gang who will bring life to her monotonous, boring summer.The relationship between Macy and Wes was tender and I enjoyed their ongoing, adorable game of 'truth.' Although I was hoping for a little more development with in their interactions, their connection possessed the memorable innocence which can only be obtained through youth.
Very charming book, and perfectly appropriate for teens.
▪	 Plot: A broken girl finds hope in friendship and young love.
I also understand why Macy ended up with Jason (there is always a danger when we lose someone we love that the turmoil of our emotions attracts us to people who are in the long term not good for us (too safe or too wild or too contoling)) , and was so glad that he was out of the picture for most of the story.
Having been under the emotional restrictions of a controlling parent I can say from my POV probably not, she would have got back with Jason and spent the rest of her life with an emotionally retarded man ruled by his ability to control people via a mindless set of lists.
I was snorting and hiccoughing with laughter here there and everywhere with this book.I liked the dichotomy of trivial angst vs real life emotions that Dessen sets up because it allowed me to understand the difficulties that Macy feels and her insecurities and allowed me to not only understand her but to relate to her.
Lists.Recommended For.People who like contemporary YA books.
People who don’t really like contemporary YA books but who are willing to give them a try.
People who like boys with a past.
People who like driving around in converted ambulances with excellent best friends.
Original post One More PageI've been trying to think of the best way to review this book, because I feel like the first review I wrote for  The Truth About Forever  did not do it any justice. The thing is, I don't know how to write a proper review for this book without squealing or "sa-woon"-ing so much. Because believe me, I know I did that so many times when I was rereading this book.But let me try again. Sarah Dessen's  The Truth About Forever  is one of my favorite books of all time. It's no
Because believe me, I know I did that so many times when I was rereading this book.But let me try again.
It's one book I've reread multiple times and still get all swoony and happy and wishing for a romance like Macy and Wes did.
One bad afternoon at her summer job, with a bad email to boot, she joins Wish, makes new friends, and meets Wes -- the seemingly perfect guy with his own not-so-clean past, who likes flaws.
Things turn interesting for Macy as she gets to know these people, and as she realizes that maybe it's not so bad if her strictly-scheduled life unravels and she lets chaos in bit by bit.Ah, this book.
But then,she never felt happy working in this place until she met the "Wish Catering" team,and met Wes (my favorite character here).One thing I loved about this book,is the way how Macy and Wes developed their friendship,and the way their relationship built up,starting with the "Truth" game that they played whenever they got the chance.What I didn't like was..some of the chapters were slow and confusing because there were moments when the story's describing one feature of Macy's life,and suddenly,it will plunge into another aspect or scene.
No one could tell you: you just had to go through it on your own. If you were lucky, you came out on the other side and understood. If you didn't, you kept getting thrust back, retracing those steps, until you finally got it right. The Truth About Forever is one of the few YA books I loved. The story is captivating, so touching and so real. Engaging writing style, loveable characters, and Wes who is just the most perfect fictional boyfriend ever. Aww, I wish he was real… I finally felt I was on
If you didn't, you kept getting thrust back, retracing those steps, until you finally got it right.
The Truth About Forever is one of the few YA books I loved.
Engaging writing style, loveable characters, and Wes who is just the most perfect fictional boyfriend ever.
I finally felt I was on my way.
Everyone had a forever, but given a choice, this would be mine.
The one that began in this moment, with Wes, in a kiss that took my breath away, then gave it back—leaving me astounded, amazed, and most of all, alive.
This book deserves 4 stars at least.
There is nothing cliche here and yet, it is about something completely mundane in a very good way.
I absolutely recommend to read this book.In terms of personal tastes, I would give this book 3 stars.
The topic is one that usually doesn't absorb me much, and the only reason I read it is because all the good reviews it has.
This book lacks some elements that I usually look for in a story, but it was undoubtedly beautiful and well crafted.
As I said before, the 4 stars are well deserved.
The Truth About Forever is a good book.
I tried to give Sarah Dessen another chance. Unfortunately it did not work out. This is the type of contemporary I shy away from -really, really slow build up of romance and lots of real life issues (for this reason I steer clear from some of the hugely famous contemporaries with cancer, etc.). A lot of people love this kind of thing but I guess I am just not the right reader. I choose books as an escape and when I read about realistic characters & horrible events in a contemporary setting it just brings me down:(
This is my favorite book in the whole wide world forever and ever. Reviewing it would kill the magic. Just read it, please. That's all I can say. Now, now, now!
sa-woon..! I am definitely a fan of Wes and Macy's! If Dessen keeps leaving me with this oh happy, happy feeling then I am well on my way to adding her to my list of favorite YA contemporary authors. What is it with these authors and their formulae? The very fact that there is a pattern followed should put me off. I mean, there can only be just so many ways to tell the same story, right? But, see, I am not put off, because with each book they offer up I find myself drawn in: There's John Green
I am definitely a fan of Wes and Macy's!
If Dessen keeps leaving me with this oh happy, happy feeling then I am well on my way to adding her to my list of favorite YA contemporary authors.
I too love her!) And now, there’s Sarah Dessen’s one girl, one boy and one summer thing.
But it wasn't just them pair of Wes and Macy that has me giddy.
There’s Wes for Bert, Kristy for monotone Monica and much later Caroline over Macy.
And Macy?
When she finally decided on what she wanted, I went, “At last!”Then there's Wes. Sa-woon.
I love this book so much and I'm enjoying it just as much now as I always have, but I honestly just cannot justify taking the time for any rereads right now. 😂 Soooo I'll come back and finish this billionth reread another time.
But there was only one truth about forever that really mattered, and that was this: it was happening."This was my first Sarah Dessen book and it was just what I needed after the craziness of ACoMaF.This book is about Macy, a girl who lost her father a year and a half before and who is still trying to handle her grief in her own way.
Even the secondary characters were pretty well developed and I loved seeing all the different relationships throughout the book evolve and change.
Excerpt: "You should have seen your face," she said, her breath hot in my ear. "Sa-woooon."I think this was the first book I read of Sarah Dessen and that made me love her forever. Enough said.
Wes was cute and all and I enjoyed their interactions. All the rest of the characters in the catering business felt real and were fun to read about but I WAS SO FRUSTRATED BY MACY (the narrator) THIS ENTIRE BOOK. It really took away from my enjoyment of the story.

Super sweet and very endearing. I loved it. I liked how the relationships developed and grew. The chaos was hilarious and the characters were great.
I just LOVED this book!
The main characters LOVE waffles!
EVERYBODY love's waffles!
Excerpt:"Now, see," Wes said, nodding at my plate, "this is going to blow your mind." I looked at him.
"It's a waffle, not the second coming." "Dont be so sure.
Which was, pretty good.
Damn good, actually.
books like these are COMPLETE!
THIS BOOKS JUSTS BLOW'S YOUR MIND!
It's like a great book with the topping of delicious waffles!
but hello, it is a book!
The author truely does explore the mind and feelings of the main character making it seem so real!
This is such a great story that starts, develops and ends the way it should.
My fave Dessen book by far.Macy Queen has a strained relationship with her mother after the sudden death of her father.
In this job, she meets Wes, Delia and some great friends, and as her mother notices the changes in her daughter, she tries to bring back the old Macy, which isn’t a good thing.
Her relationship with her mother, sister and friends is refreshing to read as I really liked the way she treats those she cares for by trying to do the right thing.
And although I love Sarah Dessen, I feel like this book was not one of my favorites.
I feel like this book was really good, but I didn't love it.
The characters were one of the reasons of why I was confused on whether I liked this book or not.
Macy's mom frustrated me so much, every single time I read something with her on the page, I would feel so angry.
Another thing I loved about this book were the different things that the characters do to each other.
God, I’m head over heels in love with Wes. He’s truly extraordinary.Just like the first time around I’m at loss for words and just can’t seem to come up with a decent explanation as to why I loved this book so much so I’m going to end my review with some of my favorite quotes and let them speak for themselves.“Some things don’t last forever, but some things do.
If your forever was ending tomorrow, would this be how you'd want to have spent it?
It's a quiet, deep, tender and warm story about the main character dealing with grief, how that affected her life and how she's trying to hold it together for her family.
It's about her self discovery and first love.I love how Sarah Dessen was able to showcase different ways of people dealing with grief and what their choices were.
How important it is to have people in our lives who can bring something more out of us.
I wish the ending would've been slightly more cohesive, but this book made me FEEL!Now, all I want to do is read more Sarah Dessen books!
I had previously rated this a much higher rating, but now, looking back on it, it really does feel like another Sarah Dessen book, and it doesn't seem memorable enough for a five star. It was definitely fluffy (most Dessen books are) but that was about it.
