https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2325825.Inkdeath
3.5 stars! I wish I had read this back when I started the series... Still enjoyable and I liked the ending :)
3 (this one) from Germany to find out how it ended, I even ordered the audio book and put it on my iPod so I could obsess about it repeatedly.The cover blurb says, "Der Verlag übernimmt keine Haftung für eventuell verloren gegangene Personen." ("The publishers assume no responsibility for readers who disappear," essentially.
Not just the stories out of books, which play a big role, especially in Vol. 1.
For a medievalist like me this is a delightful Easter egg, and it's hardly the only one.) Each chapter begins with a quotation from a book (the citations chosen vary interestingly between the English and German versions of Vols.
(I can't remember the last time I _forgot to breathe_ while reading.)As one of the other reviewers says,Dude.
The books chronicle the adventures of teen Meggie Folchart whose life changes dramatically when she realizes that she and her father, a bookbinder named Mo, have the unusual ability to bring characters from books into the real world when reading aloud.
Mostly set in Northern Italy and the parallel world of the fictional Inkheart book, the central story arc concerns the magic of books, their characters and creatures, and the art of reading.
از آن طرف مارکله که به عمر ابدی دست پیدا کرده است سعی می‌کند با کمک «ارفئوس»، مو را نابود کند.
همه باید تلاش کنند تا کتاب قدیمی را که مارکله به کمک آن عمر جاودانه یافته است به دست آورند.
خو مُو ایی رِ چوطور رِیت بُدُم؟! :)) اینو اگه بچهتر بودم میخوندم، خیلی خیلی بیشتر خوشم میاومد.( و با این دید که برا سن من نوشته نشده، چار میدم) اما الآن بیاندازه مرگبار بود. جداً میگم. یه جاهایی اوج میگرفت و هَلَف هَلَف صفحهها رو میخوندی. بعد یهو دیالوگها ملالانگیز میشدن و ازون بدتر، زاویه دید ِ دانای کل میاومد شیرینبازی درآره. ولی یه جاهایی گلوی آدمو میزد. ولی بعضی توصیفها، دیالوگها و اتفاقا- به خصوص گرههای فرعی، اونقـــد خوب بودن که من سرمو بالا میاوردم و الکی میخندیدم. و دلم میخواست ازین چیزا
:)) اینو اگه بچه‌تر بودم می‌خوندم، خیلی خیلی بیشتر خوشم می‌اومد.( و با این دید که برا سن من نوشته نشده، چار میدم) اما الآن بی‌اندازه مرگ‌بار بود.
ولی بعضی توصیف‌ها، دیالوگ‌ها و اتفاقا- به خصوص گره‌های فرعی، اون‌قـــد خوب بودن که من سرمو بالا می‌اوردم و الکی می‌خندیدم.
و دلم می‌خواست ازین چیزای قشنگ خیلی خیلی بیشتر بود.
اما اینکه همه اینا کنار هم جمع شن و یه داستان به این حجم و عظمت و چفت و بست خوب درآد، جداً هنر می‌خواد.
حتی آخر داستان حس کردم نویسنده هنوز می‌خواسته بیشتر هنرنمایی کنه و قصه‌های فرعی دیگه‌ای هم بیاره، منتها..
Inkdeath is the epic adventure I expected  Inkheart  and  Inkspell  to be—and as much as I complained about the slow pace, plot meandering, and innumerable characters in the first two books, I can tell you now that all the buildup was worth it. Funke was juggling so many different plots by the end of Inkspell that I was seriously worried that many or all would be dropped or mishandled in the third act, but she surprised me by keeping all of them going until their natural conclusions, and also re
Funke was juggling so many different plots by the end of Inkspell that I was seriously worried that many or all would be dropped or mishandled in the third act, but she surprised me by keeping all of them going until their natural conclusions, and also resisting the temptation to add new ones.
Not every writer can do that.(view spoiler)[Dustfinger is dead, Orpheus is abroad in the Inkworld, the Adderhead is immortal but frozen in the death process, Meggie is angry, Resa is pregnant, Fenoglio is racked with guilt, and Mo can’t tell whether he’s himself or the Bluejay these days.
Having now read the final book in the series, I see why that original title was so apt and think it was very unfortunate that it was changed.
In the world of the INKHEART book.
Can the story be changed?
She was in love with Farid in the last book.
Up to the very last page, I was totally unsure.
Or at least, I was satisfied.)The book is dense with plot, characters, world, and ideas.
So for fans of the previous two books, I think you are in for a exciting, thought-provoking, and satisfying final ride.
Violante offering Mo her alliance; Violante being in love with the Bluejay; Mo visiting Death and making a bargain with her (I never would have expected Death to actually be personified and revealed as a character in this story, so I didn't know what to think when Mo went into the world of the dead – and I was stunned right out of my skin when Mo met Death); Dustfinger coming back to life (I was convinced that he was going to stay dead, forever, so it's a huge surprise when Mo brings him back into the world with him); the whole thing with Meggie falling out of love with Farid and in love with Doria; Mortola coming back and allying herself with Orpheus; her turning into a magpie; Resa turning into a swift; Basta's spirit being the Night-Mare (I thought Night-Mares were just nameless creatures, so it came as quite a shock.
Warning: Review will probably contain spoilers and I'm kind of lazy to hide them this morning.To start off, Dustfinger is dead.
I kind of thought her and Farid were cute in the second book - but the guy straight up annoyed me the entire time in Inkdeath.
I absolutely loved Doria's character and instantly forgot about Farid.Then there's Mo and Resa.
Nothing really happens there but it was kind of annoying to go through all of that crap too.
I still ended up loving the shit out of the character.
I did, however, end up getting bored here and there while listening to the audio book.
You'll feel happiness, love and safety in the arms of your new family, your new friends or a new lover, all of them made of ink and words.
That and more is what the Folchart family went through while in the Inkworld.And every possible feeling is what I felt while reading this amazing series.
After all, what good does a book do if you don't expect yourself to explore the deepest parts of your mind and live a mindblowing adventure and experience?For words have the power to give us access between different worlds, people and feelings.
:)This third installment was a bit darker than the last 2-- much more like the ending of InkSpell.
I admit to be a little confused at the beginning-- the number of characters and the switching of view points every few pages seemed a little overwhelming at first but that soon goes away and you just get absorbed.
I really enjoyed Doria's character and the little glass men, Rosenquartz and Jasper.
I also liked the much better development of Resa's character.
I hope anyone who reads this enjoys it as much as I did!
Re-writing this review because I was young when I last read it and I was angry.
After all Inkheart was the first book I ever read.
Not really my intention, I was just heartbroken over the book.
Not going to write a long review, but I still dislike this book for many reason I guess all ranging from plot wise and like certain aspects of it.
I'm still sad about how the ending of the book turned out.
So in the end I like to pretend this book didn't exist and that the bittersweet but far more perfect ending for me in book 2 was the end of the series.
The next part of my review contains......................SPOILERS!!!!!.......................................Ok, when it comes to Meggie's boy choices, I really like Doria.
Farid spent more time pining after Dustfinger than he did after Meggie, which says something about how he is.
They didn't need another girl in that family anyway.No, what I really didn't like about the book is the way it jumped around.
Mo...don't even get me started on Mo. I know she was trying to incorporate the whole "Bluejay taking over" thing, but it just made him into a selfish jerk.Anyway, just wishing it was better.
Right now, I like it mostly because it ended the series.
Manche lösen sich, andere werden neu geknüpft, denn die Angst, die Hoffnungslosigkeit, aber auch die Wut färbt auf jeden von ihnen ab und schafft ganz neue Wesenszüge.Ich hab ja jeden von ihnen ganz besonders ins Herz geschlossen, denn jeder für sichElinor ist ja eher eine Randfigur, aber gerade sie mit ihrer Entschlossenheit und ihrem Glauben an ein "gutes Ende" frischen die düstere Atmosphäre immer wieder so schön auf!Übrigens hab ich hier ein perfektes Zitat gefunden, denn oft wird unter Lesern darüber gesprochen, wie die Figuren aussehen, wie sie sie sich vorstellen und dass sie ein genaues Bild vor Augen haben: mir ging das noch nie so, ich kann mir meist gerade mal die Haarfarbe merken ..."Ein Leser sieht die Figuren einer Geschichte nicht wirklich.
این ریویو رو برای هر سه جلد مینویسم:جلد اول در مقایسه واقعا به کتاب کودکان میمونست. سفر یک دختربچه با پدرش به دنیای غریبی که با خشونت و بیرحمی، وجه دیگری از دنیایی که درش زندگی میکنیم، آشناش میکنه. یک کتاب معمولی با روایت و اتفاقات معمولی در ژانر خودش. جلد دوم اما اتفاقات هیجانانگیزتری میافته، شخصیتها از سفیدی و سیاهی مطلق درمیان (تقریبا البته!) و غافلگیریهای خوبی در راهه. جلد سوم که بهترین جلد مجموعه است، همه معادلات رو به هم میزنه. دنیای جوهر رو به سیاهترین شکلش توصیف میکنه، و قهرمان رو تا مرز
فقط یک حالگیری بزرگ، یه شکاف بزرگ در روند منطقی داستان، یه استفاده‌ی اکستریم از اتفاقات جادویی در جلد سوم وجود داره که چون گفتنش این ریویو رو اسپویلر می‌کنه نمیگمش.خوب بود در کل.
فقط اختلاف قیمت جلد اول (9000 تومان) و جلد دوم و سوم (35000 تومان) کمی عجیب و ناراحت‌کننده است.
مخصوصا که من این دو جلد رو بعد از خوندن جلد اول تهیه کردم و ترجیح دادم همین ترجمه رو ادامه بدم (چون ترجمه‌ی دیگری هم در بازار وجود داشت).
یا حداقلش اینه که در دنیا این جور مواقع یک نسخه با جلد نرم و قیمت کمتر هم چاپ میشه که آدما حق انتخاب داشته باشن!
A fantastic end to the trilogy with a finale that left me completely content - no loose ends and remarkably realistic for a fantasy. Inkdeath is certainly something to look forward too.
2.5
But the INKHEART trilogy continued to put it's best foot forward all the way through it's very last pages.
Now I am usually distraught when a main character isn't killed in some glorious manner for the sake of the series, but INKDEATH, somehow didn't need a monumental sacrifice to make it solid.
He is one of the most beautiful and compelling characters I've ever read.
If Funke made any great achievements with this series, it was in the character of Dustfinger.
I could almost say that I dislike her character after reading the third book.Mo - Mo's transformation into the Bluejay was superb!
The idea has always been original, but the writer doesn't know how to develop the story in an interesting way.
Let's just say that the book only starts to get interesting in the last 100 pages or so, and it's 700 pages long!
Nothing happens for a long time and, when something does happen, it's just too sudden, out of nowhere, and it finished quickly.
Characters die, resurrect, die again, suddenly some can get out of their body to avoid really dying...
She still needs to polish too many things, like not knowing how to cope with a long story.
I loved the first book and enjoyed the second, the third fell a little flat.
Maggie - who played such a central role in the first and shared the spotlight in the second - is thrown to the side.
A far cry from the self-empowering themes from the first couple of books.Instead we follow her father, the Bluejay, as he crusades against corruption and fate.
He fights against his own story and to keep his family together despite Maggie's moodiness and his wife's willfulness.
Quite a different feel from the lighthearted words-come-alive feel in the first book.While the story was still interesting, I was not interested in the deep politics of the Inkworld.
I have mixed emotions finishing this series. Not because I didn't completely love it though! I'm sad because my journey through one of my favourite worlds is once again over. But I'm happy because I love this series so much and Inkdeath is my favourite out of the series and it was wonderful revisiting this world. Such a perfect ending to an amazing series! An absolute must read for any bookworm! Because who amongst us hasn't imagine slipping into the pages of your favourite books?
Cornelia Funkes liebevoll gestaltete Website ist eine wahre Schatzkiste. Eine Stunde habe ich mich durch ihren Internetauftritt gelesen und weiß nun, dass sie ein Islandpony namens Jarpur besaß, gern eine gruselig anmutende Mischung aus Eistee und Limonade trinkt und sich seit 2015 in den USA selbst verlegt, weil die Differenzen mit ihrem Verlag unüberwindbar waren. Dort fand ich auch den Blogpost, der belegt, dass Frau Funke an einer Fortsetzung ihrer „Tintenwelt“-Trilogie arbeitet. Leider i
Eine Stunde habe ich mich durch ihren Internetauftritt gelesen und weiß nun, dass sie ein Islandpony namens Jarpur besaß, gern eine gruselig anmutende Mischung aus Eistee und Limonade trinkt und sich seit 2015 in den USA selbst verlegt, weil die Differenzen mit ihrem Verlag unüberwindbar waren.
Verdient sie sein Vertrauen?Herrje, was für ein Auf und Ab. Meine Erfahrungen mit der „Tintenwelt“-Trilogie sind die reinste Achterbahnfahrt.
Wie passend, dass sie sich im Verlauf der Geschichte in eine Schwalbe verwandelt.„Tintentod“ war nicht das Finale der „Tintenwelt“-Trilogie, das ich mir erhofft hatte.
This book is not quite a total departure from Inkheart and Inkspell but it's pretty close.
None of the characters feel fleshed out in Inkdeath.
Farid in particular - he never gets over his weird obsession with Dustfinger.
Now, having weird obsessions with father figures of my own, I feel pretty confident in saying that Farid needs to seek some serious mental help.
Meggie finds a new, completely random and weird, love interest.
But it's still random and weird.
And the love interest character never feels like a part of the integral cast.Mo's character was probably the least disappointing here.
boring. i skipped a couple chapters here and there, (who can blame me? boring books aren't worth my time.) i might go back and reread later.
Umm I really Donno... I totally like Cornelia funke.. but this was just too draggy and boring for me. Sorry!
There were so many intricately woven fabrics and plot threads that it was fascinating to watch, and astounding to see come to the end, looking all neat, though the middle was a tangle.Jacapo surprised me, for one.I always like to make up ways for the characters to win, but this story has a mind of its own, and I can see that my ideas, just like more of the characters' ideas, would have gone awry just because the Inkworld wouldn't like it.
Before, he had been pretty much one of my favorite literary characters EVER, and even though I was glad he was risen from the dead I didn't like how he "became Mo's shadow" or whatever; it completely took away from his enigmatic-ness and his general character, really.Farid was basically shoved to the side in this book, which I didn't mind since I'd never liked him much anyway (yes, I know I'm the only one!), but it seemed a little abrupt how Doria just ran in and Meggie fell for him and that was that.The middle of the book was really good and I was quite enthralled, but towards the end it seemed like Cornelia was rushing the story.
It is very complex and also has some content that I would not think suitable for younger readers.I really rather liked this book from the trilogy more than the first two.
From the start of the series I always liked the plot of being able to read yourself into or out of a story.
Just remember that this is pretty complex story and some content may not be suitable for younger readers.
This last book is a great wrap up of the story and totally worth reading all of them.
This is the third book in the Inkworld trilogy. I think the first one was my favorite one. I liked the character development in the second one....and in this one, I liked the ending. My main problem with this one is that many of the key characters started sounding the exact same. They were in constant 'sneering' mode. It was getting old and I started getting bored. The character, Mo/Mortimer/Blue Jay/ Silver Tongue, kept it going and kept me vested in the outcome. So 3 stars, because of Mo and the ending.
Al principio, me costó muchísimo encontrar un ritmo de lectura para esta novela; en parte, se debió a que me negaba a terminar una de las sagas más hermosas que he leído en la vida y también, porque no me encontraba del todo bien emocionalmente.
El narrador hace un trabajo fantástico siguiendo la vida de varios personajes, entre los cuales entran mis seis favoritos, no solo de este libro sino de la saga entera.El primero, por supuesto, tiene que Mortimer Folchart; doctor de libros; alterego: Arrendajo, bandido y héroe en el Mundo de Tinta.
Inkdeath incorporated everything I loved about Inkheart and Inkspell with none of the awfulness of the ending (except for one eeny-weeny little thing, which I'll whine about in spoiler tags in a few minutes).
Because Mo.-Hiding in the trees...it was so cool.-I feel like this deserves mentioning...all the characters love to talk about how amazing the story and the world that they're trapped in are, and provide "snippets of genius" and other stuff like that that may well be Funke laughing up her sleeve.
