https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13158800-the-light-between-oceans
So basically the premise is that a couple, Tom and Isabel, living on a island in a lighthouse in Australia, find a dead man and baby ashore.
It is a human life you're messing with!So Tom and Isabel visit the main land like every three years, and this time they bring the baby, who they have named Lucy, for her christening and to show off to everyone.
This is the point where I want to give up on the book, and it’s not because I hate Isabel for letting Tom take the blame to make him suffer for taking Lucy away.
Irrelevant or distracting side plots would have pulled me away from Tom and Isabel's narrative and weakened my investment in their turmoil.The story is highly emotional.
Stedman crafts a perfectly gray scenario that forces its readers to question their own moral standing.
Allowing the reader to sympathize with morally ambiguous characters is a difficult task, however, Stedman presents her narrative in such a way that the reader can't help feeling the same inner conflict as Tom and Isabel.Considering this is Stedman's first published novel, I am incredibly excited to see what she produces next.
On the Offshore Lights you can live any story you want to tell yourself, and no one will say you’re wrong: not the seagulls, not the prisms, not the wind.So Isabel floats further and further into her world of divine benevolence, where prayers are answered, where babies arrive by the will of God and the working of currents. There's this married couple, their names are Tom and Isabel. For the purposes of this review, Tom = Doormat and Isabel = Batshit Crazy but we'll shorten it to Batshit. It's 1
So when a dead man and a living baby washes ashore, Tom's got a whole lot of fucking paperwork to fill out.
It's never going to be just five fucking minutes, and Batshit isn't just planning to keep the poor half-dead baby just oooooooooone more day.
Now all thought of turning the baby in to the authorities is out the window, because how the fuck is poor Doormat going to explain the fact that they kept the baby for weeks, gave her a name, breastfed her, didn't notify the authorities right away, and didn't notify the authorities that they found a dead body that might be her father.
The book - 4 starsThe audiobook - negative 1000 stars!
(more on that later)This book was a soul crushing catch-22.
The decisions the characters had to make and the options they are presented with range from totally awful to not all that great.
It was interesting to read a book that felt the entire way through like there is no chance for a happy ending.
Which bad option will be the outcome?
The audiobook is terrible.
So bad that I will never listen to another book by this reader (Noah Taylor).
As much as I did enjoy the book, I was thankful when it was over.
And sometimes, just when you think it's done its worst, it comes back and takes another chunk."Remember when you were four years old, and your mother was just about your entire world?
If you can remember that long-ago feeling of attachment to a parent, or if you have a child, or if you have longed for a child of your own, your heart will break for little Lucy.
And it will break for all the grown-ups who loved her, whether they had a right to or not.
The setting accounts in part for the pokey pace, but it's also a big part of the novel's charm.
Please visit www.readrantrockandroll.com to see this review and others...The Light Between Oceans by M.L. Stedman is a heart-wrenching story about a relationship between two people and the risks they're willing to take for each other.
I'm going to say that for me, the story was heart-wrenching.
Tom, who would do anything for Isabel, is a special character I fell in love with from the start.
“I promised to spend my life with you.
I'm really looking forward to reading more by this author and hope she writes more in the future...4****
So he became a lighthouse keeper, and over the next few years, he did his job, and learned his trade, until he accepted the job of lighthouse keeper on the small island of Janus Rock, an extremely remote location off the coast of Western Australia.
But in the time he spent in Partageuse, he met up with the lovely Isabel Graysmark, and over the next months, a quiet courtship occurred, with letters going back and forth on The Windward Spirit with Ralph and Bluey.On their marriage, in 1926, Isabel joined Tom on Janus Rock, and the two of them lived their lives happy, content, and isolated from the rest of the world.
Given the moral choices that form the heart of the plot, this could have been a much better book, if it were, you know, well-written.
And the longer it went on, the more the badness grated on me.
I had to give up at page 176 because I no longer cared about the consequences of the moral choices the characters had made, even though the intrinsic complexity of the questions at the core of the story remained an interesting dilemma.
Pero cuando llega al puerto de Partageuse para de ahí partir a su destino final, Janus Rock, a la primera persona que ve al desembarcar es a Isabel Graysmark.Isabel Graysmark es joven, extrovertida, hermosa y sabe lo que quiere: quiere casarse con Tom y vivir con él en la isla del faro.
Isabel se niega a entregar a Lucy, pero a Tom le remuerde la conciencia y decide hacer algo y ocultárselo a su esposa.Este es el punto en que se afina la línea entre el bien y el mal.
I don't know that I would write such a review now, whether or not I hate a book.
But never do they even address the fact that Tom was being a bastard cruelly raising the hopes of a grieving person.Then they do have to give up the baby.
She lets people assume that Tom indeed was the person to blame, and also that he killed the father.
She calls the birth mother selfish for wanting her baby back.
She calls Tom selfish because he thinks of the birth mother (though he is a moron).
Final rating: 5/5 stars   “...or I can forgive and forget...Oh, but my treasure, it is so much less exhausting. You only have to forgive once. To resent, you have to do it all day, every day. You have to keep remembering all the bad things...we always have a choice.”  One word: Beautiful. And also beautiful. and beautiful. and beautiful....I cannot even begin the review properly. This book crushed my feelings, brought them back together and did it all over and over again. I smiled and i cried. B
Two people who met one day and fell in love.
Here was a beautiful girl, begging to be kissed, and the sun was gone and the weeks were up and he’d be out in the middle of bloody nowhere this time tomorrow.
He took her face in his hands and bent low as he said, “Then this is how you do it,” and kissed her slowly, letting time fade away.
With a dead man and a crying baby.Isabel and Tom are surprised...
things go horribly wrong.~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~The characters of this book are faced with so many choices...and mistakes.
Its a beautiful love story...
this book kept my interest all the way to the end. was hoping for a slightly different ending however, would recommend as a book you 'don't want to miss'.
This book is very good but I'm giving it 3 stars because I'm being severe with the story and not get carried away by emotion.
It is a 'rocambolesque' (topsy turvy) tale, narrated by the all knowing author.See, I can't decide whether the drama in the book has crossed the line and become melodrama.
I know that there are worse books out there, and that many classics are not as good as this book.Despite that, I need an honest view of the book.
But it's worth reading.
Even I don't regret reading it.
'' The oceans never stop.
They know no beginning or ending.
The wind never finishes.
Sometimes it disappears, but only to gather momentum from somewhere else...
'''' He watches the ocean surrender to night, knowing that the light will reappear.
What a book...
What a lovely story..such wonderful prose..
The Light Between Oceans tells the story of Tom and Isabel, two of my most beloved characters ever!
Their unconditional love leads them to the wrong decision.
And then there's no going back...
Its been a while since I read something this good...
And the ending...
In a nutshell, I just loooooved The light between Oceans.

If you want to cry and see your tears falling in your book read this , it's just heartbroken
My very first book for 2013, and one I spent the latter half of last year just longing to get my hands on.Well, I finished The Light Between Oceans in only two sittings, in one single day!
And this novel - a heartbreaking exploration of right and wrong, and the lonely windswept grey island which lies between the two - has completely wrung me out on only Day One of a brand new reading year.
No parent could bear such sorrow, on either side of the swirling misery that is conjured up and thrashed around here in Stedman's threnody to love and loss.
But by the end, I had really warmed to Tom, the hero of the book, who although damaged by his experiences in the war, is such an essentially good and noble person that he lifts this novel into a whole other realm.
Unlike other reviewers here, I thought you could tell it was a first novel - eg great chunks of information about how a lighthouse works plopped down into the story - but it had some really interesting things to say about the moral dilemma at the heart of the story (the relative rights of parents and children)and a very tender portrayal of a marriage.
The most important question was:Where did this tragedy really begin?Tom Sherbourne returned from WWI to Australia, struggling with his own role in the war.
But life dealt her three blows she hardly survived on Janus Rock island where she and Tom were stationed at the remote and isolated lighthouse.
That was the motivation to name the island Janus Rock, implying a binary foundation weaving through the plot:Two oceans - one cold, fierce and icy, perilous; the other warm, tranquil and balmy;Two familiesTwo names for the little girlTwo opposite personalities Tom and Izzy.
She was one of the faces of Janus in contrast with Tom, the hero in the story.
I think he’s like the Great Southern Ocean, turbulent and threatening.
She’s still producing milk and begins to feed the tiny infant.Isabel names her Lucy, meaning light, and welcomes her into the family, making Tom very ill at ease.
They are back to their original situation - Tom, the brooding Great Southern Ocean, Isabel the calm, warm Indian Ocean.
It astounds him that the tiny life of the girl means more to him than all the millennia before it.”They have more shore leaves, and eventually, Tom is placed in a position where he’s damned if he does and damned if he doesn’t.
Tom and Isabel's course in the story is determined by their own answers to these questions.The Light Between Oceans has been waiting patiently in my TBR list for quite some time.
Therefore, the main reason I wanted to read this book was the setting, it is not often that we get to experience a story taking place in a remote island where the lighthouse is the real sovereign of the land.
I wanted a historical fiction with a controversial, dark story, not a reading that would- almost forcefully- try to make me cry.
Entre o Pensar e o SentirA distinção entre Certo e Errado começa como um processo meramente mental!Naqueles casos standard, batidos e estereotipados a mente é quanto basta — compara-os com os seus semelhantes arquivados, fixa-lhes uma etiqueta e espeta com eles na divisória correspondente -- Certos dum lado e Errados do outro.Mas há casos e Casos.

You have to keep remembering all the bad things."This is an engrossing novel in which one person's happiness inadvertently causes misery for another.
One day, a baby is found in a boat that washes ashore, and Isabel thinks it's a miracle and wants to keep the baby as her own.What is the right thing to do?
Tom and Isabel have different answers to this question, and their behavior has serious consequences.
There is a small mystery to be solved, but the heart of the book is about the ethics of the situation, and how decisions affect the couple's relationship.The writing is lovely, and I liked the humor the author included in the novel.
I don't know what's with me lately because this is the second book I've cried over this month and I couldn't even tell you the last time it's happened.Once (if) you accept that the plot revolves around an isolated couple who find a baby in a boat that's washed up on the shore of the lighthouse where they live and, hey why not, decide to keep it, you find that there's a lovely, heartbreaking story in a beautiful setting with characters you love to hate.Once (if) you find it within yourself not to automatically write-off the ridiculous moral wrongness of finding a dead body and a baby, burying the body and then raising the baby without telling anyone (among other far-fetched plot points (view spoiler)[Hannah giving Isabel the obligatory ultimatum was completely un-believable to me (hide spoiler)]), you may just find yourself questioning what's right and wrong.
You could doze off for 50 page sections and still wake up to exactly the same scenery without having missed a single landmark of importance.
Because it’s a novel that is built on a single plot idea with no supporting cast of ideas.
It’s not a bad idea and it might even make a decent film because the endless pages of soap opera chit chat, the bland flowery prose, the heavy handed and unfeasible feeding of tension into the plot’s current and the superfluous domestic embroidery will be excised from any film script.
Nevertheless, I shall proceed with a review of my personal reading experience.The ocean is my very favorite place to be in the entire world.
Its natural white noise drowns out every single ounce of stress in my life like nothing else and the fact it stretches from continent to continent and to depths that we cannot even fathom makes me and my problems feel inconsequential and not quite so urgent in the grand scheme of things.
The setting is only one small piece of a big story though.
Overall, I liked The Light Between Oceans (3 stars), but I didn't feel along with the characters.
When he gets to travel all the way to the South West of Australia, he meets a beautiful and very lively young woman, Isabel Graysmark.
Isabel knows what she wants: she wants to marry Tom and have a big family.
Isabel takes to looking after the baby, while Tom buries the man.
(view spoiler)[But when they find out that the baby's mother is still alive and looking for Lucy, Tom grapples with their decision.
Eventually, Tom and Isabel are apprehended and Lucy returned to her biological mother.
At times, it's absolutely heartwrenching.
A beautiful story of fate, the unfairness of life, and the consequences of the choices we make.
The character representing moral truth is of opposite gender to the author.Tom is rendered thoughtfully with an empathy and insight that impressed me greatly.I found the handling of the lighthouse keeper,a WWI vet a distinctive strength of the novel.The two women represent unchained human instinct;the maternal variety,arguably the strongest force among living things,easily stronger than the conscience of one man who ultimately could not sustain their deception.
Their personalities are rendered uniquely different with purposeful detail but animated by the same need.One senses with foreboding their inevitable clash which steadily increases our anxiety and empathy.Explosive emotions generated by their conflicting claim,result in a head on encounter of the feminine imperative,to which they cling through the fateful conclusion and beyond.
