https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95617.A_Voice_in_the_Wind
Nothing less than 5 Stars for this beauty!This is such a breathtaking story--so honest and hopeful and humbling.
The setting is historical, taking place after Jesus' death, right before the rise of Christianity.
The writing is beautiful and aids this story to life.
If you'd like to read a more in-depth recount of this story, check out Amy (Foxy)'s beautiful review!
Pre-review(view spoiler)[Buddy read with Foxy--who got me to read Redeeming Love 3 years ago (which became a top favorite!), and here we are now finally getting to our 2nd Francine Rivers book.
But Rivers' trump card is her characters, and before I knew it I was in love, really in love, with these people.
I've enjoyed better writing, and not all of Rivers' points hit the mark for me, but I've come across few characters that I've loved as much as Hadassah.
I had to put the down the book at least a dozen times because she made me want to cry - not out of sadness or pity at her incredibly difficult situation, but because she was  so good.
She is the kind of character that impresses, influences and inspires the reader long after the book has been put down.
A simple one word answer would be, “Yes.” It’s written by a Christian writer about a biblical time period.
Being a Christian was a scary thing during that time period because if you were found out that meant you would be fed to the lions as entertainment for the Romans.
He’s fueled by his hatred of Romans and what they’ve done by taking him from his homeland.The beginning of this story is not what will draw you to it.
My all-time favorite book is Redeeming Love which happens to be by this author.
I was asked if this book surpasses Redeeming Love as my favorite.
Walking in the darkness of the garden to pray to God, the faithful slave girl that served with desire and love to the people who she learned to love.
This is the most amazing book to read about how hard it is some time to come to Christ and how hard to overcome your fear.
Everyone should read this amazing book; it will change how they look at life.
God bless everyone who is reading this Series The mark Of the Lion, May the Lord show you his power and change your life with every word that is written within this these books.
An avoider of the romance genre--both Christian and secular--I loved the first part of the book, depicting the fall of Jerusalem and Haddassah's transition to Roman slavery.
I recognize that Ms. Rivers was a successful romance novelist before her conversion to Christianity and accept that this professional strength will necessarily inform her subsequent work.
What a blessing that Haddassah was able to experience such violent loss and slavery without any emotional damage that hindered her from responding as a perfect Christian in every circumstance!
Francine Rivers used to write secular novels, but found her calling was with Christian stories.
I found myself pulled into the story, wanting to know what happens next, and being fascinated with the Roman way of life.
Knowing how Francine Rivers writes, I'm sure the historical accounts of everyday Roman life is pretty accurate.
The descriptions of the Roman gladiator fights were fairly graphic, not to mention the accounts of people being fed to the lions as entertainment.
You will want to know how it continues...
I'm still surprised how people become so inflamed by a blatant Christian theme in a Christian novel, by a Christian writer.
first read: May 13 to May 18, 2013first reread: January 6-16, 2016This....book.....I couldn't begin to describe to you the emotions this book brings out in me.
Happiness, sadness, disgust, anger, love, joy, terror, hate, heartbreak......I just love this book so much.
Its not even this book...THIS author, Francine Rivers....her writing is beyond beautiful, and her 'stories' are not just stories, they are filled, absolutely filled with things that really just, make you think.
This is one of those books that many won't want to read, and so they won't, but its definitely one that everyone should read.
I read this book back in 2003 and LOVED it.
It was possibly one of the best books I have ever read.
I never got around to reading the next two in the series, so I am re-reading it now, so that I can continue with the series.***update***Just finished re-reading this and I am so glad I did, because I had forgotten so much of the plot!
If possible, I forgot just how MUCH I love this book.
I think it is my number one favorite book ever.
I can't wait to continue with book number 2, and eventually read all three in the series.
This story follows Hadassah, a Judean Christian brought to Rome after the fall of Jerusalem, Marcus and Julia, two young Roman citizens, and Atretes, a German warrior and chieftain defeated in battle and brought to Rome as a gladiator.The good: This book was head and shoulders above any other Christian fiction I've read, in terms of willingness to write about the seamier things as well as simple writing talent.
And in general, her history was good, she had a pretty good understanding of how Romans thought, why they disliked Jews as well as Christians, and why they thought both sects were dangerous, crazy, and worthy of being despised and scorned.The bad: Oh, Hadassah.
Loved this. Still one of my top 10 of all Christian fiction novels...
I LOVE THIS SERIES!
Francine Rivers has done amazing things in these books.
What an inspiring character!
I just kept finding myself wanting to be like Hadassah.
It's hard to love others like Jesus did...more than myself.
I am all the time reminded of my shortfalls and selfishness.
But, Hadassah reminds me of many of the characters in the Bible.
I am amazed by the tough choices that she makes and wondered if I could do the same thing in similar circumstances.
The historical aspect of the book is interesting as well, around the time of the fall of Jerusalem.
It bugged me so persistently that it made hard to enjoy or concentrate on reading.The Roman naming system consisted of a praenomen (first name), a nomen (name of the gens), and a a cognomen (second or additional family name), and in some cases a fourth name was added (agnomen).
To add to the blatant ignorance, Rivers repeats the mistake all over the trilogy with other characters, giving the name of Octavia to the daughter of a certain Drusus, to add one more example.And to make it worse, she uses a modern naming convention that was non-existent in Rome: she has the women of the family of Decimus Vidancius Valerian carry the name Valerian as if it were their surname.
This is the first book in a series of three.
I read this one and the second one, but not the third.
Francine Rivers came highly recommended and I tried to read a couple of her books on several occassions but just couldn't get into them.
I couldn't wait to get my hands on the second one either.This is a story of faith and love.
It will lift you up and break your heart and make you strive to find a faith that is as strong as that of the heroine of this story.
I love Hadasseh's beginnings...daughter of a man Jesus raised from the dead, from a devout family who are killed by the Romans in AD 70, with Hadassah being their only survivor (and the family member with the weakest faith), taken as a slave to Ephesus and becoming servant to Marcus Valerian's wealthy, godless family.
They are changed forever because of the waif who entered their house with a shaved head and downcast eyes, but with the capacity to love and serve them...and to teach them of life's true riches.Do you think we live luxuriously today?
Francine Rivers weaves together a historical romance unlike any I have ever read.One frightened slave girl… One pompous Roman man… Whoever would have thought they would fall in love?
However, for Marcus, falling in love with his family’s Christian slave girl will take him on a journey he never could have imagined.
Besides Hadassah’s true and firm conviction that she must not marry Marcus unless he comes to Christ; there are other forces, evil ones, that seek to prevent Hadassah and Marcus from promising themselves to each other.
Others come from Marcus and Julia’s worldly friends who invite the two to partake in and believe all kinds of evil.
A story about a Jewish Christian slave, Hadassah, and her struggles to live amidst the affluence of the pagan Roman empire, including finding love in Marcus, a Roman citizen bent on his pursuit for wealth and pleasure.I was deeply fascinated by the ancient Roman way of life, most especially the descriptions of gladiators and gladiator fights.
I can feel her her pain, her doubts and her fears as she struggles to make her God known to the people she have grown to love and care for.This is a very powerful story of love, deep faith and steadfastness, of courage and of peace.What will happen to Hadassah and Marcus?
I was adamantly opposed to reading a Historical fiction book.
Just having the name historic in the genre turned me immediately off.
After enduring months of constant badgering to give this book a shot by my sister in law, I caved and began the book.
Not only did I fly through this book absorbing every vividly written detail, I was so caught up in the lives of the characters and the beautiful way that Francine Rivers illustrated God's unfailing love that I immediately went out and purchased the other 2 books in the series.
Whether you enjoy Christian fiction or not, this book, and it's sequels, is a must read!
my mom kept bugging me to read an author by the name of Francine Rivers and i kept putting her off.
Then one day i was about 5 months pregnant and bored, so i picked up the first book in the Mark of the Lions trilogy and read the first sentence.
These are not thin books but suffice it to say, i finished all three in about 4 days.
and i have read them several times since.
all of her books are powerful in different ways, but these three and Redeeming Love have affected me and the way i approach my faith deeply.
I was a little surprised to read that so many reviewers were put off by Hadassah's "perfection" when in fact, I saw her struggle with fear throughout the near entirety of the book to be a main theme.
Her fear flared up in different ways throughout, but most notably and consistently in her ability to verbalize her faith - in full.
She wasn't perfect, but she was a character worthy of emulating - from her consistent prayer to her practiced reliance on God ...
even a fictional role model is much more than what we're so often presented with in modern times.
Including a life lived like the one presented here.
This was hands down the best book I have read this year and possibly one of the best I’ve ever read. The main character Hadassah’s fear of telling others about Jesus was so real and relatable. This book made me question myself, and if I’d be willing to risk everything, including my life, for my faith. I found myself falling in love with the three main characters, Hadassah, Marcus, and Atretes, and loved the character development of each of them. I can’t wait to read the next two books in the series, which has now become one of my favorites.
I haven't done research, but I find it hard to believe that a slave would alternate between calling her master "my lord" and using his first name.
Getting that correct doesn't even require personal experience (ahem), a simple Google search is sufficient.As at least one other reviewer has noted, for a Christian book, this is not exactly edifying.
Descriptions of unlikeable characters frittering away their lives at games and parties quickly get old, and I can point to several non-Christian books with much better (and more believable) role models.
Francine Rivers has once again reminded me of why she is one of my favorite authors!
This one’s got everything that I ask for from a book.
It’s thrilling, moving, romantic, and so, so good!
It kept me up for several nights when I simply couldn’t let go of it...
I’ve not sympathized so strongly with fictional characters like I did with these for a long while and I was crying like crazy towards the end!
Since I finished this I’ve been telling myself not to begin on the next book in the series just yet, but to save it, it’s quite a challenge!!!
I'd seen all the 5-star ratings, but wasn't sure what to expect. I haven't read a lot of Christian fiction. This reads more like fantastic historical fiction. You never forget the story's purpose, after all Haddassah is a Christian and constantly struggles with her faith and her desire to convert her Roman family, but there's more violence, sex, and drama in this novel than in a soap opera. And it's beautifully written and narrated, too. I thought it was awesome!
I had tried reading this book several years ago (after I truly loved Redeeming Love), but couldn't get into it.
I'd been told by several to try again, push through the first chapters.
I knew I'd end up reading it, but didn't know when.
A few weeks ago, I picked it up again and was reminded why I stopped the first time...but based on several trusted people encouraging me, I pushed through.
By the third chapter I was enthralled.
The story was unlike any other I'd read, and yet so familiar to me.
I won't wait long to continue reading, though.
Hadassah watches her faithful Father walk away to a likely death because of his passion for sharing the gospel.
The story mainly follows three characters, Hadassah, a young Jewish early Christian, who is sold as a slave after the Roman victory over Jerusalem.
It showed the reality of evil, and the process of corruption one small choice at a time.I get fed up with some of these "Christian Fiction" books where lust is glorified and sin isn't shown for what it truly is.
"A Voice in the Wind" was an exciting story that I thoroughly enjoyed.
WOWThis has become one of my favorite books ever and I cannot wait to read more and immerse myself again in this amazing story and characters.
Even though this could be described as a Christian book and preaches its beliefs I really think non-Christians can appreciate it as well especially if you like reading about gladiators and this amazing but terrible time in history.
I liked RL but this is in my opinion a masterpiece of writing and storytelling.The setting: Imperial Rome as got to be one of the best historic periods for a writer to write about and Francine does an amazing jog setting the time period perfectly, the characters, the way of life etc.
Just like any other of her books, no words can describe it, God's love is very present and overwhelming!So many write this, but it's true, no review I could write would give justice to how great this book is.The characters are written so well and the way they changed was masterfully done - subtle changes to a personality, yet over time you notice big differences, just as it so often happens in real life.
Reading the New Testament after the gospels, especially all the letters, will be quite different now, because this book really puts you in that time, shows you how people lived in a very real way.
Somehow, Francine has managed to create one of the most beautiful stories I have ever read in my life.
A Voice in the Wind is one of those stories where you get overly-attached to the characters, and you've absolutely no idea why.
With Hadassah, you absolutely know why you love her.Hadassah is probably the sweetest, most beautiful woman whom I've ever read about.
Her faith is miles beyond any I've ever seen, and she serves with true love all those whom she is around.
This book as a whole pushed my faith to its limits, challenging me to serve more, to love more, and to be all that I can be.
I find myself having such a hard time finding christian fiction that I like because most of it seems to be centered around romance and that can be depressing for a young woman who is unhappily single.
I had been talking to my Aunt Julie and explaining how I was having difficulty because I have such a love for reading fiction but I also have to be aware of what I am feeding my brain.
The main reason that I loved this book was because it gave me the relief of reading fiction while also keeping me centered on Jesus.
I LOVED THIS BOOK.
Let me start by saying, I didn't really enjoy Redeeming Love, so I was hesitant to read this book, but I am so glad I did.
Set in ancient Rome, at a time when Jews and Christians alike were persecuted, we see Hadassah, a slave for a wealthy Roman family, and how much her faith grows.
Between the romance, the scandals, the challenges, this book never left me feeling bored.
There is always something to follow.
I loved the transformation of some characters and the ending of the book left me wanting more.
