https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19635.Anagrams
Moore’s contemporary and humorous prose makes this approach not only crisp in its freshness but also memorable because of her believable characters.There are only 3 main characters: the 32-y/o Benna Carpenter who is a poet, a teacher, a nightclub singer or an aerobics instructor depending on the version of the story that you are reading and/or prefer to take away as your favorite version of the story.
If you enjoy stories about single people looking for partners in their late 20's of early 30's, try reading this book.
Eleanor, as friend and rival (both imagined and real), perhaps functions hermeneutically, as a way to comment on the story, present a foil, or just add a third tip to the triangle, echoing the question: why is it so hard for two people to just love each other?
Known principally as a short story writer, Moore creates a novel with a vividly cinematic eye (an image of a menstrual stain on a nightgown waving in a tree at a yardsale resonates with loss and loneliness) paired with pithy humor.
The description of the book as a love story, and of the characters as angry, does not quite give the novel credit.

In another, Gerard is a lounge singer who wants to become an opera singer, while Benna teaches at a community college.Get it?Their relationship also changes: they’re alternately lovers, FWBs, friends who used to date… A character named Eleanor also pops up in various incarnations, usually as Benna’s friend.
And themes like illness and infidelity are thrown into the mix.In the long, novella-length final section, Moore frequently switches point of view, sometimes Benna’s first person POV, sometimes third.
Some stories from Birds are among my all-time favourites.In the meantime, no literary candy – at least for a while.(This is more a 2.5 than a 2, but Moore can do so much better.)
Anagrams is about two people, Benna and Gerard, who are in love - sort of.
We see them interact, talking about their lives and generally being messed-up people, and then a new chapter starts.
They talk about their lives and are generally messed-up people, and then a new chapter starts.
The details of Benna and Gerard's lives change, but the central story stays the same: two lonely, unhappy people are trying to figure out their lives and each other, and not doing a very good job at it.
An extremely well-written, provocative, witty, and thought-provoking novel about the vagaries of modern life.
I couldn't write like this even in my dreams.
I will certainly read more of her work in the near future.
To read it is to learn while feeling.I wish I could rate it 4 1/2 stars.
I withheld the 5th star only because I found some of the darker passages quite disturbing, and some may wish to avoid a book that puts a little 'too much perspective' on modern life.
On the other hand, these reactions were likely just what the author had in mind when she was writing.
I often thought of that long-ago lecture while reading this book, as I watched Moore turn the crystal on three people and how their lives intertwine under different sets of circumstances.This slender volume could more accurately be described as a set of linked stories than a novel.
Each “chapter” puts Benna, Gerard and Eleanor together in different iterations and looks at how their lives would shake out as small, or sometimes large, things about their histories are changed.
I also loved the rearranging of images throughout--the way, for instance, Moore used "bathmat" as a metaphor in a number of different ways.With all these ideas strolling through the book, Moore was smart enough to also give us great humor and beautiful prose, making the reading experience a joy.
There are other ones, but you will have to read the book the find them:"The problem with a beautiful woman is that she makes everyone around her feel hopelessly masculine, which if you're already male to begin with poses no particular problem.
here is someone."Don't let this book fool you.
You might pick it up and be humored by intellectual puns and clever turns of phrase before you realize you are reading what appears to be the highly conventional story of a woman in an unfortunate relationship.
Like Todd Solondz's film Storytelling this novel plays with notions of fact and fiction.
It isn't as simple as having a reliable or unreliable narrator, it's that everything said can mean something else, and perhaps even people are imperfectly rearranged anagrams of each other, leaving a letter out here and there, a fact twisted this way or that.
life is sad.
life is sad.
here is something to make the sadness pretty.
I struggled with this book a lot.
The beginning was good but then around the middle it got really confusing to me.
What was real, what wasn't?
I'm still confused, actually, about when Gerard was her teaching assistant?
I don't know.
But, in the end it really all paid off for me.
I do think the beginning and middle parts function more/better as short stories, but the end section is really worth the confusion you feel trying to connect the beginning.Also, I really love reading things that play with language.
And I would agree that the concept of Anagrams - looking at roughly the same character, Benna, from different angles, in different anagrammatic combinations if you will - is slightly cleverer than its execution.
We encounter Benna in every story but she's ever so slightly different - alternately a singer, lover, teacher, friend, always linked to the characters Gerard and Eleanor (who themselves change from story to story).
This gives Benna greater depth and allows Moore to build on the shape-shifting of the shorter stories to create a character who is still a bit of an anagram insofar as she has no idea who she is or wants to be.
I seriously think if I could choose to write like *anyone*, it would be Lorrie Moore.Moore does something amazing in the beginning of this book; she rearranges the characters' lives over and over in various short stories--hence the name Anagrams. Then, the last piece in the book is a novella using the same characters. Like all of Moore, it is by turns laugh out loud funny and heartbreaking.My only fear in recommending this book to students is that they will think I'm the main character in the novella. I swear--that is NOT me!
Not only does Moore have the rare talent of being able to pull off a long series of puns with panache and grace, but she's pulled off a structural coup that has crushed my heart. This book, a blend of impeccable comic timing and sadness that loops back and references itself repeatedly, and a net of repeated phrases that build on themselves Vonnegut-style, merits a one-sitting read to catch all the nuances.
There are many funny bits in this comic multi-plot relationship diatribe, but make no mistake. This is a confusing read unless someone tells you what to expect...a do it yourself construction/deconstruction. Perhaps this would work better reading it with a group? I couldn't like it as a novel. I would include some of the funnier lines, but then it could mislead.
I was just going along with this book for a while, enjoying the humor, and then all at once it sidewinded me in the gut.
A woman could never be enough of the world, I thought, though that was what man desired of her, though she flap her arms frantically trying."At worst, I kept getting a mental image of the Carrie Fischer character in When Harry Met Sally (which is a movie I hate) sitting in a diner with her girl friend, making penis jokes that are slightly too clever and refined for real life.
Moore's prose is packed to the gills with clever wordplay.
I realize I've been giving so many books all five stars, but really, they are all five-star books. This one was just beautiful. Lorrie Moore's work is indescribable and all the more powerful for it.
The book plots the course of their relationship as it might take place if Gerard was in love with Benna, fully-clothed in his bathtub and listening for her to come home to her neighboring apartment; if Benna was in love with Gerard and Gerard left anyway, sold their belongings at a yard sale and then took the dog with him; if Benna was widowed and Gerard just a friend, the two of them meeting every morning for breakfast to discuss their most recent lovers.
“Anagrams” is a concept novel where the characters in the story stay basically the same, but are rearranged a little each instance a slice of time gets retold.
What remains constant is the two main characters, Gerard and Benna, are in love with each other, but each “do-over” can’t make their relationship work, whether they are involved in a romantic one or not.It kinda reminded me of that “Sliding Doors” movie, which I don’t remember enjoying, but liked the idea.
For that reason, I liked the book, but some of the conventions used to tell the story were cheesy, at best.
Its brilliant observations of life, no longer as a spring chicken, are only bettered by its moving discussions on love desired, lost and ignored.
Even if things are going from bad to worse, socially, romantically and financially, life isn't that bad.
In a subtle and heartfelt story, Moore urges us not accept that which fate deals us, and also take a moment to look around and see the positive, not merely the negative.
A life of boredom can be avoided if you take a route straight through what is called 'Anagrams' by Lorrie Moore.
"Life is sad.
Here is someone."--AnagramsThis is Moore's first novel and the tone often feels overly clever.
There are a lot of jokes and high stakes in charisma.
The end brought everything home, though.
The main character's sadness and devastation felt particularly real in the last scenes with her brother.
Moore is really talented at capturing loneliness despite the cleverness or as a respite from the cleverness.
Looking at her entire career, that's kind of what Lorrie Moore does best, keeping the saltiness with the sweet and not having one overwhelm the other.
The more she wrote, the better, the more knock-down-your-block powerful she became at it.
You know the simultaneous feeling of sad and happy that an airport gives you? That's this book in a nutshell. It reflects the weary while making you laugh harder than you expect to. It's ideal for lovers of language and puns, for those who prefer to deal with words and invent entire worlds in their head than deal with the inevitably disappointing reality of everyday life.
I laughed out loud so many times while reading Anagrams that my sister became curious and I had to read passages to her. But in the end it much more than comedy, a deep and moving experience. I am still puzzled by the way the book is structured, but I wouldn't want to lose any part of it, so I guess it worked well.
This is both the best and saddest book I've ever read. Actually, I'm not sure why we aren't all spending all of our time reading this book forever. I can't say why because, well, pretty much anything I'd say would be a spoiler, and this book is too good to spoil. Seriously, this book is so good that I might get a Lorrie Moore-themed tattoo.
I'm kind of in love with Lorrie Moore. She is so funny and devastating and her women are weird as hell... which is why they're so wonderful. This is one of those books that makes me hate taking things out of the library because I can't underline all of my favorite lines. I feel kind of wrecked now that it's all over, which I wasn't expecting at all.
Lorrie Moore’s Anagrams is nothing short of a masterpiece––the perfect book to save me from of a recent string of novels that didn’t cut the mustard.
I repeat this, breathing on my cigarette, blowing upward into the light: At night all ghosts, all angels, haloes, luminous flowers are this nicotined dust against the streetlamp." (113)"A line [of poetry] is like a lifeboat––only a limited number of words get to go in it and you have to decide which word-lives are most valuable; the rest die." (116)"All of life seems to me a strange dream about losing things you never had to begin with.
A funny and sad book, all at the same time.
There are four short stories and one novella, which together make a somewhat postmodernist novel.
Benna and Gerard are the main characters, sort of, but in each story they have a different relationship to each other and their characters are someone different, as though in each story, they, and other characters, are anagrams of the stories that went before.
There are themes that tie them together as well--music, aerobics, teaching, childlessness--and lots of puns and wordplay.
The novella, "The Nun of That," is hilarious and deeply sad at the same time, with an ending that is just right.
- I got this from the Putney, VT Mini-Library of used books and someone from Bennington College (Vermont) had read this - I assume for a course.
I've never seen anyone make such detailed notes in a book - it was entirely distracting!
The note-taker was a genius - as far as I was concerned - so I was rapt in his analyses - thus missing my usual "book fluidity".So - my not very literary review: excellent book about 4 people - in different scenarios - some reality and some fantasy.
Wonderful book.P.S. I'm in love with you, Bennington College student for your heady comments.
It was fascinating reading Moore's first book; it's a strange one. The 'anagrams' trope plays out, fairly successfully, though once the vignettes that start the book ended I found myself so compelled by the final section ("The Nun of That"), that I lost sight of how the earlier shorter sections informed it. You can see, even in this first outing, her acrobatic similes shining, her wild, roaming imagination blooming. Definitely worth the ride.
Everything I've read by Moore has been great. 'Anagrams' was also good, but it was the first story of hers that I've read that felt uninspired. There were parts that were classic-Moore (i.e., funny characters, dysfunctional conversations, etc.) but they were few and far between compared to everything else I've read by her.
“Life is sad. Here is someone.”
