https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35108805-a-higher-loyalty
He has had his struggles and personal tragedies, and I do think he gives himself a far more human face with this book, when before I knew so little about this man beyond his questionable actions.
Despite having a better understanding regarding the difficult decisions he faced, and hearing his uncertainty about how to handle the Clinton investigation, he never seems quite willing to take responsibility for the fallout, even after he makes it very clear how little respect he has for Trump.
All the same, this is the outcome we got and I feel my liking for this book and my sympathy for Comey waned considerably once I realized he would not be taking any blame.
Oh.... this is going to make a certain *president further soil himself. Heh heh.More popcorn please!*fake, illegitimate, criminal president
All bullies are largely the same. They threaten the weak to feed some insecurity that rages inside them. I know. I’ve seen it up close.  James Comey is a lawyer, and in A Higher Loyalty he has presented a case to the jury of American public opinion. He lays out the steps of his interactions with Swamp Thing, from introduction to long-distance buh-bye. This is what happened, here, here, and there, on this, this, and that dates. This is what was said. This is what I understood those words to mean
Image from SusieMadrak.comHere are the charges-----Did Director Comey tell the truth when he testified that the president had pressured him to drop the case against Michael Flynn?-----Is Director Comey an egotistical prima donna who put his personal needs and perspective above the needs of the nation and his bosses?-----Did FBI Director Comey, with forethought and malice, and by choosing to break with FBI protocol, deliberately affect the 2016 presidential election in such a way as to damage the campaign of Hilary Clinton?Questions-----Does Swamp Thing really run his White House as if he were a mafia don?-----Does a guy who’s 6’8” really think he can fade into the woodwork by getting up close and personal with White House drapery that sort of matches his suit?-----Has Comey behaved in a non-partisan manner in the jobs he has held, in the decisions he made in those jobs?Image from @dumptrump33 – Of course we may be raising our expectations a tad high for RMAs for that central thrust thing, it is alluded to in the opening quote.
Goodreads is crap. How can folks review or rate a book that hasn't even been released yet? Since we are rating a book we haven't read yet, I'll give it 5 stars just because it may cause trump to have a stroke.
She didn’t do anything alone, but her voice, along with the voices of many other good people, changed our country.
Comey, as acting attorney general, has offered his opinion that “Stellar Wind”—a government program of warrantless wiretapping—is illegal, but Vice President Dick Cheney won’t be deterred by claims of illegality:
Donald Trump, during his tete-a-tete dinner with Comey, speaks of the White House menu cards:
The president began by admiring his own menu card, which he held up.“They write these things out one at a time, by hand,” he marveled, referring to the White House staff.“A calligrapher," I replied, nodding.He looked quizzical.
We are the ones who chose not to re-elect Jimmy Carter because he was too good of a man and too kind of a man.
The book will take you through a teenager trying to avoid being murdered, a mafia boss in court, pasta made by a serial killer, the truth about Hillary’s emails, and what happened with Trump.There’s no smoke and mirrors.
Each time I saw one, I could feel how the people in America were a community filled with a lot of love and light.
If they do, I'll read it, but I'm not keen on giving money to the guy who probably made Trump president by reigniting the Hillary email server issue just before the 2016 election.Trump first said he'd fired Comey because of his actions here.
But then he turned round and gave a second version of the story, where he said that really he'd fired Comey because he wouldn't be cooperative about the Russia investigation.
The direct result was that Mueller was appointed to find out what was going on, which could end up getting Trump impeached.
And here I thought I couldn't hate Donald Trump more.
I knew little about James Comey, the ex-FBI director, before he was brought to my attention and I'm sure many of yours, after being fired by Trump.
Unconsciousable!This book describes Comeys life, his many years in the public eye, service to his country.
His time in the Bush White House, as director appointed by Obama, and then in just the last part of the book, Trump.
He lays out clearly what the role of the FBI must be, a service that to put the public first must remain unbiased.
One may not agree with all of Comey’s decisions, but this book shows the rigor of his thinking and it’s hard to assail.
The astonishing thing is that much of his life, in addition to the law, has involved the study of what constitutes optimal leadership.
He’s thought long and hard about it.
Throughout the book he recounts examples of leadership that impressed him from a very young age and throughout life.
Comey’s writing is exemplary, his arguments persuasive.
Naturally, no comparison can be made between Comey’s concise arguments and the moronic tweets of his tormentor.
James Comey has written this quasi-memoir not only to set the record straight from the perspective of the FBI, but also to explore his own life through a lens that he describes in the opening pages of his book.
Comey explores how he has sought to live his life in such a way that truth and justice prevail, free from political and personal bias, which he comes to call a ‘higher loyalty’.
Instead, Comey chose to present his side of the story (life, rather than just recent events) and to support that he has always tried to take a neutral and principled perspective.
read by James ComeyBecause I listened to James Comey talk about this book on network TV, - mostly the political aspects- the night before it’s release date- I thought I had a good idea of what to expect.
He acknowledged his parents and teachers beautifully.
Comey is not just a humble man but very down to earth.
This book was fabulous- hard to believe there was a time when Comey was bullied at school...He thought, perhaps, because he was in the choir, smart, and still had some baby fat.
Thankfully, Comey, used those experiences to contribute to the ‘greater good’ in life.
It's about Comey: how he grew up, what is important to him, how he views the world, the experiences that shaped his world view, and his opinions and decisions on everything from #blacklivesmatter to whether Apple should encrypt their data against the government.All of this is designed to lend credibility and weight to his words when he finally gets around to discussing President Trump and Trump's actions in the last three chapters of the book.If you are ONLY after the Trump-bashing and reading this book to get the sweet, sweet rush of hate you feel when people criticize Trump, skip this and read Wolff.
Further, I believe that Comey, on his worst day, has more integrity than Trump, his cabinet, his family and everyone he has appointed or hired before or after becoming president have collectively.
I had not been aware of Comey's impressive resume and I didn't realize that he had worked under Rudolph Giuliani in New York.
It's good to know that the people who worked for Giuliani recognized what an asshole he is.
Unfortunately, that didn't keep him from getting elected mayor of NYC, just like it didn't keep people from voting for Trump.
He believes that the damage caused by Trump will be short term.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm honestly shocked that some of you haven't figured out my political affiliation by this point since I try to be pretty open about it, but yes, I am a liberal (I mean, I live in SF, for god's sake, LOL). And yes, I like to read left-leaning/political books. Seems like this should be pretty common sense and I don't think I'm particularly inflammatory, but literally every time I pick up a book about politics or feminism, a bunch of people i
Seems like this should be pretty common sense and I don't think I'm particularly inflammatory, but literally every time I pick up a book about politics or feminism, a bunch of people immediately unfriend me, hence the books-that-made-me-lose-friends shelf.
#SorryNotSorry)So for future reference, I am a Californian, free-trade-coffee-drinking, feminist-thinking, left-leaning, energy-efficient-car-driving, climate-change-believing liberal hipster snowflake.YOU CANNOT SAY I DIDN'T WARN YOU.Now that that's all out of the way, let's talk A HIGHER LOYALTY.
Patrice's quest to make things right for all mothers influenced Comey's view of the purpose of the justice system, and persuaded him to return to public service.Back in the public harness, Comey assisted with the infamous Whitewater probe; led the investigation into the terrorist bombing of the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia; became the Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; and finally returned to the Southern District of New York, where - in 2002 - he stood at Ground Zero and "thought about the unimaginable loss." Later, Comey prosecuted the very popular lifestyle guru Martha Stewart for lying to the FBI during an investigation into insider trading.
”We are experiencing a dangerous time in our country, with a political environment where basic facts are disputed, fundamental truth is questioned, lying is normalized, and unethical behavior is ignored, excused, or rewarded.”  James Comey, former FBI director, former U.S. attorney general for the Southern District of New York, former U.S. deputy attorney general during President G.W. Bush’s administration, former prosecutor of Martha Stewart, and the Mafia. A man who most of the general public
”We are experiencing a dangerous time in our country, with a political environment where basic facts are disputed, fundamental truth is questioned, lying is normalized, and unethical behavior is ignored, excused, or rewarded.” 
”Ethical leaders do not run from criticism, especially self-criticism, and they don’t hide from uncomfortable questions.
”Ethical leaders choose a higher loyalty to those core values over their own personal gain.”
What our leaders say and do (and tweet) affects the world.
”A commitment to integrity and a higher loyalty to truth are what separate the ethical leader from those who just happen to occupy leadership roles.
His public disclosure in 2015 mandated the later decisions, because it established a “duty to inform.” And his lone-wolf announcement about the investigation's conclusions in July 2016, without checking with the Justice Department because he believed it would politicize things (read the book for the details for that conclusion) belied his own belief in checking what he was certain was true with people of contrasting opinions—and trusting them to be just as fair and responsible as he.I read and liked Hillary Clinton’s 
And I believe that Clinton and Comey suffer from the same blinding arrogance at times, and blaming one more than the other is a distortion of what happened.
From prosecuting the Mafia and Martha Stewart to helping change the Bush administration's policies on torture and electronic surveillance, overseeing the Hillary Clinton e-mail investigation as well as ties between the Trump campaign and Russia, Comey has been involved in some of the most consequential cases and policies of recent history
Some people are paying personally for that assumption: enter Comey with a heart of an avid boy scout, and a notebook for jotting down descriptions enviable of rookie coppers on the beat, ready to tackle either HRC's emails or tread on the toes of a huge ongoing investigation into the dotard.
I actually don’t comment on politics or religion (even when asked to do so) because I find both subjects tend to just start arguments, and as a non-confrontational person, it is not my forte.
Plus I don’t get involved in debates or deep conversations about things I know very little about, which politics falls right into.
But I was drawn into reading this book in order to read about some of the high profile cases Comey was involved in.
I actually found the book entertaining and quick.
My quick and simple overall: obviously I don’t comment on politics and whatnots but I will say this was a fascinating read.
That is, you didn’t say it, and by laughing you acknowledge the other, something else insecure people can’t do."As Attorney General, Alberto Gonzales is about to go into the NSC meeting and discuss the rules for "enhanced interrogation." He has asked Comey (the Deputy Attorney General) to brief him on what was currently going on with prisoner's interrogated by the CIA and on Comey's recommendations to halt these practices.
And, of course, in special cases, he may be made to believe he is drowning on the waterboard." Gonzales asked for Comey's notes and said that he would advocate the changes.
Senior-executives are shocked, shocked that lower-level employees may have been breaking the law."I really am appreciating the time Comey takes to discuss what people and events affected his view of life and work.
Despite the overblown commentary from newscasters and the president's outrage, the fact is that James Comey's book has only 277 pages of which the first 210 (76%) do not deal with Donald Trump.
However, despite arguing that it was all for the sake of the integrity of the FBI, he then goes on to mention that, had Loretta Lynch and/or Sally Yates ordered him not to reveal that damaging information, that would have been, "an order I would have followed." (Page 197) So much for "leadership" and "integrity." With that sentence, in my opinion, he threw away his entire argument.
Of the remaining 67 pages, other than the few salacious remarks that have already been over-reported, you have heard it all before, in earlier news reports and in Comey's testimony before Congress.
First off, five stars for this excellently written book. It was one of those memoirs that I started reading and did not stop until the very last word.  Dishonest leaders have the same ability to shape a culture, by showing their people dishonesty, corruption, and deception. A commitment to integrity and a higher loyalty to truth are what separate the ethical leader from those who just happen to occupy leadership roles. We cannot ignore the difference.I spent a lot of time thinking about the titl
delivers a fascinating insight into the work of the FBI and the role it plays in defending democracy as well as the rule of law, and the people of America.
What I wish would happen is that people will read the book for what it is, namely a means to stimulate debate about democracy, safety, security and the pressure from all politicians to sidestep the law for their own purposes.
(my opinion)Comey warns Americans about what is happening to this country, and once again, does not blame Trump alone.
(Spoiler alert: the case is made that Trump is a TERRIBLE leader.)This is a fast read and I finished it in a day.
I would recommend it to those who want to read the firsthand details of the Trump and Comey drama, and also those who like books on leadership.Favorite Quotes"Ethical leaders do not run from criticism, especially self-criticism, and they don’t hide from uncomfortable questions.
Those leaders who never think they are wrong, who never question their judgments or perspectives, are a danger to the organizations and people they lead.
That is true wealth."
I'll review later. I can't help liking Comey, but I also liked (the person) Neville Chamberlain. Both men allowed virtue to become a vice, however, and ended up as slightly absurd Greek characters in the tragedies of their day.
Sociedade — Um Jardim Da Nossa LavraHitlerEstalineSalazarFrancoMussolini .......São apenas alguns itens do rol de Ditadores que passaram pela nossa História!Todos eles imagens de líderes indesejáveis que convém ter presentes na hora do voto.
São ícones malévolos que já não constam entre nós, mas a violência que propagaram persistiu, canalizada para outros alvos.O assédio, o bullying, a violência doméstica, o racismo...
são venenos sociais para os quais urge encontrar antídotos, e é nesse contexto que podemos inserir este livro — ao incitar à recuperação dos valores morais, bem como à escolha de chefias que lhes sejam fiéis, advoga um projeto de construção social que nos envolve a todos.Afinal tudo se resume naquela célebre frase do Cândido de Voltaire:“É Preciso Cultivar o Nosso Jardim”James Comey incita-nos a fazê-lo!!!
This was definitely an interesting read.
During the George W Bush administration after 9/11 he was one of the attorneys that refused to reauthorize certain surveillance techniques and torturing since the government was on shaky legal ground.Comey was the director of the FBI during the Hillary Clinton email investigation, and details his reasoning for making statements about it so close to the 2016 election.
Trump did not seem to grasp the idea that Justice, including the FBI, works independently from the President.The title of the book refers to a higher loyalty--to do what is best for the country and to rise above partisanship.
Comey is optimistic that there will be a swing back from the present situation as people get fired up and demand a higher loyalty and ethical leadership.
Someone [name redacted for reaѕons of privacy] posted a couple of statements on Twitter the other day about the author of this here book. Since the book will be published three days from now, I assume, said individual received a pre-release or something that enabled him to express what seems like a sound appraisal. I think this is precisely what we need right now: Nuanced, well-formed, and factual assessments by intelligent and far-sighted individuals. I only hope James Comey responds in a similar way and does not stoop to a level that makes intellectual confrontation impossible.
Be Fearless: Read this BookI try to think of other nonfiction books deserving of five stars.
I can think of a number of scholarly histories: David Cecil's two-volume biography of Lord Melbourne, anything written by Winston Churchill.
To read Comey's narrative is to understand why he made the disastrous pronouncements about the Hillary emails.
Were I teaching Kant's third critique, I would require Comey's book in the syllabus.
This knowledge is at present insufficiently implemented and decisively, perilously ignored.Read this book; be fearless.
