https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/562253.The_Bane_of_the_Black_Sword
[7/10]Michael Whelan is as usual amazing when it comes to cover art The Bane of the Black Sword  is the fifth out of six original installments in the saga of Elric, the albino sorcerer who acts like an agent of Chaos and wields a terrible, soul-eating magical sword.
Elric, at least in the beginning of his epic quest, is unique among the usual brawny Conan clones or nimble rogues that populate sword & sorcery worlds by being physically impaired, requirring either drugs, magic or the tainted power of his doom sword in order to function as a fighter.
This slim fifth volume of the Elric saga contains four separate novellas, the first three starring o
Definitely the pinnacle of Sword and Sworcery.
Elric, the mage of legend, is a transformed warrior descending from lofty ideals into the realm of chaos and back again, casting off his allegiance to the goddess of chaos itself to battle...
:)I can say this is less strange and less idealistic and mysterious and archetypal than the previous volumes, focusing more on the quest and the battle and retaining a core of his idealism, as corrupted as that has become.
Mister anti-hero Elric.
:)It isn't so challenging anymore.
It IS pretty wonderful, however.
Epic, even, for being so short.
There is an unusual tonal conflict central to almost all of the Elric series between the complex, metaphysical, magical world and the rather straightforward, formulaic characters.
Yet, I am reluctant to entirely condemn it, even then, since it is really no more repetitive than the fantasy hero who fights his way out of everything, or who calls upon some inner magical strength to inevitably overcome.In addition, there is something mythic in the formulaic way that Moorcock constructs his stories and characters.
The 5th and penultimate in the Elric series, like the previous books it's divided into 3 short stories.
Then we have an Epilogue To Rescue Tanelorn, which is a short story, not about Elric, but about one of his previous companions Rackhir the Red Archer, who lives now in the eternal city of Tanelorn.
Tanelorn is about to come under attack by forces of Chaos, and so Rackhir goes in search of the Grey Lords, who server neither Law nor Chaos, but may be willing to aid Tanelorn.These Elric novels are always so hard to review, because so much happens in such a short space of time.
Moorcock sets the last pieces of the puzzle into place (and here, we get a chance to see how everything that has come before is building to the climactic novel, Stormbringer), introducing us to Zarozinia, the love of Elric's life (and most of his motivation for continuing on the path upon which he was set in The Vanishing Tower).
This would not be unprecedented; a story with Elric's friend Rackhir as its main character is included as an epilogue to one of the books, for example.There is one other annoying thing about the series I haven't yet touched on.
The fifth Elric book contains four interconnecting stories.
It starts right where the previous book left: with a confrontation between the albino and his old enemy.
Elric finally gets to live a quiet life - for a while.
No Eternal Champion ever enjoys his life for long.
The book is notable for its epilog.
The city of piece sure gets into trouble way too often.
The albino only gets mentioned once, something like "Elric is too busy at the moment to help defending Tanelorn".
All in all, this is a solid book which paves way to the conclusion of the Elric's story.
Back to ass-kicking Elric with Hellsword in hand: "The Eastern warriors spread out in a half circle as they rode down on the companions, yelling wild war-shouts.
Elric reared his mount to a savage standstill and met the first rider with Stormbringer's point full in the man's throat.
There was a stink like brimstone as it pierced flesh and the warrior drew a ghastly choking breath as he died, his eyes staring out in full realization of his terrible fate - that Stormbringer drank souls as well as blood." - Michael Moorcock, The Bane of the Black Sword.
Arc I: Elric seeks the help of a few remaining fellow Melniboneans led by his old friend and cousin Dyvim Tvar.
it's interesting that even though Elric says that it is in the Melnibonean nature to pursue self-interest and give no regard to petty human feelings such as grudge when it is in the way of some form of profit or pleasure, Dyvim Tvar acts in a way that refutes Elric's statement; he perceives his death, but he follows Elric.
he decides not to retaliate the misery Elric brought upon Melnibone and her people so he may be driven by something other than pure self-interest.Melniboneans are not entirely human, that has been said in the books.
If not:3) Elric calls upon an angry god to resolve the problem: return to number one.
If not:4) Elric is rendered unconscious but will wake up with sword neglectfully placed by the enemy very nearby: return to number one...I have decided to read only the first six books, as opposed to the cagillion out there.
This whole Elric saga is starting to take its toll.
In one paragraph, a blind character 'gropes' his way down the corridor of a castle.
Later that same paragraph, the guy is running full tilt, because the character, Moorcock writes, knows every hall like the back of his hand.
l'on se perd dans cet univers et je ne m'en lasse pas
Generally the writing is still brisk with more action and dialogue than description or character development.The middle episode, seemingly inspired by a poem from Moorcock's illustrator friend James Cawthorn, is the best bit here and the one pictured on the cover of the DAW Paperback.At the end is a short Tanelorn episode with no Elric but featuring old pal Rackhir the Red Archer and lots of parallel worlds, very "Doctor Strange." I wonder what that was about.
La maledizione dei salami in testa Dispersivo sotto molti aspetti, worldbuiding in particolare; raffazzonatissimi i personaggi coinvolti nei tre racconti di cui consta il volumetto.Moorcock è tremendamente invecchiato e il solo interesse lo si può ricavare nelle influenze sulle opere successive nonché il simbolismo di alcune idee che mantengono intatte il loro fascino.
Not as enjoyable as the previous books in the series.
While reading Bane Of The Black Sword and looking at the cover of this edition, I'm reminded of how much Moorcock has influenced and been involved in music.
I'm sure there are many, many more.Bane Of The Black Sword seems to have been written earlier in Moorcock's career.
I thought "To Rescue Tanelorn" was kind of a drag, as Elric doesn't appear in the story and it's not that thrilling, all things considered.
A lot is more or less wrapped up in this volume, setting the stage for the final chapters in Elric's doomed existence.
This particular story was one of my favorites, where Elric teams up with his old friend the Dragon-Keeper from Melnibone and his band of surviving warriors - together they trick their way into an impregnable fortress and bring some justice to the evil Sorceror.The second story was a real game changer - Elric rescues a princess from a jungle of horrors, but this time he actually sticks around and seems to fall in love with this princess.
Every time I finish one of the books in this series I think, I'll read something else before the next one...but end up slavering for another one of these cookies instead.
Though the writing in these books lacks polish—a red pen in the hands of an editor these days might leave it looking like one of the gory slaughterfests the author so graphically describes—I'm not that concerned.Elric is the ultimate tortured soul.
Here Elric finds peace at last, but of course I don't trust that.
What keeps me reading these books is the classic heroic tension between love and hate, beauty and desolation.

This one managed to encapsulate part of what makes Elric and all his people different than humans AND revealed a deeper truth about fair Tanelorn! Well done by the author.
Varios relatos en que Elric ya no es Rey ni bobadas, es un mercenario al que se le pide ayuda. Y ahora él hará lo que le venga en gana.
Since his target is inside a heavy guarded castle and he doesn’t summon a god to just kill everybody right away because this way the story would end too soon and Moorcock won’t have shit to sell, he decides to hire an army to help him.
I guess he liked how she is a horny slut who wanted to have sex with him the moment he heard his name.What is interesting here is that Elric found some special herbs in this forest that help him live without the need of his cursed sword killing people and drinking souls anymore.
And then there's the part where (view spoiler)[Elric falls in love with a women in a forest moments after meeting her, for reasons that are completely unclear - after successive books beforehand have insinuated that Elric is extremely unlikely to fall in love again - including one section a few books ago that explained that his race was naturally inclined away from love - meaning that most of his people would never experience it.
(hide spoiler)]In my view, this is the weakest book of the Elric saga so far.
Spoilers, so I'll write then at the end, tagged.The last story, Rackhir's was very good too, probably the best story in the book.Also, in all 4 stories, the worldbuilding is great, the scenarios are well made and full.The overall story of Elric is also very good.(view spoiler)[ Elric riding in the dragon with his true melnibonean blood awakened was really amazing  (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ The way I see it Elric keep handling himself in a plate to his enemies simple because he wants to die, or don't have anything between his ears  (hide spoiler)]
Hence I still give it 4 out of 5 stars, just don't expect anything different here.Elric must travel to different reals, an evil forest, an incompetent citadel, and many planes of existence, including the insufferably boring Plane of Law. He is sorcerer, which means the spells he casts are petitions to his patron, the elementals, and other gods to help him out, usually to smite his enemies.
He also carries a sword that steals souls and powers him to mow down many opponents at a time, so that also helps.
As with previous installments of Michael Moorcock's Elric Saga, the fantasy herein is simple and raw.
The book is 40 years old.And, I mean, it shows.
Characters and powers are introduced only when they suddenly become relevant.
For myself, I usually imagined how much better the story would be if anything was earned, but let's not forget that this book is 40 years old, and maybe the thing that earned it its place in the fantasy canon is the very thing I'm condemning it for here: the idea that it's okay for the heroes to round a bend and discover a ten-story three-headed gorilla-dragon.
Encore une fois trois courts histoires de l'albinos maudit.Certains aspects chronologiques sont apparemment peu respectés, mais ça n'est pas très grave.
L'essentiel étant évidement de voir Elric livrer combat contre son gré pour des causes qui lui sont indifférentes, et tenter toujours de fuir l'influence de Stormbringer qui toujours le rattrape.Je sais pas vous, mais moi, ces histoires courtes, intenses et passionnées me détendent terriblement : les gentils sont gentils, les méchants sont méchants, Elric tuera tout le monde et Stormbringer boira quelques âmes qu'Elric voulait épargner.
Je le sais dès le début, et du coup je profite encore mieux du voyage.
you could make 10 movies at least and whole video game franchises and MMPORGS based on the black company universe!!Goldmine of very orginial combinations of ass kicking fighting fantasy!other tips and leads:The Black Company (The Chronicles of the Black Company, #1)by Glen CookU 50x66Jackvanc3gmail.Com's reviewSep 11, 2016 · editit was amazingRead in January, 2004For those of you who are discovering awesome scifi not pushed by socialists, I salute you.Glen Cooks amazing The Silver Spike black company 3.5, was my intro, then I backfilled 1-3 after spike I think he had ghostwriter because it falls off bigtime.
A collection of short stories. Elric and Moonglum come up against Theleb Kaarna again.Elric finds a degree of peace after he gets married, but has to take up Stormbringer once again.Finishes with a Rackhir the Red Archer story as Tanelorn comes under threat from Chaos.The stories are well written and move along at a good pace. Elric seems less tortured than usual, so there's less of the philosophical discussions.
I almost wondered if Moorcock originally planned this as the end of the Elric saga, just the way he left Elric toward the end. Regardless, still a hell of a lot of fun, and interesting to see the author taking Elric in different directions.Two more books to go!
Me ha gustado bastante este libro.Esta vez Elric es un poco distinto al Elric del libro anterior, mucho mas agresivo, mucho mas de mi agrado. Se hecha en falta Arioch, aunque si ayuda a Elric no se materializa propiamente en el mismo plano.
