https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114520.A_Tale_of_Time_City
At Christmas and birthdays he'd send carefully selected hardcovers that were clearly serious books: children's Literature, with a cosmopolitan capital "L." Each year after A Tale of Time City brought another Diana Wynne Jones hardcover, until either I grew up, or he developed Alzheimer's at a startlingly young age -- I'm not sure which event happened first.Trying to describe the complex plot of this book is probably too tall an order considering my fragile and weak-brained, bereaved state.
As usual, Diana Wynne Jones' imagination runs rampant, giving us a fun adventure with lots of amazing ideas packed in. I want to know what a butter pie tastes like, more than anything, but all of it was interesting and had me trying to puzzle it all out.It wasn't surprising in any way, to me anyway, because it somehow seemed very typical of Diana Wynne Jones. But it was fun, and hooked me in well.Not my favourite of her books so far, but that would be difficult to decide anyway...
Above all, however, it is entertaining.This book precedes the Harry Potter series, but while reading it you really wonder if JK Rowling was perhaps a Diana Wynne Jones fan.
Beside that, there's other things - people walking through walls at train stations, for example, and certain types of characters.On to the "confusing" part however.
So many things are foreshadowed or hinted at, and nothing described ends up being unimportant.Add with that a dash of foul villains, a young and very strong female main protagonist, a bunch of compelling side characters - and you've got yourself a book that makes me ask for more.
I honestly don't know what my issue is with this book.
Nothing was explained in detail -- from the science and politics to the setting and items they used (I got so lost so many times.) The prose felt messy and jumbled (and not just because of the many misplaced commas and periods -- I don't know who's to blame for those, but they pulled me out several times.) There were definitely some interesting ideas in this book -- I loved the time ghosts -- but reading it was a slog.
Wonderful children's time travel book.
One of the things I like best about Diana Wynne Jones is how her children are children and adults are adults.
First, children are not adults.
(It has been a while so I don't remember an example from this book.) Second, adults are adults.
In too many YA books the adults are simply stupid.
Time City I felt did a great job of showing adults who were just as concerned about the time crisis as the kids, but because of factors like their age, values, and responsibilities had a different view of what was important and thereby wound up hindering the children rather than joining with them.
"When your surname is Smith, you need to make very sure that everyone knows just which Smith you are." At the beginning of WWII, Vivian Smith is on board an evacuee train when two boys decide to kidnap her right out of time. Jonathan and Sam are from Time City which exists outside of regular time and history. Time and the city itself have suffered from disturbances and the boys hope that the Time Lady can put things right again. Vivian soon finds that they thought her to be the Time Lady in dis
With nowhere else to go, Vivian goes along with Jonathan and Sam to try and find the real Time Lady, A Tale of Time City has a lot of great ideas but wasn't quite what I wanted it to be - this book had so many things going for and against it, that I feel rather conflicted.
So as a conclusion, A Tale of Time City has a brilliant main character in Vivian, has several unique ideas and is anything but boring.
All the other Diana Wynne Jones books I've read until now were the favorites of a pal who did me the great service of lending them so I could get hooked.
such as the kids who live in Time City but are fascinated by what it is like "in history" when they're quizzing the heroine about WWII and 1938 London.FINALI finished it but it wasn't an easy read.
This was a helluva convoluted plot and there were a lot of details about time changing and Time City and suchlike that I think could have been made a bit clearer.
Nonetheless it was entertaining enough that I finished it up.
Now I actually remember the year that WWII started--and if I learned nothing else from reading A Tale of Time City, this alone would make it SO WORTH IT.Also, this came highly recommended by some of my favorite authors, including Maggie Stiefvater.
As fabulous as that book is, though, Stiefvater acknowledged that she was inspired by Diana Wynne Jones' A Tale of Time City.
And with the unraveling of Time City, history is unraveling as well.
Yes, the ending is a bit confusing, but that pales in comparison to the sheer scintillating superiority of the rest of the book.
I love stories about time travel, and I absolutely adore Diana Wynne Jones’s writing, so I suppose I was pretty much fated to enjoy A Tale of Time City.
And I don’t just mean that in the sense of it’s being “great” or “amazing”–it’s full of all sorts of wonders that surprise the reader at every turn.
And, as is so typical with Jones’s books, the plot is intriguing from beginning to end.
I would give A Tale of Time City high recommendations, especially to those who love a good fantasy and to those who are intrigued by the idea of time itself–because it’s just fascinating, isn’t it?
Vivian Smith is discontentedly waiting to be picked up by her unknown cousin Marty when an older boy commands her to follow him.
Vivian has been kidnapped through time and space to Time City!
Her kidnappers, Sam and Jonathan, are positive that she's the Time Lady who is destroying temporal reality and Time City itself.
Vivian, of course, has no clue what they're talking about.
All three embark upon an adventure to find the four time locks, hidden throughout time and fiercely guarded.
Meant more for older children than young adults, but I sure enjoyed it anyway!
Can't believe it took me so long to get hold of this one!
I love that we keep seeing the children who are evacuated from London, and there's so much detail about what it's like to be one of them on a hot train carrying a gas mask and going to live with people you've never met.
DWJ was evacuated herself during the war, so this all rings incredibly true.Also, who but she could write a scene with three separate people named Vivian in one room and make it not only clear but exciting?And yes, as everyone always says about this book, butter-pies.
butter-pies.
This is my absolute favourite Diana Wynne Jones book, which is saying a lot because I adore DWJ. But this one always caught me and held me and has me rereading it regularly to this day (and I plan to continue doing so). I couldn't tell you precisely what makes this one beat out Archer's Goon or Howl's Moving Castle or Cart and Cwidder or A Sudden Wild Magic or... But it is my favourite. I highly recommend it for ANY age.
This is a young adult book and it's a fun book to read for any age. This book would be appropriate to readers as young as 10. This is a fun time travel story of kids being kids and wanting to help the grown ups, on their own and without permission of course.
DWJ’s books had a huge influence on my reading tastes and I still reread my favourites often and find they’ve held up incredibly well.Vivian Smith is a young evacuee leaving London at the beginning of WWII when, due to a case of mistaken identity, she is kidnapped out of time by Jonathan and Sam, two boys from “Time City.” Time City is a city positioned outside of time to make sure time runs as it should.
Except Time City is falling apart and finding the person Jonathan and Sam thought Vivian was may be the solution.This was the first time travel story I ever read, and time travel stories continue to be favourites of mine.
What's the trick with Diana Wynne Jones?
She was so prolific that quite a lot of her books necessarily fall below the highest standard, and several of them are quite formulaic - this is one - but I have now read at least 20 of her works and cannot say that I regret reading any, even those I 2-starred as "just ok".Perhaps I'm touched by the way she sets up her universes.
at 11:59 would perhaps be more exact, of course); no unnecessary romance; no character growth to speak of: the characters are too busy working out the things external to find time for reflection.But the charm so apparent in her best works is definitely lacking here.
A Tale of Time City was originally published in 1987 and reissued this year with an introduction by Ursula Le Guinn (alas, my copy is an old one) and I decided to read this one next because I am going through an I Love Time Travel phase.Time City is a place built on a patch of time and space and for all intents and purposes, outside history.
– and Jonathan, Sam and Vivian need to go back through time to stop those tampering with History.A Tale of Time City is an adventurous, fun time travel story.
Not to mention, the very realisation that nothing could possibly be built outside history, not even Time City.
Keine schier überperfekten, herausragenden Helden ohne Fehl und Tadel wie man sie so oft in YA findet, sondern einfach 8- bzw 12jährige für die alles nur ein großes Abenteuer ist und Süßigkeiten manchmal eben spannender sind als die Welt zu retten.
Und gerade für ein Buch, welches sich um Zeitreisen dreht, war mir die Geschichte zu stringent, zu chronologisch aufgebaut.
Ich hätte mir da mehr Sprünge und Überlappungen gewünscht, oder auch einfach nur greifbarere Konsequenzen aus den unerlaubten Zeitreisen von Jonathan, Vivian und co.Außerdem fühlte sich der Roman an einigen Stellen etwas überholt an.
Saying one of her books doesn't live up to its fellows still puts it above almost everything else out there.Some of my aloofness toward this book may come from my love/hate relationship with time travel stories.
(love=Connie Willis; hate=end of Prisoner of Azkaban) There was a lot in the underlying concept about time travel that reminded me of Willis so it definitely falls more toward that end of the spectrum.
I loved the way all three of the kids interacted.
DWJ's writer skills at work.) I always enjoy these sorts of stories where the kids have to band together to save the day because the adults are running around pretending nothing is too amiss.
I think I'm starting to see the pattern in Wynne Jone's books where the main character goes on a quest, meets lots of people who provide loads of information that only serves to confuse her/him, and only after we've run out of people to meet does the solution to the mystery present itself.Patterns notwithstanding, she tells a great story.
I'm currently on a quest to reread all the books, so I know I'm reading through them too fast and am sure I am missing things.
(hide spoiler)]This is a book as rich in detail as the butter-pies the child characters love to eat.
And I came away wishing, just wishing we had butter-pies in my world so I could enjoy one.
I enjoyed this book much more when I read it 10 years or so ago.
It does start off nicely with 3 children time traveling, trying to save Time City, and eating butter pies.
But by the end I didn't care so much about who was trying to steal the time caskets and whether or not the kids would save Time City.
Everything sort of frantically piled up at the end with confusing action scenes that I had to make myself keep reading.
The only time travel book that has survived a re-read from me is Replay.
WWII evacuee Vivian Smith is shocked when she is unceremoniously kidnapped from a railway station by two boys and taken to Time City.
There she learns that although the city was built in order to keep history moving along as it should, something seems to be going wrong, and the boys, Jonathan and Sam, have mistaken her for the mysterious Time Lady, who they think can fix the problems.
I don't think I'd call A Tale of Time City one of my favorite Jones books, but it's fun.
I've often heard of Jones and was not aware that i had even read any of her books.
I'd always planned on reading one though.
Anyway, I just came across this book and recognized the name and then found this, the exact same edition i had as a child.
I don't remember much about the story but i do remember i loved it at the time.
So, i guess i have read one of her books and now i'm intrigued to revisit her writing.
So sad, I just went to see her author's page and saw that she passed away just a few days ago.
A fascinating sci-fi novel in which a young girl is mistakenly abducted as she is being evacuated into the country in England at the beginning of World War II. She is kidnapped by two young men who believe that she is an ageless woman responsible for the collapse of Time City, a city anchored apart from history and filled with only the brightest intellectuals of all ages. Be introduced to intriguing ideas like time locks, time ghosts and the strange mythology of the City as the children try to keep it from crumbling to pieces.
This was remarkably wonderful. I inhaled it in several days; the pace is crackling and compelling. There are some flaws - the ending is rushed, and there are leaps of logic you just have to ignore - but despite these it was original and fascinating, and ridiculous in all the best ways. I would rather like a butter-pie now, too.Note: the kindle edition was full of typos - distracting and annoying. I would not recommend that version.
Most of Jones' books have delighted me. This one was just "eh". maybe because I was sick, maybe because the cover was so bloody hideous and eye-damaging and stomach-churning. Hard to say, really. The book is better than this cover, but then, so are books I would never read because I loathe the idea behind them.Library copy.
This was a delightful romp through "history," almost as fun as the Chrestomanci books, but I drop a star because the resolution at the end seemed hasty and they were a bit blase about V.S. maybe never going home or seeing her parents again...it was weird.
This was the first DWJ book I ever read -- back in 5th grade? -- and it has been a favorite/comfort read ever since and has made me seriously consider how to fabricate my own goluptuous butter-pies.I've lost track of how many times I've re-read it.
I first read this when I was an exchange student in New Zealand. Since then I've read it several times.I haven't read it recently so I can only say that as a 17 year old I really liked this book.
I picked up "Time City" from the local used book store since I've been on a Diana Wynne Jones kick lately.
A fantastical city, anchored outside of time and filled with fascinating characters?
THOSE stuck in my head for some 25 years or more!
Now, perhaps the reason I didn't remember much of the rest (except for a vague notion of an annoying boy who turned out to be Sam) is because the plot is wildly convoluted, unlikely, and not terribly comprehensible.
But like most of Jones' books, the likelihood of the plot is distinctly secondary to the well-drawn and reasonably compelling pre-teen characters.
I feel like certain details are intriguing, and the idea of Time City is great, but she didn't quite pull everything together clearly.
It was around Chapter 12 where I realized that if we didn't have Elio delivering a straightforward rehashing of the details, I wouldn't have known exactly where we were, either, making him feel more like a plot device at times than a character.
I ended up speeding through the last 100 pages just to find out what happened.So, while I can't say this was a terrible read, I can't say I enjoyed it as much as her other work.
