https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1713912.Cross_Country
I was left unsure on the Patterson/ Cross dynamic after Kill Alex Cross but the fact I read this thoroughly in 24 hours in front of the other 400 books I have to read must say something for how much I have enjoyed how these novels are created and presented.Recently, in the story - the superstar Alex Cross has been working as a psychologist more so than as an intense deductive detective on the homicide team.
Cross books I have read, relationships with children take the forefront of the presentation on the novel.
80% of the book follows Alex in a first person perspective.
You know with both that there won't be any grand expectations in the experience you will gain with both, yet somehow there is an unseen force that compels one in either reading another Patterson novel or eating something from Mickey D's.
After you finish reading Patterson's book (and eating at Mickey D's), you know the memory of the experience won't last long and somehow you feel a little...dirty and unclean by partaking in this misadventure.
In other words, empty plot/thriller/solution and empty calories are bad things but I know that there is something about both that make me realize that I will probably read another book by Patterson and eat another value meal from McDonald's.
For a book with so much going on and a plot that takes you to Africa, it was a bit dull. At times I was really into it but at others I was bored. Hate to say it but so far it was the Alex Cross books I like the least so far. Will continue the series for sure though. My quick and simple overall: sounded awesome in the description but I was bored during some of the book. An okay installment to the series.
I've always liked the Alex Cross books, but this one was a dud. Alex takes it upon himself to follow a murderer he's after to Africa. While in Africa, he gets beaten up, jailed & threatened countless times. It seemed to me that the plot was a way for Patterson to let us all know about the horrible violence & living conditions in Africa. I thought Alex acted so out of character. I think I just finished reading it for old times sake.
Cross Country, the 14th Alex Cross novel, asks readers to go well beyond normal suspension and travels very far into unrealistic territory.Alex Cross, devoted family man who often feels guilty for abandoning his children for a day or two, travels to Africa on a case.
There were many of the twists Patterson is known for, but few were unforeseen.Ultimately, people were dying because of Alex's involvement and for what?
Cross Country does nothing for the series and my I feel my long-time love for James Patterson waning in the aftermath of this book.
Just wrong on so many levels." The only reason I can think of that MIGHT have inspired James Patterson to write this awful book is that he might recently have become aware of the plight of millions of people in various African countries and thought he could use his popular character, Alex Cross, to shed light on a truly appalling situation.However, that said, it was a terrible book with a totally unbelievable plot.For one thing, what city cop goes hunting a killer in a foreign country...and if he finds him, what is he going to do with him?
Patterson has delivered us wolf, weasel, and now the tiger.
Nope, this guy is murdering lots and lots of people.
He also murdered Ellie, who was Alex's friend and first real love.
But this book is no vacation for Alex.
I don't know if it's just me but Alex came off super dumb in this book or maybe dumber than he has acted in the other books??!
And since I came into this series looking for the murders - this book definitely delivered gruesome ones.
I can't wait to dive into the next book guys!
I am a HUGE fan of James Patterson's Alex Cross series.
It was a quick read with the usual Patterson short chapters But, the woven storyline was completely missing.
Some stand out issues for me:(1) The murders were too gruesome and violent - completely out of character for Patterson's writing style.
(2) We saw a completely different side of the main chacter, Alex Cross.
His decisions constantly put those around him in harms way.
His decision to fly off to Africa to pursue a killer in a foreign country with absolutely no government assistance seemed downright ridiculous.
(3) The entire plot of the book of completely unbelievable.
Not bad for a good start, as this is my first James Patterson novel, and it was really a good read too.
Since these are the events of a fictional world, everything could be forgiven.And these characters are rather similar to that of the Michael Connelly's 'City of bones' (as both the detectives lost their spouses earlier and finds a new love during this case and no more spoilers).
And after reading this book, I came to know about the cruel scenarios, the massacre, the genocides (it remained me of the Shoah, portrayed in the Academy award winning movie "Schindler's list") events in Africa (if this book is true about that), and am curious to find more about these happenings, though not like the 'Ellie Randall Cox' from this book.
The part of the book that takes place in Africa was hard to read because of the violence and atrocities happening over there.
I can't quite articulate what bothered me about this book.
The plot seemed to be full of violence just for the sake of action; there wasn't as much "real detecting" and psychological probing as Alex is known for (the things I like).
Personally, I would have left Africa after the first prison incident.
I know Dr. Cross is bigger than life, but I had trouble believing that he would stay after so many, many, many bad incidents.
The books with Alex Cross are the best of James Patterson's work. Recently I've been disappointed in a lot of the collaborative efforts where Patterson authors books with a second author. I read that a lot of these are just "ghost" books - Patterson provides the outlines and the other authors write most of the novels, and it definitely shows. Stick with the books that don't have a second author's name on them if you want to read the best that Patterson has to offer.
1 1/2 Stars. What. The. Hell.If ever there was a book that had too much going on, situations that were over the top, and not enough believablity--it would be this one. Cross and Patterson really showed their weaknesses in this read and the ending tried to compensate for it.Kyle Craig. Humph. He just does not give up.I hate that such an important subject was wasted in a sub-par read.Maybe I'll take a break before the next one~
James Patterson knows how to tell a story.
This is never more evident,than in this installment of his Alex Cross series.Chapters are kept short, one his Patterson's trademarks, and the pace is fast, at times break-neck.
Alex is truly out of his comfort zone, as he takes his current murder investigation to Nigeria.
And there is a very human aspect to this story as Alex and a Nigerian journalist travel to the refugee camps in Darfur.
He chronicles the squalid and hopeless conditions in those camps.
I had taken a break from Patterson's books.
Time to dive back in.
I have to admit, I don't normally read thrillers or mysteries and this is my first Patterson book, but honestly, I don't think it lives up to the hype.
Granted, I read the book in two days, but not because the storyline was particularly compelling.
The storyline was mildly interesting, but then got rather convoluted and difficult to follow.
I didn't get a sense of the characters either and really didn't care about them, which made reading difficult.
Now, if I had read the rest of the series, it might have been better, but I didn't and I was told that each book stands on its own.
OK, allow me to begin by confessing that I am a devout James Patterson fan and that the Alex Cross storyline is my favorite.
In fact, it was one of my favorite Alex Cross books.
This riveting story shows the reader a side - a more vulnerable side - of Alex Cross then one is accustomed.
It also reminds the reader that the horror of the crimes battled in DC by Dr. Cross pale in comparison to the atrocities committed in Darfur depicted in spellbinding detail by James Patterson.
I want another crime book - like Cormoran Strike Series / Sherlock - and it's not the one.. there is too much action, no big twist. just not the book for me. And i Alex Cross didn't live the hype.
He did it with the Maximum Ride books, and he's done it with the last Alex Cross book.
I wouldn't have minded all of the mindless violence that Cross witnesses in Africa, except that all the things I like about Alex Cross were missing.
Everytime he would start being a detective, he was interupted by mindless violence.
At the end of the book, the big reveal of the biggest man behind the crimes, we didn't get to see amy of the work behind that discovery.
I think that's what I saiad about the last Alex Cross book, too.
I normally love anything that James Patterson writes...
for his style, fast-pace-approach, and character development.
This book just had me feeling "off" the whole way through it.
The things I like about this author were there - it was a well-written book - but I don't like feeling anxious and depressed when I'm reading, and I felt like that a lot with this one (even when I wasn't reading, just thinking about it).
For those of you who don't know, this book follows Detective Cross to Africa, where he sees the horrors we only hear about in the news (Darfur, Refugee Camps, etc.)...
One of the better books in the series that I've read in awhile. Actually, I listened to it on audio, and Patterson really uses audio to his advantage here. There's gunfire, explosions, different readers interacting, and even music that signals when something sinister is about to occur.All in all, a fun book that I would recommend on audio for fans of the series.
This is my first (and possibly last) Alex Cross book, and if he acts this dumb for most of the series, then I don’t understand why this series is so popular.I mean, this “detective” hops on a plane to go to Africa to chase a killer...and does no research about Africa, where the well-known dangerous hot spots are, how to get around on a practical daily level, or how to deal with the locals; does nothing to disguise the fact that he’s a white guy, despite knowing that racism and anti-American sentiments are rampant; makes the trip by himself with only himself as backup...and yet he’s surprised every time he gets kidnapped, beaten up, and tortured.
To give due credit to James Patterson, he has surely created a well knit web, that moves at a fast pace, engulfing one and all in its spidery mesh. Once begun, I could hardly put down the novel for even a second. I rushed through 397 pages, swallowing the ruthless amputations and brutal killings, desperately trying to solve the mysteryRead more at http://scribblesofsoul.com/cross-coun...
Terrific storyline, but not for the faint-hearted. A little less violence would have made it more believable.
It was Patterson of old, quick read, good story. Usually give his books a 4 because they are usually cookie cutter but this book had meat to it. Travelling around the work it gives you a glimpse whether true or not what other parts of the world are like.
Cross Country is another typical Cross novel with a different location backdrop that Alex Cross finds himself in as he goes on a solo hunt to bring down one of his most physically tough foes called Tiger.
Cross Country lacks the psychological intrigues which are a common treat in Patterson's previous works, but more or less makes up for it with the fast moving action and the drama that unfolds at each step.
James Patterson has tried to bring across the humanitarian issues being witnessed in certain parts of Africa, violent and disturbing as they are.
I do believe that it's only fair to comment on the story's exaggeration if you have been to a major North African country like Nigeria, especially the highly populous and poverty-stricken city of Lagos, and to the camps at Darfur.
Personally as a South African, I have only been to the 2 cities of Lagos and Abuja in Nigeria (two such contrasting cities I have never seen in any other country), and have not visited South Darfur or Sierra Leone.
Very fast-paced, violent and war-zone type action that does border on having the reader in outright disbelief, I still would recommend it to those with a strong stomach.
I haven't read James Patterson in a long time and after this book, I am wondering if I will pick him up again.
Did I stay up too late reading this book and fly through it to find out what would happen next?
Who in their right mind would run around Africa for so long and leave their family behind when killings were still happening in DC?
I have to agree with the other Patterson critics that this once-great writer has lost his way in his effort to pump out as many books as possible.That said, if you are looking for a mindless page-turner and you don't mind a lot of gore (this book gets pretty bad), you might enjoy Cross Country.
This was definitely not a typical Alex Cross story.
This one takes Cross to Africa in search of the killers of an old college sweetheart (who had been working on an expose of the goings on in Nigeria) and her family.
While in Africa, Cross sees first hand some of the outrages being perpetrated on the African people in Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and the Sudan including the refugee camps in Darfur.
While these parts of the novel are eye-opening, I'm not sure an Alex Cross novel is the best forum to expound on the political turmoil in Africa.
The whole premise of Cross running off to Africa to seek the killers is a little preposterous.
I cannot recall how many wives and girlfriends have been murdered in his quest to catch the many serial killers who have crossed (excuse the pun) his path.
If you thought Blood Diamond was harrowing, do not read this.
Alex Cross is after ’Tiger’, a killer who leads a band of children killing children.
Cross traverses the USA, and Africa, in his quest to stop these monstrous murders.
I sped through this book, vacillating between wanting to fling it across the room and wanting to turn every page.
It is also as well written as any of Patterson’s books.

This book was worthwhile in the sense that it continued the Alex Cross saga, but other than that, it wasn't very satisfying. More far-fetched than usual, and yet the books have started becoming monotonous. I'm ready to move on to other series.
