https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23856.The_Sisters
The Sisters The saga of the Mitford Family What an eccentric and yet fascinating family the Mitford's were.I had a copy of this book in paperback on my bookshelf for quite a time and decided to also purchase it as an audio so as I could listen as well as read.
The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family"  tells the amazing story of the Mitford sisters, six beautiful and talented aristocratic young women who came of age before the Second World War and made quite a name for themselves( not always a good one) around the World.
Of course this is full of wonderful information about fascinating people -- but Lovell bends over backwards to vindicate Diana for her fascism and palling around with Nazis, while pilloring Jessica for every minor dido or appearance of hypocrisy (which, as an aristo communist, there was plenty of material).
The only other explanation is that Lovell herself thinks bolshieness is beyond the pale while fascism isn't really so bad if you don't actually go around personally murdering Jews, and I would hate to think that's the case.Still, a great resource for learning about the Mitfords, who were often enchanting, often appalling, but never dull.
When I started the audiobook I was forewarned that the narration was bad, but I wanted to read this book so I figured I could manage.
until his death in the War), Diana (the beauty, married first into the Guinness family and then to the love of her life, beloved Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Fascist Party, hated in Britain and imprisoned for three and a half years), Unity (the girl who loved to shock, rats and snakes were so fun to take to a ball, and renown for her affair with Hitler), Jessica (or Decca, as he is nicknamed, the rebel communist who eloped with Churchill’s nephew, emigrated to the States and stood out as a rebel during the McCarthy Era and author too) and finally Deborah (Duchess of Devonshire, the youngest and an author too).
A cracking read in parts, hence why I finished the thing, but seriously marred by obsequious apologia for the Fascist sympathies of most of the family and their peers -- all "how could they have known" and "yes, she laughed and laughed when she heard about Nazi atrocities, but she was also very charming" and "what else was she expecting than for the death of her infant daughter to be mocked, after all, her communist sympathies were very uncouth".
I honestly do not care and I find it irritating even when the subject is one I have sympathy for.
Personally, I found a certain poetic justice in the fact that the Duke of Devonshire popped his clogs just a week before the five year period necessary between gifting his estate to his oldest son and his own demise had elapsed, thus leaving Andrew and Debo, the new Duke and Duchess, with a whopping inheritance tax debt.
She was well aware that the clumsiness came from drink having been taken, and that a wrist fracture the previous year had been for the same reason.
What fifty year old would still want to be known as Dinky?
Shortly after Britain declared war on Germany Unity unsuccessfully tried to kill herself, and Decca ran away to help the Republican cause in Spain during the Spanish Civil War. These events, along with Nancy's success as a writer, are what make this book so fascinating for anyone interested in this era.
This is all worth reading but of less interest than the extraordinary events detailed in the 1930s and 1940s.All told though, a very interesting biography, with plenty of conflict (both familial and global) to keep the story moving forward.
It's so unreal, you almost think it was fiction; a writer couldn't come up with this.The Mitford Sisters -- from oldest Nancy, renowned author, to youngest Deborah, Duchess of Devonshire, who married the next in line who became Duke upon the death of his brother, who was himself married to Kathleen "Kick" Kennedy.
(Yes, related to and friends with the Kennedys.) Next youngest is Decca, who with first husband ran off to Spain fighting with the Communist brigade against Franco and then emigrating to America where she remarried (after being widowed quite young.) Also related to Churchill on their mother's side, which makes it all the more interesting that daughters 3 and 4, Diana and Unity were ardent Fascists during the war.
The subjects of the biography were certainly very interesting and it would have been really nice to read a book that is less defensive of anything Diana and Oswald Mosley did, and less dismissive of their racism. I also can't understand why the author seemed so hostile towards Jessica.
The Mitfords, an upper class English family with a long history, have a crazy father, and a mother who seems to have lost control.
One of the great things about this book for me is that it opened my eyes to a whole Fascistic side of England that I was completely unaware of.
We learn all about Oswald Mosely, founder of the Black Shirts, who marries one of the Mitfords.
The most moving part of the book is when Mrs. Mosely goes to jail.
A great look at a seldom-discussed part of English history.
The Mitford sisters -- split between love affairs with fascists, with Hitler, with the Communist party, and with the written word (plus two spare sisters mainly concerned with home and garden, albeit on a rather grand scale) -- make for a fascinating read and Mary Lovell manages it all quite nicely with plenty of juicy details of Unity's close personal friendship with Hitler and subsequent suicide attempt when England declared war on Germany; Diana's three-year war-time internment along with her fascist husband; Jessica's defection from the whole lot of them, to California, where she established herself as a figure in far-left circles(she was quarry in the McCarthy witch-hunts) and as a writer of journalistic investigation; and Nancy's opportunistic chronicling of all of it for her own authorial profit.

so, the author was basically an apologist for diana mosley, which bugged.
it seems diana was quite a useful source for the book, and possibly her charm worked on lovell.
& yes, communism was bad mmkay, but as the author points out herself, jessica was much more prepared to acknowledge its evils than diana ever was those of the nazis.
lovell's also a little defensive about the father of the sisters, even though events show him to be a bit of a shit.she also totally dismissed the possibility that pamela was in a lesbian relationship, even though jessica mitford thought this was the case.
The author insists that this book is not political, and yet Decca the Communist catches a lot of shit for her Communist Opinions.
Meanwhile, the author looks down at us from her high horse, refusing to pass judgement on the Nazi Sisters, because this book is about family, and love and not Fascism can't you see!!
She insists, again, that it is not in her place to pass moral judgements on the dizzying spectrum of the Sisters' political opinions - but methinks the lady doth love the Nazi Sister too much.
I was amazed while reading this book that I'd never heard of this family before- yet their lives unfolded almost as a mirror to reflect what was happening/important in history at that time- politically and culturally (ie- WWII, Nazism, Facism, Communism, Kennedys, etc.) I really enjoyed this book and thought it was very detailed and well-written.
As I said, the author does a good job detailing their lives, but I don't think it's even possible to come to an understanding how each sister came to have such polar opposite beliefs and lives.
Of the girls, Nancy (1904-1973) became prominent as a novelist; Pamela (1907-1994) became the wife of millionaire physicist Derek Jackson; Diana (1910-2003) became the wife of Sir Oswald Mosley, head of the British fascist movement; Unity Valkyrie (1914-1948) became one of Adolf Hitler's closest friends; Jessica (1917-1996) became a communist and prominent writer and teacher; and Deborah (1920- ) became duchess of Devonshire.
Jessica alone broke with her family and her class.What makes this biography different than most is that its emphasis is on the family and their relations with one another, not on their social background or on the period in which they lived.
The author is a coward and an apologist. The only sister she takes a disapproving tone about is Jessica, the only decent one.I plowed through the book somehow, hoping to read that Unity and Diana suffered.It made me sick to read about that Hitler loving Unity being cruel to an elderly Jewish woman trying to find a train station in Germany. Perhaps when Unity was disabled (her own doing)and trying to use the train, someone was horrid to her....
Lovell certainly comes across as more of a starstruck fangirl than an unbiased and dispassionate biographer.This biography is far more defensive than it is informative and hardly ever objective.
Lovell goes to great lengths to vindicate Diana the unrepentant Fascist (How was she to know?) - but interestingly does not make similar efforts with Unity; just one example of disparity within the biography.
There are healthy doses of exposition where Lovell assures the reader that the sisters were ‘excellent company’ and had ‘vibrant personalities’, and yet all that was ever truly credited to them was their political and aristocratic connections, the odd radical and their searing sex appeal ethereal beauty.
Each sister is depicted in all their layers: Nancy, the acerbic writer who poked fun at her class, yet embraced its snobbery; Pam, the "rural one" who was the maternal center of the sisters; Diana, the beauty who left her first husband for Oswald Moseley and was an unrepentant fascist; Unity, the one so besotted by Hitler that she attempted suicide after hearing that England and Germany had declared war; Decca, the one who ran away from home to become a communist and became an immigrant writer in America; and Deborah, the one who became a Duchess and held the family together through their many tiffs.[return][return]Each sister is handled fairly, which is difficult concerning some of their troubling politics.
The Sisters is a group biography of the famous Mitford sisters.
Occasionally Lovell stumbles in weaving the threads of the six lives together to form a logical and coherent progression, but that would be difficult with any group biography and particularly with one of such widely varying people as this.
Well-written and thoroughly researched, this is a valuable addition to the Mitford canon.
"Everyone knows that killing is wrong, but those little decisions you make when no one is looking--those are the real tests."There was an abundance of willful ignorance and laziness in Europe at that time.
I hope those mistakes are never repeated.I'm not quite sure why a book about six sisters who had a penchant for dictators, communist activists and titled people made me think about this so much, but I think it was a fresh way way for me to learn about the war through the eyes of women who were sitting in on influential dinners, tea parties, the season, etc.
According to her, they can be described as follows: - Nancy, pathetically unlucky in love; - Pam, who?; - Unity, an embarrassment to her family; - Jessica, an embarrassment to her country (short of a traitor); - Deborah, goody two shoes, slightly boring, and- superstar Diana, the beautiful fascist.Nancy the eldest born in 1904, was a rather famous writer, who ended up her life in Paris where she moved for love, to follow an unreliable French man.Pam lead un unremarkable country life in England.
A well researched and well written biography of the six fascinating Mitford sisters, spanning not only their individual lives but also one of the most eventful periods in European history, from the 20s to the 60s and beyond.Why only three stars?
I feel the author had a hard time cramming in all that happened to the six women during their lifetime, without the opportunity for looking deeper into their characters.
I think people with an interest in history will enjoy this more than those looking for an in-depth look at the inner workings of the Mitfords.
An eccentric, aristocratic English family (father was in the House of Lords) with six daughters who grew up to be so different from each other.
She was the most rebellious of all and saved money from an early age in her "running away fund", finally eloping at 18 to fight with the communists in the Spanish Civil War. Then to the US where she remarried after being left a young widow, moved to California and became famous as a journalist and author of "The American Way of Death".
The Mitford girls are utterly fascinating, and anyone who's even a little bit interested in the history of ideas in 20th century Europe, or the English aristocracy between the wars, will probably find something to like in this book: Lovell writes their story well.
Nancy Mitford's Pursuit of Love and Love in Cold Climate are novels, they're fiction.
It's understandable for family members to recognize fictionalized versions of themselves, and consider the portrait distored.
Second, Lovell's admiration of the family matriarch Sydney gets a bit much after a while.Still, the good far outweighs the bad in this case.
It's interesting how reality is often far from realistic.
This is how these things happen in my world: when I read Kendall Haley's book,  The Day I Became an Autodidact  I became intrigued by her favorite author, Nancy Mitford. This is the story of the whole wacked-out bloomin' family--Lord and Lady Redesdale, Nancy the writer, Pam the country woman, beautiful Diana (the fascist's mistress), Deborah the Duchess of Devonshire, Decca the muckraking journalist and Communist, Tom the brother and Unity, Hitler's girlfriend. And you thought your family was s
This is how these things happen in my world: when I read Kendall Haley's book, 
The Day I Became an Autodidact
I became intrigued by her favorite author, Nancy Mitford.
This is the story of the whole wacked-out bloomin' family--Lord and Lady Redesdale, Nancy the writer, Pam the country woman, beautiful Diana (the fascist's mistress), Deborah the Duchess of Devonshire, Decca the muckraking journalist and Communist, Tom the brother and Unity, Hitler's girlfriend.
And you thought your family was screwed up...this dysfunctional group figured prominently in the WWII era worldwide tabloid press.
A very detailed biography, and simply, but does tend to skip around a lot.

This is an exhaustively researched, compelling read about a family blessed (cursed?) with no shortage of drama.
I can only assume that the fact that Diana was still living when this book was completed led Lovell to paint Diana in a more flattering light, but it is hard to stomach excusing Diana's support of Fascism in light of the horrors it produced.
A more balanced look at the facts in light of contemporary understanding would certainly seem appropriate here: in truth, you cannot defend the indefensible.
Still, I was utterly drawn into the saga of this remarkable family.
Well worth a read.
Other things I liked about this book were learning more about the fascist party in England in the 30s, and two of the sisters had a close personal relationship with Hitler that was fascinating to read about.
I've had The American Way of Death on my to-read list for awhile, and it turns out one of the sisters, Jessica Mitford, is the author.
Oh, also, I enjoyed the book because the Mitford family had the same makeup as my own: 6 sisters and 1 brother.
This is a really fascinating biography of the "Mitford Sisters" - 6 sisters who were born into a minor aristocratic British family in the early 1900s and went on to become quite well known for their very unique and individual lives.
One sister went on to become a well known writer, one moved to Germany and was a supporter and friend of Hitler, one married a Guinness heir but divorced him to marry the founder of the British Fascist party and was interned during WWII, another was a life long communist who eloped with a cousin to the Spanish Civil War, and one married the Duke of Devonshire and is credited helping him turn his ancestral home Chatsworth into one of Britain's most successful stately homes.
guess i'm not giving this one back anymore.----Elise insists I read this "rivetingly intense history lesson." Rivetingly intense!
I say, old chap, here comes Lord Smartingford of Braintonshire!
Shall we dine upon a nice cup of tea, then?
We can discuss the economy, and the global situ-AYYY-tion, and ever so many other matters!
I am so very versed in such matters, reading as do I The Economist, just as soon as the postman delivers it by the estate, don't you know.
I find that only the right cracking coverage of The E-CON-omist keeps me jolly-well informed and all that, wouldn't you agree?
