https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87573.The_Mystery_of_the_Green_Ghost
This book is one of my most favourites in the "Three Investigators" series.
I love mystery stories in which not everything is rationally explained (meaning: there's only a paranormal "explanation" after all, or "The monster lived after all!") at the end, and this one does have that element.
So it gets a 5 star rating because I personally love it, not because it's a literary masterpiece or extremely complicated or highly recommended by me or anything.
But 5 stars it is, it has a special place in my heart.
More books in the series will get this rating for this same reason.
Irgendwie musste ich mich zu Beginn des Buches ganz schön durchzwängen.
Das liegt vielleicht auch daran, weil mir in den Hörspielen die Darstellung des alten chinesischen Mannes immer als leicht rassistisch vorkam und ich befürchtete, das würde in diesem doch recht altmodischen Buch noch stärker so sein.
Aber im Gegenteil, ohne die lächerliche Aussprache beschränkt sich das Ganze auf ein paar Stereotypen.
Der Fall selbst nahm für mich in der Mitte des Buches Fahrt auf und war spannender als er mir vom Hörbuch in Erinnerung blieb.
Und auch gefährlicher - ich erinnere mich nicht, dass Peter & Bob im Buch so direkt und oft mit dem Tode gedroht wurde.
Another good three investigators mystery, but they honestly are all ready getting a bit predictable. Although I suppose in a young adult mystery series, you will end up with several "Scooby Doo" type stories.We have a haunted house, a spooky ancient chinese guy, some valuable Ghost Pearls, and a huge mystery for the boys to solve. Even when predictable, these books always entertain. I suppose some of them is the power of nostalgia, but the books are also pretty well written.
Jupiter Jones,Pete Crenshaw,Bob Andrews what an awesome childhood we had!
As this is a series, reading multiple books would, I’m sure, provide more insight and depth into the three main characters: Jupiter, Pete, and Bob. They avoid being too flat and stereotypical (something that tends to befall a lot of protagonists in young adult fiction, especially from that time period)...Jupiter is smart, but instead of being the nerdy type, he’s more of the bumbling “stocky” type (think of Chunk from The Goonies, only having Data’s mind and personality…and interesting mix of character and archetype); Pete is the tall, athletic, good-looking jock type, but with a touch more brains and more sympathy and empathy than usually present in such a character; and Bob is more of the nerd (and I say that lovingly, as I like nerds), the smaller kid who isn’t quite as fast as strong, but who is very persistent and always ready and willing…his smarts are in more of a persistent, hard work type of way than the confident (sometimes overconfident) smarts of Jupiter that just come easily to him.
I read a few of the "Three Investigators" books when I was a kid and remembered them fondly.
A few years back I found a bunch of them at a book sale and picked them up.
This is one of those and I really enjoyed revisiting my childhood.
In this one, an old house is being torn down when a mysterious green ghost appears.
Two of the investigators, Bob Andrews and Pete Crenshaw are on hand for that first appearance.
Later, the third member of the trio, brainy Jupiter Jones, joins in.
An easy, fun read.
What a great young adult story....written in 1965. The Mystery of the Green Ghost had a strong plot, excellent characters, and overall was an engaging story. Loved this story when I was 12 and love it now forty years later.
I remember liking this book quite a bit when I was a boy. It is still good, but not as good as I remember it. I associate it quite a bit with the early Scooby Doo cartoons - the ones with actual ghosts or phantoms (people in sheets) were may favorites, so I think that is why this book was also a favorite.Re-reading it to my kids, I found it not quite as engaging as Terror Castle or the Stuttering Parrot. Lots of interesting characters though, with a couple neat locations and an engaging mystery as well.
Well told and well put together, this is another sterling Robert Arthur effort (and nicely follows the timeline, with Bob having his brace removed just before the story begins).2014 update - Bob Andrews and Pete Crenshaw decide to investigate Green House, an old mansion in Rocky Beach that is being torn down.
Well told and constructed, this is one of the better Arthur novels and follows the timeline nicely (it mentions Bob having his brace removed just before the story begins and this is the book where the Investigators get their ‘Volunteer Junior Assistant Deputy’ cards from Chief Reynolds).
Well told and well put together, this is another sterling Robert Arthur effort (and nicely follows the timeline, with Bob having his brace removed just before the story begins).2014 update - Bob Andrews and Pete Crenshaw decide to investigate Green House, an old mansion in Rocky Beach that is being torn down.
Well told and constructed, this is one of the better Arthur novels and follows the timeline nicely (it mentions Bob having his brace removed just before the story begins and this is the book where the Investigators get their ‘Volunteer Junior Assistant Deputy’ cards from Chief Reynolds).
the stuff of legends, for a young boy.[image error]Like in most of their investigations (that I can recall) they have an apparent supernatural mystery that they put their minds to and expose as a hoax, covering up a crime.Basically, Scooby-Doo ripped them off.
They would have got away with it, if not for Jupiter Jones, Pete Crenshaw, and Bob Andrews.(as an additional amusement for fans of this series who may be interested in an ironic take on the concept, check out the Donald Glover film "Dream Team", which is basically what happens if the Three Investigators grow up, without changing a bit.
Incredibly funny.)And I'm not kidding about Scooby-Doo. The concept for that series was ripped from the pages of The Three Investigators.
I read the original version (with Hitchcock in the final chapter) probably 40 years ago.
This reissue from 1985 replace Hitchcock with Hector Sebastian, but little else was changed that I could see.
The actual mystery is quite good, and even a jaded mystery lover should have a surprise or two before the end.
In fact, one or two lines should have parents really think about letting a child under ten read it.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this with my youngest child, and recommend it to other parents.Find it!
One of my favs as a kid. Read the entire series. How can I not give it 5 stars?
“ They went into an empty room and were glad that it was only a coffin, but the thing that surprised them was seeing a skeleton.”(30)  The plot revolves around finding the mystery of what happened to a Chinese princess and what she is hiding and doesn’t want anybody to know.The book’s big conflict is that Bob, Jupiter, and Peter are trying to keep the secret of the pearls from the public while discovering where the princess hide them.
Now the reason why I loved this book so much is because it was my first mystery and at first I didn’t want to read it but my dad made me so I started to read it as the story got more exciting and Peter and Bob kept yelling about finding a ghost that’s what made me keep reading.
A fun little Scooby Doo mystery, minus the goofiness, and with actual threat. This one does a much better touch on race through the lens of the time period.
The Alfred Hitchock and the Three Investigators series of books are fondly remembered from my childhood.
The Three Investigators certainly hit the spot, with adventure stories and mysteries in far off places.
This one centred around a green ghost that appeared in and around various places in California, and the way Mr Arthur (the author, though for many years I actually believed that Alfred Hitchcock was the author), binds the characters together is great for a young mind.
He also manages continuity throughout the entire Three Investigators series, another important aspect of junior fiction as it encourages the reading of all of the books in the series.
This series is a wonderful one for kids. The Hitchcock character only does what amounts to cameos, and sometimes, if I remember correctly, doesn't even show up at all. The ones about the Mexican bandit and the Spider stand out in my mind and I remember them quite well. Overall, they were all fun to read.
I loved these books when I was a kid. I was never into Nancy Drew or the The Hardy Boys. The Three Investigators series was it for me. I still like them as much now as I did then. I wish I owned the whole series.
by Harry Kane.SUMMARY: An old house with a new ghost; a necklace of Ghost Pearls that is found and then stolen; a series of mishaps; sets the Three Investigators on a search for the truth.THE THREE INVESTIGATORS“We Investigate Anything”?
It stands for mysteries unsolved, enigmas unanswered, conundrums requiring an answer.”I grew up with The Three Investigators series and have been looking for them for years.
– The story actually starts real slow and it wasn’t until Chapter 10 when the boys try to escape through a cave that tunnels through the old gold mines that things picked up.
Pada malam penampakan hantu itu, bukan hanya mereka yang melihat melainkan beberapa orang termasuk polisi.
Padahal ia tinggal di daerah lain, Verdant Valley, dan memerlukan pesawat dari Rocky Beach untuk sampai ke sana.
-----Trio Detektif tidak hanya harus memecahkan penampakan hantu di Rocky Beach melainkan juga di Verdant Valley.
Ternyata ceritanya seru, walaupun ada beberapa tulisan yang berulang, namun tetap sedap dibaca.Menurut saya target buku ini adalah anak-anak sampai remaja.
:) Pembaca dewasa mungkin tidak terlalu tertantang menyingkap misteri buku ini, karena pada pertengahan sudah dapat ditebak apa dan siapa pelakunya.
“ ’AAAhhhhhhh---eeeeeeee!’ The ghostly scream sounded again.” In the Mystery of the Green Ghost Bob and Pete go investigate an old haunted mansion that has that has been rumored to have a ghost of the former owner to haunt who ever comes in by echoing his screams of pain from breaking his neck and dying.
Nobody had the courage to go entered the area that had no life in for fifty years, but three kids who dedicated their lives to solve mysteries and crime.
For example, one part a person game to the boy's and the officer and talked about a secret room in the mansion.
If you like short mystery novels I will recommend this book to you.
It was coming from the tape recorder.” In the Mystery of the Green Ghost Bob and Pete go investigate an old haunted mansion that has that has been rumored to have a ghost of the former owner to haunt who ever comes in by echoing his screams of pain from breaking his neck and dying.
I find the book a little boring because, it gives you something interesting and then doesn't leave it to much of a mystery.
For example, one part a person game to the boy's and the officer and talked about a secret room in the mansion.
The Three Investigators is a juvenile detective series published in the 60s, 70s, and 80s that spans about 43 books.
They feature three teenage boys who mostly investigate paranormal type stuff that they debunk (somewhat like Scooby-Doo) or other abnormal crimes that the police do not handle.
I discovered these books in the library during middle school and promptly read them all.
The Mystery of the Green Ghost is #4 in the series.
The boys investigate a green ghost that people keep seeing.
Sometimes these books don't hold up well for me given that they are written for middle-schoolers and they can get repetitive.
A ghost, a mine, and a string of pearls.Not a modern book by any means this book is a bit racist to Chinese and Mexican peoples.
The mystery is not terribly difficult to solve, but it is a children's book, and I have read about it before.It's interesting because the book tries to put disabilities into a more positive light (Bob's oft mentioned leg) and attempts to do a good job representing other cultures as allies.
It just doesn't go as far in presenting the culture in a good light as it might, but at least it does make an attempt.

When everyone else was reading Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys, I was reading Alfred Hitchcock and The Three Investigators. Written in 1965, some of the references are antiquated, but the fun of a good mystery still exists. So great spending time with my childhood friends Jupiter Jones, Bob Andrews and Pete Crenshaw in the Jones Salvage Yard.
Not as good as some of The Three Investigators, but the kids liked it. I missed the junkyard Headquarters scenes, while the sleuths hung out elsewhere. Also, I didn't like that Jupiter Jones wasn't around for a lot of the book, though that did give Pete and Bob a chance to shine. The chalked question marks showed up again: always a plus.
Lively story, with a bit of California history thrown in.
3.5 stars
At the age of 5, I found this book pleasantly terrifying.
