https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12622.Language_and_Mind_3ed
And why does he call his thinking rationalist, and Skinner’s empiricist?Simply put, rationalist accounts of knowledge argue that certain ideas cannot be derived from sense perception or from experience, and so must be derived from reason, which is an innate faculty.
The deep-level grammar is a logical relationship between ideas, while universal grammar is a set of properties that any grammar must have in order to be an allowable grammar.)Because Chomsky believes that this deep structure must exist in order to account for some basic properties of grammar (such as the above example), learning a language is not so simple as we might be led to believe.
In the Anshen lecture, Noam Chomsky’s lays out his basic thoughts and concept on linguistics.
“In the study of language, there is new understanding of the computational systems of the mind/brain, including those commonly called ‘phonetic’ or ‘semantic,’ though in fact, all are ‘syntactic’ in the broader sense that they have to do with mental representations.”"Chomsky" by Duncan Rawlinson - http://flickr.com/photos/thelastminut....
Licensed under CC BY 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons - https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Fi...In the language faculty, “the cognitive system stores information that is accessed by the performance systems, which use for articulation, interpretation, expression of thought, asking questions, referring, and so on.” For Chomsky, the linguist should identify the principles of languages underlying grammatical constructs, principles that may be reduced to more general ones.
پولشو دادم.نمرشم نگرفتم.چون نمیفهمیدم تکلیفشم ننوشتم...دلم میخواد پاره کنمش و آتیشش بزنم...#عصبانی
یک قفسه باید درست کنم به نام "مشکل ها" کتاب هایی که باید بعد از خواندن کتاب های مرتبط دوباره خوانده شوند بلکه فهمیده شوند!
Nevertheless, there are a few points that would do the publication good if they were further clarified (the underlined phrases are parts that merit further clarification; all citations refer to the '68 edition):- [While investigating abstract rules of phonological transformation]: "A single example can hardly carry much conviction.
36)- [When refuting Thorpe's characterization of human and animal languages as "propositional"]: "Rate of alternation of high and low pitch [songs] is a linguistic dimension correlated with the nonlinguistic dimension of intention to defend a territory.
The bid signals its intention to defend a territory by selecting a correlated point along the linguistic dimension of pitch alternation[...] The linguistic dimension is abstract, but the principle is clear.
Taken in a musical sense, music is when enough structure (i.e. symmetry, grammar) is given to set the mind dancing with the patterns of sounds (which we can discern through their relation in a harmonic series) yet sets the mind to discover analogies and metaphors which best capture the subtle differences in moving from phrase to phrase.The more I think about it, music is really an abstraction of the rhetorical content of language.
They all, in their way, help to shape some aspect of the human mind.An interesting question would be what innate faculties does music and language both make use of...?
اين كتاب مشتمل بر 6 مقاله است. دستاوردهاي زبانشناختي در مطالعه ذهن: گذشته، دستاوردهاي زبانشناختي در مطالعه ذهن: حال، دستاوردهاي زبانشناختي در مطالعه ذهن: آينده، صورت و معني در زبانهاي طبيعي، ماهيت صوري زبان و در نهايت زبانشناسي و فلسفه. دكتر كوروش صفوي در مقدمه خود آورده است: اين اثر همانند تمامي آثار كلاسيك رشتههاي مختلف ويژگيهاي خود را داراست. با گذشت زمان، مخاطبان اين دسته از متون را متخصصاني تشكيل ميدهند كه با اهدافي ويژه به مطالعه آثاري ميپردازند كه شايد اعتبار علمي زمان خود را از دست داده
تا طرحی فشرده و نظام‏مند از نظریه دستور گشتاری- زایشی ارائه کند و جایگاه آن را در روان‏شناسی انسان تشریح و توجیه نماید.در مقاله ششم که در کتاب تحت عنوان «زبان‏شناسی و فلسفه»آمده و مترجم کتاب از آن به عنوان شاهکار این مجموعه یاد کرده است.چامسکی علایق مشترک بین رشته‏های زبان‏شناسی و فلسفه به ویژه معرفت‏شناسی را برمی‏شمارد و نقطه تلاقی این دو رشته را نشان می‏دهد.این سخنرانی که در آوریل 1968 در دانشگاه نیویورک و در حضور فیلسوفان حرفه‏ای قرائت شده، آخرین مطالعات در زمینه زبان‏شناسی را مورد بررسی قرار می‏دهد و نگرش‏های ارزنده‏ای را درباره ماهیت دانش بشری، مبانی فراگیری آن و نیز روش‏های فراگیری ارائه می‏نماید.چامسکی پس از بحثی دشوار که از خواننده، دقت نظر فراوان و پایداری در درک مطلب را طلب می‏کند، نتیجه می‏گیرد که:«به طور خلاصه، من نسبت به این موضوع تردید دارم که زبان‏شناسی، دست کم در شرائط کنونی‏اش، بتواند«فن جدیدی»برای فلسفه تحلیلی به دست دهد که در خور توجه باشد.با این حال، به نظر من چنین می‏رسد که مطالعه زبان می‏تواند نتایجی را درباره‏ی دانش بشر روشن سازد و تا حدی نیز به اثبات برساند که مستقیما به مباحث کلاسیک فلسفه‏ی ذهن مربوطاند.
These suffer from the same problem: the limited and corrupt data available to the language learner cannot account, in a probabilistic learning model, for the rapid acquisition of linguistic competence.
But the sorts of mistakes that it makes are ones that no native speaker would ever make, even in early childhood.In Chomsky's view, the only way to account for rapid and accurate language competence is by means of an innate human capability for language, one in which the range of possible grammars is extremely limited, and whose surface structure is obtained by selection from a small set of possible transformations from a deep structure.
The overall style and tone are definitely those of a research paper, but for a book about language written by a linguist, I thought that it used remarkably dry language and unnecessarily complicated sentences that didn’t facilitate my understanding of some points.
However, I do really appreciate the value of his work and I felt like I took away some important points in the fascinating field of linguistics and grammar.Overall, I would recommend “Language and the Mind” to people very passionate in the field, well accustomed to reading research papers.
كم حجم و مزخرف!!!!خيلى بد بود ..
Troppo per me. Non ho le basi per capirlo, purtroppo. Devo partire da un livello più basso.
This is a very short book which is based on a lecture by Chomsky and subsequent commentaries by a philosopher (Akeel Bilgrami), a neurobiologist (James Schwartz) and a cognitive psychologist (George Miller).
Given this diverse panel, it follows that Chomsky's essay is quite broad, covering an enormous amount of topics such as Fregean semantics, computational approaches to cognition, the mind-body problem, unification prospects in the sciences, and the limits of understanding.
Yet, for anyone wanting to get a much more comprehensive and detailed exposition of these topics, I'd recommend Chomsky's 'New Horizons in the Study of Language and Mind'.
Chomsky addresses what he considers to be the tough questions in the cognitive sciences. He implies the field(s) are going in a direction that is counterproductive. The book is short and divided into three sections: 1. the actual paper, 2. remarks and rebuttle from 3 fellow scholars, and 3. Chomsky's conclusions. Unfortunately, the first section is very dry. The last to sections more than make up for this. It's worth the read if you are into cognition, language, or Chomsky.
Dadurch ist natürlich auch der Stand der Linguistik und der Psychologie ziemlich veraltet, ebenso gab es nach dem strukturellen Paradigma auch noch so etwas wie das poststrukturelle Paradigma.Dennoch ist der Inhalt, soweit ich das beurteilen kann, gut beschrieben und beschreibt Forschungsstand der damaligen Zeit.
Aber Chomsky gibt auch Hinweise auf weitere Forschungsergebnisse aus der damaligen Zeit, wobei ich von den zitierten Personen zumeist noch nie etwas gehört habe.
Keine Ahnung also ob deren Theorien sich langfristig durchgesetzt haben.Im Teil zur Vergangenheit gibt Chomsky sehr interessante historische Einblicke mit drei Schwerpunkten, den auf Descartes basierenden Cartesianern und deren Einstellung zum menschlichen Geist, die „philosophische“ oder „universale“ Grammatik beginnend im 17.
Instead, using the Poverty of the Stimulus argument commented upon elsewhere in this blog, this system must be innate.Thirdly, the “innateness” thesis connects his, that is to say Chomsky’s view, with a broad, important but largely forgotten tradition of rationalism (long since eclipsed by the rise of empiricism in general, and behavioralism in particular, in the human sciences).At this stage I want to comment about one aspect of Chomsky’s argument: that semantic deep structures exist prior to their transformation into phonological surface structures.
زبان و اندیشه / نوآم چامسکی / تهران: هرمس، چاپِ چهارم 1391 زبان-روانشناسی، اندیشه و تفکر (view spoiler)[پیشگفتاررابطهی میان روان آدمی و گفتار، پیچیدهتر از آناست که همهی ظرایفاش را بتوان فهمید. زبان، یکی از راههای عقلانی ارتباط ما با دیگران است البته زبان، برای توصیف عواطف و احساسات نیز بهکار میرود، که توضیح این عواطف، غالباً به قابلیتهایی فراتر از تحلیلهای عقلانی نیاز دارد وگرنه بهعنوان مثال: توصیف خوشرایحه بودن یک گل سرخ، صرفاً با استفاده از تحلیلی عقلانی، فقط درحد توضیحی شیمیایی باقی خواهد مان
[9]در مطالعات مربوط به فلسفه‌ی زبان و معناشناسی، نوعی از این فرض نیز بدیهی انگاشته شده است که افکار مشترک، از طریق زبانی مشترک، میان مردم بیان و انتقال داده می‌شوند.
[14] اگر بگویم: «لندن، کنار رودخانه‌ی تیمز قرار دارد یا ندارد.» آیا اشاره‌ی من به لندن، اشاره به موجودیتی قابل اتکاء است؟ پاسخ مثبت به این پرسش عجیب خواهد بود زیرا ممکن است سال‌ها بعد تحت شرایطی خاص، شهر لندن بکلی ویران شود و دوباره در جایی دیگر بنا شود؛ و اشارات ما به آن، باز هم اشاراتی به لندن تلقی شود.
Glimpse of Chomsky's linguistics theories and idea ,nice to read
Many of the ideas produced were good, and have been doing good work for linguistics, some were rubbish (the thought that the historical phonetic changes are somehow assumed by the speaker in choosing the phonological content of a morpheme for a certain task is a particularly shiny set of balls.)The last essay, the recent one, is fine and curious, but unpleasantly short, by far not substantial enough to redeem the rest of the book.I'm putting three stars, because I recognise the impact of the ideas exposed.
I don't know why anyone would read this for anything other than historical interest, especially since there are better-written and up-to-date books on the topic.
The insights within, a continuation of Chomsky's theoretical ideas about, and search for, Universal Grammar, are poignant but also more technical than the average reader might need.
Though I find Chomsky's theoretical psychological models fascinating, I shudder to think how underwhelming I would have found one of these lectures live--so detailed, like conference proceedings instead of general lectures.
Without having already introduced myself to the idea of Chomsky's theories, I would have had trouble grasping the "big picture" of the theories presented herein.
This is a wonderful follow-up to Chomsky's work, but I would not recommend it as a springboard.
This book is repetitive in parts where he argues the same points of view against some of the same critiques in a couple of different essays in the book. For me, this book helped me have a better understanding of some concepts that gave me problems in other explanations from other texts. The reiteration of these concepts really drove it into my brain.
This book is worth reading if only for the first essay, in which Chomsky notes that a sentence's structure undergoes some sort of transformative process that gives it a pregnant meaning for its utterer or whomever hears the sentence. After a brief conversation of some of the implications of this idea, he descends into pedantry.
Over all well written and informative. Some specific problems with the edition, though. The e-book version was obviously hastily put together, as it featured many spelling and punctuation errors. It's disheartening when publishers obviously don't take the time and care to ensure they put out a quality product. Especially for a book on the topic of language itself!
Noam Chomsky Language and Mind was a part of the awakening reading during my psychology's studies. Need to re-read it.
i've read it before, but decided to again after reading Stephen Pinker's THE STUFF OF THOUGHT. if you're a Minimalist Syntax person (like me), this is Chomsky at his eloquent best (and not nearly so dense as his MINIMALIST PROGRAM).
I didn't read the book. http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/langua...http://www.nybooks.com/articles/1643Chomsky against Darwin through the innate humanity of the human brain as an argument. There is a metaphysical distinction between humans and animals.
Nice to read Chomsky on a subject other than power and politics. -Really-I had to read this after reading Jaynes and getting a feel for the evolution of consciousness and the role language and symbolic language plays in that. Good to see variations on these themes.
You might want to learn another language. Noam is inspirational, and technical as he should be; for what he is all about a gnome.
The book tackles the development of language philosophy. It tries to find an answer to what is the nature of language learning and what are the processes that take place in the learner's mind.
Incredibly fascinating. Chomsky is a superb scientist, actually. Of course, he is a terrible political/ social theorist.
بخشی از خطِ زمانِ زبانشناسی در دهههای اخیر.
بخشی از خطِ زمانِ زبان‌شناسی در دهه‌های اخیر.
