https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866153.Guardians_of_Time
However, I think many modern time travel books may be connected to Ray Bradbury’s classic short story A Sound of Thunder with it’s butterfly effect theory.
Poul Anderson’s novel The Corridors of Time established an agreeable time travel method that blended elements of science fiction with historic fiction for a very pleasing result.
The short stories that comprise the mash-up novel The Guardians of Time were mostly first published in the 1950s.
One of the most pleasing elements of this book, and presumably about all of the Time Patrol series, is that time travel becomes a vehicle by which Anderson can explore concepts of alternate history.
William S. Burroughs used to write GETS in the margins of books that contained usable material.... "good enough to steal". My copy hasn't actually been annotated thus... but it could have been.
See, this is exactly the wrong way to go about time travel.
Let's toss in an elitist group of guardians who seem to spend all their time bending the rules for pure nepotism.
Maybe we can make them essentially disinterested in death and suffering except insofar as it directly affects their friends and lovers.
Let's have that be mostly lovers, and those mostly women who can't take care of themselves.
The ladies of the past and future are, I guess, the spoils of the time wars.
Someone should go back in time and prevent Poul Anderson from using the word amanuensis twice, in unrelated situations, in this book.
Lo he pasado muy bien con estos relatos (traducción antigua y por lo que se mejorable y mejorada) de viaje en el tiempo que juegan con la paradoja (aunque flexible y no muy explicada) en líneas enormes de historia y se centran en "el individuo no importa"
Ma olen lõpuks aru saanud et mulle ei meeldi Poul Andersoni jutud ikka eriti. Ei meeldinud "Taevarahvas", ei meeldi muud jutud siin-seal ja ei meeldi eriti ka see lootusetult vananenud Ajapatrulli-kogumik. Ega neil lugudel otseselt muud viga polnud kui et kirjutamisaasta 50ndatel andis tunda ja nad polnud ka eriti huvitavad. Selline keskmine jorutamine ühesõnaga. Viimane, Kartaago-lugu kuidagi oli teistest kriipsukese parem. Nõrgapoolne "kolm".
This book is a set of four stories from his series titled "Time Patrol" that ran in The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, written between 1955 and 1959.
Despite the fact that recent news has given us the kibosh to time travel (at least, perhaps, for travel to the past) such a notion was instrumental, of course, in the development of the genre.
I would recommend it both as an exemplar of the problem (paradox and uncertainty) as it was conceived of by the writers of the day as well as a specimen of the theories recently discouraged by scientific reporting...
Mõnus tükk ajarännuulmet, millele sooviks kindlasti lisa. Ajaloo erinevate sündmuste õiget kulgu tagav Manse Everard seikleb erinevates ajastutes, selja taga suur organisatsioon, mida omakorda juhivad inimeste järglased kaugest tulevikust. Raske öelda, kui tõepärane tundub toimumispaikade ja sündmuste kirjeldus inimesele, kellel on minust paremad ajalooteadmised, kuid minu jaoks olid need vähemalt piisavalt huvitavad. Kogu tugevaim jutt on "Delenda est", kus ajalugu on põhjalikult loomulikust kursist kõrvale kallutatud ja tänapäevaseid riike pole kunagi tekkinud. Halvim, õigemini mõttetuim lugu oli "Gibraltari juga", mis tundus ülejäänud tekstide kõrval lihtsalt suvalise purtsatusena ja ruumitäitjana.
Oduvijek sam volio SF u kojem je vrijeme glavni akter, a kad uzmem u obzir da sam imao 16 godina kada sam ovo pročitao onda i ne može biti ništa manje od petice, dobro se sjećam općeg dojma - mljac!Morat ću napraviti jedan reread da vidim kako sada sjeda djelo iz 1955., sitna je to knjižica, taman za jedno poslijepodne/večer.
Dat geeft de schrijvers natuurlijk heel wat mogelijkheden maar ook enorme problemen met deze zo complexe materie.Poul Anderson slaagt er niet alleen in om origineel uit de hoek te komen maar het ook alleemaal heel geloofwaardig te brengen.
Doordat hij daar bovenop ook nog eens een groot schrijver is, biedt dat de lezer een fantastische mix, letterlijjk en figuurlijk.
Hij houdt zich wijselijk ver van de technische "chronos" materie en biedt een pragmatisch zij het ietwat dogmatisch antwoord op de mogelijke paradoxen.De nadruk, naast het avontuurlijke, ligt toch wel op het menselijke aspect.
Verfrissend, ook vandaag nog.
Miesel gives a good literary analysis at the end, offering a deeper human interpretation of Anderson's purpose, but in the end, it's more of a fun romp through time.
They may cause him angst, but he's up to the emotional conflict, resolved as he is by the essential rightness of his job.This book is an earlier version of a more complete edition that came out years later with more stories: these five plus others.
The careful reader who enjoys this kind of tale should probably research and hold out for the longer book.
I don't know of Meisel's essay is in the later edition.
I very much liked the rollicking time-travelling advetures of this series of lightly connected stories. The Time Patrol is a cool idea and well-executed. Not that we expect any less of Poul Anderson.
Say what you will, but these stories were very much for my taste. Even so, that towards the end of the book I kept slowing the pace of reading it in order to keep the guardians of time longer with me, to linger still in their adventure and ignore my own reality.Keep them coming, please!
A collection of short work by Poul Anderson that has not really aged well.All of the time travel subjects treated here are pretty old-fashioned and insipid by the 21st century.Characters are bland and the action is slow and boring.
3,5 ☆ Curioso libro, no leí muchos de ciencia ficción, me estrené con Bradbury. Con ganas de leer más sobre este autor. Me ha sido muy interesante y ciertamente divertido seguir las aventuras a través del tiempo de Manse Everard. Y por supuesto leer más libros sobre este género xD
Definitely dated, but the stories are pretty fun to read. They go into history in a way that many books don't and have been well thought out,
Chatching stories, new points of view on time-travelling... :) Some chapters bit too long. :)))
For old-fashioned, 1950s escapist science fiction, these four novellas are a fine, fun read. They have the flaws of that period - a lot of exposition, manly male protagonists, women as decoration - but they also have Anderson's infectious fascination with historic cultures, and his ability to depict a good swashbuckling sword fight. His respect for his subject matter also lifts these stories above the average, repeatedly showing that early peoples weren't the ignorant savages of the pulps, but just as smart as we are.Dated but entertaining.
Decide for yourself if that is too big a risk.First of all, although the "science" of time travel and the various risks and effects of doing so are satisfactorily covered, unlike in the stories of many other authors for the time or since, the book is not about the metaphysics of it or clever twists in the logic of time, any more than Star Trek is about the warp drive.Revealed early on, so it is not really a spoiler, is that the Time Patrol is not a human creation.
Although the agents are all human from various periods of time, the masters of the Patrol are the Danellans, beings from the very far future, presumably our descendants, who have evolved so much that they no longer resemble us in body or thought.
Four short stories about time travel.
They felt very much of their time, pulp fiction of the mid-50's.
The concepts good, but the execution was...meh.
Fleshed out the idea could have made one good novel.
As it was each story felt underdeveloped, a little confused in places, and certainly rushed.As expected the stories get progressively better as you make your way through the book with the second story being pretty much a re-write, re-telling, variation of the first.
The last story, one of a parallel world that followed a different fork in time, was the most interesting and most annoying at not being fully fleshed out.
Чувствую, что эта книга останется самой загодочной для меня в этом году.
Вот что вы ожидаете получить, когда беретесь читать книгу о "полицейских" времени, следящих за порядком во всем временном потоке?
Я надеялась получить экшн или детектив в духе "Роботов Зари".А оказалось все еще более не так и не о том.
Но Андерсон удивил этой своей стороной историка, все же фантастики тут не более, чем чайная ложечка.
А он мне казался представителем как раз хардовой части жанра.В общем, книга переварила мой мозг и остатками его говорю вам, что это не та книга, мнение о которой составится за 1 прочтение.
Diciamo che con la serie della "Time Patrol" non ha propriamente dato il meglio di sè: forse la peggior teoria sui viaggi nel tempo in cui mi sia mai imbattuto, alla base di storielle adolescenziali completamente prive di spessore o del benchè minimo spunto innovativo (pur considerando che la serie è stata scritta a cavallo tra gli anni '50 e '60).Concedo la seconda stella perchè, se non altro, Anderson denota una certa passione per la storia, ed in ogni episodio si inventa uno spicchio di "passato alternativo" nuova (non sempre interessante, in ogni caso).
Purtroppo questo non può bastare, visto che tutto il resto non sta in piedi, in particolare l'interazione tra i personaggi, di una banalità soncertante....inaccettabile da un plurivincitore di Premi Hugo.
I was enchanted with these stories when I was a kid.
Maybe because after i learned about the passage of time - an event which came later, i think, then the first death in the family (although, perhaps closely following it) - and realized the finiteness of its personal use span, a time-travel fantasy became a positivist substitute for a more dangerous fantasy adolescent boys can be prone to: that of one's personal immortality.
Re-reading these now, I still derive some slight pleasure from catching glimpses of my younger reading self.
The language is the most pedestrian sort: mid-20th century tweed Anglo-American, with no iota of experimentation.
The best ScFi is concerned with the question "What if ?" Well, what if someone threatened to travel back in time and stop your father meeting your mother so you were never born ?
That's when you'd want to call in Poul Andeson's Time Patrol, recruited from everywhere and everywhen, to counter such mischievous intererence with the proper order of things.
Anderson's hero is recruited in the mid 20th Century, then plunged into a series of temporal scenarios where, amongst other things, the Carthaginians win the Punic Wars, and the Mongols discover America and only he can get the historical record back on track.A glorious romp from thr Golden Age of SciFi.
Random thoughts on this collection of stories:The stories are definitely dated in its attitude toward women, but I enjoyed some of the historical elements enough to get me through it.I thought the last story in which the main characters jump forward to discover a completely new timeline was an interesting enough premise to be a novel.
I felt as though it were a missed opportunity.Considering that the mandate of the Time Patrol is to prevent problems, they sure seem to create as many as they solve.
Interesting, but not good enough that I would recommend it to anyone unless they really loved stories about time travel and its consequences.
Finalmente conheci a "Patrulha do Tempo" de Poul Anderson. Uma boa narrativa. O autor passeia por épocas remotas e uma linha temporal paralela com o protagonista Everard. É um detalhes histórico impressionante, contudo não tem personagens tão marcantes ou detalhes quanto à organização da Patrulha, ou mesmo dos grandes-chefes milhões de anos no futuro.Vale a leitura pela inventividade e correções históricas que são providenciadas pela Patrulha.
Wonderful stories for the imagination! I first read this when I was 15 and I've never been the same. I especially loved the short story Delenda Est. Mr. Anderson opened up an infinite universe of possibilities for me and I've been in love with science-fiction and alternate-history ever since.
I really liked this - four stories about the same character, who works for an organisation that patrols time. Excellent!! I loved the four scenarios and what the one little thing that changed did to the rest of the world!!
I first read "Guardians of Time" in the 1960's. I reread the book. The new version has one more story (Gibraltar Falls). The book contains 5 short stories. Time patrol police come from the future and travel through the centuries to police history.
Good collection of "What-If?" stories. Having said that, the only reason I picked up this dated collection is because it was one of the pioneers in the time-travel genre (and how not to write them now.
Agréable à lire et sans prise de tête. Des rappels historiques parfois oubliés ;-) Une écriture fluide sous forme de nouvelles plus ou moins longues . La dernière donnant malheureusement l'impression d'avoir été ajoutée pour atteindre le nombre de pages requis ...
