https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107339.Hebrew_Greek_Key_Word_Study_Bible
I have learned everything I need to know to live a good life and be a person who loves my neighbor as myself (or even more than myself)It has taught me that we are all Brothers and Sisters.
We are all the same, gender means nothing, color means nothing, wealth means nothing, a homeless person is every bit as good as a wealthy one.
It has taught me that wealth and greed can keep a person from enjoying the next life in The Kingdom of Heaven.
It has taught me to repent and study to show myself approved.
It has taught me to love mother earth and respect her.
One of the best study bibles.....didn't see it listed, but version I own is actually KJV.READ THE BIBLE EVERY DAY!
IT'S GOD'S WORD FOR YOU TODAY AND FOREVER.
Today was reading Psalm 139!
Thank You Jesus!
Isaiah 51 and Psalms 147, indeed You are FATHER God!
Isaiah 14 and Ephesians 1 !
Oh, the experience with GOD!Ezekiel 37...
I prophesy as I am commanded: YES, these dry bones shall LIVE!
for the LORD hath said so!
Amen!Psalm 51 for Elul 2012!The Book of Hebrews!
Praise be to the LORD our God and THE LAMB!
Israel is Forever!
10/27/12 - Isaiah 4!
10/27/12 - Isaiah 4!
In reality, I'll never finish this book. It remains a beloved reference, along with my Interlinear and Vine's Expository. Has been for year.
I had fairly high expectations going into this particular review project based on what I have heard some others saying about the Hebrew-Greek Key Word Study Bible from AMG Publishers.
I can honestly say that this Bible actually exceeded my already fairly high expectations in both content and quality.
Quality is great, print is overall very good and nicely laid out, I would highly recommend this Study Bible.
I received a copy of this Bible in exchange for this review from AMG Publishers and all opinions are my own.
This Bible belongs in every home, church and bible-study!When I reviewed Marilyn Chadwick’s book on prayer, “Sometimes he whispers, sometimes he roars,” http://tinyurl.com/73kewga the author recommended the “Hebrew-Greek, key word study bible,” for in-depth bible study.After I previewed the bible I understand and endorse her enthusiastic recommendation.
This amazing Bible, a complete King James English version, is several books in one that enables users to cross-reference the original languages the King James was translated from.
Plus the additional bible-study helps that include a “Concordance of Old and New Testaments,” and “Strong’s Hebrew dictionary of the Old and New Testament.
After some significantly unpleasant experiences with specific church people, took a long vacation.
Decided to come back after purging their manipulations, agendas, fear/ignorance, and decided to dig into this Book with as powerful (packed full of tools) meaty version I could.
Took me almost a year-and-a-half (not including the 10 year vacation) and have really enjoyed the Holman Reference and the most, this edition.
Absolutely the best tool to get closest to what the original text was trying to convey.
If you want an Evangelical/Baptist/Fundamentalist slant/flavor, the Ryrie Otherwise, this one or the Holman have the most of my confidence in this Book.
I have carried about six different Bibles since September 7, 1978.
My first "big" one was the Ryrie Study Bible.
Wonderful if you want insights that are particularly fundamental Baptist (my opinion).
Both wonderful, as was the Ryrie.
Now I carry this one.
I did my homework and wanted one that was as close to the original as possible.
I've been very happy with this as well as the specific translation.
If this was available in ESV, I would have purchased that translation instead.
You can be comfortable with the accuracy of this version and translation.
I appreciate, respect and need translations that do "adhere as closely as possible to the original languages (which are Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek) of the Holy Scriptures". I learned a lot of history and gained new insight thanks to each books introduction. At one to three chapters most days, it took me 18 months to read through this great study Bible. This is a hardcover edition I have though and the binding is coming undone unfortunately.
This is a great Bible. It has the Hebrew and Greek keywords for reference. It is very helpful when trying to understand the meaning of words. Funny story about this Bible... I accidently donated my first copy to the Salvation Army. Brooke bought me a new one for our wedding. Now I have to do my highlighting all over again!
Excellent. Very handy. Good interspersing of references to the Hebrew or Greek words underlying the English translation. It is good to challenge what you believed that the Bible was saying in English by the definitions of the words from the original language. Great Bible for studying how the English rendering has done justice to the original language!
This is the best Bible I have ever owned. Has Strong's numbering for most key words so with a concordinance in the back to review original meaning of words. I loved it so much got one for my daughter in Bible College.
My main Bible. This Bible is a Red Letter edition and includes Strong's Dictionaries, Concordance, Word Studies, Introductions, & Footnotes.You can look up meanings of specific words in the original Hebrew or Greek, very handy having it right in the back of my Bible.
Who doesn't like the Bible?!?! This is my favorite study version I have found because it has the original Greek or Hebrew in the back for extra insight. Very cool!
An excellent study Bible with underlying Hebrew-Greek meaning to words. Just a pity this still has the NASB77 translation and not the updated NASB95 translation.
I really dig this Bible! I never thought i would be leaning what words mean in their origianl text. I cant believe the word love has so many meanings!
Enjoy the NASB version - very much disliked the editor trying to sell me his books in the foot notes!! Will need to purchase a different edition of the NASB sometime in the future.
My Favorite translation, and the one I find most literal is the NASB. The keyword, Greek and Hebrew words are also very cool.
The NASB is a great translation of Scripture, highly accurate and wonderful to read.
This is my favorite Bible of ALL TIME! Unfortunately, I lost mine, but it is amazing if you like to dig into words, their origins, and meanings.
This version is an excellent study Bible! You will love it!
For the bible nerd who is a little rusty or not quite fluent enough for the Koine Greek or ancient Hebrew texts.
Good Bible, but I'm still not sure how the Greek is referenced.
This is my favorite Bible. Literal translation. Love the Greek and Hebrew reference. Study notes are great too. Would highly recommend.
