https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3064956-meetings-with-remarkable-men
they had stored this old book in a special section only to be taken out on request.
His life has resonation felt by both knowledgeable and ignorant.
All other books, you have to dig deep to find the beautiful.
However this book, is full of beauty.
However this book, is full of beauty.
Gurdjieff describes all the characters in the book that he met during his own travels.
The best part of this book (unlike rest of his books) is that Gurdjieff is not cryptic in telling tales.
I have read this book once, own this book now and will keep reading this book for all my life.
Besides, the knowledge of languages can in itself sometimes be useful.— page 117 — Tags: interestingThey sat down at the foot of the pyramid and I sat down not far away, so that I could distinctly hear all they were saying, and began to eat my chourek.The gentleman who had met us, and who turned out to be a prince, asked the professor among other things:"Are you really still disturbing the remains of people who died long ago, and collecting the utterly worthless rubbish supposedly once used in their stupid lives?""What would you?" answered the professor.
The shepherds came and called off the dogs, but only when they were at some distance did we risk standing up; and all the time they were moving away the rascals kept an eye on us.— pages 94-95
Look, I don't know much about Gurdjieff except that my library apparently subscribes to the newsletter, but this book was pretty good.
I don't know if it was the eye-opening wisdom tome Greg may have subconsciously suggested it was, but there were some good stories in there.
For instance, this is more or less how the "Pre-Sands Egypt" story goes:Chapter 1.
Here's a story about a dog.Chapter 3.
Here's a story about a dude.Chapter 4.
Here's a story about a prince.Chapter 4a.
Here's a story about a lady.Chapter 5.
Pre-sand Egypt was pretty awesome.
vabbè.poi porta con la sua vita e i suoi incontri, vita che possiamo riassumere nella pratica formula"a quel punto ho dovuto fare X in cui sono naturalmente esperto/diventato subito bravissimo/mi è venuto facile grazie alla mia esperienza" con X=qualsiasi campo dello scibile umano, dalle lingue al commercio (legale e truffaldino), dall'alpinismo alle arti marziali, dalle riparazioni (di cosa?
di tutto, ovviamente) ai tappeti.giuro, 400 pagine di autoincensazione continua, roba da lanciare il libro contro il muro mentre si ride allegramente.ah, quando non bastassero le sue capacità, ecco giungere gli "uomini straordinari" del titolo, tutti incredibilmente intelligenti e preparati, capaci di cambiar vita per andar dietro alle avventure del nostro oppure grandi maestri che aspettavano solo il suo arrivo per sciorinare grandi verità (quali?

Spirituality, adventure, wisdom, exotic places, grand ideas, wonderfully fresh worldviews...
there are so many things I enjoyed about this book.
" [...] I had always and everywhere, in all conditions and circumstances, to "remember myself" and to remember the task I had set myself, by the fulfillment of which I wished and still wish to justify the sense and aim of my life." - pg 301I relate to his need to wander, explore, learn, and overcome challenges.
I don't think every human is born with this hunger to do more and see more but I certainly think I share this quality with him.
I was reminded again about a book I read years ago in my teens. What a bloody remarkable man he was too!
if you've been looking for a book about feeding sand to livestock, this is your lucky day! you may also learn how to escape sandstorms using stilts.
It can also be seen as an ode to these remarkable men (and one woman and dog) Gurdjieff met and shaped his ideas during the course of his life - even though it is not sure whether these people and one dog truly existed or were made up by Gurdjieff.
Whenever the stories go into the direction of what these remarkable men truly taught him, Gurdjieff states he will explain this more in detail in a soon-to-be-written work.
To be fair, the first chapters devoted to his father, first tutor and substitution teacher state quite clearly how these men shaped Gurdjieff.
Review to follow.
From this point of view his later 'schools' might be considered flim-flam.His redeeming quality, though, is the fact he concentrated on what he wanted...
He employed his mind.
And there is some evidence that he also employed his emotional mind as well, although this occurs without his attention ...
He DID sense and respond to a visit with an enlightened man and often quotes him as the book progresses.He also employees a dry sense of humor ...
The view of the world from a Russian point of view is much different than our own.The book is a good read.
I read this book because Jacob Needleman is a follower of Gurdjieff, because I've always been curious about the man, and because I love books that have brief biographies of men, of friendships, whatever.
Gurdjieff definitely had an adventurous and interesting life (if all this is true), and met some fascinating people.
But whenever he got to the point of delivering their message, which to me was the whole point of the book, he would claim he was saving it for some other book, where he is finally going to explain things.
In that way, I don't see why he wrote this one.
The second series of Gurdjieff's writings, Meetings with Remarkable Men was written, in Gurdjieff's words, "to acquaint the reader with the material required for a new creation and to prove the soundness and good quality of it." On one level, it may be read as an account of one man's adventures. On another, it may be read as an allegory, a sort of Pilgrim's Progress for the 20th century. Either way, it is an engaging effort, and will be of use to anyone wishing to learn more about G.I. Gurdjieff and the Work.
wisdom is out there - seek it!
Taught me to see how remarkable people are and to look for other remarkable men from the past and present
I started this book as I finally found a chance to have it and read it.
Gurdjieff's writing style is like reading a historian's notes on trips.
It was a pleasure to read the account of his life in different parts of Asia and Europe.
The book is finalized with notes written in the US.
I'd also state that, every person should write a book like that in their life, to be preserved for future generations for accounts of how they lived and what was happening at certain time in a certain place.
Basically, you follow a story of a young Gurdjieff, not listening to opinions of educated persons on pseudo-scientific wonders of a young mind, but instead dismissing them as not wide/deep enough and then finding some drunk guys who share the same views and call them remarkable.
For example how it's possible that after a long drought period some folks made a religious ceremony and suddenly heavy rain.
Young/old Gurdjieff don't think so.
Because he said around 100 times in the book how well educated and informed on the matter of science he is.
The positive aspect of the book is the interesting description of lives and traditions of his region.
At the onset , i do not know much about Gurdjieff.
Reason to pick this book was to get to know him and the ideas he represent.
On the first part the book does well where one gets to know him as an individual and his journey(although all characters mentioned are not as impactfull).
But about his ideas this book talks very less and in parts scattered all over.
The story is inspiring to an extent where it pushes for an invard journey no matter what are ones' external circumstances.
Still i was looking for more, i mean beyond anecdotes, something more profound.
In this volume, Gurdjieff recounts men he’s met throughout his life that he regards as remarkable. Although some of the accounts sound a little exaggerated, if even only half of each such tale was true, the adjective remarkable would not be. And when he described, having heard a tale passed by generations of storytellers to and including his father was the same as the subsequently uncovered and translated Epic of Gilgamesh, it gives one cause to reflect on the ability of mankind, in the pre-literate age, to accurately record and pass on stories from human memory alone.
А тези нишки проблясват в неговите приключения със Забележителните Човеци, които изиграват същинска роля в неговото израстване и търсене на истината за Смисъла на Живота и за Първопричините на всичко.
Свързвайки пътищата на всеки от своите спътници и другари, Гурджиев постепенно формира своята концепция за "Работата" или "Четвъртия път" - път, в който Свръхчовекът е Едно и работи със всички свои центрове в един хармоничен танц и съзерцание.Отговорите не идват от нищото или случайностите.
Гурджиев бива възнаграден за смелостта и търпението си, за всички експедиции и опасни пътувания, които е предприемал в своята младост и юношество.
Great book, the amazing stories of gurdjieff and his fellow companions motivate yourself to find your inner self and do great things, i have read this book at the age of 18 and it motivated me to do many great things. Gurdjieff is kind of person which can guide you through light, but be careful dont believe everything you read ;)
Mi vergogno a dare una stella, quindi ne do due solo perché spero che leggendo altri libri di GG cambierò idea: a me è sembrata una lista della spesa! Un libro, un elenco di fatti e di persone e soprattutto un continuo rimandare ad un’opera futura tutte le spiegazioni. Non mi è piaciuto affatto!
Interesting at times, but only at times.
One of the best tall tales I've ever read. But inspiring and wonderful nevertheless!
Djdhdd
Some of my favorite excerpts: On journalismp.18-p.20 "This form of literature has become very widespread in recent times because, according to my unshakable conviction, it answers more completely than anything else to the weaknesses and demands which lead to the ever-increasing will-lessness of man.
"To our common misfortune, this journalistic literature, which is becoming more widespread in the life of people year by year, weakens the already weakened mind of man still more by laying it open without resistance to all kinds of deceit and delusion, and leads it astray from relatively well-founded thinking, thus stimulating in people, instead of sane judgement, various unworthy properties, such as incredulity, indignation, fear, false shame, hypocrisy, pride and so on and so forth.
On surface, the book is boring, written in an off-putting manner and Gurdjieff seems to ramble on endlessly on subjects out of which the reader is unable to fathom their importance.
While this is the case to some extent, once you get inside Gurdjieff’s writing style, it’s hidden depth becomes clearer for the reader.
Nevertheless, this is not an easy read, as the reader needs to stay focused throughout the whole novel in order to catch even the faintest of glimpses of meaning woven in to the text.
This is the case even after getting used to the style of the novel, as even after that it stays somewhat boring.
unfortunately Gurdjieff never completed the promised 2nd and 3rd volumes of his "all and everything" series.
This book is a posthumously arranged short collection of lectures arranged by his followers.Reading the 3 books in this "series" as it exists today is really sad because you see a man trying to accomplish something great and failing.Near the end of this book, Gurdjieff basically says: "if I don't succeed in this next fund-raising endeavor [for his cult], I will stop writing and just drink and carouse with women for the rest of my life." And I'm assuming that's what happened.
I really enjoyed reading this book which describes some of the daring and perilous expeditions Gurdjieff undertook with his closest friends through various regions of the Caucasus, Central Asia, Egypt, Turkey, and ultimately Europe and the US.
The book isn't about his occult teachings, which is something I'm not interested in anyway.
What is shared with the reader here is the life of the man, his achievements, insights on contemporary societies, as well as his personal struggles.
Gurdjieff also relates how he established a few businesses in various Asian and European cities, which I found hugely entertaining.In short if you're interested in the life of Gurdjieff rather than his teachings, then I highly recommend reading this book.
