https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1954212.I_Can_Jump_Puddles
I first read Alan Marshall's autobiography of his childhood - I Can Jump Puddles (1955) as part of the school curriculum in early high school.
Marshall bring his childhood in rural Victoria ('Turalla') in the early 20th century - with its colourful characters in a time before cars and electricity - to vivid life.
Yet, despite these lacuna - I Can Jump Puddles was an engaging read made more special by my old 1955 edition with its simple but delightful illustrations by Alan Forbes.A wonderful recreation of a bygone era that evoked some faint echoes of my own childhood in outback Queensland over a half-century later.
В търсенето на щастието човек се обогатява, защото то развива у него характер, чиято постоянна черта е радостта от живота.“Книгата е автобиографична и се отнася за периода на младите години на Алън Маршал - детството, през което се разболява от детски паралич, и младежките му години - през 20-те години на миналия век в Австралия.
Прочетох, че Маршал се възприема като австралийския Марк Твен и това ме привлече към запознанство с творчеството му.
Действително има общи неща с Марк Твен - най-вече в идеалистичното му отношение към света и хората, в търсенето на справедливост, в приемането на различните и в умението да гледаш на всичко с чувство за хумор.Книгата повдига духа.
When I first came to Australia I don’t think there was a school in the country that didn’t have a class set of this book.
For some reason the story of a little boy overcoming the effects of polio, despite or maybe because I too had suffered contracting that disease albeit, not as badly as Alan Marshal, didn’t appeal.
As Marshal himself said, he didn’t set out to tell the story of a little boy overcoming and contending with the effects of polio but wanted to portray Australia at the time of his boyhood on the cusp of change.
This was one of our obligatory high school reads. My best friend's mother was crippled with polio and during the 60's in Sydney you would still see kids in primary schools in calipers. An inspiring book.
I first read I Can Jump Puddles in my childhood, but if asked, I couldn’t honestly tell you what it was about other than the autobiography of a child who had survived polio.Challenge 6, from Sue over on Doddyaboutbooks calls for a book which features a character with a chronic illness or disability, and as I’m looking at expanding my school’s collection of Australia classics, it seemed the ideal time to revisit I Can Jump Puddles.You can read my full review here
I wanted to buy this from Scholastic Books when I was in Year 3 but the librarian told me it was for 6th graders and I was too young for it. So I bought something else instead... and borrowed it at the end of the week. I kept borrowing it for many years. I absolutely loved it. Alan Marshall was one of my childhood heroes. I'm glad that I eventually found my own copy of it. But I wish that librarian hadn't discouraged me.
Okay--so I read this in a Reader's Digest Condensed book, so it certainly was not very long. I enjoyed it--a memior written by a man who was partially paralyzed from polio, and lived in the Australian outback. He refused to limit himself because of his paralysis and shares some wonderful memories from his young life.
A sweet book about a boy growing up in Australia during the turn of the century. Really loved living in this world if only for a moment. In ways it was a condensed boys version of Anne of Green Gables.
True he was working with actual real people, which would've made it easier.
But, still, these people were great.
I loved the feeling of hope throughout the book.
The way he wrote about trying to make the adults see that he was happy, but never quite being able to - it was so poignant.
It made me reflect on the way I view people with a disability.
And everyone always called him brave, but he didn't feel brave.
He was just living in this world, the way everyone else was.
Just a really delightful book, and I feel better at having read it.
The book is based upon the author's childhood, which makes it an even more interesting read.
The spirit of Alan hardly ever wavers despite the attitude of people around him.
His father is a strong character throughout the story; showing concern yet a rock of belief and faith in what his son can achieve.
Other characters that pop into the story come for a short time but hold a strong impact on Alan's development.
Alan knows the way he deserves to be treated and does not settle for less than that.
That alone makes him brave.
I loved this story.
I started reading this book during a summer day when i was around 10 yrs old. I remember few things from the book but i still can remember the sensation of reading it. It was motivational book which helped me with self esteem, with a lot of new words to my vocabulary (i didn't know what a siluete meant) at that time and also lot of knowledge such as geographical (it talks a lot abt the nature in Australia) and about fauna. A MUST!
it was really hard to get into but once i picked up the audio book (which was incredible, highly recommend) version it was much easier to read. it was a nice, real and uplifting story (especially for someone who has struggled with health problems in the past) that gave me a break from my fantasy worlds
listened to the audiobook, found the background music very distracting. apart from that it was an okay story.
It is an interesting book about how Alan faces his troubles in his everyday life, such as: horse riding, running, fishing, fighting, hunting, swimming and many more things.In this novel we find that after a lot of strong determination Alan finally achieves his goals, even though it was harder for him than most other children.
Like any father, Alan’s dad believed that his son could do anything he set his mind to and always let him try new things without treating him any differently.
Alan’s mum was quiet and was always worrying about Alan, not really wanting him to try new things that children his age would be doing.
I think I only gave it four stars because I read the book of the year just prior.
I grew up as a free-ranging bush kid, and I try and give my son as much freedom as he can cope with, but even so, I was amazed.
In a way, his disability became almost secondary, only really surfacing when he returned to adults, who he found baffling, because they pitied him and treated him as a sick, frail little boy.Allan Marshall is a brilliant, vivid writer who uses plain English and tells it like it is.
This sweet and truthful story talks about Alan's challenges in becoming a person who could forget about his own disabilities.This book was written in 1955 and therefore encases an older style of writing which is sometimes hard to follow.
The book goes on about Alan's struggles and how he didn't want anyone to see him or treat him differently to anyone else which I thought was quite valiant of him (I know I would most probably have felt sorry for myself in his position).Alan Marshall has written a timeless true story of his life as a child in a delightful format.
Though the story may be hard to read at times, it remains a classic.
I Can Jump Puddles: an autobiography of Alan Marshall's childhood and an Australian classic.
Rather Alan Marshall's tale was a truly inspiring one where he accomplished incredible feats that left me feeling utterly amazed.
I have always respected and praised individuals who have achieved great feats and accomplishments despite their disabilities and other disadvantages, but Alan Marshall's story brought a whole new meaning to the word inspiring.
The stories Alan shared of his childhood were entertaining and enthralled me from the beginning, with genuineness and charming descriptions of the Australian bush so familiar to me.
Overall, I Can Jump Puddles is an absolutely incredible story that I believe is well worth the read.4/5 stars.
Considered an Aussie classic - life of a boy with polio in country Victoria in the 1910's-20's.Alan was born in 1902 and this book covers his life from ~8 years to ~18 and finishes with Alan being accepted into a scholarship for accountancy.
Snippets of life in a changing time (post WW1 - industrialisation and cars changing the way life works in the country) make for an interesting look at things - interestingly WW1 seems to not have any impression on young Alan.
I had high expectations of this book - mostly because it gets compared to A Fortunate life by AB Facey; a book that totally blew me away - and I was a bit disappointed.
В действительности многое зависит только от способности человека воспринимать окружающий его мир.
Если видеть грязь и невзгоды, значит ничего другого разглядеть не получится, а если знать про существование верных друзей, мудрых родителей, хороших людей, то среди них не получится обнаружить сторонников негативного понимания жизни.
Разве Австралия может считаться образцом для подражания, где к человеку относятся как к человеку?
Судя по мнению Алана Маршалла — может.
Если брать для рассмотрения творчество иных австралийских писателей — всё обстоит с точностью до наоборот.
Соответственно и читатель, в зависимости от присущей ему способности мыслить, примет книгу «Я умею прыгать через лужи», поверив писателю, либо усомнившись в правдивости приведённых в тексте слов.(c) Trounin
this is the story of a the author himself as a little boy, who suffered from infantile paralysis, and his determination to fit in and live a normal life regardless. i have read this book several times now over my lifetime and have enjoyed it immensely each time.set in australia, the language used is quite descriptive of the life and land of the time. the determination shown by the boy encourages one to battle on and be thankful for what we have.
I just twisted my ankle and was feeling sorry for myself. After reading Marshall's fictionalised autobiography I feel embarrassed. Marshall tells of his childhood with polio living in Western Victoria. Never did he feel sorry for himself, complain or find reasons for not doing what any other child was doing. At the same time he shows great empathy to the battling farmers, swaggies and families of the district in the pre-War WWI years,
I loved this book because the writer is so honest. He contracts polio as a child, but never really grasps that he won't be able to walk again. He simply goes about finding new ways of getting around. He's courageous with not a shred of self-pity. And his descriptions of life on a sheep station in Australia give a really good sense of the time. Recommended for readers who like memoir, travel writing (because it's set in Australia) and stories of quiet heroism.
Australia in the early 1900s when polio was still common. Children don't 'struggle to over come' they are participants and that is exactly what this author portrays. He was a keen observer and participant in the rural life he grew up in. He used crutches and still entered foot races because that was what the others did.
This is the memoir of a young boy, Alan Marshall, who contracted infantile paralysis in early 20th century rural Australia. However, he refuses to let himself be limited by his disability. He finds a way to get around on crutches and even teaches himself to swim and ride. It offers an inspirational story about someone who doesn't allow his condition to define his life.
Will I ever stop falling madly in love with these 'pocket of life' stories, especially those set in the pre-war Australian Outback? I suppose the only way to find out is to keep reading them forever and ever.Also thank you, Alan Marshall, for giving me a word to describe the noise a possum makes: chirring. Perfection.
this was an okay book, the dialogue was good but barely anyone spoke which made it boring, but when they did it was interestingi think there's too much descriptive langauge and waaaaaay too much horse talk i don't know what a canter is
I started this many months ago and finally picked it up to finish. It's actually pretty good. Alan Marshall was an inspiring person who didn't know the meaning of the word 'adversity.' His description of learning to ride a horse without the use of his legs is amazing.
I can jump puddles is an inspirational story of a child afflicted with polio. His indomitable spirit and inability to see hismself as having a disability are remarkable. A beautiful story told in an engaging manner.
Very interesting story of Alan Marshall's childhood. I'd read snippets of this in a few English classes but it was nice to read the whole book. It was inspirational and his viewpoint of his disabilities was positive and motivational.
Moving, inspiring and funny. This is Alan Marshall's autobiographical account of his childhood. Crippled by polio, it never occurs to him that he can't do the things the other children can. I first read this in school, but am glad I read it again.
