https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95127.Down_These_Mean_Streets
Malcolm wrote from a place of self-assurance, I get the sense that Piri never had that assurance (even in his Afterword written 30 years later) and also Malcolm also had Alex Haley to help him with his writing, Piri's voice is rawer and that gives it its own timbre that is worth listening for.I want to teach this in a class with Black Boy and The Autobiography of Malcolm X and Notes from the Underground.
I'm too lazy to write a review of this. It's amazing, and also necessary. That is all.
Piri Thomas is a young boy who grows up in Harlem and has to face various obstacles and is forced to make vital decisions that will ultimately take a toll on his future.
I’d say about half of the Puerto Rican population would be offended by it and the other half would be able to relate to the events in this book.
But most of it I can relate to, being Puerto Rican and growing up in Harlem.
This is a great book no doubt, but different people would have different reactions to it.
The main characters of this book were Piri Thomas, his family, and his girlfriend Trina.
This book is a true story about a guy, Piri Thomas growing up and facing many problems.
An internal problem that Piri faces is that he isn't sure if he should go on with the criminal scence to get money.
Everyone "judges a book by its cover." No one waits to know the person and their natiionality before just saying you're black or white.
I liked it because it was a true story about a life if a dark puerto rican growing up in spanish Harlem facing a lot of different problems.
This was required reading for class but it was a good read. I don’t even know how to review this because its in no way the perfect book, but it so interesting to look at how Piri deals with his masculinity and his race (or denial of his race, if you will) and so many other issues. Also this book sadly says a lot about us latinxs. I don’t really know what else to say... cksfjfkdj. It’s a quick read, so if you’re interested in Nuyorican identity/Piri’s life then give it a go.
3.5 stars
Piri Thomas was a 12 years old kid who lived in the Spanish Harlem of New York.
And from there, Piri has been dealing with a lot of trouble.This book puts you into the shoes of Piri Thomas.
He never really showed Piri and his family that he loved them, but when Piri was in a lot of trouble, he did everything to help Piri out in time of need.
Even though he showed it in a rough way, he stilled loved his family.This book is full of many more thriving situations.
This book talks about a young boy who goes through many problems in his life and tries to overcome it by changing his ways.
I liked the way the author incorporated his spanish slang into it.
In the beginning i truly did like the character, but after getting deeper and deeper into the book, i realized the character was changing to fit in.
I recommend this book to people who are hispanic and go through problems as a young kid.
People who can relate to Piri in the sense that Piri was only about 10 when his life began to go down hill.
The book Down These Mean Streets is a memoir about a young Puerto Rican, named Piri Thomas, growing up in New York City.
Piri goes through most of the book arguing with himself whether he is a dark skinned Puerto Rican or black like society says he is.This book teaches a valuable lesson to young teenagers, that if you choose the same lifestyle Piri lived, you will regret many things.
I liked that i could relate to the book as a young hispanic growing up in the same city, but i felt like the book got boring in the middle.
The main character Piri Thomas has an anger problem and grows up showing lots of violence that eventually lands him in jail.
One of the central problems in this book is family trouble.
Piri as a young boy feels that his father in some way doesn't love him.
Piri's anger problem lands him in jail for 6 years and his family ultimately becomes ashamed of him.
This book walks you through the life of a boy growing into a man and the things he had to go through to get there.
I would reccommend this book to young boys who are becoming men.
The main character Piri has problems throughout the book with trusting and making executive decisions.
The book is interesting in many ways because the author shows a time where there was a lot of prejudice people and how people reacted it to it.
The book affected me in which a Puerto Rican kid struggled to overcome prejudice times.
The book relates to me in which I am a Puerto Rican kid and even today people still have prejudice minds against different people.
I would recommend the book to all people because everyone can be prejudice to peoples.
This book is a memoir about a kid growing up in spanish Harlem.This book takes place in Spanish Harlem, the main character Piri he has problems with his father and having difficult time to connect.This book is fairly good and interesting to read mainly because this book has a lot of drama and Piri wants to solve his problems without any help from anyone.This book affected me in many ways because Piri started smoking and joined a gang which surprised me.
This sort of relates to other people because people makes many mistakes in they're in a very short amount of time.
Piri is likable because he goes through a lot and makes bad decisions because he doesn't have a role model to follow.
I didn't particularly like this book...
Piri finds, even at a rather young age, that he has to fight to show his strength and bravery.
Piri is often faced with tough issues like racism, being caught in the middle between his Puerto Rican blood, and his appearance of being black.
He later moves out and is faced with more and more dangerous issues like dealing and using drugs, and armed robbery.
This book is a door into things that to me, were never given in a real context or perspective.
I was sick last week so I picked up some light uplifting reading at the library for an extended stay in bed.
Piri Thomas' Down These Mean Streets, being one of the books.
I'd read it years ago, and then was recently reminded of it by a fellow goodreader, so I decided to try it again.
But it's Thomas' ability to look within, to ask the hard questions, and to know the answers when he feels their truth that really make his book what it is – a defining depiction of a time, place, and consciousness.
This is a great book, i enjoy reading it,because it makes me wonder whats going to happen next and k
The book takes place in 1940's Spanish Harlem.
This tells of his struggle with poverty that leads him to do drugs.
Also he was involved in a gang when he was young, which put him in jail more than once.
After being put into jail many times while in there he used it as rehabilitation, promising to change his ways and help others who went through what he did.In general the book was good and the story was very well told by Piri Thomas.
But the ending of the book, he could have done an extra chapter of after he changed years after
In Down These Mean streets I learned that it takes a lot of work to notice your mistakes.
In the book piri learned from his mistakes becuase he went to jail and then realize that what he did was terrible.
I would say that he grew as a person, that he would'nt do the same thing again.
This book made me realize that I should'nt do what he did so I won't get thrown in jail.
I would recommed this book to evey person because it help me and it will help anybody else.
I really like this book and everybody should read this book.
Chevere.Took me forever to find this one, but glad it stayed on my list for so long. It was somewhat different than I had expected -- I imagined it to be more 'about the streets,' all drugs and crime and dirty old New York. Instead, the book is about race and identity and coming of age, and it's got a disarmingly honest, straightforward tone that made it fly by.Need to find out what happened to Piri after his return from prison, all I really got was what the author bio told me.
The book "Down These Mean Streets" was the first book I've read about a kid like Piri Thomas. Piri was going through poverty and racism. The book cover reminded me of Brooklyn that's why I chose it. Honestly, there were some parts where the same events happened constantly. There were some thrilling events. I wouldn't find myself reading another book like this one. It was mostly about drugs, street fighting, and robbery.
When I picked up this book at the bookstore, I could not put it down. I walked out the store with the book open and finished reading this book a few days later. All the stories of Piri's youth pulled me into his world. I felt as though I was the one growing up during his time. There were many themes that I could personally relate to, themes of prejudice, racism and struggle. This book is surely a book that will make you feel his joy and pain.
HEY MY NAME IS TANEYSHA AND I LOVE TO READ.THIS BOOK I READ WAS IN DETENTION ONE DAY CUZ IT LOOK MAD INTERESTING FROM THE COVER THE WAY THE STREET LOOKS.ALSO THIS BOOK SHOWS TO MUCH BAD LANGUAGE WORDS THAT I USE WHEN I AM MAD.THIS BOOK SHOWS YOU THE BAD WAY TO SOLVE PROBLEMS. I WOULD NEVER SOLVE PROBLEMS THAT WAY LIKE CRUSING AND OTHER STUFF.WOULD YOU SLOVE PROBLEMS LIKE THAT BY CRUSING OUT A PRESON? CRAZY!!!!!!!!
The book was ok. I don't agree with the "fight hate with hate" mentality. The story is ok, but who knows how much is true. A autobiography from a guy that obviously had identity issues. And blamed everyone else. In trying to prove how "tough" he was.... He only proved how weak he is. It seems he may have figured that out later in life.
I picked this book to finish out my reading challenge. Turned out to be one of my favorites. It's very real and the characters are well defined. There is some strong language, so when I used excerpts from it, I had to mark out some words. Very relatable text for urban kids, even though it is almost 50 years old.
Compelling and with incredible relevance,Thomas' portrait of the trials inherent in minority racial identity and hetero-masculinity in the U.S. is profound. However, the work is unapologetic in its rampant misogyny, making it an important read, but not an inspiring one.
Loved this memoir. The writing is not great but I love that it is not great. I feel like I sat down and Piri told me his story. I love that it was overly edited and Piri's voice come through loud and clear.
Even if you weren’t able to connect to the events happening in the book, like I was, you were still able to feel and know what Piri was thinking.
You feel bad for him because you want him to escape this life and succeed so badly but don’t at the same time.
The book started off with Piri’s childhood and followed him through his life journey from his mother’s death, moving back to Harlem, drugs, gangs, girls, robbery, shootings, and eventually prison.
After prison Piri emphasizes that above everything we need to learn how to love.
Thomas tries to ignore them and stay away for a while, until one day he was sick of it and approached these "bully like" kids.
As he gets back to Spanish Harlem Thomas is sadly told that his mother has been sick.
After his mothers death, Thomas goes back to Long Island to live with his father.
Trina was actually a girl He met in Harlem, was the only thing that was helping him get through that boring, horrible, terrifying stay at that jail.
I mean, everyone's a little bit racist/prejudiced/ignorant sometimes--that's just the human condition, but it seems like there's a huge difference between the attitudes and the way people were treated and perceived back then versus now.
Swearing and racial slurs might put some people up in arms, but I feel it was totally necessary in order to preserve the integrity of the story.) A friend wanted to know if this would be a good book for her high school class to read, but i'm torn on that one.
It took me more than 40 years to finally get to read Down These Mean Streets.
A shame, as it truly is one of the most powerful novels of the time and that generation.
What is amazing is that the story of poverty and wealth inequality the author outlined in his coming of age story in the streets of Spanish Harlem still resonates today.
A great author.
I saw the author present at a conference in the city sometime after the millennium.
I wish I could have appreciated the significance of his work then.
This is a great book all should read!
Finished re-reading Down These Mean Streets, by Piri Thomas, this morning. I love this book! One of my favorites. A loving, honest, brutal and tender coming of age story about a young Afro-Latino coming of age in Harlem, NYC during the depression. So long ago but many things remain the same. A powerful depiction of the beauty and challenge of being of one people, looking like another and loving both with your heart and soul. I highly recommend this book! Chèvre ❤️
