https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167847.Marooned_in_Realtime
Vinge had already used the concept of stasis fields, called bobbles, as a one-way time machine to the future to good effect in his “The Peace War”.
Wil ends up at a 25-million year future staging point for people bobbling forward over the span of three centuries before the Singularity.
The leader of a high tech faction, Yelen Korolev, is starting a colony to rebuild the race and needs to recruit at least 100 more people to reach the 300 required for sufficient genetic diversity to assure success in rebooting humanity.
One high-tech faction wants to bobble along into the future like tourists and keep going to witness the end of the universe.

There's no rule that a novel has to take place in the future of this particular timeline, after all.The story is that of Wil Brierson, a cop from the 21st century who is shanghaied into the future, past a mysterious event that wipes out almost the entire human race.
It gets more complex, and hard to describe - essentially, humans can put themselves in stasis for any amount of time.
They decide on 50 million years in the future - a place in time where one bobble known to contain almost 150 people is known to be scheduled to open.
Surprise one was that it didn't do what sequels normally do: follow up on the foreshadowed crises of the last book.
Vinge gave consideration to the repercussions of the technological introductions he made in the first book.
Vinge obviously gave his technology a lot of thought, and the resulting world we get is full of novel ramifications and possibilities that weren't even under consideration as of the last book.
Besides the technological repercussions following from the first book, there was little here that suggested passion, scrutiny, or delight on the part of the author.
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #364.
First, I read it as part of Across Realtime (an omnibus of The Peace War, The Ungoverned and Marooned In Realtime).
There's so much more going on than a number of people with grudges against the victim, and more to the resolution than finding the killer.And because there's so much more, the book goes a bit beyond the naming of the murderer - and yet leaves so many other things unfinished.So, SF mystery readers may prefer to read Marooned In Realtime by itself rather than part of Across Realtime.
And it may appeal more to those who like greater complexity.
(For science-fiction aficionados, these are similar to the Slaver stasis fields in Larry Niven's Known Space books.) Bobbles were used to send a variety of people into the future: investors who wanted to "instantly" get rich by taking advantage of centuries of economic growth, criminals who were punished by the ultimate exile from everything dear to them, and even terrorists who thought they could win in the future even if defeated in the present.
Human beings perhaps evolved to some other plane, and no longer needed to maintain a residence on Earth.In an afterword, Vinge says that his novel sets a possible singularity as far off as the mid-23rd century for the sake of storytelling, but he believes that many of the initial readers of MAROONED IN REALTIME will witness the singularity.
In the Peace War Vinge introduced us to the bobble and showed how it completely transformed / destroyed society.
In Marooned, that entire episode in human history has gone, and we are now travelling with a bunch of survivors from and Earth that was destroyed in some mysterious fashion (none of the survivors know how), towards an unknown future using the same technology as a lifeboat.In the midst of this, as people bobble in and out for thousands of years at a time, we have a murder to solve and a detective to figure out who did it and why.
Only three hundred humans left on earth. A murder mystery across fifty million years. A meditation on deep time and evolution, on civilization and intelligence.What more could you want?A very good book.
Marooned in Realtime takes the premise, ideas and some of the characters established in The Peace War and expands on them to create a fascinating novel which is much better than its predecessor in terms of pacing and character development.
Wil Brierson is a "low-tech" (basically an ordinary citizen like you and me) who served as a cop in a previous life, 50 million years ago (!), and is tasked with solving the murder of a "high-tech", (a member of society with above-average technological capabilities and resources) who was left stranded in realtime through sabotage, eventually to die.
Realtime, as opposed to Bobbletime, the stasis fields used by the last remnants of humanity in order to gallop through the ages, unaffected by time.
Nice to go back and revisit a favorite book from when I was younger. Great central SF concept, somewhat interesting mystery, fairly uninteresting characters. Probably 3.5 stars for me.
Vernor Vinge is one of the greats of SF, and the line between where he was worthy of that title and where he was an okay author with a some really cool ideas is right between the The Peace War and Marooned in Realtime.
Of course, it should be noted that the book DOES spoil the Peace War, so if you do think you might read both, you probably should do it in order, but if you read only one, read this one.
It is ironic that I read the The Peace War by Vinge so that I could read this book, a sequel, because I heard that this book was great.
But I liked the Peace War much more.
Nevertheless it was a good read, and after reaching the mid point, I could not put the book down.Of course, the Singularity plays a large role in this story, larger than in the others of his works I have read.
His future back in the 1980s is still our future in 2011.I came to this book and Peace War after loving A Deepness in the Sky and A Fire Upon the Deep.
Why I Reread This Book: I enjoyed rereading  The Peace War  for the SFDG.Wow. An amazing work indeed.The Bobble series (for want of a better label) consists of The Peace War, a novella titled "The Ungoverned", and the present book. I reread "The Ungoverned" just before this, and I'm glad I did; it introduces the protagonist, Wil Brierson.When I first read this book, which I believe I did shortly after it first was first published, I loved it for the ideas but didn't see it as strongly connected
for the SFDG.Wow. An amazing work indeed.The Bobble series (for want of a better label) consists of The Peace War, a novella titled "The Ungoverned", and the present book.
I reread "The Ungoverned" just before this, and I'm glad I did; it introduces the protagonist, Wil Brierson.When I first read this book, which I believe I did shortly after it first was first published, I loved it for the ideas but didn't see it as strongly connected to The Peace War. That's not a bad thing, necessarily; I liked the fact that this book, and Orson Scott Card's 
A private investigator is bobbled in to the future by a panicked criminal.
Years later (in what feels like moments later to him) he finds himself in a world where all but a couple hundred of the human race have been destroyed or disappeared.
While bobbling ahead to await the opening of a massive bobble that has kept another hundred or so people in stasis since the 21st century (and therefore provide a large enough genetic pool to re-start the human race) one of the two organizers of humanity's last best hope is trapped outside of the her bobble and forced to live the remaining years of her life alone and without technology.
The mechanism is called bobbling and it puts a whole area and everything inside it in statis .
At the present is this book, the world is empty except for about about 300 survivors from before 2300, when humanity seems to have disappeared.
Then added to the science fiction, there is a murder mystery when one of the most important high techs, Marta is marooned in the real time while the rest of the settlement is bobbled forward.
This did happen so she died and she left a diary of her life.
Definitely should be read with — and after — the somewhat better  The Peace War , which takes place in the same timestream and introduces some elements important to this book. The novella The Ungoverned (online here) connects that earlier book and introduces the central character used here. All three are in the compendium  Across Realtime .This one is a detective story that takes place in the far, far distant future, long after most of humanity has mysteriously disappeared. The surviving remnant
, which takes place in the same timestream and introduces some elements important to this book.
The novella The Ungoverned (online here) connects that earlier book and introduces the central character used here.
Across Realtime
.This one is a detective story that takes place in the far, far distant future, long after most of humanity has mysteriously disappeared.
Vinge is old-school SciFi, and his cardboard characters show it.For those in the San Francisco bay area: Borderlands Bookstore's Science Fiction and Fantasy Book Club met on Sunday, 20 November, 2010, at 6 pm to discuss Marooned in Realtime.­
This novel is published both as a singleton and in the omnibus edition Across Realtime together with its prequel The Peace War.The sequel to “The Peace War” jumps 50 million years into the future.
The 300 remaining humans travel forward through the eons with Bobbles, the invulnerable stasis fields introduced in “The Peace War”.
This book is absolutely fantastic.
Some wish to recreate the human race now that enough people are simultanously “in realtime” (not in stasis).
Some with to travel forward through the eons and see what awaits at the end of the universe.
What a ride!http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=321
Other reviewers on this site have done a fine job describing the plot of this seminal book. I would instead like to provide links to a short essay I recently wrote about the intellectual path that took author Vernor Vinge to his discovery of the "Singularity," a concept he first popularized in this novel: http://ramshacklevampire.blogspot.com...I've also composed a timeline of the events in MAROONED IN REALTIME, THE PEACE WAR, and "The Ungoverned," which appears here: http://ramshacklevampire.blogspot.com...Comments, here or at the links, are welcome.
I am a big fan of Vernor Vinge, but - having said that - I was disappointed when I first read The Peace War. Marooned in Real Time is set in the same universe as The Peace War, but is a far better piece; Vinge returns to his style of big ideas and detailed exploration of technology and its implications for human society. It combines a post-apocalyptic-survivor and a detective-murder-mystery story to very pleasing results.
Great fiction from an accomplished writer. It is not a Fire Upon The Deep, but it is still an extremely compelling and rather fast read. Armchair detective novel - except with statis based time travel.
Fantastic book, loved all the far-future implications of bobbles. The plot is a high-tech mystery/adventure set fifty million years in the future and Vinge keeps you on your toes.
In this book, we get the same magic device, but in a murder mystery, set billions of years into the future, and now everything's WEIRD!My past encounters with "What will we become" have been dominated by Robert Reed, who puts out 4 stories and a novel every four days, much of it exploring the super-future, and I find it a bit boring when the characters spend 90% of a story aiming weapons systems that are so powerful you Wouldn't!
This novel length story reads like a novella, it's so quick it flashes by.
I give the book 5 or 6 stars for prescient observations.
Having not read the first book, "The Peace Wars" I found the concept of the bobbles poorly explained.
Which is: the bobbles enable humans to exist in stasis, outside of time indefinitely, until they decide to come out.
What follows is a story that takes place not entirely in real time, since factions have their own bobbles it is hard to keep track of how they ever find each other again.
but the mostly story doesn't anchor in real time.
Hard to read at times.
Marooned in Realtime (Across Realtime, #2) by Vernor Vinge A murder mystery 5o million years in the making.
What happens when anyone can simply bobble a few thousand, or even millions of years into the future?And what did happen during the 23 Century to make humanity go extinct?!But most importantly, who murdered Marts?!We have a new set of heroes and villains, and one old friend who may be both.
Vinge does a very credible job of positing humans who are so technologically advanced so as to seem like gods.
Happily, they are in the minority, but the low techs are still silly humans too.
with SiFi time travel via "bubbles" in time-stasis that open up whenever you decide, thus you are now in the future.
This may be a similarity of character type common to the genre (this type of reading for me is for half-concentration on the beach or the plane).
I can't get over the shortsightedness of utopia-explorers always looking for a more perfect world (in or out of time travel) who somehow think the problems of mankind dissolve in a different era because the bad influences (people, government, politics) have been conquered.
Vernor Vinge writes pretty imaginative and (to me) unusual SciFi books, and this one was no exception.
It's the second part of the series, but it's all much later than the first book, by thousands (millions?) of years.
Something (humans?
We never know for sure) all but destroyed the human race, and now they're close to finalizing that act.
But mixed with that is a simple murder mystery to occupy our interest until the end.I found it to be thoughtful and interesting, like most of his books.
In this story, he expands the concept of the bobbles introduced in the last book, and they are used in ways you might never expect.
This was an interesting follow on from the first book in the series. At times it was hard to see where it was going. People had used the bobbles, which are a space-time stasis to move themselves into the far future, long past the time when most of humanity had died out. Ultimately this is a murder mystery that needed to be solved and it did get solved. It was a bit long winded as to how it did how ever. But I think both books by Vinge should be read.
I enjoyed this immensely! I did not read the first one in the series, so it took a little time to understand what was being played out, but it was like a read from the Golden Age: an old fashioned whodunit with intriguing surroundings and characters the reader cares about!
More great imaginative writing from Vernor VingeI'm a sucker for a good mystery and this book delivered. Throw in a little sci-if and Mr Vinge's imagination and you have a wonderful novel that keeps you thinking long after you finish the book.
