https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574064.Not_Under_the_Law
I read mostly my great aunt's editions from the 30s and my mother editions from the 70s, but when I was a teenager, a bunch of GLHs were reprinted with up-to-date-ish covers.
The blurb on the back of this one mentions faith, but not a word about God so the pages of sermon might come as something of a shock.) This copy of Not Under the Law is one of these reprints from 1986 and it got a cover that involves a dress with a sailor collar and a truly hideous brown and pink checked sweater vest.
The adventure in the graveyard, the eventual romance though hero and heroine barely interact for most of the book - is all perfect, and again comes to a satisfying conclusion that leads the read to breath a happy sigh at the last page, and again feel their own resolve and faith strengthen as a result of reading such a lovely story.Maybe I'm too much a fan to be impartial at this point, but I don't care.
I love these books, and wish very much that other people could come to love them as much as I do.
I always admire Mrs. Hill's books because of the attention she pays to the art of homekeeping. The main character in this story blows them all away! She doesn't have a bed, and doesn't want to spend money on a cheap cot that won't be comfortable, so she makes her own mattress! The story that goes along with this is nice, not one of the best, but it gets 4 stars because of the girl's resourcefulness.
I love how Grace Livingston Hill's writings transport me to a different time.
Simpler in many ways.
more difficult in others.
Timelessly relevent though i am sure many would poke fun at the prominent faith and values running through each story.
Her books make me long for a community of people who live in neighbourhoods where people truly care about each other and simple gifts are treasured.
I love how self-sufficient the heroine is while making it clear that she totally relies on God. She stands up for herself and makes her way as she follows God's leading to a happy ending.
Joyce is about one of the best characters you could ever read about. She is kind to a fault and constantly puts her faith in God. I loved how everything came together and couldn't put the book down as I came towards the end. I also loved Darcy's character and wished he would've been in the book a little more.
How has it been so long since I've read a Grace Livingston Hill novel? Too long, apparently. Absolutely loved it - the old fashioned writing, Biblical encouragement, domestic details.
Grace Livingston Hill in her new book, “Not Under The Law” Book Eleven in the Love Endures series published by Barbour Publishing, Inc. takes us into the life of Joyce Radway.From the back cover: “She was paralyzed with fear…Who knew what desperate criminals these might be?
But in her haste to leave town, Joyce unwittingly stumbles on some men out to cover up their actions in a cemetery plot.Joyce is both stunned and afraid—especially when she recognizes her childhood friend among the men—but she narrowly escapes, unaware that as she builds her new life she’s being followed.Ruthless and swarthy, Tyke is out to silence the only witness to his crime.
NOT UNDER THE LAW by Grace Livingston Hill is a classic inspirational fiction.
"Love Endures" series.
A fast paced story that will have you turning pages.
From America's best loved storyteller,"Not Under The Law",is updated for a new generation of readers.
While,Ms. Livingston Hill is no longer with us her stories live on in our hearts.
Fast paced and enduring with a thought provoking message.
A must for any romance reader who enjoys a good,sound read with engaging,strong-minded characters that will lift your heart and spirit.Received for an honest review from the publisher.
Like all of Hill's books it is a little sappy and predictable, but that's why I love them.
What I liked about this book was the fact that not all the "bad" people are unredeemable.
A lot of GLH's books have the bad characters that are almost ridiculous, where this one had people finding themselves and becoming better.
I also liked that Janice, the main character is a strong and independent woman, which is not always the case in books written in that time.
I definitely recommend this book to all Grace Livingston Hill fans
One of my favorites. First published in 1925, same year as "The Great Gatsby" (April 1925)--wonder if it's purely coincidence that both have young men who got involved in bootlegging, and have been separated from someone they admired as a girl. (Another GLH book, HOMING was published around same time as "Gone With The Wind", sharing some names of "aristocratic" characters). Joyce Radway makes new life for herself "from nothing", but has high moral code she sticks to, altho easier options to get ahead in a material sense are offered her. See also WHITE LADY by Hill.
A fairly exciting story set in the 1920s, featuring an orphan who decides to make her own way in the world rather than stay with her unpleasant cousins. A bit over 'religious' with lots of introspection about following God's leading, and sinners repenting with a large amount of repetition. Perhaps more suitable for the period in which it was written; it's basically very well-written and a good plot, but the style would be rather off-putting to the majority these days.
Following the death of her beloved aunt, Joyce leaves home suddenly after a tongue lashing from her cousin and his wife. She couldn't bear to be treated like a servant in her own home, and she wanted to teach school more than anything. With God's help, she established herself in a tiny home in a distant city, never telling any of her friends where she was. Not until she knew she had to save an old friend did she return home.
First read circa 2012.Second read September 2016. Just a lovely story. A bit heavy-handed a times, but really enjoyable. A good antidote to the trash I mistakenly read earlier this week.
At first I really didn't like this one. The villains were too ugly and the heroine seemed rather flimsy. But I continued and gradually the sweetness of the story came through. It was still a little unbelievable but I ended up enjoying it very much. 3.5 stars.
Hill, Grace Livingston
This was a really good book. Of how someone took a bad situation and turned it into something great. God was mentioned a lot and about putting your faith in him.
