https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18840.The_Common_Reader
It’s appropriate that my 100th GR review should be a book that attempts to shift literary criticism from the hallowed office into the sitting room as all of us here on Goodreads are “the common reader”, a voice that in Woolf’s day barely existed.
I’m presently reading a novel which according to The New York Times Book Review and The Boston Globe is the work of a rare genius; the truth though is, as any common reader endowed with a functioning critical faculty would no doubt agree, that it’s simply a very ordinary novel with no distinguishing virtue.
One of the overriding impressions here is that Woolf is much more generous and kind in her criticism than in her praise.
A far cry from her wistful and introspective fiction, Woolf's essays on literature read as lively, droll, and conversational.
These essays focus on famous literary figures as well as the craft of fiction; written in confident but inviting prose designed specifically for what Woolf called the common reader, they interweave biography, wit, social commentary, and literary analysis.
She instead concerns herself with viewing a given writer or topic from several interpretive angles so that she might reveal as much about her subject as she can in a single essay, to a broad audience consisting of non-academic readers.
Favorite essays included "Notes on an Elizabethan Play," "Modern Fiction," "Outlines," and "How it Strikes a Contemporary."
As a matter of fact, her words come out so effortlessly that the essays seem to be written over in single sittings each, perhaps without any editing being ever done.I am quoting here some of the quotes which I loved in this collection, and I recommend a reading of this volume to the readers who enjoy Woolf’s writing as well as to the aspiring writers who find themselves struggling between the glorious past of literature and the mayhem which seems to be spreading over the present or the future of contemporary writings.
And, I was struck by the conversation even in those rare moments where I disagreed with her: I'm not sure I found her discussion of Heart of Darkness seaworthy; I found her analysis of Dorothea in Middlemarch ridiculous, in a way that should have been kind of personally embarrassing to Woolf herself; I both agree and disagree with her attitude toward Ulysses, but feel that our negativity indicates a certain immaturity in both of us; I found her remarks on The Old Wives' Tale a bit churlish, and, though they made sense in the context of her fraught relationship with Arnold Bennett, I wish she'd gone for humor rather than spite.
In fact, I've already had the 2-paperback Penguin set edited by Rachel Bowlby and, I think, her interesting essays could be regarded as something that supports our further explorations of the works mentioned in her essays; therefore, we could browse any one we like as an introduction to the real thing.It's my delight to read her The Common Reader Vol. I and thus more light to me why she wrote these scintillating essays and thus adopted such a title.
Read any topic you like and I think reading Montaigne will inspire your views and applications.
It is not to the cloistered disciplinarian mortifying himself in solitude that we are to turn, but to the well-sunned nature, the man who practises the art of living to the best advantage, so that nothing is stunted but some things are permanently more valuable than others." -Virginia Woolf, "On Not Knowing Greek"That first quote serves as the inspiration for this collection of literary essays, and Woolf's stated intention is to approach her material from the perspective of one who "reads for [her] own pleasure rather than to impart knowledge or correct the opinions of others." She even goes so far as to suggest that "common readers" such as herself are "worse educated [than the critic or scholar] and nature has not gifted [them] so generously." I couldn't help snickering a little at this image of Virginia Woolf--a lifelong aristocrat who was among the best-read and most talented writers of her own or any era--as some lowly commoner cobbling together her humble opinions for the pleasure of the other book-reading peasants, but I can appreciate her egalitarian intentions, at least.
She’s so damn erudite (in absolutely her own, self-made style), witty (drily and almost unconsciously so), brazen and yet also sometimes so frustratingly elusive.The Common Reader is Woolf’s own version of literary history, mainly English, but with a few Greeks and Russians thrown into the pile.’ The common reader’, a term first coined by Dr Johnson, is not the critic or the scholar but ordinary readers like you and me, although to be honest not many ordinary people are as encyclopedically well-read as Woolf.
This was the second time I'd read "The Common Reader", and when I reread books I always find that they show me new faces.
Perhaps I need to open my mind a bit, right?Woolf's prose in this book is lovely, and her evaluations of the books being reviewed are accurate, I think.
I've found, though, that Woolf generally is an expert reader and reviewer, and that I can trust what she says in nearly all cases.Next is "The Common Reader, Volume 2" - I know I'll enjoy this one just as much as the first volume.
I'm marking this as "read," which is not the case. I read about a hundred pages of it. But I'm not "currently reading it" anymore either. I'm picking it up now and again and reading an essay. I'll finish it at some point this year, but it doesn't seem honest to leave it up there on "currently-reading."And if we bookworms can't be honest on our bookshelves at least, whatever is the world coming to?
She seems to also have a lot of respect for poetry save for she is a prose writer.When reading this collection, I could not mistake that she seemed stuck to a groove about a certain period in time when there were great books that later proved to be classics.
I mean the way you get to know that a book is a classic is first that it was written a long time ago and secondly that it has withstood the light cast upon it by the populous and press and has managed to hold water.She writes and compiles articles from the Times literary supplement to articulate her taste in literature.
If there ever is a book to remind us why we read, this is it: reading for the sheer enjoyment of reading, the pleasure of the act.As probably the finest (wo)man of letters in England of her time, Virginia Woolf's take on reading is intensely personal, not in the way of "this character/situation reminds me of so-and-so/what happened in my life", but in the way of "this is how the author speaks to me, this is how I am reacting to this piece of art." Her take is refreshingly free from politics, ideology, or literary theory.
What strikes me in reading Virginia Woolf's nonfiction is how very much the context she's coming out of is strange to me.
Despite her modernism, the context of her time, the newspapers in which these essays were originally printed, was one of people who were born in the 19th century, and a literary class that was still generally conversant with the English canon as drawn by the Victorians.
A century later, Woolf's own name is more familiar to most people than those of many writers she mentions (barring Shakespeare and Austen and the Brontës).
Some people may read this book for criticism: I read it, as Woolf does many of her authors, for time travel.
Woolf writes for her own time, which unfortunately, means that this book does not translate so well into our own. Save for some pieces written about great authors of literature who are still read (at least in some circles) today, such as Jane Austen, many of her essays are very easily ignorable because they have no familiarity or importance to today's reader; I had no knowledge about many, probably most, of the people she writes about. The book is not so much for the common reader as about common (that is, non-royal) readers of times gone by.
A set of widely diverse essays and literary criticism, ranging from Chaucer to Conrad, with many off-the-beaten-path excursions into the absurd (reviews of truly dreadful works) and the very practical (the author's difficulty infinding a patron). Some essays meander all over and never come to a point; some demonstrate two diametrially opposed opinions, each defended and proved sound; some are comically spiteful reviews. Well worth dipping into.
No obstante, estas dos cuestiones están profundamente imbricadas en las apreciaciones de Woolf, para quien resulta de gran interés saber si la autora era introvertida o extrovertida y el modo en que ello le llevó a desarrollar un tipo de literatura.
Por ello, el consejo que da Woolf al lector es del e mantenerse fiel a sus propias impresiones y extraer sus conclusiones sin dejarse influenciar por ninguna autoridad en el campo.
Para aquellos interesados por la obra de Woolf en particular y por la literatura inglesa en general, "El lector común" es un clásico que aporta un conocimiento sólido sobre el arte literario.
But the concept of fresh eyes and an unacademic look at literature works very well for Woolf and the reader a hundred years later.
Best are: "The Russian Point of View," "The Patron and the Crocus," "Modern Fiction," and "How It Strikes a Contemporary." She is great at using simple similes/metaphors--music, the eyes adjusting to twilight--to communicate the difficulty of appreciating some authors, such as Chekhov.
And even more points for saying this about Henry James: "...[he] wreaked his failure [at attaining a public] by a succession, gradually increasing in intensity, of angularities, obscurities, and affectations which no writer whose patron was his friend would have thought it necessary to inflict." Word.
This is the first of two collections of essays by Virginia Woolf about various writers, their books, and style for the common man.
Unlike her novels, these are fairly easy to read...if you know the material.
Some essays I found easy to understand like the ones about the Greeks, the Russians, George Eliot, Joseph Conrad and others I had no idea who she was talking about, thus making it hard for me to get what she was talking about.
Seems like she thought translators often distorted the way in which the author was speaking, especially when she talks abut Russian and Greek writers.
Se me llena la boca cada vez que hablo de Virginia Woolf, así que me voy a limitar a decir que esta colección de ensayos es fantástica y que, sobre todo, lo que más alucinada me tiene de ella es que todas y cada una de las cosas que cuenta aquí las aprendiera ella misma, sin ningún tipo de respaldo académico. Menuda bofetada en la cara a toda la sociedad de su tiempo que es esta mujer, me encanta.
"The weather has varied almost as much in the course of generations as mankind. The snow of those days was more formally shaped and a good deal softer than ours, just as an eighteenth-century cow was no more like our cows than she was like the florid and fiery cows of Elizabethan pastures. Sufficient attention has scarcely been paid to this aspect of literature, which, it cannot be denied, has its importance" (184).
Brilliant book. Its essays are slightly uneven, if only for being slightly hodgepodge in standing alongside one another across wide materials and tracks of thought, but always enjoyable. At end, when the veil of the essay is lifted, these leave the world a touch wider and more rewarding place.
The final paragraph of the book seems to me a good suggestion for critics everywhere to keep in mind: “As for the critics whose task it is to pass judgment upon the books of the moment, whose work, let us admit, is difficult, dangerous, and often distasteful, let us ask them to be generous of encouragement, but sparing of those wreaths and coronets which are so apt to get awry, and fade, and make the wearers, in six months time, look a little ridiculous.
This collection of essays (some original, many revised from publications for the Times Literary Supplement) was published in 1925 a month prior to Mrs. Dalloway, and apparently many of the critics who disliked the novel, admired this work.
Most contemporary readers would invert that judgment, accepting the canonization of her modernist novels but finding the essays in this collection dated, still rooted, by and large, to a pre-war, perhaps even Victorian, style and tone.
Perhaps even more presciently, VW hints in this collection at the dissolution of the edifice of high art by admitting equal attention to works of relative obscurity, some of which she readily admits are lacking in craft.
It's hard to even say how much I love those book. Woolf does essays on random literary topics that interest her, and she's so, so skilled, they interest you. For example, Jacobean drama. She starts out saying what everyone really thinks who bothers to read or watch it (I paraphrase), "Who are these crazy people following self-destructive plots?" She joins with us. Then, slowly, she makes us putty in her hands to the point where we can see magic in the plays. I think it's these essays we should remember her for.
In this collection of essays about other writers through history, some known and some less-known, Woolf brilliantly weaves description and character study into her astute commentary to place each author into an historical context that is absolutely alive and vibrant, moving from ancient times toward our own.
One is struck by the sheer amount of reading Virginia Woolf must have done. Her passion for literature, especially English literature, its history, its greatest practitioners and some of its lesser, leaps out of every essay.
Read for my global modernization class
On fiction - "The writer seems constrained, not by his own free will but by some powerful and unscrupulous tyrant who has him in thrall, to provide a plot, to provide comedy, tragedy, love interest, and an air of probability embalming the whole so impeccable that if all his figures were to come to life they would find themselves dressed down to the last button of their coats in the fashion of the hour.
Leer a Virginia Woolf siempre es interesante, sin embargo, creo que si el lector no está muy familiarizado con la literatura inglesa, o lo que es peor, no le gusta, este libro se volverá cuesta arriba. En lo personal disfruté mucho los capítulos referidos a Jane Austen, a las hermanas Brontë y Mary Wollstonecraft. Me gustaría darle más de 3 estrellas, pero de no ser por esos capítulos el libro se me hubiese vuelto insufrible.
Leer a Virginia Woolf siempre es interesante, sin embargo, creo que si el lector no está muy familiarizado con la literatura inglesa, o lo que es peor, no le gusta, este libro se volverá cuesta arriba. En lo personal disfruté mucho los capítulos referidos a Jane Austen, a las hermanas Brontë​​ y Mary Wollstonecraft. Me gustaría darle más de 3 estrellas, pero de no ser por esos capítulos el libro se me hubiese vuelto insufrible.
This was an extraordinary book of essays. Whether it is some obscure diarist or Jane Austen, Woolf looks at other writers with a unique perspective that makes them live again and leaves us wanting more.
This collection of critical essays (dedicated the cannon-thwarting Lytoon Strachey) was published just before the publication of Mrs. Dalloway. This was a very strategic move on Woolf's part to make way for herself and her own work.
