https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61906.The_Warrior_s_Apprentice
Review updated on 16.02.2017.A buddy read with Choko and Maria.We finally meet the main hero of the series, Miles Vorkosigan.
In the beginning of the book he failed his physical test in a military academy - he had a lot of birth defects; their origin was explained in the previous installment.
I would like to mention his cousin Ivan as a great newcomer (he was just being born in the previous book).
This is book #3 in Vorkosigan saga, but it can be read as a standalone.
so i was engaging in a favorite pastime on friday night, namely verbal one-upmanship slash sadistically using the power of my oh so mighty intellect to tease my poor innocent friends, when the very drunk birthday boy said "You know you are going to get smacked if you keep on talking like that." i couldn't help myself: i reached up and gave him a very light & friendly tap on the cheek with the palm of my hand while dropping another dazzling bon mot.
the latter character - a former brainwashed rapist and sadistic torturer who now acts as Miles' bodyguard - is the other big selling point of the novel.
Bujold definitely knows how to write characters that the reader can feel.
By reading it a book a week with my friends ☺!I was already in love with the Count and Countess Vorkosigan and I should have known that their progeny would not disappoint either.
The growth was extremely painful and despite the constant surgeries and top care, Miles is deformed, undergrown, and his bones break all the time, even by just a firm grip or a forceful step.
Being the son of a Count, Miles is given a chance at trying out for the Imperial Military Academy but fails fast and decisively.
The situations he falls into are so unlikely, but Miles character is such that you can't help but accept and root for the cause!!!
As if three reads wasn't proof enough, right?The beginning and the end is completely scaled back from the wild as hell middle, but that's as it should be.
Miles is a brilliant and very flawed character, showing signs of megalomania and depression, or perhaps just being a brilliant bipolar case.
:) In that respect, he's a lot like Sherlock.It sure as hell makes for an interesting read when you bring up all the great world-building juxtapositions.
The rest of what comes relies even more on that tongue and less from fighting, but that's even more impressive when you think about it.
Impossible or preposterous are words Miles Naismith Vorkosigan neither understand nor wishes to master.
Everything began by he catastrophically flunking the physical officer’s entrance exam of the Barrayaran Imperial Military Service.
The discouraged but never beaten Miles Vorkosigan goes on to visit Beta Colony with his faithful bodyguard Bothari and daughter Elena, soon taking possession.
He is the heir of a royal house, a flunked officer but also a commander by his very nature.
Always kind and sharp-tongued, ever trying to compensate his disadvantages, he is always brilliant and thrives on proving himself equal to anyone else.
Well, let me help you with that, start reading this book and kill two birds with one stone.It doesn’t matter if you’re not a fan of sci-fi or space operas, this book will give you an opportunity to meet your new favorite character, or at least a new addition to your favorite characters list, Miles Vorkosigan.
It offers a plenty of exciting action sequences and unpredictable, and often very funny, situations ensuring not one moment in this book to be classified as boring.Side characters are giving more depth to this seemingly simple storyline, infusing it with energy which goes hand in hand with Miles's forward momentum making this book next to impossible to put down.
UPDATED 2017.04.02 with Worst Cover Gallery - check down below and feel free to comment!
Nature was generous with this one...__________________________________I always knew I'll love Miles Vorkosigan.
I only met him once and very long time ago in The Mountains Of Mourning and I recall I liked what I read, but it wasn't a full picture.
I'm not implying anything, but there are so many similarities between these two that you simply can't not notice.Back to Miles - I'm highly enjoying the series and I'm planning to read it all.
Granted, I don't like to DNF books in general and I did like the previous volumes very much so I wanted to allow a fluke.Nevertheless, it's always a bad sign when even a space heist that turns into some war effort gets so unbelievably out of hand that I get antsy despite the action and just want it to be over.I just couldn't warm to the crippled rich kid that had never learned any boundaries, was (occasionally) pretty smart but exasperatingly stupid when it counted.
This fourth instalment changes the focus from Cordelia and Aral to their son, Miles, who is now seventeen and making do with the consequences of the poisoning attempt on his parents when his mother was pregnant with him.
However, as difficult as his situation is, being often seen as a freak on Barrayar, he still has many huge ‘assets’, being male and heir of one of the highest Houses.
There is a certain poetic justice, but at the same time, I could well understand Cordelia, Aral, and Miles connection to this man, as well as both Elenas.
While this story is better than the last one, I get the sense this may be the peak and the writing not tight enough for me to continue the series. Perhaps after my next 1,000 stories, I'll get back to it. 6 of 10 stars
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my FINISHING THE SERIES! list.I loves me a good series! But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go.Is this my favourite book in the Vorkisgan Saga
But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go.Is this my favourite book in the Vorkisgan Saga so far?
For the nine days I had this book on the go, I found myself clock-watching every morning (and I like my job at the moment) because I couldn’t wait until my lunch break when I’d have half an hour with Miles!
In a bid to impress Elena, Miles blags his way onto a repossessed jump-ship being held hostage by the distraught pilot and ends up buying the whole damn ship.
Lois McMaster Bujold has quietly and steadily created one of the most popular SF adventure franchises of the past few decades with her stories or Cordelia Naismith and Aral Vorkosigan in Shards of Honor and Barrayar, but it was The Warrior's Apprentice, her second novel, where she introduced her greatest character and got the whole series going.
Those are the keys to making a series that fans (as opposed to just "readers") want to pick up everything Mrs. Bujold chooses to write about Miles and his fellow characters.
The first time I read this book I wasn't impressed.
The first time I read TWA the thing that resonated most with me was Miles' need for approval.
The fact that despite everything Miles never gave up is incredible and it makes these books a must read for all people who feel they are unworthy because of some disability.
The scene that made the most emotional impact this time was the one when Elena Bothari's mother shows up in Miles' quarters and the following events.
When I first read this book I couldn't grasp why the elder Elena would spurn her daughter.
*sigh* I really wanted to like this book, but...
I feel like I've been disappointed with almost everything I've read lately, and I was really hoping for this to just wow me, for it to make me want to put everything else on hold and read the series and just fall into this universe.
Tally up another one for Miles.)I wanted to know more about Bothari, but I feel like he was given really short shrift, both in character, and in how his situation was handled.
I wanted to really like this, and it sucks that I didn't, because a friend recommended it to me, and I respect her opinions.
I read this for the first time sometime during the 1990s directly after the Cordelia books and as a follow-up after reading much later books in the series (Memory and onwards).Miles Vorkosigan is the teenage son of Aral and Cordelia Vorkosigan.
As pointed out to one of the side-characters after an encounter with a strong stimulant: no they couldn't tell because he really is like that all the time.It's also a great grounding in the character of this series, even as young as Miles is here.
This is a story that tells itself – the reader is only along for the ride.
The story is finely balanced between the scampering plot and the ridiculously good character development of the physically challenged Miles Vorkosigan / Naismith.
The supporting cast, though not as thoroughly developed, are also highly likeable each in their own fashion (it’s because they’re all so darn human).
It’s story telling at its finest.I read this first, because it is the first novel featuring Miles as a protagonist.
You’d be hard pressed to find an on-going Science Fiction (Space Opera) series that is universally more revered than the Vorkosigan Saga.
One of my favourite reviews for this is Mark Monday's where he talks about Miles: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
I agree with what Mark says about Miles being the archetypal side-kick who is finally cast as a main character.
Hallelujah!I particularly like that Miles is not unconcerned or unaffected by his physical limitations.
He knows there are lots of things that will if he doesn't play it smart and think his way to a solution.
As Mark says, I feel them, Elena, Bothari, and all the others.
Putting such wonderfully well realised characters in a fast paced and interesting story makes for a book that is a joy to read.
Ms. Bujold's main character is decidedly real.When I first pondered at the message of this novel and how to write my review, I planned in touching the fact that Miles creates a word in which he belongs, a safe harbor for "broken" people like him, in need of a second chance.
And in his decision, he neither fails nor loses his honor.(view spoiler)[***** Post Scriptum: It is interesting that up to the end Ms. Bujold, through Miles's eyes, seems to believe that he forswears.
Miles clearly is a rascal character similar to Hans Solo of the Star Wars movies, unlike his noble parents, Cordelia Naismith and Aral Vorkosigan.
It is a debatable which is a worse sentence, but there is no death sentence on Beta, unlike Barrayar where the sentence of hanging for crimes is one of their mildest death sentences.Miles is seventeen years old.
Miles is actually a genius, not that anyone on Barrayar cares except for his parents.Miles is at loose ends, so his parents suggest he visit his grandmother on Beta Colony.
That’s why I can walk around today, instead of being carried in a bucket.”After meeting baby Miles at the end of Barrayar, I finally got to know the main protagonist of the Vorkosigan Saga.Part of buddy reading the series with SpecFic in chronological order.This book didn't pull its punches and got right into the middle of the action.
Although, I have to admit that it is quite funny to read about Miles digging the hole he is standing in deeper and deeper...I was entertained, I laughed, but I also skimmed.
I don't know, I guess I will have to read another one!3.25 undecided stars...
RTC maybe, if 'll find more time.For now I'll just say it's a fun light sci-fi adventure (space opera) and I totally agree with my friends who compare main character Miles to Locke Lamora or Tyrion Lannister.
Unfortunately for me, it seems Mrs. Bujold has shifted tones when going from Cordelia to her son Miles.Where Cordelia's novels were sometimes funny, sometimes inclined to the romantic, but as a whole well-crafted and dramatic, "The Warrior's Apprentice" feels more like a running joke.
Miles recruits people by stuttering half-baked lies; he exposes imperial schemes by confronting admirals with his sharp wit; he outwits entire armies by concocting plans full of assumptions that his enemies conveniently fall into.I realize this novel is intended as light reading, but so were "Shards of Honor" and "Barrayar".
Miles Naismith Vorkosigan, with his favourite saying at the ending of the book being “Forward momentum,” will never grow any moss.
At the end of Barrayar, Miles is a small, brittle-boned child with a reluctance to sit still and preternatural speed for finding the next predicament to get into.
A rollicking adventure with a satisfying ending.
No cliff-hanger, but obviously set up for the further adventures of Miles Vorkosigan, which I look forward to reading.Book number 214 in my science fiction and fantasy reading project.
5.0 stars. Absolutely superb introduction to one of the top 10 best SF characters ever created, Miles Vorkosigan. Highly recommended.
Though third in the Vorkosigan series, it is the first in the series with Miles Vorkosigan as the star.
From a small act of kindness in helping a washed-up pilot in an arms shipping scheme, he ends up in the middle of a planetary civil war.
With each improvisation in problem solving, his schemes escalate, and he ends up "accidentally" building up a mercenary space navy.
This 1986 novel was included in "Young Miles", a collection of novels and novellas bringing him into his 20s.
You can't step in the same river twice, and this SF coming-of-age novel reads very differently in my 40s than it did in my 20s.
The Warrior's Apprentice is a comedy in the Shakespearian sense: while frequently laugh-till-you hurt hilarious, it's a rich study of character and culture.Shakespeare would've loved young Miles, who's a goodhearted Richard III, if one can imagine, an off-the-leash lunatic with a gift for persuasion, who ends up in far over his head.
Bujold's Miles Vorkosigyn novels are perhaps the best character studies, the best-constructed comedies and dramas, in contemporary literature, genre or otherwise.
This was not at all what I was expecting and it was awesome! Light, fun, easy reading. I was very fond of the narrator Miles and my enjoyment of his quick wit and sharp mind only grew as the story progressed. There were some wonderfully absurd situations which were always resolved in a manner that I found completely believable which surprised me. I'll be sure to read more of this series in the future but this book works well as a stand alone.
Throughout most of his off-world adventures in this book (and in the sequels), Miles, who is the only son and grandson of worlds-famous Vor warriors (Count Vorkosigan) keeps his family name a secret, going incognito as Mr. Naismith, later becoming Admiral Naismith at the instigation (insistence) of his loyal crew.Towards the end, following a tearful parting from his friends and a grand farewell from his entire crew, Miles returns home to planet Barrayar, to face trumped-up charges of treason.
The two young noblemen make a good showing, along with Miles' father, Count Vorkosigan.
I love Miles. That's all.
This is the perfect introduction to Miles.
His ambitions constantly war with his duties, his world with him, yet he finds answers that work, if not always the ones he wants.
We know what happened, Miles finds some out, guesses more, & the public version is cleansed of reality.As usual, the reader did a great job.
Perfect.
On to the first story in Borders of Infinity: The Mountains of Mourning / Labyrinth / The Borders of Infinity.
'Mountains' is next, before The Vor Game.
The other 2 stories come later in the series.
