https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1729340.The_Silver_Spoon
He disfrutado menos de este libro que de 'El mono blanco' porque la trama principal con un juicio completamente absurdo y loco de por medio, no acabó de atraparme, pero me encanta cómo Galsworthy utiliza esta excusa para analizar una vez más la banalidad e hipocresía de la clase alta inglesa en los años 20.
En este libro me ha faltado mucho Soames, pero cuando ha aparecido ha BRILLADO.
El desenlace solo me hace desear leer el tercer y último libro de esta trilogía ardientemente.Pd. Empieza a ser tradición que en todos los libros de Galsworthy un hombre se enamore de tal manera de una mujer que este enamoramiento lo lleve a las puertas de la muerte (Cero dramas xDD)Pd2.
I’m enjoying the continuing story of the Forsytes, although Soames is the only Forsyte in name left - the story also follows his daughter, Fleur and her husband.I was intrigued by Michael (now a British MP) and his upholding of “Foggartism” - which included the belief that if the children of Britain could be caught young (about 14 or 15 years old) and taken out to a new land (like Australia), then this would alleviate the strain on British resources and give the children a more promising life.
As The Silver Spoon begins, Francis Wilmot turns up at Fleur and Michael Mont’s fashionable London house, bringing with him news of Jon and his sister.
Fleur and Michael’s son, Kit, often affectionately known as the eleventh Baronet is a happy little chap, the apple of everyone’s eye.Michael has left the world of publishing since we last saw him and entered the world of politics.
While trying to decide what his politics actually are, Michael hits upon Foggartism – a bizarre policy which focuses on fixing the country through the eradication of unemployment by sending young people to the colonies to work.
No sé qué tiene este personaje que siempre me conmueve. Amo a Soames. Lástima que se acerque su canto del cisne :(
Book 5 of the FORSYTE CHRONICLES continues the excellent social commentary of the previous novels.
But the 1% is still in charge, with nary a progressive thought among them.Fleur Forsyte Mont is a social gadfly, but also arbiter who tends to collect the in-crowd for her burgeoning salon.
This emphasis on being in "the know" with "the new" contrasts with the altruistic tendencies of her husband Michael, who is trying to foment social change through his standing as a Member of Parliament.
His reflections show his philosophical outlook on how things have changed since "his day" - astute, amusing and often regretful.
It's a difficult task, taking too unlikeable characters (Fleur and Soames) and making them the lead characters of this novel, the fifth in a series. Fleur is entirely selfish and privileged -- a real millennial before her time -- but yet I felt sorry for her predicament and happy that she pulled through. But more problems for her, and therefore for the people who have the misfortune of loving her, are announced at the end of this novel, so I'll have to see whether Galsworthy can continue his hire wire act in the next installment.
................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008.............................................................................................................................................
Galsworthy's questioning of English jazz age morality is again examined in this novel about libel and the contrast of personal and public morality. The interlude with the German actor seems rather beside the point, unless I have missed the point, but the championing the less fortunate is satisfying. Unfortunately happiness is difficult to come by for anyone. A bonus is the contrast of Fleur with a woman who mirrors her in certain ways, especially Fleur's past self. Glasowrthy is not a great stylist, but I do like his books.
This is only my least favorite of Galsworthy's books I've read so far. But it's almost certainly better than whatever you're reading lately. The politics from 1924 England are not so current anymore but the commentary on society seems so appropriate for today. And the author's insight into humanity is a wonder!
Glasworthy returnes to discuss the issues of women in society - are they liberated or not? What us a good reputation? What are morals? What kind of person is, really, a flapper. And, in a way, this is also a book about men and their wars, even when women don't want them to fight.And, as always in the Forsyte Saga the issue of class and privilege us wonderfully dealt with.
De la misma manera que Fleur, la protagonista (o una de ellos), no tiene que ser siempre buena y sacrificada para que puedas empatizar con ella.John Galsworthy es muy bueno desarrollando personajes con muchos defectos y explicando no solo por qué son así, sino empatizando de alguna manera con ellos, de tal forma que puedes comprender por qué hacen las cosas aunque no compartas su punto de vista.El otro motor de la novela es el día a día de Michael Mont como político y su teoría: el "foggartysmo", que según él impedirá la crisis que va a llegar.
So, nobody luvs Fleur, who pouts as only she can, so that Soames has to take her on a world tour to recover.Oh, and Jon's idiot brother-in-law was dispatched to London for the duration of this book, apparently for no better reason than that we shouldn't forget about Jon. If there isn't a decent payoff for this in Book 6, I shall be very upset.This volume ends with another one of those patented bittersweet Soames/Irene pathcrossings, this time in Washington DC.
It hardly comes as a surprise that  Britney  Fleur isn't going to let a 6-month absence from the little brat get in the way of her world tour.
The idea of it goes through the book, true for those born into privileged families and England herself, both not ready to admit that adjustments to the lifestyle are long due.
This book concentrates on aspects of social and political life as related to Michael and Fleur Mont: his desire to aid England to fully use the resources of its vassal states; her desire to be the successful Lady in the eyes of the society.
I give the book four stars only because I am not interested in politics ways, but even I have to admit that those parts were written in simple and engaging language and allowed me to dive deeper into life of England in the 20th century.Victoria Evangelina Belyavskaya
This fifth novel in the Saga began more weakly than any of the others, and it took me a while to get engaged in its particular story lines (this despite already being familiar with the main characters).
Like "The White Monkey", it zeroes in on Soames, Fleur, and Michael to the expense of the other members of the family of whom I'd like to hear more.This one was more explicitly satirical, particularly of post-World War I British politics and society.
The economic and social problems facing Britain in the wake of the first world war are presented by the author, faced up to somewhat ineffectually by Michael, who has become the most engaging character, and ignored in favour of partying, being seen and being modern by London society.
The more serious the country's problems, the more trivial seem to be the responses, leading up to the dramatic climax of the book, a courtly act of pettiness.I cannot get to like Fleur.
I like Michael very much.
I can't help liking Soames, who has emerged as one of the great comic characters of early twentieth century fiction.
Still an interesting installment in the overall series and still alight with Galsworthy's gently sardonic prose, this is the weakest of the lot so far. A little rambling, even as its entirely too focused (and thus lacking the layered depth of some of the previous books) on its comparatively shallow plot. It comes across much more preachy than the other books - whether you agree with Galsworthy's conclusions or not. Michael remains one of the few entirely likable characters, even as Soames remains perhaps the most relatable. And Fleur grows downright unlikable here.
One of the things that amazes me about Galsworthy is he often wrote about shallow, flawed characters that I assume he often disagreed with, yet his talent and care was such that he made them compelling, sympathetic, and human. In today's time of polarized politics, where one side is all right and the other all wrong, this is a lesson for us all. Focusing on an argument between Fleur and Marjorie Ferrar, a high society girl, the novel seems light, yet deals with changing morals, tradition, and idealism in imaginative, very readable ways.
Definitely the weakest so far, but -- at least in the audio version -- it kept my interest throughout. Something always struck me. Actually, though, much of the irony stems from what we know actually happened 13 years after the book was published. Soames is more sympathetic, while Fleur is insufferable and Michael fatuous. Fogarthism (are the echoes of "fog" and "fogies" accidental) is just the kind of daft program that would have appear between the wars.I'll continue reading the series, but with long breaks between volumes. All at once might be too much.
Re-reading for the 3rd or 4th time. I find myself sympathizing more with Soames and disliking Fleur more with every re-read. And I suspect that when Irene appears again I will like her even less, too.
The sequels are definitely not as compelling as the first three books -- I had to force myself to keep going on this one. But it's kind of fun to see Soames getting more mellow as he gets older. I might read the next one, now that Jon and Irene seem to be back.
Oh thank god. This one took forEVER. the ending was great though. Fleur and Michael are such Millennials, it's great. I'm reading the interlude now and of course Soames WOULD run into Jon and Irene in America.
I think this is book 5 in the 9 book cycle. So many volumes...with different cover art, say with dragons and women in bronze bustiers, this could be mass-marketed.
Spoiled brat goes to courtis coddled, snubbed, learns nothingoh well, free world trip!
Not as strong as the previous books, but still worthwhile if you've gotten this far in the series. Like In Chancery, this book has a major court battle, which is deftly described. Ends well
3.5 stars
Galsworthy's sometimes elegantly sarcastic commentary on the idle rich is brilliant! Good read...
We get into some new territory here in this middle book of the middle trilogy of the Forsyte chronicles.
3.8
This is a continuation of the Forsyte Saga. I read it in Boston over Xmas. The first book is still my favorite. Parts of this were dull.
