https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826582.If_You_Take_a_Mouse_to_School
He's soooo cute and smart <3 It was really sweet/fun/sad when he wanted the lunchbox!I hate mice, but this one is adorable!
This book I read was really funny because I had to read it to first grade students at Stevenson elementary. It was really an experience because I had never done that before. I liked that the children were very interested in the story, even though they had read it already. I was embarrassed at the moment but when I saw my friend do it I had the confidence to read to them. When I was finished they asked me a lot of random questions. I had fun reading this book to them. I’m sure they had fun heari
This book I read was really funny because I had to read it to first grade students at Stevenson elementary.
It was really an experience because I had never done that before.
I liked that the children were very interested in the story, even though they had read it already.
I was embarrassed at the moment but when I saw my friend do it I had the confidence to read to them.
I had fun reading this book to them.
I’m sure they had fun hearing me read it.
I recommend the book for children.
Anyone who has worked with children or had some of their own know that kids ask a lot of questions. Laura Joffe Numeroff builds off that truth in If You Take a Mouse to School. If you take a mouse to school... he will get into all sorts of crazy shenanigans, that is for sure!This book was read to the group at my preschool observation this morning. Their responses to the lead teacher's pre-reading questions were priceless ("Can we have a mouse for here?"). Colorful illustrations work in tandem with the simple story to bring the adorable tale to life.
This book is extremely engaging for students of nearly all ages. The colorful illustrations allow younger students to search for the mouse on each page while he is busy making mischief throughout a school. Students' schema is utilized as familiar school vocabulary is explored (science, lunchbox, lunchroom etc.). The story comes full-circle when the mouse asks, just like at the beginning, for your lunchbox.
This story, along with all other Laura Numeroff stories was great! I love that it each action leads the mouse to want something else because it is so relatable to children's actions. Also, I like that it is set in a school. This makes it relatable to young students. Along with the plot, I enjoyed the illustrations. This story is silly and great to read to children of any age. It is also fun to read because the children can guess by looking at the pictures of what the mouse will want to do next.
My daughter loves loves LOVES this book series
Very cute book(:
This is one that my pre scholars really liked. It is another one good for beginning readers, also if you have a little one afraid to start school, this shows how fun it can be.
The mouse will want to go back to school again and again.This picture books main character's are a mouse and the boy who owns the mouse.
The mouse seems to be greedy and want a lot from his owner, much like children to their parents.
It takes place mainly at the school that the boy and mouse go to.
I don't think you could mistake where it takes place anywhere else other than a school because of the title and the illustration shows they are at a school.I personally liked this book, because it was a quick easy read and my little cousin also enjoyed it.
In this book, the mouse goes through a typical day of elementary school.
I believe the book would be best suitable for a Kindergarten class read-aloud, particularly in the beginning of the school year when the students are just getting accustomed to the new routine of school.
The book would greatly help students understand this new transition, and it is a fun read as well.
Overall, the whole collection is entertaining and fun, and this book is a great way to get students interested in the routine of going to school.
Mouse's visit to the school with his owner reads more like a sequence of events rather than a chain of connected events, as in If You Give a Mouse a Cookie. Mouse has interesting adventures that are illustrated with some really cute pictures (mouse peeking around the boy's book, mouse's head only visible in the cloud of dust that the kids kick up as they run for the bus). However, the story just didn't have the appeal to me that the very first mouse book did. It was OK.
This tale is about a mouse who goes to school with a boy and what a mouse would do. This book could be used to discuss the things that go on in a school day. This story could explore possibilities about what "if's" this happened. Could talk about things that happen in a school day and why we can not bring pets to school. Keywords: School, mouse, events at school, what you might do in a school day
If you take a mouse to school is a great book that would be best suited for beginning learners. The colorful illustrations, silly plot and simple vocabulary make this book great for pre k to kindergarten students.This book would be best as a read aloud to young students, or an independent reading book for slightly older children. In my opinion, this book could be used as an independent reading book for children in the 1st grade.
These books are cute enough. Recently I realized that I can use them in my grammar classes. Most of the sentences are good examples of complex sentences with classic dependent clauses leading the way. This will be a fun book to read with the children as I introduce this skill.If you take a mouse to school, the teacher will be able to use him to help educate the students. :)
What happen is that a boy takes a mouse too school and something's happen when he in school with a boy i did like the book it's a mouse that goes to school that never happens when do you take a mouse to school that's what i like about my book i recommend this book to a first grader or second grader because it is not that hard to read the book but it will be to easy for a 3 grader and up.
The book was about a mouse that went to school and did a lot of stuff and some bad stuff too. I like this book because it kind of has action and its funny. I would recommend this book to the people that like to imaged stuff and yeah.
This book is a great way to discuss sequences and also make predictions. The series of animals experiencing different experiences can also be discussed as a whole group where the children make conclusions about what they may do.
This colorful book keeps your students guessing as they see if their predictions are correct. It even talks about the mouse writing a book and then reading it to his friend. The mouse shows how much fun school can be.
Love these silly stores. So glad carmine has them!!
If you take a mouse to school, you better be prepared for him to explore and be the best little student he can be!
You should probably like to share.
He is going to get everything he asks you for because you just can't say no to the little fella.
He is a little forgetful at times so make sure you know where this belongings are.
Such a cute book about a little mouse and his human helper!
It's a quick read because you want to know what else he wants!
Don't bring your mouse to school!!!
I found this book funny due to how if you give the little mouse one thing, he’s just going to keep wanting other things.
I think this book would be appropriate for Kindergarteners because it is a simple read and the illustrations are detailed enough to the point that a young beginner reader, could easily determine what was happening based on the illustrations.
I think the little mouse accurately depicts how young preschoolers and kindergarteners are at that age where they are constantly wanting this and that and then forgetting things at home or at school and discovering new things-they are constantly on the go.
This book is about a boy that brings his mouse to school with him for a day.
The mouse goes through the day with him, doing everything that the boy does.
It introduces young children to new things that they may experience while in school.
It is also very relatable for young children as they are beginning school and go through the same things that the boy and mouse go through.
This book can be used in a classroom at the beginning of the year introduce new things that they might experience being in a new school.
“If You Take a Mouse to School” is a wonderful book.
It is about a young boy who decides to bring his mouse to school.
However, when he brings his mouse to school he will be asked for his lunchbox.
Sometimes that’s how kindergarteners feel on their first day of school.
So this story can help show kindergarteners that school can be fun!
This book is a good example to teach students about cause and effect or about inferencing.
Even for 3rd graders this book can be a good one to refer back to.
The story talks about the mouse and the events that happen as he is at school.
The story ends with the mouse wanting a snack which means that he has to be taken to the school to get his lunch box.
3 book topic ideas1.) This is a good book to start working on students cause and effect writing or identifying cause and effect in stories.
Students can start writing sequence of events stories of their own.
3.) Students could also use this to work on their basic counting, they can count the amount of things or people on each page throughout the story.
looking at a mouse even in illustrations is not comforting to me; I would probably have a hard time picking up this book to read it to a class.
However, the book does depict, in a personified manner, what a mouse really does.
I think this is a good humored book that could be used when considering a theme about mice during class.
Of course, the intention of the book is probably more to read it to children when they are beginning the school year or having issues with being at school.
There are other things but I won't spoil the rest.I have mixed feelings about this book.
I like it because it is sweet and funny, but at the same time, I don't like it because I really don't feel like there is a point with these books.
They are easy to read for young readers, so I guess that is a good thing.I would use this in my classroom to teach a series of events or even cause and effect.
It would be a good way to show that there is a chain reaction to everything.
If You Take a Mouse to School is a story about, as the title implies, a young boy who takes a mouse to school with him.
In classic Numeroff style, each time the mouse asks the boy for something, he then asks for another thing to go with it until the story eventually comes full circle.
This book is fun, well illustrated, and captivating for children of many ages.
This particular book works well with children who are in school and can relate to the mouse and boy or children who are getting ready to begin school and may be wondering what to expect.
So, somehow when I was in school, out of every adult that ever read to me and every library visit, I only heard/read "If You Give a Mouse a Cookie".
So I heard this book for the first time about a month ago...I was very skeptical.
I loved it and it's good I never heard it when I was younger, because I would have tried to bring my rabbit school.
It's one for those books that can be read at many ages and more children have no problem with hearing it more than once.
This book is very long...very. Yes its cute and the story line shows you what kids can expect at a School day in big school, but it is sooo long to many words and I had to improvise when my 3 to 4 year olds got ansy. So I had to shorten thrle story. Not a bad book but def not for 3 to 4 year olds story time.
Am I the only one who feels like Numeroff took her own very fun, charming, smart book and is now just seeing how many times she can sell us the same basic concept? If you give a mouse a cookie, he's going to ask for a glass of milk.If you take a mouse to school, he'll ask you for your lunchbox.It's like she's doing MadLibs versions of the original.
