https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156534.Y
In typical comic book male-centric fashion, this series wonders what life would be like if all men died spontaneously...except for one.
I suppose if we're trying to put ourselves in the head of an early-nineties comic book reading teen, this might feel innovative.
Okay, BUT, regardless of how inadequately this comic deals with gender issues, it at least TRIES to grapple with them, and it does a better job than any of the movies mentioned above.
Perhaps by the end of the series, the author's portrayals of gender issues will become more interesting and sophisticated.
Yorick Brown is that guy who can't hold down a job. Plays with magic..and he is the last man on earth. Something has killed off everything male on the planet. He and his pet monkey are all that's left. Now gangs of women called the Amazons, a bunch of Republicans and his brainwashed sister Hero are all wanting a piece of Yorick. Either to kill him or mate him. He just wants to find his fiance in Australia.This was a fun book. I thought it was going to go very political but quickly became a fun
Yorick Brown is that guy who can't hold down a job. Plays with magic..and he is the last man on earth. Something has killed off everything male on the planet. He and his pet monkey are all that's left.
  Now gangs of women called the Amazons, a bunch of Republicans and his brainwashed sister Hero are all wanting a piece of Yorick.
  Either to kill him or mate him. He just wants to find his fiance in Australia.This was a fun book. I thought it was going to go very political but quickly became a fun book.
The best the survivors can do is keep hiking down some road to whatever is further down the road with the world as nothing but the road.But I've totally fucking had it now that I've read Y: The Last Man. This book really pisses me off to no end.I'm fine with the Amazonian self-mutilators (I can buy an angry, post-apocalyptic group of violent women).
But what I won't believe, what I won't buy, where I won't suspend by disbelief, where I am not fine is with the idea that Yorick would ever, EVER, be allowed to wander around the winter of homo sapienism with one body guard, risking his testicles for some stupid, pointless, selfish, idiotic search for the love of his life and his sister.
Ok so maybe it's just me but I found this series to be incredibly chauvinist. I know I'm gonna get flamed for it, so many ppl rave about it. I APPRECIATED IT but the premise and execution and what the women were doing, boy oh boy. I'm gonna shut up and not review this. Check box'd.
I discovered this series randomly while looking through graphic novels on Hoopla. I had never heard of it before but recognized the author. The premise sounded interesting (view spoiler)[something kills all but one man on the planet (hide spoiler)] so I decided to give it a go. I am glad I did! The story has been great so far! Every page had me interested in finding out what happens next. Also, of all the "apocalyptic" scenarios I have seen, this is the most creative by far.I am looking forward
I discovered this series randomly while looking through graphic novels on Hoopla. I had never heard of it before but recognized the author. The premise sounded interesting (view spoiler)[something kills all but one man on the planet  (hide spoiler)] so I decided to give it a go. I am glad I did! The story has been great so far! Every page had me interested in finding out what happens next. Also, of all the "apocalyptic" scenarios I have seen, this is the most creative by far.I am looking forward to volume 2!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Well, I get why everyone LOOOVES this book but some of it just rubbed me the wrong way. Like I don't understand why the entire world just stops functioning completely. Are there no female engineers or scientists or electricians in the entirety of the world?
it's a book about a world run by women after all the men die, yet it's still told from the POV of a man because conveniently !!!!
One main antagonist in this book is a group of women called the Amazons who burn sperm banks and basically celebrate the end of men, which I think is farfetched and a bit inappropriate.
The one mention of a trans man is to tell the reader that he was murdered by the Amazons because they didn't think any men should continue to live.
I haven’t read a comic book since I was a child, saving my measly allowance for Archie and his friends.
Y: The Last Man was perfect for me to start with.
I love post-apocalyptic stories and wanted some light, easy reading between school books.A plague that destroys the world’s male population, except a young man and his monkey.
Amazons who want to rid the world of the last vestige of male oppression.
Humorous dialogue, great illustrations, fun characters and a fast-paced story made me gobble this up in one sitting.
The story started out so well: fast-paced, intriguing..I can see it's a dude comic, the main character ends up being the last man left on a planet full of allll kinds of women!
It is a dude comic, after all, no?Then came this:Yorick (main char): I'm not afraid of the world...I'm fraid of a world without you.
Something like..well, this:[One thing I don't get to complain about is the artwork :) love it!]I definitely wouldn't let the immature twat set off on a journey guarded by only one person, no matter how spec op they may be.
Y: The Last Man has a great premise -- all males (of every species) suddenly die -- except one.
The story focuses on the lone male survivor and is an unraveling of why / how he survived the mysterious scourge.It helps that the last man standing is humorous and likable like so many of Brian K.
Vaughan's characters.
The story is essentially about all the things getting in his way.I wish this installment had a little more of a closing to it, but either way, I still want to read more.
That's the setup for volume one of this series that takes a look at gender issues and progressive science versus a natural order of things.
For instance, women commemorate the dead man at an obvious phallic symbol a la The Washington Monument.
Extremists women take on the role of the ancient Amazons and tear off one breast and take to believing Mother Earth meant to eradicate the males.
A good starting read, by the way, for people new to comics/graphic novels.
Some say this series saved Vertigo Comics from financial problems.
"In the summer of 2002, a plague of unknown origin destroyed every last sperm, fetus, and fully developed mammal with a Y chromosome..."an interesting premise and a solid start... looking forward to the rest of the series...Y: The Last Man, Vol. 1: Unmanned is about the only man ("The Last Man") to survive a mysterious plague that wipes out every other male of all the species on the planet ("every mammal with a Y chromosome).
Wow! I knew this was going to be good, but I'm actually blown away. I need Volume 2!!
And, oh yeah, his hobby is magic.You probably wouldn't sleep with him if he was the...well, nevermind.There he is, ladies - The Last Man on Earth.The dating pool has just gotten a little smaller thanks to a mysterious plague that has wiped out all males, cute puppies and kittens included, on the planet.
Alas, as poor Yorick and his bodyguard, Agent 355 (she really needs a nickname), set out to find the cause of the plague and a possible cure, we're left with many questions that HAD BETTER be answered in the next volumes, not the least of which is, will Yorick be able to remain faithful to his sweetie when he kind of needs to repopulate the human race?I know a good man is hard to find, but this is ridiculous.
74-75 of this graphic novel [panels cut back and forth among disputants, mostly mid-shot seen from the POV of someone relatively tall]:"Who the hell are you?""...I'm the President of the United States.
This is not an Alan Moore book (contrast "From Hell," which was about Jack the Ripper, and had both less page-to-page violence and substantially more nuance).That said, this first book of the series really exists solely to accomplish 3 tasks: introduce the premise, the principal characters, and establish the quest-like framework for the story (here's this wicked world, now try getting cross-country).
This is the first graphic novel I've read, so far.
She travelled to Australia, to be all smart and to gain some experiences in anthropology, so now Yorick is all alone, feeling like a loser, because he's not doing anything remotely as important as she and the rest of his friends do.
And just as he wants to ask Beth something important, everything changes.
Something crazy happens, I won't write too much about it, so I don't ruin your joy of reading it (but you probably know already).
I can't wait to finish reading other comics of this series.
However, if you asked THIS comic-book geek what the greatest graphic novel of all time was, and I would instantly tell you it's "Y The Last Man"!The book starts out with an intriguing premise...a mysterious plague instantly kills off every man on the planet...except for one young man named Yorick Brown.
Now, as all the women around the world start to rebuild a society without any men, Yorick goes on a quest to try to learn exactly why he survived the plague.
Sure, a plague killing off all the men and none of the women is pretty over-the-top, but the characters themselves are so deep and fleshed-out, they make the story feel completely genuine.
so - while i realize that the premise of this book is supposed to be stunning in overturning the ste
It is an interesting concept, and Vaughan at least connects himself tangentially to the literary tradition, but these connections are often too flimsy or too coincidental in construction.The worst crime of all may be that one keeps feeling that Yorick is standing in as an author surrogate; he is the last man on Earth, after all.
Of course, anyone writing this story would have to come up against this challenge, but by not really addressing the character's sexual conflict, or his motivations in general, it can begin to feel like an escapist harem romp.
Solid start to a series. Last man, one male monkey, and a whole world of women.Fortunately, he's not much of a dick. Good with cracking locks and cracking jokes. I think he's going to leave the cracking of heads to his friends. :)What is UP with those Amazons? Such a shame that people are people no matter what the sex. ; ;
Baskı biraz daha iyi olsaydı da, çizgiroman parçalara ayrılmasaydıHem ortadan ikiye ayrıldı, hem de kapağı (cildi) ile sayfaları birbirinden ayrıldı ayrılacakNe kadar zor olabilir düzgün yapıştırmak ???Onun dışında çizgiromanın kendisi epey iyi, konu ilginç, olay örgüsü aksiyon doluSüper meraklı bir yerde bitmese bile insanda devamını okuma isteği uyandırıyorBeğendim cidden
Finally, I got to read the first volume Unmanned which collected the first five issues of the series, and as much as I wasn't completely invested yet in the story and characters, I have to agree that it's an interesting beginning.
I certainly hope to get to know the other female characters who show a more promising depth but whose names I can't tell you on the spot because of how little time this volume spends presenting them and how thinly the entire storyline is spread across the five issues so far.

Prvo sto bilo koga privuce ovom stripu jeste sama postavka; sta ako sve musko umre na ovom svettu, odnosno skoro sve.Pored interesantne ideje ovde imamo i interesantne likove, fine dijaloge sa dovoljno sarkazma i humora kao i naravno odlicne crteze.Sada samo da se nadam da ce objasnjenje za sve ovo biti dobro na kraju a ne neka glupost (magic).
Maybe more like 3.5 stars, but this was pretty good.
Yorick is a bit daft, but I have a feeling there's room for growth here.
It's the end of the world and somehow all the males are dead (except for Yorick and his male "assistant" shoulder monkey), and instead of a zombie apocalypse it's a bunch of raging female extremists who are the enemy.
There's some political jokes aimed at everyone and a few pop culture references to appreciate.
I am definitely interested in continuing the series.
but there is good potential here.
A world with no Y chromosome... more like the perfect world!... AM I RIGHT???!!? ;) READ THIS REVIEW AND OTHERS OVER ON OUR BLOG:Southern Bred Southern Read Southern Bred Southern Read Southern Bred Southern Read
My husband would find random pieces of paper scattered around the house and ask me what "factories stop working, no electricity, internet cafe becomes telegraph center" meant, and I would answer, "Because all the men died, of course!" and we'd laugh about it.
I read each book in one sitting, sometimes two in a day.Most of the female characters in this series look like Maxim models, and even the straight ones engage in hot lesbian sex.
I imagine the author of this series to be like him, and this series is his personal fantasy world.I read each book the minute I got my hands on it, but in the end I was really disappointed!
All the men are dead.Yorick Brown remains after a mysterious virus eliminates every last thing with a Y chromosome.
While he’s expected to do his part in figuring out why he survived, he’s mainly concerned with finding his would-be fiancé in the outback of Australia.This would be my first experience in reading a graphic novel where the main character isn’t flying/swinging/driving around in spandex.
Not only does it hold a pretty solid spot on most top graphic novel lists, it comes highly recommended by a lot of trusted friends.
It’s interesting to see exactly what would happen if the world were suddenly devoid of men.
I was actually shocked with how quickly the world was turned upside down.
Y for the male chromosome (XX is for female). One day, suddenly all men die and after that the world goes on without them. One major problem is that men are needed for reproduction, so the world seemd to come to a certain (dead) end.Our hero is a guy - who - unlike all the other men - is still alive, facing many problems. I loved this series (as I really love other stories by Brian Vaughan) and I would definitely read more of it
”Y: O Último Homem, Vol. 1: Um Mundo Sem Homens” é o primeiro volume de uma série de dez escrito por Brian K.
1971) e o desenhador José Marzán Jr..”Y: O Último Homem, Vol. 1: Um Mundo Sem Homens” é uma novela gráfica que se desenvolve em vários cenários apocalípticos – Nova Iorque, Washington, DC, Boston, Alexandria, Baltimore, Putnam – várias cidades de diversos estados do Estados Unidos da América; Nablus e Al Karak na Cisjordânia; Tel-Aviv em Israel e na Austrália.
”Y: O Último Homem, Vol. 1: Um Mundo Sem Homens” começa vinte e nove minutos antes desse acontecimento trágico.Apesar do cliché inicial, o mundo não melhorou repentinamente por todos os homens terem desaparecido.
