https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36082326-every-note-played
His neurons are dying, and the muscles they feed are literally starving for input. Every twitch is a muscle stammering, gasping, begging to be saved. They can't be saved. I don't know what it is that makes these, um... medical dramas(?) of Genova's so damn compelling. Some writers just seem to have that certain way with words that draws you into the story and the characters' lives. It doesn't matter that her books aren't action-packed; they are pageturners anyway. Every Note Played sees a famou
She dispels myths surrounding the disease - such as that ALS sufferers tend to live a long time, like Stephen Hawking.
In both this book and Still Alice, Genova explores what it means to experience an ultimate loss of self - an intelligent woman losing her memories, a pianist losing use of his hands - and how a person must live with this.Her books are often sad books, but they feel refreshingly free of manipulation.
The intoxicating feeling of the music as Richard uses it to escape reality is a good source of relief between the progressions of the disease.In short, Every Note Played is an unputdownable character portrait that informs about ALS on a painfully human level.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
I’ve never thought of Alzheimer’s the same again since first having read Lisa’s book.
I’ve since read all of Lisa’s books.
so, although I wanted to read Lisa’s book, before I began, I had mixed feelings because I already knew this was a horrifically sad disease.
( and I knew about this disease) —-I actually didn’t know about Alzheimer’s in 2009, when I read Still Alice.Today I do know more.
I’m suggesting that ANYONE who reads this book will walk away with MORE INFORMATION ABOUT ALS than any other mainstream book.
This read like a detailed, precise instruction manual for caregivers whose patients are dying horrible deaths.
The fact that the book had characters and a plot couldn’t save it for me—I was too distracted by the endless and often gross descriptions of the ALS demon.
I might as well have been reading about a puppy getting tortured to death.It’s just me, folks.
Everyone else loved this book, so just ignore my review.
It’s so hard to admit that I hated it; I wanted to be in the gush club with all my buds.
Perhaps a fuller review to follow.Thanks to NetGalley for the advance copy.
At its core, “Every Note Played” is a novel that explores pain and suffering, love, loss and forgiveness and what it means to find peace within oneself and with one’s life.
In “Every Note Played” she expertly tells the story of a man who has ALS.
Ms. Genova makes it about Richard, Karina and Grace rather than just about the disease itself.
“Every Note Played” reminds us how important it is to hold your friends and relatives close and make sure we show and tell them each and every day how much we love them.
Once again Genova takes us deep into the world of a debilitating illness, and it's effects on the person and their family.
Genova does not spare the reader as they learn of the horrifying progress of this disease.
We read Richards thoughts as the degree progresses, as he loses not only his career, his love for his piano, but control of his body, step by step.
Karina, narrates her own story, the back story of she and Richard, and why she is doing what she feels she needs to now.Sad, yes, but this is also a novel of love, courage, second chances, regrets, responsibility and family.
EVERY NOTE PLAYED was an absolutely phenomenal book and it was quickly placed into my 2018 favourite reads shelf!EVERY NOTE PLAYED by LISA GENOVA is a deeply moving, sad, and an absolutely fantastic novel that had me totally emotionally engaged and interested throughout the entire book.
LISA GENOVA delivers an empowering and beautifully written story here with an extremely enthralling storyline that was easy to understand and follow.
I was totally in awe with what I learned about ALS, the characters courage throughout this book and the familial dynamics between the characters.To sum it all up it was an interesting, powerful, unforgettable, emotional, and an enjoyable read with a very touching, heart-wrenching, and bittersweet ending.
Informative.Every Note Played is the story of Richard, a world famous pianist who, in the midst of his thriving career, develops ALS.
Lisa Genova beautifully writes an engaging and deeply moving story that took me on a journey that I will never forget.
It is not an easy read, but it is an important one.This book impacted me so deeply.
My donation is in the hopes of research finding a cure, but also as a way to ‘thank’ Lisa Genova for writing this deeply touching and unforgettable book.
ALS. Another disease that robs people of who they are and leaves them in a carcass of who they once were. Richard, an established and famous pianist, develops ALS and loses his ability to play and so much more. His ex-wife, Karina, in a unselfish act to reconcile their differences as he nears death, offers to assist him with what's left of living.Genova is a masterful educator. Not only skilled in the neurological expertise she possesses but shares it in a story telling fashion that takes the cold science out of the disease and makes it compassionately human. 4.25⭐️
When I read Lisa Genova's  Still Alice  nine years ago, I remember how much it wrecked me emotionally. I was on a business trip and remember sitting on the bed in my hotel room, sobbing, as I finished Genova's story of a woman fighting through Alzheimer's disease.Perhaps it was the memory of the sniveling mess I was that kept me from picking up any of Genova's other books, but enough time had elapsed, so I decided to read her newest book,  Every Note Played . Once again, she balances her knowled
Beyond the disease, however, Genova looks at the years of resentment, anger, betrayal, and regret that Karina felt regarding her relationship with Richard, as well as his feelings about her.
As difficult as reading about the physical challenges is, reading about how what it's like to come to terms with the fact that you're going to die much sooner than you thought, with things remaining unsaid.The one challenge I had with the book was that while I certainly felt sympathy for Richard, he was far from a sympathetic character, and I had difficulty feeling much sympathy for Karina because she seemed fairly detached at times.
5 educational and emotionally resonant stars to Every Note Played, my first Lisa Genova novel!
As the heartbreaking effects of ALS ravage away Richard’s body and his ability to do what he loves most, he is forced to accept help, and eventually it comes from the most unexpected person, Karina.
On a personal note, my dad was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease a few years ago.
While it is not ALS, I felt an attachment because as Richard lost his ability to play piano, what he loved most in his life, I was repeatedly thinking of my dad who has lost his ability to sing due to Parkinson’s.
4.5 Stars ”If Karina had grown up fifteen kilometers down the road in either direction, north or south, in Gliwice or Bytom instead of Zabrze, her whole life would be different. Location matters in destiny as much as it does in real estate.” Growing up in Zabrze, Karina had the advantage of learning how to play the piano by Mr. Borowitz, who taught his students to play Chopin. The piano became her way out of Poland to America and to everything that life brought to her after. In America, she met
Coming to terms with this disease can’t be an easy thing to face, and just as Lisa Genova excelled in ‘Still Alice’ on the topic of early-onset Alzheimer’s, robbing the victim of memories and abilities over time, she excels in this disease that slowly robs Richard of more and more of his ability to take care of himself, to do the one thing that brings him joy: playing the piano.Eventually, he moves back to the home he had lived in with Karina before they divorced, and even while she’s offering this option to him, she can’t believe that she is offering to do this, to care for this man who was unfaithful to her, and physically and emotionally distant to both her and their daughter.
Lisa Genova has done it again – this is an absolutely brilliant book about ALS and the effects on the entire family.
Yet, when it becomes clear Richard can no longer care for himself, Richard moves back to the family home and Karina becomes his reluctant caregiver.This is not an easy book to read.
Genova unflinchingly shows us the physical and emotional devastation as ALS robs Richard of everything he holds dear.
The family is a dysfunctional one and no one talks to one another about the stuff that matters, which can be frustrating as a reader.
He has led a selfish life centered around his career as a concert pianist.
His wife Karina gave up her Jazz piano career as there were not a jazz movement in Boston.
Then she had Grace and centered her life on her.When Richard first hears his diagnosis he is in denial, as I guess most people would be.
When his arm and hand begin to stop working and he can no longer play the piano, the awful weight of this disease is finally apparent to him.The novel is told from Richard’s point of view and Karina’s.
Richard was selfish, unfaithful and never encouraged Karina’s career.
Lisa Geneva’s novels are purposely didactic, in the sense that she uses her fiction to teach.
Every Note Played focuses on ALS or motor neurone disease.
Still Alice blew me away, but some books felt like the didacticism overtook the story.
The book is fairly short and Genova does not dawdle on the progress of the disease.
Rather the story moves forward in robust increments, showing the brutal rapid devastation caused by ALS.
Besides the story of the disease, Genova does a good job with Richard and Karina.
Thanks to NetGalley, Simon& Shuster Canada, Lisa Genova, and all those who shared thier personal ALS journey in the makings of this book.
This is perhaps the most powerful book Lisa Genova has written since Still Alice.
As well, the couple's only daughter, Grace, has a rocky relationship with her father and Lisa Genova skillfully weaves this into the story as well.
Lisa Genova is the master storyteller of our era, bringing very difficult diseases( Alzheimer's, Huntington's and ALS) to the attention of her readers.
I am beyond excited to talk about this book with my fellow readers!
Every Note PlayedLisa GenovaMY RATING ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐PUBLISHER Gallery/Scout PressPUBLISHED March 20, 2018An emotional profound chronicle of the terrifying effects of ALS disease and the opportunity for redemption it brought to one family. SUMMARYRichard Evans loves the attention and applause when he plays. He’s an accomplished classical concert pianist and has played in the most famous concert halls all over the world. His fingers are finely calibrated instruments that dance across keys, making music com
Every Note PlayedLisa GenovaMY RATING 	⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️PUBLISHER	Gallery/Scout PressPUBLISHED	March 20, 2018An emotional profound chronicle of the terrifying effects of ALS disease and the opportunity for redemption it brought to one family.
And he’s suddenly, overwhelmingly terrified.”REVIEWEvery Note Played is about much more than ALS.
That is precisely what makes Every Note Played one of the best books of 2018.
Thanks to Netgalley, Gallery/Scout Press and Lisa Genova for an advanced reading copy of this book in exchange for a honest review.“Every note played is a life and a death.
High tide is coming. The height and grandeur of the sand castle doesn’t matter. The sea is eventually going to rush in, sweeping every single grain of sand away. Accomplished concert pianist Richard Evans feels blindsided when he's diagnosed with ALS. Soon, he'll lose the ability to press a single key on his beloved piano. Moreover, all the time he thought he had to deal with his regrets and resentments has suddenly dissipated. His ex-wife Karina is still angry at him for his multiple betrayals
Genova writes about people who are diagnosed with neurological disorders, but it's the stories of families navigating their way through impossible circumstances that make her books memorable.
Karina and Richard wasted so many years of their lives because they were afraid of taking the wrong step.
She also encourages readers to google Chris Connors's obituary: here's a link.• Voice Banking, (2)- Technology that allows people who are losing their ability to speak to continue using their own voice.• Part of the reason Every Note Played resonated with me is that I like stories about couples faced with difficult circumstances and bittersweet endings.
However, once she learns of Richard's illness she makes a decision that will change her life, bring her a level of acceptance and ultimately find the peace that comes with forgiveness.Ms Genova gives us an intimate look into ALS.
She writes of the care givers, generous loving people who provide for ALS patients and the support system the family so desperately need.
There is no happy ending for ALS patients, but perhaps there is hope for the families they leave behind when they know that all has been done to provide the best quality of life for their loved ones through the various organizations that provide care for these patients.
This time it’s ALS, Lou Gehrig’s Disease.
Richard is a concert pianist and is losing the one thing he loves, which is the piano.
The story is told from the alternating perspectives of Richard and Karina.
In addition to the story being about ALS, it’s also about the equation of relationships - who has the power, who is giving more, who is or is not communicating.
As Richard deteriorates and Karina has to do more and more, Genova does a great job of exploring all her emotions.
At times, the book can feel dry but at other times, the emotions explode all over the page.
Norma and I were lost in the all my heart and emotional lush coulee with three of our regular visiting Traveling Sisters reading Every Note Played.
Lisa Genova writes skillfully with knowledge and compassion as she explores a family’s journey through ALS.
We see not only the physical decline of Richard’s health but also the emotional ramification of the disease has on him as well.We found the ending so well done and love Lisa Genova’s ability to write so beautifully with understanding, hope and compassion with her characters and giving them strength in times of such heartache.
Lisa Genova does it again with another brilliant portrayal of an insidious disease stealing the life of her main character.
I wonder with each of her books just how long her formula will yield (such spectacular) results, but she got me again...glued to this compulsively readable story and in the end sobbing for its unlikeable protagonist, then for those who aided her research and for a whole bunch of people I’ve never met.
Devastating story with a redemptive quality.
I loved the author’s moving tributes to those people she met while researching this book and I applaud her efforts to raise funds for each disease she profiles in her books.
In Still Alice, she wrote movingly about a professor who in mid-life develops Alzheimer's disease and we experience the progression of that memory-stealing disease through her eyes.In this her latest book, the disease Genova takes on is ALS, ironically in the news again this week with the death of physicist Steven Hawking.
And will Richard be able to repair his relationship with his only child Grace, who feels he loved piano more than he ever loved her?I learned so much from this book: about ALS and caregivers, about Polish holiday traditions (I may bake a poppyseed roll for Easter!) and I enjoyed listening to the various classic piano pieces mentioned in the story while reading, courtesy of youtube.
All the while feeling for these characters, what was, what could have been and what would never be.This is my first book by Lisa Genova and I now join her legions of fans, she is a remarkable storyteller.
Highly recommend.P.S. I’ve avoided this author’s books, they always seemed more science than story, but with a friend with ALS and another whose college friend was just diagnosed--that’s two degrees of separation from two people with this seemingly rare, yet monstrous disease--I felt I had to tackle the subject head on.
Another heart wrenching story from Lisa Genova. Her stories are honest and told from all sides. Genova doesn’t pull any punches or sugarcoat the story but does tell it from a place of humanity. Her books will linger with you and make you think. #lisagenova
I’m a blubbering mess now."Every Note Played is an emotional and well researched story on the degenerative disease ALS.
When Richard, a concert pianist, is diagnosed with ALS he is at first in denial but as the degeneration of his muscles progresses he must face a life without his beloved piano.
Richard is a person who has a single minded love of playing piano that is at obsession level.
The music is playing him." "Without the piano, how can he live?"Genova describes the symptoms and the progress of the disease in a poetic and personally touching voice laced with overwhelming compassion.
Estranged form his father and brothers and divorced from his wife Karina, Richard had no one to help care for him when his disease advanced to his legs and he had to start using a wheelchair.
Reluctantly, Karina offers to take him in and help care for him once he can no manage on his own.Karina and Richard's marriage started to fall apart when he moved the family from New York to Boston, away from the jazz groups and venues that Karina was starting to get involved with in her developing career.
When their daughter Grace was born, Karina instead threw herself into raising their child while Richard travelled the world playing to packed concert halls.
As Karina steps up in her caring role for Richard, the two work to repair their relationship with each other and Richard’s relationship with his daughter, and soon they are faced with the ultimate, life- ending question.As always, Genova’s novels touches parts of my soul that make me grateful every day for the simple things in life.
Genova’s well-researched novels always play with my emotions, and “Every Note Played” definitely fits that role.
These two have an honest and real relationship, and never once does Genova force them back into a romantic role, which would be completely unbelievable and actually, quite cheesy.
Genova has a degree in Biopsychology and a Ph.D. in Neuroscience, and her medical knowledge adds powerful enrichment to her heartbreaking and life affirming stories that tackle real neurological diseases.In Every Note Played, concert pianist, Richard, experienced life's joy through playing piano, his expert fingers on the keys were his livelihood and his passion.
Feeling like she has little choice, Katrina reluctantly decides to be Richard's caretaker.Genova expertly explores regret, guilt and forgiveness as we witness the progression of this deadly disease.
3.5 starsDon't get me wrong, this book was pretty gut wrenching at times, had a really insightful look into the progression of ALS, and had some very realistic characters - but in the end I only kinda liked it.
But this book takes a slightly different tack, by making both of the main characters pretty unlikable even as they deal with these new horrifying circumstances.
Normally I like this kind of thing, but it just made me want to shake them seeing as the level of denial, lack of communication, their past needlessly hurtful decisions, and current lack of empathy all got to be a bit too much for me.
But I liked it, just didn't love it.
At first, I was struggling to get into this book, a quarter of the way in, I was hooked. HOOKED!!! I kept hoping for a different outcome as the story unfolded. Ugh, that ending broke my heart!! A phenomenal book!!!
