https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17383917-the-screwtape-letters
I'd especially recommend it to readers new to C.S. Lewis, as this is a good sample of his writing and a good place to start from when reading his work.One of the great things about C.S. Lewis is that, having not been born into the church, he comes with a gritty, logical look into Christianity and how the world operates, having been deeply entrenched in it himself.
Personally, I took away a number of lessons from the book, including some understanding about what it means to be charitable and caring towards my family and friends instead of doing things purely out of some spiritual pride (aka holier than thou philosophy) -- what an eye opener!
In fact, they seem to prefer the more subtle means of leading people astray, as they sense that this is a more hidden and thus secure way to accomplish their ultimate design.You cannot read this book and not think of how extremely pertinent it is to your life.
As you read the book, you are in a constant introspection of your own life, and the things that are put before you daily that lead you away from what we all desire - a close, personal, consistent, and deep relationship with God, that leads to happiness now and the hereafter.
If this book improved my view of Christians it was only because it points out that all the faults conspicuous in the rabidly faithful are equally well-represented in the uninformed agnostic, if less readily apparent--Lewis does his best to drag everyone down to a common level.The sharp weapon of Lewis's rhetoric tears down humanity through all its self-righteous hubris, denial, misdirected hopes, and easy mistakes.
Lewis' rhetoric is most deficient when he scorns one of man's many faults, then calls it a virtue in the next chapter.For example, the book begins with the demon advising that humans should be encouraged to think of things as being 'real' without ever questioning what that means.
These letters were written for the express purpose of instructing the young demon on the finer points of how to corrupt the human soul, whose name is simply referred to as the "patient", and remains unnamed throughout the story.One of the fundamental insights of this story is that this Infernal Bureaucracy is founded on the principle of consume or be consumed and it gives us a look into the battle for souls from the other side of the trenches.
These letters are short and concise, written in a way that any reader will be able to relate to many of the temptations that these devils throw at the "patient".
Young Wormwood is on his very first demonic mission and is at a bit of a loss as to how to do this. There's so many ways to corrupt, but which is the  right way to do evil?   Indeed the safest road to Hell is the gradual one--the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts...Your affectionate uncle, Screwtape. Luckily, he has his Uncle Screwtape to consult. Under Screwtape's gentle guidance, Wormwood hopes to bring another soul to their Dark Fathe
There's so many ways to corrupt, but which is the 
Indeed the safest road to Hell is the gradual one--the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts...Your affectionate uncle, Screwtape.
Under Screwtape's gentle guidance, Wormwood hopes to bring another soul to their Dark Father.
While I do not fully agree with everything said in this book, I do think that this was an absolutely fascinating look into the small ways that corruption reaches out to us in everyday life.
Those little things build up and if  they are allowed to fester, will certainly turn into something more.
It is written in a satirical, epistolary style and while it is fictional in format, the plot and characters are used to address Christian theological issues, primarily those to do with temptation and resistance to it.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم نوامبر سال 2016 میلادی عنوان: نامه های اسکروتیپ - نامه های یک شیطان عالیمقام به شیطان دون پایه؛ نویسنده: سی.اس.
لوئیس؛ مترجم: شهریار روحانی؛ تهران، نشر اشراقیه، 1369، در 141 ص، موضوع: نامه ها ، مسیحیت، قرن 20 منامه هایی ست از سوی یک مقام عالی رتبه ی وزارت شیطان (اسکروتیپ)، به یک شیطان کارآموز جوان (وارم وود).
Let me take this occasion to congratulate Your August Person and similar dignitaries of the Lowerarchy on the new method of subversion which is working so brilliantly on humanity: that of subverting the love of the Enemy into hatred of all others who did not subscribe to that particular version of the Enemy!
Humanity is indeed too dumb to understand that Love is the Enemy (even though they display posters to that effect all over, as a platitude) and that Hatred is Our Father.
In this book, C.S. Lewis tried to describe the spiritual battles between Christians and the forces of evil in a different point of view.At first, I felt uncomfortable reading the parts where Lewis referred God as "the Enemy" and Satan as the "Father" because being a child of God, I know it's the other way around.
Therefore, we must not lose hope and stand firm on our faith that God has already given us the holy life through Jesus and all we have to do is to live it and stop doing the things that are not pleasing to Him. This book provided some examples of the unpleasant things that may seem insignificant but can eventually lead to our own destruction because the devil knows how to manipulate our thoughts so we really need to be careful.5.
And they are up against “Him”; the one who lives in the churches and to whom the world attributes its goodness and life.Essentially, this work chalks out some theories on how the Devil should lure the “patient” or the human, away from his allegiance towards "Him" and secure him firm and consistent with himself.This very concept takes my bow for it takes a lot to stand on both sides and view a situation without apathy or bias.
As for Screwtape, the breaking fragments of the world and the striking resemblance it holds to a colored hoax, is the doing of “Him”, and so he takes the fundamental ingredients of daily life like belief, love, marriage, gluttony, cowardice, fidelity, freedom, unselfishness and ownership and holds them, not aloft, instead face down.
Feb 23 , 2018 I just picked this up again to read through some of my highlights.
I also wanted to mention that this book is dedicated to J.R.R.Tolkien.
While the book itself is quite small, the old English language and the style is written in, made me reread some of the paragraphs more than once.
That said, this book is full of gems.It makes you think of yourself in a way you might have never thought before.
In the end, this book was nothing I thought it would be.
Instead, the tempters focus on much more subtle sins such as vanity, pride, distraction,insincerity, forgetting or being too tired say prayers,and how these can achieve the same goal as the more obvious sins which is ultimately to lead us away from God. That's how cunning and evil the devil is.
He knows that by chipping away a little at a time he has a better chance at gaining us as his own.You cannot read this book and not think of how pertinent it is to your life.
John Cleese recently stated that he didn't think much of organized religion and told he was not committed to "anything except the vague feeling that there is something more going on than the materialist reductionist people think." The fact that Cleese, a secular comedian and atheist (or at least agnostic) was able to read The Screwtape Letters aloud and find it amusing without apparently being convicted by its content probably speaks volumes more than I could write.Oh, maybe I do know why I don't like this book after all.
With infatiguable British wit and the king of unreliable narrators, C.S. Lewis harrows Hell to tell us how a demon’s mind works in The Screwtape Letters.Years ago I thought this book was about possession, but it turns out to be far more concerned with that nagging little voice inside us that makes us mistrust our friends and family, encourages regrettable decisions, and makes us feel alone, adrift from our fellows and from God. Screwtape is a masterfully written character, revealed as much but what he hides or distorts as what he says outright.
Fantastic book!
Lewis' first "novel" (actually Pilgrim's regress was first but it's a rather oblique allegory).
It was and still is a best seller.
I can recommend it to Christians and non-Christians alike.
It's full of (yes I know it's a cliche, but here it's just true) "wit and wisdom".
You'll see yourself and everyone else you've ever known well.
You'll see situations that come up in everyday life.
I recommend it highly!This is probably my second favorite novel by Lewis...after The Great Divorce The Great Divorce, and rates up there in my favorite books of all time list.
This classic was surprisingly intriguing, definitely different from Lewis' usual works with its themes of religion and satire.
So I spent the first few pages somewhat perplexed, trying to figure out who the characters were and then once accomplishing that, reordering my brain to think backwards, because essentially everything written by Screwtape is in reverse of what Lewis means and feels about whatever subject it may be.
So as Screwtape advises Wormwood on methods of securing the damnation of a British man, my wee little brain was sprinting to keep up with the conversation as I decoded it, considered Lewis' thoughts, and matched them with or against my own beliefs.
Original post at One More PageAh Screwtape. I've heard so much about this book but I never got to buy it because the print copy was just too expensive for something so thin. I remember splurging on the ebook instead a couple of months ago, but true to form, it took me a while to read this. I know a Lewis book is never easy reading. What better time to read this one than during the Lenten season, right? The Screwtape Letters  is an epistolary novella that contains the letters of a demon Screwtape
In these letters, Screwtape tells Wormwood of particular human weaknesses and how they can exploit it, of religious weaknesses and how to make it their patient's downfall, of how they're just not in it for general mischief but snatching human souls from their Enemy.I was discussing this book with a friend a few days before I finished reading it, and he told me that while he liked the book, he didn't have the heart to review it because it struck too many familiar chords.
I loved this book! It's a collection of letters written by a senior demon (Uncle Screwtape) to his nephew, junior demon (Wormwood). Wormwood is assigned a young man to tempt and the letters turn into a kind of study on how spiritual warfare works. I've always heard that C.S. Lewis was a great Christian apologist, and now I see why. This book gave me so much to think about. I think it's the kind of book you have to read at least twice to really appreciate the gems of wisdom. So glad I finally got round to reading it!
Satire.Well, it's not for everyone, but considering that this was meant for uptight Christian prigs from 50 years ago, it's pretty good and timeless.Enter Satan, AKA Screwtape, and listen to him extolling or deriding his demon nephew on the virtues of corrupting his human charge.It's okay!
Some of it is really funny and some of it just feels dated.
But we need to put this kind of thing in its proper time and audience.
The points are still valid but the people they're about are all dead.
:)So. It was okay as a satire.
:)Big bad Satan giving brotherly advice.
I really really like this book. It's such an interesting perspective on Christianity and CS Lewis is a phenomenal story teller! I listened to the audiobook for part of this read, narrated by John Cleese, and I would highly recommend it. He is such an amazing narrator!
The Vicar himself was not overtly funny but the fact that he looked exactly like Alan Rickman provided me with great scope for reciting endless chunks of script from Die Hard which was then, and still is now one of my favourite films.The Screwtape letters are a series of epistles sent down (or up, I suppose) from a Senior Devil, instructing a more Junior Devil on the art of temptation in order to bring about the downfall of one specific individual who they call "the patient".
I am sure Senior devil, Screwtape, is offering sage advice to the trainee tempter Wormwood but his letters were too amiable and samey and without enough fire and brimstone to hold my attention.
I was a little baffled by this book as I went into it thinking it was supposed to be humorous.
Therefore, from that standpoint, the book was a let down.
That said, from the standpoint of a serious piece of "Christian fantasy" the book succeeds much better.
It is very well written and the arguments used by the writer to explain mankind's failings and how best to lead individuals into sin was interesting.
Bottom-line, as comedy not so good, but as an exploration of the causes of sin and vice pretty interesting.
It is a sign to me, therefore, of my development as an individual and reader, that I was able to sit down this afternoon and finish it off in two sessions.The Screwtape Letters is perhaps, C.S. Lewis' most nuanced and subtle work.
Through providing a narrative that covers advice from a senior devil to his junior nephew, Lewis explores issues as deep as in any of his other books but with a creative twist.
Evil, as Lewis explores it, is good twisted against its own powerful purpose.It is for this very reason that I can only recommend reading this book.
It was not what I had thought it would be.
I had heard about his other writing but never felt compelled to try them.
The Book or rather letters from Uncle Screwtape to his nephew Wormwood seemed silly to me at first glance.
I think regardless of your leanings on Christianity one would be hard pressed not to find this at least a unique peek at human nature and all its glorious virtues and failings.
Don’t waste time trying to make him think that materialism is true!
Make him think it is strong or stark or courageous-that is the philosophy of the future.
I don't know how many times I have read this, but the last time was listening to it on audio in May of 2015. Crammed with wisdom.
So, the rest is up to us.As a Meaningful Book: 4 STARS (I really liked it!)Reading this book can be disastrous if you don't know the equivalent of what God must have responded to each of the 31 letters of Screwtape.
Our body sometimes gives in to temptation (lust, gluttony, greed, etc) and the devil celebrates whenever we succumb to these things.Letter V.Screwtape: What permanent good does war do unless we make use of it to bring souls to our father below?Bible:”A time to love, and a time to hate; A time for war, and a time for peace." - Ecclesiastes 3:8K.D.: War is crazy.
This book has probably one of the easiest premises around to understand: The senior devil, Screwtape, writes advise to a junior devil, his nephew, Wormwood.
Still, it's a good book, religious or not.In fact, reading some of the reviews of it here I find that to be a true Christian this is the book that must be read.
The part which trips me up about the whole thing and makes me snicker as I read some of these reviews is that this book is comprised of letters from a devil to another devil.
I have read this book twice before but after my worship pastor mentioned a quote that I had forgotte
The points made about self-congratulatory Christians had me cheering.
I run into these smug, self-satisfied Christian bastards all the time.
I'd recommend this to them except today's evangelical and fundamentalist Christians can barely read their dumbed-down bibles, and this highly literate, satiric, epistolary format would simply be too hard to read.
Goodreads Christians excepted, of course.
One last point - the kind of who-gives-a-fuck, stupid, asinine, inane, miniscule hair-splitting rules of extremely ridiculously-rigid religious people who demand religiously-correct defined behaviors and even THOUGHTS that author Lewis is highlighting in this novel is why there are fewer religious observers every year.
So, instead, I will simply reference a few quotes that made me go, "hmmmmm...""When two humans have lived together for many years it usually happens that each has tones of voice and expressions of face which are almost unendurably irritating to the other...
Let him assume that she knows how annoying it is and does it to annoy—if you know your job he will not notice the immense improbability of the assumption.
And, of course, never let him suspect that he has tones and looks which similarly annoy her.""Humor is for them the all-consoling and (mark this) the all-excusing, grace of life.
