https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101648.This_Hallowed_Ground
The bird hopping on the cotton hill which sang Lincoln's proclamation to the slaves, the burning pine forest ringing to a chorus of 'John Brown's body' and the tramp of thousands of Union soldiers, the chaotic footrace to the ridge at the climax of the Battle of Chattanooga.At a human level the personalities of the commanders of the armies are illuminated by the things they did or said, and these small details are probably more telling of character than a full psychological exposition based on guesswork and the author's prejudices would be - Catton appreciates that we can never really know these people except through their actions and that their motives were known only to themselves.
The account is heavy on battle strategy and documentation, with some insight into politics and even less into the societal impact of the War. Historical account being the privelage of the victors, it is told from a Union perspective, but includes glimpses of the South.Overall, i liked the book.
I'm sure those who lived through it also thought it dragged in the middle, so the author was successful in giving the reader a feel of the times.I would recommend this book for those interested in non-fiction accounts of war, particularly battle details.
Those interested in politics or societal impacts of the war may find other books more helpful.
Brilliantly descriptive writing and a thorough one volume history of a fascinating period. Really paints the picture and also remains entirely relevant although written 60 years ago. More reading would possibly be needed for broader context for non-US readers. Catton just may have had a time machine.
A great single volume book on the Civil War. It obviously can't get too bogged down in detail given the restriction on size. Bruce Catton is able to describe the major battles without delving into the minutiae of military movements but still describe the general plan. My knowledge of the geography of the area was weak so having a good atlas helped understand the different movements of the armies. I loved the author's prose style. Very readable and elegant.
An excellent introduction to the Civil War. Bruce Catton's book focuses on the Union side, but he presents the War in even-handed terms. Exquisitely written. His character sketches are terrific, allowing the reader to get a sense of players in the war with a few paragraphs. This holds up pretty well, even though written over five decades ago.
Then there is a soldier from Indiana who, after the Union army is finished storming up Missionary Ridge against great odds, sees a Confederate general waving his saber at him and calling for his men to attack.
Seeing this, the Union soldier throws down his bayonet and charges the general with his bare hands, causing the Confederate to blink, then quickly run away.
A Union general sees this, and asks the soldier why he attacked with bare hands.
Bruce Catton’s poetic account of the trials and tribulations of the United States’ single most compelling historic event, The Civil War, is captivating.
If one limits oneself to reading one book about the Civil War, this is the one to read.
The States’ Rights bullshit pedaled by historic charlatans and Antebellum South sympathizers as the primary cause of the Civil War is never considered by Catton, and rightfully so.
If you are looking for a detailed book on the battles with a heavy emphasis on them, then you will be better served reading Shelby Foote's books or James McPherson's BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM.
What this book does better than others is put the Civil War in the perspective of the entire flow of American History and and presents how the war affects the future history of the country.
Bruce Catton is my favorite writer on the Civil War. His book A STILLNESS AT APPOMATTOX is the best book I have ever read on the war, but this is a close second.
This book tells the entire story of the civil war from the North's perspective with just enough detail on the major battles to cover the basics and still be under 400 pages.
For example from the last chapter of the book, just after Lee's surrender at the Appomattox Court House."Grant stayed in character.
He heard a banging of guns; Union artillerists were firing salutes to celebrate the victory, and Grant sent word to have all that racket stopped - those men in gray were enemies no longer but simply fellow countrymen (which, as Grant saw it, was what the war had been all about), and nothing would be done to humiliate them."Lee and Grant were men of character.
Vivid account of the entire Civil War, with particular attention paid to the western portion, and writing that's both dryly sardonic in places and appropriately outraged by the general waste of life. Could have dwelled more on the the role of black soldiers--it's discussed, but not in great depth--but maintains an appropriate focus on the role of slavery in bringing about and extending the conflict.
Catton was esteemed by many as the 20th century's expert on the American Civil War. There is an abundance of thousands of books on this topic; if you seek a single volume overview of the conflict, this 1957 account with its broad narrative sweep, almost journalistic in tone, could suit. Bear in mind, though, that it intentionally tells the war from the Union side. For a balanced telling, the McPherson.
This is a reissue of a tremendous one volume history of the Civil War by the great historian, Bruce Catton.Marvelously written with drama and breadth, Catton begins with Bloody Kansas and ends, of course, with Appomattox and the death of Lincoln. It’s filled with backstories of all of the players great and small. He artfully ties all of the disparate battles into a narrative that one can’t put down no matter how much or how little the readers knows of these events.Four jimmys out of five.
I love Catton but this one was a little bogged down by flowery prose. A great synopsis of the civil war from the Union side. Battles are covered briefly, the focus of this book is more towards why and how events happened.
The perfect introductory volume for learning about the causes of the civil war, the political and military mayhem endured throughout the war, and the major battles. Highly recommended.
I never been so moved by a history book. Beautiful and powerful.
Must read for anyone interested in America's Civil War!
Bruce Catton is the classic and still the best
Absolutely brilliant.
Chiefly a military history.
One of the most readable books on the entirety of the Civil War.
As they moved down the red roads of Georgia, cutting a swath sixty miles wide from flank to flank, they were the conscious agents of this destruction; men who trampled out the terrible vintage of the grapes of wrath, led by an implacable general who was more and more coming to see a monstrous but logical destiny in his mission."As the march south continued, one soldier recorded that "the Army had lived high on the products of Georgia and were growing fatter and stronger every day." He added that "they had come to look upon the trip as a grand picnic, and were not getting tired but more anxious to prolong it than anything." Sherman reached Savannah at the end of December, wiring Lincoln to offer him the city as a Christmas present.
I would begin the conversation by saying this is likely a 4.5 star book, and for many a page, 5 stars for the swift and sheer eloquence in which Catton takes a dreadful age in American history and recollects it so poetically as if he were there, standing astride the battlefields himself to report upon it afterwards.
It is an educator's Civil War bible, covering each of the critical turning point battles, most well-known, some not.
Catton's coverage is precise without being pretentious, forlorn and wistful in the wake of such sacrifice and an altogether fascinating read on, arguably, the most important conflict in our nation's history.
An Amazing One Volume History of the Civil WarWhen I was a freshman in college, way back in 1986 I happened upon a Bruce Catton (1899-1978) book in the bookstore while buying all of my textbooks for my first semester.
I picked it up just because I was in a mood to be educated with something that looked more interesting and less daunting than my economics and math textbooks.
My fascination with all things Civil War began with that book (I sold it in a fit of stupidity a couple of years later).
Bruce Catton did just that.)...Read more at: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2011/...
Best single volume history of the war that I have yet to read.
Obviously they are made apparent but only in the way in which they effect the north.
To go along with this the prsentation is obviously very nice to the north and it's characters but not in most ways unfair to the rebels either.
Equal respect and admiration seems to be paid to all which allows for the story to unfold without the cult of personality kind of stuff the infects so much war literature.
If I had to suggest one book to read about the war this might be it.
Before the publication of "The Killer Angels," I would have easily declared this the best book of history, on any topic, ever written.
Really, Catton's book and Shaara's are so very differentin scope and tone that they augment, rather than compete.
Whereas Killer Angels focuses on the story of a war as played out in the experiences of one man, here Catton provides an eagle-like overview of the period.
The tragedies of war - and overview or not, Catton doesn't gloss over them - have a quality of inevitability which makes them more terrible than any mere mistakes or misjudgments on the part of the merely human actors.
Absolutely the best single volume treatment of the war that I have ever read.
Catton takes no sides, but in a matter-of-fact way describes all aspects of the war.
He treats all fronts equally, and even delves into some of the more unknown aspects and stories of the war.
He is very descriptive, yet not overly so; this book is a fast read, and only took me a long time to read because I was determined to enjoy the pleasure of reading it.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in an over-arching single-volume book about the American War Between the States.
Different treatment of the main characters Grant, Lee, Lincoln. It is not historical fiction, but I am enjoying it. I may read more of his books.I finished it today and kind of hated for it to end. According to other reviews it is a review of the CW from the morthern perspective. I did determine this ater while. However it was not slanted and seemed objective. I feel like I am gettingt to know Lee, Grant and Lincoln better.The author does explain diferent perspectives of what was happening, so it is not hust a history book.
This is possibly the best book I've read on war...period.
It is well researched history written by a man with a poet's touch.
It is a joy to read.
This is a comprehensive look at the Civil War, touching on the major themes and events.
It omits many of the dealings in the Transmississippi and never mentions many generals, but it is a great single volume look from the spark to the extinguishing of the war.
For military officers, there are many lessons to be learned reading this.
For the general public, there are more lessons to be learned.
This narrative of the American Civil War reads like a hybrid novel/journalist's account of the war. It's a great overview for the reader that wants to know more about the events of the war, without getting too much into the details of the military tactics and the specific battles. I would recommend this book to the general reader of American history, but if you want more details on particular battles or people, I'd suggest reading other more specific books.
With few maps but clearly written descriptions of battleground settings and well defined personalities this is a complete and detailed overview of the Civil War. In spite of the horrible human wreckage that occurred this book was a joy to read. Almost poetry. Something to read out loud to yourself as well as others.
