https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13568094-gentleman-s-agreement
I'd never heard of it until a friend picked it for our book club's February selection, spurring probably the best discussion we've ever had.The novel's current lack of visibility might be due in part to its Amazon blurb: The plot of GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT concerns the experiences of a young Gentile writer who poses as a Jew in order to secure material on anti-Semitism for a series of magazine articles.
The first people he meets are his new editor - who gives him the assignment of writing a series on antisemitism - and the editor's niece - who inspired the idea for the assignment and becomes the love interest/second main character.
The gist is this: Schuyler Green arrives in New York to be a staff writer at a major liberal magazine, and his editor assigns him a series on anti-Semitism.
Green is a method writer, though, and resolves to do something a little controversial: he’ll live for a while as a Jewish man, and write the series about prejudice as it is experienced.
— Michelle Anne Schinglerfrom The Best Books We Read In July: http://bookriot.com/2015/08/03/riot-r...
You know what? I didn't like this book. It was self-righteous, full of fallacies, and is an early example of political correctness--the bad kind. I didn't feel this way about Focus or Kingsblood Royal.And in addition, it had at least two Jewish anti-Semites who weren't called on their anti-Semitism (along with one who was). This angers me.I dislike Consenting Adult even more, and I'm not going to finish that one.
Of course, the fascinating thing to me is how the themes of this book apply to all prejudices.
As the main character Phil works through his own experiences and discovered prejudices, we see what happens in the mundane life.
How dare you!” kind of person who believes that merely playing lip-service to the idea that this stuff is, of course, unconscionable that it makes you not prejudice.
The author gets at the heart of this inertia by explaining that people don’t want to stand up for this kind of thing and fight because they like the position they are in.
Gentleman's AgreementIt's always wrong to watch the movie first.
(I watched Gentleman's Agreement again 3 weeks ago.) The book is usually so much better.
The movie starring Gregory Peck only won three of the eight Oscar's it was nominated for, including Best Picture.The "gentleman" in this novel quietly accept and promulgate racist words and deeds because it aides their financial well being.
Their agreement is that "gentile" is "gentle".
It doesn't take him long to see that the prejudice is pervasive and practiced by both gentle Gentiles and Jews.
The problem is, no matter what we Americans , tell ourselves, we're still racist and sexist.
It really makes one question one's own covert prejudices.
I am on a mission to read all of our older editions and read GA just after finishing Sinclair Lewis's Kingsblood Royal.
Lewis's book is much better written, but both have a lot in common.
Of course, neither can really know what it's like to be Jewish or Black in 1940's America, but Lewis's protagonist comes far closer than Hobson's.
Jewish for a few weeks?
Come on.
At least Hobson does expose the quieter side of anti-semitism--when we stand by and say nothing about it.
If you haven't caught on, I recommend Kingsblood Royal if you were disappointed with Gentleman's Agreement...and even if you weren't!
The author never tries to justify or explain Antisemitism, but instead takes us on a slow journey of understanding and lets the frustration and, at times, rage build within the narrator and us.
We experience both subtle flicks and outright discrimination, see the pain of name-calling and hear how the ones who do feel justified in their assumptions.The tone of the book was refreshing in a throw-back way, much like "Mad Men" on TV must feel (I haven't seen it) and although it was clearly set in the late 40's, it felt almost modern.
The book also explores the role of women at the time, and touches upon discrimination of other ethnic groups.
This is an amazing book as relevant today as it was in 1947.
Prejudice is alive and well today unfortunately but just may not be as obvious as it was in 1947.
My boyfriend is Jewish and while I always thought that there was no prejudice in me I could see parts of me in Phil's girlfriend.
This book is well written and a just plain good read.
I did also enjoy the movie but the book conveyed more subtle aspects of the challenges that Phil faced.
I had seen the movie made of this book, starring Gregory Peck, many years ago, and it always stayed with me.
It's based very closely on the book, which concerns antisemitism.
Written in 1947, it's a little dated now, but it's not difficult to see how the behavior of people who believe they're not prejudiced, as well as those who are openly anti-Semitic, could apply to any groups of minorities today.
It was a sensation at the time, because it revealed that Darien and New Canaan, CT were 'restricted' towns, where is was considered anti-social to sell or rent housing to Jews.
I don't think I can "review" this mid-century novel; I'm almost compelled to do research and write a paper on it.
I'd like to know more about its reception with its initial publication in 1946, so soon after World War II and the Holocaust.
This certainly makes you think about the prejudices that people who claim to be free of such still harbor.
And especially why we let others get by with their hateful, hurtful remarks and actions.
While this book is pointedly about anti-Semitism, it surely resonates with the world around us with shootings and Ferguson, MO, and guards along our borders.
He discovers that even Jews are prejudiced against certain perceived "types," and that his best friend, a Jew, has spent years never showing how angry he is about the systemic prejudice he and his family and friends have suffered.Whatever technical problems I found in this book, they were mitigated by both the message, and the fact that the characters, though flawed, were adults, not dewy-eyed kids with a mission, or schoolyard bullies.
When they're afraid to call their friends, acquaintances, co-workers, and even family members on prejudice, either overt or covert, they become part of the problem.
It is interesting to note that Ms. Hobson herself was, like the main character, a journalist - write what you know - though not a man.
This too may have been extracted from real life as she had a child at the time who was born out of wedlock, as well as an being a single mother with another adopted child.Interesting too that the author voices the notion that acceptance of Jews would act as a test case for the further emancipation and integration of blacks in American society.Overall an enjoyable and thoughtful read, and though the language and social customs date it, the underlying message endures.
Some books deepen the story, expand the world with additional characters and events, provide further insight into what we saw on the screen.
Or sometimes the book is so well-written that the prose themselves make it worth the read.
The one edge the book has over the movie is a little more insight into Kathy and her train of thought.
The story is a good one, that applies as much today as it did then, and to any sort of prejudice, not just antisemitism.
They made a very good, very faithful adaptation of the book.
The shock of the Holocaust still fresh, yet in America people still had learned little.
Meaning of course no Jews or African Americans allowed.
This book deals specifically with Jews.
Phil Green is a widower with a young son.
His first assignment is a series of articles on antisemitism in America.
So a Christian decides to become a Jew for 8 weeks.
And he learns why antisemitism is wrong.
Phil begins to wonder if the woman with whom he has fallen in love is deep down not tolerant of Jews.Gregory Peck starred in the movie many years ago.
I recommend both the book and movie.
I wanted to like this book a lot better than I did.
I was not expecting nonfiction, but the book did stay on the bestseller lists for a good number of months when first published in the 40s.
The journalistic postures are pretty much expected.
I expected better, more serious, more thought-provoking.
Because I may have expected too much I gave it four stars and I shall leave it there.
It's an easy read.
You might wish to read the sample chapters provided before downloading the whole.
It really saddens me that the Jewish people were so discriminated against after everything that was done to thousands upon thousands of families .
Books like these, show us that anyone can truely change their attitude about something or someone if they try hard enough, or who have people in there lives who aren't afraid to stand up for whats right.
I liked how Phil found another way to do his article and actually persuaded people to think he was Jewish to get the inside scoop.
Also I liked the way he helped his son understand what was going on, on a level that Tom could understand and so forth.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/3109567.htmlIn the novel, Hobson is able to take us into the heads of Phil and Kathy, and Phil is a lot more nuanced on the page than on the screen.
It's a case where telling rather than showing is the way to go; the novel makes it clear that Phil and Kathy's relationship is physical, and likewise that Dave and Anne have an affair.
It feels more fair to Kathy and makes Phil more interesting than the screenplay does.
But the story came alive for me on the page as it had not done on the screen.
A newly hired reporter for a liberal news journal is assigned to do a series on anti-Semitism following the end of WWII.
Struggling to find an angle for the topic, he resorts to a formula he used successfully in the past for an article on coalminers – he will simply tell people he is Jewish and record what follows.
What follows are the unexpected complications of a seemingly simple plan and the awakening of both the reporter (and readers of this book) about the subtle (and not so subtle) ways that prejudice works.
This is a very interesting read. A writer decides to be Jewish for a period of time to see how antisemitism works. the book was written in 1947 some some things were more overt than now. Je quickly starts to identify as Jewish and becomes angry at the injustice. You could adapt this the any other group in today's society.This books gave me much to think about. I would encourage everyone to red this.
Meh. Some great passages on the inadequacy of silent condemnation of anti-semitism (or any racism), and on the fiancée's emotional growth in realizing that she must actually take action or she will remain part of the problem. But the surrounding story is not very compelling; and the plot denouement is more about the romance than the social issues. I was surprised at how little detail was given to the anti-semitism, compared to the rest of the plot.
A bit outdated but I can see how relevant it must have been in the early ‘50’s. Sort of what Muslims in America have been experiencing since 9/11 and even more so now that there’s an idiot in the White House who spreads a message of hatred for everyone except his white rich Anglo Saxon connections! Sorry to get political in my review. Fairly quick read!
this was written in 1947, compellingly telling of antisemitism, both overt & covert, in Americathis is true and disgusting & I faced it daily growing up (I was born in 1940)"dirty Jew"...a very well-written study that's valid today, unfortunately
Social StudiesI had heard of this book when I was very young but this is the first time I'd been introduced to it. The book was effective as to antesemitism but I didn't care for it as a novel. L
Fascinating. This book is copyrighted 1947 yet this topic is still relevant today.
I liked the movie but found the book rather coarse.
The writing is dated, the characters are incomplete, but, unfortunately, the message resonates.
A bit dated, but it doesn’t hurt to be reminded.
I saw the movie first and had to read the book. The book was better than the film, but the film conveyed all the key points of the book, even if the book was a bit edgier in tone and some of the elements of the plot. Recommended.
The point of the novel would seem to be raising awareness about how widespread antisemitism is, and it no doubt achieved that to some extent, but more than half of the book is devoted to the romance plot, though the issue of antisemitism is skillfully intertwined - the second act arguments that imperil the romance arise naturally from Green's imposture and the difficulties it causes and decisions it forces on the couple.
But he had done it.Somewhere in the 1930's each had labored long and done it.What dark unconscious hatreds must have been operating in those very authors that made them, with a world of subjects to pick over, finally choose these subjects and stay unswerving to their purpose through the long months and loneliness of writing!
