https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201646.The_Woods_Are_Dark
This is the first book I've read by the author, and it was pretty good, if a little insane.
Neala and Sherri are handcuffed to one of the trees and the other four to another.
Their abductors soon haul ass - and quickly get out of there - though it's not long before one of them (Johnny Robbins) returns; as he has a bit of a fixation with Neala.Anyway, once both groups have been uncuffed - it's a fight for survival; as they are relentlessly pursued by the Krulls.The Krulls are bad enough, but Lander seems to have had a beast hiding inside of him - and due to his current situation - it's just itching to be set free.I read the restored and uncut version -and it was quite good.
This was the first Laymon book I ever read when I found the paperback for sale in a Target store book section, Complete with the sleazy foil cover. I was so pleased when Cemetery Dance published this "Uncut Version".
It is filled with gory, absurd, blood-soaked sexy times, cannibal feasting and f*ck fest with your usual suspects of inbred crazies and no shortage of the infamous rock hard Laymon nipples.Good time granny hammer fun, backwoods cannibal lesbian love, a dried dozen-dick necklace, riding the Cordelia train, Krull heads on a stick, Sheri is bi for Neala pie and the best vacation Lander has ever had.Yep. That about sums it up.
But, it should be noted that I’m a weirdo and was laughing out loud in all the inappropriate places.If you have delicate sensibilities then I would probably stay far, far away from this one.
3.5 Stars rounded up to 4 based on the non-stop-bloody-inappropriate-crazy-fun factor.
I also read the longer "Original Uncut Version" of this book.https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...However this one does the trick.
Read the whole book in about 3 hours.
Very much like watching a crazy batshit insane horror movie.
Really not so much horror as pure insanity.
This book might be the original "Wrong Turn" as it's very much in a similar vein and tone, and even though an earlier work it's still full of Laymon's signature WTF delights.
Loved it, and highly recommend that if you haven't read it yet, get it - check your brain at the door and run screaming naked through the woods for a few hours with this one.
Even though you kidnapped me, and were going to sacrifice me to the cannibals, I am now IN LOVE with you, so let's go outside and have the BEST SEX of my life while the cannibals watch!" (hide spoiler)] - and you've got a book that is more likely to induce chuckles than shivers.The only exception, AND the reason this book gets two stars instead of one, is the character of Lander Dills, who begins this adventure as a mild-mannered, literature-spouting, professorial-type and ends it as a depraved, lust-obsessed, though still literature-spouting, wild man.
I wasn't sure at first what to expect from this book, but it was excellent and amazingly weird and creepy. If you love horror this is definitely worth reading.
I know Laymon has a bit of a bad reputation (as in, he’s known for writing trashy horror), so I was a bit hesitant when starting this short tale of a few people lost in the woods and on the run from an incestuous family of cannibals that .
Laymon did a good job, here, of giving me just enough information to make the characters distinctive and likable without getting bogged down in back story.
This one is all action, all horror, from the start.
Richard Laymon penned the line "his cock felt like a fiery log" and for that alone he deserves two stars.
His daughter wrote a little story about all of this and published it into the first few pages of The Woods Are Dark.
If you read the 1981 version, do yourself a favor and read the one published in 2008.When I first chose to read this book, I really liked the premise of the story and knew that I was in the mood yet again for a Laymon book in full Laymon style.
But placed in this situation, people will do what it takes to survive and you wonder who is bad and who is good anymore.Of course I have to recommend this book to anyone who loves Laymon's writing.
Being up in the wilds of Scotland in the midst of truly terrible weather the idea of reading a rural horror novel was quite appealing so, as I had managed to leave some of my selected reading at home, I decided to give it a whirl.As a teenage reader of James Herbert, Shaun Hutson and their ilk in the 1980s I was prepared for a dubious level of taste and literary quality but nothing could have prepared me for just how staggeringly badly written and juvenile this book is.
The nipple-obsessed Laymon appears to have written it entirely for a demographic that is well represented by one of the characters in the novel, a socially inadequate and barely pubescent boy called Timmy who quivers at the sight of female flesh and gets aroused at the idea of 'copping feels' from tied up women.
Atmospherics and edginess always play a huge role in Laymon's books and he has some unique tricks in his bag that never seem to fail for me.Granted, after reading a few of his novels an astute reader recognizes plot devices that are being reused, albeit some shifting and name changing, but if you liked them the first time you will enjoy them the second.The way out in the woods for a while vibe is one of his time tried and proven techniques for building suspense.
The writer makes me feel as if I am also.This is a great read to start Laymon with.
This book was AWEsome!! Just non stop absurdity after another which, come on! That's why we love him! From over the top Jenny who knew way too much about how to kill people to Neala, Sherri, and Cordelia, three women whom I really enjoyed. Poor Cordelia! Just don't know how she managed to suffer through initiation into the Krulls. Wow! I might rather die. And what the heck with the thing in the pit!? That was never explained, therefore this desperately needed a sequel! Another great read from laymon. Definitely gave me my fix!
One of my favorites by one of my favorites. Period.
the little girl, ummm, teenage girl, ehhh, prepubescent gal just pulled up her anchor and floored the gas pedal of her jetboat and, oh!
she used the anchor as a bola to slay...she helped her mother and some travellers-to-be-victims and one towner who got stung by his conscience defeating those albinic mutant freaks and sick fuck townies and hauling their all asses out of that shithole.
totally, that sounds nuts, right?
but it was from laymon, his sounding nuts became this absolutely high-speed-pacing read.
was there any mutants who'd got pinched by their conscience too?
This is not a book to be read by people susceptible to gore, horror, necrophilia, cannibalism, pedophilia and other...
You have been warned.This book is relatively small, with only 215 pages and right from the first chapter you are inside the rollercoast that finish in the last page.You've got two separated sets of characters that are captured and left as food to some strange human beings, probably the result of inbreeding.
When I read this book, everything is/was fiction right?
If it was possible to remove all sensitive issues of our fiction -we should have only a handful of boring books avaiable to read.
Over-the-top insane Grindhouse-style fun.You can't take things too seriously when a book is about hapless travelers that find themselves left in the woods as sacrifice to a group deformed imbred cannibals.
If you read this book, it should be strictly for the cannibals in the woods.
So, if creepy ass cannibals in the hands of an author that is known for going "too far" doesn't scare you off, I think you might have fun with this one as well.* I read the restored "Original and Uncut" version from 2008, not the original 1981 release that was apparently heavily edited by the publisher.
Los turistas que pasan por Barlow, un apacible pueblo americano, se encuentran en un odisea por su supervivencia.
Por un lado, tenemos a un par de amigas, y por otro a una familia de cinco miembros.
Ya desde la primera página, en que estas dos jóvenes tropiezan con un ser mutilado en la carretera que las intenta perseguir, nos vemos inmersos en la acción, en un ritmo frenético hasta el final.Quien haya leído ha Richard Laymon, ya sabe a lo que se enfrenta.
‘Sangre en el bosque’ (The Woods Are Dark, 1981), es un producto de terror de serie B, con todo lo bueno y lo malo que esto conlleva.
Es un producto muy ochentero, de consumo rápido, realmente entretenido.
Lander got naked and ran through the woods.Ben didn't make it.
Lost a finger, they would not be denied.Sherri straddled the fence, she was bi.Neala felt their friendship was a lie.In the Woods, would they live or die?by NikkiWell, it started out fun then ventured into outlandish.
~Lander lost his mind a little too quick.He was checkin' chicks out before he even found out about his "loving" wife.~Johnny and Neala doing the nasty OUTSIDE while on the lookout.~Sherri watching.~Sherri's reason for watching.~The story of the Devil.It was fun to a certain extent and that's all I can say.
I have wanted to read Richard Laymon for a long time now, and this was the first.
This is a do not go out into the strange woods for there may be real sickies that might want to eat you story that we have all heard before.
It however goes flat for the next fifty percent of the book.
I found myself wanting the story to move on.
After the opening sequence that I enjoyed, too much was flat and dull.
Oh well, I will read more by Richard Laymon but cannot really recommend this one.
The Woods are Dark is my first Richard Laymon book and despite the bad reviews I still decided to read it. I'm not going to lie, it's all types of weird, but fast paced and very entertaining. I'll definitely give his other books a try.
Изключително наивен и нелогичен сюжет, но пък изпълнен с извращения, гнусотии, кръв, черва, приключения, изнасилвания и ... забава.Да! Забава. Ако искате да се забавлявате час-два, това е книгата, която ще ви осигури убиване на времето ви.
While not as complex as some of his latter books, THE WOODS ARE DARK is still an extremely strong novel with a rawness to it that makes for excellent reading.
Three groups of people are attacked by the cannibalistic forest-dwelling family called the Krulls.
The three groups (hikers, a vacationing family and a local) deal with the attacks differently and try to survive as best they can.This is where Laymon is his best.
But hey, maybe this is the best when you find yourself attacked by cannibalistic humanoid forest dwellers.
A very weird story.
But I loved the fast pace of the story, and it was truly creepy as hell.
Even though the story jumped from character to character often, the book flowed well and was easy to follow.
Sometime, so much action & mayhem were going on, I didn't want to put it down...
it only took a little over a day to read, at a very leisurely pace.
I did catch myself wondering what was going on in the author's head a few times, it was so twisted.
I'll definitely read more Laymon books, but geez I had better be prepared for one crazy, creepy ride.
2.5 esperaba más del maestro gore de la literatura. Sé que este libro fue prácticamente destruido por los editores y que el mismo Laymon llegó a decir que fue el que "arruinó su carrera" en EEUU. Por eso, le daré la oportunidad a otros de sus títulos. Espero que me sorprenda.
Worst of all is Lander, father to Cordie and husband to Ruth, but none of that matters because as soon as he catches sight of a pair of female Krulls (savage, mutant/deformed, humanoid cannibals who enjoy the feel of the wind on their nether regions as they hack their victims to death with whatever blade is handy) having a little lesbian fun during bath time all thoughts of the likelihood that his wife's brains are currently being eaten out of a bowl made from the top of her skull go straight out of his head.
People that don't read in the genre have some vague notion that horror is just some ridiculous bloody chop shop with tons of gore and naked people running around with little to no character development.
Well, this book is what gives the horror genre a bad wrap."The Woods are Dark" is the epitome of every B-Horror flick you've ever seen.
I did like the idea of these kidnapped people becoming savages themselves in an effort to turn the table, so to speak, and there were some undercurrents in the novel that, had they been better developed, could have turned this into a much more sophisticated read.
4 AND 1/2 STARSThis restored and uncut version of Richard Laymon’s near masterpiece of sex and violence is a reason to celebrate.
Never one to hold back, author Laymon throws everything but the kitchen sink at the reader with this one.
Laymon is not shy about pushing the envelope on sex and violence and this book takes it to another level.
Fans of hardcore horror will be celebrating with glee at some of the character’s situations and decisions.
For fans of Wrath James White, Jack Ketchum, and Edward Lee. For me, this gets a huge guilty-pleasure recommendation.
The rising action begins quite quickly, and there were some definite twists and turns in the plot which provided some fun.
However, I was quite disappointed with most of the action after the climax.
It seemed like the plot just couldn't be held together very well and began to unravel.
I felt like the ending was satisfying, but it really didn't seem like he spent much time thinking out the truly disturbing final turn that the father could have provided with his decent.
It was quite similar to Offseason, but I tended to like the characters more in Ketchum's book.
Este libro es fruto de su época y tiene como referencia total las películas slasher de los 80 a lo "Viernes 13" o "Halloween" .
Leyéndolo me he sentido como viendo una película de estas y su argumento me ha recordado muchísimo a "Los chicos del maiz" de Stephen King.Sangre en el bosque nos cuenta la odisea de un grupo de personas por sobrevivir a los "seres" que habitan en el bosque cercano al pueblo de Barlow.
Estos seres apodados los Krull obedecen a una entidad más poderosa y se alimentan de los turistas que la gente del pueblo les proporciona como sacrificio.Es un buen relato de terror pero para mi gusto les sobran algunas páginas que aportan poco a la história.
