https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/855022.The_Thread_That_Runs_So_True
I reread this book for a Bookclub this month.
I always love books of simpler times.
It's a pretty inspiring biography of a time when lots of sacrifices were made to be both a teacher and student many of whom really did the things we hear about in the old time stories like working for $60 a month or walking 7 miles to school, barefoot, in the snow.
This is a nice little piece of Americana.
Jesse Stuart was a schoolteacher in the 1920's and 1930's in Kentucky.
Pay was low, conditions were hard, but his love of teaching shines through, as does his rural students determination to get some kind of education.
A lot of his behavior would land him in jail in today's world, but it was a different time.I had a hard time with his being a teacher at 16, a high school principal at 23, and a superintendent at 24, but as I said, it was a different time.
Teachers should find this book fascinating.
Since it was a memoir about teaching, I decided to give it a try.The strengths of this book actually made me kind of sad...specifically, the author is very straightforward about the economic and professional issues facing teachers.
While some of his teaching methods resonated, I had some difficulties with the justifications for violence in the book.
The descriptions of conflicts sometimes seemed so far-fetched, I decided they had to be true...otherwise, they would make more sense!Overall, I strongly recommend this book as a first-person view of school systems in the early 20th century.
The Jesse Stuart Foundation in Kentucky will sell you a reprint, but I am keeping my old ones!!!The kind of caring teacher, principal and all around educator he was, I encountered many times in my life, but I also encountered those who should never have been put in front of a classroom.
Forget them, although they exist...if every child could run into 2 or 3 Jesse Stuart type teachers in his educational career, he/she would be inspired enough to get past the others.I give thanks now for my Elementary School Princpal, Mr. Carroll, who was an uncle to Kentucky's former governor Julian Carroll.
I don't know why I was so captivated by this book. It may be that I am a school teacher and so the themes of this book are personal to me. It may be the shock of rural life in the 30s that draws me in. Maybe it was that I couldn't tell if he was making it all up because the stories were so over the top. This to say, I don't know if you'd love it, but I couldn't put it down.
This well written, interesting, and charming book took me to Kentucky in the 1920s. I enjoyed his writing style immensely and will read more by this author.
One of our best car books--so insightful on the profession of teaching and so gratifying for 2 teachers to read!

There is a lot of living packed into this book! Stuart shares the triumphs and struggles of teaching in very rural Kentucky in the 1930s and 40s. I enjoyed the book even though I felt like it took me forever to read it. Stuart writes in a very conversational style. It's more like you're sitting by his side listening to him recall tall tales from his teaching days than reading a book.
3.5 stars .... review coming soon
Being trained as a teacher, I enjoyed reading this and I am glad I never had to go through these circumstances as a student or as a teacher.
"We never knew, when we attended a board meeting, who would come out alive or who would be left dead."I can also understand why my aunt loved this story, since she, too, was a teacher from KY.The title, “The Thread that Runs So True” referred to an old song, as well as to learning by playing, which became one of Jesse Stuart's goals for younger children.That reminded me of my mom’s slogan when I embarked on homeschooling my children for preschool.
Jesse Stuart is the reason I am a writer.
I started to read his books when I was a little kid, starting with his beginning readers and working up to books like this one around 5th and 6th grade.
He showed me from a very young age that a writer from Eastern Kentucky, from the literal middle of nowhere, can make it.
I wish I could have met him, have told him what his words have meant to be over the years, but all I can do is keep reading these great books over and over again and appreciating him in new ways every time.
A beautiful story about the importance of the teaching profession as recalled by a teacher in Kentucky in the 1920's and 30's..
This is Jesse Stuart's memoir of his life in education-from a teacher to a principal to a superintendent in rural Kentucky.
He observes:•	Children who comes to school barefoot and hungry have a much more difficult time learning•	Trustees who are in charge of schools, who set curriculum and hire/fire teachers are often less educated than the teachers themselves•	 There is a vast funding inequality—especially between rural and city schools•	Parents expect children to be disciplined in school, even while those same children run wicked and wild through the community late at night•	Communities often resist change, not because of what is best for kids but because of politics and warring factionsIt makes me realize that many of the problems that we currently face in education have actually been around for generations.At times, Stuart comes across as quite cocky—always able to beat up the bully or put a know-it-all in his place.
In the end, Stuart leaves education, but valued and vindicated.
He was an old-time teacher who got out of the profession as it was in the process of changing into what it is today.
It was good for me to get his perspectives, both as a very young man and one with more experience, and to see some of the things that teachers were up against in those times.
What I most appreciated about this book were the methods he used to reach people educationally, to help them grow as learners; the peek into another time in our country's educational life and his unique perspective on it; and his insights that came later as the schools became more systematized and consolidated.
I'll never forget the moment when my good friend in high school suggested ditching Biology.
Speaking of school, I picked up this book from the local thrift store, and thought, oh yes, I'm always interested in books about teachers working within impoverished communities...
(i realized at that moment, hey this IS a subgenre - Conrack, To Sir with Love and Educating Esme spring to mind) and at first, the book was very interesting.
I still have lingering guilt when I don't FINISH a book completely, but I now realize much like my friend's lesson about ditching a class, you can and should skip some things sometimes.
Jesse Stuart has a voice that rings true and his experiences of having to prove himself physically and politically with students, parents, school board and administration are fascinating, showing how much school life has changed, as well as insight into the personalities.
As a teacher myself, I see instances today of teachers being bullied again.) Above all Stuart's words and tales shine with the impulse of service and improvement for those around him, seeing education as a necessity for a good life, and including character improvement.
This is something I realized as a high school teacher in my first year, that one is an example and should make moral statements, for some students experience only survival tactics.
--- I've read comments about this book that Stuart's story seems a little too much like a tall-tale but for those that are not native Kentuckians or from rural America it may be hard to understand what a rural culture is like.
There is no Greenwood County in Kentucky, but rather a Greenup county just past Maysville, along the Ohio River (Big River in the book), near West Virginia.
--- At any rate, I thought that this was an excellent book and should be required reading for aspiring teachers or those wishing to enhance their leadership skills.
This book is about a teacher who starts teaching in Kentucky at age 16 before he's done with high school.
Sometimes the children would even whip them, or try to.This man did so well, he made it to principal and even superintendent.
He tried to change the system to make it a better place, but it was amazing just how well he was beaten down and how his whole town turned against him just for trying to make it so the schools stayed open.
Actions turned into perceived slights, and people were offended, even though nothing actually bothered them personally.He ends with saying that Kentucky would never change itself, it would have to be led.
Written like a 1940's thriller, Stuart describes his upbringing growing up in rural Eastern Kentucky - dirt poor but hungry for an education as a way out of his family poverty.
He suceeds and becomes an educator himself, stirring things up where ever he goes by implementing new ideas, pushing teacher equity and improved pay conditions as his agenda when he was superintendent, and on the odd occasion, using his fists to both protect his students and send a message to stay out of his schools.
An inspiring story in so many ways, but an excellent read for a new or struggling teacher how needs to be inspired and encouraged to keep on keeping on.
Ignoring the fistfight Jesse gets in with a student early on, his actions are wise and still applicable today.
One example is when he takes over a High School he changes the sign out front from "Keep of the Grass" to, "Please help Preserve Our Lawn" or something along those lines.
The end result, the grass was no longer trampled.
I have applied many of Jesse's methods from his anecdotes successfully to my teaching today.If you are thinking of teaching or just want a good read that also teaches methods of dealing with people this book is a wonderful experience.
He trounces unruly students and opposing politicians alike.
All his students are above average and his teaching techniques were the best.
Today's teachers will find it an interesting read.
One thing can be said: he was undeniably supportive of teachers and of furthering the profession.
"Within the great profession...lay the solution of most of the cities', counties', states', and the nation's trouble.
It was within the teacher's province to solve most of these things.
He could put inspiration in the hearts and brains of his pupils to do great things upon this earth." The hyperbole continued from there.
One of those books a teacher should read, this book tells of a young man's years teaching in the mountains between Kentucky, Ohio and the back of no where.
The students of the one room school house have run of every teacher sent to them, including his sister, so he takes it as a challenge to last and to teach the children something.
He comes up with great ideas such as using calendar pictures to stimulate the younger children, incorporating play into the lessons and challenging the older (intransigent) boys to real-life math problems such as how to measure the amount og coal in a wagon so both the purchaser and the seller could be satisfied.
This book was chosen for our 2015 Book Discussion group.
I have read the book before when I was in college.
It was part of one of my education courses.
If you have never read Stuart's books, I would put him on your to read list.
I love his books.
He was a voice of the Appalachian hills.
This version is a biographical novel about Jesse's first years as a school teacher.
As someone who was education to be a teacher, the hardships these people had to go through just to educate children was unbelievable.
. He certainly has his own voice and views.
Stuart depicts education for what it was/is still to this day sadly (largely in Kentucky and across the continental US): a transitional career for many, due to state restrictions, politics, and lack of resources. His writing is overly sentimental, but what else can it be? He's describing a place he wants to remain loyal to, but the external conditions won't allow it. This reads like Mark Twain but more exact, with more depth and heart.
This is a book that was loaned to me by a coworker. It's an autobiography of a man who taught in a one-room schoolhouse, grades K-12, and was published way back in 1949! It was an interesting read, thinking about all that he went through as a one-room schoolhouse teacher, a principal, a superintendent, and how many times his life was at risk for what he did. I didn't find him to be a very passionate writer, with a lot of detail about how he was feeling along the way, so that hung me up a bit.
I had to read this for a high school English class, so of course I expected it to be dreadful. Surprisingly, it turned out to be inspiring and thought provoking. As the daughter of a middle school teacher, I am all too familiar with the plights Stuart faces when confronting the monarchy of education. He brings a humble and determined character to teaching, and his honest approach is refreshing. This is a great novel for students, teachers, and anyone questioning superiority.
A fun true-life-adventures-teaching-school story, in the genre of one-room schoolhouse stories (well, at least it starts with a one-room schoolhouse, though it ends in a larger school; well, actually it ends on a sheep farm, but that's another story...). Has a bit of a tall tale feel to it, although it's supposed to be a true autobiographical account. Something of an apologetic for the importance of the teaching profession, with frequent hints that teachers aren't paid enough.
Inspiring.
