https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33917.The_Namesake
By the end of that same year she was flying of to Houston to be wed to a man she had only seen once, a marriage arranged by their parents.
Many nights my other roommate (an exchange student from Berlin) and I would sit out on the balcony smoking cigarettes and marveling at the concept of an arranged marriage in the new millennium.
Perspective shifting from parent to child and back again, it’s an engaging view of an immigrant family in America.
The pace in which she tells it is exactly equal to looking back on the memories of a life lived.
This story is the basis for The Namesake, Lahiri's first full length novel where she weaves together elements from her own life to paint a picture of the Indian immigrant experience in the United States.
Both Ashoke and Ashmina desire that Gogol have a Bengali life in America despite being one of few Indian families in their area.
Lahiri even creates a character based on her own immigrant experiences who desires an identity different than Bengali or American and seeks a doctorate in French literature.
As in Interpreter of Maladies, Jhumpa Lahiri paints a rich picture of the Indian immigrant experience in the United States.
I read to escape the boundaries of my own limited scope, to discover a new life by looking through lenses of all shades, shapes, weirds, wonders, everything humanity has been allotted to senses both defined and not, conveyed by the best of a single mortal's abilities within the span of a fragile stack printed with oh so water damageable ink.
The end result was a feeling of being able to read this story quickly, yes, but through a thick layer of cellophane that left in its wake singular feelings of why am I bothering and its good old pal, am I supposed to care?There's another piece of terminology that writing classes love to throw around in addition to that previous standard, and that's voice.
And these were the bits of the story that I could relate to in a way, being a first-generation immigrant myself."For being a foreigner Ashima is beginning to realize, is a sort of lifelong pregnancy -- a perpetual wait, a constant burden, a continuous feeling out of sorts.
Like pregnancy, being a foreigner, Ashima believes, is something that elicits the same curiosity of from strangers, the same combination of pity and respect."The Namesake is titled so because Gogol is named after a famous Russian writer Nikolai Gogol (the reason I picked up this book, by the way.
Jhumpa Lahiri crafts a novel full of introspection and quiet emotion as she tells the story of the immigrant experience of one Bengali family, the Gangulis.
She has never known of a person entering the world so alone, so deprived." Thus begins Gogol’s life and his pursuit towards understanding and establishing his own identity as a first generation American born to Indian immigrants.
Named after Russian writer Nikolai Gogol, our developing protagonist will scorn not only his name but also his parent’s traditions, their quiet ways, their trips to Calcutta to visit family, and their “adopted” Bengali family in America – those friends with similar immigrant experiences to their own.
Enjoyed reading about the Bengali culture, their traditions, envied their sense and closeness of family.
Ashima and Ashoke, an arranged marriage, moving to the USA where Ashoke is an engineer, trying to learn a different way of life, different language, so very difficult.
Ashima misses her family, and after giving birth to a son misses them even more.
Was impatient with Gogol and his failure to appreciate everything about his parents, his own culture but he grows within the story as does his mother.
So I ended up appreciating this book quite a bit as a cultural story and a family story.
Moving between events in Calcutta, Boston, and New York City, the novel examines the nuances involved with being caught between two conflicting cultures with highly distinct religious, social, and ideological differences.
ایشان «همنام» را، نخست به‌ صورت داستانی بلند، در مجله‌ ی نیویورکر، منتشر کردند؛ و سپس در سال 2004 میلادی، طرح آن را گسترش دادند، و به صورت یک رمان درآورند.
لاهیری در این رمان، مشکلات و دشواری‌های زندگی زوجی بنگالی را، توصیف می‌کند؛ که به امریکا مهاجرت کرده‌ اند.
Nice book on struggling with intercultural identities.
I stare and stare at that sentence.
I can't believe that is all I have to say about this novel.
Which customs do they pick from which environment, and how do they adapt to form a crosscultural identity that works for them?
How is their language affected by constant switching?
All those things are contained in this Pulitzer-winning novel, and yet...All I can say is: "It's nice."And when I taught language at an international school, I used to tell students struggling with synonyms to avoid repetitive use of common adjectives:"Nice is not a nice word.
Soon after his (very detailed) birth near the beginning of the book, the main character is temporarily named Gogol by his parents because the letter containing the name chosen for him by his Bengali great grandmother hasn't yet arrived in Boston (The father picks the name Gogol because he owes his life to the fact that he was sitting close to a window reading Gogol’s ‘The Overcoat’ when a train he was traveling on crashed).
As the daughter of Bengali emigrants, I understand that she may feel a responsibility to write down the stories of people like her parents, people who arrived in the US as young emigrants and struggled to retain their own culture while trying to assimilate the new one.
Book subtitle: I will write down everything I know about a certain family of Bengali immigrants in the United States by Jhumpa Lahiri.Immigrant anguish - the toll it takes in settling in an alien country after having bidden adieu to one’s home, family, and culture is what this prize-winning novel is supposed to explore, but it's no more than a superficial complaint about a few signature – and done to death - South Asian issues relating to marriage and paternal expectations: a clichéd immigrant story, I'm afraid to say.Gogol’s life, and that of every person related to him in any way, from the day of his birth to his divorce at 30, is documented in a long monotone, like a camera trained on a still scene, without zooming in and out, recording every movement the lens catches, accidentally.
I was very interested in the scenes in India and the way the characters perceived the U.S. after they moved.
One is that Lahiri's novelistic style feels more like summary ("this happened, then this, then this") rather than a story I can experience through scenes.
I haven't read her two story collections, but I've heard she's a phenomenal short story writer--so I'll definitely give those a try.
Seems like some fantastic short story writers (like Aimee Bender and Alice Munro) are pressured to write novels when in fact they are brilliant at the story.
It's like asking a surgeon to be an attorney.
We first meet Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli in Calcutta, India, where they enter into an arranged marriage, just as their culture would expect.
When their first child is born, a son, they are awaiting a letter from Ashima’s grandmother telling them his name, which she is to have selected.
In the absence of the letter, and at the insistence of the American hospital, they select what is meant to be a temporary name.
In the end, I found this book was about expectations.
When you takeaway all the children, parents and non-single men that doesn't leave much choice.
While reading this book I kept thinking of her.The book starts off with the Ganguli parents living their traditional life in Calcutta and then their large move to become Americans.
The name of a Russian writer that his father loved.The book then starts following Gogol as he stumbles along the first-generation path.
The author really shows what troubles face first-generation children.I loved this book and was so taken by the main character.
[Review redacted in hindsight.]
With the book still open on my lap, somewhere in New York City, while walking and talking on her cellphone, my mother laid out a plan for me to help her find a place that was close to her friends from 'back home,' but still somewhere around city amenities.
Gogol's struggle with his name is reflective of the fears most young Americans from immigrant families face: being treated differently because of a name, an accent, traditions, parents who are blatantly non-American.
This name change isn't something I would pretend to know about, though I do know a few things about the struggle with assimilation and identity when moving to a new country.
3.5 stars My favorite parts of any Jhumpa Lahiri story—whether it's a short story or novel—are her observations.
Both novels I've read from her have had wonderful and memorable moments but as a whole fall a little flat for me.
The use of the third-person, present tense is also not my favorite because it convinces you that you are experiencing these things with the characters but you are held at a distance because you can't get inside their heads.
That being said, I love Lahiri and will read anything she writes because scattered throughout her works are some incredible images, strong emotions, and lovely stories of families.
Such a great book. My second book by Lahiri and it did not disappoint. Her writing is beautiful and lyrical. I did see this movie many times as it is a favorite. Even though I know the story, the book seemed new to me. The audio version was so easy to listen to. I an fascinated by Indian culture and love reading about it. I can see myself reading this one over and over again and will be watching the movie again very soon.
The name comes to embarrass their son as he grows older and is a reminder of his confused being -it's not even a proper Bengali name, he protests!Gogol's agony is not so much about being born to Indian parents, as much as being saddled with a name that seems to convey nothing, in a way accentuating his feeling of "not really belonging to anything"After much internal struggle, he changes his name to a more acceptable Indian name, Nikhil and feels it would enable him to face the world more confidently.But for me personally, the best part of the novel was Gogol's marriage to his childhood family friend Maushami Muzumdar.
The story follows their lives for 32 years from when Ashima is pregnant and facing delivering her first child the American way without the comfort of her extended Indian family and all their social customs to help her.Lahiri writes beautifully and the book is a pleasure to read.
She also sees right to the heart of the issues of migrant families, from the mother who never adapts fully to the children who try to cast off their roots but find it very difficult to do.My only issue was with the way the narrative rambles on, often about very insignificant issues yet passing too quickly over more important events.
Despite this, this is a beautiful book which tells a very important story and is well worth reading.
Like pregnancy, being a foreigner, is something that elicits the same curiosity from strangers, the same combination of pity and respect.” Those lines vouch for how beautifully Jhumpa Lahiri has portrayed the struggle of emigrants’ life in West.
Her depiction of conflict of cultures faced by the second generation emigrants is interesting.
But these MIT educated, middle class families’ struggles are completely different from what is being faced by the blue collar emigrant workers in Middle East and West.
Would like to read a good work which represents them.
Please recommend if you have read any on this area.
So an Idaho School District is considering the possibility of banning The Namesake from their high schools reading list. I don't know about other parents, but I trust that my kids are not going to read this beautiful novel and somehow plunge into a life of drug abuse...Also, I might be mistaken since I read it a few years ago, but I don't recall that the use of recreational drugs is an essential part of the plot of this novel...http://www.americanbazaaronline.com/2...
چقد ریویوهاتون خوب بودن لعنتیا. :))))چیزی نمیتونم بگم، بهخصوص ریویوی لیلی خیلی باش موافق بودم. جومپا لاهیری یه جوری مینویسه، انگار زندگی اینه. زندگی اونجوریه که اون مینویسه، نه زندگی من. نه زندگی ما. چنان توی جزییات میره که شاید از هر نویسندۀ دیگهای بخونی، فحشش بدی و کتابو بندازی کنار یا ازشون بگذری. اما همهشون جوندارن. انگار هیچی اضافه نیست. هیچ شخصیتی مهم نیست، هیچ شخصیتی هم اهمیتش کمتر نیست. داستان یک نفر دو نفر نیست. داستان یه خانوادهست، و همنام کل این خانواده رو تحت الشعاع قرار داده. تا پای
جومپا لاهیری یه جوری می‌نویسه، انگار زندگی‌ اینه.
زندگی اونجوریه که اون می‌نویسه، نه زندگی من.
انگار هیچی اضافه نیست.
هیچ شخصیتی مهم نیست، هیچ شخصیتی هم اهمیتش کمتر نیست.
داستان یک نفر دو نفر نیست.
تا پایان داستان، گوگول خیلی چیزا رو از دست می‌ده.
حتی وقتی پدرش براش تعریف می‌کنه داستانی که پشت اسمش خوابیده، براش خیلی ارزشمند نیست.
از اسمش شرمنده‌ست، و دیوونه می‌شه اگه یکی بهش بگه گوگول.
اما تا پایان داستان، تا وقتی که نامۀ پدرشو پیدا می‌کنه، متوجه عمق مسئله نمی‌شه.
در تمام سال‌های زندگیش.آه که تصفیه شدم.
کتاب که تموم شد، حس کردم تصفیه شدم.
This appears to be written specifically for Western readers with no knowledge of Indian culture. You know, a commercial, populist work aimed to give you a flavor of India, shock you with arranged marriages, Indian family dynamics, struggles of Indian immigrants, etc., which at the same time gives you no real insight into the foreign mentality that isn't superficial or obvious. Nothing new for me here. I say read In Other Rooms, Other Wonders instead if you are looking for something less trite.
Lahiri’s Interpreter of Maladies was a collection I admired more than I enjoyed, so I’m sorry to say I was apprehensive about reading her first full-length novel—but happy to report that it was an absolutely great experience.
I absolutely loved the characters (in fact, I flat-out longed for Gogol’s sister to have her own book, so intriguing did I find even the minor players), and the emotional impact of the book, for me, was considerable.
I don’t read enough novels like this, but that’s about to change.
Each of the above authors tackles this subject from a different enthnographic perspective, but the pull between the old (native) culture and the new (immigrant) one is always present.Pulitzer prize winning author Jhumpa Lahiri adds to this conversation with "The Namesake" (her first novel which was a follow up to her short story collection "Interpreter of Maladies" which won the Pulitzer): the epic story of the Ganguli family's arrival and assimilation into the world of the United States.The story begins when Ashoke and his wife (of an arranged marriage), Ashima, come to Massachusetts where Ashoke is a graduate student at MIT.
جدا فوق العاده!جومپا لاهیری میتونه یکی از ۴-۵ تا نویسنده ای باشه که تا آخر عمر هرچیزی که ازشون منتشر بشه رو سعی میکنم بخونم...انقدر که این زن بلده خوب بنویسه!
انقدر که بلده واقعی بنویسه!
I've read this book 3 different times for school and for some reason never rated it on here
My 78-y/o mother is also living alone in a senior's apartment in National City, CA and she's been there for almost twenty years now and there are more Filipinos in that senior's apartment so she says that sometimes she feels that she is still in the Philippines with the TFG (The Filipino Channel) on whenever she is awake and inside her room.I am sure my brother, sister and my mom felt the same way as the couple Ashoke and Ashimi in this first novel by Jhumpa Lahiri (born 1967).
I could write a book about how this book affected me. I am an American Bengali and, for much of my life, I have taken my cultural background for granted, if not lost sight of it completely. "The Namesake" takes the little efforts and rituals in my family that I have always thought to be "weird", and weaves them into something utterly beautiful. Amazing novel.
This is a diaspora novel; the story of a Bengali family moving to America; the intermingling of cultures, the way different generations adapt and change.
The plot itself is fairly thin and revolves around the main protagonist Gogol Ganguli, his parents (who move to America from India and his various doomed love interests.
There are some good food descriptions, and for me that always improves a novel!Lahiri describes cultural alienation rather well; the struggles with dress codes, the tensions between traditional moral values and more modern mores, feeling apart from society, mixing with others in the same situation.
There was an emotional warmth and tenderness to this novel which I enjoyed; Lahiri's characters were all likeable in their own way.
