https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32587.On_Overgrown_Paths
Neverovatno koliko je čovek jasno razmišljao i uviđao stvari sa svojih skoro 90 godina. Iako deluje kroz zapise da se ne kaje zbog svojih postupaka tokom Drugog svetskog rata, na momente se oseća da ipak pokušava da se opravda. Da li je uspeo da se opravda naciji i čitaocima, nije ni bitno, bitan je uvid u način na koji je Hamsun razmišljao u godinama u zatočeništvu.Zbog toga, ova knjiga možda nije za one koji bi da se upoznaju sa Hamsunovim delima, ili prosto, da pročitaju dobar roman.
The book Knut Hamsun wrote while (mostly) confined in mental institutions awaiting his trial for treason after World War II.
His origins in, and love for, Norway's Nordland run throughout, especially in a couple meetings with a true wanderer also from Hamsun's hometown -- a man who walks barefoot to save his shoes until he comes to a town, and who still lives by occasional day-work here and there.
No, that is not all; snow and winter are evil to me."That there can be a season of the year altogether unique in vileness!
Hamsun proudly proving he could still be Hamsun - following the drift of his mind from current events to childhood memories to an encounter with a barefoot wanderer to being reinvigorated by feminine beauty with humor, concision, and wide-openness - even though he was in his 80's and mostly deaf, going blind, and incarcerated (in a hospital and an old folks' home) for working too closely with the Nazis.
It also demonstrates how straight up odd he was to the end - gaining wisdom by watching ants; and expending more energy during this weighty, foreboding, and consequential time of his life writing about shoelaces than Hitler.
The only mention of his actions during the war come from a transcription of his testimony when his case was finally heard.
I suppose it's my own fault for hoping that he would write about his actions during the war - from what I can tell he never did - but I did expect that, and as such I did not like this as much as I probably should have.But, for what is here, it's fantastic.
Due to his actions during the war, it leaves me conflicted to enjoy his stuff, but he is an incredible writer, and I try to approach him from only that angle.
One might think Hamsun was demented old man (considering his collaboration with Nazis and fact that he sent his Nobel medal to Goebbels out of gratitude for all the 'good' he's done in Europe), but this book shows he was lucid and very much self aware.
And we, his close followers, bow our heads at his death.")I don't know, for me it was kind of sad to see pictures of 90 years old, deaf and poor sighted Hamsun sitting in the court, trying to redeem himself.
But also in the same time it's crazy to think he didn't know what was happening all over Europe and what nacism actually represented.
Hamsunovi memoari, njegovo poslednje delo napisano na osnovu dnevnika i beleški pisanih u periodu 1945 - 1949 za vreme zatvoreništva ( uslovno rečeno). Hamsun je 1945 uhapšen te je 4 sledeće godine razrešenje svog sudskog procesa čekao , prvo u bolnici, te staračkom domu pod budnim okom policije a potom i ,sasvim nerazumno - u duševnoj bolnici. Već tada imao je blizu 90 godina i bio je maltene gluv te slabog vida.Apsolutno must read štivo za Hamsunove verne fanove i one zainteresovane za njegov život ali nikako kao štivo za upoznavanje Hamsunovog književnog opusa.
Gyvenimo saulėlydyje norvegų klasikas Knut Hamsun palaikė nacių režimą ir po WWII Norvegijoje buvo viešai pasmerktas bei nuteistas. Autobiografinė knyga, kurioje rašytojas aprašo pokarinės visuomenės panieką jam, apgailestauja dėl padarytų klaidų. Tai paskutinė K. Hamsun knyga.
Empecé este libro porque tenía ganas de leer algo exótico de mi categoría "resto del mundo" y sin buscar mucho me quedé con este por su lindo título.
El juicio se va atrasando por años y mientras tanto a él lo van pasando por distintas instituciones: hospital, psiquiátrico, geriátrico, etc, lo cual lo frustra mucho, sobre todo porque no lo reconocen como quien es.
Salvo por su alegato en el juicio, no hay muchas referencias al tema de si era o no nazi y por qué y cuál era la discusión sobre su persona en el momento, cosa que podría haber sido muy interesante.
Was hij overleden toen hij, zeg 71 jaar oud was (wat ook een respectabele leeftijd geweest zou zijn), dan was het 1930 geweest, en had die hele geschiedenis van zijn sympathie voor de nazi's hem nooit achtervolgd.
Beschrijft hij zijn verblijf in de Psychiatrische Kliniek (ja, met hoofdletters, zoals Reve dat later graag zou doen - Langs overwoekerde paden lijkt trouwens op het werk van Reve, zeker diens brievenboeken, maar Hamsuns laatste verscheen min of meer tegelijkertijd met Reves eerste, dus die overeenkomst moet op toeval berusten), dan staat er: 'De tijd werd gemeten in zestig minuten per uur, omdat het niet mogelijk was hem nog preciezer te meten.' Precieus.
I learned from this insightful autobiography that history has no winners, that is only muddled; man can rewrite history anyway he desires in order to demonize his fellow man. This book is a masterpiece of memories, failures, and reconciliation. I love this writer!
Hamsuns sidste udgivelse.
Skrevet 60 år efter gennembrudsromanen "Sult".Hamsuns sidste leveår var turbulente.
Efter en stor fascination af nazismen blev han dømt som landsforrædder i sit hjemland.
Han blev erklæret sindssyg og dement og fik frataget sine frihedsrettigheder.
Der bliver stille og roligt dokumenteret uden de store forsøg på at retfærdiggøre sig selv.
Sproget er dejligt at læse, og det er sådan set der, der bærer bogen det meste ad vejen."En, to tre, fire - slik sitter jeg og noterer og skriver Smaastubber for mig selv.
Jeg lækker varsomme ord.
Jeg er en Kran som staar og drypper, en, to, tre, fire -"
It is really difficult to rate this book. Hamsun wrote it to prove his sanity and it is more like a diary than an actual novel. It talks about his time in different institutions he was placed during his trial for supporting Nazies during WW2. It's a very good book if you are interested in first hand facts about how author experienced the whole process, but it's not really interesting and there is a lot of memories written as well and, to be honest, I don't really see the point of them there, but they are well written.
Sela, dice David. Sela non è una parola da leggere a voce alta, ma è solo una nota per chi recita, per dirgli che a questo punto deve fare una pausa per permettere all'accompagnamento musicale di suonare oppure deve elevare la propria voce con maggiore intensità. Questo libro è un continuo Sela. Egregio...sulla caducità, sulla velocità e sulla lentezza.
..Anna teica, ka grāmata ir garlaicīga, taču man tā vis nelikās. nedaudz atgādināja Heses "Kūrviesi", protams, ne tik aizraujošā veidā sarakstītu, bet tomēr. tikai beigās man kaut kā šī grāmata vairs neuzrunāja tik ļoti, kaut gan iesākumā aizrāva. nejauši sanāca satikt arī grāmatas pēcvārda un piezīmju autoru, un dabūt autogrāfu :)
Hamsun beschreibt die Jahre zwischen 45 und 48, dem Jahr seiner Verurteilung. Obwohl stellenweise durchaus faszinierend, bleibt das ganze doch ziemlich blaß.
Who are you to talk to a Netherlander about fishing? With Hamsun i have found a kindred soul.
A peine deux cents pages, imprimées gros, je me suis laissé tenter et j’ai lu sans ennui, par pincées de quelques feuilles chaque fois que je pouvais m’asseoir dans le tram, ce n’est pas tous les jours, cette chronique des trois années d’après-guerre pendant lesquelles l’écrivain norvégien, presque octogénaire, fait l’objet de poursuites pour n’avoir pas caché sa sympathie envers Adolf Hitler, sans toutefois qu’aucun acte malveillant ne puisse lui être reproché.
Actually i read this book some months ago; but i'm still remembering the atmosphere of the hospitals,where Hamsun was reclused because of his opinions about the National-Socialism, and the particular hard treatment reserved to this very old man.I was really moved from his lonely thinking and his considerations in the hospital,in the silence and in front of the contempt of the nurses,or during the outside walkings and the rare meetings with someone.Fortunately i have forgotten the injustices,that he had to suffer in the final part of the book too.
And especially then if he is so old.No one is without fault; and it should be more honest,i think, just to punish someone because his party has lost a war.
A different beast than the other Hamsun novels I've read.
This one is introspective, personal and ..
contemplative?
Hamsun was (and is) considered the premier Norwegian novelist of the last century, and his support for the nazi regime felt, it seems, much like a betrayal.
The easy solution, at least to the government, was to declare him old and dotty.
Hamsun, other faults aside, didn't care much for that, and with this book showed that opinions on politics aside, he certainly wasn't dotty.It's an interesting read.
Focused on nature, and on the writer; at times sad, other times defiant..
it's worth reading, absolutely.
Written during his trial, On Overgrown Paths is a lucid memoir that evokes Hamsun's earlier prose of Hunger. The book meanders and follows Hamsun's thoughts as he is transferred from different old people's homes and other institutions. In doing so, Hamsun takes us through some of his memories of his earlier life, while offering an apologia for his involvement with the National Socialist Party. Like everything in life, it is convoluted, muddled and riddled with contradiction -- a book well worth tracking down and reading.
Este libro es un paseo por la causa que se le abrió a Hamsun al finalizar la guerra, donde se le acusaba de simpatizar con el partido Nazi. Durante grandes ratos autobiográfico y otros ficción. A Hamsun se le trató de probar algún tipo de locura o merma mental, asunto que se describe ampliamente en estas páginas; la genialidad de este libro, por sí solo, demuestra que tal presunción era un error.Esencial para comprender la vida y obra de este maravilloso autor.
En fasinerende bok som igjen viser styrken i Hamsuns språk og humor for meg. Selvfølgelig er det en trist bok om Hamsuns værste år, men som vanlig får han meg til å humre flere ganger i løpet av boka. Det den boka iallefall har lært meg er at jeg vet altfor lite om landsvikersaken mot Hamsun og at det er noe jeg må gjøre noe med.
Visiškas nesusipratimas. Pasiaiškinti, kodėl bendradarbiavai su naciais užtektų kelių puslapių. O čia visa kliedesių pilna knyga. Ir jokios logikos tarp padrikų pasakojimų. Suprantu, meilė Tėvynei lėmė, kad Nobelio premijos medalį teko atiduoti Hitleriui, bet prie ko čia seperatorius ir vaikščiojimai po sniegą?;/
Väga huvitav oli tutvuda senitundmatu inimliigi siseeluga: kurt vanamees. Tuleb välja, et neil on nalja ja mõtteid kui palju, isegi kui kiuslikud inimesed nad 85-aastaselt pärast sõda vanadekodusse vangi panevad.
Some people have written that this is not the best place to start with Hamsun. That seems sensible -as it is his last book- but it is an excellent memoir and is very similar in style to his early novels.
Definitely a book to read after going through a few of Hamsun's books from each of his phases, as it combines both as well as an autobiography. You get a real sense of proud sorrow, and pride in his country. A great read.
Varbūt man nepatika, jo nepazīstu K. Hamsunu, iespējams tādēļ, ka atkal par nervu slimībām, sabrukšanas reakcijām.. bet varbūt man vienkārši nepatika tas, ka grāmata nebija filozofiska, bet ļoti vienkārša.
A great writer
Hamsun won WW2 with this.
Lest på nytt i forbindelse med eksamen – absolutt mye mer spennende med rettssaken og hvordan den framstilles ulikt i PGS og i sakspapirene. Hamsun var en meget spesiell mann, men godt skrev han.
