https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148505.How_The_Reformation_Happened
This book should be etched in stone and turned into a monument. For any subject, my dream is to have someone just tell it to me straight, what really happened and why, the entire truth without any waste. Belloc is that person for the subject of the Protestant Reformation and the splitting of Christendom. This is an outstanding history book. I wish I'd read him years ago.
I think I would have given it 5 stars, but it needed some kind of footnotes or something - would have made for a much stronger essay.Belloc is very insightful, glad to have read about the Reformation from a perspective that you do not see in our Protestant-heavy history books, I would definitely recommend this.
I think one of the things I particularly enjoyed about this book was Belloc's ability to remain objective while explaining the truths of the Reformation.
Belloc answered all of my "why's" that I have been desiring to learn, and I love that it was from a Catholic author able to maintain objectivity for explanation throughout the read.
Too often we see the anti-Catholic hatred attempt to explain the Reformation and it's "positive effect" and "glory" that it has laid down upon history, when in reality, it was a travesty to split Christendom.
This will be the first book that I recommend to anyone who wants to learn the authentic truths of the Reformation.
Belloc lays forth an understanding of history regarding the Protestant Reformation(s) that gives "at least the right sequence of political causes and their right proportion ...
Belloc survey's 5 factors and 2 consequences of the Protestant Reformation(s).
Factor 3: The Reformation was prompted by corrupt condition of the Church and Papal court.
Factor 5: The Reformation was politically motivated by the looting of Church property .
Consequence 2: Reformation isolated the soul ushering in a base form of subjectivism.Good book that goes beyond the common understanding of Protestant history and into multi-layered political and economic understandings.
The personal abuses of Catholic clergy at this time (and there were many) were not doctrinal abuses of matters of faith, but offered the slightest opportunity for that devilish character at work in the world and the hearts of men to seize opportunity for power and wealth.
Despite this turning point in history, the Lord's promise that the gates of hell shall not prevail against his Church holds true and the Catholic Church survived the protestant revolution as the lasting sign of Christian unity in the world.
This book is passionate, opinionated, profoundly learned, acute and definitely politically incorrect. Refreshing! O Belloc! How you quench my thirsting soul in this arid world of materialism ... And how you penetratingly understood the historical processes that generated our arid culture.I hope to review this at more length at the growing Hilaire Belloc section of my blog: http://corjesusacratissimum.org/tag/h... (which I shamelessly plug for any fellow friends of beloved HB who love him like I do ...)
Though the author (a Catholic) makes no pretense at impartiality, he also makes no attempt to deny the incredible institutional corruption in the Church at the time of the Reformation -- indeed he repeatedly emphasizes it. This is a sharp-edged polemic from a different era. Though I read the book fully aware of its brevity and limited scope, I had nonetheless hoped for a little more meat on the bone. Contains both unsubstantiated assertions and deeply thoughtful insights. The author's knowledge of every little corner of Europe is at times staggering.
Interesting viewpoint on the Reformation.
I had never read the history of the Reformation from a Catholic perspective. It was fascinating to me.
Good historical account of how the Reformation began and spread through the major areas of Europe.
So far I've enjoyed this read. It is a very balanced and unbiased account of the Reformation. I would love to re-read this book without distractions.
Pretty good account, though he assumes a lot of previous knowledge and his role is really just to throw out various situations and go off on his idea of the thing. Luther not too important. Calvin is. England is critical and decisive on account of the middle nobles wanting to scarf up the church's property. Then these same "new millionaires" propping up and controlling Elizabeth.Still.. a good conversational account.
Both Hus and Wycliffe attracted a small following, but any major opposition to the Christian Church was still a century away.Martin Luther and his 95 ThesesA German monk by the name of Martin Luther was particularly bothered by the selling of indulgences.
To express his growing concern of church corruption, Martin Luther wrote his famous 95 Theses, which called for a full reform of the Christian Church.
Elsewhere in Europe, the Wars of Religion were not so easily solved.New ReligionsMartin Luther and the protesting princes inspired an entire generation of people to break away from the Catholic Church.
For Protestants, this is kind of like reading the Screwtape Letters version of history. Belloc mostly concentrates on the politics of the Reformation, not making much of an attempt to handle doctrinal matters (even in his discussion of Trent). His criticism is particularly (and surprisingly) mild towards Martin Luther and Henry VIII; he attributes the force of Protestantism to Calvin. Though his coverage draws suspicion, Belloc's perspective is occasionally insightful and it is hard to finish the book without sharing his grief over the Church's loss of unity.
One of "Old Thunder's" best. He demolishes the standard Protestant version of the Reformation. His reasoning is clear and his logic is impeccable. The breakdown of Christendom into a mass of contradictory beliefs; finally leading to only subjectivism and Leftist nihilism is a story that should be told. He is unashamedly Roman Catholic, yet he points out clearly the moral degradation that afflicted the Church from the time of the Black Death (1348) on. Reform as clearly called for, but not the wholesale destruction of a cultural unity that had existed for over a thousand years.
Included in the "History and Culture" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
ESPAÑOL: Así ocurrió la reforma
Look up a picture of Hilaire and you will be able to guess his writing style.See this picture: http://www.famousquotesandauthors.com...
