https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33668.4th_of_July
James Patterson has joined up with Maxine Paetro in this 4th in the Women's Murder Club series and I'm pleased to say I enjoyed this much better than the last one which was written with Andrew Gross.
Although I would have like to have seen more input from the other members of the club (this one was all about Lt Lindsay Boxer) it was still a cracking book, fast paced, kept you guessing until the end and with an unexpected killer I hadn't foreseen it was certainly the traditional James Patterson style thriller.
The 4th book in the Women's murder club by Maxine Paetro and probably the best so far.Usual James Patterson proven formula, fast paced, short chapters etc.
If this isn't the last James Patterson book I read, I invite you to punch me in the face.
The best thing that can be said about this book is that it reads very quickly and that you don't have to pause to look up any words ou don't know.
It makes obvious, trite, and stereotypical pop culture references that require no further explanation.
In fact, no explanation required applies to most of the book.
This book is not worth the time it took to read it, the $0.20 I paid for it, or the paper it was printed on.
James Patterson's books are either really good or just average and this was one of the really good ones. Short, choppy chapters made it fast reading and the thrilling story line made it a page turner that was impossible to put down. The identity of the murderers came completely from left field. I had not even considered two of them as possibilities. Just the way it should be in a competently written mystery thriller. I have not read any of the earlier Women's Murder Club series but it did not matter. This book stood well on its own.
Another excellent instalment of the Woman's Murder Club series by Maxine Paetro.* I listened to this Audible audio book many years ago and all that I remembered was that I really, really liked it!
Now I remember why!
Fast paced and exciting the whole way through.
What a great book!
I have no reservations in recommending not only this book, but the entire Woman's Murder Club series!
One of my all time favorite series!
I enjoy the narrator, Carolyn McCormick, who did a great job as always!
*Note: While James Patterson is listed as the coauthor, this book was written primarily by Maxine Paetro.
I love James Patterson. His style of writing is fun and easy to read. And the Women's Murder Club is great! That said, this book slugged in a few places. Lindsey's trial felt a bit bogged down, and the extra murder investigation didn't get as much of the story as it needed to build suspense.  But, it's still a good addition to the series and worth reading.
This book in the Women's Murder Club series was very different from the first 3 books in the series.
In this book, Lindsey is put on administrative leave during a trial while she is being investigated for shooting her police gun at two children.
The charges are found to be bogus and Lindsey is found to be innocent (no shock there).
What makes this book different is that we learn about Lindsey in her free time.
Did I miss something in the previous books?
Where do Lindsey and Martha find time to practice that in San Francisco?
Wow, didn't see that one coming. As usual, this series has got me picking up the next book in anticipation. The last book we lost one girl, this book, we seem to have adopted another in the women's murder club. Not all the girls assist Lindsay in this brutal crime but she holds her own. Her and her partner are shot down, but it didn't stop either of them from solving the crime after recovery. Lindsay is then put on trial and I have to say, I LOVED IT. One of the better novels of the women's murder club.
So far seems like the same fare from the James Patterson sweat shop as the other novels he has people write for him.
In the past Alex Cross novels he had no problem letting the story ran the course over a lond period of time but when you are just churning out books for the money I guess you don't have the time write a full story.Also when you have people forgetting/misplacing cell phones and guns you really lose credibility with me.The end of the book was some tacked on garabage.
The first plot being Lindsay's trial and the second being a murder case.
I didn't like the constant back and forth between the trial and the case since there wasn't a connection between the two.
I found that both plots wrapped up very quickly and I would have liked to know more about the murderers and their reasons for doing what they did.Maxine Paetro picks up the series from Andrew Gross.
She introduces a new character, Yuki Castellano, who ends up joining the club and they become close.The bulk of this book features Lindsay on trial for a wrongful death suit.
She introduces a new character, Yuki Castellano, who I think might end up joining the Club.The bulk of this book features Lindsay on trial for a wrongful death suit.
The courtroom stuff was about as good as in an episode of Law & Order, which is to say it was obviously dramatized but sufficiently convincing to me.There was the obligatory serial killer plot thrown in, with a decent twist ending.
I'm not great at guessing who the killers are but they always hide in plain sight and follow the book version of Ebert's Law of Economy of Characters.
I keep reading this series because once I start a series I usually want to see it through and I am generally a pretty big James Patterson fan but I have a hard time with him writing as a bunch of different women.
I wouldn't expect much else though with a man writing from a woman's perspective the way that JP does.
I still enjoyed the overall story and the solving of the crimes as well as the different perspectives that the author writes from.
I will be continuing the series but it is definitely not my favourite from Mr. Patterson.Okay Read!
No importa que el coescritor sea Andrew Gloss o Maxine Paetro, la serie es muy entretenida, el ritmo de la historia no decae en ningún momento, y la lectura es rápida y ágil. Es una pena que hayan dejado de traducir esta serie a español, así que seguiré leyendo en portugués, a ver qué tal se me da.Es esta historia Lindsay Boxer es la protagonista indiscutible, mucho más que en las anteriores entregas.
This book was not nearly the Cheesefest that the previous three were.
I guess I have Maxine Paetro to blame/thank for that.
I don't know, I'm so conflicted!This series is my easy, cheesy, mindless escape-from-sitting-at-a-desk-at-work series.
Do I like that this was a little more of a legit novel?
Or am I sad that my cheese has been taken away?The lack of cheese is not the only way in which 4th of July is different from it's predecessors.
I don't know, dare I say I actually liked this book....like, in a real way?!?
I just breezed right through this novel. The 4th book in tbr Women's Club series starts off with a bang. It dives right into drama and suspense that will keep you turning pages late into the night to see what's going to happen. With plot twists that will almost have your head spinning this book was a solid 4 stars for me. Can't wait to read the next book.
Σα να μη φτάναν όλα αυτά, στη Λίνζι Μπόξερ ασκείται αγωγή από τους γονείς του αγοριού, μια κίνηση που κινδυνεύει να τινάξει στον άερα όλη της την καριέρα και τη ζωή.
Εκεί όμως εμφανίζεται ένας κατά συρροήν δολοφόνος που αφήνει ίχνη παρόμοια με την πρώτη υπόθεση δολοφονίας που ανέλαβε η Μπόξερ δέκα χρόνια πριν κι η οποία παραμένει άλυτη!Μετά το αξεπέραστο προηγούμενο βιβλίο της σειράς, «Το τρίτο χτύπημα», εδώ παρατήρησα μια κάθετη πτώση στην πρωτοτυπία και τις ανατροπές.
όμως έχουμε στατικές εικόνες και σκηνικά, το υπόλοιπο βιβλίο είναι η εξιχνίαση των δολοφονιών σε μια περιοχή εκτός δικαιοδοσίας της Μπόξερ, η οποία επιπλέον έχει προσωρινά παυθεί από την ενεργό δράση ως την απόφαση των ενόρκων.
This was an interesting read.
I really love Lindsay Boxer.
She is a really great character to read about.
I also really like her friends.
I just thought the story was there.
I really enjoyed this read.
I think listening to the audiobook has give the characters more depth, and I really enjoyed how the narrators told the story.
As always, there is crime, and this time I was a bit more disturbed than the other times.
I cannot wait to see what happens next to these ladies and what crimes they will solve.
Overall, a great read.
I must say that this book didn't impress me as the other 3. The suspense left after the court trial. This book made Lindsay appear sometimes incompetent instead of a seasoned police officer. There was a lot of hum drum in between the stories that took place in two different cities but were connected. By the time the killer or killers was identified, I was so happy to be almost through with the story.Let's hope the next book in the series is much better.
In the end I do not feel rewarded.If you want my initial general take on the Women’s Murder Club series take a look at my review of the first book in the series at https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
I read it a couple of years ago so it has taken me quite a while to reconnect with the series.Talk about a gold mine for those who like books with short chapters.
How can a book have 146 chapters?
Zoom!But nothing can slow a good murder mystery down like an extended court diversion.
And then we go back to chasing a serial murderer outside the jurisdiction of our good cop.
Lindsay Boxer is on the trail of a killer with her one of her ex-partners when the unthinkable happens...
while chasing down a suspect's car, it crashes.
When they go to help, they find two pre-teen kids in the front seat.
But as they try to get them out of the car, both kids pull guns and shoot the two cops.
Lindsay fires back, killing one and paralyzing the other from the neck down before passing out herself due to her injuries.
However, her detective instincts kick in as the small coastal town is being threatened by a serial killer and she just can't stay away.
Gah. Such HORRIBLE writing, but I'll give Patterson and his coauthor credit for writing a compulsively readable book. It totally helps that the chapters are four sentences long, but I REALLY tired of reading about beyond cheesy euphemisms for drinking with the sassy gal pals and for the love of god, please once write "I turned the car..." rather than "I angled deftly..." "I determinedly pointed the nose of the car..." And I have to add this is the second book in a row where I let forth with a heartily sarcastic "REALLY?!" when they revealed the killer. Ugh.
5 starsNice to see Lindsay again. Welcome Yuki Castellano. Also glad Lindsay was able to solve her Cold Case. Hope Lindsay and Joe get married. Can't wait to read The 5th Horseman!!!
I think I'll always enjoy James Patterson's novels because they are entertaining, they have short chapters, therefore they are easy to read, they are action-packed and the cases Lindsay and her friends deal with are quite interesting.
The only thing that bothers me now and then when reading a mystery book written by James Patterson is the silly writing style.
I find myself laughing sometimes at Lindsay's thoughts and the conversations she has with her female friends.
I'm going to give this book 4 stars, but this is a low 4.
I think I'm incapable of rating books lower than 4 stars and this is a real problem.
I really enjoyed this book.
To me, that was such a compelling aspect of this book.
Even with knowing the truth, I started to feel sympathetic for Sam. As crazy as that seems for me to write about now.As for the other part of this book with the active killings, I had guessed 2/3 of the killers, and I had suspicions about the other.
Even with that being said, I still found the story entertaining and an exciting read!
I can’t decide if I like this book or 1st to Die, more.
They are both really engrossing stories but have two totally different vibes!
I hope I enjoy the rest of the books as well.
I LOVED this book. Everything about it from the court case to who the killers were. It was a plot twist for sure. I also loved the new character Yuki, shes a great lawyer and fits in great with the girls, although I am still mad about Jill. Poor little Allison. That poor girl. I knew from the beginning something was off with Keith. Great book, great plot, very well written.
Here the premise is of a rather personal nature, as Lindsay Boxer goes on trial for killing a teenager and maiming her even younger brother, when, in reality, it's the 2 teenagers who shoot at Det. Warren Jacobi and Lindsay first.
They couldn't foresee that these youngsters would be killers and shoot at two police detectives after they rescued them from a burning car.
Of course, being her, she can't help to involve herself and helps the local police.This was a compelling read, but not a full 4 stars - almost!
Again, I wish for half stars.
Highly enjoyable.
Cheesy? Yes! Well written? Not exactly. Entertaining as hell? Absolutely! I admit...I'm hooked on these books. James Patterson is no literary genius, but he can sure throw together compelling, gripping crime thrillers. This was the best book in this series so far! Thoroughly entertaining!
4th of July by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro is the 4th book in the Women's Murder Club mystery series. Lieutenant Lindsay Boxer is sued after shooting two teenagers in self-defence and while on leave investigates recent homicides linked to a cold case of hers from the past. Another fast paced book that you cannot put down. This time Lindsay is on her own for most of the investigation but comes out on top in the end.

