https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511566.The_Suitcase_Kid
I connected on a spiritual level to how Andy loves her little rabbit toy, Radish. Loved the ending so much, even though throughout there's not much hope for Andy finding comfort and happiness.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Nope.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
One thing I liked about it was that it allows children, who may have parents who no longer live together, to identify with the main character Andrea.
The reader is left wanting to read more at the end of each chapter to see whether it's possible that Andrea will get the happy ending for her parents to get back together and live in Mulberry Cottage again.
I would say this book is pretty addictive and can be read by a whole range of children from the ages of 8-13 years.
This is definitely in my top five favourite Jacqueline Wilson books.
As a child, I read it over and over again, I just couldn't get enough of it.
Andy is coping with the divorce of her parents and having to adjust to having two new mis-matched families.
As an only child, Andy is pushed pillar to post by mum and dad as they struggle to work out a suitable visitation arrangement.
This book spoke to me on a personal level as my own parents divorced when I was nine.
It Is A Great Story With A Fascinatinn Story Line The Book Is Very Interestinn Becausee Of The Way Is Is Set And It Is Told Like It Is Based On A Real Story. It Is Aboutt A Girl Whos Mum And Dad Have Split Up And She Is Given The Choice To Live With Either Her Mum Or Dad And Choses Both So Each Week She Stays At Her Mums House And The Next Week She Stays With Her Dad ...But It Doesn't Turn Out All As Planned.
I've literally read this book about a 1000000 times. It's great how she writes it and the humourous situations are something we could all relate too. Some people may think this has sensitive subjects for young readers who are going through difficult times but i think differently, it kind of helps them get through it.
I didn't take much notice at the library, but when he picked it to read tonight I thought I better take a look.This isn't a book for a six year old boy and I won't be giving it to him to read.
I'm also grateful that I haven't had to deal with such things myself, either when I was a child or now that I'm in a solid and happy marriage.Marcus won't be reading this, but I'm actually rather glad I did and it certainly gave me a new perspective.
‘The Suitcase Kid’ by Jacqueline Wilson is a book you can enjoy as an adult or as a child!
When I was a child I enjoyed reading various books by Jacqueline Wilson such as ‘The Story of Tracy Beaker’ and ‘Bad Girls’, and as an adult I have come to appreciate how she captures issues such as divorce, death and fostering through emotional dialogue and gripping characters.‘The Suitcase Kid’ is about a 10 year old girl called Andrea who has to come to terms with her parent’s recent divorce.
'The suitcase kid' tells the story of 10year old Andrea.
Andy, as she is known shares her experiences of divorce and broken families.
Andy's parents share custody of her when they split up and start their new families.
This book can help children from broken families to understand that they are not alone and other children also experience the same struggle.
This book can be used as a long term group read in a KS2 class at story time.
Chapters are short so one chapter can be read aloud to the class each story time.
I felt if I was a child reading this and was going through this in real life this would have been very comforting for me to know that I wasn’t the only one in this situation and wasn’t the only one feeling like I don’t have my own home any more.
Reading the Suitcase Kid you really feel empathy for the character and they way Jacqueline Wilson presents this story you really feel that you are reading a diary of a young child in an upsetting time of their life.I would suggest that this story and the other Jacqueline Wilson stories would be appropriate for children who are in the years of five onwards.
This book follows Andy whose parents have divorced and who is now being forced to move between both their homes and come to terms with her parents gaining new partners and step families.
For children in the latter years of Key Stage 2 who perhaps have gone through similar situations this book will be of great interest, however even for children without first hand experience of divorce and separation it addresses universal feelings of feeling lost and uncertainty which all children have felt at one time or another.
The suitcase kid is a book about a ten year old girl named Andy who is struggling to cope with her parent’s divorce.
She is forced to leave Mulberry cottage her family home and decide which parent to live with permanently.
This book cleverly outlines the Andy’s emotions, fears and neglect as a result of her new family situation.
Andy feels as if she is living out of a suitcase.
Finding a new mulberry tree and making friends with Graham helps her cope in this situation.
This book deals with real life situations that man children can either relate to or have had to deal with.
The Suitcase Kid by Jacqueline Wilson is a story about a 10 year old child called Andy and her struggle in coping with her parents’ divorce.
Andy is desperate to return to her old life and family home where she was once happy.
The story shows the physical and mental strain this has on Andy as she copes with her parents arguing as well as having new step siblings thrust upon her.
I really enjoyed reading this book as it deals with real life situations that many children face.
I believe this book would be suitable for KS2 children however it could be read to younger children.
Wilson is great at making realistic characters that you can quickly come to term with, giving realistic reactions to events.Her books are great at getting children to really think about actions and their consequences, really opening the eyes of children to the world. Some of her books are sensitive reads yet they are all great at sending life messages to children.I feel as though Wilson books are a must in the lives of young children, a way of opening their eyes to the real world in the right way.
I remember the time when I was young, living with Mom and Dad and my little sister. It wasn't a vivid memory, and then I could only recall many years of living with Aunt and Uncle in a country. At that time, my parents didn't live together anymore.That's probably why I could relate to Andrea so much. We don't exactly encounter similar problems; relocating between parent's houses, dealing with evil siblings, seeing mom and dad fighting or wishing my old family back. But I get what Andrea was going through in the book.Stay Strong, little girl.
Also LOVE this book, it's a subject I would not normally relate too or be drawn to in a novel, yet somehow everything that happens to Andy hits me right in the gut. I love the realistic way she writes about Andy's feelings to her knew sister, her distrust of the professionals sent to help her, and her quirk of her sylvanian friend is very relatable for me (as a child I had an obsession with those, and for a while started carrying a sylvanian family otter around in my pocket trying to be like andy )
I love Jacqueline Wilson's writing so much! read it in one sitting and loved the main character. highly recommended for all but especially for kids dealing with their parents' divorce
i loved this book i read it in one day it was a light read i would recommend it to all ages looking for a good quick read
The Suitcase Kid is a story about a girl named Andy, aged 11; her parents are separating but both Mum and Dad want Andy to live with them when all Andy wants is to live back in mulberry cottage with the whole family including Radish, Andy’s toy Sylvanian rabbit.
Andy has been thrown into new homes, step-parents, step-brothers and sisters, her school work is suffering, she can’t listen in lessons, loses books, is getting ill and worn out and having to live out of a suitcase.Andy finds a “New mulberry cottage” on her way home from school where she regularly plays with radish at the mulberry tree at the back of the garden.
She has moved from her family home "Mulberry Cottage", to having to live one week with her mum, and one week with her dad, as she is undecided as to who she wants to live with.Being 10 years old Andy hopes that her family can once again all be happy, and live together in "Mulberry Cottage".
As the story is in Andy's words, she is expressing her own thoughts and feelings, which many young children, especially girls, will be able to relate to.This book allows children to see that not every family are part of a typical nuclear family, mum, dad and children.
Both her parents have new parents and Andy finds herself going backwards and forwards between her two parents.Throughout the book, Andy wishes that her parents would get back together and move back into their little house called Mulberry Cottage.
She makes new friends with the people that live at the mulberry house.
By the end of the book, Andy has befriended her step-siblings and accepted that her parents are not getting back together.This story will be very reminiscent of many children's home lives, and although may be aimed more at the female audience, is accessible for many children.
The book cleverly outlines the lonely childs emotions, fears and neglect as a result of her new family situation.
The book clearly protrays the intense effects this situation has had on this young girls life as she struggles to develop as a result of family worries and strains.
All Andy wants to do is go back to her old home 'Mulberry Cottage' where she felt she lived happily with her two parents.
I felt this book was emotional at times as the poor little girl struggles to cope being pushed from house to house and not having a stable home.
Andy always had to swop houses her mums to dads,she really just wanted to live in Mulberry cottage w
Age range:Key stage 2 / 8 years plusPositives/ Likes about this book:Children are able to identify with the main character, more so for girls and those of similar circumstances.
The situation(s) the main character faces are through no fault/choice of her own and the arthor portrays Andy as very strong, brave and stubborn – again characteristics you may find in most children but maybe more so in those that have endured life stressors in this manner.
Probably it is not, certainly not for ten - year – old Andy.She has new stepsiblings, two houses to live in and she is deeply unhappy dreaming about coming back to her Mulberry Cottage, the place where she lived with her parents, to a life she used to have before the divorce.
As the book deals with the problems of finding your own place and adjusting to various circumstances I would recommend it to all children in their last years of KS2, not only those who have to cope with split families.
Andy, hidupnya berantakan saat kedua orangtuanya memutuskan untuk bercerai..
Masing2 orangtuanya sudah mempunyai sebuah keluarga kecil baru.
Andy merasa terjebak, dia tidak merasa dikeluarga manapun..
Yang dia mau cuma keluarga kecil yang dulu tinggal di Mulberry Cottage..Sedih liat Andy merasa merana seperti itu..
Kasihan, ditengah kebahagiaan baru kedua orangtuanya dia diabaikan..
Sedangkan yang didalam pikiran Andy hanyalah rumah kecil di Mulberry Cottage, rumah sederhana tempat dia dibesarkan..
Tapi pada akhirnya dia sadar, kalo itu cuma angan2 yang sulit dikabulkan..
Siapa sangka buku bercover kartun sederhana ini ternyata menyimpan sebuah kisah yang luar biasa untuk semua orang?
This book is about a girl called Andy, a 10-year old whose parents have had a divorce.
Andy's mother remarries a man called Bill, who is the father of three children.
The story shows Andy's change in character due to her parents' divorce.
However, in the end andy accepts the fact that her parents will never get back together and starts to learn that she has to get on with life.
The fact that the story has a positive ending makes it even more enjoyable to read.
The book can be used in PSHCE / Citizenship lessons, to help children understand a serious topic like divorce.
This is the first Jacqueline Wilson book I have read and I was struck by how moving and realistic this book was.
The Suitcase Kid tells the story of 10 year old Andy and her struggle with coping with her parents’ divorce.
The story shows the physical and mental strain this has on Andy as she copes with her parents arguing as well as having new step siblings thrust upon her.
I felt that this was a very realistic portrayal of divorce from the child's perspective and that the characters were well drawn, in particular "hippy Carrie", Andy's dad's partner and Katie Andy's step sister.
While Andrea is always moving around she is emotionally struggling with the feeling that she doesn’t belong anywhere anymore and wishes that things used to be the way they were when her Mum and Dad were together and she feels that the only real emotional stability that she does have, is with her toy Rabbit.
This book would be good to introduce to children, as it is all seen from Andreas perspective and would help children who are also emotionally struggling with their own parents divorce to associate with a character of a similar age range and would help them feel that a character of a similar age is going through the same feelings as them.
Andy does not like the new arrangements in her life.
She does not like her new step parents and fights regularly with her new siblings.
Eventually, Andy's parents bring her to see a counselor but to no avail.
The story does have a happy ending though as Andy meets some new people who show her that change doesn't always have to be a bad thing.
She eventually comes to realise that, although her life will never return to the way it was when all of her family lived together, she can make the most of he new life and the new people in her life.This book is suitable for KS2 children to read independently, or could be used as a talk topic for circle time.
