https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24988.Never_Give_In_
Can anybody imagine David Cameron coming out with 'Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few'?This maybe an obvious quote, but as I write this there are surely few people who do not recognise it 73 years later.Occasionally the speeches highlight Churchill's biased outlook at a world that was dominated in his youth by the British Empire - the loss of which he never really accepted, but at the same time they show a man who embraced change when it improved the lot of the people, had a fierce defence of the democratic process in government, had an understanding of the world around him, and a humility about his place within it.
It is great to listen to Winston Spence Churchill’s speeches.
The book is a compilation of WSC’s speeches compiled by his grandson Winston Churchill.
The book also contains sections of Churchill reading excerpts of his writings with explanations about why and when he wrote them.
I felt he was speaking to me as an individual even over my iPod. I have been a fan of WSC’s writings and of his exquisite use of the English language but listening to him I could hear the eloquence and rhythm of his spoken word.
This book is a must for the fans of Winston S.
I saw this quote:"You see these dictators on their pedestals, surrounded by the bayonets of their soldiers and the truncheons of their police. Yet in their hearts there is unspoken - unspeakable! - fear. They are afraid of words and thoughts! Words spoken abroad, thoughts stirring at home, and all the more powerful because they are forbidden. These terrify them. A little mouse - a little tiny mouse! - of thought appears in the room and even the mightiest potentates are thrown into panic."and knew I had to read more by this man. will be getting it soon
Ведь по сравнении с другими на деле великими государственными деятелями он находится достаточно далеко от первых позиций среди лучших.Фишка Уинстона Черчилля именно в том, что он был мастером подать себя, свои идеи, осветить то или иное событие в нужном ему свете, склонить слушателя, читателя и даже целый народ положится на его суждение, доверится и манипулировать настроением так, чтобы оно способствовало его продвижению иле же закреплению у стенах государственных учреждений и просто "держать власть и свой статус".
Это было его оружием, которое он применял повсеместно.Если вы хотите понять, что способствовало Черчиллю прийти к власти, столь долго оставаться в ней, преодолевать трудности и эффективно отстаивать свои позиции и проталкивать свои идеи и решения то книга будет весьма полезна.
I listened to this on audiobook, it is Churchill giving Churchill speeches, doesn't get much better than that. Some of the audio quality was not great but the content, wisdom and wit is brilliant. We may need his kind again... Soon.
A fine collection of many of his great speeches.
But when you lay his speeches end to end as the book does, you can almost feel a truly great man, and I mean a truly great man, a colossus, emerging.
In that sense it’s a book about greatness.
Obviously, his focus and resolve form the core of that greatness, but his use of words, designed to hold his people together, are more than the window-dressing here, they are a central component of the greatness too.
He is better heard than read, but still a compelling book.
Disclaimer: This is just an extremely honest, personal observation. I listened to the audiobook version, and I was rather disappointed. Some of the speeches were well written (the ones you probably know already). The rest were pretty mediocre, and his delivery was frankly terrible, for the most part. Clearly he was a better strategist and politician than he was a speechwriter.
No one since Churchill has had this effect in our modern day.
I read this book because I thought if his speeches could have that much effect on a nation to stir it to win an impossible war, then surely it could help me with some words of encouragement to face the daily war of life.
After we have put on the Ephesianal armor and are ready for the daily battle, Churchill's speeches can be recalled to mind in those moments when they are needed most: when you need someone to tell you not to give up!
i'll quibble with the author and say that, including Churchill's speeches on the Atlantic Charter and the Balfour Declaration were unnecessary to understanding his great oratorial powers.
In particular, Churchill's assessment of Hitler and his advice to the nation and the world did credit to his foresight and leadership.
I'll include a couple of excerpts, the first from a speech he gave at the beginning of WWII:"We shall not fail or falter; we shall not weaken or tire.

I read this entire book after reading Churchill's biography. His is one of the photos on the wall of my study.Amazing to me, how his warnings agains socialism are still true (and needed) today. Example: "Nationalisation! What an awful flop! Show me the nationalised industry which has not become a burden on the public either as taxpayers or consumers or both." (p 466)Perhaps he was write when he asked: "Is it the only lesson of history that mankind is unteachable?"(p 429)So - several famous speeches. Many that are relatively obscure, but still pure Churchillian genius.
The speeches of Churchill are famous and well known and available in different formats. The merit of this book is that his grandson has selected the best and most interesting ones, almost 200, and that with each one he presents with few well-chosen sentences the context. If you like history, you must read these speeches.These speeches were historical actions of the first order which had meaning in the great struggle to save freedom and human civilization.
A great quick read of excerpts from speeches given by Winston Churchill. A voice we'd do well to heed today. Peace isn't won through willful ignorance. Fear is often given the guise of political correctness. At 89, he was made an honorary citizen of the United States and our country could be weighed the better for it.
"We shall go on to the end. We shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air, we shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be. We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender."
This wonderful collection of Churchill's speeches covers his more than 50 years at the center of all the great historical events of the 20th century. He was a wonderful writer, his speeches deal with great events, and they give one the sense of living history. A great read.
Never Give In: The Best of Winston Churchill's Speeches by Winston S. Churchill (2003)
Churchill was a genius---an impulsive and pushy genius. everbody can take something away from his speeches. i'll read anything about or by this man.
I admire this man - for this grit and for not giving in during the darkest of nights. The speeches are ok. Not as brilliant as I thot it would be though.
Highly Inspiring speeches compiled nicely..
Good
Churchill saving Western civilization. How to mobilize the English language to save a country and a people.
Not the best of Winston Churchill's speeches ...
nice book
Every time I read book about Churchill , it's show me how to be a real leader who's leading his country to victory with his strength and persistence to beat your country enemy and to build a nation
This book was included in my book: The 100 Best Business Books of All Time. www.100bestbiz.com
A good read. He was an inspiring speaker without doubt. But just like with all things 'historical', it is difficult to sift the real truth from the author's version of the truth.
