https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31818.The_Philosophy_of_Andy_Warhol
Liz Taylor knows it, the President knows it, the bum knows it, and you know it."On the unimportance of art  "I really believe In empty spaces, although, as an artist, I make a lot of junk.
Business Art is a much better thing to be making than Art Art, because Art Art doesn’t support the space it takes up, whereas Business Art does.
(hide spoiler)]Lastly, Andy deliberately misunderstanding physics "People who tell you we’re running out of things are just making the prices go up higher.
Subsumed beneath the cool, the hype, and the business art, Andy was a wonderful draughtsman and a real artist, one who was really good at branding too.

i once wondered what the world would be like if, instead of a bible in every hotel room bedside table, there were this book.
what kind of world would that be, if every bored, lonely person in a hotel room anywhere in the world disinterestedly picked up this book and thumbed through it before sleep?don't let what you think you know about andy warhol keep you from reading this book.
(i think the chapters on love and space are my favorites).a laugh-out-loud moment is when andy warhol learns that picasso painted something like 3000 paintings in his life.
Self indulgent and tedious nonsense.
Droll. Very droll.
Definitely an interesting testament to the philosophy behind the pop culture art of Andy Warhol, but I found it very pretentious and weirdly patronizing.
I read a year later that Andy Warhol didn't even write this.
Two staff members of his Interview magazine did it based on things Andy said and the way he was.
But I loved and related to a lot of the ideas in the book or at least thought they were brilliant in their eccentricity.
And I'm not sure if it was in here or in Holy Terror (written by one of the ghost-authors of this) where he talks about using a new perfume every 6 months and then discarding it so that scent reminds him of all of the things that happened in that period and whenever he smells it, the memories from that time will come back.
I love it.
Portions of the book are about as close as we're going to get to a full-blown autobiography, Warhol Diaries notwithstanding.He goes back in time to when he was a kid in school and picked on for his bad skin and awkward looks, which explains his cool detachment in general as a defense mechanism.
Heh!But if the book does have anything shocking up its sleeve it's Warhol's candor in discussing his being shot, recalled several times during the book.
"The worst, most cruel review of me that I ever read was the Time Magazine report of me getting shot".
1. I decided to read this book because I am interested in Andy Warhol and his influence upon the current world and the commercialist mindset.
An idea I found particularly interesting in this book was Warhol's idea of consumerism.
This shows Warhol's idea of getting on with life and not letting small things bother you.
I think that this is important to remember because if you let things that happened in the past get you down, you're going to forget to live your real life and have fun with what you're doing.5.
Some even tried to kill him, twice.If you want to get an idea of what the hell Lady Gaga means, read this book.
It will explain Lady Gaga perfectly - because she isn't the first glamour conscious person who ever strutted her stuff, as this book shows.
Even her fashion is a bit Warholian, if a bit more focused on the rich celebrity culture than being Andy, a son of poor immigrants who rose from obscurity to somebody who changed the face of art.Read it from beginning to end, it's not just a book of quotes, it's a morally ambiguous guide to the American Nightmare.
A quick, witty read that offers a glance into Warhol's head and world, as he would like us to see it. Really enjoyed it.
To be honest I thought I would hate this, dont know why, just did. But omg I felt like I just read someones entire tumblr start to finish and I bloody loved it!!!
He has advice for people who want to lose weight: “ … try the Andy Warhol New York City Diet: when I order in a restaurant, I order everything that I don’t want, so I have a lot to play around with while everyone else eats.
When it arrived, I opened it and found that Andy Warhol had personally inscribed it to me, and had also done a quick sketch of a Campbell's soup can on the inside cover.
Included within its pages, not only will you find Andy's famous description of fifteen minutes of fame, but also how to fold money like a rich person, and why everyone should have a closet/storage unit/warehouse in New Jersey.
If I had to make a list of the books that I live my life by, this would definitely be in the top ten.
Andy Warhol byl celý život trochu malý kluk.
A o tom tahle knížka je, přesně tak je napsaná.
Prostince, ale zároveň způsobem, který vás navádí, abyste citovali každou druhou větu.
Na všech stránkách vyslovuje absolutní pravdy, konstatuje, tvrdí, proklamuje a filosofuje.
O všem, co vás napadne.
O prvních láskách, o životě, o žárlivosti, sexu a nostalgii.
O iluzorních zrcadlech.
O čisté kráse, o fanoušcích a o Elizabeth Taylorové.
O filmech a o času, o smrti, o nakupování.
O umění a o veteši, o městech a venkovu.
O uklízení a o tom, co dělá, když mu dojde filosofie.Boží čtení.
Two phone conversations, one trip to Italy, one to Macy's department store for some underwear, and a few short quips and aphorisms in which we are served a helping of the author's thoughts on love, money, work, fame and, somehow, underwear. That's mostly it. The persona that emerges from these pages is a very thick shell housing an introverted personality whose peculiar habits are borne out of the way in which his artistic sensibility reacts to the outside world. Fascinating in retrospect, but makes for a very dull read.
When I was going through my arty phase, I loved this book! Now, that some time has passed I can't stand it. Warhol's ideas about money and what's American are still entertaining and apart of me, but the book has a lot of boring (and lengthy) passages about NOTHING. There were parts that I would not have been reading (for example, the detailed cleaning routine of one of Andy's friends) if they weren't by Warhol.
This book went from midly interesting to boring at times. The last 2 chapters are a yawn. I don't know whether to believe any of it, especially the constant rant of wanting to be alone most of the time. I do wish he was alive to live in the 21st century, he would have loved all the digital art that is being made today. And it would have been interesting to see what he would have produced.
It's Andy Warhol, of course it's going to be a good book.Thank you Beth for buying me this!
Disappointing. a few nice lines.
Warhol's persona here is at times enjoyable, at times pithy, at times profound, at times absurd, at times concerned with triviality (underwear brands), etc. Warhol's superficiality and the moments when he simply records the "buzz" he surrounded himself with (a B talking on the phone about how she cleans her house for pm an entire chapter, for example) can get a little depressing/spiritually draining. When you read a book you expect certain things; don't expect that here with Warhol. He subverts as usual.
There were at least three years of my life where every decision I made was influenced by this book.
In fact, I wrote down my favorite lines in a sketchbook so that if I ever lost my copy of the book (or loaned it to the wrong person), I could still find the wisdom.I can't say that this is a book for everyone, and reading reviews written by peers on this site have confirmed this.
BUT I can say this is an incredible read for incredible people; Or incredible to read in the right circumstances.

I loved this book! He presents a number of ideas that I'm going to ponder for the next few days. In the mean time here are some of my favorite quotes:-"I never fall apart because I never fall together" - pg.81-"Buying is much more American than thinking and I'm as American as they come" - pg.229-"People's fantasies are what give them problems. If you didn't have fantasies you wouldn't have problems because you'd just take whatever was there." pg.55
The Philosophy of Andy Warhol, then, presents the critical reader with a portrait of the artist as a shallow, egotistical, superficial, self-contradictory man.
In equal measures, the superficial, almost farcical, totally meaningless art of Andy Warhol is a mystery to me.
It is amusing to say the least and such episodes collectively present a curious and intelligent man-child at the center of the snobbish, cursory extravagance called the Andy Warhol phenomenon.
And to extend this line of thought further, why can't you then make art resemble everyday advertisements that are bombarded on us from all sides, mechanical to the point of being a statement, and in doing so create a persona around it, so that in the end you become your own art?
But unlike the aforementioned artworks, which focus on the endless cycle of production and reproduction - 'The Philosophy of Andy Warhol' is anything but repetitive.
And though throughout Warhol goes to all ends to convince you of his nonchalance his work betrays him, because every single word, every single paragraph, and every single chapter feels entirely deliberate - and that is what makes the book so brilliant.
And yet, while Andy Warhol might like you to think all life is frivolous, his Philosophy ends up proving to be anything but.
Warhol is an artist first and foremost so maybe I should have expected that this 'autobiographical' work wouldn't follow the standard prose format.
Instead I found myself reading a Warhol quote book, quotes that the author found himself enamored with enough to publish under the heading of 'philosophy'.
Write that down."This quoteable pamphlet is bookended on either side by anecdotes of Warhol hanging out with various 'B's in various locations doing mundane things with just enough glamorized flare as to be considered interesting...
Warhol and B hanging out in a hotel lobby...
But hey, I guess maybe that's the point.
El libro se divide en varias temáticas: vida cotidiana, amor, arte, niñez, adolescencia, entre otras. Warhol habla sobre lo que opina de cada uno de estos tópicos, integrando su filosofía en cada una ellos. Describe, también, algunas situaciones banales de su vida dando su particular punto de vista.El libro es recomendable si eres fan de este gran artista pop, pues te servirá para conocer un poco más de como asimilaba la vida y sobre todo su arte.
people rag on me all the time for loving this book as i do. but it's bloody brilliant and Andy Warhol was a good writer and a smart cookie and he was funny as hell. i mean genuinely fun in an uncontrived uncanny way. two of my favorite bits off hand - Andy believes that everyone is entitled to the lighting they need. and he also said that if you could teach youself to love new york in the cold cold rain at about 4:30 in the morning then you could have the city to yourself.
