https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762563.Ball_Four
“A ballplayer spends a good piece of his life gripping a baseball, and in the end it turns out that it was the other way around all the time.” Why you looking at me that way, BOWton?This is probably the most controversial book and the most honest book ever written about baseball. It is interesting how the words honest and controversial seem to travel together like a Harley Davidson with a sidecar. Jim Bouton won two World Series games in 1964 with the New York Yankees, but in 1965 he developed a
“A ballplayer spends a good piece of his life gripping a baseball, and in the end it turns out that it was the other way around all the time.”
Now a normal writer can’t buy publicity like this, but Bouton was still trying to pitch in the major leagues, and the reaction certainly made things more difficult for him.
Sometimes you walk into a clubhouse and there’s a letter on the table for a guy who was released two years ago.”Now certainly, Bouton created more stress for himself because it wasn’t long before everyone in the clubhouse knew he was writing a book.
Jim Bouton - image from NPRBaseball Almanac entry for BoutonBouton sold the materials he used in making the book.
This lovely NY Times piece includes a revelation on where the book’s title originated.
- Materials From Jim Bouton’s ‘Ball Four’ Days Going Once, Going Twice ...
- by Tyler KepnerJuly 1, 2017 - NY Times - another piece on Bouton by Kepner - Jim Bouton, Author and Former Pitcher, Struggles With Brain DiseaseA warm profile of Bouton from Stan Grossfeld at the Boston Globe Jim Bouton still as opinionated as ever
Loved this...sent it to my grandsons, both pitchers, and my son-in-law.
Ball Four might be the greatest baseball book ever written!
Correction, Ball Four might be the greatest sports book ever written.
The haloed Yankees hated this book as it painted their hero Mickey Mantle as less than a shining light, the fans didn't care for that either.
Filled with castoffs and fringe players the Pilots are the perfect team for Bouton to chronologically capture daily life in major league baseball.
You can relive a team's infamous one year season daily as told by a true voice from the inside.

Mostly, I can see why: it is boring, and Bouton takes all 400+ pages to whine about money, coaches, his knuckleball, wanting to start/pitch, and he relishes every opportunity to dish on how depraved every single big league ball player is.He also, with delight, flouted the stated motto that "what happens in the clubhouse, stays in the clubhouse" that governs baseball.And he continually acts surprised that fellow baseball players hated the book.Did I mention that this book is boring?
The book is as washed up as Jim Bouton has been his entire career.This book does nothing to advance the magic of baseball, or really tell about the ins and outs of baseball unless you want to believe that every player is a peeping tom that whines about money and when he gets to play next.
"Ball Four" is the April Baseball Book Club selection, author is Jim Bouton.Jim Bouton played professional baseball as a pitcher from 1962 to 1970.
He played with and against some of the great players of the time: Mickey Mantle, Roger Maris, Elston Howard, Stan Musial, Whitey Ford and lots more.
His book made him a legend among fans, but a pariah among some fellow players, coaches, team owners and last but not least, the commissioner of baseball, Bowie Kuhn.
The end of the book discusses his times and travels after playing.
He also discusses the aftermath of the book and how players would not speak to him.
Written with real humor and skill by Bouton and accomplice, New York sportwriter Leonard Shecter, Ball Four dared to assert that players spent a large part of their time ogling women in the stands (called beaver shooting) and popping amphetamines in the clubhouse like candy.But perhaps the real power of the book comes from Bouton’s anxiety over making the transition from a true star who threw so hard his hat fell off with every pitch to a little-used reliever trying to master the unpredictable (to both pitcher and hitter) knuckleball and hang on to a job.
I fully expected a gripping story full of mystery and wonder, wit and grace, evocative prose reliving the highs and lows of a season on the road.
And in the course of the novel Bouton certainly does have his moments of exalted eloquence, the single sentence: "sometimes I forget to tingle" alone is worth the read.Yet, most of the book is mundane, filled with the quotidian events in a season as a ballplayer.
It's 162 games, it's months and months of your life, it's tiring, exhausting, spirit-crushing work (particularly if you're anything less than the greatest player ever), and Bouton chronicles that part of the season masterfully.
"Ball Four" follows his story a few years after that, when he is desperately trying to keep his major league career going by developing a knuckleball, a pitch his old-school manager and coaches distrust.
The year is 1969, the team is the failed experiment that is the Seattle Pilots, and the hero is not the guy who wins the big game, but the guy who is filling out the roster.
Bouton describes the game from a different point of view than what can be gleaned from the box scores or observed from the grandstand.
Although the Yanks lost the Series that year, Bouton performed well and received much acclaim for winning both of his games and the second one mostly on guts without his best stuff.
Schultz and Maglie were, to put it mildly, skeptical of Bouton and his theories on the knuckleball.But the part of the book that drew the most criticism was Bouton’s reminiscences of Mickey Mantle and his drinking, which was largely unknown to the public.
The show was cancelled mercifully after only a few episodes.I loved this book when I first read it, as a malcontent on my own team in the early 70s.
I'm not a baseball fan, but early this year I heard a brief interview with Jim Bouton and there was something about him that caught my attention - perhaps his voice (you can hear his smile in his voice), perhaps it was his word choice or maybe it was his humor.
I had a choice between reading it and listening and, because it was read by the author, I opted to get the audiobook.Ball Four is only superficially a book about baseball and you don't need to understand or love baseball to get this book.
Rereading “Ball Four” for the first time since 1970, I was struck by how today’s readers would be baffled by the impact that the book originally had on the sports world.
In an era when it’s not unusual for sports figures to tweet their comments about coaches, fans, and fellow players immediately following a game, I’m not sure that today’s fan realizes what a big deal “Ball Four” once was.
Pitcher Jim Bouton’s candor about his teammates (past and present), coaches, managers and Major League Baseball itself was ground-breaking and best-selling.
The other part is enjoying Jim Bouton’s daily struggles as he tries to remain in the majors while extending his years as a pitcher by mastering the knuckleball.
Billed as one of the most (if not the most) important sports book ever, Ball Four reads as a diary of Jim Bouton's struggle to stay relevant in 1969 having reinvented himself as a knuckleball pitcher.
It's important because at the time it blew the lid off the use of "Greenies" (amphetamines) womanizing, overdrinking, and other such habits rampant in the baseball world.Now, on its own with all of these things common knowledge, the book still reads well.
There's as much in there about illegal activities as there is about his kids.
Bouton keeps the story grounded and doesn't read like the average baseball player memoirs.
Jim Bouton wrote a funny, honest book about baseball. He chronicles his own struggles to re-establish his pitching career after a promising start with the New York Yankees. Worth re-reading.
Fantastic. Jim Bouton is an American hero. Also he invented Big League Chew.I can only hope there's someone who's as big a curmudgeon as Jim is in the big leagues now.
The Ghosts of Belfast review, Part IIIPart I http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Part II http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Part IV http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... The Troubles, continued(view spoiler)[ Casualties, continued  (view spoiler)[ Violence level: comparisons to U.S.  (view spoiler)[After doing a lot of calculations and comparisons, I decided to just summarize my conclusions here. If anyone wants to see the data the next spoiler section is where to look.Basically, my
These facts are my reason for saying that the absolute levels of violence during the Troubles were not a sufficient cause for the “reputation” that Northern Ireland had during the Troubles.Numbers and more numbers(view spoiler)[I estimate that the population of Northern Ireland averaged about 1.58 million people during The Troubles, based on data downloaded from http://www.nisra.gov.uk/demography/de...
(view spoiler)[In the last section I concluded that it was not the level of violence that made the Troubles such a difficult time for the people of Northern Ireland, but rather other aspects of what was going on.
I felt an affinity to Bouton and the Pilots – I started collecting baseball cards from that season and got the one year’s worth of Pilots before they moved and changed names.
As I mentioned, I have read many other baseball books, most written after “Ball Four” and many detailing a season with the same kinds of funny stories.
Some of these other books I would say I enjoyed reading even more than “Ball Four” – they tended to be more consistently funny and outrageous (like, say Dirk Hayhurst’s first).
I read an updated version of “Ball Four” with extra chapters describing author Bouton’s life in subsequent years.
My mom recently tried to read Bouton's baseball diary, but couldn't get past March 7.
I've read it more than 20 times and it still means so much to me.
If any book could be said to have changed my life, it would be this one.Bouton was an iconoclast, a breed apart from most other ballplayers, and not just because he read books that didn't have pictures.
Full disclosure: I once wrote Bouton a letter telling him what the book had meant to me growing up.
At the end of the week he called me up and told me how much my letter had meant to him.
Never having read a baseball book before, I enjoyed of Ball Four for the novelty, in addition to its interesting anecdotes and the truth of the reality of baseball. It was also cool to see the contrast of baseball and book writing between then and now.
I've always heard this was one of, if not the best, baseball memoirs, but I find Bouton somewhat unlikable and the book itself a bit boring.
Just couldn't get into this one...
If Bouton had written a memoir thirty years later and shared stories that would not harm his teammates so long after the incidents occurred, that’s one thing.
I will note that in the last section in the book, Bouton shares about the impact the death of one of his daughters had on him, how he coped with it, and how it led to his invitation (finally) to a Yankees Old Timer’s Day. That section is a solid read, and if it the rest of the book had been like that, I would have rated this book 1-2 stars higher.
It can be repetitive, as every other entry seems to have a part about "I'm still trying to get the feel for my knuckleball but Schultz won't let me get a start because he thinks knuckleball pitchers should only be used in certain situations," but that's what it's like to be a baseball player, or anyone with talent and a job and small-minded superiors.Apparently a lot of players were angered by "Ball Four." The standard complaint was Jim Bouton aired a lot of dirty laundry about adultery, voyeurism, and amphetamine use.
A rookie, a team leader, or even an average everyday player, could not have operated on the observant margins of a baseball team and season the way Bouton the sometimes forgotten reliever could.And while I referenced the dismantling of the Ball Four mentality by the Moneyball mind, lest you think baseball is now modern and no longer Neanderthal any real baseball fan will immediately recognize the heart and soul of the baseball game played yesterday by his favorite team.Note on the "Ball Five" of this edition.
This section is not nearly as well written or interesting as the original, and lacks the essential meaningless of the framework of a baseball season that makes baseball work even now as an enduring "pastime".
We discover that major league ball players seem to share similar conversations and interests and outlooks with English professional footballers (traits you wouldn't expect to get them admission to Harvard or Yale), we discover the same hierarchies within clubs and self-importance of owners and management.
The world is crew-cut white and hetero-sexual (a habit of players kissing mouth to mouth on the team bus is disguised as high jinks and black players conform to white social conventions or find themselves on the outer.)What makes the book so readable isn't just the insights into the world but the way in which the story is told.
And Bouton was the better ball player.
Bouton has great comic timing and he has no hint of political correctness in his descriptions of events and people.
To his credit he gives plenty of people good marks, but he can be a little cruel at times when he exposes these unsophisticated ballplayers that were just trying to make a living in a competitive environment.
I first read a used copy of this book in the late 80s and I liked it every bit as much this time around, especially to see that Jim Bouton has grown since those days.
The book does endorse and glorify sexual harassment (aka beaver shooting) and other prurient and piggish behavior.
It's uncomfortable - and of course, the discomfort comes in part from having failed to notice the inappropriateness before.Jim Bouton in 1970 had many progressive views and had uncommon insights into the insular baseball world of his day.
That stuff happened then, and it happens now, but it needs to happen less and less, and Ball Four can help us chart our progress.
I doubt it, though I'm glad sports figures' lives are no longer whitewashed.
I first read "Ball Four" in 1973 and enjoyed it immensely.
As with a lot of things, I've since largely let go of spectator sports.
If I have three or four hours free, the last thing I'm going to do is watch a football or baseball game.
What this book does best of all is capture baseball in 1969.
If you enjoyed experiencing it at the time on a transistor radio and would like to return for a while, like an old hit song, "Ball Four" is there and hasn't changed a bit.
I wish I could give 6 stars.From juvenile dugout antics to the chiseled down contemplations of a man in his twilight years, this book brings you on the journey of a lifetime -- Jim Bouton's lifetime.Right handed pitcher, caring father, teammate of Maris, Mantle, and Ford, inventor of Big League Chew bubblegum, Seattle Pilot, clubhouse rowdy, self taught stone mason, reflective thinker, and a damn funny guy.
I recommend this book be listened to, not read, because you will get to hear the joy, laughter, and pain in his voice as he reads his own story.
I'm tearing up right now thinking about it.Outstanding book.
