https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827274.The_Corn_King_and_the_Spring_Queen
I must confess, I couldn't force myself through the entire book, which is rare for me. It was entirely too long and drawn out, and every time I'd start to form a bond with a character they'd do something atrocious and horrify me all over again. In my opinion, the characters were just too barbaric (but you could say that's true to the setting.) However, amazing amazing historical detail, and loved the way different Greek philosophy views were woven through. It's actually helping me with my World Civ class a bit due to the extreme historical detail.
The best epic novel. I'm not even going to exclude Homer, and not because the novel wasn't an invented form yet, either. Includes rape, machinations, travel, metalsmithing, people as gods in various cultures, war, power, magic, power, politics, power, Greek orgies, exile, ships, power, suicide, execution, and return. The last chapter ruins the book. Skip it.
Still a very impressive work and quite unlike anything else I've read.A few examples of the themes that run through the book;Gender, patriarchy, female power and submissionRelations of people to nature, through ritual and magicThe inner and outer selfThe specialness and contented isolation of Marob, and the playing of this against the ambivalent expansionism of Sparta, and the overblown and paranoid AlexandriaIn Marob, only Tarrik, the corn king feels a similar ambivalence: The god and the chief - the id and ego, emotional and rational, the impulsive and the stoic.
The characters were flat, the dialogue was awkward, and the thing was just too darn long.
What kept me going was the setting of ancient Greece and the mythological intertwinings that joined the characters to their communities.
What I will remember of this is only vignettes, rather than a long coherent story: Berris’ love for Philylla; the spring ceremony of the King and Queen; the killing of Erif’s first son; and her banishment to Egypt.
FAVOURITE QUOTE: “…thoughts and words should be the same thing, only one was transparent, the other opaque; the thought comes forth and crystallizes into the word; dialectic guides it.” [p.
Every time I see or hear 'Rites of Spring' I think of the world of the Corn King and the Spring Queen. Though the rites are different, they come out of similar cultural and religious beliefs about cycles of growth and decline, life and death and what's needed to ensure a good harvest.Mitchison is a great storyteller and this was a terrific read.
Phew! What a long book. And quite entertaining, with its focus on the alienness of the Ancient world, its trials and rituals and vast journeys. The epilogue is the only real scuff mark on this. I might have given it a little higher other than that - still, it's an achievement of a novel, worth it if that world appeals to you (it does to me as a classics student back in the day).
Wonderful book about 3d century BC Greece, Egypt and Scythia. History, drama, romance, magic, violent death, this book has it all. Most highly recommended.
This book has been described as “the best historical novel of the twentieth century.” Perhaps informed by James George Frazer’s The Golden Bough, as an attempt to inhabit the mindset pertaining to an ancient belief system it is certainly admirable.
The book at times reads as more of a history of Kleomenes than of the lives of Erif Der or Tarrik.Mitchison’s characters display a matter of fact attitude to sex which might have been unusual in print ninety years ago, yet when Kleomenes refers to “nigger-boxers” - meaning black pugilists - the book’s origins in what are now distant times are apparent.Phrases such as, “‘When things turn simple, women have to give up much more than men.
The collision between the lived myth of Marob and the bright realism of Stoic-influenced Sparta, the nature of magic and divinity, the fluidity and cruelty of the ancient world - all of this forms the subject of this genuinely epic, complex novel and is brilliantly brought to life.
But there’s an ambiguity and a psychological reality to the different worlds the characters move through - both the materialistic straight edge of King Kleomenes of Sparta and the Stoic Sphaeros and the lived magical/mythical experience of Erif Der and her sister witches and people of Marob - that is wholly modern.
This book was a fascinating read.
In this story Mitchison challenged some of the negative views of the time (1920s) regarding the sexuality and autonomy of women, but sadly was censored by publishers from expressing her full opinions.Mitchison was a proof-reader for Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, which isn't surprising as I suggest she was a better writer than Tolkien.
That is not to say the book is any less long-winded than Tolkien's books.
It really drags on in parts and I had to skim quickly through sections to make it through to the end.A short essay about the book can be found here:http://books.google.ca/books?id=J7d2u...
eh, was ok. the worst thing was that the author kept on talking about the Corn King and the Coren Harvest in ancient Europe, but Europe didn't have corn til Columbus et al brought it back in the 1500s
I was so glad when I finally got hold of a copy of "The Corn King and the Spring Queen", as it was such a long time since I originally read it, and it was just as good as I remembered.It is partially set in Sparta at a time when they were trying to re-introduce the old Spartan system after it had fallen out of use and the nobility had reverted to the pursuit of luxury like the other Greek cities.
I re-read it just after seeing a three part documentary about Sparta, and the harshness and cruelty of the system isn't apparent in this story.
What an odd novel.
I loved the historical setting -- a fictional town on the shores of the Black Sea around 200 B.C.
-- and the barbaric tribes vs the Spartan Greeks.
The level of detail was beautiful, and I assume it comes from Greek writings about the barbarians at the time.
What lost me, though, were the random changes in characters, apparently propelled by the need for a plot turn.
222, spun on my heels yet again when a kind husband suddenly turned vicious, I gave up.
This was first published in 1931.
I stumbled upon this book in a used bookstore more than twenty years ago.
The first time I started it, I got nowhere and found it dense and impenetrable.
There was no jacket or back cover to explain what it was about and at the time I don't think there was an internet either, so I really didn't know what era it even represented.
After all these years, it is still vivid in my mind, while I've already forgotten the plot of books I read last year.
The characters were fascinating, the women strong, and the descriptions vivid.Read it, is all I can say!
One short passage in this book (pp. 304-305) turned me on. It starts with the protagonist's baby: "By and bye he began to give little panting, eager cries of desire for food and the warmth and tenderness that went with it. Erif's breasts answered to the noise with a pleasant hardening, a flint ache waiting to be assuaged." The rest of the book has little to do with sexuality, but I loved it. A wonderfully creative blend of archeology, history, mystery, myth and novel. (I found the book through the use of the nursing passage in Margaret Reynolds' Erotica.)
This book sure is epic. As a former student of Classics who has ignored the subject for years, I enjoyed dipping back into the ancient world setting. It also made me curious to learn more about the history of Sparta, since that was not a focus of my previous classics-y learning. I've always been a big fan of myth and there is a lot of myth here to enjoy as well. That said, the book was a bewildering mix. Sometimes stilted, often long-winded, occasionally inexplicable, and sometimes oddly delightful. Aaaaand orgies. I was not expecting quite so many orgies.
I could not finish this book - unusual for me. I checked it out from our library and renewed it twice. It never caught my imagination, but read like a bland history book on the Scythians overlaid with a weak, plodding story line. Neither of the main characters were well developed or appealing. It was like reading historical fruitcake, dense and disappointing after other enthusiastic reviews. I may try checking it out again at some point in the future - perhaps the second half will be better. One can only hope.
Once you adjust your thinking to the language this book is wonderful. I love the time period, the feminism buried in the story and the shades of humanity that flicker and change with the story. I became a big fan of Naomi M. and her work after reading this book.
I ran out of gas on this one. Too panoramic, trying to take in the entire ancient Mediterranean world in one volume. And what the feck is a kataleptic phantasie?
