https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90822.Abraham_Lincoln
I enjoyed this book a lot, though its style (kind of a Thomas Wolfe rip off) got on my nerves after a while.Two Lincoln anecdotes I highlighted, which give a good sense of the book's tone:"Protests of innocence often came from men plainly guilty.
'I must pardon you,' said the governor, 'I can't have you here corrupting all these good men.'"And:"Six days after the Fort Pillow massacre Lincoln spoke at a Sanitary Fair, reminded his Baltimore soldiers that in looking out on so many people assembled to serve the Union soldiers, the fact was that three years earlier the same soldiers could not so much as pass through Baltimore.
Look, there are obviously lots of Lincoln biographies out there, and I have read many of them, but after having read this book, I have concluded that the others are merely imitations of Sandburg (some of them very good imitations, certainly, and worth your time, but imitations nonetheless).Consider that this book is a condensed version of Sandburg's six-volume (!) biography of Lincoln, and you realize that its level of detail is merely suggestive of the detail to be found in the six-volume set.
This is a biography of Lincoln by the esteemed poet Carl Sandburg.
The story, of course, starts with his family settling in Kentucky, where Lincoln was born in 1809.
Later, he moved with his family to Illinois.
Lincoln began in New Salem and later moved to Springfield.
Then, the work goes on to explore his place in the Civil War. The volume speak poignantly of the family tragedy that he experienced (the death of a child is always difficult), the strained relationship with his wife, the challenges of orchestrating the Union's war effort.
I suffered from the assassination of Abraham Lincoln and I gloried in the prose of Carl Sandburg.
Sandburg noted that when Lincoln died he became a legend surrounded by mythology.
And so this book did not seem so much to be a compilation of historical truth as a collection of homegrown stories.
And yet I would like to think the stories and the anecdotes captured the truth of the man and the times.
It is fair to say that the book captures Lincoln as both a hero and a villain.
I started "The War Years" in 2010, 150 years after Lincoln's first election in 1860, and have pretty much kept pace a volume at a time, following his presidency 150 years later.
This had special meaning this year, as Marla and I attended President Obama's Second Inauguration under that dome (we got engaged at the top of the dome, beneath the Statute of Freedom), and our former boss Senator Schumer spoke from the platform about how the completion of the dome in the midst of the ongoing Civil War signified that a united country would be achieved and live on.5/09 - Just finished volume one of the six-volume Sangamon edition.
Abraham Lincoln lived before he became a politician.
He farmed, he worked on the Mississippi River hauling freight, he labored with ordinary people.
He truly was born in a cabin with a dirt floor.
He had no benefit of an education, but devoured every book that he could get his hands on, eventually becoming a lawyer.
This unabridged version of his biography chronicles every part of his professional life.
Lincoln was a man with a dry sense of humor.
He was a great storyteller.
He was a modest man.
But his empathy, his steadiness, his tenaciousness were the source of his greatness.
It was in reading this book, strangely, that I realized the possible cause: the range of narrative voice employed by authors (especially contemporary "literary" ones) is extremely limited.
Based on those two factors alone, additional racial, regional and cultural profiling could be extrapolated, based on the various and marked inequalities that exist along those lines.Back to Sandburg's biography of Lincoln, it isn't written with the flare I expected from one of America's better poets, and, from what I've read on the internet (the best place to find facts), it is not the most reliable account of its subject.

Wow....what a great book. I figured before I allowed Spielberg and Daniel Day Lewis to poison my mind with their view of Lincoln, I'd go to the source and read this Pulitzer Prize winning bio. I'm glad I did. Sandburg is a great writer in the same vein as Barbara Tuchman and William Manchester. He paints a vivid portrait of Lincoln....I highly recommend this book. You may not learn a lot you didn't know, but I guarantee you that you will put the book down and think deeply about matters. What a great book.
My kids and I have taken an interest in Abe Lincoln and have enjoyed the illustrations as well as the stories in this book. In fact, we used it in our family's Memorial Day devotional, which was very powerful in educating us about those who have gone before and what they have accomplished for our liberties.
I wanted to learn more about Lincoln....and this book delivered. Wonderful writing with plenty of detail.
This such a great book, and it made me fall in love with Mr. Lincoln.
Written by Carl Sandburg, narrated by Arthur Morey, a very long audiobook - over 44 hours of listening.
Starting with details about Lincoln’s heritage, his grandfather also being an Abraham Lincoln, his father Tom, the brief life of his mother Nancy Hanks, the book traverses Lincoln’s life, election, presidency, the American Civil War, through his ultimate assassination in April of 1865.Narration by Arthur Morey is superb.
It’s apparent that Morey admired Sandburg’s writing and Abe himself.If you are interested in the preeminent insight into Lincoln, an in-depth look at his foibles and amazing intellect, this read is a must.
Really great book.
Working my way through the Presidents, I thought I might skip Lincoln, as I'd previously read and seen in so much about him in film and on television.
From this book, I learned many interesting and entertaining facts, especially about Lincoln's early life.
The author does a terrific job of weaving the story through Lincoln quotes and dozens (hundreds) of quotes written during Lincoln's life by his friends and enemies.
Powerful writing.At 44 hours, the longest book I've listened to.
Worth the journey.Excellent narrator!
I'd be very happy to listen to him narrate historical documentaries.
I read this when I was a senior in high school, and when I finished the final volume after nearly two months of reading, I cried because there was no more to read.
This is an amazing rendition of Abraham Lincoln's life.
If you read it out loud, it is beautiful to hear.
A few of Carl Sandburg's poems are this way, such as "Choose Something Like a Star." If I am not mistaken, this is the longest and most comprehensive biography that has been written.
Mr. Sandburg also wrote a condensed version of this biography in one volume, which I have also read.
Long audio book (over 44 hours) of Sandburg's famous biography of Lincoln. It is not a biography in the academic sense but more a series of anecdotes and stories mixed with history that reveals the honest, hard working, compassionate Lincoln as the symbol of the best of the American people. He was beloved by most and hated by some.
Fascinating, extremely well researched and written. Gives a wonderful glimpse into life and issues in the earlier years of our country through all that Lincoln experienced and was involved in.
Was the true cause:1- States Rights2- Slavery3- southern stated succeding and the firing on Ft. Sumpter4- northern aggression, invading the south5- to preserving the union6- social and economic differences between north and south7- some or all the above8- something not stated above9- and why was the election of Abraham Lincoln used as the catapult to war.
Vol - III covers From Lincoln's swearing in as President and the critical task in picking out Cabinet and the Uncertainty in being able to avoid War With the Southern States (CSA).
Take, for example, Lincoln’s own words on the subject as quoted in the book: “Although volume upon volume is written to prove slavery a very good thing, we never hear of the man who wishes to take the good of it by being a slave himself.” He called slavery “the durable curse of our race.” As you move through this book, you’ll explore Lincoln the young man with his friendships being rare, but running deep.
Sandburg died in 1967 at the age of 89.Despite lacking access to many of the historical sources available to modern Lincoln biographers, much of Sandburg’s “The Prairie Years” rings familiar to readers acquainted with Lincoln’s life.
Written by Carl Sandburg and published in 1939, it was published about a dozen years after Sandburg’s two-volume “Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years” covering the first five decades of Lincoln’s life.“The War Years” was a monumental effort which earned Sandburg, already a well-known American poet and an increasingly well-regarded biographer, the 1940 Pulitzer Prize in history.
But it positively races along, giving us a view of the young Lincoln, his loves, the many forms of work he undertook, including as a boatman on the Mississippi or a surveyor after his beginnings on farms (and a failed period as a shopkeeper), before he launched himself into politics and the law.By far the bulk of the book, however, deals with the last four years of his life, as President and during the war.
I had always considered Abraham Lincoln to be a great man and President who had led the country through troubling times and had abolished slavery in the United States.
I gained a greater appreciation of the man and leader through this work.
While prosecuting the war to keep the Union together, he did not ever choose to view and treat them as an enemy to be destroyed and punished.
He did not strive to engage in punitive measures only prosecuting what was required to win the war.
Lincoln’s life is inspiring, and Sandburg is both exhaustive in his research and almost poetic with his prose. The first third of the book is particularly good, as is the last couple of chapters describing the assassination and the national mourning that followed. The one downside is that it is a little bit choppy in its flow, being an abridged version of Sandburg’s original 6-volume edition.
It gave lots of details and stories that I hadn't read about in other books, things about his early life in the west (Indiana and Illinois), details about his marriage and family life, many of his well known country stories that he used to convey political points, quotes from fellow attorneys and political figures he worked with, how he kept in touch with the common people in his presidency, etc.
He was like a diamond with many facets, each of them shining and exposing a different side of the man.
Things I've come to appreciate:• Washington politics had just as much vitriol in Lincoln's day as today.
This charge didn't go off.• The American public was just as divided in Lincoln's day regarding slavery as today's public is about issues of our time.
How many would do this today?• Lincoln came from an unusual geographic perspective, a time and place where his American youth was surrounded by real wilderness and wilderness values.
Surgery involved saws with little understanding of infection.I wanted to read Lincoln's biography after watching Team of Rivals but thought Sandburg's talents as a writer and poet would offer a different perspective.
This was the world Lincoln grew up in.The first half of this series, the Prairie Years, were very much in the details of Lincoln’s life.
Often leaving people having to think, “Did he understand the question I just asked, or did that story have anything to do with what I just asked?” Perhaps this might be where my dad picked up the habit.
I know dear old dad was a huge fellow admirer of Lincoln and probably read of these stories over the years.The War Years were a big picture view.
These facts were what this series covered more and more toward the end.I’ve long admired Lincoln, more so now.
A challenging aspect when writing about a war-time president is trying to share the right amount of information about the war, specifically individual battles.
My only large criticism was the use of examples to prove a point.
For example, positioning Lincoln as benevolent is an important point.
To solidify this point the author provides examples, as he should.
Page after page of examples, to the point of exhaustion was a distraction.
I can’t tell you how many points were beat to death with too many examples.
This flaw kept this book from being one of the all time great presidential biographies.
As an Abraham Lincoln enthusiast, I can't believe that it took me this long to listen to this classic biography of our 16th president.
This comprehensive biography is early enough that it doesn't suffer from the modern inclinations to reinvent Lincoln in some "novel" way in order to garner some new niche in the historical academic world or the marketplace.
Only those who have read at least half a dozen books on Lincoln and/or the Civil War can start to appreciate the pattern of Lincoln's goodness and genius that begins to emerge from our historical interpretation of the past.
I strongly recommend this biography as a good starting place.
Magisterial and innately human in its depiction of Lincoln, not hagiographic but instead deeply "normal." This isn't "Lincoln as Jesus" or even "Lincoln as Strategic Mastermind" that so many other later biographies tried to convey.
And Sandburg shows frequently how those burdens DID nearly crush Lincoln by showing him being sharp with certain visitors, sarcastic with office-seekers, and downright curt when he had to be.
It's easy to see the influence of this work on so many later depictions of Lincoln, but Sandburg's portrayal of Lincoln is one of the finest I've read as it didn't have to portray Lincoln as anything other than what he was.
90-some-odd years ago, Carl Sandburg published the first part of a 6 volume biography of Abraham Lincoln (the last part was published in 1939).
Realising that people might not want to read something that long, he pared it down to a 1 volume book of about Lincoln.
This feels like a thorough book about Lincoln.
You'll get a thorough feel for Lincoln.
I didn't know a huge amount about him (beyond willing the Civil War, his assasination, and suspending habeas corpus), and it was well writen without feeling like the author wanted to impress us with the amount of research done.My one grumble would be that when you precis such a long work, you're going to repeat points, and that occurs here, especially when it comes to the stories Lincoln told.
