https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/873746.The_Midnight_Folk
Parents may deny it but things are different in the dark and the goings-on at midnight in the book might be real, only a child knows for certain and only in the dark.It's kind of the antithesis of Disney.
Parents, themselves grown up on more than a spoonful of sugar themselves, love the cheeky chappies and happy, sparkly endings of Disney with all the bosom-y almost pre-teen princesses.
But children really love that little shiver of fear that a book with supernatural horror and terrors engenders.
Perfect rereading for an adult who will get the sly little jokes about gambling and drinking that Masefield slipped in.
I am in no doubt this story had lots that inspired J.K.Rowling, and if anyone has read both this and the voyage of the dawn treador they will know that inspiration is far too polite a way of putting it but vast chunks of the storyline have been taken and used by C.S.Lewis, in places it feels almost word for word.
If you're reading this book aloud it will be fun doing all the different characters voices although I found Nibbin's voice hurt after a while ( high pitched cattish voice ) Beautiful illustrations too.
An amazing dream of a book that unfolds with surreal logic as cats talk, witches fly, foxes plot against gamekeepers, model ships sail away with a water-rat captains and a hundred other odd and wonderful things, while Kay tries to discover the fate of his great-grandfather's lost treasure. The voices and the language are as magical as the various miraculous and mysterious occurrences. It utterly refuses to make any sense of things or offer explanations or justifications. It's pretty much its own justification, that's what.
I'm being a little silly in characterizing this book as magical realism, but it does seem to fit it best.
Like  Alice in Wonderland, it depicts fluid physical laws.
Unlike Alice, it draws no really meaningful lines between the world where the rules apply and that where they do not.
The magical happenings that befall Kay Harker partake both of the logic of the dream world and the concerns of the waking one.Kay is a young boy living in his familial country house, but overseen by unrelated and seemingly uncaring adults.
Mum, however, being a great fan of the Laureate's poetry followed this up with The Box Of Delights which I found almost as impenetrable until the delightful BBC serialisation came out in time to entrance my own children.
Of course that is the whole point of magic....it doesn't make sense and transcends the real world, but personally I prefer more structure and less confusion in my stories.
In today's world where everything shared publically with children must be subjected to the PC censorship rules one might think twice or thrice about sharing Masefield's extra-ordinary tale at all in which a presumably benevolent dictator is suddenly invoked and rewarded at the end of the story with a great treasure trove....
Absolute classic. I place this (and its sequel The Box of Delights) right beside The Chronicles of Narnia and The Children of Green Knowe series. The imagination at work here is that of a genius storyteller. The imagery, the prose and the phrasing create an unforgettable adventure story full of magic and fantasy and lost treasure. There are witches and talking animals and toys that come to life. I guess you can tell that I thoroughly enjoyed this.
With the annual rewatch of The Box of Delights tomorrow, it was time to get around to Kay Harker's earlier adventures.
Though I've seen the BBC adaptation plenty of times, I don't think I ever read either of Masefield's books when young - and though this is charming, I'm glad the BBC version of the Box stands alone.
For if Kay has already had all these adventures, these tangles with Abner Brown and Pouncer, then the Box itself comes to seem a little less wonderful, less of a numinous intrusion into the everyday world.
This reads as if Masefield wrote it in one go and that's why it’s a bit rough around the edges - and also why it's full of amazing events and episodes that just couldn’t have been planned.
If you want the one you have to put up with the other.
I particularly like the bit where Kay is taken down to the guard-room and finds out that the toys that he thought he’d had taken from him are all alive and well and secretly looking after him still.
I also like the way that animals and people change sizes without anyone (Masefield included) thinking it's odd or in need of an explanation.
Lavie Tidhar wouldn’t stop ranting on about this, which after I got from the library turned out to be a cutesie y/a book from the 1920’s about a typical plucky everyboy protagonist-orphan pursuing a lost treasure in the face of his evil governess who is also a witch. I liked its indifference to making any sense, which is an aspect of y/a literature that’s largely been lost these days, and it went by pretty quick. Obviously I’m not the target audience. Then again, neither is Lavie?
I cherish this book.
I still have my early 60's Puffin paperback edition with the 1930's b/w spot illustrations on the cover washed over by psychedelic swatches of (midnight) blue and purple.
My parents listened to a broadcast version on BBC radio c1960, and soon after bought the book--eventually read (and avidly re-read) by my sister and me.
The story grabs you from the very beginning and doesn't let go.
Contains some of the finest descriptive prose I've ever read in a children's book.
Masterly story-telling.
This is not a sugary book at all.
Can't recommend this book highly enough and the original illustrations by Rowland Hilder are simply wonderful.
I know that it is all to easy to say a book is dated - it can be many things- from references to actually events, technology - all the way to words and phrases.
But this book just feels old - it shows it in the mannerism and attitudes of the characters, it shows itself in many subtle and small ways.
And it all adds to he charm of the book, you see the whole book has quite a simple plot to it - its the many characters and adventures that kay has along his way that is the real story.
I read this because I really enjoyed the Box of delights and this is the first book he wrote about Kay. I heard that it wasn't as good, it's definitely not as good as the sequel, the story is far less cohesive, but it was still enjoyable.
This is one that I think children would really enjoy, it is just full of imagination.
Reading this now I felt I was too old to enjoy it properly but I think I would have really loved it when I was around 7 or 8.
I found this title because I wanted to read a children’s classic for myself over Christmas.
I was reading reviews on The Box of Delights and found out this was the first one in the series.
What an enchanting, magical British children’s story.
This story follows the little boy Kay searching for a lost treasure rumored to be about and all the magical creatures that appear at night also in search of the treasure.
This has a way about it that actually might make it a *wee* bit hard to read aloud, one has to pay close attention, but those that do are richly rewarded by lovely details.
I can’t wait to read the second soon.
Not as charming as its sequel, The Box of Delights, but necessary to understand the characters and plot of it. The Midnight Folk moves at a rapid pace, and isn't a book for slow, lingering reading. It must be read as quickly as possible, so as to keep up with all the characters and settings and action.
I'm rereading this (to my son) and am as happy as the first time. Everything unfolds perfectly from a child's perspective. Infused with wonder, with its own dreamlike logic, offering no simple answers, there's nothing cute or overly nice about the story or characters. Put this on the same shelf as Alice In Wonderland and The Phantom Tollbooth.
I absolutely adored this book as a child. Everything about it resonated with me, far more so than any of his other works. Perhaps it was the cats. I do, and always have, had a 'thing' for cats. But it was also the elements of magic and mystery, and the wonderful names of the animals. Just superb.
I admired the writing, but didn't much enjoy reading this. Masefield builds the characters almost solely through dialogue and throws you right into the action (admirable!), but there are so many characters operating in obscurely devious ways, the plot becomes hard to follow. The story is imaginative, but lacks warmth. I never felt like I broke through the periphery of eavesdropping.
A little night magic: less well known than its sequel, The Box of Delights, and understandably, if not deservedly so, for this is less an action adventure story and more a series of vignettes.
But what episodes they are, weaving fantasy, magic and intrigue and you’ll be rooting for little Kay, a plucky chap, against his mean-spirited and unpleasant keepers.
The animal helpers are splendid fellows, particularly Rollicum the Fox, and there’s a curiously muted intro for characters such as Maria and Caroline Louisa, who play such an important role in the next story.
A subtle, disturbing, important work.
I have vague recollections of maybe reading this book as a child ...
Anyway, I couldn't remember enough to spoil the enjoyment of reading this lovely tale.Kay seems to be a very lonely boy - living with his governess, a maid and a cook.
In exploring this magical new realm, he gets caught up in searching for some long lost treasure.This is a great, simple adventure - fantastic characters, , moments of suspense and humour, and a neat little ending with a cheerful, happy note.
There are some brilliant drawings throughout and, as you'd expect from a poet author, some funny little verses peppering the story.
Well worth reading.
For anyone who came to Kay Harker's adventures through the BBC1 Box of Delights series, The Midnight Folk is probably doomed to be read as a mere prequel.
But while it's looser and even more arbitrary in its magic than the Box, it has its own strengths.
Seekings, Kay's rambling old house, comes into its own as a location, and the book is strongest when it focuses on the terror, delight and invention of childhood exploration.
Steeped in place, history, and Masefield's ear for the rhythms of a character's speech, this has probably stopped functioning as a true kids' book.
I complained about the chapters being too long in The Box of Delights - well, here there are NO chapters.
I'm still puzzled about things in this book (though I very much like that the tacked-on ending from BoD is specifically refuted).
In BoD, Peter, Susan, and Maria are Kay's real-life cousins and they participate (even on their own without Kay).
In this book, their names are mentioned maybe twice and I really don't understand what they are supposed to be.
They certainly aren't named as cousins, and apparently in this book they are old toys(?!?) - that Maria speaks is just another example of real and fantasy worlds blurring.

Not quite a classic but very enjoyable, and a satisfying, unexpected find. The New York Review has brought this book and its sequel, The Box of Delights, back in print in very nice editions. Loved the rough illustrations that go right along with the story, which is often surreal and headlong in the way a young and unfettered imagination can be. Shape changes, talking animals, fairy doors opening almost at random--Masefield just throws them in as needed to keep things moving, but it all works better than you might expect. A fun read for the holidays.
I wanted to read 'The Box of Delights' and found out this was the prequel... The use of imagination in this book is amazing but I have reached the age (unfortunately) where I need explanations as to why a character can suddenly breathe underwater or ride a fox or fly and be mistaken for a bat. So all in all, I found it a bit hard going but worth sticking with, I think.
Previously read: December 18, 2012----------------This is an excellent children's book. It clearly inspired Neil Gaiman's "The Graveyard Book," and there are so many things that J.K. Rowling borrowed for Harry Potter that it's downright ridiculous.
A wonderfull story full of a hodgepodge of fantasy. Rollicum Bitum, The Keeper, the withces, Brassy Cop.I crept out of covert and what did I see?Ow-ow-ow-diddle-ow!But seven fat bunnies, each waiting for me.With a poachers noosey, catch the fat goosey, Ho saysRollicum Bitem
I had bought this for my 8 yr old granddaughter after reading all the rave reviews... I was so very disappointed! SO MANY wonderful stories to read that this one cannot come close to.
Somehow it all seems related to a question that nags him: what became of great-grandfather Harker's treasure?Remarkable and magical things start to happen, usually at night.
Kay becomes acquainted with the animals and other strange beings who emerge around midnight, and they help him slowly puzzle out the mystery of the lost treasure.
Will they find the treasure before a gang of sorcerers do?Masefield writes about childhood and magic, the natural world and seafaring, and lets them blend into each other.
Lots of scenes of people telling other people what other people had done, were doing, or were going to do.I thought it was interesting, but as a historical artifact, "fancy, that used to be the sort of book one would give a child and expect them to enjoy it!" Will still try the next book (Box of Delights) which is apparently more of a classic and perhaps the author learned lessons from book one and applied them to book two.
Fingers crossed!(Note: 5 stars = amazing, wonderful, 4 = very good book, 3 = decent read, 2 = disappointing, 1 = awful, just awful.
Not my normal style of kids books, but I really did enjoy this one and know why it is considered a classic.
I loved all the rhymes and songs and tongue twisting names (Twiney Pricker, Piney Trigger!) and funny speech spelled out so you have to pronounce it out loud to understand.
Not quite like nonsense stories, which I can’t stand (Alice is not a favourite around here), but definitely not too realistic either, and lots of depth that is asking for a second reading.
I think my sons will love this book when they are old enough to read it.
