https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40881621-the-book-of-disquiet
But it does take a little explaining.Fernando Pessoa, in order to express various philosophical and poetic moods, constructed a series of what he termed “heteronyms.” The heteronym, although similar to the mask or persona, differs in that each one is equipped with a name, a personality, a biography, and a physical description, as well as a distinct writing style.
The Book of Disquiet, on the other hand, is the work of someone who knows himself well, and cares only about reaching a kind of existential purity: a clarity of view, a refinement of mood, the isolation of particular beauties that resonate more deeply and linger longer than the others.Soares is a monk of the poetic mind, for whom aloneness is a vocation.
Richard Zenith, the editor and translator of this stunning, haunting, and achingly beautiful paean to the imaginary potentiality of man, has compiled the definitive edition of this tome in a truly outstanding translation that captures the expressive eloquence of Pessoa and his magical, metaphorically rich manner of constructing word images to portray his unique way of life.There is no finer encomium to the shattering melancholy and bracing affirmation of loneliness and solitude than the five hundred plus entries that make up The Book of Disquiet; and few better descriptions of existential nausea, of the desperate efforts to perceive a reason to continue with the painful disappointments, shadow terrors, and numbing meaninglessness of human existence.
I'd even dare to say that this is more than a mere book, it is a gate to upper thinking, a new way of understanding the world, a new philosophy, a daring and maybe even scary but sincere approach to what is hidden in our human souls, if we are brave enough to look.I knew a bit of Pessoa before I picked up this book.
Vastly known Portuguese poet, famous for his ability to create different "personalities" and stick to them closely to perfection, writing in different styles according to the voice of each character.
We'll never know.Anyway, even though I knew about Pessoa, I wasn't prepared for this book.
7A connection feels meaningful when it is direct, goes deep and is complete.8Dreams I’ve never bothered to write down, thoughts and follies that were interrupted: much of what I have said, written and thought is lost.
On the sandy path there was a small patch of pebbles and I resolved to pick one up and throw it into the sea far below when I'd get close enough.
It felt important to share the moment so I turned wonder into an anecdote.14Sometimes reality feels like the dream that my inaction brought to fruition.
Sometimes reality feels like the remnants in the sieve through which my dreams are poured.
Τελικά αυτό που αγαπάμε είναι μια δική μας έννοια και ο εαυτός μας.Αυτό είναι αλήθεια σε όλη την κλίμακα του έρωτα.
Είναι ο μόνος που δεν προσποιείται μήτε κοροϊδεύει τον εαυτό του.Να λες.
Η ζωή δεν αξίζει τίποτα παραπάνω: το παραπάνω είναι άντρες και γυναίκες, υποθετικοί έρωτες και ματαιοδοξίες ψεύτικες, προφάσεις της πέψης και της λήθης, άνθρωποι που κινούνται πάνω κάτω, σαν ζώα όταν ανασηκώνουμε μια πέτρα, κάτω από τον μεγάλο αφηρημένο βράχο του γαλάζιου χωρίς νόημα" Το πρώτο μέρος του βιβλίου της ανησυχίας είναι ένα πάζλ απο περιπλεκόμενα όνειρα.
'We're well aware that every creative work is imperfect and that our most dubious aesthetic contemplation will be the one whose object is what we write. But everything is imperfect. There's no sunset so lovely it couldn't be yet lovelier, no gentle breeze bringing us sleep that couldn't bring yet sounder sleep.' Almost all my feelings…As soon as I turned the last page, I realized how much I was going to miss The Book of Disquiet. For it has been my faithful companion for over two weeks, as my f
'It sometimes occurs to me, with sad delight, that if one day (...) the sentences I write are read and admired, then at last I'll have my own kin, people who 'understand' me, my true family in which to be born and loved.'
I feel, in this moment, like a man who wakes up after a slumber full of real dreams, or like a man freed by an earthquake from the dim light of the prison he’d grown used to.'• 'It sometimes occurs to me, with sad delight, that if one day (...) the sentences I write are read and admired, then at last I'll have my own kin, people who 'understand' me, my true family in which to be born and loved.
"I follow the course of my dreams, making them images into steps toward other images; folding casual metaphors like fans into grand pictures of interior vision; I untie life from myself, and I toss it aside as if it were a too-tight suit."- Fernando Pessoa, The Book of DisquietYou know a writer is great when he makes you want to learn a new language to understand his work in the original.
Even so, this was a brilliant book and one I'm so glad I finally read.Pessoa's writing really consumed me at times.
(42)He who does not know how to populate his solitude, does not know either how to be alone in a busy crowd.- Charles Baudelaire, CrowdsSome dreams want to transcend our minds.
This is the story of a man who lived a thousand lives and wrote about the fragile boundary between reality and dreaming with the most beautiful and heartbreaking prose I've ever encountered.I wanted to read this book for a long time.
And every feeling conceived by an isolated heart longing for an endless dream.
A breath of music or of a dream, of something that would make me almost feel, something that would make me not think.
Loneliness makes me despair; the company of others weighs on me.
Το βιβλίο αυτό ονομάζεται "Βιβλίο της Ανησυχίας" και είναι ένα ταξίδι απο απο μία άγνωστη αφετηρία προς κάποιον άγνωστο προορισμό.
Έτσι, μέσα στις απέραντες εκτάσεις της ψυχής με πυξίδα την αίσθηση και την ευφυΐα μας θα μπορέσουμε να διακρίνουμε αν οι μορφές του ονείρου στην πραγματικότητα τους, είναι διαφορετικές η μία απο την άλλη.
Παραθέτω δυο αποσπασμάτα, ένα απο το "Βιβλίο της Ανησυχίας" και ένα απο το ποίημα "Η πόλις" του Καβάφη επειδή θεωρώ πως αν ο ποιητής μας είχε ασχοληθεί με την πρόζα κάπως έτσι -ίσως και καλύτερα- θα έγραφε.
Livro do Desassossego = The Book of Disquiet, Fernando PessoaThe Book of Disquiet (Livro do Desassossego) is a work by the Portuguese author Fernando Pessoa (1888–1935). تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم ماه آگوست سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: کتاب دل واپسی؛ نویسنده: فرناندو پسوا؛ مترجم: جاهد جهانشاهی؛ تهران، نگاه، 1384؛ در 335 ص؛ شابک: 9643512746؛ عنوان دیگر: کتاب دل واپسی برناردو سوارز کمک حسابدار؛ موضوع: سرگذشت شاعران پرتغالی - سده 20 منقل از متن کتاب: اگر کسی مالک رودخانه ای روان باشد، آیا باد وزنده ن
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم ماه آگوست سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: کتاب دل‌ واپسی؛ نویسنده: فرناندو پسوا؛ مترجم: جاهد جهانشاهی؛ تهران، نگاه، 1384؛ در 335 ص؛ شابک: 9643512746؛ عنوان دیگر: کتاب دل واپسی برناردو سوارز کمک حسابدار؛ موضوع: سرگذشت شاعران پرتغالی - سده 20 منقل از متن کتاب: اگر کسی مالک رودخانه ای روان باشد، آیا باد وزنده نیز میتواند از آن کسی باشد؟ ما نه صاحب اندامیم و نه حقیقت و نه حتا رؤیا.
پس از پیدا کردن دوباره ی دست نوشته‌ های پسوا در سال 1982 میلادی، جهانیان بی‌درنگ به شایستگی‌های ستودنی وی پی بردند، و دریافتند که او همزمان بزرگترین نویسنده ی سده بیستم میلادی پرتغال، نخستین پایه‌ گذار نوگرایی در کشورش، و نخستین بانی پسانوگرایی در جهان بوده‌ است.
أن تري الأشياء يعني أنك بعيد وأن ثمة مسافة ..
لكن حياتي التي وصفتها اسخف منها كثيراً ..احسد الناس جميعا لكونهم ليسوا انا !فكلما كان الإنسان أطول قامة ، تحتم عليه أن يحرم نفسه من أشياء كثيرة ، في القمة لا مكان سوي للإنسان وحيداً ، كلما كان أكثر إتقاناً ، كان أكثر كمالاً ، وكلما كان أكثر كمالاً ، كان أقل اندماجاً مع الأخرين ...
Si en un comentario a mi anterior lectura (Madame Bovary) resaltaba la importancia casi absoluta de la forma narrativa en mi apreciación de las obras, me topo con esta donde esa forma, la música que del texto brota se manifiesta con tal fuerza y belleza que consigue que saboree cada uno de sus desasosiegos sin importarme lo más mínimo compartirlos o no e, incluso, como me ha ocurrido en varias ocasiones, si no comprendo un carajo.Pero hay más.
¿Qué pediría si tuviese que pedir?
Después de una incursión prolija en la gran poesía, hacia los montes de aspiración sublime, hacia los peñascos de lo transcendente y de lo oculto, sabe mejor que bien, sabe a cuanto es cálido en la vida, regresar al albergue donde ríen los necios felices, beber con ellos, necio también, como Dios nos ha hecho, contento del universo que nos ha sido dado y dejando lo demás a los que escalan montañas para no hacer nada allí en lo alto.
¿Qué manos extenderé hacia el universo?
And so, leaning over the bridge, I wait for the truth to go away and let me return to being fictitious and non-existent, intelligent and natural.”Keeping in mind that this work is written by Bernardo Soares, the heteronym considered to be the closest to Pessoa’s real self, these lines acutely express Pessoa’s yearning to live an imagined life, as if in a dream, so as to forget his actual self in real life.
And this will of course continue no matter how many read Wallace or Lee Rourke or this here little chat.So what I'm really driving at is this: what's the point -- literally; I'd really like to know -- of fiction (or art of any kind) that gazes into the void *and then keeps gazing*?
Surely after 100 years or so we can ready him safely enough.It is not the glamour of ennui/emptiness that interests me; so the tears I find beautiful are those tears that Pessoa wrote onto the page - and those that were left behind in his trunk - and those he chose to ignore.
Flow lightly, life that does not even feel itself, a silent, supple stream beneath forgotten trees! Flow softly, soul that does not know itself, a murmur hidden from view by great fallen branches! Flow vainly, aimlessly, consciousness conscious of nothing, a vague, distant glimmer through leafy clearings, with no known source or destination. Flow on, flow on and leave me to forget!  Flow smoothly, book that does not realize its influence, supple prose poem with ignitions of profundity. Read sl
Flow smoothly, book that does not realize its influence, supple prose poem with ignitions of profundity.
It is said that we learn more about life when we write, that we find ourselves within our prose (especially memoir writers).
As I write this, I understand more about myself, and as I read his words, I realize that he and I are nothing alike, and yet we have so much in common:
My existence is all damp caves and dark catacombs." To live in tedium is to hope for a second chance at life, where one can do the things one has always imagined doing.
Y ni siquiera, el deseo de que lo haya…Es realmente difícil para un simple lector como yo reseñar libro de semejante envergadura, dado que cuesta mucho describir utilizando las palabras adecuadas lo que la lectura de este libro de Fernando Pessoa genera en uno.Este libro posee una variedad de sentimientos, emociones y reflexiones tan amplio que deja al desnudo cada pequeña partícula de ese ser tan especial que fue Pessoa.Un ser humano único, vulnerable, soñador, desencantado, sentimental y solitario quien vivió toda su vida en la soledad y el retraimiento, acuciado por las enfermedades, arrestos de locura y los embates del alcohol que terminaron minando su vida.Pessoa fue un ser de luz, cuyo talento innato para la poesía le hizo recalar en la prosa de una manera increíblemente bella.
The main thoroughfare here is a subdued Munchian scream about the ‘tedium’ of life, examined from every angle: a diary of emotional bowel movements which Pessoa attends to lovingly on practically a daily basis, with a German stool inspecting precision.
Pessoa wallows in misery like a pig in shit.
Some people should just stick to 50 shades of grey and leave the big boys to those (e.g. us) who can appreciate a finely tuned study of the self.
Job: “My soul is weary of my life.”Pessoa/Soares: “I'd woken up early, and I took a long time getting ready to exist.” Pessoa/Soares: “I write because I don’t know.”You are planning a party; here’s your guest list:Dostoevsky’s Raskolnikov (from Crime and Punishment)Melville’s “Bartelby the Scrivener”Kafka’s Gregor Samsa (from The Metamorphosis) Joyce’s Stephan Dedalus (from The Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man)Camus’s Merseault (from The Stranger)Beckett’s MolloySatrre’s Roquentin (from Nausea)I'm a comics guy, too, so let's let in Noah Van Sciver (who wrote Disquiet [I suspect naming it with Pessoa in mind] and a comics biography, The Hypo: The Melancholic Young LincolnHmm, maybe you also invite Hamlet (for some historical perspective) to recite his “To be or not to be.
Πρόκειται για ένα από τα μεγαλύτερα έργα όλων των εποχών.
Μου πήρε πολύ χρόνο για να τελειώσω το βιβλίο, σχεδόν 6 μήνες.
Σε κάθε του φράση έχει κάτι σπουδαίο να πει, σε σημείο που ανά μερικές σελίδες σταματούσα για να συνειδητοποιήσω το βαθύ νόημα των λεγόμενων του.
Αντιλήψεις στις οποίες ποτέ έως τώρα δεν φανταζόμουν ότι θα μπορούσα να καταλήξω με τον δικό μου τρόπο σκέψης.
Κέρδισα πολλά από αυτό το βιβλίο, όχι τόσο από τις ιδέες του συγγραφέα, αλλά το ότι άνοιξε καινούργιους ορίζοντες στο μυαλό μου, κάτι το οποίο σπάνια έχω συναντήσει.Σίγουρα θα διαβάσω πολλά του έργα ακόμη.
Oh, God, this is amazing.I've covered the whole thing with frenzied annotations. I need to lie down and think for a moment. This is a beautiful and melancholy look into the loneliness of the dark of the human spirit. Overwhelmed. Pessoa is a genius at describing solitude and dreaming.Will come back to write something more fitting later.
Pessoa, who was Portuguese, wrote the segments over the course of the last twenty years of his life, which ended in 1935.Pessoa invented multiple personas for himself that he called heteronyms, and each of his novels or collections of poetry was written from the perspective of an alter ego.
The collection of writings in this book are measures of the interior life of one Bernardo Soares, which Pessoa described as being a “mutilated version” of himself, but perhaps the closest to his own beliefs of all his heteronyms.
...بداية يجب أن أذكر أني تعرفت على بيسوا مصادفة لم أكن أعرف هذا الشاعر ولم أسمع عنه قبل أن أمد يدي في معرض الكتاب على ديوانه رباعيات والذي كتب فيه أرق وأعذب قصائد الحب وهي القصائد الوحيدة التي كتبها في الحب لقد شدتني عذوبة هذا الشاعر وروحه الشفيفة وتصويراته الرقيقة كأن يقول المريول الذي أخذته من الدرج أليس له جيب لأضع نفسي فيه لأكون قربك دائما !
)إن هذا الكتاب لا يمكن أن تتماشى معه أي تسمية أخرى هو كتاب خالي من الطمأنينة التي يبحث عن أي إنسان على وجه الأرض ستصلك أحاسيس الشاعر من خلال حرفه السوداوي وربما ينقلك لحالة من الكآبة والحزن والشعور باللامعنى !
Decadence is the total loss of unconsciousness, which is the very basis of life.”The Book of Disquiet is an anthem to the futility of life and a hymn of life’s preciousness.“And so we were left, each man to himself, in the desolation of feeling ourselves live.
A ship may seem to be an object whose purpose is to sail, but no, its purpose is to reach a port.
We found ourselves sailing without any idea of what port we were supposed to reach.
I have not created my own host of fellow souls, but I am intimately familiar with the ever present malaise, the hesitance toward human interaction, the constant worry over ones reputation with others (strangers on the streets to valued friends to all levels of knowing).
What chemical pattern of brain influenced by the combination of genes sinks the self down into introversion, into deep safe waters, always craving yet disdaining yet loving yet loathing the concept and existence of the sun.
Or in what order he would have presented the work or novel, had he finished it.The sequence in which the fragments have been ordered (presumably, from a selection) is actually a triumph of sympathetic editing.However, I'm not sure whether, if the author intended the work to be a novel, it would have looked anything like what I read.To the extent that its formal concerns might qualify it as a work of Modernist fiction, you have to ask whether they derive from the author or his editors.Textual PersonaeI am nevertheless equally fascinated by the metafictional pretence behind its submission to the reader.The work purports to be the product of the heteronymic author, Bernardo Soares, a figment of Pessoa's imagination.Soares was not just a pseudonym for Pessoa writing as himself.
The Review of Disquiet Ken. O. O. BachEdited and Translated by Junta1I was born in a time when possibilities were expanding by the day. However, so did the proportion of young people who lost touch with their dignity. It seems the trend will only continue. Visible and invisible disparities.2I love the idea of myself. I am proud, but not vain. I know my defects are too strong for me to love myself as much as the idea of myself.3The idea of living is tedious. One is much more comfortable living i
One is much more comfortable living inside the mind.4Knowing time only goes forward, towards inevitable death, yet feeling nothing.5As I lie in darkness at night, it seems I am capable of anything.
Living in the mind is a voluntary privilege, luxury and virtue that should not be accessible to everyone.40"What do you want for Christmas?""My fermented thoughts from ten years ago."41I have always been fascinated by people who can show their feelings and opinions so openly.
Pessoa is best known for writing poetry using "heteronyms," meaning that essentially he had multiple personalities who all were writers.
Then someone put them in some kind of order and made a stunning book.
I think each edition of the book has them in a different order, but get the Exact Change edition, if you're gonna get it.
Their books are so gorgeous (I have a whole shelf of only Exact Change books, because any other books put next to them look shabby by comparison), and I'm pretty sure they need your money.
Plus that's the edition I have, so it must be the best.
“By thinking so much, I became echo and abyss.”  4.5 stars. I’m experiencing a minor bout of amateur reviewer’s block, so this write-up will consist solely of my favorite excerpts from this gorgeous, haunting, restless, prismatically fragmented—yet strangely whole—entity. Perhaps this lack-of-review is even fitting, as one of the themes explored extensively within these pages is that of passivity versus activity, of living too much in one’s own head to the detriment of engaging in reality. (Ha
The commander is dependent.”“I’m the character of an unwritten novel, wafting in the air, dispersed without ever having been, among the dreams of someone who didn’t know how to complete me.”“When I write, I pay myself a solemn visit.”“Life is the hesitation between an exclamation and a question.”“What I’m feeling isn’t true madness, but madness no doubt results in a similar abandon to the very causes of one’s suffering, a shrewd delight in the soul’s lurches and jolts.”
“We never love anyone. What we love is the idea we have of someone. It's our own concept—our own selves—that we love.”OMG! This is the best book I’ve read in a loooooooong time! I was thinking that I would never have a favorite writer other than Fyodor Dostoyevsky, or a favorite book other than The Brothers Karamazov. Fernando Pessoa and his Book of Disquiet changed that!I’m shocked, but I have to say this: from now on, Pessoa (along with Dostoyevsky) is my favorite writer, and The Book of Disqu
Fernando Pessoa and his Book of Disquiet changed that!I’m shocked, but I have to say this: from now on, Pessoa (along with Dostoyevsky) is my favorite writer, and The Book of Disquiet (along with TBK) is my favorite book!Pessoa is the one who created the term "heteronyms" (many different independent selves which exist within a single person – alter-egos).
And I’m sooo happy that I found such a wonderful writer, and such an AMAZING book!
I could read only bits at a time, for Pessoa's struggle to understand the world and his place in it mirrored my own and my many gasps of recognition left me breathless.
It's our own concept—our own selves—that we love.* Fragment 152: To write is to lose myself, yes, but everyone loses himself, because everything gets lost.
A treasured read I will return to again and again as I struggle to make sense of my life and my place in the world, as Pessoa did nearly a century ago.
I begin because I don’t have the strength to think; I finish because I don’t have the courage to quit. This book is my cowardice. .  ........ It sometimes occurs to me, with sad delight, that if one day (in a future to which I won’t belong) the sentences I write are read and admired, then at last I’ll have my own kin, people who ‘understand’ me, my true family in which to be born and loved. But far from being born into it, I’ll have already died long ago. I’ll be understood only in effigy, when
Once we’re able to see this world as an illusion and a phantasm, then we can see everything that happens to us as a dream, as something that pretended to exist while we were sleeping.
And I wonder if my apparently negligible voice might not embody the essence of thousands of voices, the longing for self-expression of thousands of lives, the patience of millions of souls resigned like my own to their daily lot, their useless dreams, and their hopeless hopes.
Θα μου πείτε μα καλά θα ήταν διαφορετική διαβάζοντας ένα βιβλίο που αγγίζει τα όρια της κατάθλιψης αν δεν τα ξεπερνάει για κάποιους, ένα βιβλίο που στιγμές μπορεί να σε βάλει στη διαδικασία να αναφωνήσεις καλά σοβαρά εγώ τώρα γιατί το διαβάζω αυτό και κάθομαι και καταθλίβομαι από μόνη μου.
Πέρα του ότι σαν ανάγνωσμα είναι από κείνα που σε επηρεάζουν βαθιά στη συνείδηση σου και μένει ανεξίτηλο στη μνήμη μου θεωρώ ότι πετυχαίνει αυτό που λίγα βιβλία πετυχαίνουν στις μέρες μας.
Surely if one takes seriously his views, for example on political disengagement (one should quietly submit even to unjust rule), on living apart from humanity ("you are only free if you can withdraw from men"), life and death ("death is liberation because to die is to need no one else"), et cetera - there are a multitude of other examples which I unfortunately cannot provide due to my ineptitude at gathering quotes as I read - surely as incongruous as these views are to non-misanthropes, they cannot be held up as valid moral axioms, and can only be admired in the abstract, on the assumption that they are not opinions sincerely held, but merely a form of poetic expression, which is understood to be romantically overstated, so that in its diminution and its dilution with the banal and the commonplace, some profound ideal may be glimpsed.
Great writers inevitably challenge the logic of traditional syntax as well as the genres in which they write to transform their genres by the genius of their innovative literary styles which become legacies in themselves.Pessoa writes in fragments which are neither fiction nor poetry but are autobiographical and as such show his disconnect both with life and his own art -- there is no real flow between one fragment and the next like life itself in his existential worldview.
He writes about his dull job as an accountant among Lisbon's streets and his sightings while smoking at outdoor cafes as well as about thunderstorms, solitude, dreams, the absurdity and futility of life, art, sex, JJ Rousseau and his work.
In your mind, picture an old man who dines in a nearby cafe everyday.
When he died, his relatives saw these sheets of papers and 50 years after his death, this book was published.
So far, the best 1001 book that I've read this year.
He said that this book was the best 1001 he read last year.
In fact, it took me almost a full month to finish this book but I must say that all the many hours I spent in it were all well-spent.Highly recommended to all those who have the patience to know fragmented yet beautiful thoughts of an old philosophical man.
This just might be the 15th, 18th or 19th 'top 10' book that I have ever read.He is not French, not one of the old Russians, not Irish nor English.
Almost biblical.I can only compare it to the New and the Old testaments, the Koran, and others of this ilk that have been read over and over by generation after generation.I have been all around Europe.But what I loved about Lisbon, about Portugal, was its' indifference to its' neighbors.The Portuguese speak and behave without swag, without conceit, without pomp, without attitude.Within the confines of Europe, they are a unique people.They seldom embellish and seem quite comfortable with how and who they are.And if you perceive them as a different sort, unlike you, and more like Icelanders, so be it.Reykjavik has Laxness.But only Portugal has sowed arguably the greatest writer of all time.Fernando Pessoa.
Tabii bunlar aslında birçok farklı kimlkle eser vermekten ayrı bir zevk aldığı anlaşılan Pessoa'nın kendi iç döküşleri.
Zor bir kitap; 700 sayfaya yakın hacmiyle, akıcı denemeyecek yapısıyla, tekrarlarıyla bazen niye bu kitabı hala elimde tutuyorum diye sordum kendime.
Pessoa da zaten pek farklı düşünmüyor; "Bu sayfalarda mevcut olan bir başkası.
Ben daha şimdiden, hiçbir şey anlayamaz haldeyim.
Çok özel bir kitap bu.
Mutsuzluğunun farkında olmayan bunca insanın mutluluğunun ürperttiği Pessoa'yı okumak, özellikle günüzde hayatın hızlı temposunda epey bir sabır ve zaman istese de, okurken benim gibi defalarca söylenseniz de, bitirdikten sonra ayrı bir tatmin duygusu veriyor.
"We generally give to our ideas about the unknown the color of our notions about what we do know: If we call death a sleep it's because it has the appearance of sleep; if we call death a new life, it's because it seems different from life.
And in fact the false name and the true dream do create a new reality.
Apparently my brain is just going round and round in circles...I also now take something a little different from the quote - much more about the way language and naming operate to prevent "open" interactions with Things.

The Book of Disquiet is a LiveJournal blog as written by E.M. Cioran or Albert Camus.Bernardo Soares, Pessoa’s leading alter-ego, imagines “the corpse of [his] prose” being “lowered into general oblivion” upon his death.
This might have been the case had not archivists rescued his fragmented idlings from the black void and published them in this volume.It strikes me, given Soares’s desire for extinction, and the delusion of posterity, that this selection of writing is redundant.
What impact can one man’s daydreams, solipsistic tracts, repetitive observations, written from a chronically depressed mind, have on another?
With The Book of Disquiet, Soares has written himself into extinction.
Pessoa – "Dreams Without Illusions"I am free and lost.I feel.
The word "spiritual" does not even really say it, it is the unveiling of things as they are, and the raw bare telling of it.
Then I started doing some serious work and met some real teachers and everywhere began hearing the same thing: this life is a dream.
No wonder then that he spent the majority of his life in solitude, connected but not relating to his fellow humans.
Writing, I suspect, created outlet and purpose, and of course companionship, in a life alienated from the ignorant dramas and delusions of the sleeping world.
Difficult, yes - perhaps impossible - to read from cover to cover, The Book of Disquiet is, page for page, like all Pessoa, so supremely 'easy' that at times it almost seems nothing has been said.
And yes, at times you'll wonder why you're reading it at all.
For the Bernardo Soares in each of us.Regarding the translation, I think Richard Zenith is overrated, but I find this more of a problem in the poetry than the prose.
As to Zenith's translations of the poetry, his Pessoa & Co. is the only book I own that I have covered in angry scribble.
A man who sees and cannot not see. Having had a normal childhood and adolescence the banality of life appeared, even in his dreams. He sees no way out,  "Living seems to me a metaphysical mistake on the part of matter, an oversight on the part of inaction." However, he needs daily life-it is like a "mother" to nurture him after he has flown so high in the transcendent light of soaring poetry. Clearly he recognized that being here, in the no moment of existence, his future is his past already flo
He sees no way out, 		"Living seems to me a metaphysical mistake on the part of matter, an oversight on the part of inaction." However, he needs daily life-it is like a "mother" to nurture him after he has flown so high in the transcendent light of soaring poetry.
Even the writing of the book, its poetic prose and style is at times monotonous as a means of distancing, doubting, seeking confirmation within himself.
None of this subtracts from the grace of his transcendent poetic prose.The book begins and continues, as Pessoa himself says, it is him minus reason and affect.
