https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25034042-the-hog-s-back-mystery
As an added bonus, Crofts included a "clue finder" in the final chapter, where Inspector French walks the reader through the solution.I've settled on three stars for this one.
All too often fictional detectives are depicted as dysfunctional cheating alcoholics with their lives in turmoil, so Inspector French's simple, prosaically happy marriage was a breath of fresh air that added some much needed complexity to his character.It has long been clear to me that character depth and development is just as important to my enjoyment of a book as a compelling plot or a surprising twist.
I will definitely give Crofts another go on the strength of my affinity for French, but for my money, he could forgo some of the tedious clue dropping and just get on with the story.
This is the first mystery by Freeman Wills Crofts, that I’ve read, a prolific writer I wasn’t even aware of before.
The Hog’s Back Mystery was his fourteenth novel, the fifth featuring his well-known policeman Inspector French.Freeman Wills Crofts, was a railway engineer who began writing in 1919 during a long illness.
As well as mystery novels, Freeman Wills Crofts published short story collections and both stage and radio plays.
As the novel opens, Julia Earle and her sister Marjorie – who is visiting – are meeting Ursula Stone, an old friend from schooldays, off the train.
This one is well written and meticulously plotted and Inspector French is an interesting and likeable character.
A semi-retired doctor disappears one evening without trace.
Inspector French can find no trace of him at all and he apparently simply walked out of the house in his slippers.
I did work out who I thought it was but couldn't work out how it was done and it is fascinating to see it all explained at the end including page numbers for where the clues appear in the text.If you like crime novels as puzzles then you will probably enjoy this one.

This book demonstrates his commitment to ‘playing fair’ with his reader – to such an extent that, when Inspector Joseph French of Scotland Yard finally solves the mystery, the reader is reminded of each page where a clue was planted.
And if the three missing people have been murdered, what can be the motive?” Inspector French cleverly works out all of the clues he needs to solve the conundrum, and manages to let us know how he did it.
So, the mystery devolves into a puzzle that becomes a game for French.
I enjoyed this British Library Crime Classic, the fourth or fifth I’ve read from the collection.
This one was a bit ‘dry’, in that it’s mostly procedure.
There’s very little in the way of character development, and I found the scene-setting a bit inadequate in parts.
The plot, though, is clever and detailed, which does go some way to making it an enjoyable read.
It seems from Martin Edwards’ foreword that the author did concentrate on procedure and investigation.
The Hog’s Back Mystery, A British Library Crime Classic by Freeman Crofts The Hog’s Back Mystery, A British Library Crime Classic by Freeman Crofts is a mystery that has lots of twists and turns and kept me guessing. Because the pace was slow I gave it three stars. I received a complimentary Kindle copy from Poisoned Pen Press and NetGalley. That did not change my opinion for this review. Link to purchase: https://www.amazon.com/Hogs-Back-Myst...
I have to admit that there are elements of the writing style that irk me — particularly the presentations of calamity and the asides that disrupt the flows of conversations — but the plotting is excellent.
Most of the book is spent trailing after Inspector French while he figures it all out.
It was a fabulous read!In this book, Crofts takes an entirely different approach.
It's not until the last chapter that we're given any answers though.The most interesting part of this book, from a writing aspect, is the fact that our point of view changes.
It's only when Inspector French arrives on the scene that we switch over and begin to see the story from his point of view.
In this book, Crofts has pulled it off seamlessly and it's brilliant.
Every book from this era, and this genre, you can't help but compare to Agatha Christie and this writer in terms of plot comes near to the clever convoluted style that Christie employs; small cast of characters, all well drawn and plausible, and all potential suspects!
Some may find the dogged police procedural style, down to Detective French's thoughts and list making, trips, lunches, and constant dead ends dry or dull but I enjoyed it.
Apparently the author experimented with writing styles in his books so perhaps the Hogs back Mystery was a dud.
Anyone who is a cosy crime reader like myself is definitely going to enjoy it - it is in my opinion one of the better Crofts books & I thoroughly enjoyed reading this novel with its meticulous method of plotting - even though he does sometimes go over the same point too frequently.
However if you don't like your crime books to be based on puzzles, timetables & alibis then I won't bother with this author at all, as his stock in trade are all of these things and later novels (1940s) can be further irritating as he brings in his moral & christian points of view which I personally do not wish to read about.
BUT as a mystery it's really solid - lots of clever misdirection, a long walk to the point when you get to see the big picture of what's going on but nothing at all held back (if you're clever you could work out things quite a bit before the denouement I think), well paced so the interest is constantly kept up, a wide pool of believable suspects.
You'll only like it if you like the mystery aspect a lot BUT if you do it's a pretty neat story, imo.
I highly recommend this detective, mystery story for anyone who enjoys the genre.
I will not give away any of the story, but I will say that how it is written is very different than the usual detective story, some may find it tedious, but I really enjoyed it.
The main character, the detective, actually acts like a policeman and does the legwork and the thinking and the research in the investigation and figures out a very complicated, confusing and seemingly impossible crime, but it makes sense and you can follow along, yet it isn't tedious or boring.
Another example of FWC's incredible attention to detail. The reader is privy to all of French's thought processes, ideas and emotions as he cracks this apparently perfect crime.I thoroughly enjoyed it. Top notch. Highly recommended.
This is one of my favourite Inspector French crimes.It is interesting and intricate, a really good example of a classic puzzle mystery.
That was a creative way of doing what was done there, but it was merely a brief interlude between interviews and cogitations.I figured out most of the solution about halfway through which meant pushing on to see if I was right.
That's not to pat myself on the back (although, en passant, I figured out The Sixth Sense about halfway through as well), but rather to lead into the final chapters, in which French lays out his solution.
(view spoiler)[Reggie being at the golf club at exactly the moment Campion needed a car, Campion planning in advance by purchasing three of the same dollhouse so he could establish an elaborate alibi, etc.
This book has the same style as other works of Freeman: great amount of investigation, every single detail of the plan of the inspector is carefully depicted so the readers can have a fair chance of solving the crime before reaching the last pages, and above all, a well-thought alibi and in this case, the readers must not follow the beaten paths that we normally think of a case like this in order to discover the culprit(s).Also, one thing I like about this book was it was very inventive.
(How somebody who works at the ticket counter at a train station in London can remember someone he sold a ticket to a week ago?) I found the second part enjoyable and steady-paced until the ending of the book where the explanation of two murder mysteries took about 30 pages with so many references to previous page numbers about the events sounding the murders that it was more like trying to read a blue print of a machine, leaving me so confused about what really happened.
I personally like reading murder mysteries that focus on human condition and interactions.
I really love these classic British mysteries. This one finds Inspector French called out of London to investigate what is at first believed to be a disappearance. Of course, it turns out to be 2 murders, followed by 2 more murders. The bodies aren't discovered until about halfway through the book, which only complicates things. How do you investigate a murder without bodies? Ultimately, the bodies are discovered in a rather unusual place, and French can proceed to solve the case.
I really enjoyed this and I'm delighted that I've finished this book club book 6 days before our meeting.The plot twists and turns. I had figured out a few of the details myself, but hadn't quite put it all together. I liked the way that all the threads were pulled together, for those of us who had missed a few of the clues. I'd forgotten how much I enjoy murder mystery stories, and appreciate that this did not have a ton of blood and gore like a lot of modern books.
I had high hopes for this book, since Crofts was quite a popular writer just after the war. But the style of this book, although it started out promisingly, just grated on me the more I read. The inspector's thoughts, especially, became monotonously repetitious and I struggled to read through to the end. Disappointing.
Plotted very well with the timing of the murder hinging on train times, tea times and yes, tee times! This is a fair play mystery; if you paid close attention, you could determine the whodunnit but you would need to use your little gray cells. I am spending April reading only classic mysteries and this one was well worth my time.
I have been looking for mysteries from the "Golden Age of Murder" add to my read list. Our library has quite a few, including this author that I had never read. Set in the North Downs of England with Inspector French as the investigator. Crofts is said to "play fair" with the reader, not leaving out information or clues that would help solve the mystery. It was a very satisfactory read.
Freeman Wills Croft books are all about the alibi. As such they are buried in timings and timetables which his detective, Inspector French has to piece together to solver the murder.Unlike other "Golden Age" dectective french is a rather colourless character. Overall an entertaining read, interesting as historical evidence, and undemanding.
Very much a cozy English mystery. Quite intriguing and some (unintentionally?) funny depictions of English characters in the early 1930s. Sadly it gradually gets more and more histrionic towards the end and the denouement/explanation is unnecessarily complicated and confusing.
This book has an excellent first 75% but by this time I was frustrated that the author had not spotted obvious clues. On that basis the culprit was easy to work out. I truly liked this book for most of it but found the end too drawn out.
I really did enjoy this, it's a vintage police murder mystery in a leisurely pace. ones of the things I most enjoyed was that French is so real, he goes home at the weekend to his wife because they're looking forward to a drive out to the coast.
The British Library Crime Classics series has opened my eyes to writers I had never heard of before and I'm really enjoying exploring new detectives. If you enjoy this genre then try some of this series. This particular one is excellent.
OKGood book but very geared to the police digging up a means & motive. Results in it lacking in action & gets distinctly ploddy at the end.
3.5 stars. My first inspector French novel. Crofts does a great job!
