https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1951427.The_Spanish_Cape_Mystery
I recently acquired 23 novels by the infamous Ellery Queen through a used bookstore on-line.
(Powells) In case you never heard of this author, Ellery Queen is a pseudonym for two people, Frederic Dannay and Manfred B.
The novels are all murder mysteries and the great detective, Ellery Queen, not only solves each case, but the reader is invited along side the detective to solve the mystery himself.
Why is the victim naked?
All in all this mystery has many twists and turns as Ellery Queen deduces step by step all the answers to solve this mystery.
Another great Ellery Queen novel.
I enjoy the challenge to the reader, because unlike other mystery writers, the EQ team provides everything for you to solve the case.
Although I can't ever seem to do it (probably because I just enjoy the ending and "listening" to Ellery explain everything in his reasoned, clinical manner).
I enjoyed it, as I do all of the EQ novels in the 1930s.
As I mentioned in my review of On the Eighth Day, I do not like that many of the later novels were farmed out to others...
The pace of this book dragged a lot. There wasn't any suspense. I figured out who the murderer was quote easily. The ending might have made more impact if I'd have cared for any of the characters. Add a dash of fat phobia to all this and it just wasn't a very fun book.
Solving it, however, didn't prevent it from being a fun and well-constructed puzzle to solve (unlike lesser-Christie), and I didn't fully commit to the correct solution until I'd done a bit of thinking and re-reading, which brings me to...This is one of those early Queens that has the Challenge to the Reader.
I've solved it" and then asking the inspector to gather everyone up, but I appreciate how explicitly Queen lets the reader know they should think everything over and try to solve- it keys folks into the notion that reading Queen is meant to be an active challenge rather than a passive imbibing of information linearly, page by page.In any case, good stuff.
It's been quite a while since I read a mystery set in the 1930's.
Charming but of course predictable.
The stock set of wealthy characters, all hiding secrets, all somehow involved in the eventual murder.
Then in comes the police, upstaged by the detective (Ellery Queen), who hijacks the investigation and of course solves the crime.
And to make it stylistically perfect, the denouement comes in a final climax scene with all involved where Queen lays out the who done it and how done it, before he rides off into the sunset in his Duesenberg automobile.
This is a mildly entertaining read.
This is the first Ellery Queen novel that I've read, and it may not the last.
This whodunnit it clever enough, but for me, I happened upon the solution very early on.
I will say that I was disappointed we really didn't learn much about Ellery Queen, the character, much at all.
He was not a well-developed character at all, and in fact we learn more about almost all the suspects than we do about him.
Still, this was a light easy-enough mystery novel to ponder.
As always a fancy read - but this time a found the murderer earlier than Mr Queen did!
In a word: Great!This author (I know, I know...authors) is very entertaining, and provides a true challenge to the reader.
The reader is given everything they need to solve the crime...if they dare!The plot: Ellery Queen and his friend Judge Macklin are off for sun and surf.
These are not cookie cutter stock players for the typical mystery novel --- there are characters tragic and noble in this book.I have a few more Ellery Queen novels on my shelf that I picked up at an old bookstore...I am already looking forward to the next one!

An early Ellery, still a little stodgy (twirling his pince-nez) but loosening up, not yet gone Hollywood. The dialogue and supporting characters are very slangy and mannered, as in 30's movies or songs (yes, one individual refers to "The Argentine"). But there's a tricky puzzle, affecting scene of suicide, and enough action to keep me engrossed on this rereading, twenty-five years after the first time. The long explanation chapter--formerly my favorite part--is my least favorite now.

The last of Queen's "nationality" titles and the end of his (their?) first period. Spanish Cape signals the shift from the impossible crime to more psychological puzzles, perhaps because Queen realized he'd wrung all the changes out of the impossible crime genre. The case is interesting, although a little easy to figure out (I got it, missing just a couple of minor details) and involves a blackmailer found naked on the terrace wearing only a fedora and a cape. No Inspector Queen here, but Judge Macklin fills in and does his best to keep up with Ellery.
Ellery Queen is just looking for a few weeks along the coast, but he and his companion, the elderly Judge Macklin, find a kidnapped girl in their hired cottage. When they take her home, they learn that one of her wealthy father's guests has been murdered under peculiar circumstances. Ellery applies his logician's mind to the problem, but those pesky human emotions keep getting in his way. I remember reading this many years ago, and how shocking the ending seemed. Perhaps I remembered too much of it to feel the same frisson now.
Ellery Queen books are quite inconsistent. They're a mixed bag. The more difficult is it to solve the crime on your own, the worse the book is. This I've gleaned from experience in reading the blighters. As for this particular book, there was too much melodrama and not enough drama. Concretely, too much eavesdropping was going on to facilitate the solution of the case. Ellery Queen had to find out a lot of the mystery by a too well informed butler. There was a single murder, and by the time the mystery hemmed and hawed, I was losing interest.
One of Ellery Queen's earlier books, it has a bit more detail to it and provides a solid read. There are red herrings to pull you off track, yet the clues are all there. This adventure finds Ellery on vacation and in the company of Judge Macklin heading for the coast for a bit. This is one story that doesn't include Inspector Queen.The cast of characters is colourful and there is logic galore in the analysis of the clues.
Okay, I guess. Parts of it were fine, although I figured out the murderer by chapter 4. However, it does suffer from being a book of its time with respect to its borderline misogynistic treatment of women. However, the bit that really stuck in my craw was when three apparently respectable men - Ellery, the Judge and the policeman du jour - stood back and watched a man beat up his wife, in the hope that she would give them some clues.
Ellery Queen and an old family friend head to a seaside cottage for a vacation and wind up in the middle of a bizarre murder. Interesting, well thought out story complete with social mores and technology of a by-gone era. And, of course, near the end Ellery breaks the fourth wall to let us solve it for our selves.
I'd never read an Ellery Queen book so this fulfilled a sort of bucket list item. The most enjoyable aspect was the 1930s setting, style, and language. It was so much fun to read words like "rascally," "perfidy," "scoundrel," and "perspicacious" with sly humor but no irony. I think I'll read another.
Classic who done it!This is a perfect book for lovers of classic mysteries. The story was gripping and left me highly annoyed with my chatty seat mate on the last leg of my flight, who prevented me from reading the exciting conclusion until after my arrival.
A Slow Start But Quick RallyThis started out with some slow written verbiage that slowed down not only my interest but my reading speed. It was only my love of Ellery Queen, that kept me foraging through that first wordy chapter to a gem of a mystery story, worthy of Mr. Queen.
Some books stand up to the passage of time; some no so much. I'm afraid that Ellery Queen, and this book is particular, despite an intricate puzzle not easily solved, falls in this category. An okay read but just too outdated to inspire much delight.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
A little better than average. If you pay attention, you can figure this one out.
Always good to match wits with Ellery Queen.
Another great mystery by EQ.
I enjoyed this book. It was an interesting mystery. I would definitely read Ellery Queen again.
Mildly interesting. Don't want to read anymore.
1984 no gradeaudio novel
Interesting Have never read Ellery Queen before. Not a bad read, just seemed to drag a bit. However it was enjoyable.
again, queen is great. keeps you guessing and trying to figure- who- done- it
