https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38436.The_Cat_Who_Played_Post_Office
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to The Cat Who Played Post Office, the 6th book in the Cat Who mystery series, by Lilian Jackson Braun. This is one of my favorite books in the whole series. It's actually the book that really changes the series, moving Qwill from the urban city atmosphere to 400 miles north of everywhere. Yes, some changed in the previous book, number 5, but this is the one where Qwill had to make some decisions about his future. His Aunt Fanny has passed away, leaving him millions o
4 of 5 stars to The Cat Who Played Post Office, the 6th book in the Cat Who mystery series, by Lilian Jackson Braun.
It's actually the book that really changes the series, moving Qwill from the urban city atmosphere to 400 miles north of everywhere.
His Aunt Fanny has passed away, leaving him millions of dollars; however, he has to move to Moose County where she lived for 5 years to inherit the funds.
but he eventually stay a lot longer than 5 years.It kicks off with Qwill having some memory issues post-accident.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
I am almost positive this was the first “The Cat Who…” book I ever read - many, many years ago.
Also, my memory is for shit anymore so it’s like reading them all for the first time.
Anyway, the 6th book in the series is a good one.This time, Qwill's beat was ...
I enjoyed the reappearance of people we've met before - one of the advantages of reading the books in order.
The mystery this time involves the disappearance of a maid 5 years ago, and Koko is really integral to solving the case; his increased involvement is something I really enjoyed.
I have to say that so far this is one of the best in The Cat Who series as far as suspense and unexpected plot twists are concerned.
I thoroughly enjoyed the twists and turns in this one and I could not put it down until I finished it.Qwill starts the story in the hospital after someone tries to run him over during his daily bike ride.
As Qwill and Koko dig deeper into the mystery of the missing girl the people surrounding the case begin to die strange, unexpected deaths with the final death being the most surprising of all.
As usual our dynamic duo solves the case and life is good until the next mystery begins.
I like how this one starts with Qwill's loss of memory, and Arch having to remind him.
This is one of my favorites in the series, because I prefer the Pickaxe books to the books set 'Down Below'.These books are definitely for cat lovers, and for those who love a good mystery with a nice, slow build up.
I read this while waiting for my boyfriend to fix the bearing on a trailer, so it was a very quick read, but like all in the series a very good one.
And it's amazing at times who those murdered or doing the murdering turn out to be!Ms. Braun brings a few characters from the city novels, such as Iris Cobb, to Pickaxe City with Qwill.
She also begins building upon the characters she introduced in the last novel - the attorneys handling the estate, the young doctor (who's taken quite a liking to Qwill), the Junior Editor of the local paper, Goodwinters all.
Indeed, this new setting will allow Ms. Braun to present certain characters more fully - and character building is one of her greatest strengths.Koko's clues in this novel seem to be more cerebral - showing a true, psychic connection between himself and his mustache wearing caregiver.
However, this is one of the best Cat Who … books, so it was not a difficult task at all.James Qwilleran and his two Siamese cats, Koko and Yum Yum, have officially moved to Pickax City in Moose County.
But there is much more to the story than that, and it is a truly strange tale.But for all the mystery and danger, life in Moose County seems somehow both more amusing and safer than in other places.
Without Koko Jim would be lost. Koko is definitely the brains behind the outfit.
After an accident leaving Jim Quilleran with temporary amnesia, he slowly learns that he has inherited a fortune and that someone may be trying to deliberately 'rub him out'due to the questions he's been asking about the disappearance of a young girl.
Koko the cat is using his brilliant, unfathomable clue-finding skills to help Quill solve a mystery that the town he finds himself in would rather just leave swept underneath the rug.
series is always such a joy to read, particularly being a cat-appreciater myself as well as a murder mystery fan.
With lovable characters (human and feline) and their lovable idiosyncrasies, I look forward to reading another one soon.
The best in the series. Geez louise, why is it called a cozy mystery, the story was heart brokenly dark. Yeah yeah, most of characters are adorable loonies and cats are the brains of the whole affair, but ouch, my heart. And I don't even have one. The doctors confirm.
Early in the book I wasn't loving it ... but as it went on I began to enjoy this story. It was really about the cat solving a years old mystery ... and it was kind of fun.
The catch is that it is in the small town of Pickax City in Moose County, north of where he was living, and he has to live in Moose County for five years to become vested in this inheritance.The book opens with Qwill in hospital with amnesia as to who he is, where he is and why he is.
This seems to be the transition book between Qwill's past and future.A fun read with a plot that pulls you along to find out the end.
First Read: 01/01/1989: I have to say that so far this is one of the best in The Cat Who series as far as suspense and unexpected plot twists are concerned.
It is one of her earlier books in The Cat Who series and she's really doing a superb job.
But I like Qwillerin and the cats - and there is always lots of books and food in the stories, so I enjoy them!
Enjoyed reading again, I like her writing.
This series offers delightful entertainment for listeners of all ages--especially those who love cats.
This is book #6 in The Cat Who Series.
CharactersJim Qwilleran: Prize-winning reporter with a nose for crime.Koko: Siamese cat with extraordinary talents to assist in solving mysteries.Yum Yum: The other Siamese cat; the sweet one.Melinda Goodwinter: Qwill's present girlfriend, a doctor in Pickax.Penelope Goodwinter: Along with her brother, Alex, she is Qwilleran's lawyer.Daisy Mull: Former maid, working for Aunt Fanny, disappeared five years ago.Arch Riker: Qwill's best friend from Down Below, an editor for the Daily Fluxion.Amanda Goodwinter: Interior DecoratorAlexander Goodwinter: With his sister, Penelope, he is Quilleran's lawyer.Mildred Hanstable: Friend of Qwilleran, former neighbor, Roger's mother-in-law.Roger: A high school history teacher, Qwilleran's friend.Steve: painter, works for Amanda Goodwinter.Mrs. Fulgrove: housekeeper, has excellent penmanship.Birch: HandymanLori: Postmistress in Mooseville.
The overall plot is interesting if somewhat thin but that's expected in this series but since it's early days in Moose County, the gallery of characters I came to love are just paper thin dolls in this instalment.We meet or get to know more the infamous Amanda Goodwinter, shop owner and designer; her cousin Melinda Goodwinter, the young doctor Qwill is dating; Junior Goodwinter, the young journalist of the Pickax only newspaper; the Goodwinter lawyer siblings : Penelope and Alexander; Chef Brodie; his daughter Franceska; Mrs Cobbs is welcomed back into the fold and Arch Riker, Qwill ex-editor from Down Below also visits.
The late titles have a reverse problems: no plot and only quirky characters passing through.
I don't remember marking so many books from this series read, much less having actually read them.
This felt like almost the first book in the series to me, so I'm surprised it's #6.
The characters aren't what I remembered, either; I think everything mellows out, to some extent, with age...
but I liked reading about Qwill in his new house with his "new" housekeeper.
I love the cozy feeling of this series (even when people drop like flies) and the way that characters grow and change over time.
Braun always writes with authority about interior design, something I keep forgetting to comment on.
that's my comment.)
Enjoyed reading about how a "down under" guy tries to fit into the small community of Pickaxe.
(down under = north of Pickaxe not Australia) In this story Qwill moves into the big estate home he inherited and finds a curious trunk of items that someone left.
A young girl, from the seedy part of town, who worked but then got fired cause she didn't work.
In his trying to find out about the girl's whereabouts he basically kicks a hornets nest and stirs up all sorts of trouble.Again, love the characters in these stories, though in this one...
Another really enjoyable yarn.
I enjoy reading this series of books.
However, I don't let this get in the way of a good story.Here there is a girl who has been missing for five years and no-one seems to have realised that something may happened to her.
The truth comes out in the end with a really surprising twist right on the last page............Do go and try this series for yourself.
It is light, but not insignificant reading.
I find the stories most enjoyable and usually can't put the books down once I have started.
2.5 stars. I just really don't like these books as much as I did when I started. They're OKAY, but I definitely don't love them. I will continue the series for now, just because I enjoy the settings, the murder mysteries, and the cats. But Qwill is still very unlikeable. He thinks every woman he meets wants to go on a date with him, when he is ALREADY dating someone who wants to marry him! Hello?!Ugh. Also, I thought the twist at the end of this book was really lame.
And Qwill's ship finially comes in. He (and by extention Koko and Yum Yum) inherit from Aunt Fanny...a mansion and potential comfort.Spoiler below:The discription of the library in the mansion really got to me (despite the presence of certain types of books I have no interest in). When later the library (along with the house) burns down the only thing I could think of in the fire...was the library burning. All those books.
I always enjoy Lilian Jackson Braun's The Cat Who... series, even though they are fairly far-fetched. This one sees Koko figuring out that there has been a murder, which leads Qwill to investigate, instigating two more murders and an attempt to kill Qwill. Each time I read one, I want to get a Siamese cat!
Jim Qwilleran’s recent accident leaves him with little memory of recent events, and the little he remembers doesn’t seem to add up. So, was it really an accident? Jim (aided by helpful hints from his two Siamese cats) finds only more mystery as he investigates. A clever premise, but the more he investigates, the less plausible the plot becomes.
What a delight! I'm revisiting some of The Cat Who books on audio at the moment and this one was so enjoyable. George Guidall is such a lovely narrator, I couldn't imagine anyone else doing it as well.
Exactly what I needed. A break from the dark and serious with this light, animated mystery. It was an entertaining quick read, very juvenile and perfect for those pre-teens interested in mysteries.
1st read - MM Paperback2nd read - Kindle
must have read this too fastp232: knits some things for the baby.... n w there are pages torn out... aptil thirtieth, she cries all night.
These books will always be some of my favorite "I don't know what I'm in the mood for" reads.
Along with the money comes a mansion that Qwill must live in for five years in order to receive the entire inheritance.
Most of the rest of the story is what happened before the accident.After Qwill moves into his new mansion, he decides to renovate the 2 rooms above the garage into an office.
Qwill has a hard time figuring out what all this means, but knows that Koko has extrasensory perception when it comes to crime.Returning characters include Roger MacGillvray, a history teacher and his wife Sharon; Roger's mother-in-law and Qwill's former neighbor; Mrs. Cobb, his former landlady who he hires to be his cook, housekeeper, and appraiser for his expensive antique furniture; Junior Goodwinter, the young managing editor for the Pickax Picayune; and Arch Riker, who's wife left him and bought Mrs. Cobb's antique shop.
find out who just might want a secret kept badly enough that they're willing to kill.To be honest, when I feel like picking up the series from the start, I classify two "starts": the start of the series (The Cat Who Could Read Backwards) and the "Pickax start" (this book, where the main plot of the series takes place).
In this book, you meet a number of further characters who end up series mainstays, and you get the feeling of just what a powerful family like the Goodwinter clan could get away with in a small, isolated community like Pickax.
What I particularly enjoyed in this one is that it is one of the earlier novels in the series, so you get to come along as Mr. Q and the gang settle into Pickaxe and their new found fortune.
Koko and YumYum seem to have been millionaires stuck in cat bodies from the beginning, but Qwill has a bit of adjusting to do, such as being willing to buy a new bicycle or dressing robe.
He meets several interesting characters in these new realms, who have some surprising friends in low places.
Those secrets come back to haunt several characters...
I won't give away the plot.
I am sure other reviews will.
Both the author's prowse and the fantastic reading by the narrator, make it another must 'listen to', if not must read, novel.
ay I don't want to do a review of the plot, except to say it was NOT obvious in the end.
And I'll not fault the author as Koko is again AMAZINGLY smart, yet subtlly so.
but still amazing such that of course you need to cut the author a break or three.
And if you listen to the audiobooks, the narrator makes the characters become old friends.
