https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480359.Then_Again_Maybe_I_Won_t
Us kids all needed SOMEBODY to give us the lowdown on periods and boners back in the '80s, and Judy Blume tended to be a bit more reliable than that weird kid on the bus. This one's kinda the boy version of "Are You There God...", demystifying for pre-adolescent readers that unfamiliar new stain in their undy-dundypants. Can you imagine being Judy Blume's child? You'd have been the most well-informed kid on the playground. I bet parents never let their kids go to sleepovers at the Blumes, though.
I think I was about ten years old when I read this book (one of a Judy Blume box set); I suspect my mother has yet to recover from my ensuing questions: "Mommy, the book I'm reading has a boy in it who keeps saying that 'it went up'.
Why would he be embarrassed if his ZIPPER went up?
To think, she went from Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing and Super-Fudge to Deenie and Forever!
Ah yes, my introduction to hard-ons and semen. I had no idea what either of them were, and they're not really explained in the book, so I was in the dark for some time. Why does this guy get to masturbate while Margaret simply waits to need a bra and get her period! Unfair! At least Deenie got to get off in the midst of having scholiosis, I suppose...
But at about twelve I think I was reading stuff like Christopher Johns' kid's scifi Tripod Trilogy (expected to be a movie in 2012!) and stuff like Old Yeller and My Side of the Mountain.
Not introspective stuff.My rating is based on the purely hypothetical question of whether I would hand this to a kid.
Yeah, I would -- boy or girl, but probably a bit younger than the ages of those in the book.
By the time kids are going through those changes, the privacy instinct is going to kick in pretty hard and they'll have a tough time asking questions about what they've read.
This was one of the few Judy Blume books I didn't read when I was younger.
I guess it always seemed like a boy's book to me but a friend was going on and on about reading it when she was younger and I felt like I was missing out so I got if from the library.
It's weird to read the book and see how it's no big deal that's he watching the girl next door undress.
It was fun to go back and read a book like this, even if it's kind of warped!
It makes me want to read some of my favorite Judy Blume books!
The boy version of Are You There, God? It's Me, Margaret. I enjoyed this one (though not as much as Margaret). I never read this as a kid, but reading it as an adult makes me appreciate how much of a pioneer Judy Blume really was. She's not afraid to write about anything, no matter how taboo the subject. I'll definitely be sharing this one with my son when he's a bit older. Even though it's a bit dated now, Tony's teenage problems are universal and still very much relevant.
So this week I decided to read Then Again, Maybe I Won't by Judy Blume, who was always one of my favorite authors when I was a kid.This is the story of Tony Miglione, a thirteen year old boy from Jersey City.
But as his parents grow a little too comfortable with their lavish lifestyle, they change, and change isn't always a good thing.I liked this book a lot because Tony always had such a good head on his shoulder throughout the whole novel.
Haha.Overall, it was a great story and one that I would have loved to read when I was growing up.
I read this when I was about 8 or 9--so yeah, it scared the heck out of me.
There I was, a fourth grader, reading about a boy who watched a naked girl through her windows.
I remember, at the time, one of my best friends was also reading this book, and we found it dirty and scandalous.
We giggled, and read the pages like we were about to get yelled at by our teachers.
This book was sure different than the normal 8-9-10 reading level material, which makes it stand out in my mind.
Ignore the horrible cover. This often overlooked book plays second fiddle to Are You There God? but is every bit as poignant and funny. Loved the working class family made good story (which I'd forgotten) and the grandmother/grandson relationship is so touching...bring a hankie, is all I'm saying.
Awesome book for boys. I read it when I was around 12 and I still remember it. Good stuff.
Good old Judy Bloom, being a mother to thousands of children decades after first publication. Essentially this is the boy's version of "Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret". The struggles of blossoming manhood must be something that young men would find to be very scary and terrifying which is what makes books like these good. It's not always easy to turn to your parents as a kid; you're young and this world of puberty is new and embarrassing.Wouldn't be a bad idea to get more young chaps to read this.
Just as good as i remembered. I bought for my son, was feeling too lazy to walk upstairs and get my book, so blew through this in a night. I miss the 70's.
I laughed out loud multiple times.
I know I read this as a kid, but so much is unfamiliar. Judy Blume is a total queen, I am do excited to be revisiting her books ♡
Was so interesting to return to this book and to theorize why it was my fave Judy Blume book as a kid.
Then again, maybe I shouldn’t reread all the Judy Blume books from my youth.

Exhibit C: Phoneys.
I always approach Judy Blume cautiously, because I know as a kid whenever I read her books, something happened that made me feel weird or gross or guilty about something.
Then Again Maybe I Won't has boners, wet dreams,masturbation, embarrassing stuff for a fifth grade reader.
As a grown up reader, what was far more interesting - and cringeworthy - was the commentary on class, and the need for Tony's mother to fit in with all her neighbors (the same thing her son was trying to figure out in junior high).
I loved that this story--told from the POV of the male lead Tony--is just a strong a reflection of the juinior high years as "Are There God---It's Me Margaret."The story is a simple one--a poor Italian kid's family becomes successful and moves from Jersey City to a toney neighborhood and exactly how this changes the entire mores of the each person.
It's about being the new kid in school, figuring out puberty and esuxal urges, about class struggle and even about "the whiting" one's racial background.I really did care for Tony and understand his concerns and confusions as his family adjusted to their new wealth and surroundings in ways that seemed to go against their nature.
I thought some of the issues it brought up (selling out, girls, friendship,and shoplifting) are real things that sometimes get ignored in relation to the age group of young adults.
I think my favorite part of this novel was when Tony's mom says something like "He's a 13-year-old boy; he doesn't have any problems!" Overall, it wasn't my favorite because I wasn't the most comfortable with some of the issues presented, but I don't think I'd ban it from young adults.
I do think that the issues in the book are issues that real young adults face, and this book could be a good starting point for a discussion about those sorts of things.
This book is about a boy whose life just got weirder.
When he makes a new friend it makes his life very different.
My connection is that when new people come it my school they are very different.
There is one person who is weird different.
This person can make others different.
When he came to the new neighborhood adjusting to the people was very different.I would give this book 5 stars because it was a good book.
It was good because it was interesting how Judy Blume uses her real life experiences.
I really would like to read all of her books.
Her books reassure you that you are normal, that the thoughts you have are normal, that the questions you don't feel like you can ask a parent are normal questions, and then she answers those questions.
I highly recommend Then Again, Maybe I Won't, to anyone who is looking for a "real" book about a boy who is growing up, going through puberty, or just simply wants to be reassured that he is normal.
This book is NOT just for boys, I am a girl and I rather enjoyed it...
it actually answered a lot of the questions, wonders, and thoughts I had about boys that I felt was awkward to talk about and not my place to ask.

When his dad's invention makes a lot of money, the family moves to a more upscale neighborhood, and suddenly Tony has got a great view into the window of the older teen girl next door.
Hmm, maybe his binoculars can be used for more than birdwatching!But then, he feels kind of guilty about that, and about some shoplifting, and his stomach is definitely bothering him.
New school, new housekeeper, new feelings about girls, too.
Things just aren't the same anymore.
It's a lot for a kid to handle.The counterpart to Are You There, God?
It's Me, Margaret, and just as full of touchy subjects.

I think I read this back in fourth grade (maybe not the most appropriate book for a 10 year old girl).
Recently reread it for nostalgia's sake.Then Again, Maybe I Won't is a nice read.
A comfy read.
Tony Miglione is a kid whose father makes the family rich.
They move to a nicer neighborhood (at least on the surface).Tony's neighbor is a shoplifting creep (although his sister is really hot), his mother's starting to become a phony bitch (there's no other way of putting it).
This and other problems combine to make Tony a kid with a lot of issues.
I got this book for my son but ending up reading it myself so we could talk about it.
It is a very well written book.
My son is enjoying it a lot too.
I wish Judy Blume would write more boy books.
Her characters are real and believable.
So many children’s and teen books nowadays are fantasy which is fine, but not all children like it.
My son often does not, so it was great to find a book that takes place in the real world that is both deep,humorous and captivating.
I would not presume to blame a book for any of my own foibles, but I do sometimes wonder if reading this particular book when I did had any influence at all on my now-lifelong fondness for voyeurism. Not that I have ever been out in the bushes peeping through windows. But hey, if the neighbor across the courtyard wants to bake cookies topless at 3am, I am going to take it all in. Or then again, maybe I won't.
When Tony’s family moves to a city in New York, his whole life changes with new friends and a mother trying to climb the social ladder. Other than their new home, other things are changing too as he experiences puberty, spies a girl next door, and battles whether or not to keep the secrets of his new best friend. In the class: This book could be used in older classrooms when learning when it is best to tell an adult about something a friend is doing that you know is wrong.
This book was really short and took me an hour to read
