https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64666.An_Anthropologist_on_Mars
Sacks writes up narratives for patients he works with or people he meets with neurological conditions in a way that makes it much easier to step into the perspective of the person and gives them a story.
I personally don't enjoy reading case studies in academia because they do tend to stay detached from the person being talked about and so I really liked Sacks more personal accounts of other people.
At times he can seem to go on and on when writing and it can be tedious but I think the over all material was really interesting and I look forward to reading more of his work.
Obviously, given that it took so long to figure out why he was odd, he isn't that much like Grandin, but the book did give me some important insights.
If you're strongly autistic, you have so little ability to relate to other people that you don't even pick up language skills.
More seriously, he has trouble understanding why things are not permitted by the rules of social interaction, which can get him into trouble.What's fascinating about Temple Grandin is that she's shown how an autistic person can to a large extent overcome their problems, consciously learning behaviors which most people acquire without ever even knowing they are doing it.
He acts as our well-traveled tour guide as we explore the everyday lives and thinking processes of seven people who have made creative use of their cognitive hiccups.Some of the patients featured in this collection of case studies have managed neurological differences from birth; others have had to re-program and mourn grave deficits due to freak events.
The story illustrates for me what I think is Sacks' message: People are not their pathologies, and talents and interests should always be encouraged, even in the face of what we sometimes misdiagnose as deficits.
Throughout all his work Sacks maintains a sense of wonder about the people he treats.
I get the feeling someone calls up Dr Sachs and says "I found a good one for you, over in Montana, twin 70 year old sisters who all talk backwards and live in a house they made out of Herman's Hermits albums" and Dr Sachs is out of the door already, flagging down the nearest taxi, his laptop aquivering.It may be I'm being a trifle unfair here.
This is a fascinating book about seven people with very special, mental conditions.
As a result, Sacks can go into great detail about each of the seven, and explains their histories, their mental conditions, and how they cope with their situations.
But when he is in surgery, or when he flies, his strange behavior is temporarily suspended and acts quite normally.Two of the chapters are about autistic people: Steve is a youth who has an amazing artistic talent.
The last chapter is the amazing story about Temple Grandin, a professor of animal science at Colorado State University and well-known author of books about autism and animal behavior.
This was my first introduction to Sacks, and the fascinating world of neural disorders. The colour-blind artist, the man who kept on painting the same place from memory, the man without long term memory, the autistic professor - I found all the tales absolutely rivetting.
Matching the "7 Wonders of the Ancient World", this book delves into the "7 Wonders of the Human World".
Whether yourself, a family member or a friend is colorblind or autistic, suffer from a cerebral blindness or Tourette's or became one fine day amnesiac and wouldn't be able to recollect anything happening to you till the rest of your life; this book shows how humans are fine-tuned to "adapt" to such circumstances above our expectations.
For some reason, the essays of Oliver Sacks don't rock my world.
But generally, I'd be just as happy if each essay were cut by 50% - most chapters didn't really sustain my interest to the end.Full disclosure: my faint generalized lack of enthusiasm for Dr S may stem from nothing more than guilt by association with Robin Williams.
I have never denied being shallow.If you're in the mood for fun medical case studies (yes, I mean *you*, "House" fans), I'd recommend Berton Roueche's "The Medical Detectives", culled from his "Annals of Medicine" pieces in The New Yorker, over this collection.
Such a fascinating and illuminating book. I've followed Sacks' work for a while so none of these stories were new, but the book is so well written and the analysis is brilliant. I loved the first and last stories the best--the story of color and the last of autism. Sachs probes into the meaning of life, the nature of humanity, friendship, love, art, and intelligence by looking at neurological dysfunction. Such wonderful insights.
An Anthropologist on Mars is one of those books that has been mentioned countless times across my academic career, with lectures and students alike constantly referencing it.
It took me a long time to work around to it, but I can finally say I’ve given it a read.For me, An Anthropologist on Mars was an interesting read.
It covered seven interesting cases, allowing me to better understand the specific cases mentioned rather than simply having the knowledge of someone who had glossed over the cases during studying.
I finished it.I didn't want to finish it.It was an accident, I swear.
Sacks weaves together his subjects' case histories and stories of his visits with excerpts from medical, scientific, historical, psychoanalytic and classic literature.
In a few cases it's clear Sacks provided some useful treatment and advice to the people he writes about - such as the colourblind artist he studies or Greg, "the last hippie" - a man whose brain tumour dramatically affected his memory, personality and sense of time.
Ultimately he is profiting off stories of people who, in some cases, can't fully consent to this or appreciate his words (Greg being the best example).
While Sacks never mentions the parallel, it sounds much like Plato's Parable of the Cave, and gives me new insight into the attitude of the chained prisoners who don't want to be freed or taken from the cave.
The story also made clear how sight is an achievement, not simply a window on the world, that is developed over many months, if not years, and developed at a time in brain development when space for it is provided.
Oliver Sacks died 3 months ago today, and he is and will be sorely missed.
“He feels he has been given “a whole new world”, which the rest of us, distracted by color, are insensitive to. He no longer thinks of color, pines for it, grieves its loss. He has almost come to see his achromatopsia as a strange gift, one that has ushered him into a new state of sensibility and being.” Oliver Sacks grabs my attention and holds it. He moves me and he keeps me enthralled in worlds of special personality and behavioural traits, where ambiguity of “communication”, “perception”, “
“He feels he has been given “a whole new world”, which the rest of us, distracted by color, are insensitive to.
This book is an extremely interesting account of seven odd, mind-bending neurological cases that Sacks, again, approaches with care, sensitivity and personal feel.My only complaint, having also read his excellent Man (who mistook his wife for a hat), is that the Anthropologist felt a little dry by comparison.
But that’s literally a little and only by comparison.A fascinating introduction to the quirks of the human mind by a highly acclaimed scientist and wonderful author.
Definitely recommended (but read the Man as well).
People who had long term blindness, upon having sight restored have no visual memories to support a perception of what they are seeing.
He can sometimes see an eye, the ear, or nose, but cannot see them together as a whole.Also: the blind live in time, not space.
Space is reduced to one's own body when blind.
The position of the body is known not by what objects have been passed, but by how long it has been in motion.
For the blind, people are not there unless they speak.
People are in motion, they are temporal, they come and they go.
While reading The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, I felt as if Sacks wasn't spending enough time with each of his subjects; in this book I felt like he was spending too much time with each one.
The details he gave of their lives were often not the details I wanted to know, and I found myself skimming through some of this.
However, the people profiled have undeniably fascinating neurological conditions: an artist who suffers sudden-onset colorblindness; a man whose vision is restored after decades of blindness; a young man with a brain tumor which destroyed his ability to form new memories.I was looking forward to the chapter on Temple Grandin, a high-functioning autistic woman who is the subject of an excellent HBO movie, but it was mildly disappointing.
After a couple of Sacks’s books that were a little disappointing, this is one that I really enjoyed and was totally absorbed in.
Perhaps because there are only a few (seven) stories, rather than the reams of case notes that Sacks normally uses to illustrate anything, and they are fleshed out enough so that you do actually care about the subjects.
I must be the only person who had never heard of Temple Grandin; that was a fascinating interview, but in fact the other characters grabbed me more.
This Oliver Sachs book depicts the lives of real people whose brains work differently from the norm.
Rather than focusing on the limitations they face, Sachs highlights human adaptability to an alien reality.
The story that really impressed me was the artist involved in a traffic accident that left him unable to see color.
Rather than hampering him, he turned it into an advantage.
Blacks, whites and grays became a new way of seeing and his work richer and more nuanced.
These stories illustrate how reality is a creation of our brains and how it colors (or not) what we think is true.
Sacks is a humanist, holding a quill along with his scalpel, and honestly befriending his patients. It's amazing how little we know about the mind. Rather than looking for a solution to their ailments, the author seems to just get to know them, see the world as they do, and set it out journalistically. The result is captivating and moving.
This is the kind of book you wish you had read with others merely because it has revelations and insights everyone should have and you want everyone to have them with you.Some parts feel like anthropological Notes, others medical, others like the intimate impressions in a poetic diary, and you’re not sure as a reader if you’ve just experienced a new revelation or something that you understood all along. Oliver Sacks is one of a kind. I miss him greatly.
Everything that made The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat so great, distilled down into a few cases where Oliver Sacks can dive deeper. Certainly learned a lot about tourettes, autism and other conditions, but what's really revelatory is how compassionate and empathetic Sacks is toward everyone in this book, and how they seem to change him as he studies them.
Each story is merely a glimpse into the lives of people experiencing extraordinary circumstances -- circumstances borne of what is generally thought of as illness or disease but in reality is often just an alternative neurological process that in many ways is equally as valid as what we consider "normal."Each of these vignettes could have easily been reduced by 75% and conveyed virtually as much information.
Yes it has many drawbacks attached, but having autism is not necessarily the tragedy that many people make it out to be in our culture at large.One discussion I really liked was in Virgil's section, where Sacks argues that human sight, which we simply assume is automatic and innate, is actually learned.
Rather, what makes his writing so remarkable is his tremendous respect for everyone he writes about, even if they sometimes annoy him (as with one man, who obsessively paints his memories of the ruined Sicilian village in which he was born.)But Sacks isn't content to just stay on the surface, to just write out case histories of these people.
I suppose it makes sense that a book about brains would be so thought-provoking, not just because, hey, it's about brains, but because our brains are the centers of our existence, the way we perceive everything that is going on within and without.
Oliver sacks provides entertaining and informative stories of people living with various brain abnormalities.
In this book, sacks focused on abnormalities that often compelled the individual to record their environment in extreme ways.
For example, Sacks suggest maybe we are all hardwired for recording history, since our only tools for millions of years were our brains and voices, and we handed down an oral history of human existence, throughout the generations.
Even when Grandin herself views her brain as defective, it is clear Sacks is more interested in understanding the way her brain works than he is in judging if it's defective or not.
I love him so much; time to start a new Sacks book.
Actually, I really enjoyed reading about Stephen Wiltshire, as well, and I wish Sacks had confined that study to just him.
In fact, I highly recommend googling Stephen Wiltshire, and catching a glimpse of him and his work on the documentary tv show Extraordinary People.
The first few case studies really opened up some new ideas for me, ideas that broaden my understanding of art and memory, and it's pairing well with my other current read, Memory Wall: Storiesas the title story's main character struggles with memory in interesting ways.
In one case study, an artist, after being in a car accident, obtained incredibly sharp vision--the artist said he could see a worm wriggling a block away--but could now only see in black and white.Another artist, after having an feverish illness, became obsessed with painting his hometown--from memory, yet accurately.
Another savant had read Gibbon's _Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire_ in a single reading and imprinted it in memory.
"The Man Who Mistook his Wife for a Hat" probably taught me more about the way our brains work than all of the psychology classes I took in school - if for no other reason than the fact that the neurology is always seen through Sacks' humanistic lens.
"Anthropologist" is another collection of case studies - much longer than their counterparts in "Man", since the entire books consists of only seven cases.
Nonetheless, the book provides amazing insight into subjects such as memory, vision, autism, and Tourette's, and is well worth a read.
O que é maravilhoso em Oliver Sacks é que ele fala de pessoas.
Sim, pessoas com "doenças", doenças neurológicas que, sem dúvida, passamos a conhecer com enorme profundidade e detalhe, mas sempre através da presença da doença numa pessoa.
Nota-se que ele se apaixona pelos seus casos, não só por cada pessoa no caso, mas também pelas características do caso.
Para além disso, Sacks escreve muito bem, com um cunho pessoal forte, que se aproxima da literatura sem se esquecer de que é um relato médico-científico.
E depois há toda a parafernália de situações surpreendentes e impossíveis de "imaginar", como a possibilidade de ser-se cego sem disso se dar conta.
An extremely empathetic account of people afflicted with unusual neurological disorders - which offers a glimpse of how the brain works.
Though Mr. Sacks stated aim is to analyse the functioning of the brain, he seems to be driven by the human stories behind the cases.
So he travels long distances to be with the famous artist who can no longer see color, the idiot savant who compulsively draws buildings in intricate detail, the blind person, whose eyes are restored, but sight stubbornly refuses to return, the autistic lady with a strange empathy for animals ready for slaughter - and the tragic story of the painter who cannot stop painting the byways of his childhood.An engrossing and illuminating read...
استغربت من اسم الكتاب الغريب، عالِم انثربولوجيا على المريخ ... ستكتشف ان ورائه قصة طريفة.الكتاب يحوي عدة قصص لمرضى قابلهم الدكتور اوليفر ساكس وكتب قصصهم باسلوبه الادبي المشوق وبنفس الوقت الزاخر بالمعلومات.القصة الاخيرة لمريضة بالتوحّدة اسمها تمبل جراندين، بالرغم من مرضها (او بالاحرى بسببه) اخذت الدكتوراة في السلوك الحيواني واصبحت اهم مصممة لدور ذبح ابقار في العالم؛ دور ذبح فيها رحمة ومراعاة لمشاعر الحيوانات.تستطيع تمبل فهم الحيوانات افضل من فهمها للبشر، وتعزو سبب ذلك الى تعقيد ادوات التواصل البشرية المبني على المنطق والتحليل والرمزية.اترككم مع كلمتها في تيد:https://youtu.be/fn_9f5x0f1Q
