https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232937.The_Time_of_the_Doves
A novel set in Barcelona during the Spanish Civil War and translated from the Catalan.
Originally published in 1962, it is and it isn’t “another Spanish Civil War novel.” There is no fighting or scenes from the front.
We only hear of the war from the perspective of a woman whose husband is fighting with the Republicans while she slaves at home and as a maid and cleaning lady trying to feed herself and her two children.
The Spanish Civil War comes along and of course her husband is a casualty.
There's a reason why Gabriel Garcia Marquez learned Catalan just read to this novel. He called it "the most beautiful novel published in Spain since the Civil War." Great translation by poet David Rosenthal that captures the gorgeously off-handed rhythms and glowing repetitions of Rodereda's prose. Avoid the newer version called "In Diamond Plaza."
Yes, I know, not the best place/activity for an invalid, but I (not contagious, mind you) already had one and one too many of those days two yesters ago where no writing and a mere twelve pages of reading left me with the feeling of a small bone rotting away from lack of use.
There's losing and winning for this small scale woman and her small scale children, and what she knows of the war is drawn from the availability of work, of food, of hydrochloric acid.
Entrambi i genitori hanno molto accudito il ragazzo e fatto tutto il possibile perché ricevesse sempre tutti gli stimoli e gli spunti che il suo cervello poteva essere in grado, anche solo per un poco, di assorbire.
Ecco, la protagonista di questo racconto non è autistica ma il suo essere sempliciotta rasenta effettivamente la stupidità; la sua incertezza nel trovare le parole adatte ad esprimere i propri sentimenti, anzi diciamo pure la sua inadeguatezza e insufficienza nel mettere a fuoco sentimenti e sensazioni umane, tutto questo insieme di carenze la rendono quanto di più simile vi possa essere alla voce della verità.
But the success of a collection of short stories (Vint-i-dos contes, 1958) encouraged her to write and publish La plaça del diamant (available in English translation under the title The Time of the Doves) in 1962, a popular and critical success translated meanwhile into thirty languages and taught in Catalonia's schools.Unsurprisingly, La plaça del diamant is set during the Civil War but the means by which Rodoreda chose to approach the Spanish trauma is quite unexpected.
3.5 starsLacking a mother to advise her, Natalia, whose ideas of romance and beauty seem to be symbolised by the colour white, which she loves to wear, is picked up by a douchecanoe so selfish and arrogant he takes her name from her and proceeds to arrange her life and possessions at his service.
Natalia is living in hell, but it seems there is a hell below this one because along comes the civil war and a famine that sucks the heart and spirit and flesh from the shell of the bodyWe learn all of this from Natalia's stream of consciousness, creating a special sense of melancholy since she has no interlocutor to share her thoughts.
Kitabın ilk bölümü roman kahramanı Natalia’nın sonradan kocası olacak Quimet ile tanışmasını, evliliklerini ve yaşamlarını anlatıyor.
Bu bölümde hikaye yer yer büyük boşluklar barındırıyor, sanki yazarın acelesi varmışcasına nefes nefese yazılmış kıs kısa cümlelelerle tatsız bir anlatım var.
İkinci bölüm ise İspanya İç Savaşı sırasındaki Barselona’yı anlatıyor, kocası ve çevresinin savaşta yaptıklarını ve savaşın yıkıcılığını resmediyor.
Bu bölüm ilk bölümden tamamen farklı, kısa olmalarına rağmen derinlikli ve duyarlıklı cümleler, güzel tanımlamalar ve sürükleyici bir okuma ile kitabın sonuna ulaşılıyor.
Beş yıldızlık bir bölüm bu.
Sonunda yazarın bir “sonsöz” bölümü var ki neden buna gerek dıymuş anlamadım.
You might say ‘no right thinking person would have given him the benefit of the doubt in those circumstances’, and yet I have heard hundreds of similar anecdotes and stories, often with unpleasant outcomes.All of which is to say that as I was reading Mercè Rodoreda’s La plaça del diamant [or The Time of the Doves in the best English translation] I was struck by how depressingly familiar, how predictable, the trajectory of Natalia’s and Quimet’s relationship is.
There is a strange beauty in all of it.Natalia, whose mother died when she was young and whose father barely acknowledged her existence, meets Quimet during a dance in one of the town squares of Barcelona.
Natalia goes to work as a cleaning woman, the Spanish Civil War begins, and eventually she loses her husband, her job, and barely survives with those kids, all nearly starving to death.Finally rescue, safety, and even love come back into her life but she cannot recover from the trauma or believe in love anymore.
I was sure she was doomed but there was beauty everywhere in the writing.By the end, another one of my mother's lessons finally made sense to me.
There is a very good Translator's Note prefacing this edition, written in 1980.
Catalans were on the losing side in the Spanish Civil War, and immediately afterwards were forbidden to speak their language outside the home.This is a relatively short novel, but I took more time with it than the page length would normally warrant.
At the very least there are sections with numerous run on sentences.
Sometimes she was calm, others upset and nervous, and I didn't perceive the changes as quickly as I might have.Again referencing the Translator's Note: In a sense, The Time of the Doves is the story of most Spaniards during the 1930s and 1940s.
Amb moments antològics com l'inicial ball a la plaça del Diamant, la lluita contra els coloms, el casament de la Rita o el climàtic final, es tracta d'una novel·la plena de sensibilitat que emociona fins al moll de l'os gràcies al talent narratiu d'una escriptora que, com a tècnica narrativa, és capaç de camuflar el seu propi llenguatge sota el d'un personatge ja esdevingut emblemàtic.
A través de les limitacions d'aquest llenguatge, la Natàlia-Colometa expressa la seva visió dels fets i reflecteix com va evolucionant a mesura que canvien les circumstàncies, contant la seva pròpia història que, malgrat ser dura i sense contemplacions, no deixa de ser poètica en les imatges aparentment naïfs que transmet la protagonista i que li serveixen per interpretar i transmetre uns fets que no sempre acaba de copsar.
Natalia sabotages her husband's pigeons in silent protest against the patriarchy, while Catalans revolt against the conquering Nationalists during the Spanish Civil War.
"All feather and bones." Executions have replaced wedding celebrations in Diamond Square.(view spoiler)[Suffering from PTSD and delayed grief, Natalia despairs and plots suicide and the mercy-killing of her children-- like the pigeon eggs that she sabotaged as an act of resistance against her selfish and oppressive husband before the war.
While Natalia is representative of Catalan identity, she also becomes a heroine for all who survive defeat to find new life in the little things.

And after the war her life would be very different.Natalia said little about her feelings, preferring to speak of what she was doing and what was happening in her world.
Her words had such intensity, and she described everything wonderfully well: the home she made for her family; the streets of her home quarter; her employer's grand home; the shelves full of different goods in the grocers shop; Natalia noticed every detail.In Diamond Square is simply one woman's life.

Eine junge Frau lässt sich in den 30er Jahren auf eine Ehe mit einem Mann ein, der sich als Taugenichts herausstellt.
Sie bekommen zwei Kinder, die Frau muss stets zurückstecken, während der Mann seinen Launen und Träumereien frönt.
Eine ebensolche Laune scheint seine Kriegsbegeisterung zu sein, schließlich fällt er im Krieg und die Frau bleibt mit den Kindern zurück.
Auch als ihr Leben irgendwann eine Wendung nimmt, verlässt die Frau niemals eine abgrundtiefe Trauer und Müdigkeit.Ich kam auf den Roman als ich nach Geschichten suchte, die in Barcelona spielen.
gücünü kadın kahramanından alan bir roman. basit, sıradan hayatının gereksiz denebilecek ayrıntılarına hakim ama hayatını değiştiren/dönüştüren büyük olaylar karşısında bir ölçüde duyarsız ya da kararsız/suskun bir karakteri sahici kılmayı başarabiliyor katalan yazar. romanın yapısını bu karakter üzerinden kuruyor ve meselesini neredeyse kahramanın anlatmadıkları üzerinden anlatabiliyor. savaş ve aşk. güvercinler gittiğinde, savaşı anlatmayan bir savaş romanı, aşkı anlatmayan bir aşk romanı bu anlamda.
I'm a little speechless, a little breathless. The Time of the Doves is one of the most beautiful things I've encountered in a long time. I'm overwhelmed; I need a moment. I don't know. Read this book.
Romanas taip sužavėjęs Gabriel Garcia Marquez, kad norėdamas perskaityti kūrinį originalo kalba išmoko katalonietiškai.
Çok övülmüştü, o kadar beğenmedim. Bir kadının gözünden çaresizliği, "o akışına bırakma" olayını çok iyi anlatıyor. Başkahramanın anlatısı da ona çizilen role uygun: büyük büyük laflar, muazzam dil kullanımı vs yani kulak, göz tırmalayan bir şey yok. Bu haliyle 3.5/5Sonra yazarın sonsözünü okuyorsunuz, o nasıl bir kendini beğenmişlik! Yazarın kendisi açıklamaya ihtiyaç duyuyorsa o edebi referanslar olmamıştır arkadaş. Kahramanını Madam Bovary ve Anna KArenina ile kıyaslamasına da bayağı güldüğümü belirtmeliyim.Kısacası zevk alacağınız, pişman olmayacağınız bir okuma olabileceğini söyleyebilirim. Ancak beklentilerinizi azıcık düşük tutmanız kaydıyla.
Дали заради неспособността на тази жена да изрази с думи всичко силно, дали заради времената, в които никой много-много не слуша една жена от какво има да се оплаче или какво й носи щастие… Дори начинът, по който често наричаше децата си „момчето“, „дъщерята“, особено в началото, сякаш говореше за една външна „кора“ на чувствата.Един от най-силните моменти за мен беше, когато бакалинът я настигна на улицата и я върна в магазина (разбира се и когато си изкрещя болката си накрая).

This is the most unusual and powerful book I've read in a long time.
Rodereda creates the character of Natalia in a quirky stream of consciousness voice.
The voice is painfully naive to begin with and then matures over the course of the book as Natalia experiences the Spanish Civil War. This book has an early feminist feeling that reminds me of Jean Rhys's work.
Rodereda was writing in Catalan, a language that was forbidden in Spain at the time.
From a position of exile in France, her descriptions of the Gracia district of Barcelona are full of remarkable remembered detail.
Acho que o que mais salta aos olhos na escrita de Rodoreda especificamente neste livro é como a narrativa começa leve e divertida com o uso da linguagem e simbolismo refletindo isso, para se tornar soturna e pesada na mesma proporção. A questão dos pombos é o que mais brilha no simbolismo poético, desde o apelido da narradora conseguido num momento mais feliz de sua vida até a guerra caótica que trava com os pombos num microespaço da Guerra Civil Espanhola. Um belo livro realmente.
Stil knjige je malo neobičan, rečenice su kratke, događaji bez puno zadržavanja i opisa, čak malo i šokira kada se dogodi nešto loše, a pripovjedačica to opiše u par kratkih rečenica.
Treba se naviknuti, shvatit zašto je to tako.
Te kratke rečenice te nerviraju, a nepravda i poteškoće pripovjedačice koje ona nekako "olako" prođe i ne pridaje im važnost izgledaju nemoguće- zašto se ne bori?
zašto pušta da joj se to događa?
Njezin odnos s mužom, odnosi koji su joj nametnuti u tim nekim tradicionalnim ulogama koje je žena imala (ima i danas?), odnos žena međusobno (težak porod za koji okrivljuju majku...)- kako tako lako prolazi kroz to.
ישנם ספרים שמעבר להיותם כתובים טוב, מעניינים או יפים, נוטים להזכר בקריאתם כבחוויה נעימה. אמנם רק סיימתי לקרוא וטרם חלף ביני לבין הסיפור אותו שטפון זמן שרק כשניצבים על גדתו ניתן לקבוע אילו פסגות לא נכנעו לכוח שחיקתו, אך אם אסתכן בנבואה הרי שאחזה שזכרון קריאת הספר הזה יהיה מענג למדי.יש משהו נהדר בשפתו הפשוטה והסימבולית, האומרת כה מעט ומצליחה לבטא כה הרבה. גם התרגום עשיר וכנראה מצויין.כשיצא לאור לפני כעשר שנים קראתי הרבה ביקורות ששיבחו אותו. הצדק היה עימן.מומלץ.
Para jardín el que me ha puesto esta mujer dentro. Me ha dado pena que acabase de lo que me estaba gustando su forma de escribir bonito (que tiene mérito que con ella sea bonito hasta describir una rata muerta).
Pot Rodoreda ser més genial?????
“CÂND AUZEAM CÂTEODATĂ: omu-ăsta-i de plută, nu ştiam ce vrea să zică.
Pentru mine, pluta era un dop.
Şi pluta scârţâia.
Şi-n fine-am inţeles ce-nseamnă când se zice că omu-ăsta-i de plută ..., fiindcă, de plută, eram eu.
Nu fiindc-aş fi fost de plută, ci fiindcă a trebuit să mă fac de plută.
A trebuit să mă fac de plută ca să pot s-o duc înainte, fiindcă dacă-n loc să fiu de plută şi cu inima sloi, aş fi fost ca-nainte, din carne, care, dac-o ciupeşti, doare, n-aş fi putut să trec peste-o punte aşa-naltă şi strâmtă şi lungă.”
“I la senyora Enriqueta mhavia dit que teníem moltes vides, les unes entreteixides amb les altres, però que una mort o un casament, de vegades, no sempre, les separava, i la vida de debò, lliure de tota mena de fils de vida petita que lhavien lligada, podía viure com hauria hagut de viure sempre si les vides petites i dolentes lhaguessin deixada sola”.¿Qué puedo decir de la "Plaça del Diamant"? Poco. Que es rotunda, categóricamente excepcional. Que es una novela sobre la vida y el paso del tiemp
“I la senyora Enriqueta m´havia dit que teníem moltes vides, les unes entreteixides amb les altres, però que una mort o un casament, de vegades, no sempre, les separava, i la vida de debò, lliure de tota mena de fils de vida petita que l´havien lligada, podía viure com hauria hagut de viure sempre si les vides petites i dolentes l´haguessin deixada sola”.¿Qué puedo decir de la "Plaça del Diamant"?
Que es una novela sobre la vida y el paso del tiempo donde está todo y no sobra nada.
Leer "La plaça del Diamant" es detenerse a mirar atrás con la Colometa.
