https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67920.Sybil
When I was reading the sections describing what she had done to her daughter, I was literally beating my head with the book and saying "That's so fucked up!" out loud.
The more I got to know about Sybil and the strange ways her unconscious had devised to help her cope with her abusive childhood, the more I felt like I was losing my own mind.
These are the kind of things I found myself thinking about on the bus, or walking down the street, while reading this book.
I would recommend this book to anybody who is interested in the mysteries of the human mind.
A nasty piece of work. What's worse is it's a fraud. "Sibyl's" doctor manipulated her with drug dependency and emotional blackmail into agreeing with the doctor's pet theories about multiple personalities, which had catastrophic effects on psychology for decades.It's like reading a transcript of a witch trial confession.This book does a serious disservice to abuse victims.
I had to read this in high school for my Psychology class. I'd never heard of Sybil or multiple personalities. I was so skeptical about all of it that when I read the book I had a hard time stopping with the class. We weren't allowed to read ahead and I was chomping at the bit to read the ending. Great book and side note... the movie is just as good. Sally Field was superb in it.
For all of you about to read this book, thinking it's a true story, please read the following:This book was the brainchild of three women: Cornelia Wilbur, Shirley Mason, and Flora Schreiber.
Extensive research has been done on Sybil's case, and it has been proven that the entire book was fictious.Shirley developed all of her "personalities" after working with Dr. Wilbur.
Flora was doubting SHirley's story, and to make her stay with the project, Shirley gave her a journal from 1941, with proof that she had been switching personalities before meeting Connie.
It's the true story, of the three womens lives, and is factual and much more interesting.
کتاب «سی بل» در سال 1974 میلادی منتشر شد؛ که در آن شرح نحوه ی تشخیص یک مورد از حالت چند شخصیتی به صورت مشروح در مورد خانمی با نام مستعار «سی بل میلا» شرح داده شده است.
در حدود شش سال پس از انتشار کتاب، موضوع حقانیت و علمی بودنِ تشخیص بیماران چند شخصیتی، که مورد قبول و تائید محافل پزشکی قرار گرفته بود، با عنوان اختلال چند شخصیتی، در کتاب تشخیص بیماریهای روانی چاپ شد.
I probably would have given it 4 stars, but I made the mistake of looking up details about this woman online prior to finishing the book which really changed my feelings about the actual author and doctor involved.
Apparently it's not really clear if this woman actually had multiple personalities.
The author supposedly stated that the publisher wanted a book about a multiple personality, so they had to write it that way.
It's even in the book that Sybil's main doctor introduces her to the author, and it seems like they wanted to write a book about Sybil before they even consulted her.
I frequently get questions from other librarians that go something like "why do teens like to read that junk?" Well, it wasn't that long ago that adults all over the country were caught up in Sybil, a book that is the grandfather of the tragic childhood memoir.When Sybil came to Dr. Wilbur for analysis, there wasn't a lot of material on multiple personalities (now called dissociative identity disorder).
Part of the way through the process of analysis, the doctor invited a writer to come and document the case since it was both rare and scarcely written about in the literature.
The first chapter was the immature child who tried too hard for affection (using stupid, nonsensical, flowery phrases in a medical true story, pseudo or not, doesn't endear the reading public), but from the second chapter on (where Schreiber begins to detail Sybil's experience with Dr Wilbur from the beginning) we've been reading from a much more assured and confident writer.The idea that you could experience an emotional moment at the funeral of a loved one, and then wake up at school two years later is terrifying.
I liked the book fine - although I struggled with the narrative.
At about half the book I made the mistake of asking a professor about it and he told me that the account of the book was not true.
This kind of brought the second half down a notch.
I did follow this one up with When Rabbit Howls (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...), however, noting that Truddi Chas was up to 92 personalities from Sybil's 16, I had a nagging feeling that the would either topped by someone with a few hundred - or be discredited at some point...

The book describes Sybil, a woman who has survived mind-bogglingly horrific physical and sexual abuse by her allegedly schizophrenic mother (disturbingly dated notions of schizophrenia and the doctor's presumed ability to diagnose an unmet person are just the tip of the iceberg here), including episodes as a six-month-old infant and two-and-a-half-year-old toddler recounted by the author in detail.
Sybil has learned to cope with her abuse by dissociating and having other personalities, sixteen in total, overtake her body.Reading between the lines, there are glaring breaches of boundaries by Sybil's doctor which, if acknowledged at all by the author, are framed positively.
با خواندن این کتاب بیشتر به تاثیر سلامت روان پدر و مادر بر روح و روان فرزند پی بردم. و واقعابه نظرم خیلی جالب اومد یه فردی 17 شخصیت داشته باشه و بتونه زندگی کنه. شکنجه هایی که بر سی بل اعمال میشد،باعث شد از خودم سوال بپرسم واقعا همچنین مادرهایی هم وجود دارند؟ در حقیقت این تعدد شخصیت ناشی از جنون مادر سی بل بود
واقعا دوستش داشتم!اين كتاب رو ٦سال پيش زمانى دانشجو بودم يكى از استاد هاى خوبم بهم معرفى كرد ولى تاكنون فرصت نكرده بودم تهيه كنم و بخونم.داستان در مورد دختريه كه از اختلال تعدد شخصيت رنج ميبره و شخصيت اصلى از وجود سايرِ شخصيت ها بي اطلاع هستش.
اين اختلال ريشه درتجارب دوران كودكيش و از رفتار و شكنجه هاى مادرش سرچشمه ميگيره.همچنين نقش وراثت هم در بروز اين بيمارى بي تاثير نيست.
از اونجايي كه هم در خانواده ى مادر و هم در خاندان پدريش نشانه هايى از اين اختلال وجود داشته.
اين كتاب روند شناخت بيمارى "سي بل "و درمان آن هستش.
This book is a true story, but it reads like a science-fiction at times just because it is so so sad and horrible.If this book were better written and a little quicker paced I think it could easily become one of my favourites.
Sybil was a part of a very restrictive Fundamentalist faith and the doctor lowered herself to Bible bashing and arguing the finer points of religion (GOD didnt say to rest on the Sabbath, MEN/prophets did) when I feel it was more than a little inappropriate.
I read this in my freshman year of college, and it gave me nightmares, and really made me think I was going crazy.
I saw the movie first in psychology class in high school.
Then, when I took psychology in college, this book was brought up, and I was intrigued.
I have heard some say this isn't a true story, but even if it isn't, it is still frightening.
If you are looking for an interesting, can be scary to some, just....crazy story, this might just be the book for you.
This is such a classic. One of the best piece of literature, or one can also say one of the finest example one could find about the beauty, the complexity and the vulnerability of a human mind and heart, and how far we can go to protect ourselves. A must, must read so as to understand humans better.
Rearing a family is hard work and kids never know what their parents will be like.
Kids never know.Hattie Dorset may be one of the extremes in society, but to some extent everyone abuses their kids, in benign ways like pushing them for those endless classes, or parents who are not even aware that their kids exist, remember Matilda.
The resilient do their best and stick on, the less resilient fall down a couple of times.But everyone tries to get back on track and that is extremely courageous.I have such tremendous respect for people trying to get back on track.Coming back to Sybil, Hattie Dorset was not at all a mother as we define a Mother, she was an abusive person.She abused Sybil in every possible way, sexually, physically, mentally and ways we can never ever comprehend.
I read this book in the mid 70s and I reread it a few times throughout the next decade or so. It tells a heartbreaking, fascinating and absorbing story of a woman with multiple personality disorder, which is a dissociative disorder. I’ve heard over the years that the story is more fiction than non-fiction, but I still like the book just as much as I did when I believed it was 100% true. A really sobering look at how childhood trauma can seriously affect one’s mental health. Extremely disturbing passages about child abuse.
I noticed that someone mentioned that this book is more fiction than fact and also another about how unbelievable the story was.During the 1970's I worked at an adult home where we had a female patient who held a doctorate degree.
The other twenty days she was a different character from the book "Anne Frank." She also mimicked the activities of guards that may of happened when they busted the house in which Anne lived.On about the twentieth day I would be able to talk to the doctors real ego.
I was always amazed and saddened to find someone else inside the next day.
While really unsettling,  Sybil  allowed me to realise the importance of the psychology of characters in one's writing. An interesting read of a somewhat controversial diagnosis (multiple personality/dissociative identity),  Sybil  is a must read for anyone interested in psychology. How each personality is constructed reveals intimate details on how to create fictional characters or how to borrow from real people into characters of one's own.
I don't remember WHEN I read this, I only remember that I did and that it scared the living daylights out of me. I was W A Y to young to be reading this without someone to talk to about it afterwards.
I have read this book 50 some odd times. Regardless of truth or not truth it stands as a very good and accurate description of what it's like living with MPD/DID.
It's amazing that despite its exposure as a fraud (e.g. Sybil Exposed by Debbie Nathan) the book is still being marketed, read, and believed.What is particularly sad is that all "Sybil's" psychological problems were easily avoidable.
Debbie Nathan, while researching for her book, visited the family doctor that treated "Sybil" as a child.
She had suffered from Pernicious anemia, as had her mother, and the GP had successfully kept "Sybil" in her happy family home symptom free with liver extract.
When "Sybil" left the family home to study she stopped the liver extract and over the next year it seems that her psychological symptoms returned.
It was brought back to my mind after reading The Bird's Nest by Shirley Jackson.This story of a woman with sixteen personalities, purportedly based on real life, hooked me at the time of reading it.
Now I hear that it has been challenged (like so many similar books), but that does not take away from its fascination.The book is well-written, even though the scenes of child abuse (by Sybil's schizophrenic mother) are graphic and disturbing.
However, it lost a bit of steam towards the end, as there is no clear description of Sybil's healing process.Split personality became all the rage in India, after the movies Manichitrathazhu and Anniyan became blockbusters.
Sybil is a perfectly normal woman in almost every way - except that she isn't just Sybil. She's also several other people. This true story of a person struggling with dissociative identity disorder (originally called multiple personality disorder) is both terrifying and powerful.
This story was fascinating to read. And frightening. And too close to home. It stirred up lots of darkness in me, and helped me get rid of some. That's what good books do.
A very fascinating book about a woman with Multiple Personality Disorder. Her journey to find out what was happening, understand it, and integrate.
I'd long heard of this book from my mother, who'd read it when it was more new in the literary world.
All these traumas, betrayals, and fears both real and not begin to crack Sybil into shards emotionally and thus her personalities are born.
Each one even goes so far as to have their own physical appearance, though only in their eyes.Reading through I found myself really considering each personality their own person and not Sybil just speaking and acting differently.
It's sad she took so long to begin her life proper, but considering the timeframe it's no surprise.
currently, i hate this book. i have read many, many horror stories of abuse...but sybil's mother, clearly mentally ill and forever to be undiagnosed, is pathetic and sad and horrific. i don't know if i'll finish this....so far it makes me want to vomit. seen the movie with sally field...that's much more tolerable..the mother in that film is nothing like what is portrayed in the book.
Sybil experienced a lot of blank moments in her life – time lapses where she didn’t know where she had been or what she had been doing.
Each of these selves, and there were sixteen, had to undergo therapy and treatment and analysis under Dr. Wilbur’s care, before they could be integrated into the main “Sybil.” It took several years to accomplish this feat, during which, Sybil had to face her fears and reclaim her emotions and memories as her own.
It was horrifying what Sybil went through, and amazing that she was able to seek help, find it, and accept it.
