https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280990.Death_at_the_Bar
They are in the habit of playing darts, but on this occasion an experiment takes the place of the usual game – a fatal experiment which calls for investigation.A distinguished painter, a celebrated actor, a woman graduate, a plump lady from County Clare, and a Devonshire farmer all play their parts in the unravelling of the problem…MY THOUGHTS: I am embarrassed to admit that this is the first book I have read by New Zealand author Ngaio Marsh, and I was quite surprised to find it set in South Devon rather than in New Zealand.
Compared to Clutch of Constables, the other title I read, this one has more the ordinary format (disliked chap gets killed, police called in, investigates, denouement), and while I liked the different format in Constables, this one for me was the more interesting read.
A mystery is thus at hand, and when the local police can’t quite handle the matter, Alleyn and with him, Fox are called in.Since I read the other Marsh book so close to this one, I can’t help comparing the two, and this one as I said stood out as the better one for me on more than one count.
The ninth Roderick Alleyn mystery sees three friends meet up for a holiday in Devon.
The three men spent last year staying at the Plume of Feathers, whose landlord is the friendly Abel Pomeroy; aided by his son, Will, who runs, ‘The Left Group,’ a political group with more members than you would expect in the small fishing village of Ottercombe.
Watchman is looking forward to the holiday and to seeing the divine, Decima Moore again.
Overall, I am enjoying this series very much and look forward to reading on.
Alleyn just doesn’t have the same depth of characterisation as Wimsey, and while the character of Troy is quite fun, she doesn’t seem to have come into it as much as Harriet.
It takes some time to build up a set of characters to theorise about first (though I hope they’re not intended to be likeable as such, because most of them are not), which at least adds a bit of interest; I do like the way crime/mystery stories can be used as a character study.
They’re just too dry, and Alleyn isn’t enough of a person to me.Originally posted here.
While I knew that I had read this entry in the Inspector Alleyn series, as I have read all the Marsh books on my shelves at some point in the past 35 years, when I saw the audiobook on Hoopla & read the blurb it didn't sound familiar.
Once I started listening though, it came back to me.
Ironically, I spent about 2/3 of my time listening to this mystery sure I knew who the murderer was only to find it was someone else!
Wanda McCaddon does an excellent narration and this Golden Age mystery stands up to the test of time well imo.
And as mentioned I thoroughly enjoyed Saxon as the reader.But down to cases: Attorney, Luke Watchman is headed to Devon and the Plume of Feathers pub for an annual holiday with his cousin Sebastian Parish and his friend Noman Cubitt.
Watchman tries to engage him in conversation, but it is clear that Legge does not want to be sociable.During the course of the evening it is revealed that Legge is a "masterpiece" with the darts and can do all sorts of tricks with the darts and board--from playing Round the Clock (hitting point sections in order) to a circus-type move where he can outline a person's hand with darts.
Alleyn investigates a murder at the Plume of Feathers, a Devon pub. The murder happens during a game of darts, and all those in the bar come under suspicion. Alleyn and Fox arrive from Scotland Yard to quiz the suspects and follow up their stories.Although I liked the country pub setting, this mystery took an age to get going and I never really cared who did it. The plot is clever and skilfully put together, and the Alleyn and Fox relationship continues to work well. However, this didn't really appeal to me and I didn't find it at all memorable.
In Death at the Bar by Ngaio Marsh, three longtime friends join together to visit their annual vacation spot in Ottocomb in Devon, where they gather at the Plume of Feathers Pub. All three friends are famous in their own right, with Luke Watchman an elite barrister, Sebastian Darrow a famous actor, and Norman Cubit a top painter.
One local man, Bob Legge, has a reputation for being a genius with darts and convinces Luke, who has been sniping at Legge in underhanded hints about some knowledge of a potential criminal background, to let him throw darts between each finger spread out against the dartboard.
one of the most enjoyable Inspector Alleyn stories I have read so far.
A distinguished barrister dies, apparently accidentally, in a pub in Devon, where he is on holiday.
But it emerges that the death may not have been accidental after all, so naturally the local constabulary calls in Scotland Yard.
there are some very interesting characters,and it is not too easy to guess how the murder was done, and by whom.
THe romance also is more interesting than in most of the Inspector Alleyn books, less predictable.
This edition also includes a whimsical early short story by Marsh,which is quite fun.
Having said that, once Alleyn and the faithful Fox turn up, the action really starts and this becomes an engaging and worthwhile read, perfect for a couple of hours in the garden on a sunny day.Barrister Luke Watchman is a far from attractive character and probably deserves to be bumped off whilst spending a rural idyll with his cousin (another annoying theatrical type beloved of the equally theatrical Marsh) and the usual array of types.
A mix of aristos and champagne socialists, it takes Alleyn less than two days to solve what is apparently a fiendishly difficult crime and one that has evidently baffled the local plod.
During a dark and stormy night (I've always wanted to type that), a well-known barrister's hand is punctured by a dart during a demonstration in the private taproom of the pub in a small village in Cornwall. Within minutes, he is dead. Inspector Roderick Alleyn is called in to sort through the plentiful suspects--most of whom seem to have a motive--sift through the clues, and discover what happened. An enjoyable mystery with plenty of twists, turns, and red herrings.
I wish there were a detective who gets it totally wrong, admits his/her mistake, and muddled through, rather than being mostly perfect. This one was twisty and unpleasant and I’m not sure I’m very fond of Alleyn at the moment.
As I mentioned in my review of the audio novel, Marsh managed to get me to focus on the same red herring both when I first read it and when I listened--but it hadn't been long enough this time for her to pull that trick again.But down to cases: Attorney, Luke Watchman is headed to Devon and the Plume of Feathers pub for an annual holiday with his cousin Sebastian Parish and his friend Noman Cubitt.
Watchman doubts his skill--challenging him to repeat exactly a set of dart moves from the previous evening (and losing money on the bet) and then a game of Round the Clock, but shying away from presenting his hand for the circus trick.
there's a lot of talk about class and politics in this book, which takes it a bit away from what you'd usually expect from a cozy. there's also quite a bit of dense dialogue and descriptions of minute details. I like the level of detail because it's so immersive, and I like the setting (a different time and place, for me).
Left off after couple of chapters. Might revisit in time
Chapter VI - Inquest The Illington Coroner was James Mordant, Esq., M.D. He was sixty-seven years old and these years sat heavily upon him, for he suffered from dyspepsia.
He had at one time specialized in bacteriology and it was said of him that he saw human beings as mere playgrounds for brawling micrococci.
It was also said that when Dr. Mordant presided over an inquest, the absence in court of the corpse was not felt.
He was a capable man...The coroner summed up at considerable length and with commendable simplicity.
And this comparison is worthwhile because Ms Marsh, in her book introductions, loves to express disdain at the fact that Dorothy L Sayers made the mistake of falling in love with her Wimsey whereas Ngaio Marsh has managed to keep her head and just stay friends with her Alleyn.
And that's not a bad thing at all!I've read 9 books and 6 short stories so far featuring these characters, and while I like them a lot, I have a sneaking suspicion that if the setting was not what is my absolute favorite in escape fiction (1920-1945 England), I would not go on with this series.
I do enjoy books like this one, where the murderer turns out to be (view spoiler)[the obvious person, but the murder was done in such a roundabout way that at first they seem to have to be innocent (hide spoiler)]. This is a particularly good example of the genre and often puts me in mind of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. How I wish I had an Ottercombe of my own to live in!
Not one of Marsh’s best.
Why do all murder mysteries seem so obvious at the end? I think I need to just read them slower and maybe I'll actually solve one on my own someday. Fun book!
This was another re-read - I was sure I remember who the murderer was, and of course I was wrong.
Three friends meet at an inn in Devon - an artist, an actor, and a lawyer.
The innkeeper makes a trip to London to see Alleyn, because he is tired of the constant chaffing he is getting about his poisoned drinks, etc., and he feels the local police are not doing enough.
Alleyn and Fox are happy to get out of hot, dirty London, but find the case difficult after so much time has passed.
I read a lot of mysteries and it is my way to go out of my way to not remember "whodunnit".
a delightful pun given the two types of Bars within.Classic mysteries like these are not supposed to be plausible or even hand you a murder on page one (although they can).
Reading them is a way to visit another world, one of pure fantasy, where - as in movies - one suspends disbelief.
So she created a nifty "stage" for the death at the bar.
The isolation of the community made this a fun almost, but not quite, locked room mystery.
Charming atmosphere, interesting cast of characters all of whom have a motive for murder, a tangle of interpersonal tensions just beneath the surface, a foolish chemist who gives out poisons that are far too strong and, of course, a fiendish plot.What impresses me about Marsh's mysteries is the care that goes into the settings and the characters.
I don't usually do a good job of caring about who the murderer is, as I do when reading Christie, but I care very much for the place and the people.That's really a big part of what a good novel does: it makes a place for you to go to.
3.5 stars.
9th in the Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Detective Roderick Alleyn series, this one set on the Devon coast in Ottercombe.
Alleyn and Fox are called in to sort a cyanide death -- accident or murder ?
-- during a darts dare at Abel Pomeroy's pub.
Complex.
I especially liked this: "If Nark's theory of how cyanide got on the dart was ever understood by him, he had no gift for imparting it to others.
He uttered generalizations of bewildering stupidity, assumed an air of huffiness, floundered into deep water, and remained there, blowing like a grampus."
I am growing very attached to this series, and the escapades of Inspectors Alleyn and Fox. In this installment, they out in the country, investigating a dart game that has gone awry. I say, the more outlandish the method of murder, the more fun! I didn't guess the killer (as is more usual than not), but the clues were there, and it all made sense in the end. I know some people are annoyed by the injection of romance into detective stories, but personally I would like to see more of Troy in future stories.
#9 in the suave and debonair, Scotland Yard Superintendent Roderick Alleyn mystery series. Alleyn is detached, sophisticated and expensively educated.It is set at an isolated country inn in the small seaside fishing village of Ottercombe in South Devon. There for a holiday are three friends: a lawyer, an actor and an artist . The lawyer, Luke Waterman, a bit of a heckler, gets a game of darts going when he’s struck by a dart and soon dies. Chief Inspector Alleyn of Scotland Yard is called in to deal with a murder rather than an accident.
Another Marsh story with plenty of twists and unusual characters.
In this one, it seemed like "who" wasn't quite as important as "how" and "why." I knew who rather early on and was pretty sure they knew as well, but getting to the how and why was an interesting trip.
With so much of the spoken text in vernacular the reading was a bit slow going at times but it helped to give flavor to the characters.
I would recommend this book if you're like me and want to read the entire series.
I already have the next one and will be starting it shortly.
This was a very fun mystery novel set is post WWII Britain. The setting is richly described and the mystery is a proper conundrum. Inspector Allen and Sergeant Fox (Brer Fox) are a nicely matched pair of detectives. A nice light read, and an even better listen with the great accents on the audiobook version. (But definitely not great literature. Characterization is not particularly full, and the plot, well, it's formulaic - what do you expect?)
Ngaio was was an artist, and this was a masterpiece. There was an absolutely wonderful device of having someone clueless recite all the wrong answers, giving Alleyn the opportunity to show his impeccable manners and genius crime-solving, all at the same time. I appreciate the repetition of characters, the use of fine arts (here, theater and portraiture), and Alleyn’s humor, compassion and intelligence.
Marsh gives us a golden-age setup -- a group of people with various antagonisms, in a remote coastal pub, with one of them poisoned to death. The trouble is that none of them is particularly likable and I found this one rather heavy going until well into the story, when her detective, Roderick Alleyn, shows up and there's someone I can root for. Not one of her best.
