https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46752.Mrs_Dalloway_s_Party
It was eleven o'clock and the unused hour was fresh as if issued to children on a beach.""Mrs. Dalloway in Bond Street" These seven short stories continue or extend Virginia Woolf's ideas about Mrs. Dalloway's party in her landmark 1925 novel Mrs. Dalloway.
The stories in Mrs. Dalloway’s Party create a dynamic and delightful portrait of what Woolf called “party consciousness.” Woolf has such a tremendous insight into human nature and her character's inner psyches.
This is a wonderful companion piece to Mrs. Dalloway and should be read after Mrs. Dalloway to provide an even fuller portrait of the Dalloway's party.
Shallow.I've never been able to see what was so great about Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West, the premiere female authors of the Bloomsbury Set. Two women from the upper class who wrote books about upper class women who did nothing at all except have minor angsts or affairs which they wrote about with excellent powers of description but no introspection at all.
The men were different, there were some very great writers amongst them - Lytton Strachey and the wonderful E.M. Forster, for example.Really, the Bloomsbury set were famous for their casual sexual mores, their artistic inclination, their atheism and general opposition to the traditions of the times, all attitudes afforded to them by their aristocratic status and great wealth.
I absolutely adored these short stories. I enjoyed delving into these people's minds while they are supposedly enjoying Mrs. Dalloway's party. Their thoughts say so much about the human condition and existence. How we are our own worst enemies. And her writing... I am so in love with Virginia Woolf.Let me be, let me be...P.S. We all have been to this party. Yesterday, today and tomorrow.
"Mrs Dalloway said she would buy the gloves herself.", desta forma começa o primeiro conto deste livro, um tanto semelhante a um romance posterior.
Mrs Dalloway's Party reúne em si sete contos de Woolf que terão sido escritos antes e em paralelo com Mrs Dalloway.
Os contos apesar de independentes, de alguma forma se fundem, criando uma consciência global do que será uma e a mesma festa, fracturada em sete formas distintas do particular.
Apesar de bastante sucintos, os contos são densos em conteúdo e seguem uma ordem cronológica.
Alarmed, she realizes for the first time that the shop girl is a good twenty years older than the last time Mrs. Dalloway bothered to really look at her, to consider her as a fellow human rather than as a mere servant worthy of no special consideration.
Immediately, Mrs. Dalloway turns away from such dreary considerations to more important concerns: Will the wrong people come to her party while the right people stay away?
Unabashed, the formidable Mrs. Dalloway plays matchmaker for these individuals.
Virginia Woolf, Stella McNichol (ed.).
***.I have no skill in reviewing short stories, especially short stories written by Virginia Woolf.
These seven pieces were written between 1923 and 1924, and formed the plot basis for much of Woolf’s “Mrs. Dalloway.” Of the seven, perhaps three of them were readable; the other four straying off into the strange world of Woolf.
It is obvious that Woolf used these short works as character studies that she included in the later novel.
I suspect that this collection would be of primary interest to scholars on Woolf’s work – although there be many out there who enjoy her flights of fancy in a style that is barely trackable.
Difficult to rate this collection seeing as how it was something intentionally omitted from the original novel. Not one I’d recommend to someone new to Woolf, that’s for sure.
I found two positive things to say about this book.
First, as a self-confessed lover of 'all things gramatical', Virginia Woolf's long complex sentences are beautifully constructed.
My second positive to take away from this book is the incredibly insight Woolf offers into the mind of a woman who suffered from artistic repression, and depression.
It is so true, we create our won misery through misunderstanding and assuming the worst.However, the stories - particularly the second to last (The New Dress) - were such a faithful picture of how a paranoid person can create their own miserable experience, whether or not their assumptions are correct.
Seven stories, a further look into the high society life that makes Mrs. Dalloway's party. Ms Woolf had a fascination with parties and I have a fascination with her fascination. "For a party makes things either much more real or much less real." My favorite story being the longest- written, entirely about one outdated dress.
Una bella sorpresa, no solo por la prosa, serena, pacífica, llena de imágenes y murmullo, sino por la crítica solapada.Reseña completa en: https://labibliotecadehermione.wordpr...
Imagine reading about someone's very normal life for the course of what seems to be 24 hours.
It was very bland, and while there were some parts that would spark (Peter Walsh & Mrs. Calloway seeing each other years later after Mrs. Calloway chose Richard over him) my interest didn't continue beyond that.
Of course, this was an assigned reading for my junior year college English class.
Otherwise I don't think I would have ever read it.
I like to give certain books a second chance, but everything I've read by Virginia Woolf has been rather bland.
This is our July Library Reading Group read and I can't wait to see what the rest of the group think.
A very short book of 57 pages, comprising of 7 short stories or as it calls them in the introduction chapters.
The only way that you could call them chapters is that they are all set in the lead up to the Party but aren't related to one another in any other way.
I gave the book a 4/10 and that was for the writing style rather than the content.
I do love Virginia Woolf, and this is like a little added extra to Mrs Dalloway. Featuring characters already familiar from the main book, these are short stories focussing upon the thoughts and experiences of 7 individuals either going to or at Clarissa's party. Another short book!
I liked Woolf's perspective of writing each chapter about the feelings a guest has at a party, and I thought it interesting that many of these feelings still apply! However, I am not terribly fond of the writing style.
Read in one sitting. It's not bad, it's just nothing I'll remember by tomorrow morning. The stories are so short that I couldn't care for anyone.
Los cuentos de “La fiesta de la señora Dalloway” tratan básicamente de cómo un grupo de amigos y conocidos, hacen todo lo posible por aparentar lo que la sociedad dicta que deben mostrar, es decir, la fiesta es el momento propicio para hacerse ver como los mejores vestidos, los más exitosos, los más felices, aun cuando sus vidas no marchen de la mejor manera.Incluso encontramos que algunos personajes no logran encajar en las formas socialmente correctas, y por ello son tragados vivos por los tiburones asistentes a la fiesta, lo que me hizo reflexionar mucho sobre la actualidad.
Despite several interruptions even in the midst of a couple of these stories. I still enjoyed it. I am not much of a party goer. But I can relate to some of the inner thoughts of these elders at the party and i the shop. I at 50 am feeling my age and I think it helps to enjoy this collection of tales.
A great (easy, enjoyable, brief) introduction to the work of Virginia Woolf, and one of the few short story collections (that I am aware of) that actually tie together, and revolve around a central theme (i.e., Mrs. Dalloway’s Party). 🙂
Me gustó pero no es nada del otro mundo. Si les gustó Mrs. Dalloway es una buena forma de mantener vivo ese libro mediante.Esta edición de Lumen tiene unas ilustraciones muy bonitas de Yelena Bryksenkova que complementan muy bien la lectura.
Una novela corta, muy compleja y con excelente personajes.
Finalmente hay algunos que sirven de epílogo, como si la autora no quisiera abandonar del todo a sus criaturas y tuviera ganas de seguir disfrutando de ese momento tan peculiar, cargado de tensión y brío: una copa más, otro chisme pillado al vuelo, un último repaso a los volantes de un vestido antes de que las luces se apaguen y cada cual vuelva a ser lo que buenamente pueda.”Tengo que reconocer que el enfoque que ha dado Lumen a la obra no me ha gustado nada de nada, de hecho el prólogo de Bimba Bosé no es lo que esperaba para empezar a leer estos relatos de Woolf; por mucho que a la británica le gustaran las “parties” no creo que centrar todo el libro en lo relacionado con la moda, cómo visten, etc… sea precisamente la manera de encauzar a esta escritora.
3,5 stars🌟
As short story collections go, "Mrs. Dalloway's party" is a miracle.
I found myself mentally comparing and contrasting this story with the opening scenes of "Mrs. Dalloway".
This short story well illustrates the changes and nuances added in the process of writing, and gives us a fuller appreciation of the genius of "Mrs. Dalloway" as a finished novel.
The final six stories bring us into the consciousness of various guests at the party.
While clearly these stories were better left out of "Mrs. Dalloway" as a novel, they are a wonderful addendum in fleshing out what went on in the minds of characters that were given but a brief mention during the final scenes of "Mrs. Dalloway."Highly, highly recommended.
It was a chance to get people out of their usual doldrums and to have them interact in unusual ways (it seems in fact that this might be the only way for most men and women to talk socially.) Woolf's fascination with parties reminds me of my writerly fascination with the airport.
Though to be fair, the rambly part is a testament to the "stream-of-consciousness," that each of these stories is supposed to convey the realistic ramblings of the human thought process second by second (juxtaposed by occasional interruptions from the physical world.) I will always admire and respect Virginia Woolf for her truthfulness in how people think.
Bonus material to read slowly for readers who Love Mrs. Dalloway.
I've never read anything by Woolf before, but I must say that I enjoy her writing style.
I can almost hear my old English teacher say how "fine" this writing is, how beautiful those little moments of recognition at the end of most of these short stories are when the characters finally understand something.
Her stories pretty much consist of pure streams of consciousness reflecting the process of thinking as accurately as possible.
And the awkwardness of the characters is just great!"The New Dress", "The Introduction" and "Together and Apart" are probably my favourites.
Very fine writing indeed.
Mrs. Dalloway’s Party by Virginia Woolf is a collection of stories that serve as a good companion to her classic novel Mrs. Dalloway.
From the introduction to the book we learn that the stories were written at the same time as or just after the writing of the novel, the latter of which was especially unusual for Woolf.
She had thought to wear something unique, but instead ruminated on the decision the entire party.
I thoroughly enjoyed this slim book, but I have to say that it works best as a companion to the novel.
Mrs Dalloway’s Party is a short story sequence which was written in the same period as Virginia Woolf’s classic novel Mrs Dalloway.
The opening story Mrs Dalloway in Bond Street was originally intended as the first chapter of that novel.
Each of these stories illustrates beautifully Virginia Woolf’s fascination with parties and the raft of emotions and difficulties such occasions may bring.
In these stories Mrs Dalloway’s guests often appear isolated from the rest of the guests, middle aged, and upper middle class women anxious about their appearance, the antecedents of other guests, or their own reception by others at the party.
Brilliant stuff.Mrs Dalloway's Party: Together and Apart by Virginia Woolf Read by Emma Fielding Abridged and produced by Lucy Collingwoodblurb - Fascinated and preoccupied by the idea of this social event,Virginia Woolf wrote this story sequence around the same time as writing the novel Mrs Dalloway.
In each of these three stories written in Woolf's distinctive style, the listener is offered glimpses into each character's inner most thoughts and emotions.
Woolf depicts the intriguing social world of Mrs Dalloway's party in microscopic detail.In 'Together and Apart', two people are introduced at Mrs Dalloway's party and begin a rather awkward conversation where each of their internal thoughts about the other is revealed.
This is wonderful if you loved Mrs. Dalloway, like discovering a really good fan fiction about one of your favourite moments in a loved book, except it's written by the same author as the book.
What a privilege to read the draft of the opening sequence in Mrs Dalloway, where instead of flowers, she goes to buy a pair of gloves.
After reading this I wanted to read Mrs Dalloway again, because I could now flesh out the party scene more fully with the characters that inhabited it.
I recommend this to anyone who enjoys Woolf's work, and especially who enjoyed Mrs Dalloway.
