https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625004.Fright
Soon to be married Prescott Marshall goes on a bender and winds up sleeping with a young lady that isn't his fiancee.
She starts squeezing him for money afterwards and on the morning of his wedding, Prescott snaps!
He spends the rest of his life running, but you can't run from Fright!Actually, the name of the book should have been Guilt, not Fright.
The entire story is about Prescott's guilt leading to paranoia and eventually drunken insanity.
It's a pretty gripping yarn.So why only a three?
It's a pretty dated book.
Other than that, it was pretty good, if not a little predictable, although I didn't see the epilogue coming.
DNF. Woolrich attempts a stream of consciousness approach that is nonsensical, after a con-woman plies her deadly game on the main character. The novel would be more aptly named Angst. My first introduction to Woolrich is a downer, though I heard his later books (like this one) pale in comparison to his earlier works like The Bride Wore Black and The Black Angel.
Do you love the adjective "desultory"?
Then, brother, have I got a book for you.This is the second Cornell Woolrich novel I've read.
Woolrich was a fine plotter, but his characters were strangely flat.Fright, which Woolrich originally published in 1950 under the name George Hopley, takes place during the Great War (1914-1918), for no apparent reason.
Woolrich even writes things like "as was the fashion at the time" after some of them.The prose was my biggest problem with Fright.
If you're looking for a truly noir novel in which there are no admirable characters, well thought-out courses of action, or redemption, Fright fits the bill.
This one seems to have gotten crappy reviews from other readers, but I thought it was brilliant.
This I was totally engaged by and it actually scared me.I can only assume the bad reviews come from the weirdly gothic esthetic of the language, which makes it very different than the typical Hard Case Crime books and a mite difficult to identify with the narrator, in maybe the same way Lovecraft's narrators can be alienating to the reader.
I found that brilliant, though, the ending completely caught me off guard.Loved it.

Like the Tell-Tale Heart, this story is about the toll that guilt takes even after someone gets away with a crime. Set in the early 20th century, it's an interesting take on watching someone destroy his own life with paranoia and fear. Very well written.
but it haunts him, as he flees to 'a faraway city' to try to start over with his new wife..
it's a great look inside the head of a man trying to deal with what could be considered an eternal struggle...
does he tell his wife what's happened, and risk losing her, or keep it a secret and risk losing her because of his erratic actions?Things got a little weird at the end, and took more of a turn than I expected, but it made sense once all was made clear.
Not so much a crime/mystery as a study in fear and paranoia, which is common Woolrich territory. This tale pushes the limits of believabilty, especially given the time period of the story, but still has its creepy moments. The story doesn't date all that well as Marjorie would have a different set of reactions by pushing the piece ahead by fifty years, so it is up to the reader to keep that constant reminder in the forefront while reading.
Great plot but the constant paranoia is a bit wearing and overly repetitive. Would have been awesome if this had been leaned down to novella length. A screenplay would have streamlined this story and it would have been a great film noir, as so many of Woolrich's other stories were.
For me, with Woolrich, there is always something, I don't know, a little something, just keeping him from being great.
Marshall murders her in a blind rage minutes before he heads to the altar.
The initial murder scene is especially compelling, as Marshall describes strangling someone to death as an elaborate poetic dance around the room.
The author sometimes freezes a scene and describes it in excruciating detail as if it were a still painting.
These scenes were so good that I was disappointed when they didn't really happen; that story would have been more fun to read than the "real" ending.Despite these minor flaws, the book is still highly entertaining and effective.
A disclaimer: despite the almost universal veneration in which Cornell Woolrich is held by mystery fans and writers, this is in fact the first of his books which I have ever read.
Outside of the works of Frank Herbert, and the time I was forced to read CLAN OF THE CAVE BEAR for an anthropology class (to view examples of bad anthropology, not bad writing), this has to be the most badly written book I have ever finished.
Which brings me back to my disclaimer: can somebody out there please direct me to a well written Cornell Woolrich novel?
The cover copy of the Hard Case Crime edition says "first publication in over 50 years." I'm glad HCC brought it back into print.I haven't read much noir fiction.
There are some moments of almost melodrama, and some somewhat cliched turns of events -- but remember, it was written 57 years ago and much of it was probably not cliched at the time.Fright is the story of Prescott Marshall, who meets, woos and marries the woman of his dreams.
It's like the difference between slasher flicks and more psychological horror: the implications are more un-nerving than the details would be.All of the HCC books have covers reminiscent of classic noir pulp covers.
Prescott Marshall had fallen in love with Marjorie Worth.
They came from different levels of society: Prescott had a beginning job on Wall Street, while Marjorie came from money.
On the night that Marshall was planning to propose to Marjorie, he got a phone call from her explaining that her father was sick and that she couldn’t make it to the club.
This went on for quite a while, until it was finally the night before his wedding day.
Marshall hid her in the closet and went off to his wedding ceremony, but suddenly he was very scared.
The plot gets more convoluted, with a surprise ending.
Cornell Woolrich fans (myself included) are highly skilled at praising his strengths while discounting his weaknesses.
Usually, this means reveling in the momentum of his plots while overlooking their inherent absurdities.
Though I give Fright passing marks on the whole, its weaknesses are too great to ignore.
Yes, as other reviewers have complained, the prose is overwrought, but the greater problem is that the book's protagonist, Prescott Marshall, is not a sympathetic character.
He is not an innocent victim of the fates, as are many Woolrich heroes.
Nice ending, though.Footnote: Fright makes an interesting pair with Seymour Shubin's Witness to Myself (Hard Case Crime, 2006), which covers a similar (but different!) noir landscape.
Hard Case Crime rocks, but they're also digging up a lot of Z-list work from A-list noir writers. When Woolrich is bad he's miserable, and "Fright" fits the bill. It's basically the shaggy dog story of the rich guy of spotless reputation who kills and then has to cover up the body, flipping out and getting paranoid every three pages. The tension is never broken up to allow the panic to renew itself. It's akin to being stuck in an airplane next to a terrified crash-freak. F+
Woolrich is one of the all-time greats, and this book is fantastic. Support Hard Case Crime so they can keep getting masterworks like this back into print!
The word "genius" is not hyperbole when describing Cornell Woolrich's singular talent. America's own dime-store Dostoyevsky.
Published in 1950 under Woolrich's pseudonym "George Hopley," Fright begins in World War I era New York and plays out over just a couple of succeeding years.
Two wars, a depression and the atomic bomb appeared in the intervening years to say the least.Woolrich was a maestro of psychological tension, and his choice and description of the time period purposely create a sense of dislocation in the reader that he exploits in masterful fashion.
Fright manages to expertly pull the reader into Prescott Marshall's mind.
The main character is sucked deeper and deeper into a black pit that he cannot escape from.
He was not a very likable character, but in this type of book, likable isn't really necessary – it's sort of like watching a train wreck in slow motion.
I knew the ending would be the main character getting his just reward, but I wasn't prepared for the way the ending happened.
I did find the story suspenseful, as I wondered when and exactly how the main character would be caught.
And the twist at the end – the really major twist, caught me completely by surprise and really tied the novel together nicely
The book takes place when Woolrich was a teenager, so maybe he has some memories of the time, but a lot of the language and tone seems stolen from things like HG Wells or Edith Wharton.Then, the main character is so consistantly stupid, that I can feel no pity for him even in his self-inflicted misery.
That is a bad thing to have done.
When you leave someone who is a homicidal maniac, allowing them back into your apartment seems like a bad move, no matter what era you're in.Definitely not one of the finer books Hard Case has put out.
It probably began right at the start, but I didn't really notice because introduction was so good.You see, in Fright nobody ever simply says something.
Instead they relate, protest, admit, confine, echo, demand (and counter-demand), exclaim, interject, concur, chortle, parry, admonish, note, retort and even - I kid you fucking not - ejaculate!And they do so palpitating, pensively, assiduously, obdurately, demurely, strenuously, vociferously, amiably, ebulliently, wonderingly, charitably, ruefully, inwardly, magnanimously, caustically, neutrally, stonily, guilelessly, reticently, deprecatingly, parenthetically.
Or simply in dazed exaltation, in disquietude, in discomfiture, in fervent gratitude, in attitude of morose pensiveness, with aching diffidence, or surrounded by surreptitious air of excitement.
Cornell Woolrich manages to layer on the paranoia and fear.
We see the Prescott make his first bad decisions innocently enough but then his paranoia pushes him to make one bad decision after another, piling them on.
With dumb luck unknowingly on his side he carries around the shovel digging his own grave one spadeful at a time and he just can't seem to stop himself.I thought this was going to be one of Woolrich's weaker efforts.
At times it tipped on the edge of melodrama but Woolrich never let it slip over.Woolrich is good at showing how precarious life is; how one small, seemingly innocent mistake can lead to disaster, nightmare, and death.
This obscure Woolrich title hadn't been publshed since its original publication under his lesser known pen name of George Hopley - William Irish being, I think, the pen name more often used.
Of all the tortured messed up pulp noir writers, Woolrich was the most bent and twisted, with David Goodis running a close second on his bare scraped knees as a 250 pound woman whips him.When a Woolrch book is working properly your guts get twisted up and you feel a hovering sense of wrongness and unease.
Plus there's a more than slightly hard to believe masochistic twist in an epilogue.
Relentlessly dark Woolrich that, although a little episodic and a little too long, still proves his mastery at suspense.
Writing as William Irish, his prose is very often way over the top and sometimes incoherent, but among his overwritten passages are some picturesque similes in the spirit of the grim tale this is.
I'm always impressed by how cinematic his writing is -- the way he magnifies small details in his scenes, as if they are being presented on film.
Such moments are like close-ups that capture a tiny essence in the drama, often unnecessary to the narrative yet supremely important for fleshing out the mood and tension of the moment.
Pretty disappointed. I adore Woolrich and Hard Case Crime so I was looking forward to this. It really wasn't that good. I think he's better with shorter works (though Married a Dead Man was great). This is the first time this book's been printed under his name, and maybe there was a reason. Woolrich was definitely a working writer, sometimes maybe rushing things out - it reminds me of PK Dick, the way the works often feel like they could have benefitted from more editing and care.
"A branch without leaf, without sap, without bend. Black, and foundry-hard, and with a little round malignant mouth at the end; and its flowering will be death.^This is an amazing book. A jewel amongst some already petty special stones in the Hard Case Crime series so far. Exceptionally well written and an insight into what our fear of 'what might happen' can make us do some pretty irrational stuff.Highly recommend and, as always, a cover to die for.
Fright is an interesting read. Clearly Cornell Woolrich is a master wordsmith and a master of suspense. I didn't like how this book flowed and I had a problem with the ending. I detected at least one flaw in the plot.
My first Woolrich, and even more brutal than expected. Reminded me at times of Patricia Highsmith (especially "Deep Water") and, in some of the domestic bleakness, even Fitzgerald. And much more beautifully written than most noir.
Pathetic attempt to steal Poe’s “Tell Tale Heart”.
