https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48019.The_Effective_Executive
He is the master at learning how to be "effective" and from him, I learned how to filter what are the best effectiveness 21st century leadership practices.
Self love & taking care of oneself daily (for me, taught by Richard Bach, M.
Using a ratio of 7 PEA to 1 NEA(For me, taught by Resonant Leader and developing a self care agenda)4.
As AA says, and M.Scott Peck quotes..."I'm not okay, you're not okay and that's okay." Learning to forgive one's self and others and accept the mystery of life is a life long leadership and life journey.
Stop reading boring blogs and books about productivity and go straight to the source of many of these ideas. Then, stop thinking about being productive and go do something.
The Effective Executive was published in 1967 and this book is as good a starting point as any for the uninitiated.Effectiveness is a habit and habits can be learned through practice, lots of it.
According to Drucker there are five habits that, once acquired, determine the effectiveness of an executive.
Make effective decisions.The book provides detail and substance to these five habits of executive effectiveness.
Don't let these dated examples lull you into thinking that "times have changed." While they certainly have, the practices that lead to executive effectiveness have stood the test of time.
I'm pretty sure that if we'd ever met in real life I'd have punched Peter Drucker in the face.You can buy the book here.
Know where your time goes; relentlessly prune unproductive activities.2.
Know the contribution you're expected to make - to others' contributions and to the organization.3.
Make your strengths productive and hone them; focus on the absence of weakness leads to mediocrity.4.
There are always more opportunities available than time to pursue them – prioritize and focus on the truly impactful.5.
Continually shed unproductive programs and processes by asking, "If we didn't already do this, would we go into it now?"6.
Most events are generic and should be handled by rules, policies, and procedures; solutions to truly unique events should be formed on the highest conceptual level possible.
Know Thy Time - take a time inventory & eliminate "need not be done", "could be done by others", and "wasting other's time". - prune time wasters - lack of systems --> crisis - overstaffing --> unnecessary coordination - malorganization --> excessive mtgs - malfunction in information - consolidate discretionary time into meaningful chunks to facilitate effectiveness (eg 1.5 hr)What can I contribute? - in terms of EXTERNAL results - aim highMaking strengths productive - focus on indv
Know Thy Time	- take a time inventory & eliminate "need not be done", "could be done by others", and "wasting other's time".
- prune time wasters		- lack of systems --> crisis		- overstaffing --> unnecessary coordination		- malorganization --> excessive mtgs		- malfunction in information	- consolidate discretionary time into meaningful chunks to facilitate effectiveness (eg 1.5 hr)What can I contribute?
Управление в значительной мере осуществляется на личном примере.Я называю руководителями тех работников умственного труда, менеджеров или независимых профессионалов, которые в силу своего положения или имеющихся знаний обязаны в  ходе своей деятельности принимать решения, оказывающие значительное влияние на результат работы всей организации.Опыт развития человечества говорит о том, что единственный работник, неизменно имеющийся в наличии – это универсально некомпетентный работник.
Первый шаг к повышению эффективности работы руководителя – это точная регистрация фактических трат времени.«Что случится, если этого вообще не делать?» Если вы ответите: «Ничего не случится», значит, от дела нужно отказаться.Второй вопрос звучит так: «Какими видами моей деятельности можно поручить заняться кому-то другому, чтобы он выполнил работу не хуже, а то и лучше меня?»Одну распространенную причину непродуктивной траты времени руководитель в значительной степени способен контролировать и, следовательно, устранить.
Where most are weak is training church leaders to be time-managers, meeting-facilitators, action-planners, decision-makers, and priority-setters.
For Drucker (after years of watching and studying executives) effectiveness consists in chiefly five practices: Effective executives: (1) know where their time goes and they work to manage it; (2) focus on the results expected of them, over the work they put in; (3) build on their own strengths--and those of their superiors, subordinates, and the organization; (4) set priorities and do firsts things first; (5) make effective decisions that begin with opinions and organized disagreement rather than "facts." Outstanding book.
I find Drucker to be really repetitive. There were quite a few sentences that didn't really add anything, and should have been taken out.
Ваша система оценок на это не направлена».Он постоянно задавал вопрос: «Что может этот человек?» Если оказывалось, что он на что‑то способен, то его слабости просто не замечались.Ориентация на недостатки – не только глупость, но и безответственность.Умелый управляющий задаст следующие вопросы: «Какую работу может выполнять мой начальник на высоком уровне?», «В чем он уже проявил себя с наилучшей стороны ?», «Что ему нужно знать, чтобы применить свои полезные качества?», «В какой помощи с моей стороны он нуждается для качественного выполнения своих обязанностей?».
Just like most of them, this book has too many words for 5 or so ideas. The conclusion at the very end sums everything up, so you don't have to read the whole book, just read the last few pages.
Ask your subordinates how you are preventing them from doing their work effectively.The first version of the book was written in 1965, but majority of the assumptions are still valid on 21th century (like the perception that computers will take over decision making VS actually expecting serious mental effort from people because one cannot compete with computer on standard computation).
The first and the last of these are too often overlooked—with dire results.” “Working on the right things is what makes knowledge work effective.”“If the executive lets the flow of events determine what he does, what he works on, and what he takes seriously, he will fritter himself away “operating.” He may be an excellent man.
This book must be read not as a small collection of business advice, like a Poor Richards for the executive class, but as a manifesto for the times.
Drucker recognized that this new class of workers needed to be harnessed as the driving force for a new generation of organizations.
Above all, the thing that makes a decision effective is follow through and execution.
In order to compete in the post WWII world the knowledge workers throughout the organization needed to be capable of making decisions on their own that aligned with and drove the organization to effectiveness.
Эффективность руководителя наше все!!!Хорошо описано принятие решений!
Drucker takes decades of consulting experience with numerous famous and infamous companies and in its fifth edition, he breaks down the necessities of knowledge workers compared to manual workers.Although the introduction and conclusion are most insightful, The Effective Executive is uniquely laid out with specific examples sandwiched in the middle of chapter subtopics only noted by a single bullet.
I found these bulleted sections very distracting, but perhaps you may prefer real stories of oftentimes famous businessmen.
Surrounding these stories are intense truths about time management, strengths mobilization, prioritization and decision-making that Druker has noted throughout his career.
ВЕЛИЧАЙШАЯ и фундаментальная книга для управленцев всех разрядов, уровней и структур!Книги Питера Друкера это нечто невероятное, это ценнейшие произведения из мирового архива книг о менеджменте и стратегическом управлении. Именно про такие книги говорят: "Днём с огнём не сыщешь!".Описать ценность книга очень сложно. Но автор как всегда пишет легко, просто и безукоризненно о очень сложных и самых важных вещах в бизнесе и о том какими качествами, навыками, способностями, знаниями, амбициями и прочими аспектами должен обладать руководитель.Так это или нет, но эта книга должна быть в золотом фонде мировых деловых книг!
Don't know what's the hype about this book, it's simple common sense. Anyone who ever was in "meeting" knows its waste of time, why I should read book about that? The thing executives come in various shapes and sizes was mentioned in various other, earlier books. Management books are second after self help nonsense. Sad, no one over-hypes evidence or data based approaches...
First things first.
The Effective Executive is filled with good advice.
The advice in this book is useful to most anyone working in a modern company.Alas, there are two problems with the book that stop me from full-heartedly recommending this book:* It's dated, and it shows.
There's a lot of repetition and flowery language.* I've already read "The Effective Engineer" (one of my favorite books of 2016), which builds upon the concept of "effectiveness."In the end, I liked this book by Peter Drucker, but just barely.
If you're not, then this book might be worth a read, depending on how fast you become annoyed with dated language 🙂.
Key takaways:- measure and analyze your time as a manager- plan for constant change and adaptability, rather than immediate greatness- dedicate yourself to 1 main task per day- re-evaluate your next priorities during the day (e.g. I started planning for max 2 tasks ahead)- focus on colaboration- while delegating work balance between people's career strengths and goals- take advantage of meetings and 101s – decide how to make all the meetings worth (personally I used to do 1h meetings, now I try to keep them around 30 mins, and go through the agenda-discussion-todos framework.
That works great for me, but the approach should be personal and backed by your own data and subjective observations).
A classic book on how to get things done at work. It's amazing how a book written so long ago can still be so relevant with its simple straightforward advice. The number one tip in the book is, you need to first manage yourself (your own time and responsibilities) in order to manage others.
Algo aburrido, algo tedioso, pero inmensamente necesario.
Пожалуй лучшая книга для руководителей, которая попадалась мне за последнее время! Рекомендую всем и опытным и начинающим руководителям.
The Effective Executive is a classic that I'd recommend to anyone wanting to manage teams or to any current manager who hasn't yet read it.
The book is packed with many more timeless recommendations in a single chapter than in the entirety of almost all other management books I've read.
Save your precious reading time by reading this book first.
Or maybe just instead.My biggest issue was the constant reference to men, man, him, his, etc.
when referring to executives, managers, and just about anyone other than a secretary.
I know the book was written decades ago, but it was still very jarring.
be productive and control your time or you'll do nothing as an executive.
time yourself.
eliminate time-wasters.
time is the scarcest resource.Ask yourself why you are on the payroll and work to make that purpose realizedmaking strengths productive; don't eliminate weakness when you can bolster and utilize strength.
a new issue may become the new generic and so may need a new rule.boundary conditions must be identified and decided within.almost every knowledge worker is an "executive" of themselves.Motzart was the only famous composer to work on multiple works at once.
I don't understand like 80% of this book, but the 20% are the important contents here which are:1) To record where time goes2) Focus on contribution3) Making strengths productive4) Results matter5) Effective decision than just decision
Great book. Although a bit dated with anecdotes of Vail’s Bell, Slone at GM, JP Morgan. Customer service was Vail’s controversial vision and government regulation was his solution against nationalization. Yes, somewhat dated. 😀 Certainly a book I will reread.
I had trouble getting through this. I skimmed the last 1/3 of the book. It was written in the 1960s, and it hasn’t been updated. I understand it’s dated because it hasn’t been updated in about 50 years, but I still had trouble with it. It’s written in a very stodgy voice. It was hard for me to look past the style and absorb the substance.
Time has not been kind to this classic. Peter Drucker was a giant in his day, but I would not recommend this book.
Please take the time to go through these and evaluate your own effectiveness.KEY QUESTIONSThe main thesis of the book revolves around: “What needs to be done?” Note that the question is not “What do I want to do?”Is this decision the right thing for the enterprise?
What do I do what wastes others time without contributing to their effectiveness?ON CONTRIBUTION…What can I contribute that will significantly affect the performance and results of the institution I serve?What can I and no one else do which, if done really well, could make a real difference to this company?Ask your colleagues, “What contribution from me do you require to make your contribution to the organization?
