https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77738.Flag_in_Exile
I have a love/hate relationship with the Honor Harrington books.
Flag in Exile is more of the same.Honor Harrington is left to cool her heels on Grayson.
At the same time, a Havenite task force is set in motion for a blitzkrieg attack on Grayson that will knock the Manticore ally out of the war and strike a terrible blow against the alliance.
The Honor Harrington books are basically the 1789-1815 period in space.
Maybe that shouldn't bug me so much.
It felt simplistic.Bottom line I give the book three and a half stars.
(I figure if you're this far into the series, like me you'll see the flaws as "overall" minor and plan on reading the book anyway).
At one point (and this may be "unkind of me") Honor seems almost whiny.In the end the problems are fairly minor (as I said) and the story ties up (with the traditional semi-cliffhanger ending.
He does make it clear that he doesn't consider all religious people wild eyed fanatics...but he does paint the fanatics in the book with vibrant colors.Oh well.So in the end, flawed, but I'll still go 4 stars.
Not passed each other but interpenetrated, for Honor had deliberately turned directly across TG 14.1’s base course to give her energy weapons the best possible field of fire for the bare twelve seconds it would take the Peeps to shoot clear across their effective range envelope.”Flag in Exile starts with Harrington having become a steadholder on the planet Grayson as both a reward for saving their leader from assassination and as a way to provide her with time and space to recover from the injuries she suffered while doing so.One of the annoying aspects of Weber’s series is his contrived drama between two political world views: the monarchists and the “communists.” He could have chosen to create more realistic issues for the far future but his Republic of Haven is almost entirely two-dimensional from its painful “entitlements” to its new leader, Robert Stanton Pierre (or Rob S Pierre), chairman of the Committee of Public Safety.The novel is further bloated by Weber’s determination to give us his thoughts (only slightly veiled) on communism, liberalism, progressivism and their deleterious effect on: freedom; the true function of the military; and, the dignity of the individual in society.
I was a bit sceptical about Honor being stuck on Greyson after the events of the previous book, mostly because of the misogynistic views of Grayson's population.
This is an older book written in the times when we still thought that we have a bright future ahead of us - one free of bigotry, religious persecutions and sexism.
I loved how Honor dealt with her attackers and I admire her courage and perseverance cause I know I would have cracked under such pressure.
The way Honor outmaneuvered the Peeps was incredible and I love how her brain works.
Another fun adventure. Poor old Honor is pushed to the max this time & it was well done. Info dumps got pretty old, though.While my library has more of the series in audio, they're missing the next 3, so I'm going to quit listening to the series now. 6 were plenty, but it was a fun romp even though I'd read them all in paper before. There weren't any surprises, but it was still fun. Congrats to Weber for creating such heroine.
Exiled in disgrace, Honor takes up her post as Steadholder of Grayson, but a Woman In Charge is a very new thing on her adopted planet and not everyone thinks her presence there is a good idea.
Great stuff.The thing I like most about these novels is that Honor is no cardboard character.
The best thing about her is she doesn't buy into everyone else's opinion of her--if she were a hero, she thinks, then she should have been able not only to win the battle, but to have saved all of her crewmen who died in that battle.
The proportion of historic data dump to new material is growing, but his book actually had a story . . . and a good one. Giving Weber the benefit of my previous downgrade.Written as it was, just prior to the Oklahoma City bombing, this tale's tragedy is all the more poignant.
At this rate, I may actually finish the Honor Harrington series before the heat death of the universe.
In Flag in Exile, Honor retires to Grayson as steadholder after losing her commission thanks in no small part to Pavel Young.
Her new venture in Sky Domes promises to make her even more wealthy, she's been requested to act as Admiral to a squadron consisting of half a dozen super dreadnaughts and other lighter attack craft, and considering her pseudo-exile, things are progressing swimmingly.
And once again, the naval battle almost necessary in any Harrington novel, only really plays a bit part toward the end of the book.
This fifth book felt like a return to to the promise of the early series for David Weber. With her lover murdered in the previous novel, and her own exile from Manticore as a direct response to the resulting duel,  Flag in Exile  leaves Honor heartbroken and moping about on her steading on Grayson. With the rising of hostilities between Manticore and Haven, it's only a matter of time before the ships protecting Grayson have to be redeployed. Grayson will no doubt need a new leader for their own
With her lover murdered in the previous novel, and her own exile from Manticore as a direct response to the resulting duel, 
The same prejudices are at work as in the previous book.
She needs help and the two stories sit comfortably alongside each other without feeling like their competing to be the 'a' plot, or overly competing for Honor's attention.The bad guys still suffer from being a little too shallow – religious and misogynist bigots will do what religious and misogynist bigots do (and pretty much only that).
Flag in Exile is the fifth book in the Honor Harrington series.
It takes a different approach than the earlier books, and it makes me wonder what direction the series aims to travel.Honor is essentially exiled from Manticore.
Definitely something to boost an ego, but Honor takes it all in stride, of course.Her business of building special domes on the planet initially goes well.
Some Graysons are accepting of Honor, so it’s not a female hate party the entire time.Of course, something goes wrong and Honor feels culpable.
I wonder if she’s going to have persistent psychological issues throughout the series?Being an Honor Harrington book, the “bad guys” are one-dimensional.
This book is dedicated to Roger Zelazny. I guess he died about the time it was originally published. More of the same as the rest of the series. I don't recall that the info dumps were terrible in this one & it was fun. Honor ascends to new levels, of course. Fun.
This is the second book of the series set primarily on the planet Grayson.
Honor is a direct challenge to this view and many people on the planet feel threatened by her.
Not only are they threatened by her, they view her ascension to Steadholder as an affront to God and she must be purged.In this book, Honor has to fight many internal and emotional demons.
Unlike the previous books, she is not given a single ship, but a squadron of the largest military ships in space and made second in command of the entire Grayson navy.Even though there is a lot of politics in this book, there is plenty of action for those craving it.
This book has everything I hate about the series: politics, religious fanaticism, no action and Honor who's gotten even less personality than before.
I'd rather read a summary and then we'll see if I ever go back to the series as a whole :/EDIT: I've actually managed to finish this and the second half is admittedly slightly better than the first, but still, the amount of both religious preaching and religious fanaticism is staggering and absolutely awful.
I'm really hoping book 5 is when we're getting past the non-action stories, but please please please let it just stop with Honor's personal crap...
This series has always had it's faults, but to me it's getting to a point where the bad outweighs the good.
A good editor could solve this problem pretty easily because so much of it really is superfluous information.
(Plus it gets melodramatic very quickly.) Another big problem lies in the character of Honor.
The first book was so good in part because she was such an underdog.
By book five you just have to accept that there is nothing she can't do, there is no one who is better than her at anything, and that despite all of the evidence that she is without fault she will have an "aww shucks" attitude about it and will never believe that she is superhuman.
The fifth book in the "Honor Harrington" series is just as good as the others. I'm genuinely interested in what is happening in the universe of the series... both on a personal and on a political level. Despite now having read five books in five days... no signs of boredom yet.
First read September 7, 2010
2018 re-read. A really good blend of planetside and space adventures.
I think banishment to Grayson has been good for Honor. But she is definitely a trouble magnet!
For seven years, that group ran like a sort of multi-author story, twisting together the plotlines of all our characters, and it was quite fantastic.
I got sick of listening to pseudo-religious bullshit being spewed by the bad guys as they justified horrendous acts in the name of God. I'm not religious myself, but the anti-religious slant of these diatribes, which go on for pages (or minutes; it's an audiobook) and come pretty frequently was becoming kind of noxious by the end of the book.
Condense the story into what actually happened, and it's a good read, but listening to it was kind of tiring.
Liked this outing very much.Honor has been given a Steadholding. For her bravery in saving a planet, as well as it's people.(Kind of like a feudal lord old Earth times.So now she is responsible for the multitude under her.Nice pacing, and we see Honor. Once again show her quality.While being at first overwhelmed. BY all her new responsibilities.Among saboteurs, plots against her, assassins.Not to mention the sneak attack coming from an enemy fleet.This one has a lot going on, and for it. Kept me wanting to keep reading on.
3.25
I'll buy that her anguish over the death of her lover in the previous book Field of Dishonor (1994) and her uncertainties stemming in part from her loss of active duty status with the Manticore navy and banishment to her steadhold on Grayson are necessary to her character development - but it seems that in light of her repeatedly demonstrated competence, the length and number of her soul searching, self-doubt episodes approach the status of self-indulgent whining.
But that was a quibble, the book is still a great read.Honor Harrington series - Hounded by political enemies and cut to the heart by the death of the man she loved, Honor Harrington has retreated to the planet Grayson to take up her role as Steadholder while she tries to heal her bitter wounds.
There's never any doubt that Honor will win the battle and destroy her enemies, but the climax is no less enjoyable for that certainty.
The body count is always high and the author isn't afraid to kill off characters you've become attached to, so there is a nice amount of tension concerning who will survive each round.The Honor-worship does get a little thick sometimes, particularly in the early part of this book.
While she is not as morose as Horatio Hornblower, from whom her character is derived, once in a while Honor does become consumed with grief and self-doubt.
In some ways, I think this book is just as strong as the first; death-rides meet politics. In others, I really think Harrington's becoming super-human, and it bugs me. Additionally, the Peep characters really gain some depth in this book, but I'm still sad to say that there isn't a lot to redeem the religious extremists that pit themselves against Harrington. I dunno why I'm so picky about villains that have something to redeem them; maybe it's just that I can't believe that anyone would truly be evil simply for evil's sake.Good read either way.
The series is taking on a rather sameness at this point, with the books becoming more and more indistinguishable. Honor's enemies hate her due to their own class/religious bigotry. Honor's enemies plot against her, but the plot goes awry and kills a bunch of innocent bystanders/friends. Honor's enemies underestimate her in some personal confrontation. Honor wins a huge space battle despite overwhelming odds. Between the plot rut and the more-and-more overt political leanings of the author, I may have to give up on this series.
Book 5 in the HH series.Having made a few too many waves and a few more enemies in the previous novel, Honor travels to Grayson to lay low and take up her steadholders key and make her holdings into a true innovator. Add a commission in the Grayson navy, the usual plots and a battle to fight and this makes an excellent novel in the ongoing Honor Harrington series. More character development, more Grayson and a cool battle to top it off.
After a long hiatus, Field of Dishonor drew me back into this series. The resulotion of that novel drew me quickly into Flag in Exile. I was not disappointed.While I found some of the dome construction detail and religious fanaticism a little distracting, all other elements of this story kept my interest. At the same time, I found most of the book predictable, but that added to the pleasure. It is an interesting mix of political intrigue and military tactics.
When I'd read to 50% the story began improving tremendously and I enjoyed it from that point to about 87%. The ending was okay with info-dump sections, the beginning just lasted for so long.I noticed that as Honor had killed Lord Pavell in the last novel she was given a new enemy Lord in this novel. Boring!I don't think I can face the next part, too much plod for not enough adventure.
3.5 stars, but with a Great space battle at the end. Weber does do these amazingly well.The book starts well, but quickly slides into dull, idiotic religious politics. Some threadbare technical sabotage in the middle of the book is very long-winded.But the final scene with Honor on planet, and then the battle in space is superb.
I enjoyed this 2nd reading much more than I was expecting, given the incredible amount of death and destruction that surrounds Honor from all sides. I wish I'd indicated my rating from the first time I read it, as I know I found it much more depressing than I do now...so I wonder, if my knowing whats going to happen in the next 2 books has tempered my reaction to this one.
