https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10032672-the-language-of-flowers
But I did not expect the story to rely so heavily on flashbacks to Victoria's time on Elizabeth's vine-yard - which triggered her all-consuming obsession about the meaning each decorative plant used to have in European culture – that climax in revealing the outrageous reason for the planned adoption to go amiss (view spoiler)[Her actions made me really irrevocably hate Elizabeth.
That was inexcusable to do to someone who felt loved and wanted for the very first time (hide spoiler)] and for Victoria to go finally - and understandably - feral.
I believe my suspension of disbelief was at the breaking point by this time.Well, what a surprise, she isn’t able to have the baby all by herself so she gets help and after a week(during which she doesn't bother to even name the child), she gives it away (not for adoption), even though she could have asked for help, could have at the very least told someone when that person is there, in the room with her, asking her how she’s doing, that she wasn’t doing well.
Can't remember when I've read and enjoyed a story as much as Victoria's.
She stole my heart from the beginning and I only grew to admire and love her more with each page.
There were times when I wanted to shake her and yell at her to wake up and get a grip.
Amazing story of survival, love, and strength.
The flowers add so much depth and feelings to this story that I was enthralled by it all.
Just an amazing and wonderfully well written book with a full bouquet of heart touching moments to remember and treasure.
It showed great promise for about the first third.
Diffenbaugh seemed to show an accurate and heartbreaking portrait of a young girl who is let down by the foster care system.
This was believable and felt very real.The rest of the book didn't make a lot of sense to me.
This broken young woman is saved and loved by many people as she embarks into her new life as an emancipated adult.
I also felt that the use of foreshadowing was done with a very heavy hand.
A subtle hint would have been enough.This author shows promise but this novel is over-rated.
This book, The Language of Flowers by Vanessa Diffenbaugh, (whose name is similar to the dieffenbachia plant) had such a moving story line in telling the story of Victoria, from her abandonment at birth, through childhood abuse, to her orphanage experiences and her difficulties in forming and maintaining relationships.
The story moves back and forth in time and place within the span of her life which brings greater meaning to why she behaves the way she does with people she meets.
There was a personal relationship with the flowers Victoria worked with and it was evident with all those who became involved in her world.
Translation Time."I don't like red roses" = "I don't like love"."But I love yellow roses" = "But I love infidelity".o.ONow, I'm guessing that this wasn't actually the reason why the looked at me in horror because...um, well, not many people know that flowers have meanings behind them never mind what they were.
[FYI: My other two favourite flowers (Orchids and lilies) mean refined beauty and majesty respectively, so that's better :)]Anyway, I really really loved this book.
of the floral kind, about my feelings about this book.*clears throat*Dear Ms Diffenbaugh,I present you with a trilliam to represent modest beauty.
If any of my friends ( especially women friends), have missed reading this book....now is a good time to buy it.
Vanessa, the author, truly wrote a book about something she has direct experience with : The Foster Care SystemThe LANGUAGE of flowers Location - San Francisco.
Vanessa went to Standard- lived in the Bay Area ...
and is very familiar with the SF Bay Area It's excellent - Her first book.
My favorite book she wrote.
I started this book today (On Valentines Day)....and its already warming my heart!I read more than half of it already!
This book was to me, the language of growth, acceptance, and love and of coming home.
Between the tightly wrapped stems I’d packed velvety moss, barely visible, and I had sprinkled the bouquet with the purple and white petals of Grant’s Mexican sage.”This story was almost wrapped up too neatly, but it fit so well.
I hope some of you read it, it almost smells so good!This author has weaved such a knowledge of her craft, and I now have my own copy of ‘Victoria’s Dictionary of Flower’s’ in the back of the book.
Hard to put down book about mothers and daughters. I feel completely emotionally exhausted but I had to stay up and find out how everything was going to play out. If this book has escaped your attention, remedy that right away and pick it up!
I received this book from Goodreads Giveaways.After my recent horrendous experience with The Rose Labyrinth, which had me wanting to claw my eyes out after four sentences, it was wonderful to come across a novel with such a graceful writing style that was apparent from the first page. For eight years I dreamed of fire. Trees ignited as I passed them, oceans burned. The sugary smoke settled in my hair as I slept, the scent like a cloud left on my pillow as I rose. Even so, the moment my mattress
I received this book from Goodreads Giveaways.After my recent horrendous experience with The Rose Labyrinth, which had me wanting to claw my eyes out after four sentences, it was wonderful to come across a novel with such a graceful writing style that was apparent from the first page.
Even so, the moment my mattress started to burn, I bolted awake.
Victoria is fickle and nonsensical and acts completely out of character when it comes to love and sex.
(hide spoiler)] Basically, I was torn.It was like drinking a soda.
It was fizzy and exciting and interesting (even though I've read a lot like it).
It kind of had the look of a romance novel, so I hadn't tried it.
My friend Kathryn read and loved it, and that had landed it on my to-read list, but I hadn't gotten around to it.
It made for a very enjoyable vacation read!(view spoiler)[It was hard for me to get rid of the idea that this was a romance novel.
(hide spoiler)]Actual read date: 8 May 2017.
Date listed is date review is posted.
I don't really know what to write about this book. It was well-written, but I'm not sure I liked it. I didn't hate it, though. For me, it's one of those books that left me going, "Umm...OK...". I like the flower communication and all, but the whole story just sort of took some weird turns and ended up feeling like it wasn't going anywhere. And then it didn't. It just kind of ended. Meh.
4.75/5 edit: being made into movie  ♡ "for eight years i dreamed of fire. trees ignited as i passed them, oceans burned. the sugary smoke settled in my hair as i slept, the scent like a cloud left on my pillow as i rose. even so, the moment my mattress started to burn, i bolted awake. the sharp, chemical smell was nothing like the hazy syrup of my dreams; the two were as different as indian and carolina jasmine, separation and attachment. they could not be confused.standing in the middle of the
"for eight years i dreamed of fire.
trees ignited as i passed them, oceans burned.
even so, the moment my mattress started to burn, i bolted awake.
the sharp, chemical smell was nothing like the hazy syrup of my dreams; the two were as different as indian and carolina jasmine, separation and attachment.
watching them light, i felt a terror unequal to the size of the flickering flames, and for a paralyzing moment i was ten years old again, desperate and hopeful in a way i had never been before and would never be again."
Orphaned at a young age, Victoria has been moved to different foster homes, rebelling with angry outbursts and never in one place long enough to establish any solid relationships.
At the age of 10, she is taken in by a woman who teaches her the language of flowers and what each flower means.
Through these teachings, Victoria is able to start positively communicating.
It is through her passion of flowers she lands a job with a florist and is reunited with her turbulent past which she has difficulty reconciling her worthiness as a daughter, lover and mother.
I love flowers although my knowledge of them is fairly limited, and I really liked this story, where flowers played a central role.
The Language of Flowers is a story about Victoria, now a young woman, who was recently emancipated from the court system at 18.
In addition to the flowers themselves, Victoria’s foster mother, Elizabeth, and Elizabeth’s nephew, Grant, are also central characters in the story.
At times I thought Victoria was intentionally dislikable, and constantly engaging in self-destructive behavior.
Despite my dislike of Victoria for a fair portion of the book, I really enjoyed the story, although a bit darker than I was expecting.
I’m probably not the target audience for this book, but I’m not NOT the right audience.
Maybe I just wasn’t in the mood for another orphan story.
Seems like every book has an orphan in it these day.
Maybe it’s just one of those random trends, like every novel having “Girl” in the title nowadays.Anyway I wasn’t a fan of this one.
I enjoyed being educated on the language of flowers, but felt no sympathy for the characters.
I don’t need all my characters to be likable, but I don’t want them to be obnoxious and annoying.
But then, as destiny would have it, Victoria Jones lands on a flower and vineyard farm in California where the secrets of the Victorian Floriography of the plants is revealed to this girl who only understood the human language of rejection and unworthiness to be loved.
For the first time in her young life as a nine-year-old girl, Victoria's soul can be unlocked by a person who understood completely and spoke 'her' language.Through the language of flowers she reconnects to the world, learns to trust and forgive.
My abridged version of Victoria's dictionary as follows:Almond Blossom - Indiscretion,Azalea/Rhododenron - Fragile and ephemeral passion,Baby’s Breath - Everlasting love,Bougainvillea - PassionCamellia - My destiny is in your hands,Carnation, Pink - I will never forget youChrysanthemum - TruthDaffodil -New beginningsFuchsia - Humble loveGladioli - You pierce my heartHibiscus - Delicate beautyHyacinth, Purple - Please forgive meIris - MessageJonquil - DesireLavender - MistrustMagnolia - DignityMarigold - GriefPetunia - Your presence soothes meRose, Yellow - InfidelitySnowdrop - Consolation and hopeWisteria - WelcomeThe author includes many common and uncommon flowers in the story of Victoria's life and the people she meets.
A lovely inclusion at story's end is Victoria's Dictionary of Flowers.
Victoria has spent her life in and out of foster care homes, abused, neglected, unwanted.
The book flashes back to when she was in fosters homes, to when she went to live with Elizabeth at the age of 10, to her current day.
Later Victoria becomes a florist but not just a florist, she doesn't just make pretty arrangements, she makes arrangements with purpose, with a meaning, and her customers love her.
It is a beautiful story about how to connect to others, why it is important to have people in your life, to trust, to love.
However, that was the extent of my knowledge of the meaning of flowers , originating in the Victorian era - until I read this book .
We learn of Victoria's " gift " for helping people convey their feelings , hopes and thoughts , through flowers and we learn what happened when she was ten.The book, though, is about more than what the flowers mean .
It's also about family and forgiveness .I grew to love Victoria and Elizabeth , in spite of their mistakes because I was moved by the sad events in their lives that may have promoted these mistakes.
Here is a chance to define my rating system: five stars means that the book is fascinating, readable, attention holding, has a plot, well defined characters and is well written, lyrical or poetic even.
One star means I should not have read the book, why did I bother?
Three stars means that not only did I read the book, I liked it, but something was missing in order to extol its virtues.
Why was such a horrid, aggressive, uncommunicative, misfit like the "heroine" tolerated, let alone loved by people who hardly knew her (about one year of acquaintance)?
At 18 she emerges totally broken, she can’t even stand to be touched, a decidedly unlikeable woman with zero life skills.
She makes a few cringe worthy life choices yet I never felt disgust, emotionally damaged people sometimes do terrible things.
A nice touch the author’s choice in having people just as damaged as Victoria rescue her from her personal demons by teaching her the power of self forgiveness.
"Do you really think you’re the only human being alive who is unforgivably flawed?"Meanderings: Analytically I already knew that critical life skills, in particular socializing, must be learned during infancy.
How could Grant fall in love with Victoria immediately after seeing her for the first time since she was 10 years old?
How could Renata tell that Victoria would be a wonderful assistant after meeting this homeless looking creature just once.
Furthermore, wasn't it too contrived that Victoria found the perfect assistance in her former group home?
Plus, wasn't it too much of a coincidence that Renata's mother was a midwife?
Kept reading because it was a choice of my book group and it actually did not take too much time - considering I'd frequently skim mention of specific flowers.
Beautifully written story of love, redemption, forgiveness - giving and getting. For those who believe themselves to be unloved and unlovable and how they sometimes learn to love themselves despite everything they've been taught to believe of their unworthiness. Diffenbaugh certainly goes to extremes to make the main character as unworthy of the readers' belief in her as possible, as a child she is difficult at best. As an adult, she withdraws, but as her love of flowers grows, so does the vision of her potential to love and be loved.
It sold at auction for over 1 million in the US (!) ~ and for a six-figure sum in the UK and Commonwealth.The blurb gives an awesome synopsis, but I will add a bit to it: The story itself alternates between the present and the past, a chapter at a time.
It's a lovely combination of a slow-burning character arc kind of book, while at the same time building the plot in such a way that at the end of each chapter you want to keep following the story to see what happens next (there's a bundle of secrets, and some foreshadowing that lets you know all is not going to go well.)I am also a sucker for stories of redemption.
That idea was taken a step further during the Victorian era with "floriography," a way of communicating messages using flowers.
All of floriography features prominently in The Language of Flowers, a vaguely YA-ish first novel that’s both engrossing and problematic.
That happy time came when she was 9 and spent a year with Elizabeth, an eccentric vineyard owner who gave her a love of flowers and taught her their language.
In a way floriography is like a crude American Sign Language in that it’s a mode of communicating ideas using an entirely visual medium.
I had those studies in mind as I read Vanessa Diffenbaugh's "The Language of Flowers." Chiefly because, without empathy, I would have failed to fully appreciate its narrator, Victoria Jones.A foster kid, Jones is a tough girl who blew her chance at being adopted and so, for 18 years, has bounced from group home to group home with the worst of attitudes.
She finds a job with a local florist and, soon enough, her gift of deciphering the Victorian message of flowers becomes her ticket to a new life."Language" was a novel that captivated me for a couple reasons.
This is that book.
I know some readers have to 'like' or care about the characters to enjoy a book.
But the main character in this never felt fully fleshed out to me, I couldn't quite believe in her.
So the core of the story is a bit far-fetched and lots of things that occur seem unlikely, including how NICE everyone is to the main character who generally doesn't reciprocate.
I did want to know what happened enough to keep turning the pages but not enough to be rushing out for V.
Diffenbaugh's next book.
I'm a little conflicted about how to rate and review this one.
After finally being released on her 18th birthday she begins a new life working with a florist and begins to bloom a little herself.
I don't want to reveal too much about the plot but the closer I got to the end, the more uncomfortable I became with certain actions the character took.
I think the author did a good job drawing me into the story and the characters were interesting but I'm not happy with the ending although I think I'm supposed to be.
3  starsHad this not been a book club read I would probably never have started reading it. The basic storyline and book title just sounded too much like romantic chic lit. Sometimes those are nice but restrict myself to perhaps one or two books in this genre per year. But this was more Joshilyn Jackson than Nora RobertsThe chapters alternate between 9-year-old and 18-year-old Victoria and while time hopping in a novel can sometimes feel too jarring I think it worked very well here. Mainly becaus
Mainly because events happening in one timeline shows a parallel event in the other timeline, making them feel conjoined.The story revolves around Veronica, who now at 18 has aged out of the foster system and needs to make a life on her own.
She is ill equipped to deal with life, choosing to strike out at anyone who tries to help as its easier than trying to deal with her own feelings of loss and betrayal left over from the only foster mother that mattered.I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed the book even if I had to admit to myself that Victoria was not always the most likable character.
