https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537644.The_Norton_Anthology_of_Poetry
My riveting memory of such an event was in a freshman literature anthology, ground-breaking in its day.
It included Tom Thumb, had an entire section of songs and the prosody of songs, and many other things, which because they were unique, I tended to teach.
*M Ferguson joined my SAA seminar on Shakepseare and Oral Culture in Seattle, and is a supporter of my latest, Parodies Lost, on Tom Weiskel, Harold Bloom's favorite young colleague at Yale in the early 70's.
MF also knew Tom at Yale; and H Bloom wrote me, "I think of Tom every day.
This book is huge, so I had no intention of reading it cover to cover.
I just flipped through, reading a poem here, another one there.
I had some extra scholarship book money, so I bought myself a copy.
Unfortunately, my copy of this book disappeared many years ago.
I hope he still has this book and feels guilty whenever he sees it on his bookshelf.
I hope he's worried about what God thinks about him stealing the book.
(He tried to steal my cat to, but didn't get away with it.)Anyway, this book is chock full of poems.
More than four months in the reading. Worth every day.
At the end of the end of the 1960 film, The Time Machine, the hero, George Wells, returns to the future taking three books from his library with him.
Viewers are left to ponder which three books he takes - it's never revealed.
If it had been me, this would be one of the books.
Eighty bucks? Really? I need a Biblio-Fairy Godparent.
An anthology of endless delights and a celebration of the beauty of the English language.
In college my Great Books professor put this whole anthology on our 100 Greatest Books list.
This anthology was a real cop out on the professors' part - along with the complete works of William Shakespeare.
I started the anthology in 2005 when I was in music composition grad school in Baton Rouge Louisiana, August 18, 2012.
I read one poet a day, or up to three poems, both silently and out loud.
It is now February 23, 2012, and I read the last poet today.And I still know nothing about what's going on in contemporary poetry.
I'm marking as read although I didn't make it through even half of the poems while it formed the backbone of my reading list through college. Outrageously expensive (for an 18 year old student anyway) I borrowed a copy from a guy who had just graduated and gave it to his little brother who was starting college the year I finished up. My flatmate has a copy though, and I'm glad to have it around again for reference.
I'm reading through this -- what is probably my 4th or so copy -- different/updated edition, though. Seems like it gets bigger and bigger each year!Thing is, this is a damn good anthology far as anthologies go. Thing is, though, I prefer the original collections. Kinda like the difference between a "Best of" album and the original deal. Yada yada yada.
Covers the history and evolution of poetry in English, however I'd suggest the Norton Anthology of Post-Modern American Poetry as a supplement since this book really doesn't cover many of the influential poets writing today. However, English majors or anyone interested in poetry should have a copy of this book in their library.
The Norton Anthology is a rich resource, a great starting point for young readers and poets, and a great place to go to find new poets to read. That being said, it really is just a starting point. Moreover, it is limited to poetry written originally in English. You will want to supplement with international anthologies, consider The Ecco Anthology of International Poetry, for example.
What can I say - I love poetry
I may not have read it cover to cover but this is a pretty awesome and comprehensive anthology of poetry.
Essential
Brilliant amalgamation of so many different poets!
Professor Ferguson was my John Milton professor at UC Davis and I can say without a doubt, her work and commitment to the preservation of language is absolutely enthralling.
5/5 starsI mean, I'm not  finished  finished, but I'm done with it for my module at university and will continue to use it. Very helpful (albeit expensive).
Interesting collection of poems.
I read it from back to front in reverse chronological order and the segue from familiar English to Old English is really cool.
Whitman: 1,5,6,11 Song of Myself: 3 starsDickinson: 260 (288) : 3 Stars 320 (258) : 3 Stars 409 (303
An absolutely tremendous collection of English language poetry.
One of the greatest assets of this collection is that it contains several lengthy poems in their entirety, among them The Rape of the Lock and The Waste Land (both of which are among my personal favorites).
Although it seems to gloss over a few major figures (Poe for example) this collection remains the best single volume of English poetry I've ever seen.
The reason I refrain from giving a full five stars is that the running together of these various poems (in their small print) produces a fatigue of the eye.
That is why it is a good resource, but not the best read.
Covering several centuries of poetry it includes all the great lyrical poems and many more to entertain and educate the poetry lover.
It is a wonderful reference and companion for any literature lover -- with a chronological organization it is easy to dip into the collection from time to time.
In this book you can find some of your favorite poems, but more importantly you can expand your range of poetic interest, find new favorites, and learn about different approaches to the poetic art.
I read this as part of the Basic Program of Liberal Education at The University of Chicago and continue to enjoy the poems selected for this anthology.
My Great Uncle was a Literature Professer at the Junior College I attended.
Sophomore year, my English Dept.
mentor and Teacher was dear friends with him.
That is before his untimely death climbing with his sons on the Tetons due to equipment failure.
Upon hearing I was the great neice of his old friend, he choked up.
And I got an undeserved A in the class.
For I rarely attended class.
I love poetry.
I think some passions like the love of art, the mountains, and masterpieces of oral and written language come imprinted in our DNA.
Lots of poems of course. I still don't "get" poetry, but this certainly broadened by exposure and deepened my appreciate.[return]Predominant themes/recurring terms: the classics, other great poets (especially Donne, Jonson, and Shakespeare), heros, flowers, beauty, religion, death, childhood, love, sex, war, grass, spiders, and owls. Reading in chronological order forces one to wonder whether we have become that much more cynical over time or whether every age sees more inspiring poems as better in retrospect.
This is the best one volume anthology of poetry in English available today. Every editor will leave out works that a reader will consider essential and include works that the same reader will react with a "what the hell..." and the Norton fifth edition is no exception. But as a useful survey of poetry we know, work we might be interested in if we knew a bit about it and and poems that once skimmed can be ignored it is first rate.
Like The Bible, I haven't read every single word in this tome.
But I have read a heck of a lot of it over the years, most of it, since buying it in first-year Uni. Love it, refer to it constantly, it's probably the most-read book in my house.
I love having such a well-thumbed reference in the house, love knowing so many of the poems by heart and love having the words come to mind all the time in my head.
Love sharing it with my son now.
It will be in my house till the pages finally wear out.
This book is, as a first year lit student, my current bible. This anthology is a thorough education in poetry, and although I prefer reading prose, I am extremely happy to own this book. It takes you through the canon, from the early epics to contemporary. Perhaps impossible to read cover to cover, but it's perfect if you're hungry for poetry; just flick through it and you will stumble over a new jewel.
Ok so this is a pretty complete Anthology, all the poems my poetry professor refers to is in this monster beast. It is organized pretty well, I think. The paper is super thin, and the book weighs like ten pounds? I have to carry this big bad beast. They need a Kindle edition! Some of my favorite poets are not in here, but are in Introduction to Poetry? Minus 1 star.
The standard collection of British poetry used on university English Literature courses. It's range of poets and poetry is massive. It's notes are invaluable too. If you're looking for just one collection of poetry in the English language, the latest incarnation of this book has to be on your shelf (or in your e-reader!).
I've been a fiction writer since age 15. And terrified of poetry. I'm enjoying this overview of canonical names, and it's a great (if physically intimidating) place to meet the poets who resonate with me. The only shame is that my library's version, the 2nd ed., doesn't contain Basho or Mary Oliver--other poets whose work I recently met and admired.
