https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12374843-asa-mi-asami
One of the best books in Marathi Literature. Aah, the pleasure of reading books by P. L. Deshpande !!!
This is one of 'the' best book i have ever read in Marathi. The language and humor make you fall in love with Marathi all over again. And the ending sentence was the best part. It is meaningful if you read it directly as a sentence but it has this totally deep meaning if you read it after book is finished.
The first ever book I read of genre 'P.L. Deshpande'. His style of writing was a genre in itself. The finest ever humor author of Marathi language and I am thankful for having his books in my life.
Was a very good book. Though with Deshpande's comedy style of writing, he makes impact of morality of revolutionary transformations we have seen.
Simply Awesome !
Read it ever time I need a good laugh.
This one I liked when I read it. Pu La is the first Author I literally worshiped.
Every book of Pu La is a Gem. Real laughter one gets out of his every book. I have never ever came across such a humorous books, there is no competition to Pu La till date.
awesome book
Truly insightful,wonderfully funny and succintly emotional
Voilà !!! I always think that story writing can be made with or without any natural gifts. but, for Humor and Horror fiction, writer must have god gift/ natural talent. Pu.la.Deshpande is one of them. this is first time i read Pu. La Deshpande's book. and I am seriously feeling myself Omg!!! why I didn't read it before.. always busy reading in international novels. But, now this book changes everything. Looking forward for more :)(less)
A typical midle-class man's life is described vividly by P.L. Deshpande. Reading it will definitelyget the people to relate with themselves. Would recommend it to anyone who has been or lived a middle-class life inIndia especially Maharashtra.
Asa mi asami is a story of a lower middle class man who doesn't want to make any impression on the world and just live the normal life, but has to move on with the life and change with the world nonetheless... Good auto-bio with lots of humour...
the in depth portrayal of simplicity of life
shabdancha khel karnyacha hatkhanda fakt Pule nach jamato...
nothing
cgngf
He's Jolly good fellow!
Hillarious... Should I be laughing at the poor man's situations or sympathizing with him..
asads
Anytime read..whenever you feel low,just pick this book and a smile would spread on your place..Nicely put through from a common mans point of view.
Nice auto-bio of common-man detailing changes in his world with new generation (with lots of humor).a must read for Pu La fan
it the the I can't read in library. if read it in public place , people stares as I'm released from mental hospital..I just love this book. " "
Very humorusly tells the lessons of life
Fundoo, typical middle class family & its story in a comedy style
PuLa at his best!
