https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106585.The_Transmigration_of_Timothy_Archer
My first thoughts about The Transmigration of Timothy Archer was what a terrible shame, what a great loss that Philip K.
Of course, sadly, while Brown has basked in comet-like literary and financial success, Dick died after years in poverty just as the world at large was becoming ready for him, just as another visionary genius was about to raise the curtain on the world Phil had made.This is not so much pure science fiction as the more nebulous, but more quantitatively accurate term for PKDs work – speculative fiction.
His struggles with faith and his eventually giving up the cloth and going to great lengths, intellectual or otherwise, to discover the real truth about Jesus, has long term effects on everyone.That's not to say there isn't a lot of really strange things happening here, however, but they're all based on reality and scholarship and the deepest quest for meaning that anyone can or ought to strive.What if Christianity was a mushroom cult, that systematic drug use and hallucinations WAS the body of Christ?
He wanted to yank the reader left, and then yank the reader right, then trip the reader, so we can see what it is like to live in his head as he is trying to make sense of his own mortality and faith.I love that each of his three Valis/God/Gnostic books: Valis, The Divine Invasion, Transmigration of Timothy Archer are so different.
Jesus simply becomes a teacher representing a particular Jewish sect that ate and drank some kind of – well, whatever it was, the anokhi, and it made them immortal."PKD doubles down when Bishop Archer finds out that the anokhi is a psychedelic mushroom out of which the Zadokites made a broth and a bread.
The Transmigration of Timothy Archer: Explores madness, suicide, faith, the occultOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteraturePhilip K Dick’s Radio Free Albemuth (1985) and VALIS (1981) were strange but moving attempts to make sense of his bizarre religious experiences in 1974 when a hyper-rational alien mind contacted him via a pink laser from space.
Otherwise, you may be completely lost.The Transmigration of Timothy Archer (1982) is a much more controlled, almost mainstream novel narrated by a female protagonist in the first person (perhaps the only example in PKD’s oeuvre?) about the complex relationships between an eccentric but extremely erudite Catholic Bishop named Timothy Archer, his lover Kirsten Lundborg, her schizophrenic son Bill, the Bishop’s son Jeff Archer, and his wife Angel Archer.
That is only to say that it is not really a part of the flow of immediately prior P.K.Dick works represented by VALIS, A Scanner Darkly, Divine Invasions etc but a really good straight literary novel reflecting Dick's philosophical ideas but in no way a genre work.
In this non-genre setting, the narrator discusses this in regard to herself, if after all the losses suffered she has been reduced to a machine, the humanity having been ground out of her by events.
see Dick. See Dick run. See Dick write about the sacred quest to escape one's body and transcend the narrow human perception of experience through the ongoing search for the essential logos via the ingestion of psychedelic mushrooms while retracing the steps of the Christ. (pant)
My guess is because it was too mainstream and not enough far-out weird stuff.
So even though a lot of the religious stuff bored me (mostly because a lot of it is just over my head), the story itself with Angel, Tim, and all the other characters, did not fill in the rest of story with the wacky dialogue and interactions that I enjoyed in the previous two books.
Yeah, there were some great scenes, but just not enough to pull the book as a whole up to a level that I fully enjoyed.So, I'm hovering around 2.5 stars.
Mostly 2 stars, with periodic 3 star scenes.
(Dick’s intended third part of the trilogy, The Owl in Daylight, never progressed beyond a rough outline.) It is classed as being both a postmodern and philosophical novel which Dick was quoted as saying “is in no way science fiction.” Interestingly, his agent had a different interpretation of the book:“in your science fiction they drive things called flobbles and quibbles, and in this one they drive Hondas — but it’s still essentially a science fiction novel.
It is sad that he didn’t live to see it.Timothy Archer is a different kind of book to both VALIS and The Divine Invasion.
This book feels more like Valis than it does The Divine Invasion. Like the first volume of the trilogy, it is grounded in the here and now, the supernatural elements are in the fringes of the story rather than in your face, and it feels like a very personal work.It is also a great early novel about Gnosticism and obviously had a lot of research put into its development. Also, even though it comes last in the trilogy, I feel that this book is probably the most accessible of the three.
It is like information theory; it is noise driving out signal. But it is noise posing as signal so you do not even recognize it as noise. The intelligence agencies call it disinformation, something the Soviet Bloc relies on heavily. If you can float enough disinformation into circulation you will totally abolish everyone's contact with reality, probably your own included.Putin seeks religious help to quell Russian dissent
Easier to pay attention to than The Divine Invasion, but still heavy on the Sunday School, I find myself missing the mind-trip of the previous novels. PKD seems to handle women better as first-person female protags. The best parts are when Angel philosophizes about books and records.
dick's narrator angel archer is one of his most resonant, matter-of-fact, and yes, human.
angel is a comfortable narrator: she guides us through the big ideas and concepts about life, and after life, and death and ancient texts easily that are spun out by dick; she is our virgil, as he references and echoes dante's commedia throughout this work.
dick embeds these ideas in a further layer: his relationship with the real-life bishop james pike, and some of the incidents of his real life are spun into the title character timothy archer, and it is through him the plot that drives the pedagogy adheres.
I must have read the bios on Wikipedia of at least a dozen philosophers and religious leaders mentioned in this book.I definitely get the sense that this one was a highly personal writing experience for Mr. Dick, considering that this book was influenced by his friendship with Bishop Pike.
Knowing the story of Bishop Pike, and Dick's own "religious experiences", I felt this book was a very touching tribute to a friend and a great insight into one of the great oddballs of 20th century Sci-Fi.
PDK's swan song, as it turned out. It is also his most life-affirming book he ever wrote. Part biographical, part literary fiction and part paranormal mystery and 100% Masterpiece, this book is told from the perspective of a woman, something Dick had never done before. That he pulls it off so easily is a testament to the narrative powers that Dick possessed. Sadly, he died weeks after completing this outstanding book. The plot twist is particularly to die for.
Dick novel?
Wait a minute.
Dick train are fictional characters known as Philip K.
Dick didn't make his name on his characters, but Angel Archer is definitely one of his more memorable protagonists.
Maybe it's only because of the "OMG a woman with an interior life in a Philip K.
Dick novel" factor, but look.
Here, Timothy theories reminiscent of VALIS' gnosticism and devotes his life to proving them, sacrificing his relationship with a troubled family and position in the church at their expense; Angel frequently warns him of his actions' consequences, but her warnings in vain.
I'll tell you what, though - after how messy the Divine Invasion was, I could've gotten used to a few more novels like this.
This novel is based on a real person, Bishop James Pike, episcopal Bishop of California in the 1960's. Pike and Dick were friends. The story of Pike is quite bizarre and PKD has rendered it in novel form. This is likely why this novel has a different vibe than his other ones.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Pike
I was surprised by the tone of the book, which is not typical for Dick, when I started reading.
Unlike Horselover Fat in VALIS, who is also a stand-in for Dick the way Angel is in this novel, Angel is honest with the reader.
There is no screwing around with the truth the way Horselover Fat does.
But Angel is not honest with herself, and this is where the challenge to the reader comes in.
Dick enlists every reader as an amateur psychoanalyst, trying to help save Angel from her own flaws, though even the trained psychoanalysts Angel is seeing cannot save her.
This book is a critique directed against the over-educated and those who find identity in books.
Angel's life is education without experience.
Angel's vast education makes her view reality with an "its all been done before" attitude.
Such a mindset devalues the beauty of life.
It is about a woman who was ruined by her education.
The Bishop returned like Jesus to redeem Angel, his friend.
The book allows optimistic readers to hope that when Bill moves in with her she will finally recognize the Bishop in him.
I do not agree with the reader who said this is a positive ending.
The common thread between Valis and Transmigration is that someone is confronted with the reality of the supernatural, life after death, the resurrection, and they turn their back on it.
The major problem in Transmigration is the coldness of the narrator.
It sucks to finish reading this book, because even when confronted with everything she has witnessed Angel Archer is still cold, impersonal, dead inside.
I mean this woman is presented with evidence enough to canonize this man, but she continues on with her life, blindly.
Three stars, because I hated the narrator.
This is a challenging, yet compelling third book of the VALIS trilogy, although it stands alone as a novel. It's an empowering and intellectual glimpse into the interpretation of madness, theology and philosophical illusion. Mind twisting, thought provoking and at times disturbing; the obsession with God and metaphysics, schizophrenia and suicide, and the characters themselves drove this book for me and it has definitely made me think and perceive intellect in a new way. Absolutely fantastic......
This, PKD's 'swan song' of the post-pulp master, is a triumph. A perfect novel. Perhaps there is a little too much theology for most reader`s taste, but it is funny, intelligent and utterly thought provoking. By this time, he had fully reached his abilities, which makes this the perfect choice as the final PKD novel to read. So unfortunate it is not to know what he would have come up with had he lived a few decades longer.
This, PKD's 'swan song' of the post-pulp master, is a triumph. A perfect novel. Perhaps there is a little too much theology for most reader`s taste, but it is funny, intelligent and utterly thought provoking. By this time, he had fully reached his abilities, which makes this the perfect choice as the final PKD novel to read. So unfortunate it is not to know what he would have come up with had he lived a few decades longer.
One of my very favorite books, since way back when I first read it in 97 or 98. Not really "sci-fi", and although it's technically the third book in the Valis trilogy, you don't need to read the others to read this, and there aren't any spoilers for the first two books, it's standalone. Deals with a lot of the emotions around people you love dying.
This is much the same problem I had with VALIS, though here it feels much less messy-- VALIS felt as though Dick, overloaded with ideas, feelings of connection, fear, slapped together a novel to try and make sense of what he was thinking, feeling.
I don't know if it's the right word, but it comes close to something.It is narrated by one of his most frustrating characters-- I'm trying to think of other characters who are as willfully blind as Angel Archer; maybe Joe Chip-- who is also his most brilliant creation.
Near the end of the book it becomes clear that the intuition many readers have about Angel Archer, that she is brilliant, "satanic", but ultimately self-destructive, myopic, is not unfounded.
romanı okurken karakterlerin yaşadığı tüm kafa karışıklıklarının, gel-gitlerin aslında pkd'nin bizzat yaşadığı şeyler olduğunu bilmek insanı üzüyor.
romanın sonlarına doğru bir bölüm var, aslında hepimizin bir makine olduğu ile ilgili.
bu bölüm, daha geçenlerde bitirdiğim kuklanın ruhu adlı kitapta neden pkd ile ilgili bir bölüm olduğunu da gayet iyi açıklıyor.
romanın bir yerlerinde evrenin kitap, bizim de okuryazarlar olduğumuz saptaması çok güzel, kelimelere, alıntılara, metinlere gömülü yaşamanın trajik yanı da kaçınılmazlığı da gayet başarılı işlenmiş.
nihayetinde pkd kadar "gerçekliğin doğası"na yaklaşabilen başka bir yazar tanımıyorum bu roman da bunun güzel bir ispatı.
illallah edenler için metnin gayet "temiz" olduğunu ekleyelim )
the religious stuff gets in the way for me - i see how important it is to the ideas in these books, but i have a pretty strong aversion to religious dogma, so the sections where that material is in play has a way of bogging things down.i'm glad i read the trilogy and it's possible that i'm a little sad that this will be my last PKD novel for a while, i have read 16 of the novels since january, and it's time to take a break.
Hippies velhos de ressaca da contra-cultura; gurus new age obesos; uso de barbitúricos, anti-depressivos e algumas outras drogas mais leves; seitas (pré)-cristãs; religiosidade e questionamentos sobre Deus; ressureição; bodhisattvas; suicídio, esquizofrenia e mais outras patologias psicológicas. E no fundo de tudo isso o livro mais pessoal que eu li do Phillip K dick. Apesar da narrativa ao redor da protagonista e o seu círculo familiar, o romance acaba sendo mais um suporte para pequenas reflexões costuradas por uma jornada de auto-conhecimento. A ser lido aos poucos.
Cuando le conté a mi hermano que estaba leyendo este libro lo primero que me preguntó era si habia leído los otros antes. Aún no me queda claro cuáles otros ni por qué habría que leerlos antes. El libro me atrapó fácil, partiendo porque lo narra un personaje femenino. Angel, además de ser adicta a las metáforas es una mujer culta, estudiosa, profesional y pasa que es nuera del obispo Timothy Archer. Ella narra, cavila y construye en parte la transmigración de Tim. Tim es un hombre admirable, pero sin Angel su existencia sólo sería breve y acelerada.
This is a brilliant series of novels woven together as a trilogy with a non-apparent thread. Full of compassion, spirituality, madness, humor, the eerie, and truly prophetic technology, this is science fiction I can unapologetically embrace. I'm embarrassed to have never read them earlier, but I don't think I had the requisite philosophical, literary, religious and current technology experiences to fully appreciate them. Yet they are a feast entirely consumed in a couple sittings. Each part of the trilogy is little more than 200 pages, each loaded with intellect and feeling.
Transmigration is the end point of Dick’s work on character and his maturing as a writer, from The Man in the High Castle (an earlier work, but he spent much longer on it than his other novels of the period, and you can really tell), to Do Androids Dream?, to A Scanner Darkly.
Dick’s concerns were always very human, there just weren’t always humans to be concerned about, but you can see that in this thread of novels that Dick did work on developing his characters, on making them more than mouthpieces.
Great Typical P.K Dick.
