https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34862885-portrait-of-a-murderer
Adrian Gray, a country gentleman, will be murdered by one of his six children on Christmas Eve, 1931.
Olivia is married to unscrupulous financier, Eustace Moore.
Moore is Adrian's financial adviser.
Ruth's marriage to lawyer Miles Avery showed promise.
The reader having witnessed the criminal act follows the murderer's attempt to deflect the blame.
Can the murderer concoct a well thought out plan before the body is discovered on Christmas Day?"Portrait of a Murderer" by Anne Meredith is a unique kind of mystery.
We are privy to the murder and now follow the thinking involved in self-preservation as the murderer sets the stage to implicate a different family member.
On the other hand, if like me you run with gusto in the opposite direction from heart-warming tales of the resilience of the human spirit and happy families where all value each other’s individuality, stick around, this novel is just right for you.So .
Another daughter-in-law, Laura, married to Richard, rounds out the set and becomes one of my favorite characters.Here’s where the similarity to other mysteries ends.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: "Adrian Gray was born in May 1862 and met his death through violence, at the hands of one of his own children, at Christmas, 1931." Thus begins a classic crime novel published in 1933, a riveting portrait of the psychology of a murderer.
What it is, is a portrait of a family, none of whom particularly like one another, and what happens when one of them, who we know is not guilty, is charged with murder.
'Anne Meredith was a pseudonym of Lucy Beatrice Malleson (1899-1973) who is best known as the author of the Arthur Crook series of detective novels published under the name of Anthony Gilbert.
Certainly a very unusual mystery. We know the murderer, more of a Columbo style mystery. Incredibly anti-Semitic showing just how prevalent hatred of Jews was in the 1930ies. Hard to read in places for this aspect alone. If you are looking for a whodunnit this is not the one to go for. Ok, amusing in places, but leaving a tad of an unpleasant after taste.
1931 ist er erstmals erschienen und gerade das fand ich sehr faszinierend, einen direkten Einblick zu bekommen, wie die Gesellschaft und die Beziehungen zwischen den Menschen damals "funktioniert" haben - und zwar nicht rückblickend, sondern aus erster Hand.Gegliedert ist das Buch in sieben Teile - am Anfang werden die einzelnen Personen genauer unter die Lupe genommen, das heißt, die Kinder von Adrian Gray, dem Ermordeten, denn sie sind es, die schließlich unter Verdacht stehen werden, den alten Mann umgebracht zu haben.
In the bleak midwinter...Every Christmas, the Gray family gather at the home of their elderly father, Adrian Gray – a rather unpleasant, miserly sort of man who has produced an equally unpleasant bunch of children on the whole.
This Christmas, in 1931, only a couple of the children are there out of any feelings of affection – most are trying to screw money out of the old man.
To be fair, though Eustace comes off worst, none of Meredith's characters are shown in a wholly shining light.There's quite a lot of moral ambiguity in how the story plays out and again I felt only some of this was intentional, while the rest felt like Meredith's own prejudices peeping through.
And, even though I knew the perpetrator, I still thoroughly enjoyed watching to see if the killer would get away with the crime, and the book provides a great window into the mind of a murderer.Further, Meredith does an amazing job with keeping what could have easily fallen into a cliché: a 70-year-old patriarch reunites the family for Christmas at the old homestead and one of the six children or their spouses takes advantage to slay the old dragon.
This is a novel primarily interested in portraying characters. And rarely have I encountered a less likable batch of people (or people I wish could escape from those people). The murderer's identity is revealed halfway through, and the rest is a matter of bringing home evidence to the culprit.Content note: very anti-Semitic.
Although the beginning of the book did not sound very promising, I ended up enjoying this mystery very much. It is not a typical whodunnit. Instead you have the opportunity to delve into the murderer's mind. It was surprisingly good! Also, it was a Christmas crime story - what could be better?!
However it does mean that for people like me who don’t particularly enjoy the thought of anyone going unpunished, especially for murder, it makes the read a little bit more traumatic than I expect the author intended.Anyway back to the story.
We have a patriarch Adrian Grey, an elderly and not particularly nice man, who has his children to stay for Christmas 1931.
There are six children in all, and some of them have bought their partners, and although a grand house like King Poplars should have room enough for them all to rub along nicely, it appears not.
Thank you to NetGalley and Poisoned Pen Press for a digital galley of this novel.This novel written in 1933 is not so much a mystery as a psychological look at a murderer and the reasons for the crime.
The police presence happens at about the halfway point and from this point the book held my attention so I read the last half with more interest than the first.
If you prefer to know the psychological reasoning behind the crime of murder, plus the subsequent justification for what was done you might want to give this one a try.
Firmly set during the Christmas period, A Portrait of a Murderer is more Christmassy than my last so-called Christmas mystery, but really it isn’t very Christmassy at all.
Christmas is merely the device which brings people together, almost all of whom are absolutely horrid.
I’ve always been a fan of TV detective Columbo, so I enjoy mysteries that use this device.“”Adrian Gray was born in May 1862 and met his death through violence, at the hands of one of his own children, at Christmas, 1931.
I have read nearly all of them and in many ways find this the most difficult to review.The plot is, on the surface, simple.Adrian Gray is murdered in the library of his house, King’s Poplars, deep in the heart of Grebeshire, at Christmas.
The only jarring note in her pen portraits is the casual anti-Semitism, so typical of this period, and so unacceptable.I cannot say I enjoyed reading this book although it was undoubtedly compelling.The writing is excellent and the concept is brilliantly carried through.Avid readers of Golden Age British detection might like to compare this with Christie’s 1938 novel, “Hercule Poirot’s Christmas”.
This was far from the light, cosy Christmas mystery I thought it was going to be. It's dark and complex, the language rich--almost Dickensian, dare I say, but minus the humour in this context. I appreciate that it looks at how psychological and social factors shape a family, drawing attention to how siblings come to occupy different class positions and are strangers to one another.
Interesting inverted mystery but not my cup of tea. Full review at classicmystery.wordpress.com
3.5 stars
We see what the killer does afterwards to cover up their tracks and frame a different family member and what they do once the murder is discovered.And in these parts, the book really shines because it doesn’t portray this as a black-or-white situation.
Most killers are exactly like the one in this book: a worse person than the average but it’s still easy to see that if one or two things had gone differently they would have gone through life as a bad person who never killed anybody.There are still things that are not great about this book.
I've made it an annual tradition to read one of the British Library Crime Classics (BLCC) during the holiday period and to try to make it a season appropriate selection as well.
The actual reading was disappointing though as the seasonal period is glossed over quite quickly and is only an excuse to gather a number of suspects under the same roof for Christmas Eve. The unique feature of the book is that the murderer is revealed very early in the process and we are able to follow their interior thoughts and exterior actions before, during and after the crime.
This really wasn't much of a mystery.
It's more of a charcter study.
The father dies.
One of his children committed the murder.
We know which one it was and how it was done.
He's just trying to hide it from his siblings.
I really disliked the entire family.
It simply did not resonate well with me; however, persons who like to see character drive the story may enjoy it.
Just because the murder happened at Christmas when the family gathered does not make it a "Christmas" story.
This one could occur at a family reunion any other time of the year.
This is a very well written suspenseful book.
While it is an inverted mystery, it’s not solely from the murderer’s perspective.
Instead, we get glimpses the crime from those most involved.
It starts out with a lengthy introduction to the most prominent characters.
Then with startling abruptness, the crime is committed.
There aren’t really any surprises.
Right from the first, you know what will eventually bring him down, but who the actually catches him will be a surprise.
I thought the ending redeemed the whole book.
While several characters are having affairs, and others are mentioned it is very discreet and not really promoted.
The reader knows exactly who it is, but will get to watch the entire family respond to the tragedy and only one person will have conscience enough to pursue the truth instead of watching an unlikable man swing whether it is his crime or not.In some ways, this reads like a dramatic play instead of a normal mystery novel.
In many crime novels, the exposition can be my favourite part, because I love having the portrayal of several characters and trying to figure out who is most likely to commit murder, whether I'm proven right or wrong in the end.
Those types of mysteries aren't my favourite though, but it was a nice change, for once.
It had anti-Semitic comments at times, which showed all the more how Jews were perceived in the 1930s, so be weary of it going into it.I really like the idea of the British Library Crime Classics Collection, it's perfect to discover mystery authors who aren't as known today and I'll keep an eye out for other titles of this collection in the future.
This was quite different from most murder tales.
Right up front in the first paragraph we know who is murdered.
We are shown the murder and who did it.
Lots of characters and descriptions and getting to know them and the family dynamics and this family is not a pleasant family.
But I hung in there, mostly because Tracy @ Bitter Tea and Mystery reviewed it right about that time and her review spurred me on.It really was a character study with a murder thrown in.
And in the end there were, as Tracy said, redeeming qualities to some of the characters.
The writing is such that the reader almost immediately makes judgement on the characters, there are characters that you don’t want to be the murderer because you like them, others you hope will be the one to commit the crime because the reverse is true.This book is very much about the murderer as opposed to the victim.
We see the reasoning behind the crime, the steps the perpetrator takes to evade justice and the ramifications for both the killer and the family as a result of the demise of Gray.This is a short novel but the reader does not feel cheated of a story.
But will the police and the siblings work it out?The characters are all very unlikable and I love that about this book.
The only human light in the story is daughter Ruth and her husband Miles, who are considered unambitious and uninteresting by the other siblings, but have something that none of the others have; love and happiness.I love the author’s descriptions of the people themselves and their surroundings.
You feel like you know the characters so well by the end of it.I can’t believe I had never heard about this book before.
"Adrian Gray was born in May 1862 and met his death through violence, at the hands of one of his own children, at Christmas, 1931"Thus begins Anne Meredith’s murder mystery, Portrait of a Murderer: A Christmas Crime Story.
The last part of the novel is dedicated to how another member of the family, not totally convinced of the real murderer’s innocence and the framed man’s guilt, with the accidental help from a former servant of Adrian Gray’s manor, helps solve the mystery by identifying the real murderer.Portrait of a Murderer is less about who did the actual crime than why it was done and how the murderer felt about it afterwards.
I have been a lover of Christmas Crime novels for many a year and was delighted when the British Library Publishing sent me a copy of Portrait of a Murderer by Anne Meredith.
It is Christmas 1931 and like every Christmas the Gray family gather to celebrate at the home of their father Adrian Gray a rather unlikeable fellow, mind you his offspring are not that pleasant either.
If you are being forced to attend a family Christmas when you would rather not, then get a copy of this book and settle down with a glass and the tin of chocolates and enjoy Portrait of a Murderer.
The setting at Christmas seems to be purely because this family don’t get on and it was only at Christmas that they gathered together at the Gray family home.It begins slowly and I was beginning to wonder if I wanted to finish the book, but I found I was thinking about it when I wasn’t reading and wondering whether the plan would work.
Will the wrong person be convicted or will justice be done?It’s an excellent character study, told in the first person by the murderer and in the third person by the other characters.I was also fascinated by the picture Meredith paints of the society and culture of the 1930s.
It's rare for me to drag on my reading time whenever I pick up any titles from the British Library Crime Classics series.
The book is divided into few sections:1- The introduction of a family with its backgrounds and that of each family members2- The murderer's own narration of the crime from start to finish 3- The reactions and thoughts of each family member after the crime is discovered, the investigation, the trial, and the aftermaths4- The perpetrator's final fate A through and thought-out plot but way too much study of human nature and their inner struggles.
"Portrait of a Murderer" would make a great mystery/crime novel if reading it with the intention of understanding the novel is about the "portrayal of character and social comment" as noted in the introduction by editor Martin Edwards.
Anne Meredith was a best selling crime writer and her books have been long out of print until now.Meredith has an old school writing style which at times for the modern reader can seem over written and a bit flowery.
If you read this as a museum piece of its time, then one should be able to overlook this.Overall, this is an excellent novel and one that will hopefully help readers rediscover a classic mystery crime writer and will make more of her work to be released.
