https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375369.The_Two_Cultures
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Shakespeare vs Thermodynamics: "The Two Cultures" by C.
P. Snow(original review, 1993)As a maths and physics graduate, I observe that most compilers of the best books of all-time lists are, self-evidently, not from my side of the cultural divide.
P. Snow's "The Two Cultures" and "The Scientific Revolution", not to mention Arthur Koestler's "The Sleepwalkers" (a masterly history of how mankind has viewed, and developed ideas about, the universe) - and then put them on the lists, as they deserve to be there IMO.
I read this (the original, published in 1959) in college.
It was assigned reading.
The poles still exist today, but are even less evident among the many other polarizations in current culture: economic, religious, political and ethnic.From the vantage point of fifty years of actual observation, the polarizations persist not because they are natural but because they are convenient.
We make jokes about them: "There are two types of people; ..." And yet it also seems we ignore them, as we actually live our lives.
And people straddle divides every day, even as they may identify with this or that community.
Another fine selection from Canto's outstanding line of Cambridge Publishing reprints, CP Snow's seminal essay is referenced widely enough -- and simply enough grokked -- that one might consider it, as Calvino wrote, with "Books Everyone Else Has Read and So It's As If You've Read Them, Too". It's short and absolutely worth your time, with an excellent critical essay introducing the polemic itself (noting especially the litotic third taxon of Snow's partitioning).
I'm not even entirely sure that the difference in cultures was even his main POINT, but it's hard to tell between all of the rambling asides he makes.This edition also contains the sequel to the original lecture, where he revisits his initial thoughts in the context of the various criticisms he's received, which turns into an even less coherent jumble of words than the first one.If the concept interests you in the first place, it's worth reading the original lecture, just to see what the big deal is all about.
I am surprised this work is not more a part of the liberal arts college curriculum; it’s clearly written, pretty short, and addresses a very interesting, relevant issue – the split between literary intellectuals and scientific intellectuals. These two groups, each comprised of many very smart people, seem to exist largely in a state of mutual incomprehension (and sometimes mistrust, even scorn).For so many scientists, their literary experience is limited to “a bit of Dickens.” In the literary culture, most are completely unaware of the Second Law of Thermodynamics – the scientific equivalent to: “Have you read Shakespeare?”……
The main idea, that scholars who dwell in the humanities and those who specialise in scientific subjects are far from understanding each other, is both obvious and interesting.
Snow talks (most of the time in circles, by the way) about the dangers of scholars barely communicating, but in hindsight I barely can recall his main ideas.
There are also some interesting ideas about how science could end world's hunger and suffering, but they're so tremendously naive they could make anyone laugh.
For example, he mentions that the world couldn't be divided into poor and rich people by the year 2000, for it was already known how fortunes were made.
After understanding the historical background of the lecture, it is obvious that Snow was coming from a deeply personal place and did indeed view literary elites as 'the enemy,' not just of scientists, but of innovation.
Yet, just these kinds of thoughts, coupled with Snow's personal history with England's class and educational systems are the basis for his attack on the literary world.that being said, his suggestions for moving forward by educating the world at large in science is a noble one, I just don't understand why he has to take literature down with him!
the author (who was some sort of a scientist and also some sort of a literary figure) examines what he sees to be the growing divide between the scientific community and the humanities. it's not that it's dated, because the divide is still there, but his approach to the problem seems (fifty years on) a little naive and maybe a bit alarmist. it would be kind of nice if educated people took some kind of interest in science and mathematics, though. and nothing frustrates me more than scientists and mathematicians who refuse to look beyond their own fields.
The culture of science and the culture of humanities cannot be united because they belong to two entirely different rivers. So there is a growing misunderstanding between the people of these two cultures. This book can be better understood if it is read after reading the novels 'The Masters' and 'The Affair' written by C.P.Snow. If you don't have that much time, you can also go for the dramatized versions of them which are shorter.
Fascinating essay about the book by Peter Dizikes: http://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/22/boo... who discusses whether a "third culture" (evolutionary biologists, psychologists and neurscientists) is "superseding literary artists in their ability to 'shape the thoughts of their generation.' "
Delightful quick autobiographical read details Snow's mutually exclusive circles of literary and scientific friends. I notice much the same in my own life. I don't meet many mathematicians, scientists or technicians who are into poetry or literature generally.
I was hoping for something that laid out different intellectual frames of thinking, the kind you’ll find in James Turner’s book Philology: The Forgotten Origins of the Modern Humanities.No such landscape here.Now, to his credit, in his essay three years later (“The Two Cultures: A Second Look”), Snow admits that describing the two cultures wasn’t really his goal—it was about income inequality: “Before I wrote the lecture I thought of calling it ‘The Rich and the Poor’, and I rather wish I hadn’t changed my mind.”And further to his credit, he says there’s nothing original to his thoughts, and he downplays any significance to his words except that they happened to come at a time when people wanted to hear about… two cultures.
Snow delivered 7 May 1959 a lecture at Cambridge: "The Two cultures and the scientific revolution", and immediately after a book was printed.
The book I am talking about here is a second and expanded version, "The Two Cultures: A Second Look".The book has an introduction by Stefan Collini, almost the same lenght than Snow's text.
However, in the originial lecture he was isolating only one small corner of the situation: he was talking primarily to educators and those being educated.
Besides, Snow considers the situation in England, contrasting mainly with those of the United States and of the U.S.S.R.
Five stars because this is a classic example of a common argument: as knowledge and knowledge production has become more and more specialized, there is an unbridgeable gulf between the arts and humanities on one side and the sciences on the other.
One reason why politics is so shrill in the United States today is that activists are unable to access the policy making machinery of government without engineering public moral outrage.
Government is now exceedingly technocratic and beholden to the social science outlook that unless an activist can master the literature in a given policy area, they are excluded from debate.
Going beyond the topic of the two cultures, The Rede Lecture tries to identify where the current educational system was failing: In leading to the intellectual oportunity loss directly attributable to the divide between arts and sciences (the two cultures), in the inability to properly invest on productive industry, and in the inability to educate a workforce needed to help reduce the gap between poor and rich countries.
The industrial-scientific revolution, and the agricultural revolution "are the only qualitative changes in social living that men have ever known." Neither the traditional culture nor the scientists listenend to the needs to train people in science, particularly applied science.
He seems a bit more intersectional in his disciplines at the end of the book, but comes off as a STEM lord because to him, it's just the most logical solution.
I would argue that there are far more types of people than what he considers the two cultures: Literary scholars and scientists, and he's very clearly biased in some of his thoughts (scientists don't see race....LOL).
But there is a persistent population that tries to reject progress and I agree with the general point that nobody wants to live in the past unless you're wealthy and are ok with a healthy dose of child death.

"The Two Cultures" is a hghly engaging inquiry into the division between the humanities and the sciences and the deletrious effect on education and society it could continue to have if not properly addressed. Despite [the lecture] being given some 60 years ago, it maintains its relevance today and is perhaps even more thought-provoking now that the pendulum seems to have swung dramatically from the emphasis on the humanities over the sciences, which Snow observed, to the opposite. I am shocked that this wasn't assigned reading for me at some pont in high school or in college.
I'm actually reading the first version published in 1959 (55 pages). It might be influential once, but it has lost it's importance now I think. Not that the question it wants to answer has been solved, but the suggestion, analysis and problematization seems out of era. It is a good read to survey how we have fared in the last 60 years, but no more than that. Perhaps the 1993 version is much better.
I wanted to like this lecture more than I did; the premise is near and dear to my heart. However, his broad assertions on the two cultures are completely anecdotal, the analysis of the Russian, English, and American education systems is inconclusive, and the relationship between the essential culture divide to rich and poor nations is obtuse. The foundation of this brief lecture makes it worth reading, even if it does fall short on the details.
The two cultures refers to the divide between scientists and literary intellectuals. Snow's solution lies in education.The main point is very important and still relevant, but I don't think you need to read the whole book to get it. WIkipedia probably suffices https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Two...
Snow's lecture about the divide between the humanities and the scientific at the university level and more generally in society. He speaks against the backdrop of the Cold War and the Space Race. His insights into the fact the undeveloped world was going to demand moving forward was maybe the most underappreciated portion of his lecture.
Read this one after my freshman year of college, due to some of my professors talked about the author pointing out the divide between the scientific and literary communities. So when this paperback edition came out and I came across it, I bought it and read it. Although I can't claim any expertise on the subject, I don't know that the divide has gotten better since then; maybe even worsened.
This was a startling read, but true to what we all can observe in the world of work and education. Snow supports his beliefs and sees a need for immediate action if we are to rescue a safe and sound future.
Read is in college. Was shocked that our society was so fractured. (That's probably why I was assigned it.) Has informed my vision of America since.Sadly, America seems even more disintegrated fifty years later and falling apart faster.
Somewhat underwhelming.
"[A]fter a few thousand Atlantic miles, one found Greenwich Village talking precisely the same language as Chelsea, and both having about as much communication with M.I.T. as though the scientists spoke nothing but Tibetan." (10)"[T]he dialectic is a dangerous process. Attempts to divide anything into two ought to be regarded with much suspicion." (15)"It is in this tiny extension of the personality, it is in this seizing on the possibilities of hope, that we become more fully human." (72)
Foi escrito em 1959, o que por um lado torna o manuscrito interessante de um ponto de vista histórico (mostrando a forma como alguém pensava em meados do século passado), mas por outro desvaloriza-o um pouco, por a discussão já não se coadunar bem aos tempos actuais.
Snow discute obviamente a forma como tornar essas duas culturas mais unidas, mas não vai além de propor que o sistema de Ensino deve sofrer uma reforma (refere-se ao sistema britânico).
Além disto, creio que o desenvolvimento tecnológico dos países ricos ultrapassou largamente as expectativas do Snow, o que, para mim, justifica também o porquê de continuar a haver uma tão grande diferença entre os países ricos e os pobres.
As a novelist, he was frequently in the company of artistic, modern-day "Luddites." The ignorance of each group, each culture, with respect to the body of work and modes of thinking of the other frequently astounded him.In his 1959 lecture at the University of Cambridge, Snow highlighted this disconnect in an at once lightly comic and deeply serious way.
He goes on to trumpet the development of both cultures as the key to exploiting the scientific revolution and the way to bring the underdeveloped third world into the fold of the modern well-to-do.Though his address was given half a century ago, many of Snow's suggestions are still applicable today.
As he himself recognized in "A second look", he had most probably only the merit of pointing out the matter at the right time and eventually place (Cambridge).
This gap causes bad uncommunicability between the parties, with the former essentially advocating the title itself of intellectuals only for themselves while being almost completely ignorant even of the second law of thermodynamics (compared, on the other side, to a fundamental like Shakespeare) and ignoring the latters.
Thus, this gap needs to be closed, and quickly - Snow already recognized the acceleration of social changes and of technology of Kurzweilian taste as of today.
