https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381818.Nine_and_a_Half_Weeks
Sexy book alert!!!Anyone who knows me, knows I am frigid and heartless.
;)I am NOT an erotic novel fan- I like sex outside my reading materials- and I lack a fantasy reading life.
A book based on real life.
The truth is usually so- The main character under the spell of an abusive male- was less spell-binding than the Mickey Rourke fantasy...but still worth the read.Woman meets the man of her dreams.
All her power...and the complete lack of being able to question anything he asks of her.
I'm talking about this:Mickey Rourke in 9 1/2 Weeks and David Bowie in Labyrinth, they taught 90s me so much.
I thought, gee, there must be some hot stuff in these pages, if publishers have to protect innocent eyes with a layer of plastic.
The author tells the story of her doomed romance with an unnamed man - a romance which is based on their ever-intensifying sadomasochistic relationship.
It's tougher than you'd think, to compete with 80s Mickey Rourke.(I think I'm still learning about what "literary erotica" means.
Elizabeth (real life Ingeborg Day) quickly learned that she enjoyed being in an anonymous relationship and exploring the darker side of sex.
However, I had a hard time trying to decide how I like this book or not.
When I think of it as a memoir, this book was impactful as these things actually happened to a real person.
When I read a book, I like them to be “clean”.
There were minimal descriptions of the characters and their background, making me had a hard time feeling for them.
Right from the start I found myself saying "WTF, I don't remember that being a scene in the film." I almost gave up on the damn book because it was tarnishing the image of my beloved Mickey Rourke...
One minute I'd be internally screaming to Elizabeth "Run you stupid cow !" Then 2 minutes later I'd be talking under my breath " You lucky heifer." I wanted to kick John in the balls at the start of the book, BUT a few pages later the  Mickey charming, doting, oh so tempting John I remembered from the movie appeared ( and then some ) and I wanted to ** add verb here** said nuts.
I've seen that - it's called '9 and 1/2 Weeks'," - and now that I've actually read it, that statement it truer than ever.(view spoiler)[It is SO DIFFERENT from the movie.
Keeps her in handcuffs virtually every moment she's in the apartment, ties her to whatever piece of heavy furniture is nearest to where he's sitting.I like the movie a lot, Mickey Rourke was H-O-T in it.
But the man is so different in the book - it actually made reading it harder, because I knew how it would end.
The lack of angst makes it more real, not less.
In 2013 would she have felt safe enough to stay with him.
If she'd stayed with him, could it have worked?
Amazing memior of a real BDSM affair.
A favorite passage:Sometimes I wondered abstractly how it was possible that pain could be this exciting.
Since pain always came as a prelude and only then--sometimes hours earlier but always eventually leading to orgasm--it became as longed for, as sensuous, as integral to lovemaking as having my breasts caressed.
I vow that from now on I’ll intersperse my junk food with layered, intense, thought-provoking lit from authors that are comfortable enough to leave interpreting their story to their readers.I immersed myself in Nine and a Half Weeks with the same reckless abandon the narrator threw herself in a brief but all-consuming affair thirty years earlier.
Shameful.With her sisters’ hard-won battle for equality fresh in mind, "Elizabeth" (a pseudonym for Ingeborg Day, whose real identity wasn’t disclosed until much later) published this brutally honest memoir of her sadomasochistic affair with an unnamed man.
woman as wind-up toy, lalalalalala not listening.passion as cold-blooded ritual, lalalalalala not listening.upscale lifestyle detail porn, lalalalalala not listening.let's go shopping, lalalalalala not listening.a sexy abusive relationship, lalalalalala not listening.gorgeous prose, lalalalalala not listening.
Buddy-read with the lovely  Heather  coming up approximately September 23 (depending on the Canadian postal services) Monday, September 15 :)ReviewA conscious new power: vulnerablity, perverse if only because it is total, natural as grass nonetheless, or asphalt in New YorkThere is an art to surrender...And it isn't always pretty or simple.
Pain is grounding whilst pleasure is non-sensical, in this way a measure of pain intermingled with a sexual act can become like a railroad tie centering you into reality.One quick note: DO NOT read Francis Prose's foreword BEFORE the memoir it is full to the brim with spoilers!!!
I love this book so much. It's so depressing and sexy and foul and totally engrossing. I rarely read books and go, "Goddamn, why can't I meet someone who will dress me in boys underpants, make me pack a cock and then bitchslap me around?" I guess I'm probably missing the point of this nuanced look at a self destructive romance.
But somewhere down the line, this relationship started to feel a little uncomfortable.
He starts requiring her to steal something from a store but when he scoffs her for the wimpy way she stole the item he pushes her to assault and rob someone in an elevator.
The book was written in a very detached way that added to the tension felt throughout the book.
The reader is like a spectator, not there to make judgement, but to question themselves how far they would let this relationship go if they were in the author's place.
DNF at 12%Picked this up as a.99 sale. I classic written in 1978. Just not capturing their connection. Really struggling here!
No ratingThis book was not what I expected.
Don't get me wrong I knew this was a memoir, but when it finally set in that this actually happened to somebody, I felt uncomfortable.
I couldn't enjoy it nor dislike it, I just wanted to finish it and get it over with.
It was long and had some unnecessary things.
It also took me long to finish because I wasn't looking forward.
It also made me question,Why do we read books?
And the answer to that was to escape life's bitchness.
And because this was actually someone's life and problems....
I think she was the one who ended the affair, probably based on the fact that any psychologist would have diagnosed the woman as having a mental illness at that time period and that probably caused her to conclude that to keep her 'real life' going, she would have to give her big love up.To me the book reads like an eulogy to a deeply regretted choice, the choice to give up what really made her happy to satisfy the outward appearance demands of a world that clearly wouldn't condone what really made her feel free and fullfilled.
In some ways it's about a self-destructive affair that engulfs both McNeill and her nameless lover, but in other ways...it's deeply, shatteringly romantic and enticing.Yes, I know--- the film.
The film takes away from the book, from the darkness and obsessiveness.
There's a moment where her lover takes her to an English riding shop and shocks the saleswoman by trying out a riding crop on McNeill's bare thigh (right--- like that would ever be unusual in a high-end riding gear shop in NYC!) that's just...incredible.
Yes, then: let's just say that the book is incredibly hot.
But let's also say that this is one of the Hot Reads I've kept with me in different editions all through the years.
I read this mostly so I could smugly say to people that I read the version of 50 Shades of Grey that was published 30 years ago and written better.
(Second place goes to Weird Science.) This has caused several problems in my generation, like the idea that adding food to sex isn't gross, and a weird fetish for hats.
Which sounds distracting.But both the book and the movie - and 50 Shades, is my impression - draw a murky line between sex play and abuse.
It's hard to tell, more in the book than the movie.
It's like 50 Shades but written 30 years ago.
I want to live this bookThat ending just devastated me.
Il libro è decisamente meno bello del film, in ogni caso non è narrativa pattumiera perché è gradevolmente scritto, non è mai volgare, nemmeno il film lo era, non vira mai verso pornografia spiccia ed esibita rimane tutto avvolto in un erotismo patinato, che indulge più che altro e in maniera sommessamente minuziosa nella descrizione delle fantasie di sottomissione della partner femminile, sottomissioni non solo sessuali ma soprattutto psicologiche, giochi, teatrini, appuntamenti al buio in camere d’albergo, travestimenti, furti forzati, fantasie.Lei oggetto nelle mani di lui: ammanettata al letto con i polsi doloranti mansueta attende che lui assorto termini il suo lavoro seduto alla sua scrivania di quercia, lei bendata e accarezzata con un frustino flessibilissimo, ma lei anche oggetto delle cure amorevoli e quasi materne di lui che la lava, la veste al mattino, la sveste la sera, le cucina i pasti, la nutre, lava i piatti, la massaggia, la fa massaggiare da un massaggiatore professionista, le legge quotidiani riviste i racconti di Katherine Mansfield, le compra gli assorbenti li inserisce li estrae, le toglie il trucco dal viso, la fa godere.
This book is an intense emotional look into a BDSM journey that continues to push the limits until the main character, Elizabeth, has a psychological breakdown.
Rather than erotic (like the movie), it's a hard truth of what can sometimes happen when you find that thing that really turns you on.Reading this short, 116-page novella one evening, I found myself gripping my comforter, intensely enthralled, wondering if Elizabeth would make it out alive.
A really great psychological thriller, but don't expect to be able to use it as fodder for masturbation.
FULL REVIEW HERE WITH COMPARISON TO FSOG => http://afterdarkbooklovers.com/2015/0...This book has left me stunned.
I just watched the movie and felt emotionally drained after.
This feels worse.
Everything was amplified.
The cross dressing scene.
Speechless.
The hotel scene was bad enough to watch, until I read the scene and it went further.
I want to curl in the fetal position and cry for this woman.I would love to read the male POV on this.
Because he treats like he loves her and at the same time, wants to ruin her.
Whhhhhhhyyyyyy?!?!?!
We'll never know since his name was never mentioned.More thoughts later.
I never saw the movie with Mickey Rourke so I won't make any such comparison, but this was an eloquent and disturbing account of a real life BDSM relationship.
Be careful of what you wish for (fantasize about), or you might end up like Ms. McNeill (an emotional breakdown)!
That is nothing else but a dysfunctional relationship with no future.I couldn't stop turning the pages as the heroine slid deeper and deeper into the abyss, putting me on edge, awaiting her inevitable crash and burn.
Very disturbing, raw, yet enlightening.
I've read other reviews where the reader states that "McNeill's" narrative doesn't allow the reader distance, but I felt very differently as I read.
She gives us no names and drops us in the thick of things.
Never "him", always "Him."When I read the afterword by her daughter the book took on an entirely new meaning for me.
Not only does she abandon all that makes her who she is to feel this sick and twisted pleasure he gives her, but she has a child while doing it?
Talk about a sub and her dom, this is the real thing - a true story.What is most shocking about this book is that McNeill wrote her story - and got it published - in the seventies, while this subject-matter is still controversial today.
She reveals her intense experience in a neutrally descriptive way, neither judging nor condoning anyone's behavior, nor making apologies for what she went through.Her true freedom was obtained through her completely voluntary submission and surrender to him, through being over-powered, taken, and led to the heights and lows of that submission by him.
4.5 Unforgettable StarsSo much better than the movie but it hurt a little more to read this from her POV. My heart hurts for her. It continues to hurt for her. Dammit!!! *cries*
Either you know why this book is brilliant or you don't but this is an exquisite memoir.
It wasn't until I watched the movie that I knew it was at least roughly based on a book of the same title.I read the book because movies like that make me wonder what really happened in those pages that the film-makers were either unable or unwilling to portray.
The characters and their psychology are absolutely not the same.Some readers see this as a "dark" book, and at moments it is, but it's also suffused with a joyfully wicked, manic, brightly burning passion which contrasts its deadpan prose.
It is a book of contrasts.
We're killing it on the buddy reads.Review:I think this is a case of "it's not you, it's me." I can see why others like this book, but a matter-of-fact narration like this one pretty much guarantees I'll never get emotionally involved.
And if I don't get emotionally involved in a book, it'll never be a favorite.Maybe the author had to remove herself emotionally in order to write this, because she went through some pretty intense stuff during her brief affair.
I like to think the author finally realized the abuse that was happening and knew it had to stop.
Nine and a Half Weeks is a short memoir that some consider to be erotica.
The unnamed male completely controls every aspect of the authors life and emotionally manipulates her into doing things she is incredibly uncomfortable with.
The book ended in what felt like it could have been the middle of the author's story.
I wanted to know about the consequences of this relationship for the author and how she coped with it moving forward in her life.
The ending seemed incomplete to me, but perhaps the author just wasn't ready to discuss the consequences ...
Oh how far we've come in the twenty (?) odd years since this was written - how we've moved away from books about rich, controlling men who like to dominate women...
We are given few details, but it feels surprisingly easy to fill in a lot of the blanks (a sure sign of good writing) and, actually, it feels like we were given just enough information.
For once, I'd like a sequel to this as the end is deliciously vague, and gives away a lot while telling us nothing.
Beautiful people of NYC who shop at Bloomie's by day and engage in S&M type stuff by night.
Yeah, so I pulled a perfect condition hardcover of this out of the dumpster of a certain bookseller, and it's just a hair over 100 pages and well-enough written.
But the style is not quite as poetic, though it does have its swoon moments.
This is an unapologetic memoir by a woman lost in love and lust, to the exclusion of all else, burning bridges heedlessly in throes of her passion, living for the moments of intense pleasure and sensuality.
Written prior to the 80s, yet very 80s.
