https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381421.Jesus_Calling
I must admit, I’m usually not one to like devotional books.
I’ve read many over the years and hate the “fluff” that is found in many devotionals.
As a reviewer for Thomas Nelson Publishers, though, I decided to give this devotional a try.This devotional book, with a reading for each day of the year, is the most unique devotional I’ve ever read.
What I like about this devotional is that it becomes a very personal read.
It’s like sitting down with Jesus over a cup of coffee and hearing what His words are for you for that day.
I think Tim Challies' review sums up my thoughts perfectly: http://www.challies.com/book-reviews/...I have a friend who knows Sarah Young and confirmed that she does, in fact, hold a high view of the authority and sufficiency of Scripture.
Sadly the reader is left with this published book and there is no way one can leave this book believing Young believes in sola scriptura.
The introduction is particularly troubling where she writes "I was seeking something deeper" in reference to her desire to get something more from personal experience and "listening to God" than what is plainly revealed in the Word.
Surprisingly Young went to Covenant Seminary and L'Abri and still publishes this kind of anthropocentric theology.
This book was disturbing to me and here is why. I am troubled that the author writes her words as if it was Jesus speaking. My fourteen and fifteen year old Sons were also given a book and before I voiced my opinion, they told me they didn't feel comfortable reading something as though it was Jesus' words when those words came from a human being.I believe that if Jesus had something to say he is more than capable of saying it instead of someone speaking for him.It just did not sit well with us.
I love to "start" traditions, but I am not very good at keeping them -- except when they are bad habits, but that's another story.
But reading this book has become a tradition I'd like to keep doing for a very long time.
Every day, when I sit down for my evening meal, I light a candle and read from Sarah Young's Jesus Calling.
The entries are simple, direct encouragement in the first person voice of Jesus Christ and are, more often than not, spot on.
We've been having a very sweet time.
The author claims to have received these messages from Jesus, and she writes as if he is speaking.
Yet her jesus twists Scripture, misinterprets it, undermines spiritual disciplines, undermines the sufficiency of Scripture (she wants more), and elevates a form of quiet and meditation that is more akin to eastern religions than Christianity.
That in itself should be reason to put this book down and read the Bible which is actually the Word of God. If it is uniquely inspired as the description claims (twice) we must wonder by whom--it is not the Jesus of the Bible.
These meditations help get me through the day. I believe that it's time for me to move on.Started reading again on 3/25/2018
I just got the book Jesus Calling in the mail today.
She took time every morning to listen to God and write down what she felt He was saying to her through the Word and just in her listening time.
I have only read today's entry, but am totally hooked on it.
I was encouraged and rebuked at the same time to get the most out of my quiet time with God every day.I highly recommend this devotional to anyone who is struggling to figure out how to start their devotions or to add onto what they are already doing.
I felt led to share my thoughts with all of you on a very popular devotional book of our day written by Sarah Young and published by Thomas Nelson.
That being said, I am always on the look out for true seekers of The Way, that acknowledge His ultimate authority, yet share their own unique perspective, in turning out a gifted word, that draws others closer to His authenticity, grace and truth.
I believe He has met Sarah Young there as well and she has been able to have the privilege to touch many more than I am sure she ever imagined with this writing, inspired by His Word, love, grace and truth.
Title: Jesus Calling: Enjoying Peace in His PresenceAuthor: Sarah YoungPublisher: Thomas Nelson, Inc.Year: 2004ISBN: 978-1-5914-5188-4This book is a daily devotional, with one page for each day of the year (including February 29).
Each page includes a daily reading, written by the author, and related Scripture references.The themes of the reading include love, thankfulness, prayer, etc.
I recommend this book to any Christian as part of their daily time with God.One of the things that I did not like of the book is that Young often switched Bible versions in her Scripture references.
This book frustrates me. The author's goal seems to be good. Much of what is said is true. Some of it is not. Even though the author denies it, the way in which everything is presented - as the very words of Jesus - completely contradicts and mocks the authority, infallibility and sufficiency of Scripture.Not recommended.
I found this to be a substitute for hearing God's voice through His Word and Holy Spirit through salvation in Christ Jesus .
Sarah Young places words she believes have come directly from Jesus speaking as a basis for application to anyone reading her devotional.
Only the Holy Spirit can discern the heart of a believer and give personal, individual guidance based on God's Word.
I recommend reading God's Word on a daily basis so that He can meet your individual personal needs and speak directly to you through the Holy Spirit's discernment.
Unlike other devotionals, Young records thoughts she receives from God in a personal format, so each devotional is like a little message from God that aims directly for the heart.After reading just a few entries of Jesus Calling, I wept.
This book massaged my weary heart and panicked spirit into rightful submission to a loving God. What makes this book so wonderful?
Jesus Calling fights our human tendencies to stray from God and brings to mind His intent to have a relationship with His creation.Another thing I love about Jesus Calling is that it is easy to add a reading into daily devotions.
I am spending my second year with Sarah Young's insights. I am usually very leery of books that speak in the voice of Jesus, but after receiving this book no fewer than three times as a gift, I decided to give it a chance. I have yet to find a single sentence that bothers me. This little treasure is absolutely grounded in the scriptures! I find just the right tidbit waiting for me to sample every day.
I stopped reading this book. I tried to continue, but every time I read a page I felt something in the pit of my stomach. I've never liked when authors speak in the first person as Jesus or God. I certainly didn't like it this time. Additionally, I felt portions were dangerously close to crossing a line. Finally, redundant doesn't begin to describe the daily writings. I gave up. Not recommended.
Nothing I can write about this book can express the impact it has had on my life.
It is a devotional, so I read it daily and have not finished it.
Sarah Young was in tune with God on this book.
I recommend it to everyone who desires more in their walk with God. This book makes God real to me, to the individual reading it.
It shows the loving, merciful, grace giving God that not only has a plan for our lives, but a desire for our closeness to Him.I very much recommend this book.
Must have book for those seeking more of Him.
A good friend gave me this book back in the fall of 2011.
As I read it, I was unsettled in my spirit.
After awhile, I realized that it was the fact that the author wrote as if Jesus was speaking, and that bothered me.
Further research revealed that she contradicts scripture multiple times and bases her technique on occult writings (God Calling).
The only reason I bother writing a review for this books is to warn friends who may decide to read this.
Hopefully they see my review and reconsider.
Please read Warren B.
See my review on 'Another Jesus Calling'.
In addition I was excited to find the author has a kid's version of a devotional, a cd of songs to go along with this, a journal to side by side with this bible and some additional books that I look very forward to reading.I recommend this bible, this author, and this inspiration for anyone who seeks to journey closer to God. It hit home with me and I am so glad that I chose it.
Reread 2017: Peace and blessings to all my GoodReads friends and I wish for each of you a very Happy New Year.Reread 2016I read this devotional through every year.
As I complete this on the last day of this year, I want to wish everyone a blessed Happy New Year and peace to all who want it.
The first one I had was a small book, so that I could have it at work.
On each day's devotional it would list the Bible verses that went with the daily reading.
In that one it had the verses written out for each daily reading.
If you are going to write on behalf of Jesus you had better be sure that you are saying what He would say. This book often contradicts the clear sayings of Jesus to present an American fuzzy Jesus whose always on your side even when you're in sin. It is very shocking that more Christians do not speak out against this sort of fuzzy false teaching. The Bible says that we are to be on guard against such things but sadly we living in a day in which the church in America shoots its watchmen and celebrates its plunderers.
I absolutely adore this devotional. Young created a genuine piece of work. I have read it nearly everyday for the past year, but I still find peace from it even now. Beautiful and comforting.
A dear friend gave me this book during a difficult time in her life, as well as mine.
Bless her heart, she remembered how I LOVE leather covers and ribbon markers in books...and gave me that version.
This book is unbelievably remarkable because no matter what is pressing down on you, niggling at your heart or just making life seem unbearable...well, THAT day you will read it and it will speak to you as though the Lord truly prepared it just for you...never fails.
A short daily meditational reading that EVERYONE has time for.
There are a lot of daily meditation books...great ones...but buy this one!
The message that we need to trust God and enjoy His presence more is an important one, but the way the author used first person to denote God speaking made me too uncomfortable to finish the book.
She did point out in the introduction that the book is not inspired in the same way Scripture is, but speaking in first person on behalf of God still seemed presumptuous.
The Holy Spirit does speak to those who listen, but human error is almost always present when we receive messages and then restate them.
Jesus Calling: Enjoying Peace in His Presence, by Sarah Young, Thomas Nelson, 2004, 400 Pages, ISBN-13: 978-1591451884, $14.99Sarah encourages intimacy with Christ when she writes in the voice of Jesus, although some challenge her for doing so. I’m one that doesn’t. Reading Sarah’s devotions affords me an immediacy and intimacy with the Lord I’ve only found…Full Review: http://tinyurl.com/cddqxtb
This is the perfect daily devotional for me.. It always seems to relate to things going on in my life & to be exactly the words or wisdom I needed to hear. This is my 2nd time reading this devotional... I love it!❤ It helps me to be more positive and keeps my heart turning to Jesus in every situation, knowing he is with me always!
This is the perfect daily devotional for me.. It always seems to relate to things going on in my life & to be exactly the words or wisdom I needed to hear. This is my 2nd time reading this devotional... I love it!❤️ It helps me to be more positive and keeps my heart turning to Jesus in every situation, knowing he is with me always!
This is nothing more than automatic handwriting. I am appalled the Church has embraced this book.
If you are looking for a daily devotional, this one is special. I'm a huge fan of Oswald Chambers, but needed a new voice of encouragement. This was the right one for me.
I actually have sat down and read this from cover to cover, or at least I'll finish it on the 31st.
I've been reading this book along with two other books each day this year: Praying with Psalms and 365 Pocket Prayers.
Saying a prayer and then referencing a verse or psalm.
2013 ReviewThis isn't exactly a book that I'd just sit down and read from cover to cover.
I used this book a lot last year, especially when I finally decided to leave my new job I'd only been at for nine months.
Finally, with a little encouragement and strength from reading this book I left.
This book is written in a first person letter form, it's supposed to be directly from Jesus to the reader.
Most days though I haven't bothered to look up the Bible passages.Where this book falls short: Some days are a bit, uh, fluffy, or too "modernly" written, and it seems a little distracting from the first person perspective of Jesus.
I've read several days out of order and started this book in October, and I'm editing this review in January.
Jesus Calling is a daily devotional written to speak directly to your heart and soul.
She then passed those messages to us in the form of a daily devotional.
I have been searching for a daily devotional for years.
I have longed for one that would help me see Christ up close and personal and at the same time make me want to come back for more.This book has ended that search.
Through this devotional, Christ speaks to each part of me: Spirit, soul and body.
My wife was given this book by some people from church years ago. Only later we found out that they were also huge proponents of Rob Bell's liberal bank and boulder dash DVDs and books.This book should be denounced by any Protestant Christian who believes in Sola Scriptura as the heretical, New Age Humbug that it is.
