https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7059135-inside-out
Let's begin with the fact that I met MVS back in November (and I never posted pictures or notes of the rollicking good time that was had by all), and at dinner, she told us about the book she was working on that was due to come out in, oh, 1/2 a year (the tease).
Back to the "getting the digital copy" bit, I found it on NetGalley and snagged it for review, and what was I worried about?All of the things I loved about Snyder's adult books are her in Inside Out. I care about the characters, I see a budding romance, but on a YA level, the writing is super fast paced and catching, and it flows wonderfully.
Although a passive attitude prevails, many scrubs resent having to live in large dormitories devoid of any privacy, having to hand over their newborns to a Care Mother in the care facility, laboring in the recycling plant, the laudry room, the vegetable or mutton farms, getting checked, punished or killed for misbehavior by the so-called "Pop Cops", the population control set up by the ruthless Trava family, who is in charge of Inside Security.Those who desperately wish for change set their hopes high whenever a "prophet" starts to gather followers.
This book had a couple of good twists and turns that I enjoyed a lot.
I will definitely be diving into the rest of this series.Now even though I enjoyed the book, the characters were kind of meh.
Again, not really memorable but I did enjoy learning about her.
Besides that I loved her friendship with Riley a lot.Overall, it was a cute book.
It had okay characters and an interesting storyline.
I'll definitely be continuing with this series just to see how it plays out and maybe the characters will get more interesting too.
Plus, there were some minor discrepancies/holes in her world that gave me pause (like the rotating of shifts that supposed to be half on/half off, but then staggered when it was convenient).
Some of the plot twists or character availability/knowledge seemed a little too convenient too.Having said all that, her world is vivid and I have a clear picture in my mind of Trella and the Inside.
The more I read the more intrigued I became with the plot.
I've committed to only reading the first of a series and being okay with those loose ends at the end.
I was looking forward to a matrix-style reality and all kinds of philosophical questions about life, death and whatever... it didn't deliver. I struggled to finish it, I'm afraid.
Wow. I definitely underestimated this book.
So good!I'm not going to say much, because it's not really a book you can review in detail without giving much away.Maria Snyder creates an intricate world which is so easy to get caught up in.
I must admit, it confused the heck out of me at first and on several occasions I considered setting the book aside, but I'm so glad I didn't.
I think pages 80-100 was where my attention was really 'captured' (pardon the pun).I wasn't a big fan of Trella at first, but she grew on me as the book progressed.
I am so glad I had low expectations for Inside Out by Maria V. Snyder, because it blew my mind. I often set the bar high for books that I read and wind up disappointed, so I was quite pleased when the opposite proved true while reading Inside Out.Read the rest of my review here
Trella is the Queen of the Pipes.
Not her fellow scrubs, forever hemming her in, or the uppers—the exalted upper level inhabitants who think they control the scrubs.
No one controls Trella.Because she doesn’t connect.But the chance to find Gateway.
The chance to escape the Inside.THAT is a challenge Trella can’t turn down.A challenge that matters to everyone on the Inside.
The young man who breaks through Inside’s social class barriers to help her.But can putting their faith in Trella possibly be worth it?Loved this!
Prison Break meets—dare I say it?—Academy 7.
After Poison Study, I think this is my second favorite Maria V.
Trella is a scrub, just one of the thousands packed in like sardines in the lower levels who keep Inside clean.
And her superior knowledge of getting around comes in handy when she inadvertently starts a rebellion against the ruling Upper family of Inside and their brutal Pop Cops.I don’t often get fangirly in my reviews, but OMG does this book make me giddy!
It gets you spinning theories as to how they got there, why they’re there, and who controls “gateway” (the way out all scrubs are hoping really does exist).This cube setting was difficult for me to imagine initially.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsMy rating would possibly be higher, but the fact that I've read The Hunger Games this year is keeping me from liking this book any more.
I'll take a wild guess and say that Snyder got the idea for Inside Out while watching that great National Geographic special about the Berlin Wall.
What's on the other side of the barrier (or in this case on higher levels) sounds like a promised land, but Pop Cops (Population Control Police), led by the ruling family, are everywhere, ready to kill anybody brave enough to think about crossing.
WOW-WOW-WOW! Gewoon amazing, en VEEL beter dan ik verwacht had. Ik zat gelijk lekker in het verhaal, en na een tijdje kon ik het boek echt NIET meer wegleggen. En vooral Binnen vond ik echt heel gaaf en origineel... eigenlijk was het hele idee gewoon te gek. Vooral na de onthullingen op de laatste 10 pagina's...
Maria V Snyder is just amazing!
Inside Out is definitely totally different from Synder’s Study series, but set in a fascinating new world that I was drawn into from the very beginning.Inside is an intriguing place.
Inside Out definitely has left many questions open that I hope will be further explored in Outside In, the sequel coming out in 2011.All in all, the only complaints I have: Sometimes, solutions to problems came rather easily with the help of new inventions or the discovery of some computer data, which I found a bit unrealistic and often a little hard to follow.Also, the heroine's voice was just a tad too young for me, makng this almost middle grade material (although Trella is around 17).Nevertheless, I'll be reading the sequel.
*3.8 stars* “When the effort fails, is it worth the cost?” Inside Out is captivating read, with some surprising twists in the storyline, full of interesting sci-fi elements - if you're into that sort of thing, if not you'll struggle to get into it at the beginning. (Like me, I have to say). Characters were ok, but not truly remarkable (I hope that the second book will change that). There is little bit of romance, but no love triangle and it's not getting into the way of the story like in lot of
Inside Out is captivating read, with some surprising twists in the storyline, full of interesting sci-fi elements - if you're into that sort of thing, if not you'll struggle to get into it at the beginning.
There is little bit of romance, but no love triangle and it's not getting into the way of the story like in lot of Ya. It's more of sci-fi, but the story has some elements of Hunger Games.
Except for Hunger Games and The Lunar Chronicles, I can't recall any book from this genre that I actually love.
I still remain huge fan of Snyder's books and will definitely read the sequel soon.
I received this book just as I was starting to read Maria's first novel Poison Study.
That was probably not very fair because I absolutely loved the Poison Study series, while I was not as enamored with this book.Because of all of the amazing dystopian books that are available, this one needed to be amazing to really stand out in such a large market.
Overall an ok book.
It did not really stand out like in needed to.
Snyder I have since given her several more opportunities to "wow" me or show me what kind of writing she is capable of and each time it has been quite disappointing.'Inside-Out' is another typical young adult dystopic, novel where the main character for some reason can change/save the world and of course has a love interest blah, blah, blah the list goes on.The main character I found VERY hard to connect to and her situation further still, she was too stubborn and I found the ATTEMPTS at making her appear strong-willed and independent to be quite futile.
After I read the last page, I learned that Snyder actually got this entire idea, a long with the characters, the twists and even the ending.
As you read this book, it becomes so real, just like a dream you come to experience, where you are engaged in every moment.
This is where Trella's skills really come in handy; she must hide from The Pop Cops, and avoid LC Karla, because they are looking for the scrub who started this all, the one who is behind all of this.
Maria Snyder's Study Series has been one of my long time favorites so I was excited to finally get around to reading Inside Out. This book ended up being far different from the Study series but I still enjoyed it.It's hard to say much about this one that isn't a spoiler.
Inside Out is a dystopian story with a science fiction twist.
Maria Snyder proves once again that she is a great writer.
Great characters and lots of twists and turns made for a fun read.
There was romance in this book but it wasn't the main focus, more of a side story.
I'm having a love affair with Maria V.
Snyder!
Everything she writes, I love.
Thankfully, that disappointment never came!Inside Out was so good, I could not stop reading it.
Ms. Snyder simply picks up the reader and drops him or her right into a new world.
And I LOVED it.
The plot has been told in other reviews so I won't repeat it but it will make your heart race!Will I read the next book?I'll probably pre-order it months ahead of time!Just placed this book on my "Favorite Book of 2010" shelf.
It's been a while since i finished a book in only two days. I just couldn't put this book down! The story had me from the beginning, and there were some seriously awesome twist and turns. I really loved this book! Everyone who enjoys sci-fi or dystopian will definitly enjoy this book too. Read it! :D
Een spannend boek waar ik vanaf de eerste bladzijde helemaal in meegezogen werd. Ik had dan ook niet anders verwacht van een van mijn favoriete schrijfsters
A really good read. Finally something not overloaded with romance.Review coming later.
*Sigh*I guess I'm in that minority that hates a book that everyone else loves...yet again.
Oh well, guess it's more fun to hate something then to like it.
Writing Style Okay Ms Snyder, I will hand you something.
You know that terrifying feeling when you think that the book has a happy ending, but there's still too many pages left?
Cog. I liked him...he died.
And I hate a bully.Cog. I loved Cog. The only character I liked.
Cog could've easily done everything and more without being a bitch about it, like Trella was.
Boken handler om Trella som bor i The Inside.
Det eneste som menneskene i Inside holder seg fast til et håpet om The Outside.
Det var en historie om The Gateway, som skulle lede dem ut til Outside.
I de nederste nivåene, så jobber "the scrubs" som holder Inside ren for de som bor i de øverste nivåene - også kalt "the Uppers".
Det som boken hovedsaklig handler om er Trella og hvordan hun styrer opprøret mot Travas-familien og søken om The Gateway.
Så jeg vil absolutt anbefale denne serien til dere som liker dystopiske bøker og bøker som er spennende!
I loved Snyder's Fire Study series and liked the Glass series (which I still haven't reviewed, but are fun fantasy novels with really strong female protagonists), but this is straight sci-fi and it's pretty weak.
A very quick read, but I found it pretty boring overall.
Definitely read Snyder's other books but give this series a pass.
Also, the romance is not very romantic (I kind of feel that way about her other books, but I find it a virtue there-- the romances take a serious sidelines to what are basically the career goals of the protagonists, but in this one I couldn't even drum up lackluster enthusiasm for the love interest).
Perhaps the dystopian genre needs to start to challenge itself. I really enjoyed this one and my rating would have been higher if I had read this book before more challenging, imaginative dystopian books like Branded, Red queen, The V girl, Angellfall and an Ember in the ashes. All in all I recommend this book to anyone who likes YA dystopia with a little bit of romance because it's entertaining.
So how old is everyone? I tried, I asked my husband to figure it out and still have no clue. I maybe skimmed that paragraph? I just told myself 16 and didn't dwell. This wasn't my favorite all time, but would still recommend to a friend looking for something new.
I think I'd just got a bit bored of YA dystopia, the market has been completely flooded with the genre for a long time now and although this series was published during the early wave because I missed it at the time it's taken a while to make it's way back onto my radar.
She also cares about her people as a whole, she wants to create a better life for the scrubs who live on the lower levels.
Inside Out doesn't disappoint and I was blown away from the very beginning by the life Inside.In this world where everyone lives "inside", the society is split between Uppers (living a rather regular life in upper/richer parts) and scrubs which have no real life to speak of and clean the pipes of dust and rust constantly for fear of being "recycled" (understand literally recycled).
The other characters we encounter as well as the dynamic between Uppers and scrubs are astutely described and not only could we feel the difference between both populations, but we could understand on a systemic level how the society was organised.
The characters were simple, the plot was simple and I felt as though there was so much that could have been done with this book that just wasn't.The only thing that piqued my interest (and I can't even tell you, for spoilers) was the search for Gateway - the door to the Outside.
