https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198689.Jean_and_Johnny
No change except a further appreciation of the Jarretts' tough economic situation.4-3-10 review:I take back anything I ever said about this being my least favorite of the Cleary YA books.
It's certainly the one that makes me cringe the most, but that's only because it reminds me of my time wasted chasing after a not-good-enough.
But good for Jean for learning her lesson and for wearing a killer dress to spend an evening with pigeons.
Cleary's books are always rich with home details that forever fixate in the mind.
Beverly Cleary amazes me. She has a deceptively simple style, but her insight into people is profound. I wish I'd read this as a teenager, because it contains so much dating wisdom in a sweet story. One favorite quote: "It was Johnny who had noticed her, singled her out of the crowd, had made her feel she was attractive. In a way, it was Johnny who had made her aware of herself." (283)Don't miss this book if you are a Cleary fan, or like sweet stories.
Must have read this book 500 times. It taught me boys can be mean, but girls are tough enough to take it. Sue and Jean reminded me of Beezus and Ramona all grown up!
I have a soft spot for these types of vintage stories, so it was fun to dive in after reading two books back to back about vampires and death and evil and sex.Jean Jarrett is a fifteen-year-old girl who doesn't feel like she fits in at her school.
Jean falls hard and the rest of the book is a teenage roller coaster of emotions.
The story itself is finished, I just wanted that wrap-up so that's a critique of personal preference.Reading this book was eye-opening as well.
The writing is so much better than much of what YA delivers today.
Good for girls thinking about boys and dating. I love when she won't kiss him because it's their first date! Talks about what dating is for: getting to know people better. Also a good discussion of "being noticed" by a boy and how that's not always so fun.
Kip Laddish suddenly isn't nearly as interesting, for one thing, and Jean begins to sense that her sister, Sue is jealous of her newfound romantic interest.
And though one message of the book does seem to be that girls shouldn't go after the boys they like, I think the larger theme is that girls shouldn't waste their time on good-looking boys simply because they're good-looking, and that there's no need to wait around for a boy who isn't interested when maybe there's another boy out there who is.
You DON'T read a book like this for its action packed story line.
You DO read a book like this for a slice-of-life look into the world of a teenage girl smack dab in 1950s America.
And though times have changed quite markedly for a 15 year old girl, some themes from the book strike a chord even today.
There will always be Johnnys in this world, and perhaps there are more now than ever.
Overall, this book was a just really a fun little jaunt back in time.
I loved it as a teenager, and still do.}
At the time it was a large hard cover book and I stayed in my room all day reading it and wouldn't come out till the end.I think I was attracted to the book because I wore glasses, like Jean, (how do you hold your head when you are kissing a boy who also wears glasses????).
Bought it a few years ago and found it to be a normal length book, BUT as soon as I started reading it again, it was like I had just read it the day before because the story all came back, even sentences!
I picked Jean and Johnny off my bookshelf thinking it would be all goodness and light, like the wonderful Fifteen or Sister of the Bride, but it's actually a very cringe-inducing tale of a young girl who makes a fool of herself chasing after a boy who doesn't give a rat's ass about her.
She chases him around school and manages to embarrass herself by trying to make something happen when there's just nothing there, against the advice of her older sister and worried parents.
I'd first read this book years ago,(written in the cover was Teton Elementary 4th grade)but I remembered lots of things about it.
Most of the rest of her sophomore year she spends (with the help of her best friend Elaine) accumulating information about this boy and doing silly things like casually walking by his house and memorizing his phone number (so that's where I got all those silly ideas.
Thanks a lot Beverly Cleary!)The boy (Johnny)encourages her interest by showing interest in her.
This was 1959 after all).Aside from teaching me how to chase boys, I think this was a good book to read as a preteen.
Jean and Johnny is the third of Cleary's novels for young adults.
Even so, she captured pretty exactly the feelings of a 14-year-old girl who wonders whether or not a boy likes her.
I especially could relate to the phenomenon of becoming completely tongue-tied when in the presence of said boy.What bothered me was how passive Jean would be in any situation concerning Johnny.
I am aware that I was the same way at that age but I am not proud of it.I am pleased to say that my granddaughter, who just turned 14, is much more self-possessed.
I read this when I was about 12 and remember thinking it felt too tame and wholesome (especially after reading Judy Blume's many nitty-gritty takes on becoming a teenager.
15 year old girl meets older, confident dumbass (OCD), OCD leads girl on for way too long and eventually stands her up.
(Note to OCD, you can not give a girl a mixtape in 1992 featuring deep cuts by Moose and Sebedoh without her thinking there is *some* meaning behind it).
Kids/teens might find this too tame and dated, but might find some humour in the old fashioned technology/fashion/dating rituals/language.
So glad I'm not 15 years old anymore! Written in the late 1950's, a quaint but frustrating book about a girl getting interested in boys. I definitely didn't like this one as much as "The Luckiest Girl".
Young people listening to records and tuning in to their favorite television and radio "programs," drive-in restaurants with carhops serving Cokes, folks with telephone numbers like "Toyon 1-4343," and teenaged boys saying things like, "Gosh, that would be swell!" and meaning it.Such fun to return to this old-fashioned, cozy, slightly heartbreaking, relatable, sweet story as an adult, since I understand it better and have a greater appreciation for Jean's gradual maturation through the novel.
She grows in a much more satisfying way than I remembered.
Four stars for capturing so precisely the drama that teenage girls can create from the most insignificant word or look. This was me in high school (in the late 90's) though I didn't learn Jean's lessons until I went to college. I found it funny that I knew a Johnny exactly the Johnny character in the book. I wonder if I would have recognized the similarities and learned from the book had I read it in high school.
It's not going to rank with Fifteen or The Luckiest Girl for me, but that's possibly because 1. I read both of those books as a kid and grew up with them, so this can't really compete as a first-read in adulthood and 2. Since reading both of Cleary's memoirs, it's so hard not to have my reading affected by how hard her life was as a kid and teenager. She puts so much of herself and real events from her own life in her books, I can't divorce the two.
A sweet book offering Beverly Cleary's usual sharp insight into human character and motivation. It's been a long time since I "chased" a boy, but I remember it well (with chagrin) and could relate so well to Jean's emotions! The family dynamics and Jean's friendship with Elaine were heart-warming yet genuine, and the ending was quite satisfying.Wish I had discovered this series years ago!
Read this book when I was in high school and I enjoy this one. This is an easy read for young adults. About first loves and learning that you don't need to compromise yourself just to be like by someone. I would recommend this to my future children especially to young girls. A nice summer read.
(reread, of course)Oh, Beverly Cleary, don't you understand? Everyone FEELS this way, but no one is supposed to TALK about it!
I seriously consider this not only one of the best books I have ever read, but one of the most influential as well.
"They had come to dance and dance they must."
It was obviously a book meant for teen girls of the era.
However, this book was meant to capture that moment when young girls discover boys and develop their first crush.
Jean reaches this moment when the older Johnny asks her to dance and she develops a major crush on him.
I did like that in 1950s values, Jean wasn't told that looks don't matter, but instead was encouraged by a saleswoman to seek out the colors and styles most flattering to her.
I think a lot of modern girls wouldn't be so unhappy if they were given this advice rather than the unrealistic and obviously false notion that looks don't matter.
A teen novel written more for the 10 -12 age range, "Jean and Johnny" was first published in the 1950s and seemed very old-fashioned to me even when I first read it in the late 1960s.
And now that geeks rule the world, the nerdy Homer seems ahead of his time.While this charming book may not resonate with all contemporary young readers, it is a good recommendation for children who want to read about teen relationships, but are not yet ready for the more mature YA novels.
I loved this book when I was a kid and I remember checking it out over and over at the library so I thought I would read it again for the sake of nostalgia.
Unfortunately a book written about teenagers in the 1950s really didn't resonate with me in 2018.
Perhaps I'm too old to identify with it anymore but I found it so boring and lacking of anything interesting that I barely got through the second chapter.
That being said, Beverly Cleary has written some wonderful books in her career, but this one has not stood the test of time.
I picked this book up this morning and read it in a day - surprisingly Beverly Cleary has managed to stay timeless. I mean, it wasn't an overall incredible book. And the ending was obnoxious. But apart from the constant sewing these teenage girls did, most of the situations would still be relatable to today's teens. It's a classic "he's just not that into you" story. Kinda boring. But relatable. And with a big preoccupation with sewing.
Sometimes you just need a cute, "old fashioned," nostalgia read ... Beverly Cleary is an enduring figure in literature for reasons, and I think there's a certain timelessness to her stories. Yeah, it's a very different society, but the themes are so common. Familiar. And cute.
This is book three from Beverly Cleary's "First Love" series, and I am absolutely loving them all! It would be wonderful if these stories could be adapted into a mini TV series like HBO did with Mildred Pierce.
Short, happy, smart little read. Real thoughts and feelings. Interesting.
Great A. B. C d e f g h I j k l m n o l d c c c
7/10 - On the surface, a bit cheesy and old-fashioned, but unexpectedly thoughtful. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2018/08/wh...
