https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316025.Joy_of_Man_s_Desiring
Just as The Man Who Planted Trees has a central theme focused upon nature, this does too, but it is just too imaginary for my tastes.
You can tell it is the same author, but is too fantastical for my tastes.Don't pick up this book first.
Start with The Horseman on the Roof and then Blue Boy or The Man Who Planted Trees.
Jean Giono is a good writer, but never are all the books of any author equally good!
Oh yes, he has also written The Man Who Planted Trees.
Superbe.
Giono réalise, dans ce livre, l'éloge poignant de l'espoir et de la joie.
À l'aide d'un pouvoir lyrique extraordinaire, il met en scène une histoire entourée de magie et d'une poèsie éternelle.
Je garderai, à coup sûr, le souvenir des descriptions de la nature et notamment celles du ciel; un ciel comme moi, je pense, je n'en ai jamais vu de plus beau et expressif.
Ça m'a fait rêver.
Et ça habitera mon esprit pour longtemps.
4,5/5« C'est difficile, dit-il, de jouer avec les étoiles.- Non, dit Bobi, ce n'est pas ça le difficile, le difficile c'est de faire l'impossible.
Loved it! A friend gave it to me in 1978 because a character in one of my short stories reminded her of a character in the book. It's lyrical, beautiful, mystical and gives a contemporary perspective on what we lose when we let big business take over our farms.
very rich. full of images of nature's sensuality. just beautiful!
Beautiful, hauntingly evocative prose, elemental rural landscapes, rich in poetic thought. Compelling and accomplished - the song of the earth comes lyrically through this writer.
the best book ever.
Giono is like the French version of Thomas Hardy in his scenic descriptions. Only someone who has spent a lifetime in nature for entire days and weeks on end will have the insights shared in this book and only a poet could bring them to life like Giono. I felt simultaneously a memory for having experienced the native intimacy he describes and a longing to immerse myself in the wild enough to have those experiences only imagined.
This reissue of this 1935 French novel has Mother Nature and the human condition as its main characters. The characters are there to be acted upon by nature and to find the core of what humans need and want in the process. I can’t say I loved it, but it had a point of view which certainly makes you think.
Giono's most beautiful prose. I know it is a translation, but if it is, it is perfect! I often read it over again, picking up passages that reflect Nature so well. The feeling of being a part of the vast universe while standing in a field at night under the stars...
This book is bizarre (duh, its postmodern) but there was some truth to it and I loved how distinctly French it is and the characters in it are. Its interesting too how early it was written, for lots of thematic elements are things contemporary writers are just now teasing out and sorting through.
Just re-read this. One of my favorite all time books.
From the man who wrote, " The Man Who Planted Trees, Amazing, sublime.
Une lecture laborieuse et éprouvante mais un certain nombre de belles pages et de récompenses à la clé dans ce roman dont la petite musique est celle d'un Beckett émigré en terre de Provence.
A pastoral poem of a novel. And one of the most beautiful books i have ever read.
This was perhaps one of the strangest texts I've ever encountered, but it is breathtaking. Not for the skeptic or over-analytical reader.
Un bref sursis dans ce quotidien maussade, pour ouvrir les yeux sur un monde oublié.Il m'a fallu du temps pour terminer ce roman dont l'intrigue n'est que peu perceptible.
Parcourir ses pages au fil des stations de métro dont j'oubliais les noms, pour me focaliser sur le décor qui m'était offert par cette plume.
Une plume dont je ne louerai pas l'habileté, quoique agréable au demeurant.Que ma joie demeure, pour aller à l'essentiel, c'est l'histoire d'un village, non loin de la montagne, et de ses habitants, ni heureux, ni malheureux, vides, vides de tout espoir semble-t-il.
As I read this book, many years ago now, I was truly beguiled, bewitched by the beauty of the prose, and the remarkable whole-ness of his vision of life.
I must confess that I had a lot of trouble reading this book, easy as it was, just because of the intense beauty of the vision and the prose.
It is hard, possibly almost indecent, to engage solely with the beauty of the world.
So perhaps now I am old enough to read Jean Giono and simply appreciate the beauty of his vision.
Sur un plateau provençal, quelques familles vivant de la terre souffrent sans s'en apercevoir de leur isolement et du manque d'harmonie avec l'univers qui les entoure.
Comme le titre le suggère, l'auteur, au travers de ce roman, parle de la joie, du genre de quête qui pourrait y conduire ou encore de la possibilité d'en trouver une durable.
En parallèle, il est question (déjà il y a plus de 50 ans !) de la façon dont les travailleurs de la terre — à cause de l'argent ou de la mécanisation par exemple — ne savent eux-mêmes plus l'écouter, en prendre soin et vivre avec elle...
I got quite caught up in the way of living, the simple appreciation of nature and survival over traditional maximization of profits and separate lives. The story's dark and surreal end was a surprise and one I still don't fully understand. Perhaps it's something like an ambiguous utopia.One thing to note, even in this ideal world: the women have very specific and limited roles. They aren't boring characters at all, they are diverse and meaningful. But it did feel like all too familiar sexism in their lack of decision making and their roles as sexual beings.
My neighbor loaned me this book. I had a like, bothered relationship with it. I kept reminding myself that it was originally a French book so some things are lost in translation. The story behind the random writings about deer and nature pulled me in. How it ended continued the confusion, yet I still wanted to read it.
Recommended by Henry Miller in his Books In My Life - Giono also wrote a famous story about a lone shepherd who reforested miles of European hills with oaks that became a famous animation shown to millions of french and quebequois kids. This story is a curious one of rural people visited by an unusual stranger and mainly filled with a kind of tapestry of feeling and tastes. I deplore the unnecessary violence at the end, but it is otherwise a beautiful and almost experimental novel.
A dreamy feel of pastoral relationships focused more on people and less on pastoral.
Although the relationship stories were often a delight in their minimal structure, simple joys, true heart struggle, nuances--ultimately a disappointment because it lacked dynamics.
Nothing to keep the experience fresh, alive, honest, progressing made me feel a bit tired, sad and annoyed, happy for the book to be over.
So I never finished it.
Giono does, however, have true talent, promise.
I'd gladly try a change in title to see if those weaknesses overcome through author experience could produce a marvelous read.
--------So far: warm, kind, quirky, ethereal.
Aceasta este una dintre cartile descoperite in biblioteca bunicii, o editie din anii '40 pe care a trebuti sa o citesc cu deosebita grija pentru a nu o deteriora. Este una dintre cartile care mi-a placut cel mai mult. Dincolo de imputarile aduse autorului pentru exagerarea legaturii dintre om si natura, apreciez puterea evocarilor si imagistica. Acuratetea cu care sunt descrise trairile personajelor si fantasticul amestecat in dulcele mediu rural, revelatiile mistico-supranaturale sunt ceva ce nu am mai intalnit. Astept cu nerabdare sa-mi procur si sa citesc si celelate carti reprezentative!
I read this book so so long ago. Should get back to it, and re-read. I remember being completely enveloped in the world created here; very rural, very small community, very human yet magical at the same time. I remember loving it madly! but now remember very few details, just a sense of the sublime.
All you need to know about my opinion of this book is that I would read Twilight twenty times before reading this again. Horribly written, pretentious, and boring. It tries to be a novel of ideas, but only succeeds at being dull with the occasional scene of bestiality.
Perfect book to be reading as the year sinks into its darkest time.
L'œuvre de Giono qui démontre le plus son hymne à la nature et la vie. Quoique la fin des personnages principaux soient traumatisantes.
I read this ages ago and am looking for it on disk. Ecstatic!
Gently mystical, subtly revolutionary.
Un rythme de narration lent qui permet de vivre chaque moment en prenant son temps, tous nos sens ayant leur rôle à jouer. Simplicité, joie et poésie.
