https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17994.The_Code_Book
Explanations of the theories behind cryptography are woven together with anecdotes of times when code-making or code-breaking was integral to historical events.
The clarity of his writing makes the explanations of the mathematics of cryptography very straightforward without dumbing them down, and the historical connections are always fascinating.Personally, my favorite part was the section devoted to the role cryptography played in World War II.
The cracking of the Enigma at Bletchley Park was probably one of the greatest moments in nerd history.If you're fascinated by puzzles, curious about history, or you want to know what privacy really means in the 21st century, pick up this book.
You'll have a hard time putting it down.
:-)And for those who can't be bothered, here's the decoded review: (view spoiler)[This excellent book provides a fascinating history of codes and codebreaking from ancient Egypt to the modern day.
I’ll definitely be reading more of his work in the future.Some of the topics covered here aren’t technically concerned with codes and codebreaking, but deal with the translation of ancient texts such as hieroglyphics.
Fortunately, the author provides a further reading list at the end of the book, so there are plenty of future delights in store!P.S. If you actually went to the effort of decoding this review, you get a gold star.
পরায় ৩মাস ধরে পড়ে শেষ করলাম যেকোনো সিনেমাকে হার মানানো করিপটোগরাফির ইতিহাস। এই বইয়ের সতযিকারের মজা নিতে হলে করিপটোগরাফির পরটোকলগুলো বুঝে বুঝে পড়তে হবে, তবে সেগুলো বুঝতে জটিল কোনো গণিত জানার দরকার হবে না, লেখকের দকষতার পরিচয়টা সেখানেই।পৃথিবীতে বড় বড় সব যুদধগুলো হয়েছে আসলে 'কোডবরেকার' আর 'কোডমেকার' দের মধযে, যারাই পরতিপকষের পাঠানো গোপন চিঠিগুলো পড়ে ফেলতে পেরেছে তারাই কৌশলগত দিক থেকে একধাপ এগিয়ে গিয়েছে। সেই জুলিয়াস সিজারের সিজার সাইফার থেকে শুরু করে নাৎসিদের বযবহৃত এনিগমা মেশিন, আধু
প্রায় ৩মাস ধরে পড়ে শেষ করলাম যেকোনো সিনেমাকে হার মানানো ক্রিপ্টোগ্রাফির ইতিহাস। এই বইয়ের সত্যিকা
By far the best and the most interesting book on the subject. recommended to anyone interested in Cryptography and its history. I read it in three days mainly because I couldn't put it down.
পড়ে শেষ করলাম Simon Singh এর The Code Book: The Science of Secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptographyবইটির সনধান পাই গুডরিডস ঘাঁটাঘাঁটি করতে করতে। Cryptography;অরথাৎ আপনার তথযকে সরবসাধারণের আড়ালে রেখে সংরকষণ ও পরাপককে সরবরাহ করার বিদযা নিয়ে এই বই।হাজার বছর আগের রাজা বাদশাদের আমল থেকে Cryptography-র চরচা শুরু,যার সরোত এখন আপনার সোশাল মিডিয়া অযাকাউনট থেকে সেলফোনের রিচারজ কারডের বযবহারে চলছে সদরপে !চারশো পৃষঠার এই বইটিতে Cryptography-র রোমাঞচকর ইতিহাস , বিকাশের রাজনীতিক পটভূমি ছাড়াও এর গাণি
আরবেরা এই পদ্ধতির জনক।ধর্মগ্রন্থে কোন কোন শব্দ কতোবার ব্যবহার হয়েছে, এই চর্চার মাধ্যমে পদ্ধতিটির আবিষ্কার(আল-শব্দটা বেশি ব্যবহার হয়,তাই‌ সংশ্লিষ্ট ধ্বনিগুলোর বাহুল্য থাকবে এখানে)। এবার একটা সাধারণ পদ্ধতির কথা বলছি। একটা ইংরেজি Encrypted Text ধরে নিন। আলোচ্য পদ্ধতিটির সাহায্যে কোন বর্ণ বেশি ব্যবহৃত হয়েছে,তার একটা হিসেব করে আমরা "e" কোনটা বের করে নিতে পারি।স্যাম্পল হিসেবে Text থেকে বেছে নিচ্ছি তিন অক্ষরের এমন একটা শব্দ, যার শেষে ঐবর্ণটি অর্থাৎ যার আড়ালে লুকায়িত "e" আছে। এবার দেখবো দ্বিতীয় অক্ষরটিকে। পুরো Text এ যদি "e" এর পরেঐ দ্বিতীয় অক্ষরটি না দেখা যায় তাহলে নিশ্চিতভাবেই বলে দেয়া যায়,অক্ষরটি "h" এবং শব্দটা "The".
First, you look for repeated sequences of letters- words that are repeated, and which happened to have gotten encrypted the same way because they land on a multiple of the number of letters the key has.
I have a BlackBerry, so I feel like I’m supposed to be a slick techie who knows what encryption is, but I’ve never heard it explained as straightforwardly as this book:Alice wants to send Bob a letter and she doesn’t want the postal service workers to be able to read it.
Obviously, she can’t just send it in a padlocked iron lock-box, because she has no way of securely giving Bob a key.
Having read two of Sighn's other books, I picked this one.I had high expectations and it met them nicely.
The book tells the story of ciphers and encryption through history – from what the Greek and the Romans did, through the Enigma, and finally to RSA.
The style is very easy and pleasant to read, everything is pretty understandable even if you don't have a math background (sometimes to the point of being slightly inaccurate) and there are a lot of interesting stories inbetween.This book has a single downside – it's so pleasant and easy to read, that you'll be done with it in no time.
It is a wonderful and gripping tale of the history of cryptography, and presents the entire plot as a battle between the code makers and the code breakers.
For anyone interested in the matter, it is a must read, and for anyone who think they might enjoy the subject, I highly suggest it.The history contained in this near-novel doesn't merely end a long time ago, but extends up to the very present, and discusses the exciting possibilities of cryptography in the future.
If you want to understand our modern age, you should definitely read this book.
Read for the Reading Without Walls challenge, for 'a topic you don't know much about'. And even though I didn't finish it in a week, CHALLENGE COMPLETE.I really enjoyed The Code Book. The explanations were well-done, and the history lessons amazed me, which is odd because I'm not a history fan. I learned a lot about codes and ciphers and how they work, and that was the best part of it all. I liked the writing, so I think I might pick up another Simon Singh book in the future.
The extent to which human brain can produce such encryptions is beautiful... all for the sake of just one thing, secrecy!
Ý tưởng vĩ đại nhất có lẽ thuộc về Alan Turing, người có công lớn nhất trong việc hóa giải máy Enigma, khi trong quá trình giải mã Enigma ông đã hình thành một ý niệm về một cỗ máy được gọi là Turing Machine – tiền đề cho sự phát minh máy tính sau này.Ngoài ra, cũng vào thời kì thế chiến thứ hai thì lịch sử khoa học mật mã đã chứng kiến một loại mật mã bất khả xâm phạm đúng nghĩa của nó,.
In English, for example, the letter 'e' appears much more frequently than 'z' By analysis of letter frequency and knowing the language of the cipher, deciphering became quite simple.
To decipher the code, all one needed was the keyword, easy to remember, and not necessary to write down anywhere.
But each ciphered message can only be deciphered using a key.
That proved to be a bureaucratic nightmare, and as the Internet created a need for encrypted messages between individuals and online stores or other persons, the deliverer of the key became very important.
(I had argued back saying I would be fine as long as I could perform the basic calculations!)Maybe this is what growing up is about!That being said, this is a very informative book about the past, present and future of cryptography.
Singh takes us on a journey from ancient times where simple communications and hence simple codes sufficed, through a series of unfortunate events that resulted in the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots,to a time in the future when quantum cryptography might prevail.
I must admit I skipped over those pages, but might return to them at some point in the future.I recommend this book to anyone who is fascinated by ancient history, linguistics, cryptography, quantum physics, OR MATHEMATICS!
This is a *must* read before reading Cryptonomicon. Or maybe after, like I did. If you at all feel uncomfortable in your knowledge of one time pad cyphers, public/private keys, or the importance of really good cryptography for average folks, please read this book! It's sadly a bit out of date, but Singh does such a brilliant job of methodically building up the complexity in cyphers though history, that you will inevitably learn a ton.
That's all pretty juvenile, but the ciphers included in my little spy kit were the basics in modern encryption systems and you can read all about it in Simon Singh's The Code Book, an excellent primer for understanding encryption methods and a fascinating account of its development through history.Amazingly, Singh has the ability to make this rather complex topic understandable as well as entertaining.
Singh's ability to weave these stories into the complex mechanics of cryptography make for an engrossing narrative and one that has excited my intellectual imagination like few others have.So ditch the "junior spy kit." That's kid stuff.
I love a good puzzle, and this history of making, cracking, and innovating secret codes was enthralling.
I got pretty excited when I solved the first (and easiest one).
They got harder and the book became overdue at the library so I gave it up.
I even bought a book of New York Times crossword puzzles to exercise my brain, and I have since come to accept reality.
I will probably never solve an entire crossword puzzle on my own (by the way, the Wall Street Journal is sooooo much harder than NYT--just looking at them makes me feel stupid), much less crack secret codes.
i picked this up at my brother in law's house and started reading it, immediately went out and bought a copy....wow...what a FANTASTIC book...mathematically oriented non-fiction that reads like an anthology of suspense stories...highly enjoyable...
Recommendations for spy novels that capture this childish feeling are appreciated.This book details the world history of cryptography, all the way from simple letter substitution (which was easily broken once scholars discovered frequency analysis) to the possibilities presented by future quantum computers (which would render all current cryptography broken, but make way for unbreakable encryption).
These stories read as thrilling, miniature, real-life spy novels in their own right, and I've checked out the "further reading" section on each of them.Singh also touches upon the inherent conflicts of interest between the public, who want to guard their data as securely as possible, and government agencies, who want to be able to break encryption to safeguard national security.
It explores the art of ciphering codes and encryption which has developed profusely over the centuries, with alot of help from Charles Babbage and the computer.
It goes on to the key role of mathematicians in WWII particulatly the ones based in the England, who successfully decoded messages that the Germans sent to each other and it is said that without mathematicians we would've lost the war!This is an engaging insight into the history of cryptography and a must read for any puzzle wizzes, mathematicians or historians.
A history of cryptography ought to have spy stories and treasure hunts and daring wartime conspiracies, which Simon Singh provides, but he grounds it all in strikingly clear mathematical and logical explanations of cryptographic methods.
He tells the history as a back and forth between cryptographers and cryptanalysts, with one group having the upper hand at different points in history.
With the very early ciphers, I already had a background intuition about how they might be deciphered, but by the third chapter I was experiencing amazement along with cryptographers of various centuries as different ciphers were unraveled.
Prvně jsem od autora četl knihu  Velká Fermatova věta a Kniha kódů a šifer je stejně strhující. I když jsem o šifrování už leccos věděl, ujasnil jsem si pár historických údajů, jako třeba že Enigmu prvně rozlouskli Poláci. I ostatní příběhy z historie jsou rovněž oslavou lidské vynalézavosti. Na jeho psaní se mi líbí, že je to sice populárně naučné, ale své si tam najde začátečník i pokročilý. Netušil jsem, že už je teoreticky připravené šifrování, které by neměl prolomit kvantový počítač. Zajímavé je i pojednání o depozici RSA klíčů.
If you're looking for an excellent primer to the world of cryptography and cryptanalysis, then The Code Book, is the one you must lay your hands on.
Be it the cracking of the enigma during World War II, or Charles Babbage's excellent method of cracking the "Le Chiffre Indechiffrable", it is a treat for history lovers.Finally, the book is a testimony to the will power and ingenuity of countless skilled men and women, who at various points of time, have contributed in one way or the other, knowingly or unknowingly, to ensure a safer and better world for us all.
Mr Singh manages to explain concepts that should be way beyond this thickie's level of understanding.
That he manages to do so in an entertaining page turning manner is testament to his skill both as a mathematician and a writer.
This book examines how from earliest history in parallel with writing, it became necessary for human kind to devise ways to send messages in code.
Entwined with the stories of code, are the stories of people who throughout history have relied on those codes being unbreakable - in some cases paying with their lives (eg Mary Queen of Scot) when it this is proved not to be the case.
A tour de force for anyone remotely interested in cryptography.
My favorite part in the book was the explanation of Quantum Cryptography.
Having studied the basics of cryptography in my Engineering, I was delighted by the beauty with which Singh easily made accessible the difficult terrain where quantum physics, programming, and mathematics merge to form the future of information protection.
If you are only as curious as I am and don't have the patience for David Kahn's mammoth 1200 pages comprehensive history of cryptography, I think Simon Singh's book will be enough to quench your thirst!

I was fascinated by the story of the Enigma code as well as the incredible cracking of it.
Singh also covers computer encryption in a manner which is easy to understand and fascinating in its detail.The best part about this book is its accessibility.
You don't need to be a mathematician to follow how codes were developed and broken.
I was riveted by the development of cryptography in a way I never I imagined I would.
Even if you love history but are indifferent towards mathematics, you will find pleasure in this book.
Prepare to dork out with your bad self, because this book is for those of us who A) Had a code dial as a kid (like Ralphie in "A Christmas Story"), and B) Didn't get laid until at least college.
The truth is, though, that Simon Singh's "The Code Book" rocks the pants.
This guy's knowledge and history is astounding, and while much of it is beyond me to fully understand, I am enamored with the way the stories unravel.
Enjoyably crafted and with the lay reader in mind, I think many could enjoy this tome...if they could get past their worry of whether or not they will understand how to correctly Caesar-Shift once Singh has explained it.
Singh traces the evolution of encryption techniques using stories from history to illustrate.Singh takes care to also give more technical explanations for what's going on, and you can use the charts to try out some of them for yourself.Just recently, there's the story of the "runic code" that was finally solved - and it turns out it was used mostly for fun (with one of the translated messages saying, simply, "Kiss me").
So sometimes it's for fun (Pig Latin), but most of the time it's very serious (Enigma, Mary, Queen of Scots, modern data encryption).
The Code Book has wide appeal and is a good read for anyone who is of the polymath mindset. If you like history pertaining to computing or are interested in algorithms, it is a monumental book. Singh may be the best science writer out there. He has that rare ability to take complex science and math topics and explain in very straightforward layman’s terms.
Um livro muito gostoso de ler. É bem explicado e tem vários exemplos e demonstrações dos tipos de cifras e deciframento citados. Além de contar a história da criptografia (e do inverso), com personagens e situações muito interessantes. Excelente.
