https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/669.Capitalism
- That Alan Greenspan contributes an "essay" to this volume is a humorous enough set-up; his theory that laws protecting the consumer (eg: Pure Food and Drug Act) decrease freedom delivers the comedic goods.- That the book reads like a dual advertisement for The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged.
The ever charitable Ayn Rand Institute has kindly included a coupon one can send to Leonard Peikoff for a few dozen more copies of those august novels.- The essay stating that the "free" (read: social-Darwinist) market make a monopoly impossible.
States, with their anti-trust laws, are the magical source of all monopolies.
S. is already too Socialist is perhaps surprising for those that do not understand the prerequisites for freedom, but not for free man (and women, to be politically correct, sorry.- That Alan Greenspan contributes an "essay" to this volume is ilustrous enough set-up; his theory that laws protecting the consumer (eg: Pure Food and Drug Act) decrease freedom delivers deep but simple nsights into laws gowerning exchange of goods.- That the book reads like a dual advertisement for The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged.
All this proves that she was ahead of time regarding marketing.- The essay stating that the "free" (read: liberal) market make a monopoly impossible.
Capitalism really is an unknown ideal, and it's a shame that it was never given an honest chance to fully manifest.
What we have now is nowhere near capitalism- we're on a downward slippery slope to socialism...which I'm dreading more with each passing law.
I find it amazing that someone could be so dead-on in predicting what the future would be like if we had kept going in the direction towards collectivism (which we have).
She was Orwellian in her foresight about the political/social/economic/moral future of this country and the world.
Funny to read a young Alan Greenspan's arguments for eliminating the federal reserve and returning to the gold standard.
I think she terribly discounts the good that labor unions have done for working people.
I am also interested in Rand's argument about unemployment being related to government interference in the market.
That seems plausible when government interference in immigration is considered, but I don't know enough about the research and numbers - and a fully mobile world labor market doesn't seem likely anytime soon.
She appears to be mostly right about the hypocrisy of both political parties with regards to religion and reason.Rand makes the argument that it's not true that too much of a good thing is always bad, and that's correct that it's not ALWAYS true.
Ayn Rand #1 for me.
I chose this book instead of Atlas Shrugged or The Fountainhead, because this is a subject that I'm vaguely aware of.
Rand attacks every economic system other than capitalism.
This is by no means an economics treatise.
Capitalism is the only economic system which protects the individual rights.
Capitalism is the only system in which the nation prospers through production.
It creates competition in the market, which ensures best production techniques and prices.
The American Dream was made possible and European Brain-Drain was due to capitalism.This book is very much readable.
I vote for Laissez-Faire markets, in my country, India, which is a mixed economy.
The government has no business being in the business or regulation of education.
I didn't agree with everything she said, and I cringed at some of her descriptions of "savages".
Nor do I agree with her that capitalism is the *only* political system that could EVER work.
But I do agree that socialism, the path that America is unfortunately on, is a path that we want to get off, PRONTO!
But certainly, filling your own cup first and then giving to others out of the overflow is wise.
Giving willingly from your own overflowing cup is a wonderful thing...however, giving because the government is making you give isn't giving at all.
Most infuriating, I was going to give it two stars, but the consistency and occasional flashes of brilliance forced me to recant and admit it: the book, despite (and because of) its author's frightful dogmatism, succeeds in driving home an ideological agenda masterfully.I still think Virtue of Selfishness is the superior book (mostly because that one is shorter and less of a rant), but Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal is a worthy follow-up.Now, I think all libertarians should steer clear of Rand's mad dogmatism, single-mindedness, circular argumentation, amateur epistemology and intellectual inflexibility.
Her lack of curiosity and her congenital inability to fathom differing viewpoints is truly astounding.
When is this nonsense going to die its long overdue death? This books is a collection of misrepresentations, misunderstandings, straw man arguments, opinions, and conjecture. Some of her musings were never anything more than that, some were proven wrong by science or course of history, but bottom line, when you largely quote your own works of fiction as "proof" for your "theories", you're bound to be wrong at least some of the time. This book is wrong most of the time.
Two words: Raving lunacy
Rand's main theme of this book is that an absolutely free market is the most fair system, that this system is resistant to failures, such as depressions, and that this system will provide the best outcomes for all.
I don't think that it is the responsibility of the well-off of society to provide luxuries for those who don't apply themselves, but I do believe that we should provide the infrastructure and programs, such as a good robust education, health care, libraries, and food for the hungry, so that ANY young person can feel that they actually can make it out of their low position in life and that they may be free to dream of a future that they actually have the resources and hope to obtain.
You will read about students at the University of California Berkeley using violence in the name of free speech to suppress speech with which they disagree and California Governor Brown's response to that violence.
Elsewhere in the book you can examine wealth redistribution, socialism, the welfare state and what Governor Romney has to say about it.
This could have been written today and, indeed, the issues are as important as they were then.Ayn Rand makes the moral case for capitalism versus "statism" or "collectivism" which inlcudes communism and socialism.
Psychobabble.
The Cashing-In: The Student "Rebellion", about the 1960's student occupation of Berkeley and the Free Speech Movement is compelling in its applicability to the current occupation of the Wisconsin State House by protesting public workers.Says Ayn:"But there is no justification, in a civilized society, for the kind of mass civil disobedience that involves the violation of the rights of others—regardless of whether the demonstrators' goal is good or evil.
Mass disobedience is an assault on the concept of rights: it is a mob's defiance of legality as such.The forcible occupation of another man's property or the obstruction of a public thoroughfare is so blatant a violation of rights that an attempt to justify it becomes an abrogation of morality.
She answered: Metaphysics: Objective Reality; Epistemology: Reason; Ethics: Self-interest; Politics: Capitalism.
I first encountered Ayn Rand through her works of fiction as a young woman barely out of my teens.
But at least at the time I picked this book up, I had literally never encountered her arguments.
When I read it was (barely) pre-blogosphere, before the rise of talk radio or FOX News.
What I knew of history and public policy from my New York City public education made Franklin Roosevelt, Jack Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson the heroes of our times.
Shortly before, I had discovered the works of Ayn Rand and this volume, which was first published in 1966, joined with volumes of Hayek, Friedman and Mises as part of my auxiliary reading in the economics of capitalism.
- For students of economics, both young and old, the most valuable feature of the book is the Recommended Bibliography.
While less than two pages long, it contains the best of the classic works needed for a foundation in understanding economics.
The essays included in the book range from philosophy to history and commentary on current (circa 1960s) policies.
Rand does a great job of giving her philosophy in a compelling way, lots of examples and logical argumentation.
I don't agree with her dismissing of faith, but her disagreement is with those using their faith to make illogical arguments concerning economics.
I had to agree with her points.
But socialism always has a gun pointed at the head of its citizens, whether totalitarian or democratic.
The citizen is always forced to give away their wealth, whether they are rich or poor or middle-class.
And it always descends into the state using force.
Socialism is a fool's solution.
The only novel by Ayn Rand I've read is Atlas Shrugged, which, quite frankly, I thought was atrocious.
I was interested in the ideas Rand presents in it, but it just doesn't work as a novel, in my opinion.
Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal, which Ayn Rand says in the introduction "is a nonfiction footnote to Atlas Shrugged," is far more palatable, since it's just a collection of essays instead of a collection of essays under the guise of fiction.I can't say I agree with everything written by Rand and the other contributors (for example, I think it's possible to acknowledge both the importance of the early 20th century "captains of industry" and that they often failed to provide safe working conditions for their employees), but I found most of these essays to be uplifting.
My copy of this book is so highlighted and written in that it is almost an entirely different book! One of the great defenses of TRUE capitalism, not the watered down version we have today, which politicians would like us to THINK is a free market. Read it and you will see what I am talking about. Even if you HATE capitalism and think that the world is being run by giant, evil corporations and the only way to keep them in line is to have the government pull the reigns in, you should STILL read this book.
One of the best books I've ever read on capitalism, period. Easy to read, powerfully written, and unexpectedly profound, Rand covers everything from the introduction of statism into the American economy to crony capitalism to common myths about free markets and the inevitable results of bad philosophy on daily life. Absolutely worth sharing -- will make you wary of commies and leftists in general.
Read it! Read it! Read it! If you want to know why capitalism works read this book! This should be a must read for any public official or anybody who intends to venture into an intellectual debate about the virtues of the various economic systems. This book was the first purely economic book I ever read and started my leg-tingling love affair with studying the free market.
But what are the “conservatives?” What is it that they are seeking to “conserve?”A majority without an ideology is a helpless mob, to be taken over by anyone.When “the common good” of a society is regarded as something apart from and superior to the individual good of its members, it means that the good of some men takes precedence over the good of others, with those others consigned to the status of sacrificial animals.
It is tacitly assumed, in such cases, that “the common good” means “the good of the majority” as against the minority or the individual.
I finished this book, but I'm not finished with this topic or this author. Ayn Rand's philosophy resonates with me and is relevant today. It took me two readings to start to understand it, so be patient and stick with it.
El mejor del año.
Rand wanted no laws, rules, regulations hindering the free market, while Smith seemed to want a few; not too many, though.Rand stated in this book throughout, that the reason why Capitalism is "Unknown" and never really fully was, is because it has lacked a philosophical/moral reasoning and justification for it.
Rand and her ideas like to K.I.S.S.I read "The Virtue of Selfishness" before this, and it fits very nicely into the moral and philosophical framework of "Capitalism", you must know those justifications before you can begin to understand her reasoning on anything else.
Economics is rarely exciting, but the authors manage to make in interesting.One editorial review posted on the Amazon.com page for Capitalism states that the book is, "An interesting relic of the past," and goes on to call it an "outlandish piece of propaganda," but this is actually a classic example of "Extremism or the Art of Smearing" as explained in Chapter 17.
While the liberals at Amazon.com and the Library Journal might consider Rand an outlandish relic of the past, her books logically explains the philosophy and principles upon which our economic system rests.
Ayn Rand makes the point that it is not fair to compare the reality of capitalism, with all of its faults, to a utopian socialist ideal, which socialism's proponents claim has never been tried.
Capitalism in the United States is far from the utopian ideal that Rand envisions, for two reasons.
The first reason is offered by Rand: there has always been substantial government involvement in the economy in the United State, even during the 18th and 19th centuries.
Rand considers this corruption of the capitalist ideal to be a form of socialism, and therefore capitalism should not be blamed for it.
This book by novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand, (author of "Atlas Shrugged" and "The Fountainhead") is a treatise on the politico-economic branch of her philosophy of Objectivism.
The clarity of Rand’s writing style simplifies the science of economics so that anyone willing to think can become a staunch defender of capitalism.
Rand’s unique perspective upholds businessmen as moral giants, and provides all the intellectual ammunition necessary for these men to finally be recognized as the heroes that they are.
The immorality of altruism...Conventional wisdom has always seemed to say that capitalism is a cut-throat system that rewards selfishness and materialism, leaving most of society out in the cold.
I had heard plenty about Ayn Rand over the years, but haven't read any of her books until now.
Her contribution to the defense of capitalism is huge as I have never heard such well formed arguments.
Rand effectively argues that capitalism is the only morally defensible economic system.
Reading this book has forced me to reevaluate my thoughts on capitalism, leading to a much more comprehensive understanding of capitalism and its virtues as well as collectivism and its failures.
Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal was a(nother) really thought-provoking book from the ever subtle Ayn Rand (she is not subtle).
It is stimulating reading.
Especially if you enjoy mind-bendingly complicated sentence structure.
Which I do.Something I would have enjoyed would be Rand's opinion on how to practically implement her vision of government.
As I plan on reading the rest of the Ayn Rand bibliography at some point, I will see if she elucidates these and other points in her other books.
In any case, there's a lot of food for thought for anybody who makes the effort to read it.
