https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74696.The_Stone_Angel
This is where I run into a problem with the ratings.You see, The Stone Angel is a fantastic book; amazingly well-written, the character doesn't break at all and is so strong I could be tricked into believing it was the author herself, and the prose is just beautiful.That having been said, I didn't like it.
It means it's a wonderful book, but that my own literary prejudices and biases came into play whilst I was reading it and prevented me from enjoying it to its full potential.Anyways.
I'd still recommend it to people as a fantastic book, regardless of my own personal opinion on the tone.
This felt like the literary equivalent of running your fingers over an intricately carved mahogany chest. There was a sensual pleasure, the experience of savoring exquisite craftsmanship, the delight in touching quality materials and the awareness that such beauty is given to such a straight forward function.
I never dreamed that this book would blow me away. Hagar Shipley is ninety-ish and at the end of her life. The book tells both stories of her last days as well as stories Hagar remembers about her life. What a tough bird she is, hard on her older son, indifferent to her husband. This is a book that feels very, very true. I recommend it highly and I’m adding it to my list of best reads ever. One question that nags at me: Is Hagar a relative? Can I blame it on her (and my) Scotch blood?
I have read Margaret Laurence's Stone Angels several times in my life, I am now in my 70th year, and what a different age makes.
Because I am from Canada, I had to read this in high school. I cannot express how much I hate this book. I think it's well written but after reading this I was so depressed. The main character is so frustrating. She ruins her life by making poor choices and then is hateful to even her children.
Hard to put down - painful to read. Also the first book of the year that I am thoroughly pleased to have read. I'm going to have to read the rest of the cycle.
The Stone Angel as a Re-reading of BibleMargaret Laurence, the most beloved author of Canada, was greatly influenced by the Biblical stories.
The Stone Angel is a re-reading of the Biblical story of Hagar.
In the Bible (Book of Genesis) there is a story of a woman named Hagar who was a slave of Sara,wife of Abraham.
Abraham and Sarah doesn't have children, so under her direction Abraham slept with Hagar and have a son named Ishmael.In the Bible, the point of view of Hagar is neglected.
In The Stone Angel, we can find a bold woman, Hagar Shipley, who attacked the patriarchy even in old age.
The movie was good but the novel was set in the late 60's when there weren't cell phone so I guess the movie was bumped ahead. This made it hard for me to reconcile the movie with my reading of the book when it first was published. Why change the era and have Hagar talking about smoking marijuana in the seventies unless it was to appeal to younger movie goers? But, hey it's about a 90 year old woman and some of us remember the 60's and liked that decade.
I'm always at a bit of a loss to describe my feelings about The Stone Angel. I think it's really well-written. Margaret Laurence knows her shit. She can craft a sentence like Rodin crafts clay. At the same time, I don't like this story. At all. Elderly Hagar is a bitter awful person and while I understand her journey to the place, I don't feel any real sympathy for her.
I really enjoyed this tale of sparky old age by a Canadian writer. Hagar Shipley is a holy terror who leads her son and daughter-in-law a merry dance, but her reminiscences unpack a remarkable life. I loved her independent spirit, originality and sense of humour. Residential care just couldn't contain that free a spirit.
This book is the tale of an allegedly intelligent woman who systematically ruins her life through bad decisions made not out of desire or common sense, but spite. It is boring, depressing, and completely inappropriate for young adults.
I had to read this book for school and absolutely hated it. It was so hard to get into and was extremely boring.
The prose is beautiful in a classical way, and although it was written decades ago I think Laurence serves as a great example of how the conventional realist novel can still be relevant today.--(7/10) I think I'm mainly going to echo the other reviewers here in saying that this book is well-written, draws a tremendously real and three-dimensional character of a proud old woman approaching the end of her life, but that it didn't really grab me.
Maybe it was the subject matter, which felt fairly familiar, although maybe the tropes of kids-sending-mother-to-a-retirement-home stories weren't as established when this book was written almost fifty years ago.
As other reviewers have noted, Hagar is a fairly aggravating character to spend 300 pages with.
Ok. I read this when I was going through my "I haven't read any Canadian Literature besides Margaret Atwood and only her most popular books" phase.
This was one of the top ten Canadian lit books of all time, so I figured I needed to read it.
What an an authentic asshole Laurence crafted in Johnny, and the typical martyred mother in Hagar.Overall, it's a good read.
The Canadians were right.
#asusualFavorite/Memorable Quotes:“You bet on the wrong horse”—Neer-do-well son John, Hagar’s favorite son, tells his mother after he continues to be a failure.
What publisher would put out something that wouldn't sell, or not be well-written?
(We see publishers put out poorly-written pap that sells well, though; one merely needs to look at the Twilight phenomenon.)I read this well back in high school and my opinion hasn't especially changed.
The character of Hagar is entirely unsympathetic.
To top off these sins, her self-awareness of the terrible poison she exudes, the toxic presence she provides, is completely missing.
She represents exactly the kind of people that make the communities she lives in worse for her presence.
I read this first as a teenager and subsequent readings have revealed new sides of Hagar's stony character for me to ponder.While she may not be likeable, she is compelling.
Definitely her own worst enemy, she squandered her relationships with her husband and sons and,as she nears 90, is beginning to get that.
She says, referring to Bram, "his banner over me was only his own skin and now I don't know why it shamed me so", a sad moment of realization.I once saw Ann Mortifee in a one-woman show, where she did the scene where Hagar wonders who the old lady in the mirroe can possibly be.
After reading Wuthering Heights, this was another heavy book to swallow but not nearly as good.
I liked it when old, crotchety Hagar would make fun of and criticize others in her mind and sometimes out loud, but then it got old and annoying after awhile just as I suspect it would in real life.
I did like the flashbacks into Hagar's life though.
But I felt bad for the life that Hagar lived.
And I cheered for no one in the book.
I found myself becoming more like Hagar as I read more of the book.
This is a novel written in the first person, from the perspective of an old woman named Hagar.
It's basically a retrospective on her life, complete with detailed descriptions of her miserable husband, her miserable children and children-in-law, untimely death, divorce, bodily noises, etc.
The book was written in the early 1960's.
I really wanted to like this book, however I found the main character very unlikable, unfortunately (probably obvious from the description I gave above).
I generally like to keep books and re-read them, but this one is not a keeper.
It's back to the Good Will for you, Stone Angel!
What a powerful & wonderful book. I read it first as a 20-something and empathized with Hagar while appreciating the spare story-telling. Then, I gave it to my mother for her birthday. She was bowled over by it, loved it, and lent it out to her friends. Why? They were all at the age where they were taking care of aging parents. Re-reading it myself some 30 years later, it's become a much better & more personal book for me.
There were parts of this book that made me laugh out loud. The narrator of the story is a 90-year old woman who moves back and forth from today into her past. I liked the way in which you get to know how this woman thinks and come to understand some of the regrets she feels for the life she has lived.
It has been so long since I read this book ... think it high time to give it another shot. Can't remember the FEELINGS it evoked, only that it was an all out weekend read. Non-stop, got involved with the family, and Hagar Shipley, the dear old soul. Come to think about it, I've got to march right over to the bookcase and find my copy.
This is a fictional memoir of a woman at the end of her life reflecting on what it's like to be old and unwell. She also remembers the story of her life (which was mostly not very happy) and recounts this. It was a well written book but a bit too long with a lot of detail - a topic this depressing is difficult to continue reading about for so long.
I had to read this book for an English Lit. class that I was taking. I think I resented it while I was reading it, and so didn't really enjoy it, but once I was done I was glad I persevered because it was one of those books that shows you a facet of human nature (or that human nature is multi-faceted).
Margaret Laurence ranks as a great, world-class author and this book is possibly her finest. It is also very much about rural Canada. My own grandmother, who had experienced much of what Hagar had, was dying at the time I read the book and I could hardly finish it, since it seemed so gut-wrenchingly at the heart of aging.
Though I appreciate Laurence’s writing, it was difficult to find empathy for her main character, a 90 year old woman who is cranky, mean spirited and emotionally frozen. She tells the story of her life, growing up on the Canadian prairie, her unhappy marriage, the death of her son and finally her pride and fierceness in facing her own mortality.
Book is about the trials and tribulations of aging but peppered with humour and sensitivity has Hagar reflects on her lifes journey. The Stone Angel was a more interesting book than I had expected. It left me thinking????
I had to push myself through until eventually I found that there were things I could relate to in Hagar. By the end I started to like her and was really rooting for her. Kind of a nasty thing but tough as nails in a way you have to respect. Great character.
This book goes back and forth between the last days of an old woman and her recollections of her life. I found the book as a whole to be hard and cold, a difficult read--reflecting a hard and cold life. At the same time, much of the writing was vivid and poetic and a joy.
At first I didn't understand but as I read through I began to realize it was about a woman who had lived her life uncomfortably and dishonestly as another person, one she didn't like. It was a good read.I read it a long time ago, perhaps I'll read it again.
Anyone from anywhere can love & relate to this author's books, which I love intensely, but being from the prairies will help. You can visit the real stone angel when you're done this book, in Neepawa, MB.
