https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527512.The_Alice_B_Toklas_Cookbook
Most of the recipes are French because that is where Toklas and Stein spent most of their time.
Of course, the most famous recipe in the book is in the chapter which is recipes contributed by friends; Hashish Fudge, with the recommendation that two pieces are enough and a batch will cause great hilarity at any party.
The chapter on servants illustrates why the cooking could be so extravagant, as for most of their time together Stein and Toklas employed a cook/housekeeper.
Being both Jewish and lesbian, Stein and Toklas cannot have been very comfortable in Nazi occupied France.
This scintillating literary memoir of a recipe book is one result of that.That, in a nutshell, is to me the prime delight of this book.
Ernest Hemingway and Thornton Wilder number amongst the multitude of characters who pass affectionately through her pages.And the recipes read well.
After all, this IS French cooking; and THAT’S why it tastes so good.
Yet Alice’s writing is so good that one can derive great pleasure simply by reading and tasting ‘in the mind’.
Would I get anyone to part with their money?However, there is ONE (infamous) recipe that I leave well alone.
Unaware, of course, until after this book had been published.
Best book ever. The recipes are basically impossible, but that's immaterial.
There is some overlap between the autobiography and the cook book in terms of Toklas and Stein’s life together in France, their year-long visit back to America, cooking for artists such as Pablo Picasso, surviving the deprivations of two world wars etc., But the biography was actually written by Stein, not Toklas, whereas the cookbook finally lets Toklas’s words and personality shine through.
The last chapter of the book is a charming account of her last years with Stein as they tended their garden in their country home at Bilignin in the Rhône-Alps region of France.
Ovviamente non manca la citazione dal teatro di Alexandre Dumas padre, che infila ricette anche nelle opere teatrali.Ribadisco che la lettura rimane in primis quella di un ricettario: ci sono ingredienti, quantità, modi di cottura.
Nella seconda metà perde un po' di verve (molte ricette, una dietro l'altra), ma recupera nel finale con un capitolo sul personale di servizio che le ha accompagnate nella loro vita francese e gli incontri con i soldati americani.
Certo il punto di vista è assai privilegiato: il loro problema principale non è trovare il cibo, ma trovare gli ingredienti per piatti da gourmet anche durante il razionamento.
Reading her introduction, followed by Toklas's friendly, unpretentious book, really just points out what an asshat and classist Fisher was.That said, Toklas is not much of a writer, and she knows it.
Ironically, I like it for much the same reason that I liked Fisher's books from the interwar period: it's great context on a complicated time in European history.
It was interesting and a little surprising to read stories in which Stein is famous, as she's so largely forgotten today.Worth a read, but unlikely to go back, unless it's for a recipe that's since gone out of fashion.
This is not the hard-cover, ergo no introduction by MFK Fisher.
But, the recipes are presented in a similar fashion to Fisher's, i.e., there's a story and some follow-up opinions around each of her recipes.
Some of the recipes are hard to create, because I don't have access to many of the ingredients.
The ingredients and amounts seem inexact for some dishes.
My favorite recipe is "Godmother's Chicken", which also is inexact.
Her recollection of their travels around France during WW I, for example, may be burnished with details that did not actually occur, but the stories are charmingly recounted by Miss Toklas.
Not what I hoped for, but I guess I hoped for too much.
MFK Fisher's intro sold Toklas too strongly.
More than a cookbook, but generally so circumspect about her life and literature that they might as well not exist.
I guess I need to read her autobiography.
The chapter on servants is like cocktail quips tossed off without the benefit of cocktails or facial expression.
It is so cheaply acquired and so dearly paid for."On gardening: "The first gathering of the garden in May of salads, radishes and herbs made me feel like a mother about her baby -- how could anything so beautiful be mine."
She and Gertrude Stein lived in France from 1907 until her death in 1967, and that included both World Wars.
But even during the wars, her anecdotes are from the perspective of living under the privations imposed by Germany and saving up for the celebration she knew would be coming when France was finally liberated.In the village two of the shopkeepers were to become very useful to me.
In which case was it not mine to purchase what they offered?The book is most interesting for its anecdotes; the recipes are interspersed among them.
This is really great, partly because it's got a ton of anecdotes and little stories about her artist lesbian ambulance-driver life with Gertrude Stein in France just pre- and during WWII, and partly for the wild prewar French recipes (pheasant stuffed with cottage cheese?
There are also a bunch of stories from Occupied France, and this image of these ex-pats flowing across the country from place to place, hoarding and swapping food.
The story that has most stayed with me is when she watched a German soldier buy a kilo of butter, bite off a corner of it, grimace, and throw it over a wall.
A kilo of butter!
che delizia questo ricettario di alice b. toklas in cui le ricette sono il punto di partenza per raccontare la vita quotidiana in francia (e la vita della inossidabile coppia stein/toklas), parlare di gusto, cercare l'origine di alcuni piatti famosi. per quanto quasi tutti i piatti siano di una pesantezza incredibile (visto il modo di cucinare di oggi) e non sia certo un ricettario per vegetariani- ho letto con piacere le elaborate preparazioni e l'ho trovato un libro incredibilmente piacevole e gustoso, anche per lo stile fresco e semplice dell'autrice
Take half a pound of butter, add a cup of cream. This sums up pretty much all the recipes in this interesting cookbook cum memoir by Alice B" Toklas. Living in France in the twenties and thirties meant eating classical cuisine and Alice both supervised the series of cooks who worked in their household or she did the cooking herself.My arteries were clogging as I was reading. I did not dare try any of the recipes for fear I might drop dead on the spot. Different times...The memoir part was more interesting than the recipes.
This is quite possibly my favorite cookbook. It's very personal and it covers the art of french entertaining. I think it's a perfect supplement to Julia Child's Master the Art of French Cooking. You get so much with this book: a great French cookbook, a neat narrative about mid-century Paris, the recipes of countless other celebrities, and the amazing wit of one of the greatest women of the 20th century. It's so funny how bold she is about how good the recipes are.
Too bad I can't link to my edition, a small 1960 Anchor Books paperback. Probably one of my favorite cookbooks of all time, though I have never made a thing from it. This summer I swear I will make Scheherezade's Melon. It will mean adding even more useless bottles of liqueurs to my already overstocked bar. No matter--it must be done. I also long to make a Custard Josephine Baker just so I can call it such. This is an utterly charming and absorbing read.
My recollection is that there were a few recipes I would like to try but that many of them would require adaptation. These are somewhat like medieval recipes in the sense that they don't have the ingredients conveniently listed before the instructions.
This older book is more than a cookbook of obsolete recipes, not including the Hashish Brownies. Alice B and her life partner Gertrude travel around Europe in Wartime, visiting the rich and famous and eating at fab restaurants. I say, give it a miss.
I liked reading the stories in this cookbook. If you want to make any of the dishes, make sure you have lots of butter, cream, and hog fat !
At times, very clever and entertaining. Mostly? The recipes impeded every story and I just got bored, sadly.
The descriptions of the food are incredible--both because of the elaborate nature of many of the dishes, the copious inclusion of cream and butter, and because of Toklas's delicious and funny asides even within some of the recipes.
The recipes enter as digressions in particular memories of dinner parties, picnics, and outings.
(These last descriptions of her garden are particularly lush and pleasing.) The ritual of preparing food becomes a corollary to living an artistic life and an integral part of living a full, reflective, friend-filled one.
There's a snobbish and racist section about trying to find good servants--an element of the modernist generation as cringe-worthy from Toklas as it is from Woolf.
Puree of artichoke which sounds like a pain in the ass, but she even say that it's worth the pain in the ass.
Many recipes were fine until they mentioned an ingredient I'm not prepared to use.
Most of the chicken recipes say you should cover the bird in back fat of pork which sounds like the best idea ever but I have high cholesterol.
And I don't like cooking with wine.They had a good life.
That seems sad.The introduction to this book by M.F.K. Fisher is INSUFFERABLE.
I had forgotten just how blind Fisher could be, how condescending and tactless.
Şi a apărut: un singur exemplar, într-o librărie mică, genul de loc unde îmi şi închipuiam, de fapt, c-o să dau peste ea.Ştim că în celebrul cuplu Alice-Gertrude Stein, Alice era cea care gătea.
După ce Gertrude a murit, lui Alice i s-a propus să-şi scrie memoriile, lucru pe care l-a refuzat, argumentînd că Gertrude se ocupase deja de treaba asta, în Autobiografia lui Alice B.
Florica Sincu, Editura Humanitas).„Alice, talk less!“, gluma pe care tovarăşa ei de-o viaţă i-o tot administra din cînd în cînd, a lucrat, din nenorocire, am spune unii dintre noi, aşa că Alice a refuzat să vorbească direct despre viaţa lor.


This was the most charming find ever. A historical memoir revolving around the meals of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, who cooked for them, how ingredients were sourced, entertaining, and how they got through two wars. The recipes vary in complexity and I am not a foodie at all but it was interesting to hear about continental tastes and the elaborate production that went into cooking. I've passed on some recipes including proper hot chocolate, French onion soup, and home made curacao liqueur. I recommended this book highly.
This book has quite a notorious (and undeserved as such) reputation. It is in reality a lovely, informative and entertaining book about what eating and cooking in France, in one's own home, friends homes, great homes and also restaurants grand and humble, during the first half of the 20th century was like. Toklas takes us through the end of WWII, documenting the shortages and occupation by the Germans.And TONS of recipes, which are rather dated, but most you'll want to try, especially the desserts and roasted chickens.Loved this book.
Stein'a yemeğe gelen Paris tayfası hakkında bir şeyler okuyacağımı sanıyordum ama sadece Toklas'ın zaman/mekan tanımayan yemek tutkusu ve 20.yy'ın ilk yarısında tomurcuklanan Yemekteyiz tohumunu görebildim. Tariflere gelince, isimleri çok eğlenceli fakat ağır ve yağlı. Bir yemeğe kalıp kalıp tereyağı koymaktan bahsediyoruz. İki tatlıyı denedim ve sürpriz, kimse yiyemedi. Çıkardığım iki ders:1) Fransız mutfağı bana/bize göre değil.2) Sevgililerin yazdığı kitaplar arasında seçme yapacaksan yazar olanını seç, en azından edebi bir şeyler bulabilirsin.
Nel libro c’è la storia di mezzo secolo di vita di due donne che si trasferiscono dall’America alla Francia, Alice Toklas e Gertrude Stein, di cui ammetto non sapevo nulla. Attraverso ricette, colazioni, pasti frugali o luculliani la Toklas ci racconta di come hanno vissuto durante le due guerre, dei personaggi che hanno condiviso la tavola con loro. Un libro che incuriosisce ma dal quale mi aspettavo qualcosa di più.Ma quanto burro consumano i francesi?
Alice B., oh Alice B. She's as smart as a whip, so bewitching, so generous. Her love of life and for Gertrude Stein (to whom she never refers otherwise) come through in every sentence. Can anyone ever be as cool as these two ladies? They drive a car called Aunt Pauline all around France during the war and make soldiers do what they want. Plus the recipes are all amazing and will make you wish people still cooked like that.
I wouldn't read it for the recipes unless you like using lard, heavy cream, butter and pork fat, but I loved the way the memoir was woven in with the recipes. Reading this book made me very nostalgiac for France. The description of Stein and Toklas's various servants is an interesting glimpse of class in this time period. It also describes what life was like for Toklas and Stein during the war.
In anticipation of the upcoming MOMA exhibition of the "Stein Collection: Matisse, Picasso and The Parisian Avant-Garde," I've been reading the works by and about the expat community in Paris. I read Alice's cookbook as a memoir of her travels, gardening & culinary experiences. A delightful read with remarkable insights about the differences between French and American culinary styles.
