https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3246224-born-of-fire
Now I can talk about how much I loved this book, and how Syn has changed my life.I cannot believe that the stupid publishers did not want to publish this book.
I wanted to love him to pieces as I read this story.
There is so much I love about Syn!Okay, Shahara.
And, I must admit, you proved yourself to be a worthy match for Syn. The way you made his heart feel to know that someone really loved him....I'll tolerate you just for that.
You know how to take care of yourself and your man.
Did I tell you how much I love Syn?
5 stars – Paranormal/Sci-Fi RomanceIf there was ever a hero that I wanted to hold and gently rock in my arms while crooning a sweet lullaby or win a giant, plush teddy bear from playing one of those fair games for him, it’s Syn from Born of Fire.
Bearing witness to his pain brought tears to my eyes a few times, but it also makes Syn’s and Shay’s HEA that much sweeter.Born of Fire is an awesome paranormal/sci-fi romance, with a hero you’ll want to hug tight, cherish, and forever love and keep safe.
The biggest problems for me are the repetitious, tell-don't-show prose, her over-use of the technique of setting off one sentence as its own paragraph for emphasis, and the clichéd and overblown characterizations.For instance, our protagonist Shahara's introduction, after the initial promising start, gets really annoying really fast as it goes on about how responsible Shahara feels for her reckless wastrel sister and her other siblings, how poor they are, how determined she is, what a tough life they've had, how guilty she feels, and I'm just, lordy, can't we get this information through scenes rather than exposition?Syn's introduction is no better.
five out of five if I could I would give it a six that's how good this book is
Syn doesn't hurt her when she comes to turn him in even though she shoots him, pays for her sister's hospital visit when they're about to throw her out, bails her other sister and brother out of jail numerous times, takes the rap for a sister, pays for the same sister's ship to be fixed after she was attacked - but then Shahara thinks he's a liar so he can't be trusted.
She turns him in after doing a blood vow which means a lot in her job title justifying it because of semantics and when she finds out he's been horribly tortured because of it, she thinks he's a liar and can't be trusted so she shouldn't feel too guilty.
Listened via audioHad I not been trapped in a car.....I would have never finished this book. Maybe I can give this 1.5 starsOk so I probably HATE this heroine more than any heroine I have ever read. I found zero redeeming qualities. She was a self righteous bitch throughout the entire book. Sin was a good hero and deserved so much better!
Syn thought he could escape by turning in his father to police.
But of course, when Syn enters her life, she begins to learn just how naive she has been.There are a lot of twists and turns in the book as Shahara ends up joining forces with Syn and going on the run.
She begins to fall in love with him, all the while knowing she may have to betray him to save her sister in the end.
Fortunately, in the midst of that mess, there is a great dynamic between Syn and Shahara.
This was the second Sherrilyn Kenyon book I ever read, the first being Infinity and this is what got me hooked on her writing and The League.
And the author writes them all so I think that they are all real.The writing, it’s from Sherrilyn Kenyon, not all her writing is good but a lot of it is and this has to be one of her best-written books.
Even though this was one of the first books by Sherrilyn Kenyon that I read it still remains one of my favourites, I recommend giving it a go.
But personal issues aside, this was better than average, so it would be unfair to rate it with just 2.All I can think of is 'what a let-down' after the amazing Born Of Night:( I had very high hopes for this one, but unfortunately they didn't come true.
I'll admit that Syn was a good hero, but compared to Nykyrian he's not worth a dime.
He was just a step beyond sainthood, which was kind of silly and unneeded; I would have liked him anyway.I had however, huge issues with the heroine.
How can you like a heroine who's pet-name for the hero is 'convict'?
The second installment of The League was a great read and was actually even better than Born of Night, which I also thought was a 5-star read.
The best part of the book was our hero, Syn, a man of mystery, intelligence, humor, charm and strength.
As tortured soul who was subjected to unspeakable acts of abuse, torture, betrayal and neglect, I really just want to hug (and kiss) Syn throughout the book.
The heroine, Shahara was interesting enough that I liked them as a couple, but I thought her character could have been a little stronger and more developed.
And I love Vik!In Born of Night I remember Syn saying that he had had a horrible childhood, but that Nykyrian's had been worse.
We knew that Syn was the son of a horrible criminal, and we knew that his wife had left him when she found out, but we didnt know much else.
I dont know if that is because Nykyrian came first and its lost its novelty, or because Syn never seemed quite as downtrodden.
It was his way of coping, but it also made him seem like he didnt need saving as much as Nykyrian did.
I feel like he compromise more than she did in the end, and I feel like for all the story telling, the end got a little rushed.
She really drove home the abuse in this book and coming off of Born of Night it was a little hard to read.
I know these are her earlier works and I've read a bit of her history, so maybe she was working through some stuff, but 4 characters with stories of abuse, torture and neglect were more difficult to swallow.I know negative, negative....
It got 3.5 stars because I just can't not love Syn. He is such a contradiction that you have to appreciate him.
My heart ACHES with how amazing this book was!First thoughts: I LOVE the diversity of this story!
The son of Idirian Wade (a SERIOUSLY evil infamous criminal) he is the quintessential heroic character; wrongfully accused of an atrocious crime (killing and raping Kiara), conquering an impossible past and maintaining his inner morality, loyal, and beyond guarded- and understandably so.
I absolutely LOVE Syn and ache for him CONSTANTLY throughout this book!
The emotional building of love and trust between Syn and Shahara was phenomenal, and the climax absolutely gorgeous!
I loved it, and Sherri made it believable in readdressing the issue of Shahara's inability to have children as a result of her rape.
While I normally had a tender heart for tortured hero, Syn’s story felt a lot like Nykyrian’s in the previous book of this series.
Both Shahara and Syn would have these spurts of monologues throughout the book.
Furthermore, some of those lengthy conversations and monologues could be cut down, in my opinion, as I thought the book was way too long for the content delivered.Finally, I thought it was odd that the author actually didn’t write anything about Shahara meeting Kiara (Nykyrian’s wife) at the hospital (this was the scene at the end of Born of Night, where Shahara was first introduced).
Bad boys with a sob story.
Histories that are used as excuses as to why they are the unemotional robots that they are, only to find out they have a Pillsbury dough-boy center, full of snot and tears just like every other person on the planet (universe if you're reading sci-fi).
The chick in this read was determined not to see reason even when it was shoved down her throat.
Still, no sympathetic character here.I did like some of the backstory of Syn and his family.
I would have liked to have read about more of his life.Not bad.
Will read the next one.
Really exceptional series by Sherrilyn Kenyon. I can't believe these books are re-releases, I've never heard of them! But I am oh, so glad to have found them! This is the Sherrilyn Kenyon I know and love and can't wait to read the next installment. If you like paranormal romance SK style, you'll love this!
I loved it, Ive been meaning to start this series for forever, after reading Born of Night, I gave thanks to the Book Gods that this series has many books already written and ready for me to indulge in and no waiting is necessary.
I have 2 friends, (Sandy, Marta) that have been telling me for a couple years now to hurry up and get started, thanks for the push guys, your probably gonna be sick of me updating you on a daily basis by the time I catch up.
I love her worlds and her tortured characters.
This couple is the most untrusting and bipolar I have read in a while, but I still enjoyed the story.
I enjoyed book 1 but this was something else, much better and it corrected everything that annoyed before.In this installment we have the most tortured hero I have EVER read about, so fans of this type of heroes: don't wait any longer, this is the book you have been looking for.
I just kept thinking: I'll love you, baby,LOL, just call me.But it was so much more than the amazing hero.
I loved that she wasn't perfect and just kept screwing things up but was still able to fix them up at the end.
I really wish his hea would have been a heroine that had compassion for the hero, loyalty for the hero, less judgmental, and more supportive.Syn proved his worth over and over to Shahara by his actions, behaviors, generosity, and kindness.
He was total alpha male with demons of his past chasing his every moment but he still worked to be an honorable, respectable man.I am so glad that I read book #4 and #5 of the League series before this and got to see Syn in each of them happy, healthy, and thriving with the Sentella group doing his medical and fighter thing.
From the bits in the previous book (Born of Night) I expected Shahara to be totally kick-a$$, a smart and powerful bounty hunter, and while she does have moments, her character just isn't all that strong or smart for much of the middle of the story.
My nits with Born of Fire didn't keep it from being entertaining and I am looking forward to the next book as the story moves to Syn's son with Nyk's son as a supporting character.
Part of me really wants to give this a 5 star, just because I was emotionally happy to be reading a GOOD story after a few less-than-satisfying ones.So many people know of Kenyon's other, more popular, Dark Hunters series.
Given that I've only read 1 book in that particular series, it's not completely fair for me to compare the two, but when I read book 1 of the League, I found it SO much more interesting than book 1 of Dark Hunters.
I can't begin to convey just how enamored I am of the world built in The League series.
There was some inconsistencies like it should have been when Nykyrian was in the hospital after he was attacked by Kiara's father, Syn visited him with Shahara.
But in book 2, Syn and Shahara were not yet reconciled by then and Syn was still denying his love for Shay when Nykyrian visited Syn(already healed from the attacked) trying to convince him that he's making a huge mistake by not eating his pride.Although Ms Kenyon explained it in the beginning of her book that the time difference was intentional so as to avoid any future difficulties with the differing publication houses.
But, I have to say, I was extremely pissed at Caillen when he said all those horrible things about Syn. Nykyrian'a cameo in the end was very exciting for me, considering that he wasn't in the rest of the book at all, but that's understandable since Syn and Shahara were on the run and looking for the chip and he was with Kiara.
I will admit that I almost cried when Shahara "betrayed" Syn the second time and when she was talking to his mother.
And, I almost cried tears of joy when I was reading the Epilogue and Shahara told Syn that they were going to have a baby!
I wanna read it over and over (yeah, it's that good).
And, yes, while at first she looked at all convicts as the same 'bad people who consciously made bad choices' the more she got to know the real Syn, the man behind the reputation, the more she saw the error of her thinking.
We made it." Then under his breath, he added, "Granted it was by our short hairs, but I haven't killed us yet."-Syn, Shahara, Vik, & NeroSyn closed his eyes as he savored the taste of her body.
"I'm not even going to go there."-Shahara, Syn, & Vik
Penjahat yang dituduh super sadis tapi punya hati nurani dan menyembunyikan luka batinnya dibalik sikap mesum, joke garing dan kalimat-kalimat sarkastiknya.Shahara juga harus berdamai dengan nerakanya sendiri.
Bantuan ogah-ogahan yang diberikan gadis ini saat terjebak dalam petualangan penuh aksi bersama Syn hampir di sepanjang buku membuat usaha kerasnya untuk menyelamatkan leher Syn adalah cerminan ketulusan perasaannya yang terdalam.Setelah mengenal Ichidan Universal, aku makin menyukai seri ini.
Ending buku ini HEA yang alot, tapi aku bersyukur karena SK tidak terjebak untuk memberikan HEA ala sinetron untuk Syn dan Shahara."Thank you for looking into the eyes of nothing and seeing a man you could love."My Rating :Star : 5/5Bikini : 2.5/5
Syn is on the run.
Only this time the person chasing him is his best friends older sister and a part of him, the part south of his brain kind of wants to be caught.
But as much as Syn wants Shahara, can he trust her?
A life time spent being betrayed and hurt by the ones who should love him has made Syn wary and Shahara has an agenda of her own.
We first meet Syn in Born of Night and I am so glad we didn't have to wait long for him to get a book of his own.
Syn has 'hero mat
But as much as Syn wants Shahara, can he trust her?
A life time spent being betrayed and hurt by the ones who should love him has made Syn wary and Shahara has an agenda of her own.
This gave both Syn and Shahara issues that they both had to deal with before they could move on and conceive of being happy.
But, I really loved seeing them both together Kenyon really got their chemistry spot on, the witty banter and sexual tension between them leaves you racing to read the next page.
Although Born of Night was amazing, I liked Born of Fire a lot better because of certain, I don’t know someone by the name of SYN?
In turn those items mentioned are what ultimately bring these two very stubborn people together with a love for each other that rips your heart out all the way to the end of the story…once they are finally together that is!Shahara’s fierce love and protection for her family, as well as kicking some serious ass, if a force to be reckoned with.Syn….well, what can I say about him?
Fierce, funny, witty, smart…should I go on?
Favorite quote from Syn (p22)Men were blind fools and women weakened the soul and stole the heart.
Then when they had both in their possession, they stomped them into the ground.Favorite quote from Shahara (p41)Men were cruel and abusive by nature and she'd die before she ever submitted to one.I loved, loved, loved Syn and wish he were a real person just so I could hug him.
Poor guy.
It's so obvious he's a good guy yet she can't (won't) see it because she needs the money turning him in will get her.
I think this is a very good plot, the characters are very well drawn.
What I did not find believable was that at the end, when the hero comes to the realization that he is worthy to love and be loved, that he could overcome a lifetime of conditioning to do so.
Some of the themes were bonechillingly realistic, and made me think about the world as it is.
That is the reason I'd recommend this book in spite of the flaws.
