https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353306.Tryst
I've just finished this incredible book and my eyes are red and snot is dripping from my nose and I have the worst headache from sobbing uncontrollably, and all I can say is I wish I could feel this way more often about a book.- I LOVED this book.- I ADORED this book.- I wish I had written this book.- I wish this was one of those black & white movies from old Hollywood ala "The Ghost & Mrs. Muir".- I wish I had read this when I was 17 years old.and my highest praise of all....wait for it....it's coming....drumroll....- If this book was a man, it would be Richard Armitage.(I know, I know, I mention him far too often on Goodreads)This book was pure romantic escapism, pure comfort, pure old-fashioned delight, simply charming, and utterly Hannah-lishious.
Not sure why this book came into my mind this past summer, but I was determined to read it again.
This was my very favorite book as a young girl and I remember taking it of the library numerous times.
This old fashioned book is out of print, but I found it in a small library (shared by our high-school) in my town.
This nostalgic story was just as good a read to me as it was way back when.
It will remain one of my very favorites...good writing...good story and still as magical to me as it was when I was twelve.
This is the sweetest ghost story I've ever read!
I rather like ghost stories, but haven't read very many.
In fact, I've probably written more of them than I've read.
It's because I don't go for the typical "scary ghost story" as much as "ghosts as a manifestation of people who cannot be forgotten." I've been looking for a ghost story like this one and am so pleased I've found it!
The only book that has come near to meeting this foggy, undefined criteria is A Fine and Private Place.
That was a good book, but Tryst touched me so much more.
Gripped tightly in one hand she carried her burglar tools- nail scissors with curved points, a button-hook, and some wire hairpins stolen from Aunt Effie’s dressing-table.”The story of what had lead Sabrina to take such drastic action, and of what happened next, was lovely.
His spirit found its back there, found strangers in the house, found a kindred spirit in his room.It wouldn’t be fair to say much more about the story than that.There were some lovely moments, some amusing, some heart-warming, some sad, as Hilary made his way home and as Sabrina curled up in an armchair to read from his bookshelves.
I read Hannah's reveiw of this book this summer and went right to my library's on-line catalog to put a hold on it.
When I went back to try again the book was no longer in the library's collection.
I was disappointed...until I went shopping at 'the Friends of the Library' book sale...where lo and behold there it was waiting for me.And I'm glad it was, I really enjoyed this, it was comfortable, easy and familiar.
Then I wondered if there had been a movie based on the book...
Anyway it's one of those "feels so familiar" kind of books.
A novel about a young woman who, as tenant of an English country house, becomes fixated on a room she’s not supposed to enter, and the man whose room it used to be.
1939.Full review (and many other recommendations) posted on my site: http://anotherlookbook.com/tryst-elsw...This book has been on my "to read" list for over two years--and what's more, it's been a nagging book on that list for over two years!
I've known since reading the brief plot description that this would be a very special book.
If you can get your hands on a copy without breaking the bank, I'd recommend it wholeheartedly.
In the forbidden room at the top of the stairs, Sabrina found love...and enchantment." That is what it said on the back cover copy of the Tempo paperback I found in my elementary school (I was too young to appreciate it), but there is so much more to this evocative and unforgettable story.
The heroine is 17, and sensitive, self-contained, old for her years - it is inevitable that she will fall in love with the first handsome man she encounters.
How can anyone not fall in love with a book that begins: Sabrina had never picked a lock in her life, but it was done every day in books.Four and a half stars.
Sabrina immediately becomes fascinated by the locked room on the top floor and picks the lock, only to discover a room filled with books and mementos that looks as if the owner stepped out only recently.
Without giving too much away, I can tell you that the room's owner ends up returning to his room (under some unusual circumstances) and finds a kindred spirit in Sabrina.
To these people I would argue that "you're thinking too much!" This is a book to read on a lazy afternoon, or to stay up too late just so you can finish it, not a book for close reading and intense discussion.
I will be keeping this book close.
This is an old favorite from my youth and I pulled it out recently to see if it would still give that sense of comfort and innocent love, mixed with gentle spookiness. It does, in spades! I'm planning on reading more Elswyth Thane and recovering old-fashioned courtly romance--I'm sick of brassy, bold, foul-mouthed characters!
4.5 stars! A perfect comfort read -- a lonely, quiet girl who loves books, an old English house, a locked and forbidden room ...the premise hooked me right from the start. What she finds behind the locked door is her destiny and her fate -- charming, heartbreaking, and definitely a keeper!
Ghost story masquerading as romance, it is strange, but compelling, and the ending brings waterworks.
Touching, Funny & Charming! A Beautiful Read! I Loved It!
Behold, a book with a more unhealthy romantic relationship than Edward and Bella’s in Twilight.
But here’s what I got.Teenage Sabrina is not content with her life; she doesn’t fit in.
Hilary comes home, falls in love with Sabrina’s beauty, and tries to speak to her.
She only knows that Hilary is around because of subtle ghostly actions.That’s what bothered me so much about the story.
Sabrina fell in love with a room, not a person.
He knows three things about Sabrina: 1) She is pretty, 2) Her family sucks, and 3) She’s obsessed with him.
At the end of this book I had tears streaming down my cheeks. The characters were so well-developed and seemed natural - Hillary and Sabrina acted right on target for their ages. The plot was great because there was no big revelation or climax when the "mystery" is discovered - it's just a soft, calm, love story nearing perfection... I do wish it had been a big more SENSUAL though, not erotic with bodice-ripping and all that, but maybe a little more sexy. Still, any book that can make me cry like that is worth 5 stars!
What a great ghost story to read on a blustery blizzardy day in western New York! Set in a haunted house in a world ready to explode into the second world war, we find a young English girl falling madly in love with a recently deceased pilot and secret agent. There's such a strange connection between the two. And did you ever think of what it is like to be a ghost?
This book has everything your average Nora Roberts supernatural novel does not: likeable characters, writing above a second grade level, a great plot, emphasis on building relationships and a lovely ending. It's an old book though--1939--and that makes it all the better of a find. Great read!
This is such an old book, I think I first read it in high school...in the 70's and it was old then. It is the very first supernatural love story, written for young adults, that I had ever read. I loved it, and eventually was able to find a beautiful copy of it offered online.
And I’m sure all of us here at Goodreads will agree that this is one of the best possible ways to learn about a person.There’s just one important thing Sabrina doesn’t know about Hilary—but I’d better not say.To be perfectly honest, my adult self finds all kinds of fault with Tryst.
I don’t think I noticed any of this when I was a kid, and because the book is already part of my personal pantheon of favorites, it doesn’t spoil it for me now.
I’m guessing, though, that an adult who reads this book for the first time is unlikely to love it as I do.
Brilliant little novel about Sabrina a slight seventeen year old who feels that she has come 'home' when her Father takes a house on a year long lease.
Nuns Farthing is the country home of the Shenstone family and the lease is on condition that they leave the one locked room in the house along; it is the 2nd son's Hilary's and he hasn't been able to clear it out as he is abroad on government business.Finding her way into the room with the complicity of Mrs Pilton the housekeeper, Sabrina finds herself drawn to the absent Hilary; she enjoys reading his books and trying to get to know him through the things he left behind.
What a treat. Something had to happen, but did not expect the ending.
What a great, romantic read! Tryst is the story of a relationship between a young woman and a ghost. Thane is an eloquent writer. The only faults that I found with this book were the fact that the ending left me wanting to know more about the characters, and that it was a bit predictable. Nevertheless, the ending will make you cry...
An old, English mansion, a locked room with books inside - my heart is pounding already. This book is the perfect combination of spooky tension and ghostly encounter. I am in love with this lovely little book.
One of the best love stories of all time .... in my opinion, right up there with Catherine and Heathcliff, Elizabeth and Darcy, and Romeo and Juliet!
A perfect little love story, very romantic. Short, so can easily be read in a day.
I remember when I first read this and many of the Elswyth Thane books.
The books were in the adult room of the converted house of Fayetteville Library on a bottom shelf near a window.
I discovered my paperback copy of Tryst a number of years ago and reread it then and did this reread as a palate cleanser while reading the last Robin Hobb book.
I don't think our library has a copy, but I do know of people I would recommend this to.
It is that kind of book.
One passage did leap out at me (this is towards the end of the book): "She [Sabrina] would watch people in buses and trains and restaurants with a kind of envious awe--people who seemed to know exactly what to say and do, people who lived competently as wives or mothers, responsible for the happiness of men they had married and children they had borne.
I wondered what would have happened to her had she not met her ghostly lover, and whether it would have been possible for her to find happiness.
But that's a different book.
I think the Secret Garden was the first books that I remember from my childhood. Tryst is the first novel that I remember reading as a young teen, and it made a lasting impression on my heart. It's such a sweet and romantic story... true romance, not like the stuff written today... with a supernatural twist. I finally was able to purchase it from Ebay so that my granddaughter can fall in love with it, too.
Tryst is a wonderful, soul-soothing read and a nice retreat from the modern, hectic world. I wasn't sure what to expect (how could a love story between a ghost and a mortal ever end well?) but I fell in love with the characters and even though the ending was a bit abrupt, it worked for me. I will definitely read more novels by this author if I can find them!
I read this book as a teen and loved it. Read it once or twice more over my adult life and loved it again. I still feel that same bittersweet longing. This may have been her best book, although I liked them all.
I love this book as much now as I did when I was a young girl. It is well written and a wonderful ghost story. I wish there could be more books like this. I have looked for this book for some years and finally found a copy. I was thrilled. I highly recommend it.
