https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321538.Collected_Poems
The stars are not wanted now: put out every one;Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun;Pour away the ocean and sweep up the wood.For nothing now can ever come to any good.  . . W.H. Auden, "Twelve Songs," Song IX (1936)Rather than pen a review of a "collection" of such sublimity in Auden's oeuvre, this is simply in homage.Unless you're studying a poet, it's doubtful you read a book of poems beginning at page 1 and ending at, here, page 897. To me, a collection of poetry such as this, created by
The stars are not wanted now: put out every one;Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun;Pour away the ocean and sweep up the wood.For nothing now can ever come to any good.
I think most literati recognize Song IX of Auden's "Twelve Songs," which begins "Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone...." (1936) (quoted in full in the endnote *), made popular in the modern day by the film Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994).
People are always surprised to hear this is Auden's, but it is:As the poets have mournfully sung,Death takes the innocent young, The rolling-in-money, The screamingly-funny,And those who are very well hung.

I think he was British to the core though he may also have loved New York City, Germany and Austria.One of the reasons to read a “collected” or “complete” works is to see the development of another poet and to see overall what they wrote instead of simply what has received the official stamp of approval or which is easily anthologized.
I don't regret reading it because a "selected" editor might have left out the poems I liked best, but it was a slog.
The greatest poet of the past 100 years.
I first became aware of Auden in my early teens after hearing a reading of Funeral Blues in the movie Four Weddings and a Funeral. That poem enchanted me and I have been an Auden fan since! This collection of poems may seem a bit daunting because of the size; good for picking up and reading a few at a time or getting lost in Auden's spell-binding language for hours at a time.
I will be reading this book until I die.
CODAFrom Archaeologyone moral, at least, may be drawn,to wit, that allour school text-books lie.What they call Historyis nothing to vaunt of,being made, as it is,by the criminal in us:goodness is timeless.August 1973. (the last word...)
Lullaby Lay your sleeping head, my love, Human on my faithless arm; Time and fevers burn away Individual beauty from Thoughtful children, and the grave Proves the child ephemeral: But in my arms till break of day Let the living creature lie, Mortal, guilty, but to me The entirely beautiful.
Soul and body have no bounds: To lovers as they lie upon Her tolerant enchanted slope In their ordinary swoon, Grave the vision Venus sends Of supernatural sympathy, Universal love and hope; While an abstract insight wakes Among the glaciers and the rocks The hermit's sensual ecstasy.
I don't usually read poetry anymore, but when I want to this is definitely the book I turn to.
So I got a very big introduction to Auden...I feel like the Auden, maybe beginning around "Age of Anxiety" era, got more enigmatic with his poetry after that and uses obscure words, and it is clear from his poetry that he is very well-read and a lot of his poetry is intertextual, reacting to or referencing literature and scholars/poets/authors.
"In Praise of Limestone" I think is a good example, I don't think the imagery gets as out there as say surrealist poets and it doesn't seem as obscure as The Waste Land, but the meaning to it to me is pretty much impenetrable.
Why You Should Read Auden and 2) Why You Should Not Read Auden.I. Why You Should Read Auden:--Auden was a master of virtually all poetic forms employed in English.--Auden's range extended from the melancholy to the cheeky.--Auden made poetry out of everyday life and friendships.--Auden's Dichtung und Wahrheit is a marvelous exploration of the complex statement we all make at one time or another: "I love You."--Auden's poem, "In Memory of Sigmund Freud," underscores a fundamental fact about his poetry: he had thought through and gained command over virtually every dimension of human experience.--Auden was not afraid to write biting verse about contemporary issues while preserving poetic distance and form (not giving in to shocking ranting, for example.)--Auden's classical frame of reference could be challenging, but he still managed to write more directly and clearly than T.S. Eliot, whose mantle he was thought to have donned upon Eliot's departure from the scene.--Auden managed to be intelligent in virtually every line he wrote; the connective tissue between his perceptions was his gift for analysis and valuation.--Auden both embraced and transcended his homosexuality, normalizing the facts and truths.II.
Having read an autobigraphy, interspersed with poetry, of Auden by Charles Osborne, I think I have a better understanding, holistically, of the man and his writing.
He was sometimes outrageously gay, and belonged to an Oxford group which included Christopher Isherwood and Stephen Spender.In the thirties he, like Spender, had left leanings, but later became disenchanted and veered to the right.
Like Evelyn Waugh, he returned to religion, in his case the Church of England, which he had abandoned while at Oxford.
The other six were spent in Greenwich Village, New York, where they had a flat.During the last years of his life, Auden returned to Oxord, where he was provided with a cottage for a nominal rent.
Auden tends to either hit the mark with great skill, or be totally off base.It's nice to have the whole collection of poems, but there are a lot of totally forgettable ones in here.However, some of his work is so starkly and utterly beautiful, this is a collection I'll always want to have with me."Lullaby" alone makes this a treasured book.
There are many poems in here I have yet to mine, but this collection has kept me company on many cold nights when all I want to do is curl up with some words, some wine, and my own thoughts. Tough to beat.
I dipped back into the old Auden collection this week. Wow, still blown away. He's our bridge from the Romantic to the Modern. Formally flawless in so many poems, always stimulating intellectually, even when he misses the mark. I favour the earlier poems, but find beauty throughout.
Sometimes clear as a bell. Sometimes I'm lost. But lots of it really sends my mind off in new directions. Wonderful! It's worth it to read his Christmas poem/play "for the time being."
I thought I liked Auden; apparently I only like the few poems editors always anthologize. His later poems are better though.
How I have a degree in Literature and barely read Auden til this past Winter is beyond me. Amazing, amazing, amazing.
Usually his quotes are the ones perfect for a poster or framed inspirations.I've just GOT to mention a few of my favorites:"We are here on earth to help others; what on earth the others are here for I don't know.""My deepest feeling about politicians is that they are dangerous lunatics to be avoided when possible and carefully humored; people, above all, to whom one must never tell the truth." "Nobody is ever sent to Hell; he or she insists on going there.""No person can be a great leader unless he takes genuine joy in the successes of those under him.""I'll love you till the ocean is folded and hung up to dry And the seven stars go squawking like geese about the sky.""A professor is someone who talks in someone else's sleep."

Очите му са виждали далеч, а умът му е разбирал много. И сърцето! Колко вярно е биело то в тесния му гръден кош! Със същите вълнения, със същите трепети и тъги както останалите, но с по-отчетлив и редовен пулс от всяко друго. Изпреварвайки времето си, Уистън Одън не е дочакал и съда му. Добрата книга, казва той, те прочита преди ти да си я прочел- и значи по собствените разбирания на автора тази книга е добра!
Still reading this, I will probably continue to read it for the rest of my life. It's farewell to the drawing-room's mannerly cry, The professor's logical whereto and why,The frock-coated diplomat's polished aplomb,Now matters are settled with gas and with bomb....
He is a giant but not for me.
"Our tables and chairs and sofasKnow things about usOur lovers can't." "In moments of joyall of us wished we possesseda tail we could wag."
Easily accessible poetry that speaks to me.
I'd say 3.85 out of 5 stars. I enjoyed reading the book and learned a lot from the multiple styles.
However, I got well over half-way through this one before deciding I needed to take a really long break from Auden – as in, I’m done with this book.
Auden’s writing includes many really strong pieces and I expect that several verses from here will stick with me for the rest of my life.
However, my ultimate conclusion was that the man would be regarded far more highly today if he had burned up about half of what he wrote before it ever had the opportunity to be published.
Nevertheless, there are some great compositions, in the middles of some quite dull and context-bound pieces, there are startling statements.
The latter makes more sense, as Auden was clearly hoping for a place in the lineage of his poetic antecedents, and a permanent home in the canon.
The last stanzas of "In Memory of W.B. Yeats" contradict Auden's belief in the limited power of poetry:Follow, poet, follow rightTo the bottom of the night,With your unconstraining voiceStill persuade us to rejoice;With the farming of a verseMake a vineyard of the curse,Sing of human unsuccessIn a rapture of distress;In the deserts of the heartLet the healing fountain start,In the prison of his daysTeach the free man how to praise.
Does Auden think that poetry save humanity?
I checked this book out because I'd read a couple of Auden's more anthologized poems, "The Unknown Citizen" and "The More Loving One," and enjoyed them very much.
Auden reminds me of Eliot in some ways -- fond of allusion and over-figurative language that confuses rather than illuminating, or at least says "this poem is not for you." Even at his worst, however, Eliot is pithy.
That said, with a couple exceptions -- "A Permanent Way" comes to mind -- that 10% is the 10% you can find in anthologies of twentieth-century poetry, so there's no need to check out the Collected Poems.
