https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25995012-running-eagle-the-warrior-girl
The actual book is many more than 24 pages long. My grandmother had the battered 1st edition, purloined to my older sister's collection. Although the real Running Eagle was greatly romanticized in his novel, Schultz still spun a captivating tale of a girl who became a warrior among the warrior men of the Blackfeet. I have made my own actual pilgrimages to the falls in Glacier Nat'l Park named after her.
Strong, brave and true.The more I study the history of the first peoples of our country the more I feel the loss our country brought upon not only them but upon our own selves. This is a beautiful story of fair governance by wise men and women.
WonderfulNice to read a book from the Blackfoot vantage point. Most books paint the Blackfoot as the villains of the west, evil and bloodthirsty. In reality they were no worse, probably better than the whites.
Thank you Mr. Thompson, my high school librarian, for another amazing book that I have now read with all my children!
I have a 1919 edition, rebound in 1945.
The books of James Willard Schultz deserve more attention than they get.
Do I wish it ended differently?
Yes!
But the cultural depictions--the societies (such as the seizers), the religious beliefs, the way of seeing the world--are amazing.
This book tells the legendary story of a girl who broke the strong social expectations of her Blackfeet tribe and became a leading warrior.
It is a balance of romance, adventure, and war--something for everyone.
Great Blackfoot ChiefLove the Sun worship tales. Unfortunately, war and raids predominate throughout. Gentle and kind acts temper the harsh scalping and horse theft raids. The dignity of the Blackfoot tribe stands.....
Well written bookWell written book detailing the life of a Plains Indian. I enjoyed all the detail the author put in the book about the life they lived. It is an easy read.
I read this book while researching my Blackfeet/foot ancestry. I am related to Chief Lone Walker and Hugh Munroe who married his daughter. I liked this story so much that I wrote it as a screenplay (Attention all producers who are reading my comments!).
