https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128836.Selected_Poetry
Bibliographical note and acknowledgements I. The younger Goethe (1770-1786) --1. May Song / Mailied--2. Welcome and Parting / Willkommen und Abschied--3. Ganymede / Ganymed--4. Prometheus / Prometheusfrom the 'Urfaust', c. 1774--5. 'Well, that's Philosophy I've read' (lines 354-97) / 'Habe nun, ach! Philosophie'--6. 'In life like a flood' (501-9) / 'In Lebensfluten'--7. 'There once was a King' (2759-82) / 'Es war ein König in Thule'--8. 'My heart's so heavy' (3374-413) / 'Meine Ruh ist hin'--9.
'What are the joys of heaven' (3345/65) / 'Was ist die Himmelsfreud'--10.
A Wanderer's Night Song I: 'Messenger of heaven' / Wandrers Nachtlied I: 'Der du von dem Himmel bist'--15.
[The Song of the Fates] / [Das Lied der Parzen]--20.
'It is such joy to hug my beloved' / Wonniglich ists, die Geliebte'Miscellaneous classical epigrams, c.
'True love is love that stays constant' / 'Das ist die wahre Liebe'--44.
The God and the Dancing-girl / Der Gott und die Bajadere--54.
'As I sailed on the Euphrates' / 'Als ich auf dem Euphrat schiffte'--69b.
'A man's a misfit' / 'Dem ist es schlecht'--82.
Translated poetry...
Here I sit, making menIn my own image,A race that shall be like me,A race that shall suffer and weepAnd know joy and delight too,And heed you no moreThan I do!"----(from his Classical / Middles Years / Roman journey)"And when she sinks into sleep, wakeful and thoughtful I lie.
Eyes, stay closed!
Only one kiss on those lovely lips – flee, Theseus!
Now You are her captive – her gaze holds you for ever in thrall."-" True love is love that stays constant for ever, whatever its fortune: Whether requited or scorned, filled or sent empty away."
I loved this. This is possibly the first book of poetry I have found myself totally lost in. It got to the point where my husband would try to talk to me and I was getting resentful every time he interrupted me haha.Goethe writes so unflinchingly and beautifully. I enjoyed it immensely.
On contemplating a waterfall: "The rainbow blooms, changing yet ever still […]. I watch a mirror here of man’s whole story, / And plain it speaks, ponder it as you will: / Our life’s a spectrum-sheen of borrowed glory."And a poem or prose piece for every emotion, mood, season. Some short and humorous verses and some tales of suffering and pleasure that read like dreams in a midsummer's night. Lip-smacking tasty and inexhaustible.
And have I lost thee evermore, Hast thou, oh, fair one, from me flown? Still in mine ear sounds, as of yore, Thine every word, thine every tone. As when at morn the wanderer's eye Attempts to pierce the air in vain, When, hidden in the azure sky, The lark high o'er him chants his strain: So do I cast my troubled gaze Through bush, through forest, o'er the lea; Thou art invoked by all my lays; Oh, come then, loved one, back to me!
3.5*
If only you were really fluent in German, people always say, you'd appreciate Goethe. I'm not really fluent in German.
Let no man lose heart who still has these.”“True love is that which remains for ever the same whether all that it asks is granted or all refused.”“I prefer an injurious truth to a useful error.
Make haste, then, to grasp this holy mystery which is public knowledge.Rejoice in the true illusion, in the serious game: no living thing is a unity, it is always manifold.”From “Nothing Better”“Anything in the world can be endured, except a series of wonderful days.”In general, I’m sure I’m losing much by not being able to read the German.
The first poem I fell in love with and made me emotional and wanting to be a writer was Goethe’s “The Erl-King”.
I was about nine years old and was practicing for the school’s poetry competition with other students.
I enjoyed being with kids who also loved poetry but hated to stand on the stage alone in front of all those people.
I fell in love with her, the poem, and Goethe.I like to go back to this poem which now I know by heart.
I love to read other poems and works of his as well, including Faust.
Something is wanting because this is an English translation. Goethe’s poetry is renowned in the original German and a hint of his brilliance shines through. Still, disappointing only because I don’t know German.
Translations can be very problematic.
I don't read Russian, although I can make out the Cyrillic script and pronounce the words.
So how do I know whose Russian translations come closest to the original of Gogol?
While I am no scholar, and cannot converse in German, my skills are good enough that, with the aid of a dictionary, I can tell how clever he is.
In this volume, we are presented with both English and German versions, and both are always a delight to behold.
I hope that no one will feel intimidated looking at the exquisite original German verse followed by the beautiful English translations.
Enjoyed most of these, and nice that the book includes both the English and the German, as well as a wide range of Goethe's work. However, with my own horrible, horrible (like honestly horrible) German I was able to pick out a few changes lost in translation, which is a shame. I always wonder what poems like these would be like if those translating them tried to stick to the original more instead of trying to make it rhyme... I suppose I'll just have to become fluent in order to really appreciate Goethe's talent.
Venetian Epigram 50: I always disliked them, all those apostles of freedom; in the last resort each of them was merely seeking licence for himself. If you want to liberate many, then have the courage to be a servant of many; and if you want to know how dangerous that is, just try it.
I have kept several favorite quotes from this author in a small book and thought I would enjoy a book of his poetry. However, it was heavy going at times, and I resorted to some skimming, rather than reading word for word.
A collection of poems listed chronologically to show how Goethe grew as a poet. Although enjoyable, I would've preferred a collection of his best poems.
My copy of this book was published in 1888.It was poorly cut when it was bound so many of the pages are still intact and uncut - rendering it unreadable. I hope to get another copy.
poetry,Goethe,German,verse
amazon.com
I don't normally read poetry and I was never a German or Literature major so it's been fun to catch up on the stuff.
Hours of good, clean fun!
