https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534755.A_Technique_for_Producing_Ideas
The "technique" Young describes is also very simple, and rather common-sense: learn as much as you can, both about the specific thing you are working on and the world in general (because more facts in your head equals more possible relationships and combinations); think about all of it for a while, then take your mind off of it completely and do something else, and an idea will probably emerge as if out of nowhere; and finally, edit— revise, sharpen, and develop the idea until it works for the purpose at hand.
This book was initially developed for and by advertising minds who often believe they have sole claim to practical creativity.
Describing five simple steps, James Webb Young has crafted an easy-to learn, simple process that you can apply to spark creativity.
One of the important points in the book is the case Mr. Webb makes for continuing your education.
That education can be highly structured, like continuing education, or loosely structured, as in travel or simply stepping away from your computer to observe what is going on around you.
What makes this book so very special is its brevity and simplicity.
Young is an advertiser, and the book is aimed primarily at advertisers, but it's useful for anyone in a creative field who wants to focus on the process of coming up with ideas.The process is five-step: 1)gather material for ideas; 2) chew on the material to look at relationships; 3)put everything aside to let the material percolate; 4) wait for the idea to come up; 5) fit the idea to the real-world circumstances.This technique is simple but effective, and is worthwhile for anyone struggling to get ideas.
put things aside for a while for the subconscious to work?If you're stuck, read this nice little book, and try the technique.
Good to have/read.My favourite part of the book or booklet (because it's so short) is the suggestion to get "those little 3 x 5 ruled white cards and use them to write down the items of specific information as you gather them.
If you do this, one item to a card, after a while you can begin to classify them by sections of your subject."I also liked his likening of ideas to atolls (works for icebergs too but atolls sound cuter), where you only see only the brilliant idea at the top but not the strategy, planning and other idea-building processes beneath it.That's it.Edit: Reading this article on Brainpickings about Young's book should suffice.
It's (almost) as good as reading the book itself.http://www.brainpickings.org/index.ph...
Possibly one of the best books I've ever read. You can finish this in one sitting, but most likely you will have to get up and start writing down all the ideas that start running through your mind. If you liked this book, you can find more good info about the notecard system here: http://thoughtcatalog.com/ryan-holida...
The advertising classic. You can read it in an hour. It is still insanely useful and valuable. A must read for all creatives.
Do you wish that authors would stop padding their stories and ideas with unnecessary bumpf?
A Technique for Producing Ideas, supremely bumpf-free, is just such a volume, elegant and beautiful in its simplicity, and profoundly true.
Retired to New Mexico by 1960 (because his name was unsuitable for go-go era ad men*), he turned those thoughts into a book.
Reading about step three of the technique, I jumped up from the kitchen table, found some 3 x 5 index cards as Mr. Webb suggested, and distilled the very powerful essence of my article in thirty minutes.This book may change my life.
It's pretty rare for a book to combine exactly the right length with exactly the right amount of elaboration.
It's short, precise and to the point, without skipping any necessary details.
It's also written in that earlier U.S. style that has since been abandoned, but combines the modern crispness of writing with a more sophisticated breadth of references than you'll find in some boring modern business book which inevitably includes stories about Steve Jobs and implausible comparisons between Napoleon and a modern CEO.
But I digress...As for the technique for producing ideas that the book is about, it actually works!
it was a fun quick read .. it helped me figure out the process of finding ideas .. and ever since my creativity process is much faster
A very short and concise book on how to produce ideas.
And he claims that it works.
You should know that this is not a scientific book.
James Webb Young did not conduct any scientific study on how creativity works.
There is no experiments, there is no randomized trial, no statistical significance, nothing.
He wrote the book based on his own experiences and introspection.
You should keep that in mind.Does his method work for everyone?
Based on my experience, I am inclined to say so.
This is again not a proof, but I would suggest you to take a look at the book.
Short and incredibly to the point.
Loved it.
I took a course in creativity at UCLA which was 10 weeks long and frankly, this book encapsulated the 10-week course well.I've posted on amazon a review but basically where I think people have issues with this is in the incubation phase - we have a hard time just letting go and "allowing" good ideas to come to us.
I know I struggle with this part, and I know I'm not alone.But when I can let go, I'm amazed and it's always a situation of taking the shower, or traveling somewhere, or doing something repetitious or mundane - when the "a ha!" will arrive, almost fully formed and ready to be acted on.
I have now read this book twice (not that hard as it's about a thirty minute read). Like Paul Arden's book "It's Not How Good You Are, It's How Good You Want To Be", I found this book to be incredibly inspiring for the creative process. Also, I find it serendipitous that in this week that I've devoted to "Filling The Well" (something I do quite often in my quest for inspiration via the spark that museums, movies, books, galleries, etc. almost always provide) I stumble upon a book that is exactly about that! Anyway, highly recommended!
"An idea is nothing more than a new combination of old elements."Five steps to producing ideas:1. read/watch/absorb wide variety of subjects (both general and specific to your subject)2. think about the stuff you read about3. stop thinking about it all for a while; let it all marinate subconsciously4. idea! (write em all down, even if you think they're shit or too abstract)5. do workDon't read about advertising, read about social sciences/psychology.
Quick, simple, and short read. I suggest everyone take half an hour to an hour to read through this book, especially if you're interested in the creative minds' process. Challenging yourself to think like this could create some really unique ideas.
You remember how Sherlock Holmes used to stop right in the middle of it case, and drag Watson off to a concert? That was a very irritating procedure to the practical and literal-minded Watson. But Conan Doyle was a creator and knew the creative process.
A simple 5 step plan to generate new ideas. It's nice to believe that there's a method to finding the perfect solution to any creative problem, and although it's not that simple, but this method is tried and tested and proven to be the best.
"Words being symbols of ideas, we can collect ideas by collecting words."
The second is that a person’s capacity to create these new combinations of old elements depends on his ability to see relationships – making the habit of mind to search for relationships between facts an important and trainable aspect in the production of new ideas.Further, the technique to generate ideas follows five distinct steps in a definite order.
The general material is the vast databank of information on the world that is needed to come up with the elements that combined produce a new idea.

This is the process we all go through to come up with ideas, but it's nice to have it laid out into more formal steps.
Gather raw material, both specific and general.
Go deep to figure out the differences.
Be interested in knowing a little about a lot of different topics.2.
Constantly think about the idea.
a. Work over the materials in your mind.
i. Write down any partial ideas that come to you.
e. Keep doing this until you feel totally stuck.3.
After you get totally stuck, do something else creative to let the ideas germinate.4.
It simply lays out five simple steps for generating ideas—steps that sound more like work than wizardry.
Most of the steps are so obvious that it's tempting to dismiss them, and it is because the steps are so easily dismissed that good ideas are rare.
Most people can't consistently generate great ideas precisely because they attempt to skip one or more of the steps—or they overlook them altogether.I've worked in marketing for nearly twenty years and I can attest to the fact that the best ideas consistently come from people who are by habit the most curious.
If you want to learn how to generate better ideas, take an hour to read this book.
If you are trying to figure out how to stimulate your creative side and come up with solutions to difficult, near impossible problems, then this method is beneficial.
In "Einstein" by Walter Isaacson, Einstein did the same thing as Young suggests, spending deep focus on a problem that needs solved, then taking regular walks to relax his mind, after which the answer would pop up in his mind.
I personally didn't learn anything new by reading Young's book, given I've heard of and practice this method already, but it was a good refresher on the subject.
**Recommended for writers and creative types who feel they can't come up with anything new
It's a very thin book and wouldn't hurt to spend a few hours to read it. Simple, clear about the five steps of producing idea. Needs to be applied into practice though. I think it would be better if Young can provide more specific examples of successful advertising ideas. And one thing is that I can't find detailed story about Young's successful advertisement work online? Is it because it's too long ago?
Five very natural and organic techniques to generate ideas. The first one 'gathering information,' I think, is the most crucial of all because it requires 'accurate thinking' and 'controlled attention' as profiled in Laws of success by Napoleon Hill. To accomplish this step, extensive and in depth reading is required, and of all skill going extinct, reading is at the top. No wonder very few leaders have ideas to succeed in their positions!
Yet another "meh-like" book. I believe that author is very experienced ad-man for decades but he unfortunately, doesn't show his talent through the book; also he confess that in the first pages as well. This is like a initial book of ad-industry to make a generic way of producing ideas which may not work in current circumstances.
Short and Practical An easy read that teaches the art of coming up with ideas. It takes some mental work to dive fully into the concepts and not just read the words. The Index-card method is my favorite. I’ve heard that Robert Green and Ryan Holiday use it for generating ideas for their books.
This isnt ground break and most people will know that this is the wany they generally come up with ideas.What it is good at doing is really making clear the steps that people need to/will go through when coming up with ideas.The most important part, that is certainly emphasized, is the general knowledge and learning thats required
45 dakika gibi kısa bir sürede bitirdim. İnce bir kitap. Yazıldığı tarihe bakıldığı zaman biraz geri kalmış. Aslında bizim kuşağın genel olarak bildiği fikir bulma tekniklerinden bahsediyor. Ancak bu konuda daha önce hiç bilgi sahibi olmayan için faydalı bir kitap.
Finished this in under an hour and definitely the shortest book I’ve read. Actually, it feels more like an article than a book - only 36 pages. However, the idea producing concept is great and it feels like much more could have been written on the subject.
How I workThis book, written in 1940 captures the same method and motive I use for solving problems. The techniques is simple. It is also beautiful. Only those who have walked the path will find it valuable.
