https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/679464.Olivia
This is a supposed classic of lesbian fiction.
Sometimes novels (or movies for that matter) are named classics due to their sheer quality, originality and epic grandness, sometimes it is due to their contents being revolutionary for its day or for pioneering a new territory or genre.
It is entirely possible that it simply packs a lesser punch that other gay and lesbian classics of its time because, although inspired by certain real facts, this is a work written by a heterosexual woman who has consistently denied that Olivia was based on her.
Heard about this from a great GQ piece called "21 Books You Don't Have to Read," which dismisses canonical standards and offers replacements instead.
Here's from the entry for this book: I have never been able to fathom why The Catcher in the Rye is such a canonical novel.
Alternatively, I'd suggest Olivia, the story of a British teenage girl who is sent to a boarding school in France.
Julie never takes a wrong step, but there are signs for those who know how to read them.
I've read Olivia many, many times, and bought it for many of my friends.
I'll do a proper review of this novel after I see the 1951 movie Olivia, but FYI: it's wonderful.
I was desperately curious about this because boarding school and lesbians and older book makes for a pretty interesting combination.
But no, what makes this feel so specific to its time is the peculiar chaste crush Olivia develops on one of her teachers at finishing school.
Olivia does not really know what the crush means; I don't think she really has any idea what she wants out of it other than to be close to the teacher.
In the pantheon of lesbian classics reigns Olivia, Strachey's gripping account of her own coming of age, which is actually a roman à clef about two progressive Belle Époque girls' schools founded by Marie Souvestre.
Strachey attended both: Allenswood in England and, in France near the forest of Fontainebleau, Les Ruches.
Top Student Eleanor Roosevelt plays a supporting role in a cast that includes Strachey's headmistress and later employer, Marie Souvestre, rivaling the narrator for the love of another teacher.
"On a scale of 0-10, how likely are the lesbians to die at the end?" I was nervous that I'd be frustrated and wouldn't enjoy the book because of that tragic trope.
I also really appreciated the sense of adolescent mystery that the book captured.
The novel is a fast, deceptively simple read, but there's a lot going on with the characters.
And (***spoiler alert***) given how many of the characters read as lesbians to me, I was pleasantly surprised to find that almost none of them died at the end.
Fantastic and passionate. Mlle Julia is a force of nature
Review to come.K & K buddy read. Just peachy!<3
I was at a library sale and after reading the first sentence on the back cover, I added it to my bag:When at 16, Olivia left her English family to spend a year in a French finishing school near Paris, she moved into an atmosphere of intellectual and spiritual aliveness such as she had never known.It wasn't until recently that I read the rest of the blurb and realized that young Olivia becomes intensely infatuated with the headmistress.
It isn't until later in the story that the intensity of the feelings becomes blatant enough to be recognized by a naive reader (like me).This is reminiscent of Brokeback Mountain.The author, Dorothy Strachey, dedicated the book to the memory of her friend Virginia Woolf.
A second reading, audio-book version. I think I've read this book translated into Polish, about twelve thousand years ago, but my memory could (totally is) be deceiving me. The feelings remain the same - such a silly, silly story, but great prose. The writing is hauntingly beautiful, stunning. As for audio book narrator - the majority of dialogue was narrated in thick French accent, and that's kinda plus, and also made me really connect with Gomez Addams
I cannot believe this work is not more well-known as an early book about the lesbian experience.
Possibly autobiographical, it tells the story of a 16-year old girl's love for her teacher.
A classic story, to be sure, but Bussy imbues such a passion and immediacy to her tale that it is my personal suspicion that the pain of her loss and her love never faded, even after 40+ years and a marriage.
It is impossible to know.
what is important is that this is a beautiful little book; an artless, guileless story about a girl's innocent - but forbidden- love.
Olivia: A Novel left me with a rather bitter aftertaste, with the melange of love, worship and servitude all rolled into one and served together, upon the pedestal wherein Olivia placed Mlle Julie. I was as ambivalent as Olivia with regard to the perplexing Mlle Julie, and her seemingly bipolar mood swings. However, I wasn't fond of Olivia either, with the extremity of her neediness, nevertheless, I could empathize with her and the depths to which her love went.
Olivia shies away from it, but when she falls at Mlle Julie’s feet and covers her hands with kisses, when she writhes in her bed in anticipation of Mlle Julie coming to see her or in anguished jealousy that Mlle Julie might be going to see another girl, the nature of her feelings is lucidly captured.The relationship with Mlle Julie remains chaste, though the implication is strong that it’s a bit of a struggle for Mlle Julie to ensure the boundary isn’t crossed.
Although it may not always have been the case (particularly at the time of publication in 1949), this fairly explicit (for the time) story about the unrequited love of a teenage girl for her headmistress should now perhaps be confined to the YA section. The style is elegant and refined but the overly bathetic nature of adolescent first love, with all its uncertainties and exaggerations, is captured with too much accuracy for the more mature reader to be able to fully relate to the characters.
You know what? I enjoyed this book. It's not the greatest thing, and Mlle. Julie's actions often didn't make sense to me. However, the writing was lovely, and Olivia's coming-of-age struggles and thoughts seemed so real and genuine. I think the author drawing from some of her own teenage experiences helped this book come to life. It was a short, quick read that I will probably come back to again.
This book didn't do much for me. I didn't really get involved or care much about any of the characters. Not sure if I missed something...
I loved this - dreamy, breathy, school almost romance in Paris.
Loved it.
It's a book truly painful to read at times, no matter where you're coming from personally, but particularly so if you ever had an intense crush that pretty much broke your heart.
I didn't expect the writing to be so deep and raw, so pretty and easy to connect with...a crush may not be on the full scale of mutually reciprocated mature love, but it's no less real or painful for being what it is.
Anyone who has ever felt completely gaga over someone else will get what Olivia is going through, no matter how over the top her emotions may seem at the time.
"Olivia" is the story of a teenage girl away at boarding school, and her intense feelings for one of the two women who run it.
In some (good) ways, this reminds me of Nevada Barr's "Bittersweet" and Sylvia Brownrigg's "Pages For You", which are both favorites of mine, and both concern girls whose first loves are (somewhat) older women.First love is gorgeous and awful and all-consuming and unforgettable; Olivia finds all that out first hand.
It has the feel of a classic tragedy, and also of a really good YA novel of today.The story is loosely based on Marie Souvestre's Allenswood Academy, attended by both the author and Eleanor Roosevelt, among many other notables of the first half of the 20th century.
This is a strange little thing.
It's a lovely account of a fervent and chaste schoolgirl crush, as the narrator reminisces on her past and lets us in on the adult dramas she was witnessing the consequences of.
The writing is lovely but the tangential view on all the action feels a bit unsatisfying in the end and the teenage obsession gets a little wearying.I knew it was at least inspired by the author's life, even if she denied that the protagonist was based on her, but I didn't realise how many parallels to real, well-known individuals were in there until after I'd finished.
Perhaps one to race through again to enjoy those little Easter eggs.
The book was first published in 1949, so the writing was a little bit different to what you read nowdays.
Olivia is a character that the reader can identify with.
She's falling in love for the first time and is overwhelmed by this sense of attraction that she feels for Mlle Julie.
Every person that can recall the falling in love with someone for the first time can relate to all the feelings that come along with it.
The fear, excitment etc.
Dorothy was a good story teller and it's a shame it was her only published book.
A classic lesbian coming-of-age story, not sexually explicit but highly erotic. Perfectly conveys how a first crush can become obsessive. Requires a relatively high reading level of French, so some of it was lost on me.
the origins of lesbian tragedy, a queer canon must-have as my friend said
Words are impossible to find for a description. This novel has reached me profoundly..
Older women toying with schoolgirls' hearts and tragic lesbians about sums it up.
This was the book that made me realize I am a lesbian. I am not a lesbian.
This refusal to let literature affect her made her ‘incapable of the mystical illumination’ it brings (12).Compare this with Olivia’s first time hearing Julie read Racine:‘The sonorous vowels, the majestic periods, the tremendous names sweep on; one is borne upon a tide of music and greatness; one follows breathlessly the evolutions, the shiftings, the advances and retreats of the doomed quartet as they tread their measured way to death and madness, through all the vicissitudes of irresolution, passion and jealousy, leaving at the end a child’s soul shaken and exhausted, the first great rent made in the veil that hides the emotions of men and women from the eyes of innocence.’ (26)Olivia by opening herself to art, opens herself to ‘the emotions of men and women’.
It's about this school where everyone is a lesbian and girls fall in love with either one or the other headmaster for no good reason.
Their love professions fall into the realm of servitude, where all girls become servants rather than pupils, blindly following the steps of the two headmasters.
But the fact that it was utterly unrealistic was not the problem; the problem is was that I didn't care.
Also, I don't see how this is considered a lesbian novel; to me, it reads more as the adoration some pupils feel for their teachers, which I have felt myself and would never describe as love.
A fictionalised account of a year the author spent at a finishing school in Paris, this tells the story of naive Olivia and the love she feels for her teacher, Mlle Julie.
This is a quick read, but gives the reader a lot: an impression of the Victorian finishing schools and the social mores of the times, a sense of Olivia's deep affection and blossoming sexuality, and a portrait of the complex Mlle Julie.
It also gives us a sense of how greatly women's lives were curtailed by the social norms, and yet how deeply emotions were felt.
