https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819487.The_Chancellor_Manuscript
My grandmother gave me a bag of Ludlum books when I was in the hospital after a motorcycle accident when I was 19. I read this book first and was completely blown away. I didn't know reading could be like that. It started me reading. After I read all of Ludlum's books I looked for other authors to read. I will always be grateful to my grandmother.
Ludlum's books are always a great ride and this one is not an exception. I love how the plot tightens up as you reach the finale: incredibly tight!It makes me want to read the bourne series again.
The real attraction isn't the question if J.Edgar died a natural death or he was murdered, although that is the premise of the book.
No, for me that real attraction was the revelation in the last page.
Who's to say that similar kinds of events didn't happen with Ludlum himself?
A writer used as a 'blind' by a shadowy organisation to fulfil its own purposes, not caring whether the writer lives or dies at the end.
Ludlum definitely models Peter Chancellor on himself.
The question is, did Ludlum write something based on his life or is it a complete fiction?
Šita knyga, nors ir ne itin panaši į Borną (į kino versiją, kuri nuo knygos skiriasi ohoho kaip) išlaiko tuos pačius bruožus - nedidelį tempą, gan lakoniškus dialogus, mažai sąmonės srauto bei aplinkos aprašymų, keletas įtemptų veiksmo scenų.
Jau knygos viduryje supratau, kas yra tikrasis blogiukas, tada, pačioje pabaigoje smarkiai tuo suabejojau tik tam, kad prieš pat pačia pabaigą suprasčiau, jog buvau teisus.
Taigi, galiu garantuoti, kad čia nebus tas detektyvas, kuriame jau knygos viduryje paaiškėja, kas blogietis.
Bendrai paėmus, tai knyga tokia gan keista - kaip jau minėjau, nei dialogai išsamūs, nei veiksmo daug.
For the most part, this novel was a slow read and not one of Ludlum's best.
There are a couple of twists and surprises, but maybe there are just too many layers of deception in this story.
I feel this novel is proof that Ludlum had an inside source in the intelligence world.
That much is obvious and Ludlum has made that clear.
Edgar Hoover and make it appear as a natural death, but there is a deeper deception at play.
Others have their own agenda quite different from the secret group, Inver Brass and are willing to kill to achieve their ends.
Despite it is quite a big & heavy edition, I read this before going to sleep (and in the many sleepless hours I had this werk).I liked the book. It's interesting, well written, fast paced and it contains quite a plausible story. I also happen to love (non-)fiction about espionage/intelligence and the agencies that are behind that, so the story about Hoover's personal archive rung a bell. Too bad it's finished, this was a good one!
So Varak is then assigned to program Chancellor into conspiracy madness by carefully feeding the author information that he should use for his next book.
Yet Varak is a master manipulator, and mixes both truth and lies together in order to further drive Chancellor out of his mind.
Speaking of manipulation, which came first...the manuscript, or the Chancellor's real-life story?
Varak fed information to Chancellor, who eventually put it in his manuscript, as he did with everything else that happened to him.
Does not make sense, yet this plot point is key to the whole manipulation.Somehow, despite that huge flaw, "The Chancellor Manuscript" is still a very good book.
St. Claire advises Chancellor to take up a new career, suggesting fiction.
With nothing left to lose, Chancellor embarks upon a literary career, writing over the next 4 years 2 best-selling novels whose conspiratorial themes would lead to Chancellor's life being turned inside out.
Ludlum creates here a novel that has all the hallmarks of a classic action thriller: car chases across highways, horrific deaths in plain sight of passersby, secret codes, clashing of rival groups, and secret quasi-governmental/private organizations.
I had first read it when I was in school, somewhere in the 90s.
All I remembered was I smuggle-read this book in school to race through it.
The Chancellor Manuscript is a typical Robert Ludlum signature book.
This is one classic Ludlum work because of its myriads of twists in the tale, the deceptions and the counter deceptions, the encompassing crisis, the spiralling of violence, the clinical process of murder and of course a high level of intelligence in every single step.It will keep you wondering "what if"?
It will make you think "is there any fact to fiction"?If you haven't read Chancellor Manuscript yet, it's about time you dive into it and experience how surveillance can own you.
This is the first book by Ludlum that I've read. I enjoyed the Bourne Trilogy films so read a few of the books from later in the Bourne series. These were by van Lustbader and although entertaining seemed to lack depth with the characters. This book has more depth to it than Lustbader's did, with a far more satisfying sense of resolution (helped no doubt by the fact that it isn't part of a series). Ludlum writes well, mixing good pace of storyline with development of characters and intrigue - a thoroughly enjoyable read.
THE CHANCELLOR MANUSCRIPT is a top-notch thriller with perhaps the most convoluted story line I've ever seen. Only an incredibly masterful writer would even attempt something like this, let alone be able to pull it off. Which Ludlum does, for the most part. Definitely not recommended unless you want to give your brain a workout. This is one book I would suggest reading through as quickly as possible so as not to lose track of the plot.
This is my favorite Ludlum book of all time. I devoured it. It has a bit of historical fiction in it but stays the espionage course as well. I would rate it "R" if it were a movie due to language and some scene description but it's a great read if you like spy novels. Ludlum is a master storyteller.
not better than the previous books I read which were total monsters, but nonetheless amazing. this is a Mystery Spy thriller that, with no surprise, contains many twists and turns. This book doesn't just contain one simple plot, but much much more...Alot more.
The best Ludlum novel ever, and very timely story line with what is going on in today's world. A must read for lovers of the thriller genre.
This was the first and last Ludlum book I read. I found it tedious. Too many details and not enough suspense for what is supposed to be a suspense/action novel.
This is a non-stop thriller by a master at the top of his form. Great story, characters and plot.
I found the initial premise intriguing because set in 1968 unmasking US businessmen who traded with Nazi Germany is something which was later done well in books such as 'IBM and the Holocaust'.
This plays out well, mostly, and we know that things are not always as they seem as we are able to see the other side trying to manipulate him.The denouement required me to go lie down in quiet and try to make sense of it and it was quite difficult to really get a grip on it all!
This is very poorly written. Ludlum' prose is overly dramatic and downright cheesy, with an irritating need to punctuate the drama with excessive use of exclamation marks! Why such a high score then? Because it's astonishingly well plotted. The central conspiracy has some genuinely surprising revelations and in its latter third the level of escalation is really quite thrilling. Sure, it's silly, but I gladly ate it up.
The villain group was so larger than life, it is truly difficult to digest. But the plot is superb. It has so many layers, the mystery gets solved in so many twists. & the central crime is so unspeakable. The characters are mainly very believable. Even the individual members of the unbelievable villain group. One thing is, I really felt SCARED reading this novel, I'm not sure why. I took 2 days to read this. Both nights, I couldn't sleep alone.
I read it right after finishing 'The Bourne identity'. I just loved it, not only because the plot is quite interesting, but also the structure, quite complex. Nevertheless, Ludlum solves it amazingly well.
Good concept but lost me at times
Втората звезда - поощрение заради това, че книгата е все пак плод на един от любимите ми жанрове.
Good Ludlum thriller.
I have read this book several times, it's a great read and leaves you wondering is it really just a novel?
La trama di questo romanzo: nel prologo il protagonista incontra un ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti, ed espone la sua tesi in merito ai segreti di Hoover ma viene respinta; l'ambasciatore però lo convince a pubblicarla sotto forma di un romanzo.
Per ottenere i file rimanenti Inver Brass recluta Peter per arrivarci, dandogli un nuovo soggetto per il suo romanzo, dicendogli che Hoover è stato assassinato in modo che indagherà ulteriormente.
Da qui Peter è intrappolato in una spirale violenta, non sapendo chi sono i suoi nemici.Ludlum si conferma maestro di articolazione della trama, colpi di scena e dialoghi veloci e ben strutturati.
Ludlum has done better. I have struggled thrilling 50% and I have no desire to finish it.
My reading of this is quite ironic. It seems to parallel what is going on in the new US administration, Lies and secrets. The inventors and keepers of the lies and deception are being killed one by one. This was one hell of a story. Fiction, my foot. This is real time.
The Chancellor Manuscript, author Ludlum writes a conspiracy about an author who writes a conspiracy who experiences the same conspiracy as he is.
Except half of those files fell into the wrong, unknown, hands.Enter Peter Chancellor, a conspiracy novelist who is given part of the information as a book concept, hoping that he’ll inadvertently draw out the perpetrators.
There’s more twists than Alton Towers, even when half its rides aren’t shut for health and safety reasons.The Chancellor Manuscript constitutes an interesting blurring of fact and fiction twice over, through both the book and book-in-a-book, which allows a twisty-turny page-turner to follow.
Neal Holcroft, a graduate student, wants to write his doctoral thesis on the theory, which he has stumbled upon.
His academic advisor, however, tells him the theory, as well as his evidence, is weak and flawed, and will never be accepted by college officials as a serious work.
Holcroft accepts the advice and begins work on his novel.
Nearly as soon as he has begun, however, incidents in his life begin to mirror events he has written into the novel.
It also becomes obvious that this unknown "someone" wants to silence him, and is quite willing to kill him in order to prevent him from finishing his novel.
I generally like Ludlum's particular brand of action and intrigue, and The Chancellor Manuscript definitely worked when it played to those strengths.
Books about writers writing are always tough for me to read, and this novel is supposedly the book that the main character wrote after the events in the story ended.
They weren't used as slurs in the book, and I imagine that these were fairly respectable terms at the time Ludlum wrote this (1977), or they were at least meant to be respectable by the author.
Regardless, the terms helped highlight some lazy character motivations, and that cheapened the last third of the book for me.
