https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328710.Officers_and_Gentlemen
A grimmer, less slap-sticky continuation of Men at Arms, this second book of the Sword of Honour trilogy is heavy on military strategy (or lack thereof), inertia and the tales of characters other than our primary protagonist, Guy Crouchback, as it spends a good deal of time following the elder, rotund "Jumbo" and the detrimentally by-the-book Hound.
Got to love Waugh's stab at American war journalists in London, casting three minor characters who seek to capture the story: Scab Dunz, Bum Schlum and Joe Mulligan.A good next step after Men at Arms but not as immediately engaging.
After drifting on an open boat until delirious and dehydrated he finds himself again back in London, which is where he ends his circle at the end of the book.I think it is just about impossible to think of another author who conjours up the reality of war with such dry humour and such a humane and likeable hero as Guy Crouchback.
For those who wish to read on, and I assure you that you will want to follow Guy Crouchback's war to the end, the third volume is Unconditional Surrender: The Conclusion of Men at Arms and Officers and Gentlemen.
I couldn't put down the first book in the "Sword of Honour" trilogy, but this one was kind of "blah".
The center-piece of this book is the Evacuation of Crete (or what Waugh's alter ego saw of it).
There was one conversation in the novel about the changing meaning of honor that was very interesting.
I suppose it was what Waugh's generation and social class felt about the changes wrought by modern industrial warfare -and the new requirements for personal conduct in combat.
Fine book to read from time to time, but not one I'd recommend with burning ardor.
I haven't given up on the trilogy though.
The most random mishaps occur, nothing goes as planned, sometimes there isn't any plan, at other times the plan is really stupid, and gentlemen don't always behave like gentlemen.
The main point of the book (at least as far as I can tell) gets summed up in the main character's mind as he is convalescing from a traumatic experience during the British withdrawal from Crete: "He had a sense, too, that all war consisted in causing trouble without much hope of advantage." As usual, Waugh makes this point with a lot of subtle humor.
Some of it too subtle for me to understand, no doubt.
Having just finished the three books of the Sword of Honour trilogy in a row, it strikes me that Evelyn Waugh is an author for adults, not just for grown-ups - if that makes sense.
Indeed Waugh’s series, as far as it addresses military life, is mainly about the pomposity, the incompetence, the class quirks that he observed in the British Army during his time in it.His hero Guy Crouchback - one assumes he is a stand-in for Waugh himself - is someone who seems to have a sense of alienation and distance from much that goes on around him.
Officers and Gentlemen is the second book of Evelyn Waugh's "Sword of Honour" trilogy, and my favorite (I've since read the third).
Actually, it's more that it's sad and funny all at once, and meaningful in an unmistakable but hard-to-define way.Lots of experts point to Officers and Gentlemen as a brilliant example of modern English prose-- and though I'm no expert, I got some sense of what they meant.
In a lot of cases I felt like there was some point or joke going over my head-- which in part is not being familiar with the setting, but in part is also reflecting Waugh's subtlety.Overall Officers and Gentlemen was an enjoyable and rewarding read.
As such, at times, I found it hard to follow, not because the writing is dense but because I just wasn't pulled forward enough to care.Near the start, we learn that Crouchback's nephew has become a prisoner of war.
I didn't find myself caring that much about the characters or being sideswiped by sudden, shocking violence, until near the end.I suppose Waugh is aiming for a climax, which is why the plot seems to kick in in the last hundred pages, when Crouchback, after being reassigned from his old unit to a commando unit, now as a communications officer, goes on a mission to Crete, where the troops beat a hasty retreat and Crouchback's own unit is left deserted--to surrender.
There is nothing like these novels to compare them to within the American writings about the War, unless it was “Catch 22,” or “M*A*S*H.” At the end of the last novel, we found Crouchback being shipped back to England after a debacle in Dakar.
He somehow manages to end up in Crete, where his company is ultimately totally disorganized and attached to as many other companies as they can find.
The novel ends with his escape from Crete on a fishing vessel and ending back in England looking for another posting after his recovery from shock.
With introductions to Trimmer/McTavish and the superb oyster-eyed Corporal Major Ludovic, the remainder of the cast pulls through from Men at Arms.The 2nd half of the book is altogether darker and brutally compelling as Guy and the men of X Commando stumble in to the last days of the calamitous and shambolic British collapse in Crete.Waugh captures the sense of the time superbly and his wonderfully accurate depiction of the British Army in all its glorious chaos loses absolutely nothing by the injection of wicked, black farce.I was stunned by the hideous socialite Julia Stich's final action in this book - but loved the introduction of the Corporal Major ...Jumbo gazed before him, sadly, tolerantly, considering the inadequacy of No. X Commando.'You know,' he said, 'they've issued NCOs with binoculars?''Yes.''I call that unnecessary.
Waugh's satirical views of the army and culture are as sharp as ever in this story.
His ability to craft phrases is so special that I want to read paragraphs over instead of moving on in the book.
Guy wants desperately to alter his failed life so far by joining the army at the start of the war to be able to say he was someone.
This is a wonderfully humorous story about a serious time.
Waugh is able to play with this humor and not totally offend.
I didn't like this book at all. the style was all over the place with names and nicknames and way too many characters and stories going on. I got to page 100 and gave up...sorry
“Officers and Gentlemen” by Evelyn Waugh (originally published 1955, and book two of what became his Sword of Honour trilogy) continues the tale of Englishman Guy Crouchback, temporary officer, and his part in representing Great Britain in World War II.
Once again, threads to Heller’s “Catch 22” and Hooker’s “MASH” are easy connections because of the witty, absurd, and tragic events Crouchback faces.In this second book of the trilogy, Crouchback begins still in training and once again there is little real fighting – or biffing as they refer to it.
Officers and Gentlemen is more of a classic war story and features http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_o..., which Waugh himself took part in.
There are some details of the military action itself, but the book is more concerned with how people behave under pressure.
There is much less humour in this book than the first one, as suits its story of the realities of war.
There are several side stories which add to the overall theme of how so many people's behaviour falls short of ideal, although his rather lovely elderly father acts impeccably throughout.
Officers And Gentlemen is the second book in Evelyn Waugh's Guy Crouchback trilogy.
In this story, Crouchback is back from a mission in Africa with the Halberdiers and is assigned, as a punishment, to a Commando training unit on an island off Scotland.
This is the fog of war, men rushing towards the beaches hoping for a ship to take them off the island, troops (the Commandos) moving up the island trying to find out what their mission is; a calamity of actions.
It's an interesting, satirical look at war.
I will try the final book.
I have to admit I didn't like it as much as the first volume, Men At Arms, even though it had many of the same elements: satire about the military and society, a comic figure in "Trimmer," and some excellent stylish passages.
I think most of this had to do with the situations Guy Crouchback found himself in: training, military transport, surrender, and being adrift at sea.
Furthermore, I don't think Trimmer was as interesting of a character as Apthorpe from Men At Arms.
There is an interesting passage which discusses how the second war was different from the first in terms of classes mingling.
No. This is an account, heavy on dialogue with much specialized chit-chat among WW2 British officers, of their being sent from England to support the Allies on Crete, which was being evacuated by the Allies even as these officers arrived in the theater.
The dialogue is so littered with military lingo and abbreviations and banalities as surely to be of interest only to Brits who went through a similar experience about the same time.
Or maybe to someone who has no idea whatever of the military and hungers for a sense of it; but there are much better sources.
Officers and Gentlemen is the strongest stand-alone novel in the Sword of Honor trilogy because it gives the clearest picture of the exotic setting. No matter whether that setting is London during the Blitz or evacuation from Cretan beaches, the vivid setting is clearly sketched and then shaded with the gloom of the its forlorn characters. This pall conveys not only the desperation of individuals but also a national and military desperation and confusion. If you are interested a fictionalized personal narrative of the quixotic 1941 British campaign in Crete, this novel is essential.
Better than Men at Arms. Joseph Heller must have taken inspiration from Officers and Gentlemen when he wrote Catch 22. Several characters, including the protagonist, have direct counterparts in Catch 22, and the mindless illogic of war is beautifully rendered here. Crouchback wanders through a dismal battlefield of defeated, broken armies, and although he makes a good faith effort to get involved he never quite accomplishes anything other than finally escaping with his life. Waugh's satiric genius is in full flower.
Haven't tried Waugh in years. I guess I just wasn't in the mood for a shallow, aren't-we-just-too-clever, condescending, supercilious, it's-so-hard-to-get-good-help-these-days, don't-we-toffs-all-have-such-amusing-nicknames view of war.
صحيح درسناها هالترم الماضيبس نفسي أقرأها كاملةرح أتسلى فيها بطريق السفر ان شاء الله
This is part 2 of Waugh's semiautobiographical World War II trilogy.
Very similar to the first one--a lot of silliness and fake seriousness in Britain, than an oversea deployment to some fringe of the war where things go poorly.
This time the destination is Crete, just as the allies are vacating the island.
It makes it hard to follow the narrative at times or to appreciate the stakes involved.
To be honest, I have a hard time seeing how Waugh will keep this shtick up for one more novel, but I guess I'll find out sooner or later if he does.
This has a particular rhythm to it you have to get into before it really starts to work well, but that's interesting and so is much of the book. A bit dry at spots, but that's English respectability for you. Some good slapstick-ish humor, and some harsh bits. Enjoyable overall. I hadn't read the previous book so it took me a little to come up to speed, but not much. Pretty easy to come into this one on its own.
Second book of the trilogy 'Sword of Honour'. Guy Crouchback is in training in the Isle of Mugg, then moves to Alexandria and finally to Crete to fight against the Germans. The question at the end is: in a world where priests are also spies and friends are also traitors, is it possible to be a gentleman? Shall it be withdrawal or surrender in Crete?
A great book. The war in Crete, supposedly drawn from Waugh’s own experience, is still very confusing on every read, but the book as a whole is excellent, and after having read it several times now, one still finds more in it each time. Waugh truly is a master of prose, and there is a subtle humor and melancholy to almost every page. I found myself re-reading passages throughout. Masterly.
The story continues with Crouchbank sent to a Scottish Island, in to Capetown, Alexandria and then to Crete. Chaos and defeat. The characters are very memorable Trimmer, Ivor, Hound and Jumbo. A well written and perhaps a more accurate depiction of WWII. The harrowing escape from Crete and duplicity of Mrs Stitch was a bit grim and Guy once again ending back in England.
Mostly just fine. Seems like Guy fades into the background, which would be my primary complaint. Again, just enough interesting craftsmanship and insight to prod me on to the concluding chapter of the trilogy.
Beautiful writing, witty... but never got into the story. I had not read 1st novel and could not care for soldiers adventures in WWII.
Ok. This is a direct continuation of the first book. The review is exactly the same as the first book. Not recommended.
Guy Crouchback is betrayed by one he holds dear - Ludovic's pale eyes watch honour leave the world
Tristare enn den første
