https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22200.Count_Zero
The coolest thing about reading Gibson is jacking in to his urbane and hip way of descriptive narration.William Gibson, as prophet of cyber punk and also as the herald of his later Blue Ant works, returns to The Sprawl for a continuation of the setting he began in his masterwork, Neuromancer.But like many of his books, this sequel is only that in regard to a return to the original setting, Count Zero works as a stand alone.
The super rich are not even human, so far removed from ordinary circumstances and from the constraints of mortality.Gibson’s Sprawl trilogy (completed in 1988 with Mona Lisa Overdrive) bridges the cyberpunk genre from the release of Bladerunner to the beginning of The Matrix films and is the cornerstone of this sub-genre.
“it involved the idea that people who were genuinely dangerous might not need to exhibit the fact at all, and that the ability to conceal a threat made them even more dangerous.” ― William Gibson, Count Zero I haven't read Sprawl # 3 (Mona Lisa Overdrive), but after reading Neuromancer and now 'Count Zero', I think I will start referring to the Sprawl trilogy as the Sprawl Dialectic.
But still, 'Count Zero' appears to be Gibson saying, yeah, that 'Neuromancer' book you are all so turned on about is fine, but it was an adolescent idea.
From the vodou loa who seemingly possess various characters and steer the entire plot; to the mad European trillionare who has reached near immortality through preservation vats and virtual reality; to the insane former net cowboy who now believes he has found god in the random yet deeply moving works of art created by long abandoned industrial robot; everything in Count Zero is about god, machines, and that perhaps the line between the two is not so clear.Then again, Neuromancer was largely about sentient AI, and how if computers and the net become omnipotent, omniscient, and omnipresent, that is pretty much the definition of God. I personally enjoyed Neuromancer a bit more, simply because I like the question of god to remain fuzzy, for the factor of faith to blur the interpretation of what occurs -- both see the same bolt of lightening, but to the atheist the lightening is just a meteorological, to the believer, it is a sign from above.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my FINISHING THE SERIES! list.I loves me a good series! But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go...A quick look at the numbers...Why is it that
readers following on to the next book and just 12% making it to the end of the series.You have to ask - why the big drop-off?The series scores reasonably well - between 3.8/3.9 - so it's not as if everyone is reading 
isn't a direct sequel - it doesn't pick-up the same characters - but it's set in the same world, orbiting the same scene, with some common threads - but each stands alone perfectly well.
But even if Gibson had rejoined Case and co, I don't think everyone would have read on because character empathy is not his strong suit.
I use the term loosely.There's really 3 stories here that all tie together at the end.Marly, an art specialist, her world wracked by scandal, is a approached by an incredibly rich man and offered obscene amounts of money to track the origins of some art pieces he's interested in.
But when it all goes south, Turner finds himself as the protector of Mitchell's daughter.
His writing is beautiful.I didn't think this was as good as Neuromancer, but it was still good.Another thing I love about Gibson is even though his world is grimy and grim, he always weaves a good bit of happiness and joy into his works.
Neuromancer’s been busy and now his plots have widened to involve several people whom we meet in Count Zero:Turner is a recently reconstructed mercenary who’s been hired by the Hosaka Corporation to extract Christopher Mitchell and his daughter Angie from Mitchell’s job at Maas Biolabs.
But there are many questions left to answer, so after you finish Count Zero, you’ll want to have Mona Lisa Overdrive, the concluding novel of the Sprawl trilogy, ready to go.I listened to Brilliance Audio’s version of Count Zero which was read by one of my favorite voice actors, Jonathan Davis.
A Modish Synopsis, A Modest Assemblage, A Little LookseeIt's a whole long story, and it's open to interpretation.
I decided you and I might hit the matrix for a little looksee.
Eventually, I came to feel that this was a situation in which real becomes merely another concept.
Nothing ever does...SOUNDTRACK:(view spoiler)[Rebecka Törnqvist & Sara Isaksson - "Barrytown" [Steely Dan]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QrmSE...Steely Dan - "Reelin in the Years" [Live]https://vimeo.com/album/2542646/video...Now with beards, now without!Bobby Quine and Lou Reed - "Sweet Jane" [Live at the Capitol Theatre, Passaic, NJ on 9/25/1984]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBnio...Magazine - "My Tulpa"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dFEaT...
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Technology is non-functionally "tacked onto" this book like those resistors.I remember being very impressed with Gibson's prose when I read Neuromancer at age 18.
The only way to determine which is the case would be to re-read Neuromancer, but I'm not eager to do that at this point.One star is too harsh a rating for a competent if totally unremarkable genre story, but Gibson pretends to do so much more, and that's frustrating.
An interesting addition to the Sprawl trilogy started with Neuromancer, taking a look at similar themes from a different perspective.
I want to believe in William Gibson, I want to be a massive fan of all of his work yet I find myself struggling with these early books.
If this wasn't a Gibson I may not have even finished it, if the sequence wasn't important to the development of the genre I probably wouldn't have started this one after Neuromancer.So what now?
There was a time in my life where cyberpunk was where it was at and this book really fitted the bill.
The second instalment in Gibson's sprawl series contains all the elements that made cyberpunk so much fun. The plot is a breakneck thrill ride complete with augmented humans, mercenaries, Rastafarian warriors and a tactical nuke. However, Gibson also finds room for plenty of brain food as we are forced to consider a future where government is irrelevant and information the only real currency.
Barely made it to 3*s... Parts of the book were good and made me want to keep reading, but then invariably the chapter changed and we went back to people whose story I wasn't interested in.And in the end it just kinda all fizzles out... If it's going to do that I at least want it to make me think, like a Philip K Dick book, but this one almost just left me thinking that I was glad it was over because I can forget about it.
Rather, the goodness or badness is a choice I, the reader, must make.Yet when I make that choice – to be positive or to be negative – and then write my review, my chosen perspective will percolate backwards in time and memory and retroactively alter the focus of my thoughts on the book.
Melting, dulling – and so easy to kick over.Books and the stories within them no longer seem like great FORCES of nature, which transport me – often without my noticing it – into fantastical realms, feeding my subconscious direct like some sort of IV drip filled with idea, scenery, and character.
3 StarsWell, just like with Neurmonancer, William Gibson’s amazing command of the English language, coupled with his incredible writing style was not enough for me to love Count Zero.
It is very well written, fast paced, filled with cool sci-fi action scenes and gadgetry, and not overly long in length.The problem with this book is that I really never cared one bit about any of the characters in this book, or in book one for that matter.
William Gibson is a gifted writer, here are a couple of typical scenes of his:“"Yes, Marly.
Every time I re-read the Sprawl trilogy, I speed through "Neuromancer" and, when I get to it, "Mona Lisa Overdrive;" but "Count Zero" usually holds me up for a month at least.
Angie Mitchell, the teenage girl whose scientist father put a matrix-linked implant in her brain, is going to be a great lead character in the final book, "Mona Lisa Overdrive." Then there's Jackie, the voodoo priestess hacker with computer chips in her cornrows; Rez, the butch pilot with the rose boob tattoo; Jaylene Slide; and the FINN.
This is one of my lost reviews."She's gone and the present is trivia." That line from Memento scrawled in my handwriting at the back of Count Zero.
It captures the hyperreality of Count Zero.
I sure dig Turner, the extractor, in this tale.
Distant, cold, re-built, Turner becomes the most traditionally romantic of Gibson's Sprawl characters.
What a bizarre review.
It's mroe like a list.]My favourite is young Bobby, the count himself.
What I missed in Count Zero was Neuromancer/Wintermute.
Sure there were references, but its power was so huge that it could no longer engage as a character.
He never quite re-visits the fate of the Neuromancer/Wintermute construct, but he drops all these tantalizing hints about strange things happening in cyberspace, not to mention the odd god inhabiting space junk in orbit.On the other side of the divide, we have humans like Turner or Angela or even Bobby, people who have jacks that allow them to download data directly into their brain.
There is a refreshing lack of pretentiousness to books like Count Zero, even as they force us to think about difficult ideas.The second instalment in the Sprawl trilogy also recalls Gibson’s post-national corporate-driven vision of the future.
Count Zero makes Neuromancer seem like an easy book to read.Turner, a mercenary, who had been severely injured, had his body reconstructed.
While the previous used just the right amount of words to give a cyberpunk vibe and dark tone, coupled with terse descriptions that explained everything in time, Count Zero is stuffed with description at some places (where less might have been better), whereas at others it contains sentences which begin and end in strange and almost incomprehensible ways.The threads tie in nicely, but leaves a lot to be demanded.
Se encuentran por sobre toda otra forma de ciencia ficcion cyberpunk.
O mas bien de la ciencia ficcion en general.Incomparable.
Es su propio genero, porque William Gibson no escribe cyberpunk: el es el cyberpunk.Conde Cero resulta mas osado que Neuromante, mas complejidad en la historia y varias de estas que se entrelazan formando una sola.
Con esto quiero decir que encontre esta lectura mas estimulante que la mayoria de los libros en general.El segundo de la trilogia Sprawl roza la perfeccion.
Se ha ganado una calificacion de cinco estrellas y conferido a esta saga (por el momento) una clasificacion tambien de cinco estrellas.
With Count Zero, William Gibson employs the familiar device of fragmenting his narrative between multiple protagonists.
By utilising four characters and telling their stories separately, it had to the potential to go into greater detail with the world building and increase the complexity of the plot.
Count Zero sourly lacks this type of character because none are given the space to develop defined qualities.
While we arguably see more of The Sprawl due to the four perspectives, it didn't feel alive like in Neuromancer, each location read like a staging area for the characters to say their lines and push the plot forward.
Count Zero, 1986I haven't exactly followed his oeuvre in chronological order.As much as this "authorship arc" serves to distract me from the plot of Gibson's novels, I've still enjoyed considering it while reading the Sprawl and Bigend trilogies (So far, I've skipped the Bridge trilogy, which perhaps is a bridge between these two periods in Gibson's writing).
Gibson never holds his reader's hand, but we feel that we're in good hands when reading Pattern Recognition.There are other aspects of Gibson's writing that I could point to (plotting, character development, his use of technology...), but I think anyone reading this will get the point.Regardless, there's something to be said for catching authors in their youth and following their career.
Executive Summary: A fast-paced thriller from the master of cyberpunk. Full Review I've had this book and Mona Lisa Overdrive sitting unread on my shelves for far too long. I kept finding other books to grab my attention.I finally got around to reading this, and I wish I had sooner. I wanted something short and fun and this fit the bill nicely.The book opens with Turner, a mercenary for hire, who specializes in aggressive corporate recruiting, of a sort. His job involves extracting high value em
Executive Summary: A fast-paced thriller from the master of cyberpunk.
I've had this book and Mona Lisa Overdrive sitting unread on my shelves for far too long.
I wanted something short and fun and this fit the bill nicely.The book opens with Turner, a mercenary for hire, who specializes in aggressive corporate recruiting, of a sort.
She is hired by Herr Josef Virek, an enormously wealthy collector to track down the creator of some rare boxes.Finally we meet Bobby, a young cyber cowboy trying to make a name for himself.How do these three stories relate to one another?
The answer was in a fun and easy cyberpunk thriller.
I'm looking forward to fitting in Mona Lisa Overdrive at some point soon.
-Otro libro del padre putativo del Cyberpunk pero cuidando más las formas desde lo narrativamente convencional.-Género.
Marly es una galerista caída en desgracia por un escándalo de falsificación del que en realidad no era directamente responsable y que ahora parece ser del interés de un famosísimo y multimillonario coleccionista de arte para que forme parte de su personal.
Segundo libro de la trilogía del Sprawl (o del Ensanche) pero no una continuación propiamente dicha de “Neuromante”, el primer libro de la serie.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?

My problem with a lot of genre fiction is that when not wholly unimaginative, it is often too restrained and quasi-literary to take full advantage of the opportunities open to it.
Gibson shows a rare willingness to plunge as far into his crazed techno-mythology as I could reasonably hope.
Haitian gods manifesting (or seeming to manifest) in lost corners of the internet, megacorporations more powerful than nations which have all but ceased to exist, rewired brains and bodies, and pilgrimage to the broken chapels of scuttled spacecraft.
Some definite plots holes and inconsistencies, but this is first-rate pulp anyway, lurching directly between startling inventions and pushing creative license as far as needed.
(But then again, isn't it all just numbers?) Gibson's characters are as deeply embedded in their digital ecosystem as us, but for purposes of presentation, they encounter it as a true virtual reality (and indeed a lot of their leisure time is spent subsisting in it.) So Corporation databanks are seen in the matrix as monolithic towering structures (think Tron) surrounded by "ice", the slang for data protection structures - the firewalls and hacker deterrents we are all familiar with from our desktop PCs. I think this feels dated because the idea of data-as-structure is so 1980s.
The other two are largely action-based, and this one had a lot of that but also a lot of beautiful descriptions, somewhat mystically-oriented plotlines, and it really drew me in, probably because I'm no stranger to cyberspace myself.
'Yeah, there's things out there.
Sure, it's just a tailored hallucination we all agreed to have, cyberspace, but anybody who jacks in knows, fucking knows it's a whole universe.
Things are seldom what they seem.""My songs are of time and distance.
These things you treasure are shells."
’Conde Cero’ contiene la gran mayoría de elementos del género cyberpunk, a saber: futuro distópico, grandes corporaciones con objetivos bastante discutibles, personajes como meros peones de la trama, ciudades controladas por bandas callejeras, cyberjerga, acceso a la Red mediante conexiones neurológicas, inteligencias artificiales que están despertando, todo bajo una ambientación de novela negra.La historia está compuesta por tres arcos argumentales, que terminarán relacionándose entre sí.
Y la tercera protagonista es Marly Krushkova, marchante de una galería de arte que es contratada por el magnate Joseph Virek, que únicamente puede comunicarse a través de entornos virtuales, para encontrar unos objetos de arte, unas extrañas cajas.’Conde Cero’ es una buena novela, más contenida, pero me ha gustado mucho menos que ‘Neuromante’, donde los excesos narrativos de Gibson me resultaron más fascinantes.
It’s been seven years since the events of  Neuromancer . Neuromancer and Wintermute have “become one” and subsequently splintered into multiple AIs. Some make deals with humans, some manipulate them, and some even create art a la Joseph Cornell. Meanwhile, the zaibatsu are at war. Since the dissolution of Tessier-Ashpool S.A., Josef Virek, around whom the plot turns, is now the wealthiest living individual, as rich as a zaibatsu, an anachronism in an age of megacorporate structures. In fact, he’
. Neuromancer and Wintermute have “become one” and subsequently splintered into multiple AIs. Some make deals with humans, some manipulate them, and some even create art a la Joseph Cornell.
Since the dissolution of Tessier-Ashpool S.A., Josef Virek, around whom the plot turns, is now the wealthiest living individual, as rich as a zaibatsu, an anachronism in an age of megacorporate structures.
The story follows three individuals: a disgraced art dealer, a merc with a soft side, and a would-be console jockey from the Sprawl, along with a host of secondary characters.
Not a screamer, where impacted fears took on simple, terrible shapes, but the sort of dream, infinitely more disturbing, where everything is utterly wrong ..." (p.30)Count Zero is the second book in Gibson’s Sprawl trilogy.
It’s a more mature, more ambitious work than Neuromancer, telling the stories of three main characters: Turner, a mercenary-for-hire; Bobby, a young console-cowboy; and Marly, a former art gallery owner.Like its predecessor, Count Zero is not an easy read.
Gibson has no time for info-dumps, being a proponent of the “show, don’t tell” school of storytelling.
It can be challenging at times, and may require a few re-reads of parts of the book, but it is so worth it.
