https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84839.Gone
OH MY GOODNESS is all I really need to say about this book, but I'll try and say a bit more.
I thought the last book I read by Lisa Gardner (The Killing Hour) was a page turner which it was, but this was so much more.
Gone is the fifth book in the Quincy & Rainie series and boy, what a fabulous series it is.
I've probably said this before in my other reviews, but I'll say it again, Lisa Gardner really does know her stuff when it comes to writing mystery/thrillers.
I can't recommend this book highly enough to those who love reading a really good mystery/thriller.
Haunted by the actions of rapists and murderers, particularly those who have escaped conviction, Rainie Conner, an ex-police officer turned private investigator, finds justice in the bottle she has avoided for fifteen years.
When her husband, fellow private investigator Pierce Quincy, has had enough, he abandons her, hoping she will realize only one road lies ahead and it leads to AA.Rainie is kidnapped, while taking yet another sequential wrong turn, and discovers everything she has taken for granted: an autonomous breath, unobstructed vision, and the delicious sensation of mobility.
In essence, she concludes life is worth living.
Waking from another heart-stopping nightmare, shaking and lonely, Rainie Connor knew she wouldn’t, couldn’t sleep again that night, so dressing hurriedly, she headed out into the pouring rain to go for a drive.
But the devastation and loneliness wouldn’t leave her – it had only been seven days, but it felt like forever…Across town, Pierce Quincy, ex-FBI profiler was pacing the night hours away in the B&B he was currently inhabiting.
She was gone…As the hastily formed task force scrambled to get started on the investigation, the relentless rain was hampering their search for evidence – Kincaid grudgingly allowed Quincy to be involved; against the rules, but he was their only profiler on hand, and he was needed desperately.
There is a saying in Alcoholics Anonymous ...  "Sobriety is a daily reprieve contingent upon my spiritual condition" . In previous books in the series Rainie appeared to be an alcoholic but never said the words and never attended an AA meeting. She would play games with a bottle of Bud Light and then pour out the contents. For an alcoholic a very dangerous game. In their profession Quincy & Rainie have seen many horrific things. Now it appears as though one case has pushed Rainie over the ed
. In previous books in the series Rainie appeared to be an alcoholic but never said the words and never attended an AA meeting.
For an alcoholic a very dangerous game.
In desperation Pierce moves out hoping that Rainie will realize the consequences of her drinking and things will return to the way they were.For Pierce Quincy the nightmare gets worse when he receives a phone call from the local authorities.
He has Rainie and he wants fame, fortune, and apple pie.Quincy, along with his daughter Kimberly and her boyfriend Mac, work with the local authorities to try and save Rainie.
I got to the middle of the book and I was in no mood to continue.
I don't know what it is about this book but it's like a deja vu.
The kidnap, the evil thoughts...
Nothing original.
Focusing on that dark world of evil people & those feelings of being powerless, clueless; maybe those were too much for me.
It's supposed to be fast-paced and yet I thought the story evolved so slowly.
I didn't feel like continuing.
Anyway after a few days I picked it up again and persevered.
Honestly I read other recent books by her which were much better.
Gone is an electrifying, quick pace novel, spanning over a non-stop 48-hour period.Pierce Quincy, an ex-FBI profiler, takes a call from the local Bakersville sheriff office, claiming to have found his wife’s car; abandoned and off to the side of a dirt road with the drivers door wide open, gun missing and his wife, Lorraine (Rainie) Conner, gone.Quincy knew Rainie was distraught prior to her disappearance; she had a drinking problem, there were family issue and her recent separation from Quincy caused her distress, images from past crime scenes haunted her memory, but there were a lot of other secrets Rainie kept hidden to herself.
At the end of each chapter, Lisa Gardner would add something dramatic or critical to the plot, that you had no choice but read on.The case felt doomed from the very beginning, with the task force going in blind.
This is the 5th book of this series.i really enjoyed it. I will be reading the rest of them in this series.

Great suspense story and it was a good choice for an audiobook. I knew the bad guy as soon as he appeared but my opinion wavered at one point. Gardner does a great job at keeping you tuned into the story. I will go back and read some of the others in the series now as well!Feb 2017:re-read the epub version this time. I had forgotten some of the storyline and was pulled right back in!
i did the audiobook, 85 percent of the characters in the book are male, and the voice was a female. It was painful to listen to her try to sound like 9 different men.
I do have a bad habit of reading series books out of sequence but that's usually when I borrow them from the library and there isn't a whole lot of choice - there are only three Lisa Gardner audio books there from different series and that is it!So, with that in mind I do feel like I missed out on a bit of background on Quincy & Rainie - it does work as a standalone story but I almost felt like I'd cheated and read a few spoilers by skipping the first few books!The plot is exciting and action packed with a tinge of humour - love Kincaid.
The plot seemed to spend a lot of time introducing characters from different law enforcement groups who were working the kidnapping of Raine but none of the characters were interesting, well developed or apparently competent.
They all just chased their tails.The plot was also very slow and boring and even at the end of the book I was still unimpressed and bored.A lot of time was spent on Rainie going off the rails and becoming an emotional, drunken disaster.
A lot of the other characters were depressing.
If the goal was to create a group of uninteresting and pathetic law enforcement characters, the author succeeded.
This was one of my favorites of the series. The case itself kept me on my toes and had me gripping my e-reader for the last 20% or so. I also really loved the struggles and demons Quincy and Rainie are still fighting. It's one of the things I love about series that follow the same characters - being able to see the ups and downs of their personal journeys as well.
I really love this series. This one will have you on the edge of your seat guessing who did it and is everyone going to be okay. Another excellent book by Lisa Gardner!!
this is second twist will make you wonder who he is really.....while story continues it turns out to be someting you wont never guess in that way...Mostly I like the psyghological analysis of charaters from Quincy to Doggy little boy........
how she was so strong for herself and for this little boy and for her husband.......There were so much tension, horror, thriller and this is not good side story you want to keep in your mind unless you say that you are brave enough to bear reading it......TURKISH sanırım çoğu arkadaş gibi spoiler vermeden güzel yorum yazamıyorum.
Gone by Lisa Gardner is apparently the 5th book about Rainie and Quincy.
;) I wish in the book jackets they would tell you this stuff.
Hmpth.We start the book with Rainie dealing with some terrible nightmares and the knowledge that she is alone.
Someone from her past?The next morning a note appears at the local paper and it is from the kidnapper, who had obviously planned to kidnap someone because he mailed it before she went missing!
;)Quincy, ex-FBI profiler that he is, helps out the local police and worries he won't be able to save Rainie from the kidnapper or herself.
The murder of a child is one too many and pushes her into alcohol abuse and away from her husband.
But when Raine’s car is found empty by the side of a road; lights on, engine running—Quincy doesn’t know whether to fear suicide or kidnapping—until the ransom note arrives.*** Ms. Gardner really knows how to combine great characters, human emotions, a touch of romance, interesting procedural aspects, and nail-biting suspense into one very good book.
She adds enough twists to keep you going but not frustrate you.
It’s a fast-paced, not-going-to-bed-until-I-finish-it read.

Wow, this was one of the most boring books I have read in a long time. I don't know why I even kept reading, maybe hoping it would get better. It finally picked up mid way but still fell short. I also didn't know that this was in a series. Maybe I would have liked it more if I had read the rest first, but I don't want to risk it. She was very repetetive with some phrases that I found very annoying.
I'm mad at this book. I had tons of other things to do today, but instead I spent most of the day reading this. Could not put it down! Highly recommended! I'm just glad it was not one of those 500+ pagers or I'd get nothing done all week!!
This story is deeply interwoven in a way that leaves you changing your mind as to whom the killer might be.
There are so many people involved in this bizarre story that it's sort of over-indulged.
The unsub makes them appear as if they have no knowledge of what to do; pulling them along on a string.
In the typical fashion, it comes to a head in the last chapters of the book and it will keep you turning pages to find out who is the unsub.Rainie has started to crack.
One night Rainie's car is found.
Where's Rainie?
I am loving this series! Each book in the series is so unique, but still adds to the series as a whole.I'm only going to say that in this novel Rainie gets kidnapped and held for ransom. The book is super intense and involves all of the past characters from the previous novels (Quincy, Kimberly and Mac). I enjoyed how Quincy was involved with the local police department and there were some good characters within the Oregon State police. I was really surprised by the kidnapper as well.
Okay, so I was a little perplexed (upset, frustrated) after reading the line "And [Quincy's] estranged wife, Rainie Conner, gone.." in the synopsis before starting this one.
Arg.But then the story, the events from behind the scenes, everything that's happened in the last two years, unfolding throughout the mystery of Rainie's disappearance, comes to light and..
Even after finding what she thought was her happily ever after with Quincy, none of her past had gone away.
I mean, after all Quincy and his family have been through, he gets to go through another traumatic event?
And I think (hope?) Gardner will now give them a bit of a break in future books.
So, unbeknown to me, I've picked up the fifth book in the series!
While it does refer to things that have happened before (probably in other books), it really didn't matter much.
In fact, I want to read the next one in the series before going back to read the ones before!OK, back to the story.
Raine and husband Quincy are semi-retired FBI.
Trouble, it seems, appears to follow them wherever they go.
One rainy night, Raine goes missing ...
The kidnapper wants fame ..
not fortune, and it becomes a race against the clock to find Raine before it's too late.A great read.
I enjoyed reading this book, but sometimes found it inconsistent.
One one hand, Rainie is described as weak and in pain, and on the next scene she is fighting the kidnapper.
Second, if Quincy was such a good profiler, how come they all missed Danicic?
I wish the author gave the perspective of the kidnapper, just like we had for Shelly, Kimberly, Quincy and Lorraine.
I enjoy reading books which have the perspective of the criminal, so I can see where they were coming from.
Dougie Jones was such a sweet, tormented boy.
All in all, it was an OK book.
This book in the Quincy and Rainie series has been the most emotional to me. While all the books hit close to home with the couple this one hits in the home. After a week long separation Quincy finds that Rainie has been kidnapped and his world stops. While this book was much more emotional than others the crime aspect didn't thrill me as much. Maybe I never really expected Rainie to die (view spoiler)[ she doesn't die neither does the boy (hide spoiler)] and it took some of the thrill out of it
This book in the Quincy and Rainie series has been the most emotional to me.
While all the books hit close to home with the couple this one hits in the home.
After a week long separation Quincy finds that Rainie has been kidnapped and his world stops.
While this book was much more emotional than others the crime aspect didn't thrill me as much.
Maybe I never really expected Rainie to die (view spoiler)[ she doesn't die neither does the boy  (hide spoiler)] and it took some of the thrill out of it.
Everything about this novel is just so damn terrifying. I read it every year leading up to Halloween because it's a long-standing favorite of mine. The great thing about this book is that you can read it stand-alone, so if you haven't read the first four Quincy & Rainie books it's not a problem. That being said, go pick up a copy of this book today! You won't regret it and you definitely won't forget it.
3.5 stars
This was a very intense read! I loved it! I could not figure out who the culprit was and it did surprise me. I will definitely read more books by this author.
Another awesome read by Lisa Gardner!
Gardner always delivers an on the edge of your seat murder mystery/suspense thriller that I just can't put down.
Her husband, Quincy, is a former FBI profiler and he has to use his FBI experience and his knowledge of Rainie to find her before its too late.
Has she been kidnapped by someone associated to her past, someone seeking revenge against Quincy or by someone associated to one of the abused kids that she has worked with.You'll never regret reading a Lisa Gardner book!
