https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60215.The_Urth_of_the_New_Sun
;) Things are also a bit more complicated when we move from the flaming swords of Gabriel and return to earth to deal with the personal issue of fractured times and places making Severian deal with the qualities of Glory, Victory, Beauty, Severity, Mercy, Wisdom, and finally the Crown.Unfortunately for me, I was reading purely for entertainment value, so I didn't actually sit down and track every scene to a branch on the tree, but I picked up on at least 4 or 5 of them, easy.
As if, perhaps, Edgar Allen Poe had written long-form science fiction novels.The New Sun series, is not for those who demand their fantasy or science fiction served on a platter, spoon fed.
Wolfe has written a story that is ambiguous, mysterious and falls in an undefinable land between myth, fantasy and science fiction.
The New Sun series manages to be both satisfying and deeply unsatisfying simultaneously.The story follows a youth named Severian who begins life in the Guild of the Torturers (which applies the government’s “justice” to prisoners) until he eventually breaks away, has many adventures, grows into adulthood, travels through time and the universe, and eventually attempts to save the Earth from its dying sun.


I still think that it isn't quite up to the same level of magnificence as those books, but it is a different creature and great in its own right.This tale follows Severian - again through his own journals - after he has become the Autarch, the ruler of the empire and (possibly) the rightful although not actual ruler of a fractured planet Urth, with a fractious humanity dwindling under a dying sun, as he travels to the world of Ysod to stand trial for humanity and, if he passes, gain the ability to bring the New Sun to return full life to Urth.This does contain similarities to the previous books - advanced technology, the working of which having been long forgotten, appears as magic, although some still seem to understand it and it is sometimes explained in curious (arguable unnecessarily expositionary) metaphor.
The waves march toward the beach, but if you were to cast a pebble into the water, new waves, a hundredth or a thousandth the strength of the old, would run out to sea, and the waves there would feel them.”On returning to Urth Severian discovers that he arrived somewhat in the past so there is a smart time loop and he starts working miracles not unlike those in the New Testament and the story becomes unintentional or, maybe, intentional fun.And eventually the book ends up as a flowery mockery of mythologisation of earthly events and history.
OK, there is a TON that I still do not understand (not that Wolfe did not try to explain it, but it would take me some time studying it to figure it all out), but I loved the ending (view spoiler)[with the birth of a new Urth and people and gods (hide spoiler)]. I was also happy to revisit people from Severian's past and get caught up on what happened between the time he was Autarch and the time he left on his journey.
"I am not the first Severian," our hero said in The Citadel of the Autarch; it takes Wolfe fully another novel to begin to answer the questions that occur once the chills fade and you say, "cool, but...
how that could actually, like, HAPPEN?"Answer: parallel universes, timeloops, spaceships, miracles, memories, supernatural powers, "Eschatology and Genesis".
Wolfe definitely tries his damndest to explain, and you WILL finally get some answers in this book.
But more questions always appear and in the end the waters are so muddy it's impossible to come to final answers about the complicated continuity revolving around Severian's multiple deaths and mysterious transfigurations.We usually ask fiction to answer all our questions by the end.
Nutshell: liar writes shruggable intergalactic/transtemporal there-and-back-again.Beyond proficient at the sentence level, with many slick turns of phrase and cool observations. At the level of discourse, though, it's kinda hard to see the point. Might benefit from a reading of The Book of the New Sun immediately prior, though.Love how Severian at one point addresses the reader: "I will leave it to you to explain these things" (167). Okay then!Seems that this new sun business destroyed the world. Am I yawning?
I have a problem with all Wolfe's books I have read so far: they make me feel dumb.
That is to say, this is exactly what he does in the Book of the New Sun, but in such a fashion that I rarely have a moment to breathe in between passages.
Suffice it to say that the Urth of the New Sun gives (unreliable?) answers to questions raised in the previous novels, but that it also raises just as many if not more.(3) I am stupid and not worthy of understanding.So, what do we actually have here?
This might have gotten 5 stars had I read it right after the other four volumes of the series - this book frequently hearkens back to events in earlier books, and I didn't always remember them.
This is partly because the books are JAM PACKED with events and characters, and partly because of Wolfe's writing style.
important stuff coming up!" and their work is pretty easy to skim as a result.
Wolfe does the exact opposite, deliberately obfuscating the importance of events and making the reader infer the characters' emotions and motivations from their speech and actions.
As the author tells it, he hadn't planned to write this fifth book until his publisher insisted, based on the assumption that Wolfe's readers would want to know how Severian's quest to bring the New Sun back to Urth went.Though many aspects of the Book of the New Sun confused me (and it seems I'm not alone in this), these four books have stayed with me since I read them a few years ago, and as time goes on I've realized that, even though I didn't fully comprehend the various complexities of the story, its hold on me has only strengthened with time.
However, I thought it went off the rails a bit toward the end.It gave me the answers I was looking for in terms of what happened after the end of the fourth book, and I enjoyed the story it told.
Then, without giving anything away, it shed new light on many of the events from those first four books, and gave more meaning to them, and I also really enjoyed that.
Some things were spelled out, but others were quite a bit more subtle, and I enjoyed catching the various references.My problem was that I thought the author went too far with it by the end.
(For me, it has been a decade.) This is not an "obvious" coda: according to this discussion Urth exists mainly to keep a Polyanna epilogue out of Book of the New Sun. So it would be easier to ignore it, and the disruption it causes to the earlier work.
Then I might as well advocate ignoring Book of the New Sun as well, which certainly was neither an easy work nor one whose latter parts left its earlier parts alone.
I do not think I can pass judgement, recommend or disrecommend, without sitting down and again making my way (slowly, carefully!) through the entire work.
Why even read anymore.
Continued use of that phrase is a dead give-away that a writer is stuck in 1950's mode.So, I'm not even halfway through this dense and intense story, but it seems like I've read a whole book already.
Maybe the author dealt with this in the earlier stories ...Things were going along smoothly enough as I approached the end of this up-and-down book.
This is my overview of the "thing" Gene Wolfe wrote: 1) Sevarian rides a huge space-time ship to Yesod with many intense adventures - pretty good stuff, if a bit vague and confusing at times.
If you felt that many things were left unexplained in the previous 4 books "Urth Of The New Sun" will definitely explain them all but on the other hand it will introduce many more puzzles.
Anyway if you reached this far by reading and loving the first four books perhaps you already knew it as a possibility.
Here, Gene Wolfe tells the tale of now autarch Severian who takes the travel to undergo his ultimate test on Yesod, and while it is a not fictional mythology book as is Tolkien's "The Silmarillion", "Urth Of The New Sun" explains the universe and its cosmology in which Severian lives by delving into the nature of reality and time and space.
You don't have to read the other four to enjoy this one, but it helps, because the book is batshit insane at parts, and is one of the most dense bits of literature I have ever read.It takes the wacky, obscure, completely otherworldy vibe of the last four books and takes it up about a million notches by adding in a time travelling element.
Because, you know, the series was just making too much sense beforehand ;)If you loved, or even just liked, the first four books, pick this up and see what happens to Severian.
I feel inclined to give this book a lower rating because I found it to be so much weaker than the rest of the New Sun series (and however much people describe it as a 'coda' or 'not really a sequel,' it really is a direct sequel), but I don't really think that would be fair—it's still much better than a lot of the science fiction out there.
That's not a criticism in and of itself, but I feel like Wolfe's writing is just better when the plot is a bit more down to Ea(U)rth.
Using this space for some second-time-around notes.1.
It's appropriate that the epigraph is taken from a translation that is known to be a distortion of the original, and credited to the translator alone (FitzGerald's Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam).2.
And a verse from the same poem:I sometimes think that never blows so redThe Rose as where some buried Caesar bled;That every Hyacinth the garden wearsDropt in its Lap from some once lovely Head.3.
Gunnie swears by the Danaides, one of whom was named Scylla, and one of whose victims was named Idas.
4. Sidero means "iron" from the Greek root but "stars" from the Latin root.
This has to be one of the most original and complex stories I’ve ever heard (read).
I have no clue how anyone could walk away reading just the first four books.
Urth of the New Sun did shine light on many, many questions that remained after the fourth book though I still had to read the synopsis and look up a few things in the Lexicon Urthus when I was done with Urth of the New Sun to truly get closure.
It’s one of the most interesting and complex universes I’ve ever set my imaginary foot in.
I felt that some parts of this book were a delight to read and others a nightmare. My advice is to keep to the first 4 original books of the series.
All things must end, unfortunately. The Urth of the New Sun explains a lot of earlier mysteries and brings the series to a far more satisfying conclusion. The series as a whole easily stands as one of the truly great ones, though maybe for quite different reasons than most.
This was one of the worst books I have read in a long time.
I should declare my bias - I am an atheist, so Wolfe's Christian mystery play really rubbed me the wrong way.
If you like that sort of thing, T S Elliot did a far better job in "The Wasteland", ultimately without having to resort/revert to a Christian god.
When it's stretched out for a couple of hundred pages, it becomes a boring litany of pointless episodes and symbolic wonders.I enjoyed the first 4 books (admittedly with diminishing returns), because at least there were some blocks of decent prose and fun end-of-the-world building.
I can not think of anything to recommend in the so-called book 5 coda.
I finally got around to finishing up this series and was not disappointed.
I'm not sure if it is because I have become used to his writing, or simply that he eased up on his esoteric vocabulary in this last novel, but I didn't feel I was re-reading the passages nearly so often.The complexity with which he ties many of the lose ends together can sometimes leave you digging for the dark corners of memory for the referenced threads.
However what amazed me was how he effortlessly convinces the reader of alternate dimensions and time travel by simply avoiding the glaring inconsistencies many authors often struggle and fail to explain.
It all seems frighteningly realistic.This series definitely lives up to its critical acclaim.
I have a great sense (and I've read elsewhere that there is reason to sense this) that I ought to be reading Wolf several times in order to begin to get the tapestry he's woven. But, even on the first read there are apparent structures and relationships that are present, kind of like the sense one gets when walking on an iceberg (ha, which no one I know has done), sensing the immense mountain beneath one.A good followup to the first quartet. I'm about to begin on the next one.Thanks to Jason for pointing my stubborn ass in this direction.
i didn't quite love it. it's almost like a glove that isn't entirely filled by a hand; it's somewhat desultory, and you get the feeling he'd rather be somewhere else. still, a pretty good wolfe book is better by leaps and bounds than the best books of most other people, so i'm not complaining. really.
A companion piece to The Book of the New Sun, set in a giant generation-spanning spaceship, this book is equally mysterious and fascinating. Not quite as easy to understand and absorb, but certainly a worthy read. Not sure how well it works as a stand-alone novel, though.
I've read it thee times, and I'm not fond of it. It's too philosophical and off-key. Nonetheless, it's nice to see Severian again, and there's actually quite a nice bit after Severian returns to Urth.
The final chapter of the journeys of Severian, the apprentice Lictor who turned to be the final - or the first - Autarch of the Commonwealth. A bit tired part of the series, but still such a fireworks of ideas and visions that it shouldn't be left unread.
