https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18594683-snowpiercer
Sure, it's a bit of a stretch: a super-train circling the globe powered by something close to perpetual motion, running on tracks that don't appear to need maintenance. I like the boldness of the story and the all-too-human story of rich versus poor. Throw in militarized guards, unbridled decadence and human rights activists in the confined space of a train and you have Snow Piercer.
I didn't hate it, but I didn't like it either.That said, this isn't a ground-breaking story and comparing it to Orwell's Animal Farm is not only wrong, it's embarrassing.The only reason I give this two stars, is because most of what I didn't like could be due to a bad translation, but I highly doubt it.
Yeah, women love sex as much as men, but this book is a "Good grief" wrongful representation of that...completely.
I don't care if there are swear words in a book, but when they are overly-used, or used continually, it really ruins the story.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThe film is beautiful to look at, and the message apt and timely.
Regrettably they did not.It's a good film.
The film had the advantage of drawing from the whole series of them, of course, and that could well be the source of its superior character-building.All in all a good experience and an instructive one in Trump's America.
I spent a piffling 99¢ as a promotional price and couldn't be more satisfied with the value-for-money ratio.
(view spoiler)[The nugatory daughter of a secondary character gets the last minute of screen time to deliver a snowy-landscape set piece featuring a polar bear on a mountainside.
- Very misogynistic: Even the supporting female character is an irrational stereotype that can't wait to get it on in the first second of every scene she's left alone with the main character in.- Most of the major characters are paper-thin - Dialog is horrible.
There's a huuuge jump in time between them, completely skipping over a major development.
Although with all of that, and just like highly-serialized YA manga that suffers from some of the same issues (e.g. Death Note), once I saw the teaser for the cover of book 2 I went from thinking this was a complete waste of time to wanting to know what happens next - "they got me!" I thought.
3 1/2 StarsI love this concept, which was captured wonderfully in the movie of the same name starring Chris Evans.Basically the world has gone to crap.
One man from the back of the train escapes the horrors of the tail-end ghetto and sees how the other half lives.The style of this book was awkward and often very choppy.
The lack of transitions were confusing, and there was no mention of time passing even if two cells were days apart.
Still it is a great concept and the book does not shy away from bleak and disturbing.
It's a series of vignettes.Tincangoat's review raises a lot of the problems I experienced with the book, and I'd add (view spoiler)[where are they getting the hair products, makeup, and lingerie from?
Wouldn't it also make more sense for the tailies to be forced to offer tribute, and sacrifice one person every week, whatever, to be made into special 'rabbit' pies?
(hide spoiler)]The most intriguing idea for me was on two panels in pages 42/43, and this was never mentioned again.
I hope we going to come back to it in future volumes.This was OK, not great, though.

It's gloriously unsubtle social commentary, and there's more than a touch of Kafka to the way Proloff (the man who escaped) and Belleau (the activist who wants to help him) make their way through a seemingly endless procession of bar cars, sleeper cars, garden, and meat production cars, sections of the train that are unsafe ghettos, or ultra-hedonistic first class cars.
A pre-Internet book perfectly suited to a post-Occupy world, Snowpiercer sees a shape in the flat, grey horizon line of our future: it may not be the train they describe, but it is traveling our way, nonetheless.
I'll definitely check out the follow-up, this is a recommended read (approx.
I'm not sure if that is a 'lost in translation' artifact or low expectations of the reader.The movie is an uprising tale with constant fighting that accentuate the quiet moments of despair, guilt or hope.
The book is sort of a love-story.
I wish I had read the book first as the gulf threw me.
The story seems mostly complete (though not much happens honestly) so I'm not really sure where the next volume will take the tale.
I found this more interesting as a concept than as a story.
It was definitely a cool idea - a train with a thousand cars, moving eternally through a frozen wasteland, looking for safety that doesn't exist.
How things are disrupted by a third class passenger making it to the second class trains.
The art is pretty good - there are a lot of secondary and background characters who look pretty similar, which can make things a bit weird at times.
Still, it's a fairly decent art style.This isn't a great story.
Just finished this fantastic graphic novel. A train that is 1001 cars long must travel through a frozen wasteland without stopping or everyone on board will freeze to death. From the back of the train to the engine all levels of social stratification exist. When the powers that be uncover a planned revolt they decide to "de-hinge" the back trains even if it means the death of everyone in those compartments.
Yeah, no. I was soooo very excited to read this after watching the killer trailer for the movie coming out this summer. But, ugh, such a disappointment. Flat characters, so very very much misogyny, and despite the interesting idea/setting, it's...boring. I don't know how you make a story like this boring, but he managed to. Too rushed, too thin. I feel malnourished after reading it.
Awesome early dystopian concept (originally published in1984) by French author Jacques Lob; prescient in its themes of human-induced environmental apocalypse and the upheaval of social inequality. I saw the film first and the graphic novel is a bit different, but the book made me appreciate the movie adaptation even more.
I have found that elusive case of a film actually superseding a book, or in this instance, a graphic novel.
So I picked up the graphic novel with a pretty high standard in place.The plot offers a potential that was better executed on-screen and failed to fully come to life within the pages of this first volume.
There seemed to be a lack of real depth within the story, yet so much was happening.The artwork was the one element that actually carried me through to the end.
Even the film was visually drab in the best of ways.The characters play their part but offer little in terms of interest.
The black and white really helps the mood of the story, this sort of dystopian apocalypse mood set in the uninhabitable snow.
It's literally the same problems most societies with class systems face except on a train with a giant, self-replenishing slab of throbbing "meat." (SPOILERS)I found the ending confusing, as Proloff ends up "running" the train that runs itself, but won't run forever, while everyone else has died of a mysterious plague.
Is it this way only to set up a sequel?
I enjoyed this, but after reading the synopsis for the movie, I gotta say that it sounds much more efficiently delivered and contains way more Ed Harris.
It's not that I was expecting the graphic novel to fill in a lot of gaps, I just thought it might feel a fuller picture: for instance, where were the second and first class sleeping cars?
You can see the striations in the society and how second-class is a little like the part of town that was once successful but is now going a bit slummy, and you have cars that are crime havens and you have cars that a little more nice, and you realize some of these people never leave the couple of cars in their neighborhood, and it feels like a really cool SF-Story-of-Ideas.
Awesome!
It took me a while to get hold of the graphic novel, but I was excited to read about this dystopian setting: following a climate disaster, after which all of the earth froze, we are following the adventures of the few survivors riding an eternally moving train.
Humans being humans, onboard the train emerges a strongly stratified society.
The adventure follows the fight for equality of the most opressed group, the people at the tail of the train.
When they cannot logically happen, there's a miracle or a new superhero concept is added to get the story to the next jerk.
This is a book that I had to read for my apocalyptic fiction course in college.
One thing I liked about my literature courses is that it forced me to read books that I'd normally never pick up for myself, or that I'd never heard even heard of.
Translated from French, this is a dystopian, post-apocalyptic graphic novel.
I adored the concept: the world has gone to hell in a handbasket, and the way to save humanity is thanks to the inventor of the Snowpiercer train.
This train houses all of humanity and it never stops: ever.
Snow Piercer is a great premise with a mediocre story.
The story is a pretty okay one, if not a little pointless.
These people are on a train that is 1,001 cars long and aren't really living for anything.
Nothing these people do or will do will ever change anything about their lives on this train.
The story of Snow Piercer is not really anything more than "Hey wouldn't it suck if we had to live in a train forever?
There were a couple parts in this story where I was invested in the main characters, but in the end it's just about how people suck and nothing anybody does matters.
Snowpiercer is fine, I guess - it gets a lot of mileage out of its central premise and setting, and its a very fast read, so you're unlikely to be bored by it.
I liked it enough that I'll probably spend the two hours it'll take to read the sequel.
But it's also just not very good, and it's hard to read it without spending most of your time thinking about all of the squandered potential.
The characters are almost unbelievably flat - it seems there was zero effort put into giving them any psychological weight or complexity - and the interesting premise is not really developed in any interesting or surprising ways.
It is the rare book that I can say without hesitation is not as good as the movie adaptation, but Snowpiercer has joined the ranks of Blood and Chocolate.
This book was less dramatic, less interesting, less engaging, and far more sexist than its film counterpart.
It explained a great deal less than the movie, had far less probable a foundation, and the ending was leaps and bounds less satisfying.
I don't know what the authors were thinking in making this.
It contains very little in the way of characterisation, no character development at all, takes every opportunity to exploit and objectively women, and left me with far more questions than answers.
As an accomplishment, three stars. Actual reading enjoyment, two.The basic concept and the arena that Lob and Rochette have come up with are quite brilliant—a thousand-car train circling the globe, hurdling endlessly through a frozen wasteland, imprisoning passengers who think they're survivors. Quelle metaphore existentialiste!But whether it's the translation from the French or the book's vintage—it was originally published in 1984—it lacks the irony, meta-references and, well, sophistication we Americans have come to expect from graphic novels and comics. Snowpiercer, with its leaden, on-the-nose text and merely functional art, didn't really get inside me.
AN interesting read especially after reading the movie.
The film captures the tone while having completely different characters.
The premise of the graphic novel is the same as the movie - people moving up the train from the end of the train to the front.
The graphic novel wears it politics proudly and it is a fascinating read as the characters moves through the carriage.
The characters are not the most rounded and the artwork loses some of its details with characters.
The imagery of the train through the snow is fantastic.
Overall I recommend this book (and see the movie as well)
A cuenta de la película, he leído el cómic y bien que me parece, porque la película se basa solamente en la idea, pero la trama no tiene que ver con la que vemos en cómic. De todas formas, tal y como bien pone que significan las estrella, le doy 2 porque "está bien", pero nada mas. Quizás para mi hubiera funcionado mejor como historia algo mas corta y mas intensa tipo "Metal Hurlant", que de la forma en que está planteado aquí.
Book #9 - Book has a wonderful dystopian premise (humanity has destroyed the climate, everything is frozen, except a single experimental train that never stops circling the globe) but just doesn't really deliver.Without getting into spoilers, it's not a terribly logical book. Key decisions made by major characters don't make any sense and so there is a forced nature to the proceedings. Meh
I was reminded of the 2000AD comics I read in the 90s. They seemed to exist as an intellectually dishonest misanthropic fantasy. This does that. Its almost really enjoyable but merely displays an apocalyptic future in which no one deserves saving. So why should I care?It's interesting but not enjoyable or thought-provoking.
Love the premise and really enjoyed the movie which, happily and unusually, was an evolutionary step up from the original French story. This book sets the stage well, although it's obvious the pacing is lost a bit through translation (plus the typically stilted translated dialogue). Still recommended for fans of the film.
I love the Snowpiercer movie (which is now canon to the comics as of Terminus), so it's not surprising that I really like the graphic novel it's based on.
The story follows a man from the tail end of the train as he makes his way up to the engine.
We get brief glimpses of this, but since the story is focused on one man making his way through the train the story doesn't go in depth with them.The art is good.
This is a rare instance when the film adaptation of a graphic novel is more coherent and even more visually inventive than its source material.
The art is neither memorable nor particularly engaging; the originality and allegorical aspects of the narrative are the draw here, but many of the background details are only briefly elucidated here, and, it must be said, there are not enough of them to make the story make sense.
Perhaps something has been lost in the translation process (and the mechanical font of the word balloons doesn't do anything for the aesthetics of the story), but, having loved the film, I was sadly disappointed by its source material.
