https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49254.Pegasus_Bridge
This is my first experience with Ambrose, other than his Band of Brothers DVD set. I have to say that I really enjoyed the book and his style. If I didn’t know the taking of Pegasus Bridge was real I would have thought the story fiction with wonderful character development and plot twists and turns. Highly recommended for history buffs.
Fresh off his Eisenhower biography*, Ambrose was looking for a short and sweet subject.
He found it and gives it to us short and sweet, without pulling any 'Ambroses'.
It is most touching to see friendships develop between a few former adversaries.
Also, in spite of the just resentment by the French civilian population, it's hard to be hard on young, conscripted Poles who relished wine and women more than weapons drill, wisely taking to their heels when confronted with devilishly blackened elite attackers.
The bravado inherent to Airborne units lends a surreal touch to many of the tense accomplishments during the two-day holding operation.*
Ambrose
The book recalls the men and eventsthat allowed the British Glider and Parachute regiment to capture the all important bridge crossing the Orne and adjacent canal in order to prevent the 21st Panzer Division from disrupting and possibly defeating the landings at Sword, Juno and Gold Beach.
Imagine training for over two years before applying your craft and still able to maintain at a "razor's edge."The story isn't so much about the invasion on June 6, it is more about the men who partook in the action.Mr. Ambrose does an excellent job of honoring the men and woman who were the first allied soldiers to trigger the end of "Fortress Europa," and pave the way final victory.
Very quick and entertaining read on the British airborne assault of Pegasus Bridge.
Being familiar with only the HBO adaptation on Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest (which is PHENOMENAL) I was curious to check out Ambrose's writing.
I have Simon & Schuster to thank for the free copy of this one, simply for going through the trouble of signing up for their mailing list.
Anyways, Ambrose clearly does his research and it shines through during this retelling of the events leading up to, during, and after D Company assaulted the bridge.
Although dated this is still a very good account of Major John Howard and the men of Company D, the Ox and Bucks Light Infantry Regiment of the British 6th Airborne Division, and their role in capturing and holding the bridge over the Caen Canal at Benouville on the night of 5/6th June 1944.
I found it full of interesting and at times funny first-hand accounts and although this is a serious story of men at war it still has moments of typical British humour.
This is a great account of some of the first men to land on D-Day. Thanks to the author for providing a detailed and interesting account of this amazing action.
This is claimed to be the first assault by the Allies as well as the first combat engagements between the opposing parties in Normandy during D-Day. The troops were the first who liberated a French home (whose owners were spies working for the Resistance) and one of its platoon leaders was the first casualty from the Allies side in D-Day. Yes, Howard’s D Company indeed scored many ‘firsts’.I have to admit that I was a bit disappointed when I read the first pages of the book.
This is the story of how Howard's men trained and trained and executed the plan with a daring glider assault, landing only yards away from the bridge.
How they seized this bridge and held on until reinforced is the stuff of legend.The book is fully indexed, well sourced and contains the original orders given to Major Howard.
Not much has been written about this exploit so this is a must read for anyone curious about the battle of Pegasus Bridge.One can only wonder what might have happened at Arnhem if a group of gliders had dared to land as close to "the bridge too far".
-Casi periodismo.-Género. Ensayo (en realidad es más una crónica o un reportaje, pero no tengo esa clasificación en el blog).Lo que nos cuenta. Acercamiento a la operación aerotransportada británica para la toma de unos puentes sobre el canal de Caen con la intención de facilitar la penetración inmediata de las tropas que estaban a punto de desembarcar en Normandía durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial, pero acercamiento también a los que participaron, a sus vidas e incluso a la gestión del propio libro.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Two bridges gave access to the British left flank at Normandy. These bridges need to be seized and held for the success of the invasion. The book is about the men of Company D of the British Airborne who were the first allied soldiers to land in Normandy, and they took and held those bridges. While it is a story of heroics, it is also a storey of planning and leadership. It is also about free men fighting those who are not.
"At a maximum, failure at Pegasus Bridge might have meant failure for the invasion as a whole, with consequences for world history too staggering to contemplate."  ~Stephen E. AmbrosePegasus Bridge is a lesser known book by Ambrose on a lesser known battle on D-Day. It is likely lesser known to me because the British are the heroes of this story. This book tells of the British airborne troops that landed in gliders in the early hours of D-Day. They were the first to arrive on this historical da
AmbrosePegasus Bridge is a lesser known book by Ambrose on a lesser known battle on D-Day. It is likely lesser known to me because the British are the heroes of this story.
If the Nazis would have been able to cross that bridge with their tanks they could have just parked on the beaches and made life a lot worse for the Allied forces.
It was also a key bridge to bring the Allied forces deeper into France so they had to take it without it being destroyed.As usual, Ambrose's writing style is superb.
I have read a handful of Ambrose books and none have disappointed.
The bizarre and often tragic misfortunes and errors that occur in such highly charged situations are well displayed, and the many knife-edge moments where events could have easily gone one way or another but for that one strange thing going right or wrong...It's not scholarly history, but Ambrose (who is certainly no stranger to the heavier discourse) makes that clear in the first few pages.
I certainly have a clear idea of who the main characters were and what they were like as men (for the purposes of the story, of course) and developed an interest in them.
Stephen Ambrose is not a historian.
Reading Ambrose's books, you would be led to think that all US commanders were brilliant, British commanders were utterly useless and only US soldiers were really fighting.Compared to any other historian his books are simply not factual.
It would not be so bad if his books at least stuck to the facts, but they don't.
So many veterans have complained about how inaccurate his books are, but US readers take them as gospel and treat him as a real historian.
If you are really interested in Military History, read any of these authors, but stear well clear of Mr Ambrose's pseudo history.
The story is beautifully told, with great detail and character.
D Company were warned in the briefing that they must not tell anyone about the nature of their training or mission on pain of being discharged from the mission - that night Wally Parr was telling his wife the news on the phone.
The story is told from several viewpoints - Major John Howard tells that the men were greatly cheered by the delivery 2 days before D-day of escape packs (hidden compasses, etc) and French Francs.
Wally Parr notes that the Francs were all gambled away within a couple of hours.
Ningún plan de combate resiste al primer contacto con el enemigo, esta es una máxima militar que cualquier aficionado al género habrá leído muchas veces.
La historia del puente Pegasus es la de una pequeña escaramuza que posiblemente cambió el destino del desenlace del Día D, contada a partir de los relatos de los supervivientes de los dos bandos, incidiendo tanto en la pericia de los paracaidistas entrenados para la misisón y los golpes de suerte que, de un modo u otro, son los que deciden el resultado de la batalla.
Aún así es mucho más ameno que otras obras de historia bélica.
I love this book.
It is one of Ambrose's best works.
It moves very quickly and is quite clear.
He is good enough to point out some of the problems with the segments in the film, The Longest Day, covered by this book.
I will fault his description of the poor quality of British firearms.
First, no Western Allie had a real answer to the German MG-42.
The MG-42 was about the best light machine gun used during the war.
I don't know if I'd make the same claim for the German K98 vs the British Enfield.
None the less, a fine work.
This was one of the best World War 2 books that I've read. The author, Stephen Ambrose, managed to interview a number of soldiers from D Company and Germans who told their story of what happened. When you are reading, it feels as if you are almost there with the soldiers attacking the bridge. I felt as if these men deserved more recognition for what they did. Everything from Howard's leadership to them countering the tanks with their single Piat was outstanding. I would suggest this to anyone who enjoys a war story or World War 2.
Pegasus Bridge is a lesser-known Ambrose gem, and a classic of the D-Day genre. It tells the story of one company(D company of the Ox and Bucks British Light Infantry) and their commander, Major John Howard. They were tasked with capturing and holding two key bridges, that according to Ambrose would ensure the success of the entire Normandy invasion. Landing in gliders in the pre-dawn hours of June 6th, they became the first allied soldiers to set foot on French soil.
An outstanding account of WW II. The heroism and audacity of the move on Pegasus Bridge is a fascinating read. Ambrose scores great interviews with people from both sides of the conflict.
Major John Howard and his men spent much time preparing for this day, but nothing can prepare them for the brutality of war.Pegasus Bridge describes the months of preparation the British airborne troops went through and then gives minute by minute detail of D-Day. The book then tells when happens to the D company in the months after D day and then the anniversaries of D-day.
Especially cool is that a soldier who was part of the company storming the bridge that day later was played Major John Howard in the movie.As an audiobook, I’ll admit that I had a hard time first getting into this book.
That’s true until you read this book.This is the detailed and highly readable account of a group of British airborne troops who were the first men to touch enemy soil on D-Day Morning.
You will read this and never again see D-Day in quite the same light.These young Brits trained for months and months in preparation for the early morning hours when their gliders would fly soundlessly behind enemy lines.
Sometimes those gliders crashed noisily; sometimes they landed off course; but always, they delivered men who were well trained for the job.The goal was to capture the Pegasus Bridge and ensure that the Germans didn’t destroy it.
These were classic grand tactical (and thus strategic) choke points that the Allies HAD TO HAVE in order to Hold their beachhead in Europe.
The only problem with this book is its author, so we get all the goofy added patriotism, "Allied Exceptionalism", oversimplifications of military concepts, and general "American Breathlessness" that comes with any Ambrose tome.
I think this is a great introductory military history book for Junior readers, who will also be excited about the impending release of a Movie on this topic ( 2018 release date planned, I think).
not my normal reading matter but thought it looked an interesting subject and just the sort of book 
Ambrose's D-Day, June 6, 1944: The Battle for the Normandy Beaches is a gripping, comprehensive account I strongly recommend.
Pegasus Bridge is an off-shoot of the research initiated for the former book, and while it details a singularly important action, it really seems like just an extended footnote to the larger work.
The people involved deserve to have their stories recorded for posterity, but this feels a little stretched and padded to bring it up to book-length.
The general reader might want to read D-Day first, then crack this one if inspired to dig deeper.

Pegasus Bridge  demonstrates the value to historians of first-hand accounts related by those who participated in the event being described.
It is a minute-by-minute--sometimes almost second-by-second--account of the critical mission of taking intact and holding a particular bridge in the first minutes of Operation Overlord, the invasion of Normandy in World War II.
Ambrose lists the books used in his research in writing the book, but the bulk of the text is based on personal reminiscences of the British--and German--soldiers who fought.
Pegasus Bridge isn't a very long book, but then the events described didn't last long, either.
Good book, a quick read because it is such a short, captivating story.
Ambrose goes a couple years back before the battle and sets the stage by introducing the Major John Howard, who would run the operation, the man under which the mission would be a success.
Ambrose goes into great detail explaining the training of the glider pilots, their mission, and their demise.
After reading this book, shortly after watching the movie DUNKIRK, I came away with a great deal of additional respect for our British Allies.
Amazing story of a truly amazing episode in the history of warfare. When any student of military history studies planning and execution of a small-unit, military operation, several examples come to mind as excellent case studies (Eben Emael, 22nd SAS at the Iranian Embassy, 3/504 PIR at Nijmegen, 20th Maine at Little Round Top, Skorzeny at the Gran Sasso, etc.) and I believe Professor Ambrose has done a great service by detailing Major Howard and the Ox and Buck's capture of the Caen and Orne Bridges on D-Day.
I like Stephen Ambrose’s books but they tend to miss much of the military details and focus on the human stories. Of course, there’s nothing wrong with that - I like the inclusion of the human back stories - but much technical information is left out. Cornelius Ryan’s books on Arnhem and D-Day, and Max Hastings’ work on Operation Overlord, are exemplars in this respect. Still, Pegasus Bridge was an enjoyable read for a lover of military history like myself.
Stephen Ambrose was a terrific writer, historian and authority on the events of the Second World War. This book is no exception. It focuses on what happened at an important fulcrum in Operation Market-Garden, and details the heartbreak and loss of a battle that Montgomery believed would end the war by Christmas.
I really liked this book. It is a book full of facts and interesting information. I would highly recommend this book to anyone that likes reading about war. The book is set up kinda like a journal. I really like the intensity of the book. My favorite part of the book is when the allies take over Pegasus Bridge because it is pretty intense.
