https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6449075-here-was-a-man
Easy to read, but a little disjointed—each chapter was a major event in Raleigh’s adult life; readers were left to fill in (with imagination) what happened during the intervening time lapse.
If Wikipedia is to be trusted, the author, Norah Lofts, kept true to the major facts about his life.
She also seems to have done a good job presenting his character and the other major characters (Queen Elizabeth I, Essex, Shakespeare, and Sydney Phillips).
Raleigh was sent to the Tower twice, once by Elizabeth (just for getting married) and the second time by James I for twelve years.
This novel about Sir Walter Raleigh is presented in thirty-one chapters, from 1568, at his age fourteen, to his death by execution in 1618.
It is perhaps too abbreviated, lacking in historical background or political and religious perspectives.
Most of Raleigh’s compatriots and adversaries are not given the depth many readers would have liked.
The book is well written, based mostly on historical facts supplemented by fictive dialog and insights.
It is an excellent starting point for anyone who has an interest in Raleigh and the Elizabethan age.
The story of Sir Walter Raleigh in the time of Elizabeth I
I really enjoyed this story. Learned quite a bit about Walter Raleigh and his exploits. Elizabeth treated him I think the same as she did Robert Dudley. Another book to add to my Tudor collection.
I'm not sure what to say about this book.
It was an enjoyable read; the book fulfills its promise as historical fiction.
It is a series of stories about Sir Walter Raleigh.
Since I have been watched the movie "Elizabeth" and am watching the "Tudors", the stories in the book add depth to the tapestry that is England during this time.
It was subtle, which I enjoyed.
But not a lot of motion and action.
If you like historical fiction I dare say you would like it; if not, I didn't read anything compelling to recommend it.
Well written, but some strange historical revisionism going on... For no reason at all... I was a little confused when the author had Lettice Knollys marry Robert Essex, who was her own son (in fact, not in the book)! And somehow Cecil outlived Elizabeth to plot Raleigh's downfall... Other than that it was a good book.
Sir Walter Raleigh's life is told in a series of disconnected vignettes. Depth of character is lacking, and Lofts fails to make Raleigh's life seem at all exciting.See my complete review here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/h...
The back of the book thankfully misadvertises this as a romance novel. It focuses on Raleigh's life and ambitions. I knew very little of him before and now am pleased this book introduced me to the interesting character that he was.
2 1/2 starsThe first part of this book I felt like it was lacking something and almost put it aside. The second part I started enjoying but question some accuracies. The third part hmm. Maybe I will like it better another time. Labels: #Historicalfiction,#TudorEngland,#SirWalterRaleigh
I thought it a bit boring although I learned alot about Sir Walter Raleigh which is good as I didn't remember much about him that I might have learned in school.
fits with a previous reading jag...Queen Elizabeth and her courtiersfanciful view of the period
Brings the life and times of Raleigh to life! Beautifully written by one of my favourite authors !
Historical Fiction
