https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240976.The_Book_of_Laughter_and_Forgetting
The rest were mere echoes, imitations, repetitions, or reminiscences.”Ah, the endlessly quotable Kundera.
I had to hold myself back from updating my status every other page; there were just so many perfectly composed sentences I wanted to share with you, goodreaders.
Sometimes that’s all it takes to win me over, a stream of perfectly composed sentences.
Anyway, story collection, novel, diary, or amalgam of the three, it doesn’t really matter.
If you are easily turned off by sexual content, this isn’t the book for you.
If you are easily rattled by misogynistic undertones, this isn’t the book for you.
“The struggle of man against power is the struggle of memory against forgetting”The Book of Laughter and Forgetting is one of the most interesting novels I've ever read, mostly due to its structure.
Some of the central themes of each story are derived from semi-autobiographical accounts of Kundera's days as a political exile.
Kundera explores in detail the themes of memory politics, social amnesia and damnatio memoriae.The picture of Vladimír Clementis standing next to Klement Gottwald, before and after he was edited out of the picture.
The picture is one of the first mentions of memory politics made in the book.
Just like you've gotta travel to the city of Prague, Czech Rep. to feel it's overpoweringly Wonderland-esque vibe, you must read this novel. Its bonkers-brilliant! Phantasmagoric originality like this--a virtual valentine full of passions submerged & portends of an oversoul/celestial awareness to that fantastic aforementioned European city--comes very seldom in a reader's sweet life. You won't forget The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
294. Kniha smíchu a zapomnění = The Book of Laughter And Forgetting, Milan KunderaThe Book of Laughter and Forgetting is a novel by Milan Kundera, published in France in 1979. It is composed of seven separate narratives united by some common themes. The book considers the nature of forgetting as it occurs in history, politics and life in general. The stories also contain elements found in the genre of magic realism. Plot summary: Part One: Lost Letters. Part Two: Mama. Part Three: The Angels. Pa
میلان کوندرا: سرایش شعر را، از چهارده سالگی، آغاز کردند، و در هفده سالگی، پس از شکست آلمان، به حزب کمونیست کشور خود پیوستند، و در سال 1948 میلادی وارد دانشکده ی سینمای پراگ شدند.
البته کوندرا نیز به همراه بسیاری از هنرمندان، و نویسندگان چکسلواکی آنروزها، به حمایت از جنبش اصلاح‌ طلبانه ی حزب کمونیست چکسلواکی، در سال 1968 میلادی، پرداختند.
البته ایشان نخستین رمان‌ خویش با عنوان: «شوخی» را، در سال 1967 میلادی نوشته اند.
در سال 1984 میلادی، ایشان کتاب: «سَبُکی تحمل ناپذیر هستی» (با عنوان: بار هستی، به فارسی ترجمه شده‌ است) نوشتند.
Ask any Kundera fan which book of his is their favorite, and the answer will inevitably be the first book of his that they read.
His unique writing style comes as a revelation at first, but unfortunately can grow irritating the more books of his one reads.
"The Book of Laughter and Forgetting" is the first one I read, and it holds a special place in my reading history as the one book that I instantly began re-reading as soon as I finished it.
If you haven't read Kundera, I would recommend this or the much more famous "The Unbearable Lightness of Being."
إذ نركز نظرنا القلق على المهم بينما خِفية يشن التافه من وراء ظهورنا حربه التي ستغير العالم بعمق و تنقض علينا في غفلة منا.
هذا الكتاب غريب عجيب و مريب أيضا.
عالم كونديرا هو عالم متميز لا شك في ذلك فهو يخلط الجد بالهزل و الفلسفة بالبساطة و السياسة بالفن بالتاريخ باللهو بالعبث و يأخذك في رحلات طويلة ثم يعود بك مرة أخرى إلى نقطة البداية دون أن تدري فيما ذهبت و لمَ رجعت.هو كتاب أقرب للرواية ينقسم إلى سبعة أجزاء.
هذا الرقم السحري الذي يخفي آلاف الأسرار.
يستخدم كونديرا الجنس كمفتاح لكل شيء و أي شيء و يلح في ذلك بلا هوادة و بتفاصيل دقيقة جدا.
It was funny, but I can't remember why.[This is actually true, sad to tell]
“...because love is continual interrogation. I don't know of a better definition of love.”  This won’t be the Kundera book I would recommend to a reader new to him. Not that it is bad – it still has all the interesting psychology (he dislikes the word), philosophy (he dislikes that too) and sex (… Well, he is a man.); the trouble with this book is it is too much into Kunderism. The good thing about him is he never beats around the bush. It is as if he knows what he has show and only tells parts
But this time there is not only any unity of action but no unity of plot, This book is nearer to a collection of short stories rather than a single novel, stories that often aren’t connected in any way other than the common themes of laughter and/or forgetting.
Now Russian revolution and communism are angels on their way to make the world; a paradise (a place of too much uncontested meaning) and so not a very nice thing – however this paradise is tempting to people, who much like angels, want to live in a fully meaningful world.
The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything....The novelist teaches the reader to comprehend the world as a question.
You write Mrs Dalloway.How do you explore what it’s like to live through the erasure of your country’s culture, to live in a void where what gives meaning and ballast to your soul is being forgotten, where the young eagerly embrace the weighty and weightless oblivion of meaningless slogans and drivel?
You write The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
You could, theoretically, listen to each part of Pachabel’s Canon alone, treat them as separate musical works.
Likewise with the separate and distinct stories of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting: individually they are not this novel.
هل عرف التاريخ كاتبا أكثر جنونا منك يا كونديرا ؟!إن سألتموني عن رأيي بأي كتاب لكونديرا سأقول أنه يعجبني ..- ما الذي يعجبكِ فيه ؟- لا أدري- لخّصي لنا موضوعه- لا أستطيعصدقا لا أعرف كيف أصف كتبه ورواياته ولا ما أحبه فيها تحديدا ،ما أعرفه فقط أنها تعجبني وتلمسني وتدفعني للتفكّر .. وترسم على وجهي ابتسامة كبيرة :)من بين المجموعة قصة ( الليتوست ) كانت الأروع
However, there is enough thematic continuity to justify calling it a novel.Either way, it's a tower from which the émigré Kundera was able to look east from Paris and assess his past life in Communist Prague.Equally, lest it be assumed that it is totally pro-West, it also allowed its Czech characters to look west and see the world of capitalism in Paris.At the time, there was little comfort to be derived from living in one political sphere versus the other.Both spheres come in for attack from the author’s quasi-anarchist point of view:“I have come to realise that the problem of power is the same everywhere, in your country and in ours, East and West.
There may be some big differences between some of them (for example, in the second story with the title "The Angels", Kundera looks Dostoevsky straight in the eye and exchanges a few words with him, without straying from the inner personal struggle of his character Tamina and the main point of the book), but in the end, and through some enlightening clarifications on the power of laughter and the danger of forgetting (a danger which has come to be a reality nowadays in so many ways, I might add), this book is exactly that: a Book of Laughter and Forgetting.5 stars.
One of the characters in this book says that he intends to write a book about politics and love.
And, that is exactly what this is; a book about politics and love.
It is built on seven parts, and each part is a variation, although the similarities are deeply cloaked.This is a marvelous book set in Prague and Europe in the late 1960's and early 1970's.
And, that is a theme of several of the parts of the book.
Another theme is love, and sexual dalliances.The author states that this book is about a woman named Tamina, though she does not show up in the story until quite a ways into it.
القراءة الثانية لكونديرا والتي لم تكتمل أيضاً مثل سابقتها من كثرة ما قفزت فوق الفقرات والصفحات !هذا الكتاب كان محاولتي الثانية للقراءة له ،ولا أعتقد أنني سأكرر الأمر مرة ثالثة !!هناك شئ ما خطأ ..
شئ يضايقك حين تجد فكرة فلسفية ممتازة بحق ترتدي ثوباً أدبياً سيئاًشئ ما يجعلك تحزن ، حين تجد فكرة رائعة كان من الممكن التعبير عنها في صورة أدبية رائعة وكلمات ممتازة وقصة شائقة ، وبدلاً من ذلك ، تجد ثوباً أدبياً رديئاً يدور حول هاجس واحد فقط يمتلك الكتاب من بدايته لنهايته !!فالكتاب ليس رواية واحدة ..بل مجموعة قصصية تدور حول فكرتين فلسفيتين : الضحك والنسيانولكن ..
طبيعة الروايات السيئة أضاعت فكرة الكتاب !للأسف هناك الكثير من الاقتباسات الجيدة التي تقرأها مستقلة عن القصص نفسهامازال كونديرا بالنسبة لي أديب الفكرة الجيدة والاقتباس الجيدولكنه ليس أديب الرواية الجيدة!
...إنها رواية تدور حول الضحك و النسيان ، حول النسيان و حول براغ ، حول براغ و حول الملائكة قراءتي الثالثة للكاتب الغريب و المحبوب كونديرا *-* كونديرا الروائي الذي لا يحكي عبر قصصه بل يحيك رموزه السرية في قصص تختلف و تلتقي في آخر مطافها عند نفس المحطة : ألا و هي جوهر موضوع مبهم : انا و غيري قد يحدث و نشتكي من ولع كونديرا بالوصف المبتذل مما يعتبره هو بحد ذاته "حركات سخيفة " مكررة غالبيتها حول الجنس ، إلا أن وجودها الطاغي في قصصه يدخل ضمن مجموع الايحاءات المستعملة ذات بعد أكثر عمقا و هي الأشد استعمالا لدى ميلا ن و الأكثر ذكرا في حياة جل شخصياته ...
لن تجد اجابة قط ، فهي تارة مجموعه قصصية كلاسيكية لمجموعة افراد و قصص لا يجمعهم الا نفس المؤلف فنستمع الي قصة شاعر يعشق زوجة جزار ريفية و يتشاجر مناقشا جوته و ڤولتير ، و تارة نرى انفسنا في صالون اسرة تتكون من زوج و زوجة و صديقة مشتركة تمارس الجنس مع كلاهما و في الظل تظهر ام الزوج التي تكافح النسيان و تداخل الذكريات ، ثم نتحول الي قصة ارملة وحيدة تكافح نسيان الماضي ، و بدون مقدمات نقفز لحياة كونديرا ذاته و الفترة التي قضاها هاربا متخفيا يكسب رزقه من كتابة مقالات "حظك اليوم" تحت اسم مستعار ، ثم نضحك مع فتاتين يقرؤن مسرحية يونسكو ، ثم نعود بلا تهيئة الي الارملة السابق ذكرها لتعيش علي طريقة رواية "ملك الذباب"و من ثم نتسأل هل تلك مجموعة قصصية؟ الاجابة هي بالتاكيد لا ...
أجل ، أريد أن أحطم فيه كل التابوهات ، وأبوح بكل شئ ، أقول كل شئ عنى ، عن وجودى وعن كل ما أفكر فيه ، وسيكون فى الآن نفسه كتابًا سياسيًا ، كتابًا سياسيًا عن الحب ، وكتاب حبّ عن السياسة ..
طبّق كونديرا ما يقول فى الاقتباس الأول بحذافيره ، فكتب كتابًا سياسيًا عن الحب ، أو كتاب حبّ عن السياسة.
يوزّع كونديرا نفسه على شخصياته ، فتجد أن كل شخصية قد حصلت على جزء منه ; السياسى المنافق والمحامى البارع ونادلة البار والمرأة الريفية والشاعر العظيم وعاهرات المدينة وغيرها ..

Come si ci fosse un sottile confine su cui ci muoviamo, tale per cui un piccolo impercettibile spostamento fa mutare una situazione da drammatica a ridicola, da importante a inconsistente, da emozionante a grottesca, da paurosa a surreale.Basta una parola a far crollare la tensione, una parola che ci fa dare una lettura completamente diversa a un accadimento.Il libro di Kundera, descrive, in enne variazioni su tema, situazioni che passano da un estremo all'altro attraverso piccoli scostamenti successivi che fanno cambiare prospettiva e quindi significato.Centrale nel libro il tema dell'oblio.
Kundera was my first ever literary hero.
His titanic stature in my adolescence made me reluctant to re-read his works as an adult, and I gotta admit re-reading this book in my twenties was a strange experience.
I'm still enchanted by his unparalleled psychological incisiveness and para-philosophical escapades, but I just don't find him to be the behemoth he once was in my eyes.Having read this a second time, I'm more confused than impressed by his strange symbolism and fourth wall breaks.
I still believe this is a great book and one of his finest, it all comes down to how open the reader is to Kundera's eccentricities.
Weird, weird, weird.
Was hoping for quality since it was an international best seller, and who knows, maybe it was just too high-brow for me, but I didn't enjoy it.
It concentrates on how communism makes people lose their humanity and become just desire-less, shallow, and brain dead.
There are a lot of really uncomfortable sex scenes involving children and others in which the act is just humorous and emotion-less, not even erotic just mechanical but not for the usual reasons of boredom with a partner but just boredom with the act itself.
I don't know.
He was shooting for a message of people becoming disattached from living because of the politics, but it was just weird.
Kundera again fascinates with his matter of fact, take it like it is, humorous and utterly intellectual writing style propped up, again, by the historical event that must have rattled his life experience the most: the Prague Spring Revolution of 1968.
One quote I will share here might be the most marvelously indignant critique of the blogosphere and hypercommunication age, which this very website is a spawn of: Once the writer in every individual comes to life (and that time is not far off), we are in for an age of universal deafness and lack of understanding.
"The struggle of man against power is the struggle of memory against forgetting."“The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything....The novelist teaches the reader to comprehend the world as a question. There is wisdom and tolerance in that attitude. In a world built on sacrosanct certainties the novel is dead. The totalitarian world, whether founded on Marx, Islam, or anything else, is a world of answers rather than questions. There, the novel has no place"These words are not from me but from the novel itself.
Brilliant in parts, but also messy and uneven.
It is a twisting novel of lovers, sex, names, poets, poltiics, borders, history, memory, nations and being.
It slides from one original idea into another like remote lovers in a well lubricated orgy of ideas.
I don't know if it loses me because I loved The Unbearable Lightness of Being so much more, or if Kundera just failed to grab me by the intellectual shorthairs.
It reads (not in specifics, just in style and tone) like someone took several Wim Wenders films and randomly spliced pieces from his oevre; sometimes backwards, sometimes upsidedown, frequently disorienting.....................- Robert Farwell / Edward Jones library / Mesa, AZ 2014
كونديرا , الصديق اللدود ... و الماكر الذي يتقن السخرية أكثر من الحياة نفسها أحياناً , في "الليشوست" الأول الخاص به .عن الضحك و النسيان ... وبراغ , و تامينا
I prefer Unbearable though because it has one plot and one or maybe two themes: that people belong to either lightness or heaviness and that we are living in an infinite universe so everything is guaranteed to recur infinitely.In Laughter and Forgetting, there are 7 short stories, mostly with different set of characters and different plots.
I am just a simple reader, who had only 3 units of World Literature in college, and currently working in Information Technology, so maybe it is beyond me to interpret what's with Tamina's character that is being reflected by the other 6 stories.

Having an ugly mistress is therefore a fatal mistakeFuture and pastThe future is only an indifferent void no one cares about, but the past is filled with life, and its countenance is irritating, repellent, wounding, to the point that we want to destroy or repaint it.
We want to be masters of the future only for the power to change the pastHistorical eventsHistorical events mostly imitate one another without any talentAt a time when history made its way slowly, the few events were easily remembered and woven into a backdrop, known to everyone, before which private life unfolded the gripping show of its adventures.

I found the characters and their situations absolutely uncompelling.
I felt like I was reading a movie treatment, a sketch for a scenario.
Flat, jejune.
And aside from the opening image of the borrowed hat and it's disgraced, airbrushed-out lender, I found very little that was striking or poetic in the prose itself.
I'm a huge fan of Kundera's non-fiction (especially Testaments Betrayed, a lyrically erudite book, with an elucidating defense of Kafka from Brod-ism, a paean to Janacek, and a thrillingly brutal demolishment of Adorno's musical writings--plus a thousand other beauties), so I'll give his fiction another go, just not this book.
