https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32713664-dawn-s-early-light
This is the first in a series of seven historical novels called the Williamsburg Novels, which follow the families of the Days and the Spragues of Williamsburg, Virginia, through over 160 years, many generations, and several wars (from the American Revolution in Dawn's Early Light through the beginning years of World War II in This Was Tomorrow and Homing).
I have read them so many times (starting when I was about seven years old) that I practically have them memorized, as have most of the other women in my family.
Thankfully, Julian makes the acquaintance of St. John Sprage, and they become fast friends even against the political unrest going on around them and the barrier that comes from them being of separate opinions on the verge of war.
The least said the better, when it comes to the proud Regina, who delights in playing with people's feelings, particularly St. John through the blind Julian.
St. John's sees exactly what she is, and loves her anyway.
I love the side story the author gave her, for me is was completely satisfying.
I can't remember the last time I read about a character I loved so much.
His father died on the voyage, but Julian soon makes friends including the Sprague family who take him under their wing.
JuliaN finds himself torn between his loyalty to King George and his new friends who want freedom from the crown at all costs.
Julian takes the vacant position of schoolmaster and the story focuses on his relationships with the Spragues as well as the two urchins he takes under his wing - Kit (Christopher) and Tibby (Tabitha).
Well, Tibby loves Julian.
Julian thinks Tibby loves St. John.
Dorothea loves Julian.
Perhaps because I have just finished a deeply detailed reading of Elizabeth Gaskell's psychologically brilliant romantic history North and South, I found the women and the romances in Thane's book superficial, unconvincing and a distraction from the strong central character and his powerful experiences.The final chapters in which (view spoiler)[every one gets paired off for an improbable HEA is particularly unnecessary and weak.
(view spoiler)[It would have been so much more plausible to simply hint at her growing, changing feelings for Julian and then to have him come back from the war to see this lovely young woman all grown up.
I found this book accidentally, when I searched "Williamsburg" in my hometown library's database, before making my first (of many) trips there.
I didn't get a chance to read it before I went, but read it a couple of weeks after I had gotten back.
There was definitely something to it, not reading the book before I went.
I think I would have been disappointed had I not found Colonial Williamsburg the same charming, laid-back yet self-confident town that Elswyth Thane had so eloquently portrayed (that's not to say that it isn't, just that the focus on tourism takes some of the charm away).
This is a very well-written, heavily researched story of the American Revolutionary period in Williamsburg, VA.
Thane's writing style transports you straight to the period and scenery, so much so that you feel and hear and see and smell all the things in the scenes.
Julian, Tibbie, St. John, Dorothea, Regina...etc, etc,...all seem to spring off the page.Now, fair warning: there is a lot of profanity.
I would have read this story much faster if they hadn't been so free with their curses.
As it was, I did lay the book aside a number of times to get some space from the language.
This is the first of Elswyth Thane's 7-book Williamsburg series, which follows the Day and Sprague families from the time of the American Revolution up to WWII.This one, about the American Revolution, was first published in 1943 but is not dated for modern readers except perhaps for the acceptance of and lack of indignation about slavery on the part of the colonist characters in the book.
It's a quality series of books that Thane wrote that can be read by young teens.
A couple of the romance aspects were difficult to obscure in order to approach a process to embed, enjoy and understand the dynamics of Julian's changing loyalties.
And not just for soldiers, although people in any army probably understand that kind of momentum.It's a good illustration of the questions and lengths to purpose most citizens of these colonies would have at this particular time.
And quite apart from the system of "everyman" that was starting to settle in so many New World towns and cities.It would have been a better book if it was completely Julian's conscience and thoughts dominated throughout.
Julian is still an enjoyable character and I like seeing how his desire to simply blend in and avoid conflict slowly morphs into a desire to do something, anything to protect his adopted homeland.Rating: 4 stars The Revolutionary War is one of the most fascinating time periods in history for me.
This novel brings Williamsburg to life during that turbulent time and peoples it with characters both real and imagined.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book and I intend to read the rest of Thane’s Williamsburg novels.
I grew up reading and rereading Thayne's Williamsburg series. I'm thrilled that the first two books are now available digitally. I hope the other books in the series will soon be added, and I would be happy to see Tryst and Remember Today available as well.
I loved this book.
It was a fascinating look into the Revolutionary War era.
The story centers around a newly arrived young man, Julian Day, from England, suddenly left on his own by the death of his father on the journey overseas.
We journey with them through the years spanning the war.
I thoroughly enjoy books that make you feel like you were there, that cause you to view the characters as personal friends, and that make history come alive so you leave with a new appreciation of times long ago.
I'm looking forward to finding more books by this author!
This is my second time through the Williamsburg Saga. I love historical fiction, romances, and books set in locales that I am familiar with. This book satisfies all three. I enjoy hearing the politics of Revolutionary War America "first hand" and getting to know some of the prominent personalities a little better. (Ms. Thane, I hope you did your homework and didn't invent these things out of wholecloth!) I love Julian Day and Tibby and their story. I love this book.
This is historical fiction, based on the revolutionary war. Some romance, too! It was great!
He's come to America, to Virginia, to be a school master.
St. John is madly in love with Regina Greensleeves.
(He may be right on that.) Julian, meanwhile, is blinded by two things: Regina's beauty AND Tibby's undying love for him.
It's just not fair--she insists--that her brother gets an opportunity to go to school and she doesn't.
I love that it's a first in a series.
I love that the series is a family saga that will span generations.
I love that it's set in America.
I love the historical aspects of it.
This is a 7 book historical series (The Williamsburg Series) that follows several families from pre-Civil War all the way through World Wars. Lots of interesting historical information regarding the US and Europe. There's romance, suspense, family drama, etc... If you like history at all, you'll probably like this series.
I liked the characters and the story. I may have skimmed just a little during the descriptions of so many battles. I look forward to the next one.
I'd never heard of it prior to this summer.Dawn's Early Light is the first in a series about a family and begins in Williamsburg just prior to the American Revolution.
It's been a long time since I've read a historical fiction that focused more on the historical than the fiction, but I mean that as a compliment.Without spoiling too much I will add that there is one situation where a young girl falls in love with a man much older than her.
Any reader who loves American history will likely find Dawn's Early Light an enjoyable read.
To his surprise, Julian is given a splendid welcome, offered the position meant for his father and decides to stay a while.He meets several women, the Mawes twins, one of whom is called Tibby, A Virginian beauty, Regina and his host's sister, Dorothea.
His host, St. John means to marry Regina but smitten by her beauty, Julian is confused for a long time.
Then one day it dawns on him that Tibby has become a woman.This book is stuffed with many historical figures and famous battles ending with the stand-off at Yorktown all against a background of a tender romance.
I know hardly anyone outside my own family who has read these books, but I love them. I think I learned more history from these than from any history class I have ever taken. As I learn more history, things tie in to what I've learned from these books so that I remember better. Some things are definitely dated, such as the anti-German sentiments, but that makes interesting history of its own since those views were popular at the time the books were written. I own the whole series and reread it every few years.
Oh dear. I did so want to like this more.Ms. Thane - I can, without second thought, accept a girl falling in love with a ghost - that's wonderful and perfectly unobjectionable! But an eleven year old girl falling in honest-to-goodness-love with a 21 year old man, on the other hand... Please, no. Actually, I found every aspect of Tibby's personality and actions unbelievable.I'm going to keep reading this series, though; I'm a sucker for a good family saga and maybe I'll like the next installment better.
I love Elswyth Thane's Williamsburg series. Since this is the first & sets up the families that intertwine & appear in the subsequent ones it deserves five stars, even though it's not my personal favorite. I prefer less war, more history. Still, we wouldn't have the others without the original, so here's to the Spragues & the Days.
My little 80 year old friend at church loaned me this book, because she heard me say that I really love historical fiction. This one is #1 in this author's series called "The Williamsburg Novels", and was written in 1942. As you can see by my rating, I loved it.
What a delight to discover Elswyth Thane! This book was set in Williamsburg at the onset of the Revolutionary War and contained history, subtle romance and a really neat cast of characters. I can't wait to read book 2 in the series.
I loved this book .The first in THE WILLIAMSBURG NOVELS starting from Colonial America to World War II. Tibby is one of my favorite characters of all time. I plan on reading all some day ( on my book shelf). OH THE TIME..............
I very much enjoyed this book. It was very well written and researched and she does a fabulous job recreating the ideals and attitudes of Williamsburg during the Revolutionary War. Some of the storylines were too pat for me, but it was an overall very lovely read.
A favorite series since I first read this book in my girlhood. Fun read.
I loved this book a whole super lot, but I'm still processing it to see if I need to have any serious objections to it.
;)My only concerns, really, are as follows:1) I want so badly to unreservedly LOVE the main romance, but .
And I mean I know the guys she's writing about would never dream of doing anything inappropriate to the young ladies, and she just included those observations to be truthful and realistic, but still.
The first 50 pages are not indicative of the rest of the series- so make your way through and wait to meet Tibby.
If you have been to Williamsburg, you can see much of this book in your minds eye- because it comes alive on the page.
This is the first series I read as a teenager and I have loved them ever since and go back and read them every five years or so.
This book captures a small part of what times were like during the American Revolution.
Start here- and keep on with the rest of the series.

Probably 4.5 stars.
We first meet Julian Day on his twenty-first birthday, when he arrives in Williamsburg in 1774.
Since his father died on the journey, he is now alone, but he quickly finds friends, in particular, the Sprague family — St. John, his sister Dorothea, and their aunt Anabel; and young Tibby Mawes and her twin brother Kit. From the very beginning Tibby adores Julian.
Julian has a first-row seat in the process, and sees his views gradually change from Tory to Patriot.
Enjoyable views of some of the most famous men of the era.
