https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96712.The_Dialectic_of_Sex
My first serious girlfriend was a feminist and through her I started to read and think about feminist arguments.
Generally it is usual to start with De Beauvoir's The Second Sex or Germaine Greer's The Female Eunuch.
I started with this one!
One of the more radical feminists, this really challenged my learnt behaviours and learnt ideas.
I liked the way she used Marx's "means of production" argument and used it in relation to the "means of reproduction".
I went on to read books by Dworkin, Brownmiller and the above texts, but this is the one that set me thinking.
Firestone has a section on 'feminism and ecology' which is essentially an overly simplistic look at the ecological crisis, with all the blame placed on the 'population problem.' Thus the solution to environmental degradation is for women to overcome their own biology, and for reproduction to happen cybernetically, with children communally cared for.
So, try though she may, I don't think that Firestone is able to lay out a plausible picture of what a future, patriarchy-free society might look like; I just don't think her hopes for a 'cybernetic socialism' are either realistic or desirable.*"Yes, you say, but surely it would have been better for the children of the working class could they too have lived sheltered by this myth [of childhood].
Best read in the sociology of gender that radicalized notions of what feminism could and should be for me.
Writing this because I'm thinking a lot of Shulamith Firestone's death tonight.
A professor in media studies lent me his copy of Dialectic of Sex when I was 18 and i remember how it fundamentally changed my thinking.
As a young feminist reading a lot of Marx and thinking of socialism, it really brought home the concept of reproductive labour.
And I referenced the book a lot both in school and personally.
I think I'll read it again and write a more thoughtful review 14 years after reading it.
Three thousand years ago, women giving birth "naturally" had no need to pretend that pregnancy was a real trip, some mystical orgasm (that far-away look).
The cult of natural childbirth itself tells us how far we've come from true oneness with nature.
Perhaps a mystification of childbirth, true faith, makes it easier for the woman involved.
The squirming husband at the bedside, like the empathy pains of certain tribesmen ("Just look what I go through with you, dear"), may make a woman feel less alone during her ordeal.
In order to prove her theory, Firestone has to show a causal link between racism and sexism.
To do this, she takes a bizarre psychoanalytic perspective that characterizes white/Black race relations in the United States as Oedipus and Elektra complexes; the end result is basically spending a whole chapter victim blaming Black women and talking about how sexist the Black Power movement was in her eyes (in reality the Black Panthers were around 70% women according to some estimates and supported women's liberation more or less completely after 1969).
She doesn't touch on any other race relations and in fact in another chapter belittles Indigenous struggles.
"(inauthentic) racism"I think the general position on her is that she was a brilliant thinker who sometimes missed the mark. My thoughts are she's a very weak thinker who had one or two insights. It's not just her virulent racism. It's her sloppy arguments re freudianism, overpopulation, childhood and incest etc. (TBH my position on her has been shaped by the fact that the first thing I heard about her was that she argued that racism is just sexism extended and I've been contemptuous of her and people who think highly of her ever since.)
Firestone is writing facts about this society – men and women are not equal because of the fact that only women can give birth.
Others get depression, guilt … Maybe Firestone’s solutions are radical (artificial ways to have kids).
Don’t we have third world women getting pregnant for women from USA or Europe today?
But her solutions aside, the real question after reading Firestone remains: it possible to reach equality in a society where only women are responsible for giving birth and most of childrearing?
People don't understand this book, and it's easy to misinterpret it and label Firestone as a delusional antiquated radical feminist who disappeared into obscurity anyway, but the thing is this book is the best starting point for social change that I have ever come across.
Firestone does have a certain bias against homosexuality which is one of the biggest reasons why I think of this book as a starting point and not a complete analysis, strategy or understanding of world politics.
The world hasn't actually changed that much since the Sixties.
This book is total whiplash. Firestone is totally brilliant one moment, and totally ridiculous the next. Even though I agreed with many of her premises, and some of her conclusions, I was often bewildered by her thought process -- she really needed to lay off the Freud, and maybe go out and meet some actual children. Her tone, too, is hard to take. She reads like an out-of-touch guidance counselor or a hopelessly square academic.
I wanted to understand.
I hid it in my underwear drawer, next to the pilfered pack of Winstons I'd stolen from my Dad, so my mother wouldn't get that sad, nervous look on her face, like I hated her because I wanted something different; like I'd go off to college and get too much education and forget about God and start taking drugs and date inappropriate people and never come home and not end up being a missionary or a Gospel singer.
Although I do not agree with some of the minutae of this book, it is impossible to overstate the importance (and relevance) of this book to Women's Liberation. As with Kate Millett's "Sexual Politics", there is no feminism today worthy of the name that has not grown out of the seeds that Firestone planted.
I never want to see the term "racial Oedipal complex" ever
Firestone is strongest in her analysis of the history of feminism, the failings of Freudian psychology, and the role of love and romanticism in heterosexuality (although she doesn't name it as heterosexuality), and she doesn't sugarcoat her critique of men's oppression of women.
Of course, her visions of artificial wombs and technology to alleviate women of domestic chores are products of the time, with the book written in 1969, but it is nevertheless unfortunate that she cannot see the connection between men's domination of women and "man's" domination of nature, instead seeing the latter as part of the solution to the former.
throw out genders and sex roles: all reproduction will be artificial and neither women nor men would have any special attachment to the child as "their own"2.
throw out economic dependence by incorporating the communist policy: control of the means of production in the hands of the public, and every human will be given a basic income from the government for physical sustenance.There are several loopholes that I could think of in her principles, even if you allow for the fact that the cybernation and the completely artificial reproduction society is just around the corner (47 years ago, she said "soon").
It gave rise to sexual class and division of labour (men for production ; women for reproduction).
While claiming that Marxist analysis of class struggle based on economic factor failed to grasp the true cause of social division, she took us back to our own bodies and see for ourselves the inherent inequality in our biology.
It is this inequality that also gave birth to the creation of family and superficial sense of love and romance.
However, as a fan of Butler and Foucault, her analysis lack foundational critique which characterized the embodiment of our identity particularly through the creation of gender itself.
Great introduction but as I read more, i realized her analysis on race is really, really bad. I think she's racist...She belittles indigenous resistance and Black Panthers among others. This is all my fault. If i finish Angela Davis's Women Race and Class (she criticized this book in Chapter 11), i wouldn't buy this book!!There is some good ideas, yes, but i cannot get pass this blatant racism.
Shulamith Firestone understood better than anyone that has ever lived the way in which women's oppression intersects with the oppression of youth. Anyone interested in feminism or youth liberation needs to read this book.
Simply a must read. I don't care who you are or what you think you think about sex differences or what you think about Marx. Shulamith will set your ass straight on key issues.
Ms. Firestone makes astute observations that illustrate the failures of Marxism and the Psychoanalytical movement at understanding what women want.
However, I do not agree that they should experience "as much genital sex (with adults) as they are capable of", as Ms. Firestone suggests near the end of her book.
We need to figure out a way to rewire women so they don't ever reach the point where babies make them swoon.
Because I also know that they are the same instincts that create great tragic art.
Firestone's contention that there will be no death is preposterous.
The struggle against death has created us.
I really wanted to like The Dialectic of Sex, but unfortunately a lot of the ideas were extremely dated or questionable.
Starting from chapter three, 'Freudianism: The Misguided Feminism', Firestone attempts to analyse all aspects of patriarchal and capitalist culture using purely Freudian terminology and concepts, which results in super problematic assumptions regarding parent/child relations, homosexuality, and race relations, and a really weird fixation on the 'incest taboo'.Chapters which I liked:1.
The Dialectic of Sex2.
The Culture of Romance9.
Dialectics of Cultural HistoryMost of 10.
I most enjoyed the final chapter, in which Firestone sets out some (as she herself admits) "dangerously utopian" ideals for humanity -- a feminist science-fiction, after a fashion -- while acknowledging that it is not the revolutionary's place to suggest how the world should be, just to fight against what is flawed in society as currently set out.
All they need to know is that the present system is destroying them." There may, thankfully, be some aspects of our present society which have moved on since this book was written, yet there is still, even now, a case for feminist revolution.
Shulie does what Freud, Marx, and Engels combined fell short in doing. She synthesizes a class analysis that incorporates the politics of sex. Firestone's Dialectic should be taught alongside primary philosophical texts, not buried in the reading lists of only women's studies. Her text is radical, socialist, feminist. Firestone breaks ground in a way that her male counterparts did not. She critically examines the past, present, and future of power dynamics and gender as a structure of inequality. A great companion text to read with Simone de Beauvoir's work.
Firestone argues that the fundamental dialectic of life is not economics, but sex. She makes a pretty compelling case.  Like most early feminist writing, it's depressing to contemplate, but also kind of exhilarating -- imagine all these women, slowly beginning to make connections internally, then with each other, to say "wait a minute, something's not right here."
There's some cool and interesting stuff in here...there's also Freudian/kinda racist bullshit in here. Also: phrases like "racial Oedipal complex" and "(regarding: "ghetto communities") "child sexuality: it's a groovy thing, the kids love it" are unspeakably uncomfortable.
Endlessly anti-black.I was also annoyed and low key grossed out by her need to psychologize white supremacy (and patriarchy sometimes) as some sort of repressed, unsolved, psychosexual failing.Yikes.
Fascinatingly radical proposals but horrible, unverifiable Freudian arguments
I shelve this book with Herland, not because they are similar (they are not) but because they are both historically significant to feminism yet indefensible on their own merits.
Great book and I especially love her focus on love and relationships and the way patriarchy affects them. But the book is limited by its Eurocentrism and its 2nd wave feminism.
Universal economic independence, cybernetic communism and self-determination for all!
