https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4630.To_Have_and_Have_Not
The illegals Harry transports are as desperate as working class illegals often are.
Hemingway offers us a look at the sorts of desperation these haves experience.
Usually I don’t think about it." Harry had risked his life to provide for his family, but the haves seem at a loss when faced with a loss of workless income.
Harry is screwed by the world so does what he has to do, which includes considerable physical risk.
Things do not work out all that great for Harry.
It might illuminate themes and other specifics in Hemingway's later works, while providing a dark look at a dark time.
At least, that’s the way it felt to me.
It begins as the very straightforward story of an out of luck ship captain who turns to crime in order to support his family.
Nothing is that simple in Hemingway.
While connecting to the current political and economic climate (which included an incipient revolution in Cuba), Hemingway transforms this personal tragedy into something infinitely more complex and more universal.
In itself, that’s not surprising; however, I’m not sure that had been the plan.
Even as To Have and Have Not becomes more interesting (and more Hemingwayesque), it begins to feel increasingly disjointed.
He introduces secondary and tertiary characters with incredible detail, but with no discernible purpose.It's not one of his better books, and ends leaving you wondering how much better it would have been if the writing from about the second third on was more substantially interconnected.What's great about this book, if you want to enjoy it/study it/comment on it -- is that he really does scatter shot his Hemingway.
but meanwhile, there's a CRITICAL character standing off to the side smoking a cigarette doing absolutely nothing.Go read The Old Man and the Sea -- or "For Whom the Bell Tolls" ...
leave this for the poor sots at school who are forced to read everything by him.
"a man ... ain't got no ... hasn't got any ... can't really ... isn't any way out. No matter how ... a man alone ... ain't got no bloody chance." Harry Morgan A novel of the Depression Era,  To Have and Have Not  follows the struggle of Harry Morgan to make ends meet, to live a decent life. He is a boat owner sailing the waters between Cuba and Key West, renting out to rich tourists lookinh for the thrill of big fish chasing. The novel opens with a spectacular gunfight in front of a bar in Hava
ain't got no bloody chance."	Harry Morgan A novel of the Depression Era,  To Have and Have Not  follows the struggle of Harry Morgan to make ends meet, to live a decent life.
For the good parts, I really liked the time spent on the sea and the way the relationship of Harry with his wife is described.
Most of the problems I had with the story come in the second half of the novel, where the author loses the focus and starts to write about a lot of secondary characters loafing around Key West and having little to no connections with Harry's story.
615. To Have And Have Not, Ernest HemingwayTo Have and Have Not is a novel by Ernest Hemingway (publ. 1937) about Harry Morgan, a fishing boat captain out of Key West, Florida. The novel depicts Harry as an essentially good man, who is forced by dire economic forces beyond his control into the black-market activity of running contraband between Cuba and Florida. A wealthy fishing charter customer (one of the "Have's") tricks Harry by slipping away without paying after a three-week fishing trip,
1937) about Harry Morgan, a fishing boat captain out of Key West, Florida.
The novel depicts Harry as an essentially good man, who is forced by dire economic forces beyond his control into the black-market activity of running contraband between Cuba and Florida.
Harry then makes a fateful decision to smuggle Chinese immigrants into Florida from Cuba to make ends meet in supporting his family.
رمان همچو بیشتر کارهای همینگوی، «جزئی نگر» و «دیالوگ محور» است، و پرداخت صحنه‌ ها، یگانه و شورانگیز است.
If you've never read Hemingway, this isn't the book for you.
If you don't like experimentation, this isn't the book for you.
If you're turned off by violence, this isn't the book for you.
If you want happy endings, this isn't the book for you.If, however, you have dabbled in Hemingway and you want a challenge, this is the book for you.
If you dig experimental literature, then this is the book for you.
If you can stomach violence or you recognize its primacy in the human experience, this book is for you.
If you are a socialist, this book is for you.
If you hate happy endings, this book is for you.
!همینگوی و تهرونهفت-هشت ماه پیش میخواستم برم تهرون. کردستان ایران که بودم توی شهر مریوان، این کتاب رو گیر آوردم تا توی راه سیزده-چهارده ساعته تهرون بخونمش.. چرا همینگوی رو انتخاب کردم؟ نمیدونم.خلاصه تقریبا نصفشو خونم ولی نزدیک همدان حوصلهام سر رفت و کنارش گذاشتم. چند روز پیش بازم از نو شروع کردم و خوندمش. بنظرم خوب بود ولی خیلی خیلی نه! میگفتن همینگوی عالیه و بخاطر همین توقع بالاتری ازش داشتم. با این حال، کی میدونه شاید اون کتاب دیگرش پاریس جشن بیکران بهتر از این یکی باشه و بیشتر به دل بچپسه..و
!همینگوی و تهرونهفت-هشت ماه پیش میخواستم برم تهرون.
کردستان ایران که بودم توی شهر مریوان، این کتاب رو گیر آوردم تا توی راه سیزده-چهارده ساعته تهرون بخونمش..
چرا همینگوی رو انتخاب کردم؟ نمیدونم.خلاصه تقریبا نصفشو خونم ولی نزدیک همدان حوصله‌ام سر رفت و کنارش گذاشتم.
بنظرم خوب بود ولی خیلی خیلی نه!
میگفتن همینگوی عالیه و بخاطر همین توقع بالاتری ازش داشتم.
با این حال، کی میدونه شاید اون کتاب دیگرش پاریس جشن بیکران بهتر از این یکی باشه و بیشتر به دل بچپسه..و فهیدم توی راه طولانی اصلا کتاب خوندن خوب نیست، پدر آدمو درمیاره.
I feel slightly less guilty knowing that Hemingway himself thought this was the worst book he had ever written, but even so, I must be missing something major because I found the prose dull, stilted, unemotional and simply boring. I couldn't connect with any of the characters and that was a big problem. A couple of pages were of interest, but overall I was desperate to finish and celebrating when I did.
Hemingway is still my favorite writer.
I've enjoyed all of his books, and I've learned from his style - minimal use of adverbs - maximum use of one-syllable words - clarity of expression - all of that and more.
So why did I rate this book down, as 4 stars instead of 5?
I understand that Hemingway wrote in the "modernist" mode.
That is to say, there are no happy endings in Hemingway's books.
Still, I would like the protagonist be a person I can root for, even if he doesn't win in the end.
This book is widely considered one of Hemingways worst, and there's even a tale floating around that he told director Howard Hawks that he thought it was a pile of shit.
Can you feel the way Hemingway loves Marie?He does.
Hemingway loves Marie the way he loves Pilar in For Whom The Bell Tolls, and it is beautiful -- especially the way its read by Will Patton.For me, this time, To Have and Have Not was about Marie, and by the end I am sure she's going to be just fine.
I liked the fact that Hemingway kept things murky here, but Harry's amoral (and desperate) character really comes into sharp focus.
This section is interesting, because you get a glimpse of what Hemingway must of thought of the New Deal, as he has Harry spotted by an official with the government who happens to be on another boat.
Hemingway spends considerable time (in a short novel) applying the wrecking ball to their lives, while offstage Harry, a true man of action, is fighting and dying.
How can a writer, whose phrases are bleak, whose characters are mean, and who has a dismal outlook on life even on his best days make you tremble?
The scene between Harry and his wife, Marie, is tender and tragic, juxtaposing a black-hearted opportunist with a flawed but loving man.
Unfortunately, the writing is classic Hemingway: every character sounds exactly alike, the flow, regardless of point of view, does not change.
The disjointed narrative reads like two novellas joined by loosely-intersecting characters and the story suffers from the relentless grind of depravity.
Although Harry Morgan declares "A man..
کتاب های همینگوی رو دوست دارم چون منو یاد چخوف میندازه(فقط یاد، نه بیشتر!)این که توی داستان یهو میپرید یه جای دیگه برام اعصاب خرد کن بود ولی وقتی یهو به هم ربطشون میداد خیلی لذت بخش میشد^_^
This time was when I brought it with me to read during a trip to Key West for my birthday because he wrote it there and it takes place there.
The highlight of reading it this time was reading it in our Key West hotel room on the Sunday that Isaac blew through town.
It is everyday people dealing with the desperation of everyday life, in powerfully frank ways.It was interesting going to Captain Tony's, the original spot for Sloppy Joe's, and sitting in the place that doesn't seemed to have changed much since Hemingway wrote about it and put several of the characters there in the book.Often jarring in its depiction of hard lives in hard times, this may not be one of his critically acclaimed novels, but it has so much power that it continues to deserve to be read.
(مهما يكن من امر فالرجل الوحيد ليست لديه اي فرصه لعينة)**********************هي الرواية الثانية ل هيمنجواي و التي تم تنقيحها اثناء اشتراكه في الحرب الاهلية بأسبانيا ، رواية عن الكساد العظيم كتبت في ذروة نشاط اليسار السياسي بقلم هيمنجواي ... رواية نتوقع منها الكثيرنتوقع منها روح ثورية ، ايجابية ، حالمة ، تحمل بذور الامل لكننا نتفاجئ -مفاجأة سارة ان شئت- ان العمل لا يحمل ابدا بذور التفاؤل البسيط الساذج هذا ، بل جرعات مركزة متتالية من اليأس و الفشل و الرضوخ ... و شخصيات هيمنجواي تقاسي دون ان تشكو
و لكن من الصعب محاولة فعل اي شئ معنا لأننا مهزومون الي حد ان السلوان لنا هو الشراب، و الفخر الوحيد هو قدرتنا علي تحمل الضرب)***********************لكن الايقاع السريع الشيق و اسلوب اللقطات الخاطفة خاصة فصل الحادثة الذى شاهدنا فيه تكثييف مدهش ، الايقاع ذلك يجذبنا من بداية القصة الي نهايتها رغم الغياب المفاجئ -و احيانا غير المبرر- لبطلنا الاصلي "هارى مورجان" و دخولنا في قصص موازية تعترف صاحبة تلك الكلمات انها لم تدرك مغزى بعضها من الاصلاسلوب هيمنجواي هذا الذى سيكمل تطوره في قصصه الاكثر نضجا من تلك التي بين ايدينا ...
Either he was a racist pig- likely; or he was documenting the sad state of racial affairs in the 1930’s when this was written- unlikely- but true, however inadvertedly.
You just put your lips together and blow.”) Rumor has it, the producer of the movie was on a boat one day with Hemingway and informed the author he needs to make more money to support the lifestyle he had become accustomed to, attempting to persuade Hemmingway to make one of his novels into a movie.
Despite it’s flaws, I liked reading TH&HN.
After reading TH&HN, and discovering I think I may like his style- I think I’m gonna give the racist pig another shot.
I'm very aware that Hemingway is a literary genius and writes fabulous novels, but this book had me scratching my head.
Basically I could summarize it in one sentence "A man drives his boat between Florida and Cuba and runs into violent and illegal happenings." And that.
I was really looking forward to reading Hemingway, as I never have before, and he is my Dad's favourite author but I just didn't get it the point of this novel.
It was also very violent, and a lot of people were murdered.
خیلی غمانگیزه اثری از نویسندهای که دوستش داری، برات جذاب نباشه؛خوب نبودن کتاب رو میتونم به دلایل زیادی نسبت بدم که به فرم رمان و شیوهی نگارش اون برمیگرده و نه درونمایهش. چون فکر میکنم هر مضمونی رو میشه به بهترین شکل نوشت اون هم برای کسی مثل همینگوی. حتا فکر کردم شاید این اثر از کارهای اولیهش باشه که ویکیپدیا حرفم رو رد کرد.به نظر من بخش دوم بهترین بخش کتاب بود که میتونست یه داستان کوتاه عالی باشه امابخش آخر چار افول شد و ورود شخصیتهای تازه بی اون که تاثیری روی داستان اصلی بگذارند ذهن خواننده رو
حتا فکر کردم شاید این اثر از کارهای اولیه‌ش باشه که ویکی‌پدیا حرفم رو رد کرد.به نظر من بخش دوم بهترین بخش کتاب بود که می‌تونست یه داستان کوتاه عالی باشه امابخش آخر چار افول شد و ورود شخصیت‌های تازه بی اون که تاثیری روی داستان اصلی بگذارند ذهن خواننده رو درگیر این مسئله می‌کنه که توی بخش آخر کتاب در حالی که چیزی به پایان کار نمونده این شخصیت‌های جدید قراره چی کار کنند!
شخصیت هری مورگان که شخصیت اصلی رمان بود بیشتر از طریق مونولوگ‌های درونی مستقیم و توی ذوق‌زننده معرفی می‌شد و راوی دانای کل هم به شکل ناخوشایندی توی ذهن همه می‌رفت.
من الروايات القليلة التي لم تترك لدى اى انطباع عقب الانتهاء منها ، حيث أن كما جاء في النبذة التعريفية عن الرواية انها تناقش مرحلة الكساد فى فترة الثلاثينات فى مدينة كي وست وما صاحبها من فقر وانحلال نتيجة تردي الاحوال الاقتصادية ولكن اعتقد ان الكاتب لم يستطيع ان يصور تلك الاشياء بشكل جيد وكامل ، فربما حالة واحدة لربان سفينة وأسرته لا تكفى لذلك وكان من الممكن ان يسلط الضوء على حياة المزيد من الاسر حتى تخرج الصورة بشكل أفضل ..
بالاضافة ان الشخصيات المتعددة والتى كانت موجودة بصورة مبعثرة زادت من تشتت افكارى أثناء قراتها وكأن تداخل الاحداث وعدم وضوحها لم يكفى الكاتب ..
This book is rather difficult to review. Granted, it was written in 1937 and speech patterns and certain words were acceptable at that time. But the way this story reads offended me right from the start. I had a hard time with it and I was going to just put it away and not finish. But, the completist that I am, made me finish it. So a word of a caution, the language of this book is rather off putting.
Este não é um livro de heróis nem vilões.
Trata-se de uma história de pessoas mal amadas, necessitadas de atenção e apoio.
Harry Morgan , o protagonista, é o anti herói que todo faz para alimentar sua família, envolvendo-se em contrabando e metendo-se nos mais diverso problemas.
Não é uma personagem encantador.
Entende-se que ama sua mulher Marie, mas não parece ter algum carinho pelas suas filhas.
" Ter e não ter" é um livro que nos leva a Cuba e nos transporta a podridão da alma humana.
É daquelas narrações que não amamos mas a linguagem crua de Hemingway nos prende, e nos envolve até ao final.
The last Hemingway book I read was The Garden of Eden.
This book felt predictable, chaotic, and unrelateable.
I did not like the turn of the structure near the end.
Even though I did not like Harry, I was interested in his fate, though his fate was evident early on.
But he practically disappeared by the end of the book.
By the final third section, I could not get the insidious idea out of my head that Graham Greene could have written the story better, involving the rich and malcontent couple at least.
Once the Greene idea entered my head, the entire book was doomed.
Realy high literally style.With alot of decent descriptions.But the reader would be missed to infer 
Ο Χέμινγουεϊ, με σοσιαλιστικές πεποιθήσεις, πλάθει έναν κόσμο στο βιβλίο του όπως τον βλέπει ο ίδιος στον περίγυρό του, γεμάτο εξαθλιωμένους ανθρώπους με τους έχοντες να πατάνε επί των πτωμάτων τους και να αναλώνονται σε ανούσια ερωτικά παιχνιδάκια και σε επιχειρήσεις που βγάζουν εκατομμύρια· και αυτός ο κόσμος είναι πέρα για πέρα αληθινός, είναι ο κόσμος του χθες και του σήμερα όπου ένας άντρας μόνος του δεν τα βγάζει πέρα.
Ό,τι και να κάνει, ένας άντρας μόνος του δεν έχει καμιά γαμημένη ελπίδα όπως λέει ο Μόργκαν (σ.
We see his wife, Marie, later in the book, and in fact she is the first person character at the end.
Also, later in the book Harry is a minor player, which is surprising given how Hemingway starts the book.Hemingway's language is crude, vulgar, racist.
However, I think that when one reads something that was written eighty years ago, the reader has to take the time and place into context.
Hemingway was writing about a person contemplating suicide.
And even if you do, the story still swerves around, especially later when there is a long drunken bar scene that is somewhat painful to get through.
Audiobook #225

Published in 1937, this book contains three stand alone, but interconnected stories, all revolving around the same character - Harry Morgan.
As a tough guy he dishes out some pain, but is not a bulletproof hero - he is damaged in some way in each story, and reading this book the reader gets the feeling Harry is on a one way road.
For me the first two stories were high octane - quick reads containing speeding boats, guns, contraband and the smuggling of illegal immigrants.
ریتم کوبنده، تسلط کمنظیر بر دیالوگنویسی و روایت؛ حکایتی پرمایه از نداشتن و نتایجش... از خودم ناراحت شدم که چرا زودتر سراغ همینگوی نرفتمترجمه قابل تحمل است اما کمنقص نیست
ریتم کوبنده، تسلط کم‌نظیر بر دیالوگ‌نویسی و روایت؛ حکایتی پرمایه از نداشتن و نتایجش... از خودم ناراحت شدم که چرا زودتر سراغ همینگوی نرفتمترجمه قابل تحمل است اما کم‌نقص نیست
By 1937 he was growing tired of Pauline.
Their marriage was on the rocks and Hemingway resented her money.
He did question the rich and their attitudes somewhat, but his feelings about the rich was really about Pauline.
He thought To Have and Have Not was shit and really didn't care how Hollywood treated this small book.
And Hollywood did treat the book differently.
The Becall and Bogart movie was nothing like the novel Hemingway wrote.
The story is mediocre, my least favorite Hemingway novel.
The ending was expected because of the novel's spectacular opening scene.
