https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411449.Charly
I have a policy of not posting books I'd only rate with one or two stars, but I'll make an exception in this case.
I'd hate for someone outside the Church to read this book and then judge me for it.
Was this a story or an advertisement for the Church?
The main character was so self-involved, chauvenistic and self-righteous it made me want to hurl.
Over and over again the characters did and said things because that's what the author wanted them to do, not because it's what they really would do.
By the middle of the book it was just too much to bear.
Now, I recognize that a romance must, in some way, be predictable -- romances are not really mysterious, you don't have to wonder who the "good guy" is, and we read it because we need to have something pretty and easy to understand; something "feel-good." But there are limits to predictability, and in this case, it was not only ridiculous but actually downright insulting.
The book reads like one giant MormonAd (not to insult MormonAds, which are actually significantly more interesting and entertaining than this book) and was overly preachy.The only good thing I can say about this book is that it was mercifully short.
Second, there were several moments while reading this that I felt like the author was portraying the LDS faith in such a way that members of the church only look at other people as targets for converting them to their faith.
He disgusts me with his shallow views of life.Unfortunately, with all of the teenage girls in the LDS Church that read this book, it is no wonder that there problems in the Utah Mormon culture with self-esteem, only caring about people until you find out that they're LDS (or until they find out that non-Mormons don't want to convert), and other cultural problems.
Like a lot of young LDS girls of the 80's, I went through a Jack Weyland phase, where I had to read everything that he ever wrote.
I was a sappy young 12 year old girl when I read it.
I remember crying my eyes out while I was reading it and then crying some more for weeks afterward everytime I even thought about it.
It probably would have a completely different effect on me if I read now, but I gave it 5 stars for sentimental reasons.I thought that they did a good job on the movie and I think I went through an entire box of tissues while watching it.
Why read a book in which you are told on the first page that the titular character dies unless the book is about other characters dealing with the aftermath of said death? I couldn't get attached to the characters at all because I was waiting for Charly to JUST CROAK ALREADY. Books that make me cry - GOOD. Books that try to tug on heartstrings until you cry because of actual physical pain caused by an overdose of sappy cheesiness - reason enough for book burnings.
You know, when you read a book involving a romance and a cancer victim, you expect something a little sappy - kind of like A Walk to Remember.
Sappy, but really, really sad - the kind of sad that if you have a heart, you cry for hours (well, maybe not hours - but you at least feel a burning behind your eyes).
I know it sounds awful, but if you've read the book, and you've got half a brain, you were considering suicide the whole while.
I loved it SO much...but i also hated it.
I hated it because of the sad ending.
I think Charly is very funny and sam too and the book has a lot of funny reality comidy.
I laughed a lot.
Sam does embarress himself a lot and that made me laugh.
I love this book!
It is very sad to look back on the beginning of the book when you have finished the end.
I love the ferris wheel when they rode it at the end together.
I was incredibily sad when she died on Sams birthday.
yeah that is right. i gave it a 5. this was my favorite favorite favorite book as a kid. i read this when i was 11 and it was one of the very first books that pulled me in and taught me to love reading. it will always hold a special place in my heart.
The book "Charly" by Jack Weyland is a sweet romance novel that enables us to become more grateful for the people we have in our lives today.
It starts as the 22 year old Sam gets asked by his dad to go on a date with a new girl in the neighborhood, Charly.
Jack Weyland makes you feel as if you are in the book too, like an invisible character that nobody knows, and yet I am aware of their very thoughts.
To further expound on the way that I felt so attached to it, Charly was the first book that literally made me cry while reading!
I enjoyed it because it was a cute story filled with love and adventure.Sam, a boring, young man with his life planned out, meets Charly, an adventurous, wild, young woman who takes things as they come.
Sam grows closer to God and learns important life lessons during his times of difficulty.I loved the character of Charly!
Before Charly passes away, Sam breaks down and looses faith, but Charly assures him that it will all be well in the end and God has a plan for them.If you are looking for a easy read, LDS romance, I would recommend this book.There is a sequel to this, "Sam", about Sam's life after Charly dies.
I read this book as well and it was almost as good as "Charly."
*Spoiler*(Plot) Sam is forced to go on a date with his dads boss's daughter Charly.
After that date with Charly he finds shes rich and a little snobby.
Charly didn't care what others thought she'd make up lies and make Sam embarrassed.
Sam went on his mission and soon Charly came back, but she was with another guy.
And it was just Sam and baby Adam.(Character analysis)The character who changes the most is probably Charly.
Be the person that changes them for the better.(Opinion) I enjoyed reading this book.
I love reading the reviews on here after I finish a book.
But I won't complain about the writing either.
And I think to myself, for a science brain living in small town Idaho, this is a pretty well written story.
If Charly had told the story I would have wanted it to be more poetic and thoughtful.
But since it was Sam's story I thought the writing suited him.
Won't bother reading that.
and like he'd really hesitate to share the gospel just to get out of doing the dishes.
I am sorry to say that I saw the movie before reading the book.
But I absolutely loved the movie and when I heard there was a book, I immediately knew I had to read it.
It's only 98 pages, but it seems longer.
As I finished it, I was like "oh I probably cried for the last what, 30 pages?" Yeah, no.
I looked and the point I started bawling was page 89.
But I bawled for a good 5 minutes after the final page.
Basically, this is the most emotionally wrecking book I have ever read (and is better than the movie).
Charly was an exciting warmhearted book about love and kindness.
Sam was not happy about this knowing Charly would be a snobby rich girl.
I loved this book because I am LDS so I was able to connect with a lot of the religion in the book and Sam's perspective.
But one thing I didn't really like was the ending.
I liked how it ended because it was a change of how romance books usually end but I feel it could have had a little more information.
This book was beautifully written and had lots of meaning behind it.
I was 12 years old.
I was attending Grange Middle School and I guess the Chicken Pox didn't catch me as a tot and so I had to suffer from an accute case of it.
Not only that, I had a nasty sore throat.
So I missed school.
One would think "Yeah!
I get to sleep in!" but not really any fun when you are miserable.
Thankfully my mom gave me this book to ready.
It took my mind completely off of my woes and gave me a whole nother reason to cry.
Classic LDS fiction. I first got this book when I was 12 years old. Got it for my birthday (or was it in my stocking at Christmas??) and read it within an hour. It's always been one of my all-time favorite stories. I laugh. I cry. Every single time.My mom couldn't find my old copy, so for my birthday this year she replaced it with a new copy. I read it again within an hour. I laughed. I cried. I love this book, no matter how simple the writing or the plot it.
This book is really good. It's sad near the end. I cried a great deal. But You'll find that it's one of the best books he has ever written. I'm sure you've seen the movie charly. This is the book to it, so if you have seen the movie, you know what happens, but trust me the book is tons better!
I read this story years ago and as remembered I loved it then and still do.
I had to add this one, of course! But I must say the movie is even better! :)
I loved the Utah County humor. Dialogue-terrible, ending-terrible,prose-terrible. This book is only for people that grew up in Utah County in the 1980s.
This book I have read 27 times. It's that good! And yes, after ALL of those times, I cry no, I bawl my eyes out EVERY single time I read it!!
After a few dates and some drama Sam and Charly get married and have a son named Adam.
I also loved that even though there was some drama that they would get through it together.
I think the theme of this book is that you should never judge a person that is different from you.
Because in the book Sam was in a religion that Charly wasn't and because of that Sam didn't really get along with Charly at first until they setted aside their differences.
Every girl I knew at church read this book shortly after it first came out in 1980. One of the better examples of Mormon romance novels, which isn't exactly saying a whole lot.
This book (well, play) is my name sake and I love it. It is touching to see Charly's transformation and good heart throughout the book, the romance is swoon worthy, and the tragedy at the end is heart wrenching but leaves the reader with hope.
Something that really struck me from this book was a lesson Sam learned, beginning when the drunk man asked him if he knew Jesus.
Why did he weep when he knew that Lazarus would come to life in five minutes?
Why did her weep when he knew that, in a few minutes, Mary and Martha would be happier than at any other time?
Sam hadn't thought it possible that his future wife would not be morally clean, but she really was because she had been baptized after those things happened and had followed the commandments after.
personal response 3-5 sentencesplot summary- 5-7 sentencesrecommendations- 3-5 sentences
Charly, an amazingly well written love story written by Jack Weyland.
They both think this will be a one time thing, but they are in for a huge emotional roller coaster.
It made me laugh, cry, scream, every emotion possible came out while reading this book!
I didn’t see anything that I didn’t like about Charly, it was all great to read.
People that love romance stories, I recommend this book to you!
There were lots of things the author pointed out in this book, but one I recognized the most was that when you love someone, don't let them walk out of your life.
Really, really terrible. The writing is awful and doesn't read realistically at all. Sam is chauvinistic, self-righteous, and not attractive at all. There is a lot of randomness in the middle. Then she dies, and you are manipulated into crying. I can't believe I used to like these books. On the plus side, it was so terrible I couldn't stop reading.
One of the only books where I actually enjoyed the movie more. That being said, Jack Weyland is a great romance author. This book was very sappy and unrealistic, but it was definitely the best of its trilogy.
Perhaps the many flaws of the protagonist were meant to be a way of helping others culturally like him to re-examine themselves as he does and change as his dear Charly helps him to do by simply being her "incandescent" self.
