https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32430.The_Bad_Place
Οι ντεντέκτιβ Μπόμπι και Τζούλια Ντακότα αναλαμβάνουν να διαλευκάνουν την υπόθεση ακολουθώντας τις νυχτερινές του εξορμήσεις.Η πλοκή όπως πάντα σε κάθε βιβλίο του Koontz είναι καλοδουλεμένη και κρατά αμείωτο το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη, η δράση είναι κλιμακωτή και οι χαρακτήρες παρόλο που είναι για τα σίδερα (μοναδική εξαίρεση το ζευγαράκι του βιβλίου που είναι απλά λιγότερο τρελοί), είναι απολαυστικοί.Το ερωτικό σκέλος στα βιβλία σου βρε Koontz θέλει λίγο δουλίτσα.
Είναι απολαυστικές δε λέω οι ατάκες σου αλλά βρες μου έναν, ΕΝΑΝ, που έχει πετύχει τον στόχο του έτσι: -ταιριάζουμε καλύτερα από δυο κομμάτια παζλ.
I hate putting down a book once I’ve started it, until I have turned that final page.
But in life sometimes exceptions must be made and this is definitely one of those times.
This book, this story, simply did not connect with me in any way.
I suppose that the concept does indeed have promise, but what ever little bit of interest it was successful in generating within me has wicked out.
The characters are beige, the scenes are beige, the writing is blah, blah, blah, full of cliché, beige and I do not care about any of it.
Listen up critics, I can and have stopped reading this book.
The Bad Place - Dean R Koontz Let me just start by saying that I would actually consider this is 3.5 stars than just a 3! :) Frank pollard awakes at night, in the middle of an alley, with nothing but his confusion and panic. His mind is a complete blank; he can’t remember who he is, doesn’t recall how he got in the alley, and doesn’t know who to turn to for help. He knows nothing but his name. Every time Frank goes to sleep, he wakes up with things he can’t explain – valuables in his pockets, b
After initially considering his story absurd, the Dakotas delve deeper into the enigmatic life of Frank Pollard and begin to uncover an increasingly bizarre and risky world threatened by a mysterious madman known as Candy, who simply thirsts for the blood of animals, humans, and in particular, Frank.There is no denying that Koontz is a fabulous writer with a magnificent, imaginative mind.
It left me kind of like huh?The concept of this book, I think, is a brilliant one, and the blurb reads fabulously.
"Not funny ha ha, funny weird".That is a quote from this book that my friends and I used to repeat constantly in high school.
"The Bad Place" is actually the first Koontz novel I ever read, and it got me hooked - rightfully so.
I still love this book and have re-read it a few times.It only loses one star because there are other Koontz novels I prefer over this one.
It's not one of my all-time favourites, but it's pretty close, and it holds sentimental value.EDIT: I should add that I went back on my original word and gave it 5 stars.
With The Bad Place, Dean Koontz did something he's never done before — gross me out.
Written during what many consider Koontz's peak period (which most tend to agree was from 1983 to 1995 or so), I went into this novel with relatively high expectations and was not let down.
This makes for my tenth or eleventh Koontz read, so I don't claim to be well-versed in his works yet .
There were no lulls in the story, and almost every character was enjoyable to read about.
Despite its few flaws, The Bad Place is an enjoyable read and quite appropriate for the Halloween season.
7,5/10Κυρίως γιατί οι προσδοκίες μου είχαν πιάσει πάτο, καθώς δεν πολυσυμπαθώ τον συγγραφέα και ότι έχω διαβάσει μου φάνηκε από κακό εως αδιάφορο. Αλλά ήταν λίγο διαφορετικό από τα υπόλοιπα. Δεν έλειψαν βέβαια οι απίστευτες ευκολίες στην πλοκή, αλλά πέρασα καλά διαβάζοντάς το.
The Bad Place is an unpredictable, surprising novel with more strengths than weaknesses.
The characters are written well and in depth; the suspense and horror are strong, the drama is high when shown - I even cried at one scene involving Thomas.The middle and end paid off big time, keeping me flipping through the pages.
On bad points, The Bad Place was a little hard to get into because of how outlandish the story was at first.
Heart-stopping action was continuous, pounding itself mercilessly upon the pages, keeping the story going full blast.As always, Koontzs' style of writing is strong and impactual.
The first time I read this book I was in 8th grade, and wasn't exactly brimming with literary experience.
Dean Koontz pulls out all the stops here, piling on his favorite things: Asians (especially Vietnamese boat people), the mentally disabled, a duo of boring protagonists.
As an authentic Asian person (wow) with a mentally disabled brother, I find his writing EXTREMELY annoying.
Dean also can't go a book or two without giving the mentally disabled some kind of super power, which is a pretty shitty consolation prize if you ask me.
This guy gets paid good money for this, people.
This book was a nice change from Koontz usual stuff.
I’d also like for Koontz to further explore the strange worlds that the main character travels to.
That planet made of jewels and bugs certainly deserves another look, or at least some more explanation.The only thing that keeps this book from getting a higher score is the personalities of the characters.
Everyone is so damn two-dimensional, it’s as if the characters go around with a little title floating over their heads: “Evil”, “Good”, “Greedy”, “Saintly”, “Doomed”.
And this one didn't work for me.I couldn't care about any of the characters for much (say like 90%) of the story.
Not liking a character is not the end of the world for me and I can still enjoy a book with unlikeable characters, although it's difficult at times, but not caring about the characters is a deal-breaker.
I probably won't explain this well - I haven't been very eloquent today - but essentially I felt like Koontz's description/characterization of this "special" character was derogatory and old fashioned and out-dated and condescending.
I was thrilled when I got this audio book as a gift even though I had read it during what I called my "Koontz phase." Many of the books had run together in my memory because I read so many in such a short period of time, but this one always stood out as truly scary and one of my favorites.
Koontz has created a wonderfully imaginative, dark story of evil at its finest.
Koontz has given us astounding characters, my favorite being Thomas.
I haven't read a lot of Dean Koontz, but I called this one from the beginning: the good disabled versus the bad disabled!
The good disabled are the ones who accept their places in society!
And the bad disabled ask for too much!
They use their disabilities like superpowers!
In case you don't get how monstrous disabled people can get, let's throw in some incest!
Thy name is Dobby Dobbs.Then there was the whole weird "I like Asian people" plotline.
Just...WHUT.The writing was good but not engrossing, the way some other Koontz stuff has been for me.
Holy Wowzers! Certainly one of Dean Koontz's best. Similar to Cold Fire, but The Bad Place is more bizarre & disturbing. An impressive Cross-Genre novel with Romance, Mystery, Sci-Fi, Horror, Fantasy, Suspense etc. This is the Dean Koontz storytelling that I love.
I probably won't succeed, but I'll try.I've read a lot of Mr. Koontz works.
My late wife was a big fan and over the years we ended up with quite a large collection of both paperbacks and hard covers, but when the Koontz group decide to read "The Bad Place" I discovered I didn't have a copy.My daughter (who has also read a lot of Koontz)said that she thought Jeanie (my wife) hadn't cared for this novel.
I probably shouldn't have reread it.Parts of it are still interesting and creepy, like when you get the backstory about the family of mutants (for lack of better term).
The backstory and the powers were all creepy, but frankly, King would have done it better.That is the pretty much the only good thing I can say.
Asian people, like pretty much EVERY ETHNICITY EVER, have some hardworking folks and some lazy twats.
They are carbon copies of every protagonist that Dean Koontz has ever penned.
He did not fall back on either of these bizarre details in this book, but it's still packed with tired repetitions.
I read this years ago and decided recently to revisit my Koontz days.
What I discovered was so wonderful that I actually remembered the feeling of falling in love with this Author.
The bad place is a book about the human spirit overcoming tragedy to discover that dreams do come true, even if they change for the dreamer.
I loved this Novel as much as i did the first time I read it.I must admit some of my favorite scenes were the way Koontz stepped into the mind of the psychopath, Candy.
I love Koontz.
This book is the best novel I have read that has been written by Dean Koontz to date.The unusual family (the "how-did-it-happen' origins of which form an intriguing and compelling part of the book), the Private Investigators that decide to pledge themselves to the case, and saddest of all, one of the PI partnership's brothers who was born with Down's Syndrome - they all add an extra ingredient which leads to the conclusion of a truly exciting, in the end unpredictable (though hints are laid throughout) story - not to be missed!
It's been a good ten years since I read this one but I have never forgotten it. I would probably not enjoy it so much now as I ten more towards the historical fiction genre but when I read this, I was blown away. This particular Koontz book had a husband/wife team time traveling together. It was very exciting and fast paced. Between this and Cold Fire, I became a Koontz fan.
Did Not FinishThis was picked up on a whim. The blurb caught my interest. The first several chapters were great. But then the story switched to a killer killing a family in their home. No thanks. And upon reading other reviews, it only gets worse.
For me this is one of the most interesting books by Dean Koontz. This because he manages to write an SF book - and I lóve SF - with influences from multiple other genres.
Genre: paranormal suspense thriller.OTHER BOOKS:I noticed that in four Koontz books, a main character has amnesia issues and/or erased memories.
I don’t want to give away plots, so in the following list I’m using the word “memory” to indicate which books had a main character with one of these memory problems.The author loves dogs.
I’ve indicated below which of his books have dogs in the story (that I know about).I’ve reviewed the following Dean Koontz books, unless indicated.
Lightning 1988(not read) Midnight 1989 (dog in supporting role)4 stars.
Dark Rivers of the Heart 1994 (memory) (dog)5 stars.
But instead of using twin brothers with a deeply disturbed childhood, Koontz takes it one huge step further, creating paranormally gifted offspring of a through incest mutated hermaphrodite.The heroes are Bobby and Julie Dakota, a married couple but also partners in a private investigation company.
Frank delivers the most chilling line in the entire book, when he triggers the climactic events by addressing his sisters with a few simple words, but the meaning behind them (that his sisters and their cats cannibalized on their mother) and the effects they will most certainly have (Candy exploding in a rage, making an easy target of himself) make it so memorable.Koontz has reached a new level of writing with “The Bad Place”.
I choose to read 'The Bad Place' because I have known Dean Koontz to be a great author.
I was always recommended this book by a friend, and thought that I would give it a try.At first, I had a little difficulty getting into the book.
Dean Koontz created a monster entirley unique to him, and complety creative as well as intimidating.
Dean Koontz is great at creating this new genre, I think of it as a combination between mystery, pyscological thriller, and science fiction.
I would recommend this book to those interested in the supernatural, or a unique read in general.
I read this book as a teenager.
It was so good that I read it slow, at a neighborhood park at night, underneath a small, dim lantern, and cherished every word.
As Koontz often did in his earlier works, he captures you quickly with intense action, unique circumstances (such as with this novel of a man waking up in an alley not knowing who he is), and leaving the reader wanting to know more.
One of the best characterizations of a Down syndrome man is done in this book.
It leaves you dripping with empathy for him and hoping for the best.Also, the characterization of Julie and Bobby are fun to hang out with, even in the slow parts.
I happened to acquire this book for free, which is just as well because it's spectacularly bad.
I persisted with it in the vain hope it might improve, but no such luck there, unfortunately.
It reminded me of Garth Marenghi's Darkplace - it really is that badly written, preposterous and stupidly gross in a way it doesn't have to be.
Every character is a badly written, two-dimensional predictable cliché and I ended up hating all of them.
I sincerely hope this isn't considered one of his better works.
I'm currently on holiday in Belgium - the book is staying here.
1st Read: December 23, 1995 - December 31, 1996 (*** Rating) January 1, 1996 - January 12, 1996  This would be my third Koontz novel and it was just below par compared to the previous two of his I'd read.
It is very good reading though.
The final ten chapters...my eyes and mind were on auto-pilot it was so damn good!
2nd/Final Read: May 31, 2017 - June 8, 2017 (*** Rating) My review remains for the most part, the same as my previous one.
I'm hoping Dean Koontz has better books out there in his arsenal.
Frank Pollard awakes sprawled facedown on the pavement in an unknown alley, deep in the night. He remembers nothing, except for his name...and soon realizes that someone is after him. This is Koontz that writes like hell. Strong, descriptive passages really made this novel worth the time. If I had to spot a fault it would be the 2D characters; but still it does not bug the reader, and The Bad Place is one of Koontz's very best.
If your not easily disturbed this is a really good book for you. The crap in this book just blew my mind. Probably my favorite of his along side with the Odd series, but I didn't give it the full 5 because of its graphic nature. Its not ridiculously graphic and its not graphic throughout the whole book but just enough to get a really good picture of how jacked up the "bad guy" is. Also its well balanced, the good characters are awesomely good.
In some ways I know what to expect with Dean Koontz.Unfortunately the part I expect is the painful dialogue, the reactionary mutterings, and the downright silliness.What I'm less able to predict is which of his books will be great in spite of the usual Koontzisms, which will be mediocre, and which will be terrible.This one was pretty bad.
My very first Dean Koontz book which I started on a surprise trip to Hawaii for my wife's birthday. Was looking at a book rack at the airport in Pittsburgh, PA and figured I'd give Dean Koontz a shot. Haven't turned back yet! Loved the book, the story, the characters, and the ending. Great read!
