https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123675.The_Psychology_of_Kundalini_Yoga
Unlike the regular series, however, there are no paragraph numbers in this volume--a problem should a revised edition ever be issued.Personally, I, like many of the participants and Jung himself, didn't much comprehend the Tantric side of the discussions, particularly the Sat-cakra-nirupana.
While the editor's introduction was clear enough, indeed quite good as an overview of the appropriation of such works by the community of analytical psychologists, the actual contents of the seminars were more about analytical psychology and Jung than about Tantrism.
This is actually notes of a seminar Jung gave in 1932.
While he does not escape approaching Kundalini Yoga via an attitude of European orientalism, I think credit should be given that he was the first, I think, psychologist to look at Indian traditions for insights into the stages of higher consciousness and human psychology.
It should also be remembered that he is interpreting what little was known at the time of Tantra through the lenses of depth psychology rather than interpreting the symbolism on its own merits.
Nevertheless an interesting read and an important piece of the history of analytical psychology.
His focus was physical and spiritual "so that you may become finally conscious of yourself, then hatred, fear is no more." His understanding of human nature and what we need to do to heal our psychological wounds is, once again, astounding.
You love somebody, you identify with them, and of course you prevail against the objects of your love and repress them by your very self-evident identity.
Those resistances are a most useful and important instinct: you have resistances, scenes, and disappointments so that you may become finally conscious of yourself, and then hatred is no more." Yoga is a practice that he recommends as a psychological discipline to become fully one's self.
C. Jung at his best, comparing east and west, and how much we all have in common; if only we think, and follow our psychical instincts.
This was an amazing read and a great companion to Jung's Red Book (dream diary). His thoughts about chakras, spirituality and what drew him to the East are noteworthy and potent. Highly recommended!
J'ai abandonné ce livre en cours de route, trop ennuyeux à lire malgré tout l'intérêt que je porte au yoga.Le retranscription des conférences n'est pas un format agréable à lire.
This book was a real TRIP
Represented differently than how I'm used to encountering the topic, which made it interesting in a another way than I was expecting.
"You see, it is utterly important that one should be in this world, that one really fulfills one's entelechia, the germ of life which one is.
For you should leave some trace in this world which notifies that you have been here, that something has happened.
If nothing happens of this kind you have not realized yourself; the germ of life has fallen, say, into a thick layer of air that kept it suspended.
But if you touch the reality in which you live, and stay for several decades if you leave your trace, then the impersonal process can begin.
Jung dá a sua visão da kundalini yoga, fazendo paralelos com a psicologia ocidental e as etapas do processo de individuação. Chakra a chakra ele apresenta os paralelos com a psicologia e cada capítulo é uma palestra proferida com perguntas e respostas, o que facilita a leitura deixando-a mais agradável e dinâmica.É um livro para quem já tem algum conhecimento dos temas abordados e interesse em aprofundá-lo utilizando um abordagem diferente e desafiadora.Afinal o caminho para a iluminação deve seguir passos diferentes para culturas diferentes?
Some interesting lectures in which the images, concepts and philosophy of Tantric Yoga and Hinduism are being compared with modern day analytical psychology. I was looking foreward to reading those materials because I had some background knowledge on both subjects.
A good introduction to the intersection of western psychology and eastern philosophy. I wish there was more.
