https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241803-astragal
Anne narrates the whole thing in a style that never seems like it's trying to be either literary or "street", just is, a jumble of detailed, unflinching but never too deliberate impressions and thoughts and memories that keep the story tumbling along in one long breathless monologue, even during the long stretches where little actually happens beyond bones stitching themselves back together.
It's just a book that, somehow, keeps getting lighter even as the things it bears try to weigh it down.
Written by Sarrazin while serving time behind bars this semi-autobiographical novel tells the story of Anne, who after jumping to freedom from prison fractures her ankle and is found by the side of the road by Julian (who also happens to be on the run), they journey together, quickly form a bond, and romance soon follows.
Tragically Albertine Sarrazin died in 1967 aged only 29 due to complications from kidney surgery, and never really got to reach her true potential.
This version of the book includes a brilliant introduction written by Patti Smith, and how it went on to have a big impact on her.
3,5 στα 5.Ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία αλλά δεν κατάφερε να με κερδίσει ολοκληρωτικά, γιαυτό και άργησα αρκετά να τελειώσω το βιβλίο. Ο λόγος της Sarrazin είναι χειμαρρώδης, αναλύοντας η ίδια την ιστορία μιας απόδρασης από τη φυλακή και το χρονικό μιας εκρηκτικής ερωτικής σχέσης δύο περιθωριοποιημένων ανθρώπων. Το βιβλίο είναι ένας "αγώνας" για την ελευθερία, όχι μόνο τη σωματική μέσω της απόδρασης από τη φυλακή, αλλά και την πνευματική που ίσως είναι και πιο ουσιαστική.
3.5 / Δυνατή γλώσσα, ποιητικότητα, παραληρηματικός και ασθματικός λόγος. Μακάρι να είχε εκδοθεί κάποια χρόνια πριν, όταν ήμουν σπουδάστρια.
Ακόμα και ο καταλυτικός έρωτας που φαίνεται να βιώνει, περισσότερο εγκεφαλικός μου μοιάζει.Η ηρωίδα αναλώνει τον εαυτό της και τα νιάτα της κυνηγώντας την ελευθερία - απελευθέρωση της και αν μεν αυτό για τη δεκαετία του '60 ήταν κάτι, για τον αναγνώστη του σήμερα είναι κάτι πολύ χλιαρό.Στο δικό μου μυαλό όλο το βιβλίο μεταφράστηκε ως εξής : ένα κατεστραμένο κακοποιημένο παιδί, με το οποίο κανείς δεν ασχολήθηκε συναισθηματικά, κανένας δεν προσπάθησε να επουλώσει το τραύμα του και το οποίο κατάληξε στο περιθώριο, εκπορνευόμενο και βαυκαλιζόμενο ότι βιώνει έναν καταλυτικό έρωτα, προσπαθώντας να παραμείνει ελεύθερο.
“L'astragalo è un osso del piede situato nel tarso che si articola superiormente con la tibia e il perone, inferiormente col calcagno anteriormente con il navicolare.
Trasmette il peso del corpo sul piede.
In caso di frattura, l'astragalo può essere colpito da necrosi asettica: l'osso non ricevendo più l'adeguato flusso di sangue viene visto, agli occhi di una comune radiografia, come "morto".
Per ristabilizzare la circolazione, può essere tentata la strada dell'ossigenoterapia in camera iperbarica.
As a poor woman, on the run, many of the people she encounters are hostile, but she faces down individuals like the surgeon who treats her ankle but never ‘deigns to notice that, surrounding bone, there is a woman, an uncarvable being who works and thinks’.She is unwilling to compromise her sense of self in any way; in Paris, she begins earning money again, street-walking, and considers sending some of her earnings to Julien, who is in prison at this point.
Η ζωή με το άγχος της τσιμπίδας του νόμου.Τα πάντα λειτουργούν σαν σύμβολα για να τονίσουν αυτή τη δίψα για ελευθερία: ο τοίχος της φυλακής, ο σπασμένος αστράγαλος, το τσιγάρο που θα καπνίσεις ή δεν θα καπνίσεις, το ποτό, το φαγητό, η βόλτα, ο έρωτας, ο χρόνος.
Όμως το μεγαλύτερο σύμβολο είναι η ίδια — και παραμένει και σήμερα, πενήντα χρόνια μετά: μισοπληγωμένη, θα φύγει και, μόνο όταν νιώσει πραγματικά δύναμη και ελευθερία, θα παραιτηθεί από την κατάκτησή της, προσφέροντάς την ως δώρο στον εραστή της.
Ein Buch wie ein Film von François Truffaut. Patti Smith trifft es in ihrem Nachwort zu Albertine Sarrazin genau: "Sie hat einen unverwechselbaren, gehobenen Pokerface-Stil zwischen Poesie und Kriminalroman." Ohne viele Worte zu verlieren, ausgezeichnet.
When I picked up Astragal (1965) by Albertine Sarrazin the cover told me that it is Patti Smith’s favourite novel.
She wrote this novel whilst in jail and died aged 29.
During her jailbreak she physically breaks her ankle bone (or her l’astragale in French, hence the title) so she spends the whole book on the run (or hobbling along anyway).My problem with this novel is that it is so influenced by the nouvelle vague that it almost reads like a parody in some chapters.
And worst of all it’s boring.
Astragal follows Anne, a 19 year old girl who escapes from prison by jumping a wall and ends up badly breaking her ankle as a result.
I didn't particularly enjoy being in Anne's head all the time.
I know she was 19, but that seems a bit old for that.It took me longer to read than I had previously imagined because instead of getting swept away in the story, I kept putting it down.
I'm not going to say I didn't enjoy this book, because certain moments (and particularly the last couple of chapters) did capture me, and I found myself wanting to see how things would end up.
Zaman zaman çevirideki dilin biraz eski olmasından dolayı kopsam da hikayeyi sevdim.
She has a very fresh, immediate voice in this book, a semi-autobiographical look at "Anne" who leaps from a third floor to escape prison, shatters her ankle, is randomly (& luckily) picked up by a minor crook (Julien) before her escape is discovered & wanders between hideouts, waiting, healing, & reverting back to her old life (yet at such a young age) of prostitution & thievery.
There is freedom of spirit here, but also a lot of hiding, looking over her shoulder (not wanting to be caught), & waiting (sometimes too long) for erstwhile savior & lover Julien.
http://diavazontas.blogspot.gr/2016/0...“Ο ουρανός είχε απομακρυνθεί τουλάχιστον δέκα μέτρα»Έτσι ξεκινάει το μυθιστόρημα «Άστράγαλος» της Αλμπερτίν Σαρραζέν, έτσι ξεκινάει η απόδραση της Άνν από την φυλακή.
Αν μπορεί να το κάνει ακόμα, δεν ξέρω, φαντάζομαι πως όχι, είναι πια λίγο παρωχημένη η εικόνα του καταραμένου καλλιτέχνη που πέθανε στα 30.
Η Ανν αποδρά από την φυλακή, έχοντας εκτίσει μόλις τα δύο από τα επτά χρόνια της ποινής για τη ληστεία που διέπραξε με την φίλη και ερωμένη της Ρολάντ.
Έτσι ξεκινά μια ιδιότυπη ελευθερία, με την Ανν αποκλεισμένη σε διάφορα «φιλικά» σπίτια του Ζυλιέν, χωρίς να μπορεί να περπατήσει, να τον περιμένει και να τον ερωτεύεται ολοένα και περισσότερο.
Notamment, il est rare de parler d'amour avec autant de justesse que Sarrazin, sans jamais tomber dans la facilité.Le sujet lui-même est également intéressant puisqu'il s'agit de la cavale d'Anne, le double d'Albertine, qui se casse l'astragale (un os de la cheville) en s'évadant d'une prison pour mineures (l'héroïne a vingt ans -- l'occasion pour moi d'apprendre que la majorité à dix-huit ans en France date de 1974).
Elle rencontre Julien, qui sera l'amour de sa vie.Mais ce qui a manqué à ce roman pour moi pour le rendre vraiment intéressant, spécial, c'est une intrigue.
A surprisingly lyrical and well told narrative, and a compelling individual as well. It's refreshing to hear about a life on the lam told in the first person. It may have been the effect of the translation from the French (which was excellent) but this story rings with a narrative quality - a rhythm - I haven't come across elsewhere. Sarrazin has the knack of making the obvious understated, and bringing out the detail with a dry and self-effacing humor. I think I'll remember this one for some time to come.
Watch my review!
Ik hoorde Bent Van Looy ooit enthousiast over dit boek én de auteur vertellen, dat meisje uit de goot dat zo mooi kon schrijven.
Ook Patti Smith pende haar bewondering neer in het voorwoord: “Dit boek heeft me gemaakt tot wie en wat ik ben”.
Het bovenstaande toont alweer aan dat de appreciatie van een boek altijd subjectief en zeer persoonlijk is.
Maar als lezer verwacht ik daar dan ook iets bij te voelen.
Hier was dit niet het geval, en dat beschouw ik als een duidelijke min.
Het voorwoord van Patti Smith vind ik beter dan het boek.
"Canto a la libertad y a la rebeldía" no lo habría podido definir mejor. Reseña en breve.
Egentligen en svag trea, men vill inte ge mer än två för så besviken! Sån potential men icke.
Autobiographical novel of teenaged French-Algerian girl, her escape from a youth reformatory prison, relationship with a petty criminal who picks her up, and carving out of a temporary life on the Parisian streets.
Eventually Anne's ankle adequately heals, she grows tired of this living arrangement, and she strikes out on her own as a prostitute and thief.Her move for independence in the latter part of the story is undermined by her dependent love on Julian.
Julian swears to end things with this other woman and commit to Anne, but before he can do so her past catches up to her and she is returned to jail.The novel's prose is a winding road, here clever and here needlessly obfuscating.
The face is the author's and, truly, the lure of this book is the story of the women behind it--French-Algerian, abandoned, adopted, imprisoned.
In the opening scene, Anne (Albertine Sarrazin's nickname) escapes from the window of a prison, fracturing the astragalus bone of her ankle when she jumps.
While Anne says she wants to be independent, she isn't never really free from the men who obsess her, save her, buy her.
In reality, such freedom for Sarrazin may be difficult, even impossible, but in a narrative, semi-fictional form, I wanted it for Anne.
I wanted more from her, but maybe I don't have the right to ask.
Albertine Sarrazin had a remarkable life, and i love the look of her, and the Patti Smith introduction to this book is great, but.....
I'm not that crazy about "Astragal." I think it's a so-so novel.
Clearly written by a young person, it does capture the essence of me or us vs the world - but, in the end of the novel, I really don't care about the lead character or the others in the novel.
By no means is it terrible.
But for me, it goes from eyes to brain back to eyes - and I will forget it tomorrow.
I enjoyed this little gem very much. The author's youth comes through so well it feels refreshing and alive notwithstanding the very troubling setting and circumstances in which the protagonist lives. Funny to have read this on the tail of Suspended Sentences a dreamlike sequence describing similar characters in a very different way.
Work people: Please stop recommending me books...especially when they are immediately available from the library. Andy, you too! (Caliban's War is in the queue!) I never really liked the name Ann. Or Anne. (Sorry Mom!) But now I can see how it could be sexy.
Perhaps if I had read this book at the age of 21, I would now be a little more like Patti Smith and a little less like me.
Le récit, bien que linéaire, est une succession d'ellipses narratives que l'on devine, à force, intelligemment égrenées afin de ne laisser voir au lecteur que la part belle de l'histoire.
Dès qu'il est question de dépression, de mal-être, le récit s'efface derrière le non-dit, et la scène suivante apparaît, sur une phrase bien léchée, belle et romantique à souhait.La plume d'Albertine n'en reste pas moins géniale : un petit bonbon acidulé sur son lit de roses épineuses.
Sans ses fantasmes amoureux, Anne et le lecteur seraient morts d'ennuis bien avant la fin de cette cavale.
نمیدانم کدامتان این کتاب را خواندهاید. به هر روی این تنها کتاب نویسندهاش،آلبرتین سارازان است که بسیار معروف و پرفروش همبوده و دست برقضا کتاب بیان هنرمندانهایست از زندگی نویسنده اش. شرح زندگی دختری نوجوان که تن فروشی میکند و زندگی میگذراند و بارها در دام خلاف و خلافکاران و زندان میافتد و ناکهان به قول خودش میفهمد که «پاریس فقط مرد ندارد،کتاب هم دارد» اوقوزک پای شکسته اش را همواره به عنوان نشانهای از روزگار زندگی سختش باخود همراه دارد . قوزکی که در حین فرار از زندان شکست. این کتاب شرح زیست این دخت
نمیدانم کدامتان این کتاب را خوانده‌اید.
به هر روی این تنها کتاب نویسنده‌اش،آلبرتین سارازان است که بسیار معروف و پرفروش هم‌بوده و دست برقضا کتاب بیان هنرمندانه‌ایست از زندگی نویسنده اش.
شرح زندگی دختری نوجوان که تن فروشی میکند و زندگی میگذراند و بارها در دام خلاف و خلافکاران و زندان می‌افتد و ناکهان به قول خودش میفهمد که «پاریس فقط مرد ندارد،کتاب هم دارد» او‌قوزک پای شکسته اش را همواره به عنوان نشانه‌ای از روزگار زندگی سختش باخود همراه دارد .
قوزکی که در حین فرار از زندان شکست.
این کتاب شرح زیست این دختر نوجوان است.
First of all - one of the best introductions to a book I've ever read. such a warm, loving way to start it. and second - it's so easy to just live Anne's world. her words and her speech are so well translated, I could hear her words in my mind as I read and as I didn't. I kept her in my thoughts even when the book was put down. very atmospheric, almost claustrophobic in the beginning - then free and airy. I'm definitely going to talk about this book for years to come.
Postgymnasial, Godard-artad "The guy gets out his Gauloises and gives me a light."-prosa, som tyvärr inte hade något att säga mig (nu). Ångrar att jag inte läste på franska, men ville så gärna ta del av Patti Smiths passionerade förord:"In 1976, as I traveled the world, I carried 'Astragal' in a small metal suitcase [...] and the same black jacket I wore with careless defiance on the cover of 'Horses'. It was a Black Cat paperback edition..."
