https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9282.The_Smoke_Jumper
This story started out promising. A cute romance develops between two likeable characters and then a smokin hot "complication" gets introduced. From there it went all down hill. There needed to be more of everything, more passion, more tension, and more heartache. I found what I was reading to be less than gripping and I always found a reason to do something else other than read it. This story is about a blind man's wife falling in love with his best friend. How can you bore your readers with a
This story is about a blind man's wife falling in love with his best friend.
How can you bore your readers with a plot like that???
Not only was I bored, but the ending was just awful!
I wanted the best friend to get the girl, but how could I wish such a betrayal on a blind man who loved and needed his wife and was so inspirational?
Instead the husband dies and the best friend comes in and takes his place.
I felt like the author wanted me to be happy the husband died.
Part 3: good God.Here is one paragraph (excuse me, sentence) from the book:In the grass and dust yard of the church stood a white cement figure of Jesus with his arms spread in welcome and the boy stopped beside it and would go no farther and Connor photographed him and then photographed the dogs and vultures that came hurtling from the open doors of the church and photographed the soldiers chasing them and yelling and shooting at them but mostly missing.This is ONE SENTENCE.
Mr. Dangling Modifier here just doesn't know how to construct a sentence.This book started off GREAT.
Loved the cover art of the book, and the synopsis. Was a little hesitant because I noticed quite a few readers labeling it romance. I wouldn't label it a romance at all. Yes, there is a love story - two love stories - but there's so much more going on. To me, it's a suspense novel. I loved this book. It's well-written. It takes the reader to many different places: Montana, New York - even to far away Sarajevo and Africa. I enjoyed all the characters. I loved Connor's passion and admired Ed's pe
Loved the cover art of the book, and the synopsis.
Was a little hesitant because I noticed quite a few readers labeling it romance.
I wouldn't label it a romance at all.
Yes, there is a love story - two love stories - but there's so much more going on.
I loved this book.
It takes the reader to many different places: Montana, New York - even to far away Sarajevo and Africa.
I loved Connor's passion and admired Ed's perseverance.
Both men were charming in their way.
I honestly believed Julia loved both men.
This book is a must read.
Three friends are connected by one summer’s events on a Montana mountain.
Ed Tully and Connor Ford are smoke jumpers who both love the same woman.
When the draught-stricken forest is hit by lightning, the smoke jumpers have to come to the rescue.You know where this is headed, don’t you?
People behave stupidly and take unnecessary risks … not just with their own lives but with children’s lives.
And of course, true love will win out.
Actually I was pretty interested in the beginning and wish that Evans had found a way to explore the smoke jumpers, and the at-risk kids.
I lovelovelovelove this book. I've read all of Nicholas Evan's books (The Horse Whisperer, The Divide and The Loop) and this is by far my favorite. Nicholas Evans writes in a way that is clean and does not interfere with the story. This particular story has it all - action, adventure, unrequited love - and the characters are very relatable. It makes me want to go to Montana very badly (and almost makes me want to become a firefighter...)!

I read a lot of books and have a lot of favorites.
When someone asks me "What's your favorite book?" It takes a while for me to think of one or I just say the one I recent read.
But now after 19 years I have found my all time book!
"The Smoke Jumper" is my true all time favorite book.
I love books that has romance and this book has the heartwarming, tear jerking love story I have ever read.
Evans did an amazing job and I want to thank him for writing this book!
I <3 "Smoke Jumper"
Knjiga je je zaista divna, ljubavna, zivotna, tragicna ali sa srecnim zavrsetkom. Ali... ovo nije prva knjiga u kojoj je pisac 'morao' da se dotakne teme rata u Bosni i 'krvolocnih' Srba - pa molicu lepo zar su u tom ratu samo Srbi bili krivi!!! Pa i dogadjanja u Ruandi i Ugandi kao da su samo prenesena iz nekih novinskih izvestaja, a ima slicnih prica i u jos nekim knjigama koje sam citala. Za mene, samo su pozari bili nesto novo sto do sada nisam procitala vec negde. I pored ovih zamerki, knjiga ipak zasluzuje svih 5 zvezdica!
Diana had read The Horse Whisperer and bought Nicholas Evans' succeeding two books on a bookstore excursion that feels like eons ago.
I haven't read The Horse Whisperer, but Redford must have got it right because the heroism and stalwartness of his male characters and the hardy steel of his females are on display just as much here as in the film.
The greatest suspense often comes from whether or not characters are going to do the right thing, and what lifts Evans' romance above the pornographic swill commonly categorized as such is that they often do, although there are prices to pay and sacrifices to make that may cost them their lives.
Julia meets Ed first and is in relationship with him when she meets his best friend Connor and has a "love at first sight" experience.
Connor reciprocates this feeling, but both he and Julia manage not to pursue a love that would hurt Ed. The summer of life-altering events finds the three in Montana where Ed and Connor are smoke jumpers, something that they've been doing for several years together.
A devastating fire forces choices that seem to doom any satisfaction of feelings for Julia and Connor.
Connor finds a life for himself courting danger on a daily basis.
I LOVED this book!
The lifestyle, the love, the tragedy, the suspense...EVERYTHING!
I saw someone else who reviewed this book say that it made them want to visit Montana and I am going to second that!
In fact, can I move to Montana instead of visit?
Just the vision of men in cowboy hats, blue jeans, boots, and semi-dirty from a hard day's work out in the forest...so enticing!
I was able to vision every scenes with such detail it was incredible!
Anyways, I was very sad when I finished this book at like 1:30am today.
This book has everything I love in a story: slightly dangerous occupations (my writing regularly features EMS and military characters).
War and chaos.
A handsome, brooding male character.
A love triangle ...
and a happy ending (I'm a sucker for those).
Evans did a masterful job of using traumatic events and showing how the characters develop because of (or in spite of) them.
The 'voice' of each was authentic and even though there were four points of view (telling their stories) I didn't have any moments of confusion like I have in other books.
Introduced me to the term Smoke Jumpers ( it's pretty cool look it up ) other than that nothing new here. Same ole ole. Just the rehashing of his previous novels.
Absolute drivel.
Smoke Jumpers are folks who jump into the middle of forest fires with the means and intentions of putting them out, or at least slowing down their path.
Connor Ford and Ed Tully are two such smoke jumpers and are the main characters, along with Julia Bishop, the woman who marries Ed but is loved by both of them.
A long convoluted story which is sometimes interesting and sometimes leaves the reader wondering where the plot is going.
In reality the reader knows where the plot is eventually heading but it takes quite awhile to get there!
I like this author's books which combine romance and adventure in thrilling tales. This book tells the story of a man in a dangerous profession and also tells of the romance looking for while he tries to do a hard job.
Oh and despite her already basically cheating on Ed with her every waking thought of Connor, we conveniently avoid any actual cheating because Ed dies at a super young age (And the cause of death does even get explained, he just dies, how convenient).Then Julia, as the super great responsible mom she is, take her and Connors daughter with her to Afrika, straight into a war zone, just because Connor was there once, many years ago, just hoping he will return so she can finally get some man meat after years of stupidly avoiding her feelings.
Nicholas Evans is a first rate story teller who has infused every element available to a writer into the Smoke Jumper and turned a mere spark of an idea into fireworks -- he has an uncanny ability to get inside the very essence of what makes his characters tick and fleshes each one into a real & alive being, real in one's own mind anyway.
Is there a tad bit of fictional magic thrown into the mix?
Sometimes when you pick up a book you have an idea of where the story is going.
I at least had an idea of where this one was going, but had no idea the struggles that would occur in the story to get there, nor did I have the story completely resolved.I was first introduced to Nicholas Evans in a book store on a summer vacation.
Till at last I resolved myself to purchase The Horse Whisper.
What an astounding book and author.
I purchased The Smoke Jumper ages ago and just never got around to reading it.
I never really became engrossed in this, or really cared about the characters as much as I hoped I would.
My first book by this author.
My husband enjoyed one of his books and so I had high hopes for a great story.
I loved The Horse Whisperer and thought the author of the book that inspired it would be more in tune with emotional drama.
Again, since a lot of folks have enjoyed this author, I'm sure it was me and not the book.....too many books waiting to be read that I am anxious to get to, so maybe i was a little less forgiving of this one.
Near the end of the book, I had the feeling that the rest of the book was somewhere beside me.....but when I looked, it wasn't really there.
Truly, I checked to be certain that I had not inadvertently purchased an abridgement.
Yes, the story fragments that are told show Evans at his best.
Yes, the story is gripping.
In fact, it is indeed because it is gripping that the fairytale ending is a bit of a letdown.
What is the meaning of the burning elk's antlers and eyes?
A beautiful story unfulfilled.
The parts of the story that exist are very well written.
I read this book when it was first published and I've just finished reading it again.
It's a great book!The story of two men, best friends from completely different backgrounds with opposite personalities who are Smoke Jumpers.
The story begins in Montana and the introduction of a young woman.
This is where the story of true friendship and honor really begin and the story enfolds you.
You feel as though you know these people and the travels take you around the world to the most horrific and beautiful moments one can experience.
Love, love, love this book.
Would recommend to all!
In Nicholas Evans's The Smoke Jumper, he wrote such an emotional and heart-warming eco-thriller than ever before.
For Connor Ford, he was a smoke jumper who saved Julia Bishop's life.
He fell in love with her, when she was with fellow smoke jumper, Ed Tully, his best friend.
That have created an awkward love triangle, since she loved both of them, until she had to choose between the two of them after a fiery tragedy happened in Montana.
After the fire, he chose a life that didn't bring him happiness, until he was reunited with Julia with a new chance to be with her in the end.
It was not a good read, I only persevered because I don't like abandoning books half way through. From the very first pages I suspected how might it end, and, as I have now found out, I was spot on. That's not what I want from a book, I want to be surprised, made to think, shocked. I don't want to go through a book mentally ticking off the events that I knew would happen. Waste of time, good job I didn't spend any money on it!
Het eerste en tweede deel zijn heerlijk om te lezen, maar het laatste deel is deels cliché en voorspelbaar. Jammer, maar alsnog een fijn boek om te lezen!Oh en vergeet niet de belachelijk lange zinnen waarbij je de draad al halverwege kwijtraakt en waardoor je terug moet lezen en daarmee de vaart uit je boek haalt en zorgt voor dit soort narigheid. ;)
An enjoyable story that includes drama, romance, suspense, and much more. The main characters are well-developed and seem like real people. Nicholas Evans does a masterful job of presenting a story that spans many years without leaving the reader feel lost in the story.
I loved the first half of this book. The second half of the book, while connected, should have been a totally separate book by it's self.
The minor characters are only there to be a supporting cast but they are necessary to create a believable world in which the smoke jumpers exist.
He weaves the story back and forth and meanwhile the love triangle is constantly dangled in front of us, so that the romantics among us are wondering how it will resolve.I can't think of a single thing I didn't like about the book so I am going to make sure I get a copy of the Horse Whisperer to read.
Started out slow " love the actual fire jumpers. The fact that Julia was caught between two loves, but stayed faithful to her husband showed what a an amazing woman she was. The stories in Africa were scary yet kept you from putting the book down even for a minute. Loved the ending.
One of my favorite books read so far. Nicholas Evans is able to capture every detail of the 10 year adventure of these characters, but at the same time not unnecessarily droning on or dissolving my interest. Absolutely "sizzling" and inspiring story that I found myself becoming very emotionally and physically attached to.
