https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1290494.Sight_Unseen
The friends are in the main very skeptical, although they can't help be at least a little edgy after they realize the medium seems to have witnessed a murder, calling out various clues during the seance and not remembering any of it afterwards.
Later that night, another member of the Club, Horace's friend Dr. Sperry, calls and asks Horace to accompany him to a neighbors' home, in which the husband has apparently committed suicide.
The book details the unofficial, clandestine investigation the two, then three, and eventually all members of the Neighborhood Club conduct after realizing the medium may have foreseen a murder.
Table tapping.An interesting book that Pursues the supernatural. A mysterious death and a séance to discover who committed the deadly deed.
second read of this author.....not overly thrilled.
Can a woman get inside a man's head?As a reader, I'm fascinated with the difference that point of view makes.
Did Rinehart think that men would be more likely to be interested in "spiritualism" (as it was then known) or was she hinting that they are more credulous and easier to fool than women?In the early 1900's psychology and "psycho-analysis" had become popular subjects and psychic phenomenon was widely believed to be part of the new, scientific view of the human brain and how it works.
It is billed as a ghost story or horror story, but what I think it really is, is a farce with a murder mystery, a seance and a bit of the supernatural thrown in, and some very funny social drama to envelop everything.
I know it sounds as if I should be calling it a social comedy, but it is not comedy--it just has some people with utterly no sense of humor who end up doing hilarious things in the course of the investigation of the murder and the horror.
I just loved this book.
Anyone who is researching spiritualism (as I am) would appreciate this little spooky novella. It does have a great sense of humor employed throughout and I liked it, though again, the ending seemed to unravel quickly to it's conclusion with a 'poof' more than a 'bang'.
- Od tada znam da postoji ludilo hrabrosti rođene iz užasa. Ništa nije moglo biti nepodnošljivije nego tamo sjediti i čekati. To je isto ludilo koje je ljude izvlačilo iz rovova mina i gotovo sigurne smrti, radije nego da sjede i čekaju što bi moglo doći.
Part mystery, part ghost story. Or is it? Maniacal laugh, maniacal laugh. (Yes, I did watch the Muppets yesterday.) Genuinely spooky bits and I finished it in one sitting without intending to. So, there's that.
Probably not the best of the old romance writers, but I like her books.
Looks to be a yummy mystery with a paranormal twist. MRR is a real fave.
A fun and simple whodunnit with a good sense of humour and an endearingly less than macho "detective".
Interesting and odd mystery. More of a short story format.
Not worth searching for. Time that I could have spent reading something that I enjoyed.
read some time in 1988
far-fetched and totally dissatisfying -- compared with her other books, a disappointment! Don't waste your time!
