https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99245.Nightfall
On the one hand it anticipates things like the debates about climate change and dark matter that wouldn’t emerge more articulately for decades.
The story then mixes the anticipatory and the completed into a sort of a theory of Mind and explores the delicate dependency of Mind upon expectations as well as memory - specifically the dependency on light among a species unfamiliar with darkness.
As one of Asimov’s characters says, “Your brain wasn’t built for the conception [of total darkness] any more than it was built for the conception of infinity or of eternity.
The novel, in and of itself, is a very good read.A view of Nightfall (solar eclipse) on Kalgash.The main original storyline is quite straightforward; set on a planet called Kalgash which has six suns, with normally up to four appearing in the sky at any one time (five rarely, all six never).
TwilightThis is basically the prequel to the original short story, it takes place about one month prior to the Nightfall event.
Their icy monstrous light was like a million great gongs going off at once.”Notes* There's an audiobook of the short story on Youtube!† Degree of collaboration between Asimov and Silverberg on Nightfall
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Sextuple star system: "Nightfall" by Is
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1995 میلادیعنوان: شبانگاه؛ نویسنده: آیزاک آسیموف؛ رابرت سیلوربرگ؛ مترجم: حسن اصغری؛ تهران، شقایق، 1374؛ در 326 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 ماین داستان در سیاره ای به نام کالگاش که دارای شش خورشید است رخ میدهد، هزاران سال از استقرار انسان در این سیاره میگذرد و نسلهای تازه چنین میپندارند که به غیر از سیاره ی آنها و شش خورشبد آن سیاره، سیاره ی دیگری وجود ندارد، هماره دست کم دو خورشید در آسمان هستند و ...
ا. شربیانی

The end is an absolutely masterful span of writing, ever-increasing suspense and dark madness as a mob descends, cut off so abruptly, it's almost certainly the reason the story is so popular.And then Silverberg brings us to the new world, and spends a hundred pages detailing the hopelessness of the post-apocalyptic world and the self-pity the protagonists wallow in.
Still, the only truly jarring parts were the long flashbacks stitched into the beginning of the short.Although the plot has a definite "fluff" feel, the masterful writing and ideas of Asimov keep it from becoming stale.
The original short story Nightfall is brilliant and deserves five stars. This novel, based on that short story, only gets 2 stars. It was bloated and forgettable. Don't bother with it unless you're an Asimov completist. If you've never read the short story, you need to go find it. It's in a lot of SF collections and should be readily available.
Nightfall isn't that bad.
At points I was close to giving Nightfall three stars.
The bad delivery of the ending, and the overall pulpiness of the story, are what drop the rating.The story is fun, but has a full time job holding itself together just on the surface level.
This leaves no room for any depth.The final resolution of the story is not that bad in itself, but the way it is told is anti-climactic.
If anything, the book should have been longer, to let the ending play out in a more dramatic fashion.
been a long time, esse.i see you, central park east secondary school library reading nook circa 1991.i see you.
An amazing short story, rewritten as a novel by popular demand. Or maybe just Asimov's determination to keep 'improving' perfectly good work. Sadly, this is exactly the same short story as the original Nightfall, just with more words to slow it down a bit and the 'assistance' of another author who isn't Asimov anyway...
Ciencia ficción con trasfondo filosófico: ¿Qué sucedería si de repente, la civilización presencia un evento inexplicable que la llena de terror?
The people of Kalgash, although aliens, are very human in nature, so I liked the approach of a sci-fi story to address the issue of how we humans respond to change, especially abrupt change in daily things whose stability we take for granted.Kalgashians live in a world where darkness is unnatural, where there is always light, the light of many suns.
As a side note to this review, I thought it throws some light upon human civilization’s religious foundation how, after witnessing Nightfall reduce the Kalgashian civilization to widespread insanity, the scientists accept that reinforcing religion is the best hope to getting the now primitive people back under control.
I was only eight, someone who mindlessly still watched endless reruns of the "Brady Bunch" and "Three's Company" on TV, however I also remember at the time that, perhaps, oh by the 1000th episode of "Three's Company" that I made another critical realization, that every episode of the show is always the same, always following the same formula of one of the roommates getting into trouble over a misunderstanding.I don't know if it was "Three's Company" or Isaac Asimov that was the key into giving my young self the first awareness of being able to critically judge entertainment, instead of mindlessly consuming it.
Много увлекателна история за планета, която е огряна денонощно от няколко слънца и на която веднъж на 2000 години се случва катаклизъм (слънчевата светлина изчезва и се появяват Звездите), което кара всички жители буквално да полудеят.Чудесно описан е сблъсъкът на фанатизма и лудостта с науката.Книгата е разширение на разказа "Падането на нощта", който си струва да се прочете преди това.
What a creative story of science fiction! The planet, Lagash, with 6 suns and constant daylight, is plunged into darkness. Scientists have determined this happens every 2049 years and thus due to the near total madness of its inhabitants, scientists think society for the most part is obliterated and has to begin again. No one is prepared for what is to come with true nightfall. A classic much talked of short story.
Doubts and nightmare of an atheist.The original short story is better than the novel written by R. Silverberg.
An interesting theory here, but I preferred the short story version which actually got to the point a little quicker.
It turns out that this happens like clockwork every 2000 years, with most of society literally burning to the ground each time, and subsequent generations oblivious to the event.
About the possibility of an unknown red dwarf star named “Nemesis” (another Asimov book about a sun just like the following theory describes) that , in a double system with our own, throws off our sun’s gravitational pull on its outer asteroids every 26 million years and causes some of them to strike the planets.
Brings excellent ideas of how a different society would be in a different solar system, and the psychology of beings living on a world where night never comes.
Asimov gradually introduces his ideas to us through his character's scientific processes.
He also writes the end of a world very well, how society may very well break apart when the sanity of humanity is reduced to nil.
Most interesting of all is the last act, of the world after the end.
The ideas are where it shines, and there are a surprising amount of set pieces in the story interspersed with novel astronomical and psychological concepts.
I just read the novella written by Isaac Asimov (not the full length novel which expanded this story later).
I am not so interested in reading a book which was written by another author based on this story or maybe I will read it someday.
But reading this story made me realize why Asimov is my favorite sci-fi author.
No other author can describe something so brilliantly.
One fine day, an eclipse occurs and it is dark on the planet.
Astronomers predict this happening and everyone is dreading the darkness.
You should read this story to know more.
Es una historia que funciona mejor como relato que como libro. La verdad es que aunque no deja de ser una premisa interesante, Silverberg no consigue aportar nada nuevo a la historia creada por Asimov.
This is a review of the short story alone, since I can't seem to find a page dedicated to it.Imagine living in a world of perpetual daylight, thanks to the six suns surrounding your planet.
Now imagine each sun setting, leaving only a single one in the sky, and at such a distance, it can be blocked by an almost invisible planet - creating what is essentially a world-wide eclipse that will plunge civilization into darkness for one whole night.
It's man-made fire, slowly encroaching upon the cities to bring light back to the world that seems eternally plunged in the dreaded darkness.
On the latest reading I have to say I enjoyed the book, the original concept is still intruiging, but the aftermath, the world laid waste by madness, just did not ring as true as the build up to it.I still have problems with the speed that the suns changed configuration in their sky and the seeming lack of civilisation on the opposite side of the planet, whether by lack of land mass or slow expansion is never made clear, where the effects would have been less severe.
I consider the original 1941 story to be one of the best, but this almost makes it seem ridiculous.
Worse, by that time the story's been so diluted that something I thought was one key aspect of the original is completely lost.Okay, that was my rant and I know it sounds like I hated this, but I didn't.
I didn't like it anywhere near as much as the original, but it was still an entertaining read with a few eyerolls.
Now I'll go think about what the folks in Shirley Jackson's "The Lottery" were doing before and after the events in her story.
***Upgraded this book to an all time love. I keep rereading it and love it every time. Originally read 10/1994. Reread every year or so since then***I love this kind of book. It introduces us to a world and characters before the disaster, follows them through it, and shows us the aftermath. It's very character-driven. It's surprising to read a book with so many characters that are being followed, and yet have them all fleshed out and three-dimensional so that you can actually care about them.

This was a good short story, but there's not enough to it to make a novel. Plus the premise becomes obviously inane when stretched out beyond the usual SF story "what if..."
Aaron King1/29/12Per. 6Book Review: Nightfall by Isaac Asimov  Reading has always been a seminal part of the human experience. It keeps the mind sharp and open to new ideas. Reading also maintains one’s vocabulary. If one never reads, he or she is more susceptible to the same “rusting” that an adolescent’s brain suffers over a long summer. On the other end of the literary spectrum, reading also helps the writers. Authors can use their writing to express emotions and ideas and, in a sense, “trans
Aaron King1/29/12Per. 6Book Review: Nightfall by Isaac Asimov 	Reading has always been a seminal part of the human experience.
Originally a short story written in 1941, Nightfall tells the story of a fictional planet Kalgash, one who is always accustomed to light, and what happens to it when that light is suddenly taken away from those who live on Kalgash.
Even if you are not interested in science fiction novels, you could surely read this novel from a philosophical, historical, or psychological viewpoint which makes it a highly commendable novel.
6 stars actually. Pun intended.
Sort of.Isaac Asimov is the master of sci-fi short stories.
Many sci-fi books have to present an idea or explanation for some technology of phenomenon that is different than in our world, and unfortunately, they often do it in a pretty clumsy way.
However, once every 2,000 years, a planet eclipses the single sun that happens to be in the sky, turning the world dark.
The stories follows a group of astronomers that predict that the darkness will turn people mad, and cause them to destroy society.As a short story, it works perfectly.
