https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28876.His_Majesty_s_Dragon
Of course, it'd be a book about dragons fighting for the British army against the encroaching Napoleonic forces to get to me to realize: DRAGONS ARE FUCKING COOL.Especially dragons with awesome Han Solo type female riders and plucky young girls manning the gunnery and uptight, strong silent type men of good standing learning to fight dirty.
I love this shit, guys.I don't know, I'll probably turn into a furry soon, but until then I'll be curled up under my comforter, the next book tucked under my pillow as I periodically wake myself in the middle of the night by shouting "FLY, BITCHES, FLY."Sorry Han Yee.
Buddy read with my wonderful friend, Ashley *Hufflepuff Kitten* =)****I reckon' I'm going to be spoilery!****Once again I'm going to say, "Why did it take me so long to read this?" I love finding these little gems that I have had around FOREVER!
And I love Laurence and his love for Temeraire, he really knew how to take care of his dragon!
For the love of all that's holy, I want a talking dragon!
Anyway, most of the book is about training Laurence and Temeraire with the other dragons and captains but it was so much fun.
I mean talking dragons, how could you not love it.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2xJIt5CReviewed by: Rabid ReadsThis isn't my first Novik read. In fact, the whole reason I finally got on with reading HIS MAJESTY'S DRAGON is b/c I read and absolutely adored  Uprooted . But UPROOTED isn't being released until May, so this is the first Novik review I've posted.Same and not the same, people. Same and not the same.Meet Will Laurence:Laurence is a Captain in the British Navy. He is a perfect gentlemen. He is ostentatiously dull. And whil
in my head, every time Laurence is on the page--and that's pretty much all the time--all I can think is: Why on earth would you write a Norrington-like character, when you could write a 
Especially, when the Norrington-type character has a DRAGON?
I couldn’t completely enjoy his character, b/c Novik states early on that Chinese dragons are bred for intelligence, and after establishing that fact, uses him to spout insightful and ahead-of-his-time political ideals.
If you like novels of manners, the Napoleonic Wars, and dragons, then by all means, read this book.
What's more, Novik makes the battles work - they're clearly planned out and make sense in a historical context.The main characters are also unusually engaging - Laurence, as a former naval captain who accidentally stumbles upon a dragon egg, is plunged into a branch of the military completely unlike the one in which he's served, and his confusion and stiffness are only to be expected.
Napoleon doesn't even make an appearance during the first book - it's just the British Aerial Corps versus the French Armee de l'Air. It's a lovely change; as the battles grow steadily more climactic, one gets the feeling that they're in a war against other dragon-crews just like theirs, not fighting some unseen maniac.Like I said, His Majesty's Dragon isn't perfect.
4.5 stars! This book is so utterly delightful in every way. I can't even count how many times it made me smile or laugh, or how it tugged at my heartstrings. The bond between Laurence and Temeraire is incomparable. I cannot wait to continue on with this series!
I'll have you know I do have a heart (sometimes) and actually enjoy feeling all warm and fuzzy (occasionally).
Mostly because this book reminded me of Pete's Dragon ← I think I just lost half of the people reading this review.
Novik dedicates a large chunk of the book to the training of Laurence and Temeraire in the Dragon Corps.
Yes, His Majesty's Dragon is SO AWESOME that it made me want to read a Freaking YA Book.
His Majesty's Dragon might not make you feel all warm and fuzzy inside like it did me but it will definitely make you forget about the outside world for a while.
The twist here is that Britain and France each have an air force made up of huge, intelligent dragons and their human riders.
The dragons are so large that they have an entire crew in addition to their main rider; basically, they're like smart, talking (and sometimes smart-talking) naval ships flying around in the air.
So when the dragon - a breed no one in England has ever seen before - hatches, rejects the young crewman chosen for him, and selects Captain Laurence instead, he's initially very resentful of the forced career change but resigned to his fate.
They’d say, “it’s an alternate military history, but with dragons.” I’m sure that description is completely accurate for the series as a whole, but had someone mentioned even briefly that His Majesty’s Dragon was less about alt-history as a focus (even though that was an essential setting component) and more about the forming bond between a man and his dragon, I’d have been on board the Temeraire ship years ago.
Because of the aforementioned expectations for the series, I’m certain some ventured in looking for battle sequences, military strategy, and loads of historical references, but were bored with their lack (which is an irony considering my boredom might have stemmed from those things being present if I’d read it 10 years ago).
Then eventually, through Artificial Selection, humans started breeding between different types of dragons to give certain attributes to the next generation, such as fire, acid, intelligence, etc.
I can see how these characters can annoy, and tire some people, because they have the best attributes of a human and dragon, and you wonder what is their flaw.
The other characters had flaws, some where evil, and dragons had their own personalities and qualities that gave a nice mixture to the overall story.His Majesty's Dragon was a light read, and easy to follow.
His Majesty's Dragon  overall is a cute, unique book that was enjoyable.
I'm amazed at how many people enjoyed this book.
The premise is fascinating and extremely creative.
Otherwise, the characters are bland, there is minuscule character development to speak of, and THERE ARE NO REAL CONFLICTS.
Every conflict is conveniently tied up with no trade offs.
By far, the most amusing portion of the book is the conversations between Laurence (the protagonist) and Temeraire (the dragon)-amusing to the sheer ridiculousness of its romantic triteness.
Temeraire may have intelligence that surpasses Nobel Prize winners, but he has the emotional quotient of a peanut.Read this book only if you want pure, saccharine fluff.
For one thing, I'm a physicist and while I'm willing to suspend disbelief up to a certain point, the image of dragons capable of carrying anywhere from tens to hundreds of humans at a time (plus weapons and armor!) for distances that again range from tens to hundreds of miles in a day just does not compute.
Her dragons carry loads like 747 airliners carry loads -- to carry the load described in the last book of this series, where Temeraire helps ferry people over a hundred at a time from a fort out to a boat, well -- imagine hanging 100 people from an elephant.
It is a really interesting concept and the writing is almost as good as Uprooted.Laurence has been a navy man and ship captain most of his life but when some unexpected loot from a French ship ends up being a dragon egg he is cast into role of rider to a new hatchling dragon and the life he thought he would have is now over.I was entertained by learning what it takes to raise a dragon and see how they are incorporated into society and warfare.
As there are many great reviews for this already that really pinpoint the good and the bad of this book, I shall allow myself a lazy review.Six inch punch by Bruce Lee:Six word review by me:Here be dragons. Read it now.
And after Laurence and Temeraire move to the training grounds in Scotland, the reader gets to meet many more dragons and trainers, who all make this story much more engaging and delightful.
As I said earlier the Napoleonic Wars provide the backdrop to this story, so a large part of the book is dedicated to talking about battle-strategies and the technical aspects of aerial training dragons.
;) Because no matter the writing-style or the technical battle-plans: the relationship between Laurence and Temeraire's is easily the best part of this book.
A very engaging book, I read it in a few hours on a very cold Sunday afternoon & evening.
Told from the POV of a British sea captain, but the twist is that dragons are a part of the war effort between the two.
Our captain/hero gets caught up in that part of the war.
Characterization is very good as is the portrayal of British society & military.
The book stands on its own, but after reading it, I want to get the other books books in the series (5 total, at this time).
pleasantly formal, yet still disposed to the occasionally thrilling episode of draconian escandalo. stately, but lush; a fun romp into every child's fantasy: having a fearsome flying lizard for a best friend.ate this badboy up like it was a bonbon.
It's not that the other dragons are bad dragons, but they're just not THE BEST DRAGON IN THE WORLD like Dragon Mary Sue is, and Dragon Mary Sue is a little bit sad at first because he can't breathe fire or acid like other dragons can, and maybe that means he's not the very bestest dragon in all the world, but that's OKAY, because in the end, do you know what happens?
Everyone already knew Captain Mary Sue and Dragon Mary Sue were so awesome, but now they know it even more!
Could the BEST DRAGON IN THE WORLD get even MORE BESTEST?!?!I'll never know.
This is easily one of the best "alternate history" adventure books I've read.It's amazing how well Naomi Novik has integrated dragons into the arsenals of the various nations during the Napoleonic wars.
As there have been plenty of works already written about that time period, including the well-known Aubrey-Maturin series by Patrick O'Brian, it's nice to have a fresh take on these familiar battles and characters (Trafalgar, Napoleon, Nelson, etc).
Aside from that, though, is the fact that they are also creatures who think and feel, and don’t always agree with the rules and laws of the military they “serve”.Our protagonist, Captain William Laurence, is very much a man of his time.
God I love Temeraire so much <3----------Buddy read with the BBB gang!(Bumped up to a full 4 stars rather than the original 3.5 because I remember it so fondly)Temeraire instantly brings Toothless to mindSeriously, if Toothless could talk, he would be Temeraire.
I also really liked Hollin.At this point I'm not quite sure if I'll continue with the series; this could have used some trimming in places, but I do like the characters (view spoiler)[and I would love to see Hollin with his own dragon (hide spoiler)].
Thanks for the buddy read even if I was slow AF, BBB peeps!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
His charming personality and his gentleness slowly turn Lawrence’s resentment toward him into a genuine affection that further develops into a bond so strong that neither would be happy without the other.Together, Lawrence and Temeraire join the Aerial Corps and learn how to fly alongside other dragons and riders in aerial battles to repel the French invasion.The dragons are brilliant!
Lawrence is by far my favourite with his old-school ways and manners: a gentleman through and through!The descriptions of different breeds and their characteristics are exceptional, the author making it very clear how every type of dragon looks so you can even picture them while reading.
I am a little surprised by how much I liked this. The idea of the Napoleonic Wars with dragons seemed like something that could be either very good or very bad, and I've read enough overwrought fantasy the last little while (as well as some very good fantasy) that I was a little wary. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Just when you thought Dragons had done it all - along comes Naomi's book. Dragons fighting in the Napoleonic Wars - I was reluctant to read it at first, thinking it would be heavy on the military aspect. But when it was nominated for a Compton Crook, I picked it up and was surprised. The war is a part of the setting and plot, but the characters are the stars of the show. Both Lawrence and his dragon.PS: Naomi won the Compton Crook.
Exactamente no sé qué decir, aunque me gustó y sorprendió mucho el libro. Al comprarlo, pensé que me encontraría con una historia de fantasía clásica y nada más lejos de la verdad: es una mezcla de Jane Austen con dragones que luchan contra Napoleón y su intento de invadir Gran Bretaña. Me encantó la rigidez y la moral del protagonista en ciertas situaciones, así como sufrí con el pequeño dragón Levitas.
Watching the bond develop between Laurence and Temeraire is a little like a love story, except then it'll be bestiality, so ew, definitely not!
Laurence is at first distressed about leaving all that he knows and values, but gradually, his affection for Temeraire and respect for the dragon's intelligence grows, until he cannot bear to be separated from the creature who has become his best friend.
It is, completely and totally, from the first book to the sixth, thus far, Temeraire who is the heart and soul of the story.
And it's not just Laurence and Temeraire who are likeable in this book.
I must say, I was a little hesitant to dive into another Naomi Novik book after really not loving Uprooted, but I was very happily surprised by this book and I will certainly carry the series on.
When this egg does indeed hatch no one knows the dragon's breed, but it takes a liking to Lawrence and from then on the course of his life shifts far from what he had anticipated...What I most loved about this was that Temeraire (the dragon) was sentient and intelligent and filled with personality.
I loved seeing Temeraire's inquisitive nature come out, and the bond he formed with Lawrence over the course of just this one book was really lovely.
An excellent book!
Imagine if during Napoleon's time nations had an Air Force – made up of dragons!
Laurence is just an unsuspecting naval captain when his ship captures a French ship carrying a dragon's egg.
Laurence is very surprised when the hatchling picks him.
As a man bonded to a dragon, he is forced to give up his job and become an aviator.
He gets to know his dragon, Temeraire, who is very intelligent.
He gets to know some other aviators, some are even women.
Some are good, some are bad.
Very good book.
'How did you like the book?' Laurence asked.'I enjoyed it.' Temeraire said 'I liked the dragons and the people.
But then that ended and we were in British society and the captain was dealing with his old family and friends; seeing whether they'd accept him now that he wasn't a ship captain anymore, and those people were interesting and I wanted to get to know them but then that ended and they were rushed off to the dragon school.''And how did you like the dragon school?' Laurence asked, amused but impressed at how seriously Temeraire was analyzing a story he himself had treated as a lark.'I liked that.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. Outstanding beginning to what looks like a great series. Excellent back story/ world-building making the presence of Dragons in the time of Napoleon seem very realistic. As great as that was, what carried the story was the superbly written relationship between Temeraire and Capt. Lawrence. Highly recommended. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2007)Winner: Locus Award for Best First Novel (2007)
I really enjoyed this. I only took a star off because I felt like there wasn't enough story to it. Interestingly, that is sort of how I felt about Uprooted. It could certainly be that I am blinded by how brilliantly Naomi writes her characters, that I miss the actual plot. I don't know. I need to think about it.
Dragons here are essentially flying, talking ships, which makes for some entertaining battle scenes and opens up room for an imaginative alternate world.The plot is entertaining--not action-packed: there’s a lot of training, and a lot about Laurence’s adjustment to the Aerial Corps, which is much more casual and modern than he’s used to (there are even *gasp* women in it!)--but fun; I was rooting for Laurence and his dragon, Temeraire, and enjoyed the story throughout.
