https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1659471.The_Decline_of_the_West_Vol_2
Kao što sam rekao i za prvi tom Spenglerovo poimanje povijesti je svijest o temporocentrizmu- barok drugačije doživljava srednji vijek nego postmodernizam, Spengler, također, shvaća eurocentričnost zapadnjačke povijesti koja je iznjedrila glupost poput podjele na stari, srednji i novi vijek.Spengler je ovom knjigom stvorio univerzalni pogled na povijest, na povijesnost.Bacio bih ovaj zanimljivi citat u vezi jezika:"Nastanak glagola je posljednji veliki događaj u toj povijesti, kojim se stvaranje govornog jezika u neku ruku dovršava.
Ne kažem ovo ironično već s poštovanjem.Dovršio bih ovaj osvrt još jednim citatom, u kojem Spengler progovara o specifikumu neizgradnje ruske kulture;"Tolstoj je prošla, a Dostojevski buduća Rusija.
Most informative and practical book I've ever read. A guide for life if you possess the human quality to accept its messages. Life-changing.
Spengler begins this volume by demonstrating his clear misunderstanding of evolution in the first thirty pages and I almost tossed the book across the room.
I suppose at the time of his writing he was responding to the events going on in Germany and considering Germany was crushed none of what he thought would happen did happen.
There is no Caesar in the U.S., science continues to trudge away, I suppose some of the masses doesn't trust it.
I suppose his "winter" ideas are kind of coming true but it's not a bad thing.
Spengler just enjoyed flowery stuff a little too much.
"and that circumstances of light"
El destino conduce al que se somete y arrastra al que se resiste (Séneca).La historia como rueda que eleva y derrumba civilizaciones y voluntades. Refutación de la creencia ingenua en el progreso continuo.¿Qué sera de nuestro mundo cuando no podamos crecer más?¿Que fuerza dominará en un juego de suma cero?
Spengler (1880-1936) was merely an Oberschullehrer (high school teacher), but he astonished the world with a fascinating work on reasons for the decline of civilizations, in which he displayed astonishing erudition. I gave the work 4 stars only because some of his generalizations seem too sweeping. He does make you think, however.
Както написах и за първия том - бил е много актуален след войната, но към настоящия момент го намирам за доста остаряло четиво.
