https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37187.The_Tiger_Rising
Rob is fascinated by the tiger as it seems to have magically appeared.Tyger Tyger, burning bright, In the forests of the night; What immortal hand or eye, Could frame thy fearful symmetry?Meanwhile, at school, Rob meets the new girl (Sistine) and they begin to develop a beautiful friendship.
She encourages Rob to talk about his mom and to deal with his emotions.“I don’t want to see your stupid tiger!” she shouted.
I have no doubt they’ll enjoy reading it again as they get a little older.This is another one of Kate DiCamillo’s books that’s wonderfully written with strong character development and symbolism.
I was surprised by who connected to this short sad story.
Beatriz is not my class star.
She loved this book and today as I finished it and we spent sometime reflecting on it she surprised me by being the one student who really got that this story isn't really about a tiger.
This book is the first really sad book I've read to my class this year, but as I finished I felt an overwhelming appreciation for how important sad endings are to my kids.
So for her a book that affirms sadness as normal would be tremendous.
this author probably gives out prunes to kids on halloween.
this is the second of her books i have read, and it's another depressing one.
it's true, both of them end on sortof upbeat themes like the redemptive power of love (once you are so broken and disfigured it's almost not even worth it) or the liberating feeling of overcoming grief (after so much death and senseless destruction that no one really cares about your tiny feelings) so yeah - little happy afterthoughts.
the lady can write, that's for sure, and i certainly don't have a problem with gloom, but it seems that every kid's book i read is just grim.
I won’t get on my soap box right now about the greatness of Harry, but The Tiger Rising is exactly the kind of work that I would point to to as proof that anyone who thinks that books meant for children can never match the intellectual complexity of a work written for adults, completely and utterly wrong.
Set in an overcast and swampy Florida, in that un-nameable book-time of before now and after World War II, The Tiger Rising follows Rob, a sixth grade boy, whose mother has recently died of cancer, now living in a motel with his quietly grief-paralyzed father.
As usual in DiCamillo's longer works, there is a dark side to this tale of a boy whose mother recently passed away, whose father works as a maintenance man at a run-down motel, and whose inner pain is so strong that it causes his legs to sprout blisters.
DiCamillo takes this boy, Rob, and makes me want to care about him, makes me want to understand his pain, and makes me long to find a way to help him open up his 'suitcase' where he keeps all of his feelings shut tight.
And with the tiger burning bright, Rob and Sistine may just find a way to deal with what injustices life served them.
Let me give you a plot summary- There is a tiger in town, this girl likes it, and so does this boy.
They want to let it out, but the boy's father works for the man who is holding the tiger captive.
SO they finally let the tiger go, and guess what, the dad shoots it.
The ending leaves you with a "so what" effect, leaving you to wonder what you gained from the book.
I didn't gain much, for sure.
The girl remains a snob the whole book, and well, I'm left with the "so what" thing, because what's the point again?
I’ve read several of Kate DiCamillo’s novels, and I use two of them with my students.
As a result, I didn’t really bond with them.
She’s a flashy character in the way she dresses and acts, but without more development she comes across as more spoiled than sympathetic.
I did like the character of Willie May. She came across as genuine and endearing.
I also liked Rob’s suitcase of not-thought about things.
In this novel, I felt like she relied too heavily on tragedy to be the plot.
As a result, her character didn’t develop, and I never really bonded with them.
The Tiger Rising is the story of two very sad and broken children, and how they are saved by a tiger, but not at all in the way you would expect. This story broke my heart. There's something about the way DiCamillo writes that touches my deepest emotions. I don't know if I can explain how or why, but it's as if I feel the stories, instead of reading them. It's some strange retro-childhood cathartic experience that makes me want to cry myself clean, as if my child-tears could wash away all the stains of jaded adulthood.
This was hard to put down.
It's a very poignant story with raw and complex emotions dealing with intense grief and anger.
I am a big fan of Kate DiCamillo's books.
She has a way with words and symbolisms that makes a story beautiful to me.
Although this was a gripping middle grade read with a beautiful, redeeming plot, I would give caution to some.
It's not a book that will be loved by all, but it is a book that I feel many readers will find hope and peace in their own lives, once they turn the last page.
Six blasphemies, one mild cuss word.
2.5Estuvo bien, sin embargo, el libro claramente, desde un principio, busca conmover al lector y tratar de tocar su corazón, no está mal que lo haga, pero la intención es tan clara que resulta forzada.
Creo que la autora se inclina por este tipo de libros, cortos pero con peso, y está bien, solo que no siempre resulta adecuado, como en este caso.
Toca un tema fuerte de una manera nerviosa y rápida, lo cual no permite que el lector conecte con la fuerza de la historia, sintiendo que los protagonistas están pero no aportan.
Nos enseña que los peores momentos nos hacen fuertes, pero tenemos que luchar para ganar esa fortaleza.
The tiger rising is a great book that shows how rob goes through all of these events with a tiger.He meets a girl named Sistine.Rob keeps all of his emotions down and feelings down ,but Sistine puts them out their for the whole entire world to see.When rob has to make a decision to let the tiger go or just to let it be.And if he does let it go what will happen to it?
I thought this book was like the people of northern New Jersey: tough, short and complicated. It was a bit depressing throughout, with tinged of hope around the edges. I've read it four time as a read-aloud for 4th graders, and it's getting better each time. A lot of different ways to read this, and it's like a non-stinky onion with lots of layers.
Kate DiCamillo could be my favorite or second-favorite children's book author. I love her deeply flawed yet lovable characters. Tiger Rising has two children, both with troubles, who against the odds become friends.
I gave this book 4 stars, because it was really good, but there was a sad ending in the book, and there was a sassy character in the book. Also I thought it was good, because it had a lot of detail, and it was very interesting, and it was hard to stop reading.
Although the storyline particularly for me was a bit boring, but the meaning and the metaphors from this book were extraordinary!
I didn't like how the author killed the tiger at the end but I understand why she did, it made it more powerful.
The tiger itself was not really as magical as I had thought it was supposed to be, it was just another...
I encourage my friends to read this book because the meaning is powerful and how the author expresses each event and feeling is simply amazing besides the few minor opinions listed above.
True, it's 116 pages, but there aren't many words per page, and the story reads quickly and wraps up neatly, without 'wasting' words on tangents.
I'm not a fan of short stories, and I don't like reading about cruelty.That said, the story moves along quickly and keeps the readers' attention while dealing with tough topics (bullies, death, divorce, life lessons).
Both kids are endearing; I wanted to bring them home with me and help them heal.
Their feelings, like the tiger itself, can't be caged in forever.I'd like to hear kids' thoughts about the book.
Pernahkah kau merasa seperti menyimpan seekor harimau di dalam hatimu? Mungkin ada beberapa dari kita yang pernah atau masih menyimpan 'harimau' di dalam hatinya. Harimau itu bisa berupa kesedihan, kemarahan, kepahitan, pemberontakan, dan berbagai macam lagi yang terus dipendam dalam hati sampai berkarat, dan akhirnya menyedot sisa kehidupan yang kita miliki.The Tiger Rising mengisahkan seorang anak lelaki, Rob Horton, yang berjuang melawan kesedihannya karena ditinggal ibunda tercinta. Rob sam
Rob sampai pada suatu titik dalam hidupnya dimana ia menyimpan rapat-rapat segala perasaannya dan bersikap diam untuk banyak hal, bahkan ketika ia menjadi korban bullying.Sampai di suatu hari yang ajaib, saat berjalan-jalan di hutan, ia menemukan seekor harimau yang terkurung dalam kandang.
Rob dan sahabat barunya pun mulai memikirkan untuk melepaskan si harimau dari kandangnya, dan seiring tumbuhnya persahabatan mereka, pelan-pelan hati Rob pun dijalari perasaan yang hampir dilupakannya--yaitu kebahagiaan.Kisah ini amat sederhana dan cenderung melankolis, namun nilai moral yang dapat diambil sangat bagus, yaitu jangan menyimpan rapat-rapat perasaan atau kenangan yang kau miliki, walaupun mungkin menyakitkan.
8, just because it might have been my least favorite of her books.
What I really like about this story is that there is a lot of character development in this book, with very important life lessons.
I also related to Rob in away I've never related to a character before: his itchy legs.
My entire life I have never been able to stop the scratching.
There were so few problems with this book I won't even write them down, just read it for yourself!
Great story, beautiful writing as always!
yang tahu kalau ada seekor harimau dilepas di daerah pemukiman di mana masyarakatnya jarang melihat hewan ini berkeliaran bebas, harimau itu pasti akan mengejutkan banyak orang.
Dan akan ada yang terluka saat berhadapan dengannya.
Hal tidak baik dari menahan perasaanmu adalah kakimu bisa ruam2 dan gatal, sehingga kamu jadi malas sekolah.
Nanti bisa terjeblos di lubang, atau bertabrakan dengan orang lain yang sama2 memandang ke atas.
Mending kalau orang yang kita tabrak itu cakep dan sesuai selera, jadi kita bisa tertarik dan jatuh cinta.
Padahal ketemu orang seperti itu kan tidak tiap hari.
Juga, belum tentu orang itu nanti tidak selingkuh...
Here's the kicker for me: it read like a school book.
Let's all talk about the tiger's death and whether it had to happen.
The setting is a little strange, almost like the book is set in a bubble.
I don't mind this-- it gives it a timeless quality that many classic children's books have-- but it makes the characters a little harder to relate to.
I also wanted a little more exposition when the tiger is shot, or just a little more time spent with Sistine and Willie May or Rob's father before it happens.
윈딕시를 읽고 나서 케이트 디카밀로의 책들에 관심이 생겨 연이어 읽고 있습니다.타이거 라이징은 평범하게 진행되는 듯한 면 속에서도 마음에 남는 대목들이 있어서 favorite으로 
Άλλο ένα δυνατό έργο απο την Dicamillo.
Η γλώσσα που χρησιμοποίησε είναι απλή, η αφήγηση ρεαλιστική παρόλα αυτά καθόλη τη διάρκεια της ανάγνωσης υπάρχει διάχυτη μία έντονη μελαγχολία.
Χρησιμοποίησε το συμβολισμό της τίγρης για να αναδείξει τα θαμμένα συναισθήματα των ηρώων κάτι που θα μπορούσε να είναι όμορφο και να σε αγγίξει αν ίσως η διήγηση κρατούσε λίγες παραπάνω σελίδες, διότι εμένα με άφησε ανικανοποίητη στο τέλος.
Την συγγραφέα τη προτιμώ σε ποιο παραμυθένιες διηγήσεις οπού περνάει τα μηνύματα με ποιητικό λόγο (κάτι που της δίνει χίλιους δύο τρόπους να το κάνει).
Παρόλα αυτά, παραμένει η γνωστή Dicamillo, αν κ δεν μου άρεσε όσο άλλα αξίζει το κόπο να διαβάστει.
this book is good
2 / 5Es bastante claro que esta pequeña novela esperaba entrar profundamente en mi corazón. Pero por desgracia no llegué a conectar con lo que pretendía hacerme sentir. O darme a entender.
Spoiler someone die
I thought this was a awsome book and it was very well written.It was a little hard to figure out that they were in florida.But over all great book.This is one of the best books i have ever read
I liked it because the book was very described by that i mean you can really picture what was going on.
I swear that Kate DiCamillo must have spent some time reading Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings as this book has such a sense of some of Rawlings work, it is even set in Florida.
And, of course, there is Blake because there is a tiger and I am gonna fall head over heels in love with a wee girl who quotes Blake and is named Sistine, for the chapel.
He had seen a picture of it in the big art book that Mrs. Dupree kept on a small shelf behind her desk in the library.
They're women who God speaks through.""Oh," said Rob, "a prophetess." He turned the word over in his mouth.
I thought this book was very interesting.
It had a lot of unexpected things in the book that I would not have expected.
One thing would lead to the next and sometimes I would just get lost in the book.
I would recommend this book to anyone interested in action books.
This book was about a boy named Rob who was wandering along in the forest one day and spotted a tiger in a cage.
That same day he met this girl who happened to be in the forest as well.
They kept meeting together in the forest trying to figure out why the tiger was there.
I think that this is a good book and i didn't know that Robs dad was going to kill the tiger.But he killed the tiger for a reason because who knows what that tiger would do to them he could have attacked them and my favorite part of the book is when wille may said " you got to let the hapieness rise on up".
