https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14975.Labyrinth
As I was reading this I greatly disliked it at some times and was really into it at other times.
Mosse's writing made me cringe at times.
They should be ashamed.) And the passiveness of characters telling each other the story while the reader "listens in" bugged me.
But I understand why the author needed to have the present day involved in her story as she wanted to write it.
I loved reading about the Cathars.
Although, come to think of it, there wasn't a whole lot of detailed discussion about the Cathars in "Labyrinth," but I have been inspired to do a little reading on my own.
Book Review  3.5 of 5 stars to Labyrinth, the first book in a three part series entitled "Languedoc," written in 2005 by Kate Mosse. I enjoyed this book. Many people felt it was a bit boring and inconsistent. It was one of the earlier books I read in the adventure genre, around the time I got hooked on the Da Vinci code book and series. Ultimately, I love this genre... when you go back and forth in time periods, cover adventures, try to connect ancient peoples to someone current, find devastat
Book Review
3.5 of 5 stars to Labyrinth, the first book in a three part series entitled "Languedoc," written in 2005 by Kate Mosse.
I enjoyed this book.
It was one of the earlier books I read in the adventure genre, around the time I got hooked on the Da Vinci code book and series.
when you go back and forth in time periods, cover adventures, try to connect ancient peoples to someone current, find devastating secrets, a little bit of romance...
Felt like it had a bit of everything for me.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
For a long time, The Da Vinci Code put me right off books about the Cathars or the Holy Grail, so I was hesitant to pick up Kate Mosse's book.
In the 13th century, Catholic churchmen and French nobles led an invasion of the Pays d'Oc and a bloody suppression of the Cathars, whom they regarded as heretics.Mosse combines two stories: a historical fiction, set against the invasion of the Pays d'Oc; the other, a modern thriller set in the Languedoc region of France.
(I always thought the Da Vinci Code's protagonist was a bit thick.) 2)Mosse doesn't make careless, glaring factual historical errors.
Archaeology ladies get into all sorts of European adventure hi-jinx with a parallel time slip story line and get caught up with sinister occult goings on which ultimately wind up being tied into their own personal family history making it a sort of GRAIL LORE: THIS TIME IT'S PERSONAL style read.
Ackroyd, Amis, Smith and Mosse all embrace and employ this technique and if you have an author who is equal to the task of producing two well written narratives with different tones and styles then it works well.
Mosse achieves this and both stories are equally well written and engaging.
I've read a lot of books on the Holy Grail in my time (some may say an obsessive amount, I prefer to think of myself as thorough) from Le Morte D'Arthur to The Da Vinci Code and sadly this falls into the latter category.
Like The Da Vinci Code there are times when the bad writing style (that endless use of italics to denote a character is thinking, what's that about?
Mosse gets the message across a little better.In conclusion: overly long, overly hyped and badly edited, but conversely I did enjoy it and it's a thousand times better than anything Dan Brown could write
This pulled at me and repulsed me simultaneously.
As a medievalist and amateur historian, I was addicted to learning how Mosse laid out this Grail fantasy.
My repulsion was, however, centered on the regrettably mediocre writing.
Mosse relies on heavy exposition and tosses adjectives and adverbs in like my grandmother does salt.
Her characters are poorly developed, largely one-dimensional folk and her story suffers from a densely-packed exposition.
As Mosse reaches a climax, she relies on her modern protagonist and characters to tell about the climax's thirteenth century events instead of allowing the reader to be present and to witness them ourselves.
2.5 stars From the start I had a love-hate relationship with this book. One minute I was excited the next I was bored out of my mind.Review athttps://edwardsghostengine.wordpress....
I read this book some time ago, and have recently been reminded of its sorry existence by the fact that a dramatisation is due to be screened in the not so distant future.
Personal, er, "highlights" for me included, the main character (Alice) wandering around some village in the middle of nowhere only to bump into a bloke she once met yunks ago in another country.
If you see it, and are tempted to buy the book: save yourselves while you still can.
One final point: please remember the innocent trees that died so this book could be printed.
This is split between early 13th century France at the time of the Cathars and France in 2005; the main protagonists being Alais in 1205 and Alice in 2005 (Of course there isn't a link of any sort; familial, psychic or anything!!!!) .
The historical part is full of holes, the switching centuries can be irritating and the whole plot requires a significant suspension of disbelief.However, it is well written, better than Dan Brown and reads easily.
This may sound like I didn't really like it, but I've read many worse books in my time (anyone remember The Late Great Planet Earth; yes I really read that in my teens!) and it rattled along at a decent pace.
Needless to say, I got down the plane tired but utterly fascinated by the world created by Mosse.
The book is written as two stories that run in parallel time-lines.
The second story in the present, with a young archeologist as the protagonist who's about to discover her past guards many more surprises than she could have ever imagined.It's a long book, but it's easy to read, the pages fly one after the other, and Mosse does an excellent job grabbing the reader and never letting go.
And the end is very satisfying.A well written and interesting book, worth of a chance.
When eventually I started reading I was fascinated from the first page and found it a riveting story.
In the earlier thread, in medieval Carcassonne, seventeen year old Alais puts her life at risk to protect and keep hidden three ancient books which are said to hold the secret of the true Grail.
Readers are provided with a suspenseful story as mysteries in both times are resolved and the links between our protagonists are revealed.
For example, my total lack of knowledge about Cathars, about Grails and religious persecution in medieval times meant everything I read was new and exciting.
I didn't read The Da Vinci Code, but given that it was impossible to avoid or ignore, I understand both books tackle some similar themes.
While parts of "Labyrinth" are a bit silly (such as the sex scenes, oh brother), overall the plot is actually quite moving.
But the author clearly knows her material, and overall the history and religion are handled intelligently.
This is an enjoyable read that you don't have to feel guilty about indulging in, as you actually come away having learned some medieval history.
I read somewhere that Kate Mosse wrote the book and created the heroines as antidotes to chicklit characters.
Instead they are totally clueless, lacking the merest common sense and foresight: going after their own heads, which most of the time has disastrous consequences not only for themselves, but, sadly, for others as well.
OK, so I speak French, but there just might be readers who don't!There was only one mystery that kept on nagging at me while reading the book: WHERE WAS THE EDITOR FOR GOODNESS SAKE!!!
Rating Clarification: 2.5 StarsHad potential to be a thrilling, page-turning read, but the story never seemed to take off. Instead, both the present and past plotlines meandered on with short moments of good suspense, then with abrupt stops containing filler that did nothing to advance the mystery. The ending, when it finally arrived, was anticlimatic.2.5 stars because Mosse can write a lovely sense of place. Made even me want to visit southern France, especially the medieval walled castle city of Carcassone (try googling Carcassone and see if you don't agree - breathtaking).
"We carry the past within us, in our bones, in our blood," I went into this book thinking about how long and historical it looks, But on the contrary I was captured from Page 1. Kate Mosse really challenged me as a reader, to expand my horizon from my normal books to Historical Fiction and by God I'm glad, because this book  It was so thrilling jumping back in time and the beautiful scenery that is Paris... I loved this book
The book, for me, really developted in the last 300 pages. It took me a long time to get past the first part of the book (mainly because of all the not so important descriptions of everything), but after that an amazing and mysterious story was created, which was what I expected when I started to read the book. I would love to give it five stars, but because of the first part I must give it four.
But the story of this Grail is not the one that we all think we know, but something deeper and more ancient that is tied in with this mysterious symbol of the labyrinth, and reaches back into Ancient Egypt and the founding of civilization.While the last third of the book seems somewhat rushed, as Mosse forgoes the back and forth chapters through time, and relies on present day characters telling what they know of the past; there is an inevitable building that results in a climactic ending of not just character realization, but eye-opening shock on the reader’s part, as they finally know the whole story.
The story is okay, but you have to fight through moments of nausea, sadness and fury to reach the final 300 pages where it almost becomes interesting but then becomes embarrassing again.
By the time I reached the end of the book, I was so bored that I speed-read until I could finally call it a day.
He felt young again."(It is full of tautology like this.
It seemed to squat over the yard and buildings like a malignant Buddha." (!?!?!?!?)"She straightened up and felt the back of her head with her fingers.
This book is too long, too slow and takes itself way too seriously!
The author was still developing the characters 200 pages into the book.This book had the potential to be historical fiction, suspense or romance and the wuthor's wrtiing style leaned a little too close to the romance genre for my tastes.
Good character descriptions are much harder than they seem and some authors have a real gift for it (Jane Austen & Susannah Clarke are two examples).
An author can say more about a character with a few well chosen words than he can in a page of adjectives.
ugh... this one promised to be slow.I couldn't get past ch.4.The premise has been over used lately.
Unfortunately, Mosse only seemed able to display her legit historical chops and obvious devotion to France's little-known historical nooks through a poorly-edited vomitorium of words -- the writing isn't bad, but there's too much of it, and turning a page knowing nothing is going to happen on the next one is a pretty defeating experience.
Obviously, the true test of any Grail-themed work is how well it stands up to Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade -- and even correcting for the cinematic awesomeness of immortality-hunting Nazis and the kooky knight intoning "You have chosen...wisely", Labyrinth doesn't come close.
This was very disappointing, it's at least 250 pages too long and the writing leaves much to be desired. The chapters in the past are much better than the ones in the present because things actually do happen and the history of the Cathars & daily castle life in the 1200s is interesting. It starts off intriguing and the landscape descriptions towards the end are quite lovely, but I wasted way too much time on this one. I also thought it was strange to see Mosse's next book looks & sounds identical to this one.
Great past/present historical about the tragic Cathar sect. Enthralling characters and locations so fine I could place the scenes in my memory from years back.I first heard the author on radio and read it with huge admiration under the misapprehension that the supermodel and single mum Kate Moss had found time to research and write it (it's weighty). I've read it again more recently however knowing Kate Mosse is a different person and it's just as good. Apologies Kate x 2.
In the Pyrenees mountains near Carcassonne, Alice, a volunteer at an archaeological dig stumbles into a cave and makes a startling discovery-two crumbling skeletons, strange writings on the walls, and the pattern of a labyrinth; between the skeletons, a stone ring, and a small leather bag.
The book, he says, contains the secret of the true Grail, and the ring, inscribed with a labyrinth, will identify a guardian of the Grail.
As crusading armies led by Church potentates and nobles of northern France gather outside the city walls of Carcassonne, it will take great sacrifice to keep the secret of the labyrinth safe.
I thought this was a really crap book.
To justify this, Mosse stuck in a lot of explanation for "Why France?" that didn't make all that much sense.
All the surprises the author had in store were painfully obvious, and she used cliches to describe everything.
The Grail part wasn't even interesting- Mosse kept writing about the Truth- what Truth?
The author also seems to have a thing for pain- there is a well-described, in detail torture scene in almost every chapter after the first half of the book.
Having finished this book, I wonder, why?
Also, where is that author, because she needs a good shaking.
The inside cover stuff instantly intrigued me.
I'm all about mysterious/secret, lesser-known histories.
And the story of the Grail is one of the most well-known of the lesser-known histories.
Or even myths.
While this one doesn't go into my favorite theory, it's such a page turner.You learn of both Alice and Alais in alternating chapters, and I really have to give the author credit, for both the creativity and the amount of research that went into this book.
The language, the history.
Even though it won't have that same suspense in a second reading, I think I'll pick up on smaller nuances.
There's real history in there, too.
Some history of the Cathars, history of France, real people that existed.
Read this.
I have to reluctantly admit that I bought this book (at a thrift store) mainly because of the title and cover page. I was intrigued by the idea of an historical fiction book geared towards adults. But after reading the first two chapters I threw it away. I am not certain why as I don't remember any specific details. I do remember that I thought it was better written than many New York Times best sellers but that it wasn't for me.
Labyrinth kept me reading in bed under a nice comfortable duvet for many nights. I love the transition between the two time periods. It was done with finesse.
It's nice that there's an exposition of the backstory of the cathars, for us people who don't actually know their religious history all that well, but it's near the end of the book.
I ended up giving up and googling it, so that I could understand the book better.
By the time it came up in the book, I was already informed by Google and Wikipedia.
I don't know if a book can jump the shark, but just after what I'll spoiler-freeingly call The Mirror Scene, a dying character spends what is the reading time equivalent of fifteen minutes explaining his life story.
The story line drew me in - two different lives were connected by history yet born centuries apart.
Then in the future, I suppose when all was forgiven, why did Mosse not include the story line of Alais' rescue and the time they had a child together and then jump 30 years later to an older Alais?
Is Will also the reincarnation of Guilhem?
More detail please!!!I guess my main issue is that there were so many characters, not enough story line, and then loose ends.
But, it just felt like there was an entire section of the book that Mosse wrote but then chose not to include.
