https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417065.On_the_Road
I guess I identify with Kerouac because in his heart he's not really all that unconventional, but he loves the company of wild adventurers and can be talked into almost anything.I reread the original (well I guess the scroll is the real original, but you know what I mean) before I read this, and they are very similar.
Including the sexual relationship between Carlo Marx/Alan Ginsberg and Dean Moriarty/Neal Cassady changed the dynamic of the book's Denver portion quite a bit.
Cassady's bisexuality is hinted at in the edited OTR but spelling it out the way Kerouac does in the scroll makes the whole situation more complex.
Jack Kerouac (1922 – 1969) is the author of this book.
In 2007, the 50th anniversary edition of the book was published under the title: On the Road: the Original Scroll, which is what I have chosen to read and what I am reviewing.
Kerouac writes of four road-trip adventures taken with his buddy Neal Cassady (1926 – 1968), three across the United States and one to Mexico City.
Kerouac captures well the feel of a road trip across America at the end of the 40s.
Five stars is not enough for this book: it should be ten stars! This is a very beautiful book and rightfully an American classic. Stunning!"On The Road" is the real deal. I just started reading this and it's just a fantastic read. The energy just pops out of the page. The punk rock of novels. Mr. Jack just had the 'moment' when he wrote this, and it is incredible experience to share that 'moment' with the great man. Great.
I felt hungover by the time I was done reading this book.
I couldn't wait for it to end and it's not because I wanted to find out what was going to happen.While there are a few great lines like, "My mother once said that the world would never find peace unless men fell at their women's feet and asked for forgiveness...," and the famous, " ...Because the only people who interest me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones that never yawn or say a commonplace thing...but burn, burn, burn like roman candles across the night" most of the book is quite banal.The book starts out evoking a sense of adventure, freedom, zest for life, and the allure of an unfettered lifestyle.
The book was largely autobiographical and describes Kerouac's road-trip adventures across the United States and Mexico with Cassady in the late 40s, as well as his relationships with other Beat (a group of authors whose literature explored and influenced American culture in the 1950's) writers and friends.Compared to William S.
When you reach 30 and much more 40, it is hard to have a career change because of the bleak economic condition.Central to the story is the strong male friendship between Sal (Jack Kerouac) and Dean (Neal Cassady).
In short, it's a buddy-travel-memoir by an extremely immature and sexist 30-something written in a single paragraph.
As near as I can figure, (1) critics were wowed by the entire book-as-one-paragraph concept; (2) Kerouac was cool & hip because he wrote about smoking marijuana (tea, as he called it); and (3) being wild and immature and attempting to screw every female you met was also considered cool and hip.Bottom line: if you like buddy travel memoirs, go back and read Huckleberry Finn again.
It's still the best buddy travel memoir in the English language.
Yorumun aslı ve devamı Yorum Cadısı'nda.Yolda, daha önce okuduğum hiçbir kitaba benzemiyor: doğal ve çarpıcı anlatımıyla yoğun bir kitap. Kitabın editörü Howard Cunnell'ın deyişiyle ise doğrudan, samimi, ipsiz sapsız, vahşi ve "hakiki" bir eser. Bir şekilde bir yerlere bağlı olan ama içindeki maceraperest ruhu da görmezden gelemeyen herkesin, Yolda'yı okumasını tavsiye ederim.
It is not easy to sift through all the postmodern swill that has come after and still be awed at the pure audacity of Kerouac; the audacity to make up words, to appear at his New York editor's office sweating and stinking of chemical ooze with a manuscript written on 120 feet of rolled paper demanding respect of The Scroll as if it were plumbed from Dead Sea depths.
Tutti fanno quel che credono di dover fare."Tutti conoscono Sulla strada, romanzo manifesto della beat generation, troppo d'avanguardia per gli anni in cui fu pubblicato eppure inevitabilmente prodotto intimo di quegli stessi anni.
Confesso che il mio snobismo letterario mi ha sempre proibito di leggere lo strabusato Sulla strada, preferendo altri romanzi e altre opere più marginali - e forse per questo, più significative - della beat generation.
La grandezza di Kerouac sta nell'aver scritto qualcosa fin troppo in anticipo coi suoi tempi (e da questo, la travagliata storia editoriale del romanzo), e che tuttavia è intimamente connessa con quei tempi.
I remember idolizing these crazy characters - to the point of writing a paper for English class on 'The Beats'.
I also thought that showing Jack as a guy living with his mother in the scroll was much more straightforward than placing him with some mysterious aunt in the mainstream version.
I don't know if it's because of the decade that's passed since I first read On The Road or if this version of the book just presents the characters in a more dejected light...but I found myself feeling more saddened by the characters' lifestyles than inspired by them.
Matching Soundtrack : Jubilee Stomb - Duke EllingtonI find Jack Kerouac's spontaneous prose up to the task.Meanwhile, the five "books" are really uneven, which can somewhat drag you down, however it bears credit to the extensive use of spontaneous prose throughout : the typescript is alleged to have been written in a week.Here goes a collection of observations on the book :- On the Road is reminiscent of French Blablacar, especially in its first third with nothing but a mad series of hitchhiking rides with a wide variety of motorists, informing a compact oral history of the United States, complete with a history of underground music.- Spontaneous prose intends to capture change, telling you about fleeting memories as they reel, letting the flow go to IT without hindrance, a technique looking up to E.Hemingway.
This is in keeping with the child-like presence and attention given to the moment by Jack and Neal.
Yes, they drive from coast to coast, meet people, go to parties, but it’s not the action that is important but the experience Sal and Dean derive from each adventure.The real story of “On The Road: The Original Scroll” isn’t in the book but in how Kerouac created it.
When he was done he took it to his editor, Robert Giroux, who was dumbfounded when Kerouac unfurled it in his office.“On The Road” the version that was released in 1957 was a masterpiece and changed the rules of writing fiction, as well as inspiring a generation of teenagers that would go on the road in the 60’s in search of their own existential adventures and kicks.
It seems like I don't get along well with Mr. Kerouac. Maybe some other time.
Alla quarta lettura degli eventi narrati da Kerouac in Sulla Strada e in quello che è stato battezzato On the Road - Il Rotolo posso dire di essermi approcciata alla storia con occhi nuovi, meravigliati dalla freschezza della scrittura, dal ritmo incalzante con cui si è costretti ad andare avanti e avanti senza respiro fino all'ultima parola.
Il Rotolo invece è un'opera nuova che non ha nulla in comune con il "vecchio" Sulla Strada, si capisce facilmente quanto l'autore stesso potesse detestare il lavoro pubblicato nel '57, un libro che aveva perso lo slancio, la forza e il senso dell'originale.
durante el primer tercio del libro no estaba convencida... pero me como el sombrero sin ningún problema: este libro insufla vida.
[What they do] isn’t writing at all—it’s typing.”I understand what Kerouac is trying to do here: to represent life in the wandering way that life exists, and to present two characters that don’t know quite what they’re looking for and don’t find it.
If you’re looking for a road or travel book, I’d recommend The Road by Cormac McCarthy, a fictional, depressing novel set in a nuked America where almost no living thing exists, but hope glimmers at the edges of the waste.
Perhaps it's because I am a 19-year-old liberal arts college student or perhaps it's because I always have and probably always will yearn for excitement and beauty and adventure, but whatever the reason may be, I absolutely loved Kerouac's On The Road>i>.
While the continuous block of text this "original scroll" is presented in made it a somewhat daunting task to complete, once immersed in the rhythm and excitement this prose had to offer, I found myself reading huge chunks of the novel at one time.
If nothing else, On The Road has inspired me to truly dig life-to not let anything pass me by without making some kind of impression, to take each opportunity as it comes my way.
Auf notdürftig zusammengeklebten Seiten, brachte er seine Reiseimpressionen in einem absatzlosen Text zu Papier.Ausgerollt formt dieses Schriftstück auch physisch eine Straße, was den Kultcharakter des Romans noch verstärkt.Im Gegensatz zum sechs Jahre später erscheinenden Roman ist diese Rohfassung etwas länger, roher, wilder, frenetischer und sexuell expliziter.
Liest man abends fünf bis zehn Seiten, bis einen die Bettnachbarin zwingt das Leselicht zu löschen, kann man am nächsten Tag nochmal von vorne beginnen, weil nichts hängen geblieben ist.Eine redaktionelle Hürde also, die es einem zuweilen schwer macht, sich auf den Inhalt zu konzentrieren.Der wirkt zunächst auch recht trivial.
Watching Dean Moriarty’s wildly self-destructive behavior within the pages of On the Road is to have a close encounter with Neal Cassady, the quintessential Beatnik who, although he didn’t do much writing himself, inspired a myriad of other writers to do so.The Scroll contains no chapter or paragraph breaks whatsoever, and it is this element – combined with the understanding that it was Kerouac’s first and freshest attempt at chronicling his cross-country peregrinations – that gives the reader a more startling sense of urgency than can be provided even in the ultimately galvanizing final edition of On the Road.
"Dönüp dönüp birbirimize baktık, çünkü bir düellodur aşk ve sonra, birbirlerimize son defa baktık."Bu kitap içimde bir şeyleri ateşledi. Orjinal ruloda kişiler gerçek isimleriyle verilmiş ve yazım hataları düzeltilmemiş, buna bayıldım. Coşkuyla bir şeyler anlatırken dilinin dolanması gibi. Bitirdikten sonra kalbimin üzerine koydum.
I first read On The Road (the non-original-scroll) when I was 15 years old and it changed my life.
You see footage of Kerouac in his later days with those broken capillaries, all flabby, right-wing and mean and you worry that if even he could change, or if that was his true nature, then maybe I had too, and maybe that's just the way it goes.
But that's really and truly not the case, and reading it again nearly 20 years later, in its original form, has only confirmed to me that On The Road is a magnificent piece of writing.
At first I thought to say straight away that Kerouac was a sort of son to Steinbeck's short stories like Sweet Thursday, Cannery Row, etc.
I think what spurred on Kerouac was disalluisonment and a sense of profound loss that he couldn't find a way to deal with.
What a great confusion it was for a great many people at the time, one war was barely ended and yet peace was out of reach.
There was a reoccurring theme when Kerouac said he felt like he had forgotten something, but didn't know what.
Somehow I don't think for Kerouac that feeling ever went away...but perhaps it did.
Bir süredir bu kitap hakkında bir şeyler yazmak için kafamı toparlamaya çalışıyorum. Sonunda o gün geldi galiba...Kitabı kabaca özetlemek gerekirse, kitap yazarımızın arkadaşlarıyla, ülkenin bir ucundan diğer ucuna yaptığı yolculuklar üzerine. İlk olarak şunu belirtmeliyim ki, bu kitap kesinlikle beklediğim gibi değildi. Overrated bir hipster kitabı bekliyordum. Hipster kısmı tuttu ama kesinlikle overrated olduğunu söyleyemem. Biraz kıyaslama yapma fırsatı bulduğum için belirteyim, benim de oku
İlk olarak şunu belirtmeliyim ki, bu kitap kesinlikle beklediğim gibi değildi.
Overrated bir hipster kitabı bekliyordum.
Hipster kısmı tuttu ama kesinlikle overrated olduğunu söyleyemem.
Biraz kıyaslama yapma fırsatı bulduğum için belirteyim, benim de okuduğum orijinal rulo versiyonun romanlaştırılmış halinden tek farkı isimler değil.
Kitabı elinize aldığınız andan itibaren dümdüz bir yazı okumaya başlıyorsunuz.
Kitabı okumaya ara vermek için “bölüm sonu” bekleyen biri olarak buna alışmak biraz zaman aldı.
Orijinalliğin bozulmaması adına imla hatalarına çok da dokunulmamış, benim gibi “Grammar Nazi” tipler için bu da bir eksi olabilir.
İlk birkaç sayfadan itibaren kitabın sonuna kadar en çok düşündüğüm şey “keşke ben de…” oldu.
My first experience of On the Road was this quotation:“the only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones who never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars.”It was actually quoted in a fanfiction, as Axel's favourite book (Kingdom Hearts AU).
For that, I've loved Kerouac from afar, not daring to try reading it because that quote told me all I needed to know.Actually, I kind of wish I was still in that state of not having read On the Road.
I enjoyed this book far more a few years ago.
I think Kerouac's tale is decent, gloriously rebellious, but over-hyped; this book is marked with a few fantastic insights but my belief is that On The Road is only popular due to timeliness and the oft-consumed glamorization of alcoholism.
I enjoy On The Road a bit more, however, when it is coupled with his daughter's personal essays, which add a touch of reality to the narrative fiction that makes up this book.
Sure it's from the fifties and people had different sensibilities back then yadda yadda but the fact that every female character exists only as an accessory to a man - each female character is defined by the man to which she is attached - feels deeply wrong.
I still want to give ON THE ROAD five stars because the writing itself is superb and mind-widening, but a perfect score would feel like an endorsement of the fifties worldview the book embodies, and that means I will be somewhat guiltily dropping my score to a 4...
Üç beş zibidinin yollarda geçen hayatı...Fena kitap sayılmaz. Yeraltı edebiyatının güzel bir örneği.Kitapla ilgili en akılda kalıcı şey, ilk sayfadan son sayfaya kadar yazıyla dolu olması. Dolu dolu 490 sayfa yazı. Ne bölümler arası boşluk var ne paragraflar arası. Hatta paragraf maragraf yok kitapta. Dümdüz yazmış geçmiş adam.Boş vaktiniz varsa okuyun.
Dieses verrückte, phantastische, rasend irre Buch voller wildem, echtem, traurigem Leben! Der reinste Wahnsinn! Ich liebe es! Am besten gefallen mir die Szenen, in denen Kerouac voll reiner Leidenschaft die Musik beschreibt. Aber es ist einfach alles komplett unglaublich und wunderbar. :D
Neal is so sexually obsessed (and apparently well hung) that he will travel the world for sex, be it female, or male (the latter conveniently excised in the first published version.) He is compulsive and single-minded in pursuit of it, just as, for this novel, Kerouac is single-minded in his search for meaning and experience of life.
Kerouac is desperate, not to settle down in the suburbs - he’s desperate for meaning and significance and the Why and How of life and living after the ultimate destruction and desecration.
I decided to read the original scroll some 3 years after having read the novel version, book which changed my life forever.
I wanted to remind myself of why I had named Jack and On the Road as pivotal in my life, why I'd named them as the explanation of my career choice, my interests, and I was promptly reminded indeed.
Kerouac's way of perceiving life is one that equates life to art.
The point of life is art.
Kerouac is thus bestowed with Vision and a Voice, very defined and cool.
