https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/501635.Nip_the_Buds_Shoot_the_Kids
The Japanese boys, who were sent there as part of the reformatory program of the government during WWII, have external tormentors: the villagers who had to flee and leave them behind because of the onslaught of plague.
When the adult villagers went back after the plague they scrambled to cover their acts by further tormenting the poor Japanese boys.In my opinion, the Nobel committee members who wrote their award rationale were correct.
Both of these novels reflect the human condition or predicament of today.
That's a literary term, and I encourage college freshmen to use it in their essays.So let's just start with the elephant in the room: yes, the translation is awful.
Because there is just no way this book is simultaneously this terrible and this tenacious.
Incidentally, this series of words could go a long way in dressing up that awful, nigh impossible sex scene.*Maybe just let this one go, man.
There are surely other books in need of translations, and they may even warrant them.That's all I've got for now.
The Japanese reform school boys or the contributing to my already bad image of hateful villagers types?
It's a weird feeling I have that if I ever had kids I'd have lots of filthy boys running around outside and they'd have fangs and sharp claws.
The what it would be like to be a boy feeling is Wendy.
If you want to read a I-can't-believe-this-was-published translation, try this book.
I'm giving 5 stars to the novel that I think this is.
English is no longer the English's language, especially not the English literary elite's, and they should at last stop trying to ramrod the wide English speaking world through the eyeballs with Cambridge's inept idea of Scouse, as though it had anything whatsoever to do with rural Japanese.
Violent from start to finish, with chapter titles way too revealing, and male genitals shrinking in the cold time after time over and over - stuff like that makes me cringe, stuff like that can cross prominent authors off my reading list for good, stuff like that done right apparently can earn you a Nobel Prize but my aproval?
Maybe it's the setting: Japan during WWII, isolated snow buried little village.
But whatever it is, it makes the book damn good.
What the two books have in common is young boys in isolation and a level of violence which you usually don't associate with kids, but that's it.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Si bien, hay días y hay noches, toda la novela la sentí como si fuera de noche, el bosque apenas lo recreé en sombras, las casas eran huecos abstractos, negros, donde el foco de atención es la sangre, las heridas, el dolor, la pudrición, los malos olores, los efluvios, la muerte, la hediondez, el excremento; porque a Kenzaburō Ōe no le interesa negar la mierda y enfrenta al lector a ella, lo deja sin escape ni opción, deja a todo ello alumbrando en medio de la nada, en una nada sin fondo.
Oé, con su estilo crudo y directo, no deja de cautivarme. Grande.
Though the translation contains errors, as many reviewers point out, Oe’s story is a powerful one and one that will not easily be forgotten.
Towards the end of the Second World War it is necessary to evacuate a small Reformatory School from the city to the mountains, a small group of 15 adolescent boys and there Warden.
Rather, if anything deeper is to be read into this, it is an indictment of war-time cruelty and a consideration of fear in society and place of outsiders.
I found it fascinating, and though the translation may have some errors, it certainly does not deteriorate from appreciating the quality of the writing.
Gândurile și observațiile naratorului, introspecțiile care frizează maturitatea, sensibilitatea care transpare din povestea băiatului ne dezvăluie versiunea intimă din interiorul grupului, în care furia se împletește cu slăbiciunea și neputința, iar delincvenții juvenili apar ca ceea ce sunt de fapt: niște copii care încă nu au lăsat în urmă copilăria, ceva mai agresivi și indisciplinați, e drept, dar tratați cu o asprime mult peste măsura delictelor de care s-au făcut vinovați.Kenzaburo Oe m-a surprins prin amestecul de grotesc, duritate, vulgaritate și lirism, care a avut un efect destul de ciudat asupra mea.
The go-to comparison for a bunch of kids left on their own is Lord of the Flies, but this is not a story of children trying to form a society that fails because of the children’s inherent nature, instead it’s the cruelty of the adult villagers that most drives the darkness of Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids.Any book completed by a 23 year old is impressive to a degree, but, as previously mentioned, this is an amateurish work.
Doloroso, cruel, real...Muchas cosas se pueden decir de este libro que con su corta extensión me ha hecho estremecer en ocasiones.Qué una sociedad abandone a un grupo de niños por considerarlos parias esperando que mueran a manos de una epidemia es espeluznante. Ver como estos mismos niños reaccionan recuerda un poco al Señor de las moscas y quizá por eso me llamó la atención. El protagonista y narrador, es una voz que cuenta las cosas de una manera con la que es fácil empatizar y solo por conocerle, merece la pena leer el libro
It is based on his experiences as a child growing up on a remote Japanese island during World War II.
When I read the book last November, I was going through a period of reading about WWII from the Japanese point of view, for which I was glad.
The main character, the one who tried to find an escape, is the only one who just barely benefited from his brief brush with freedom.It is a harrowing story on a level with Lord of the Flies and J G Ballard's Empire of the Sun. The writing is excellent and I liked the book.
"Reisst die Knospen ab.." von Kenzaburō Ōe ist ein Roman, der den Leser zuerst auffordert, sich mit der Prosa des Autors anzufreunden.
In einer Sprache voller wunderbarer Bilder, Beschreibungen der Natur und Umwege bringt uns der Japaner die Geschichte von verstossenen Jungs näher, die in den Wirrungen des zweiten Weltkrieges in einem abgelegenen Dorf überleben müssen.
Mit fortschreitenden Kapiteln dringt man nicht nur in die Geheimnisse der Erzählung tiefer ein, sondern lebt auch mit den geschriebenen Wörtern.
Plötzlich entfaltet sich eine grosse Kraft in den Sätzen, der Autor spielt mit der Zeit und verpackt viele Hinweise und Kritiken an unsere Gesellschaftssysteme.
Kenzaburo Oe is a writer who always leads me to cinematic analogies-- David Lynch and Takashi Miike, primarily-- so I'm gonna make another.What if you took the ragtag boys of The 400 Blows, and transferred them to the ruins of 1940s Japan? What if you added enough desperate gay sex in hovels to make Jean Genet blush, occupying soldiers, prison slave labor, fascist remnants, girls with their mothers' corpses, down-and-out Koreans trapped in Japan, and descriptions of flaccid penises?You'd have Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids, Oe-san's first novel, which was just as weird and chaotic as I'd hoped.
Esta novela es comparada con el señor de las moscas de Golding, la cual no terminé porque me aburrió infinitamente. No puedo decir si es mejor o peor que esta última, pero a mí me pareció excelente.
Mi reseña en un solo gif.
An honest 4.5 star rating.
Cuando uno lee la sinopsis de "Arrancad las semillas, fusilad a los niños" uno puede pensar que es una historia del mismo tono de "El Señor de las Moscas", editada solo un poco antes y que ha logrado trascender firmemente en el imaginario colectivo.
No es para nada una lectura sencilla, es muy dura, aún y cuando la historia narrada podría pasar simplemente como una anécdota dentro de una historia más grande no contada, son las virtudes narrativas del autor las que logran permear el texto de una calidad de evocación bastante profunda...
Tal vez, con eso en mente, me habría sorprendido más o habría juzgado con otros parámetros la lectura.
Sin embargo, creo, así es como se debe de leer casi siempre: hay que juzgar la obra por sí misma, por el sistema cerrado que es y no por la edad o la circunstancia en la que fue escrita.
En general, me pareció una novela muy mediana; si bien los hechos que narra pueden resultar interesantes por funestos (la guerra, un grupo itinerante de reclusos de un reformatorio, la peste) y porque, inevitablemente, obligan a una reflexión sobre la naturaleza humana, creo que no hay mucho más que eso: hechos.
"Câțiva dintre noi s-au dus până la gardul viu și și-au fâlfâit în fața sătenilor penisurile mici și imature, ca niște piersici roșiatice.” Doamnelor și domnilor, vă prezint câștigătorul premiului Nobel pentru literatură din 1994, Kenzaburō Ōe.
E genul de carte care vrea să-ți smulgă o lacrimă (sau un pic de șoc, depinde dacă ești pe o pagină unde cineva suferă, sau pe una în care tinerii își flutură penisurile).Traducerea e fluentă și ușor de citit - constat că Poliromul are fler la traducerile din japoneză, care sunt mult mai digerabile decât ale celor de la Humanitas.
However, at the conclusion of the last couple of pages, I think that the virtues of this story showed through a lot more clearly.
It really does feel like a well written book....
I can only wonder what the book would read like without the baggage from a mediocre translation.
I'm not alone in feeling this way, and I do wonder why a book that should be given special treatment is able to have mistakes like "keep-ing" kept (ha) in.
The book shows (very well) that life isn't fair, and the translation job is proof
Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids was Kenzaburo Oe's debut novel.
First published when he was only 23, it draws on his experiences as a child during World War II.
Some aspects of the plot - a group of boys abandoned during a war & left to look after themselves - invite comparisons to Lord of the Flies, but the similarities are merely superficial.
I found Buds to be far more complex, nuanced and adult - an interesting, compelling, and sometimes difficult read.
I read the English translation, which is apparently not great.
I'm really interested to read more of Oe's work.
Review: https://roofbeamreader.com/2010/09/19...
"That Man should Labour & sorrow, & learn & forget, & returnTo the dark valley whence he came, to begin his labour anew."William Blake, Vala, or the Four Zoas, Night the Eighth (quoted in the translators' introduction)Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids was Kenzaburo Oe's debut novel in 1958.
We're peasants: we nip the bad buds early."And the novel ends with the narrator fleeing like a hunted animal:"But I didn't know what to do to get away through the night forest, fleeing from the brutal villagers, and escape harm.
23)Clocking in at 189 pages, Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids may at first glance seem like a quick read, but due to Oe's mastery of economy of language, this book is far fuller than one might expect.Premise: Set during WWII, a group of teenage boys from a reformatory are marched through the woods (presumably on the remote island of Shikoku, Japan, since that's where the author spent most of his life...but no specific geographic location is ever named) and evacuated to a rural village.
Bauern drohen den fremden Kindern unverhohlen mit Schlägen, Ausreißern und Dieben mit dem Tod. Der Einstiegt ist abrupt und erzeugt eine so dichte Atmosphäre von Hoffnungslosigkeit, Brutalität und unmenschlicher Kälte, dass ich mich gefragt habe, wie hier eine Steigerung überhaupt möglich ist.
(Das ist möglich ...) Es bricht einem das Herz, wenn man liest, wie tapfer die Kinder ihr Schicksal auf sich nehmen.
Inhaltlich ist "Reißt die Knospen ab" ein wichtiges Buch, das ich jedem, der sich für Japan interessiert, empfehlen würde.
Blacksmith used the kids to clean up dead animal bodies.
They went to Jack, the blacksmith, after the kids cleaned up the dead animals.
Read the rest to find out what happens next.Characterization:The boy that the soldiers describe was a skinny but bulky kid that was on a mission.
He has brown hair, hazel eyes, and is always covered in dirt like he got in a fight.The soldiers describe his brother with black hair, blue eyes, doesn't talk much unless is asked to, very strong even though he is younger than his brother.
Personally, I would like to give this book a 4.5 because of how lost I got in the beginning.
Like the Lord of the Flies, Nip the Bud's themes reflect modern anxieties over the tragic complexities of war as experienced by the young.Written in 1958, Nip the Buds also reflects Japanese cultural anxieties about finding meaning in a post-WWII, post-Hiroshima/Nagasaki, post-emperor world.
As with Lord of the Flies, major themes include war, death, justice vs moral good, the loss of innocence, friendship, love, cowardice, class, and survival.If you're a lover of world literature, existentialism, philosophical books like Dostoevsky's Notes from the Underground, or dark coming of age stories like Lord of the Flies, Catcher in the Rye, and A Separate Peace, you'll love Nip the Buds.
The resemblance is that both books deal with boys who are isolated and forced upon their own resources.
The boys in Nip the Buds are delinquents who constitute a sort of roving work force in the Japanese countryside during an unnamed war.
Slowly they even begin to build “civilization:” they gather together to cook, they bury the dead, and come to accept a Korean outsider and then a Japanese deserter into their nascent society.
But it all comes unraveled when the farmers who had deserted the village just as suddenly return and bring with them prejudice and cruelty.
While I like this book, it does seem less ambitious and complex than most of Oe’s later works.
