https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18728.No_Ordinary_Time
Doris Kearns Goodwin’s No Ordinary Time is an unusual World War II book.
This is World War II as viewed from the American home front, and specifically through the eyes of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt.
No Ordinary Time begins in 1940, as Nazi Germany invades France, Luxembourg, and the Low Countries (ending the so-called Sitzkrieg, the period of inactivity following Great Britain’s and France’s declarations of war against the Third Reich).
If Eleanor had turned down FDR’s proposal of marriage, life might have been easier; at the same time, and to his credit, FDR allowed her to achieve greatness in her own right.
(Goodwin’s portrait of Eleanor by itself makes No Ordinary Time a worthwhile read.
Doris Kearns Goodwin is a fine writer who manages to transform seemingly insignificant snippets of data into compelling reading.This volume covers the period from May, 1939 to April, 1945 and focuses on what was going on in the U.S. through the actions and writings of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt and others close to them.
It truly deserves its Pulitzer Prize and the four or more other awards and accolades it garnered.I consider myself reasonably knowledgeable about the period the book covers but I discovered a ton of new information.
I'm reminded of the saying, "If you want to learn something, read non-fiction." I am learning the answers to questions I didn't know I had.
"Exactly how did the internment of the Japanese get started?
When were land mines invented?
What was Eleanor Roosevelt really like?" It was around this time that Executive Order 8802 came about, with the wording we are all so used to: discrimination is banned on grounds of "race, color, creed, or national origin." The national origin part was added because the Poles were having some trouble in Buffalo.
So - read this book and learn more about the country and about WWII.
The book isn't a page-turner but it is readable.
NO ORDINARY TIME is a marvelously researched and rendered account of perhaps the most important and influential marriage in American history.
She admires and empathizes with Franklin, Eleanor and the people around them, but she also sees their flaws and holds them accountable for their mistakes and misjudgments, while also contextualizing them.
Keeping up the president's residence is apparently part of the first lady's traditional responsibilities, but between traveling, writing a daily newspaper column, and advocating for Americans who had no one else of her stature or influence on their side, Eleanor Roosevelt never quite found the time to keep house, even the White House.
Remind me to never read a book this big in the middle of a busy school semester!Throughout the book, I found myself slightly disappointed by FDR.
He isn't lovable or heroic and there are times that I really question his integrity, especially in his relationships and his resistance to stepping down after his first two terms.
So although the book is thorough and full of information and anecdotes, and although there are lots of things to point to that he did well, I find I cannot give it a higher rating, because I could never really get behind FDR like I could when I read about Teddy Roosevelt, John Adams, or Lincoln.
https://bestpresidentialbios.com/2016...Doris Kearns Goodwin’s “No Ordinary Time: Franklin & Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II" was published in 1994 and won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1995.
In addition, the book’s structure and style and flow creates the frequent impression of the reader being rigidly walked through the First Couple’s daily schedules without concern for the relative importance of individual moments.Overall, though, Doris Kearns Goodwin’s “No Ordinary Time” is a compelling review of one of the most compelling and important First Couples in our nation’s history.
Both of the Roosevelts are seen as wonderfully human with strengths and weaknesses and the contrast between Eleanor's idealism and Franklin's practical politics provide a sense of tension and a wonderful feel for what FDR faced as President trying to balance domestic concerns with the war effort.
I did feel that Goodwin was a little more sympathetic to one than the other, but I'll leave that for you to decide.The Roosevelts had a unique marriage partnership that was rooted in events of the past.
Goodwin covers them all with just enough information to put them in place and show their connection to the Roosevelts.
This book is both a biographical look at Franklin and Eleanor's relationship and history framed by the unique marriage that was the Roosevelts.
It was fascinating to delve a bit deeper in Franklin's handling of WWII, his manipulating of politics by waiting for the right timing in public opinion, his relationship with Churchill, building the United Nations, and the far reaching effects of the Yalta Conference.
More at the core of the book was Franklin and Eleanor's marriage.
The things missing to a degree in his relationship with Eleanor.
Franklin obviously adored and appreciated the women in his life.
I listened to the audiobook while reading along with my own paperback copy of the book.Since this massive, brilliantly written Pulitzer Prize-winning history covers the entire period of America’s time in World War II, it covers a huge amount of ground.
It was the strength of their collective gifts and will that got America through a remarkably difficult time on the homefront, and in the process managed to win a world war, maintain the societal gains they had ushered in with the New Deal, and reshape the country into the modern, urban nation it became in the postwar period.
Through No Ordinary Time, I loved learning more about the U.S. home front during WWII and the impact FDR and Eleanor Roosevelt made on the nation as President and First Lady.
I loved learning about the lives of women who began working outside the home for the first time because they were so needed during the war.
I loved her analysis at the end of the book outlining FDR's much needed and insightful leadership and Eleanor's work promoting real democracy throughout America.
An excellent, very well researched and written account of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt in the years leading up to WWII and follows through to their deaths.
Goodwin concentrates on life in the US during these years, touching on subjects like civil rights, Japanese internment, worker's rights, and women in the workplace.
Eleanor was a hardworking advocate of the people working toward human rights at home and throughout the world.
Although they had much love for each other, they were separate, individual people whose work seemed to compliment each other.
I feel like I have had a very personal peek into the lives of Franklin and Eleanor.
No Ordinary Time provides an intimate view of Franklin and Eleanor’s unique relationship, one more of a working partnership than a traditional marriage.
First was Franklin’s affair with Eleanor’s assistant, Lucy Mercer which ended any notion of traditional marriage and hurt Eleanor deeply but freed her to be her own person and to work on the social issues she cared so much about.
Goodwin presents the strong influence of women on FDR, his self-centered mother Sara, his work partner Eleanor, his close companion and de facto wife Missy LeHand, his flirty companion Princess Martha, his compliant daughter Anna and of course, his lover Lucy Mercer Rutherfurd.
I now enjoy history when presented in this way.I started to read Goodwin's Team of Rivals about Lincoln after seeing the film Lincoln.
I cannot say that Goodwin did not get around to developing those relationships, only that she did it so slowly as to lose my interest.I had her book about the Roosevelts on my reading list for some time.
It develops the relationships in Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt's lives that contributed to their views and leadership styles.I also found the similarities between pre-WWII US and today striking.
In this book, Goodwin focuses on the American home front during WWII and some of the most visible, unique personalities who shaped the times, including, of course, FDR and Eleanor Roosevelt.
You only have to read Goodwin's book to realize how wrong that view is.
Goodwin's portrait of FDR and Eleanor and their marriage is nothing short of fascinating.
Eleanor's struggle to come into her own, and lasting mark on the American social and political landscape is a true inspiration, and probably a type for the history of the American character as well.
Goodwin's depiction of the Roosevelt's during WWII takes on a very narrow timeline that unfolds week by week.
Her knowledge of the subject becomes clear in her attention to detail.
It is not nearly a chronological history, it is more of a personal portrait which explores the emotions, motivations, and fears of America's greatest president, and those around him.History has afforded us perspective that the subjects of the book lacked.
One must keep that in mind when reading this book; historical decisions and precedents were not so clear cut at the time.
Within that context, the story of the Roosevelts is much more spectacular.
Excellent history of the Home Front during WWII. And an excellent story of the Roosevelts.
What it says on the tin – 800 pages on Eleanor and Franklin, personal and political, from 1940-1945.
The thing that's good about it is the same thing that's frustrating: this is a book about their marriage, their friends, the war, race relations, the rise of organized labor, the new women's workforce, etc.
Her Team of Rivals did better, there.Also, I was quite put off by the handling of Franklin's disability.
Yet again I'm confronted with a scholar who seems to possess a keen eye for the rhetorical shades of meaning in history, except where it comes to disability, where it's all shallow platitudes.
I'm fascinated by the changing social attitudes and conditions during World War II in the United States.
I'm also captivated by the personalities of both Franklin Roosevelt and his wife Eleanor and so I was a happy camper while reading this book.
Both realized that the United States could not emerge from the war if it was a unified cooperative nation and both Roosevelts worked for this common purpose.
One of the most fascinating parts of the book is Goodwin's description of the White House as "a small, intimate hotel" during the war years, housing the family, friends, staff members (Missy LeHand), and foreign visitors (Winston Churchill).
I was reminded of the book because it is the featured review on my PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for today.
Below is the review from the calendar:____________American heroes such as Franklin Delano Roosevelt can be so lionized that they cease to resemble living, fallible human beings.
Doris Kearns Goodwin doesn’t make that mistake in this incisive portrait of an unlikely marriage conducted on the stage of world politics.
NO ORDINARY TIME: FRANKLIN AND ELEANOR ROOSEVELT: THE HOME FRONT IN WORLD WAR II
, by Doris Kearns Goodwin (1994; Touchstone, 1995)
Goodwin is a good historian and would mix the personal lives of the Roosevelts with the political atmosphere of the times.
I was just one year old when it started and six years old when it ended but because my father was in the navy from 1942 to 1945 I do have memories of the time.
When I was just about a third of the way through I knew it was a book I wanted to own and bought my own copy so I could underline and dog ear the pages.
There are so many interesting antedotes and facts I wanted to have them at my disposal.
I love Doris Kearns Goodwin. This is by far the very best book (in my opinion) on what it was like to live here in The States during the Second World War. She describes the relationship between Franklin & Eleanor in human terms; their incredible political partnership existing within the tragedy of their lonely, asexual marriage, Eleanor's female attachments and Franklin's renewed relationship with Lucy Mercer. The descriptions of Winston Churchill's visits to the White House and his wanderings nude during the night are just hilarious....
What a magificent book! Kudos to the author. Extremely well-written. Absolutely loved it and would recomend it to all.
Wow, I really knew/know nothing about the Roosevelt's, both as people and as political figures. This only a little bit scratched the surface for me, but I am now totally on the Eleanor Roosevelt bandwagon.
There are many great insights of Winston Churchill and a few of Stalin.Aside from history and politics the book is very interesting in human relations, husband-wife relations, community involvement and caring about others.
Having heard Ms. Goodwin speak at a Davis County event, I'd like to read her personal biography,"Wait Till Next Year" and "Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream." Perhaps I'll come to think better of him.
At her Davis Reads talk she recounted the experience similarly to her Dartmouth 1998 commencement address, "...the president discovered that I had been actively involved in the anti-Vietnam War movement and had written an article entitled, 'How to Dump Lyndon Johnson'.
The great, sweeping saga of that time in history is there, but so are myriad small, well-chosen details that make FDR and Eleanor real living, breathing human beings.Doris Kearns Goodwin is a fabulous writer.
She has the narrative gifts of a novelist, the academic chops of a great history professor, and is insightful and serious without being stuffy.
She's interested in the human side of history.
I love that about her, since that's what I'm interested in, too.
I feel like I know Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt personally now, and have a much better understanding of both their characters and the character of that time period.
I admire all of the research that must have been done to write this book, but for me that is not enough; the narrative, even of non-fiction books, must be compelling and this was not.
I actually found much of the book to be laborious to read, boring, frankly, for significant stretches, and I never really developed a good feel for, or sense of, FDR.
That being said, her rendering of Churchill and his friendship with FDR, plus her descriptions of Missy Lehand and her relationship with the president were terrific.
To me this book ranks between two and three stars, though I believe it leans toward two.
What a beautiful book. The amount of time and effort it must have taken to do this research is mindboggling. 122 pages of notes and bibliography of sources, with fine font and tightly spaced. With all this information Goodwin is able to weave a narrative of incredible clarity. Her grasp of the language and her uncanny ability to formulate the information into a chronological order is incredible. Goodwin is THE premier historian.
Goodwin does an excellent job illuminating America domestically and in the world during the war years. She also opens up the public and personal lives of Franklin and Eleanor - key players in shaping so many of the policies that were important at the time and continue to resonate today. The book is densely detailed but never bogs down.
If you like getting your news from People Magazine, you will enjoy getting your history from this book. Filled with gossip and distracting tidbits that will make you forget all the greatness FDR and Eleanor Rossevelt accomplished.
Makes you wonder at times if Eleanor Roosevelt was more important and more insightful than FDR.
