https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431203.The_Fires_of_Spring
Probably my favorite Michener novel yet (I've read about 5, I think).
It's about his loves and losses, affairs of hormonal passion, defeat and disappointment on top of one another and alway this persistent but not necessarily superhuman ability to rise above his circumstance.
He has an average heart with dreams that are too big for his circumstances, just like any of us.
I could see Michener's heart here, very clearly.
It's not a show-stopping monologue but a conversation that I'm sure many author has either had with an editor/publisher or has dreamed of having.
I loved this book.
Money, position, fame, many loves, revenge are all of little consequence, and when the tickets are collected at the end of the ride they are tossed into the bin marked FAILURE.But if a man happens to find himself—if he knows what he can be depended upon to do, the limits of his courage, the positions from which he will no longer retreat, the degree to which he can surrender his inner life to some woman, the secret reservoirs of his determination, the extent of his dedication, the depth of his feeling for beauty, his honest and unpostured goals—then he has found a mansion which he can inhabit with dignity all the days of his life."—The Fires of Spring, P.
Michener is a coming-of-age story of a poor kid, raised initially by his 'evil' aunt in the United States of America, and set in the early times of the twentieth century (1910s-30s).
But, we do come to know a bit of life in the Americas in the early part of the previous century.
Since I come from the East (South Asia), I could not connect directly to much of the things, due to the cultural differences, and due to my differing views about "discovering oneself", which probably is the reason that I could not enjoy the book as much.
To say that Michener's first novel is unreadable goes a bit too far.
The problem is, rather, that everything that happens in the plot is utterly banal and boring.
The novel is semi-autobiographical; I suppose that it may even be a story that Michener felt he must tell (or that he adhered too closely to the advice, "Write what you know").
Worse, these banal things keep merely happening; there is nothing at all reflexive or enlightening about them, or that gives any sort of commentary on life more broadly considered.
This book started as a 5 star book, then became 4 stars, then 3 stars, then 2 stars, then 1 star. Throughout the book, the writer's talent was amazing. Initially I thought this book was nobel-prize worthy, but then it just got worse and worse and worse and worse! The talent was still there, the book just became unpleasant to read. I think it should be split into 4 novellas and that noone should read past the 2nd novella, or that everything past the 2nd one (everything after Dedham) needs to have some scenes changed here and there.
The first Michener novel I ever read - over 30 years since I picked up my sister's paperback copy. Found a hardback edition online. An opportunity to relive this great coming-of-age story, which hooked me into Dostoevsky and several other classic authors whose works are discussed and quoted in the book. A big influence on my life at the time.
I enjoyed it. Early Michener, filled with his usual philosophical observations and anticipatory exclamations. It was before he wrote the research-oriented books, and I'm sure it's semi-autobiographical. In any event, he is so good at describing where he is that it does give the reader a great sense of life in the U.S. circa 1920-1934.
It's the first James Michener book I've read and one of the best books I've ever read. I have mixed feelings about the end, about the girl David ends up with, but I mostly loved the story and the writing, which is so alive.
In my list of top ten books. I read it as a youth and it moulded my life and gave me understand myself better - because in many ways I am like Harper.I reread it recently and I still felt it's beautiful sting.
One of my favorite books. Have read, and re-read many times. Michener draws me in without fanfare or drama.
Still one of my favorite books. This novel was the launching pad of my reading all the books I read as a youth and that I emerald even to this day.
I love Michener. Whether it's something he wrote in the '60s or in the '90s, he always engages me with his storytelling abilities.
Only Michener book I truly adored. I really liked seeing the world through the eyes of the protagonist. I recommend this one.
I read this book in High School and then again a few years ago. I really enjoyed it, both times. It was actually one of the only books I fully read in High School.
Finally finished this…only took me three years!!I actually liked this quite a bit, but I felt that young Michener was a little draconian in his declarations.
Shame on me for not springing for a different copy with a better cover - but pretty sure I got this for a dollar.So, ultimately, this book got a 3 star mark, borderline 2, because of the thesis at the end.
What I gathered out of the last thirty pages with David's ultimate decision to write and Marcia belief in him is not a personal struggle, but a belief that if you don't write, paint or make music you've given up.
Coming of ageThough not on the level of some of his later work, this was a good coming of age story to which I could relate. The characters were interesting and I wanted to keep reading until the end
The best MichenerIn my opinion it is the best because it speaks of Aspects of America in stress fulled times and with a real appreciation of small people coping and identifies with mental and physical ordeals..
His first published novel. No one writes like Michener. Wonderful.
Well written, but it did not go anywhere for me. Made as far as page 123.
First coming of age novel I remember reading.
Vivid pictures of human natureI choose this rating because, and in all his writings, Michener entertains and educates in a seamless flow of words.
Good read and typical MichenerMichener gives us a very good coming of age story. His characterization is strong for his protagonist and adequate for the rest.
I think Michener could have been a touch more selective or focused with this novel.I also felt that Michener elevated too many elements of the story - characters and incidents - to the level of highest importance, ultimately weakening the book.
The literary flourishes used to draw attention to the major themes of the book are also distracting, and seem the work of a young writer who has not yet learned the gift of understatement (this was only Michener's second book and his first novel).Nonetheless, Michener is a good storyteller, and the tale kept me reasonably attentive through all five hundred pages.
Published in 1949, this was Michener's second book and first novel ( Tales of the South Pacific  was actually a collection of connected stories, and was the first winner of the "Pulitzer Prize For Fiction," which until then had been known as the "Pulitzer Prize For the Novel") and is largely autobiographical.A 'bildungsroman' is defined as "a type of novel concerned with the education, development, and maturing of a young protagonist" and "a novel concerned with a person's formative years" -  Th
Published in 1949, this was Michener's second book and first novel (
was certainly Michener's 'bildungsroman' - while Michener was raised in a large foster-family rather than the poorhouse, it's obvious that many of the experiences attributed to David Harper in this novel were probably Michener's.
wasn't publishable, and that Michener should look for another like of work (he was actually still employed as a textbook editor at Macmillan)!The novel begins just after the first World War, and as it closes, in the midst of the Great Depression, the show of war is once again cast.
A surprisingly philosophical coming-of-age story, that made me mark passages in a book for the first time in ages.
Much of the book is a pretty standard tale of a kid growing up, making mistakes, trying to find himself.
At several points, I had to stop reading and just think about my own life, which really doesn't happen often with my normal reading choices.
After finishing, I now feel inspired to read some classics, and maybe try to do some writing myself.
I don't think it was done in a mean-spirited way, it's just a product of its times..)
This is early Michener -- a coming-of-age novel about a boy growing up in the Midwest during the Depression.
My father often told me that it was the closest description he ever read of what life was like during that time.
Dad's early childhood was in Oconto, Wisconsin.
I'm enjoying the story, but don't really see what Dad must have seen.
The book seems to be at least semi-autobiographical with a story that does not match at all what I think my father's experience was like.
Drawn to the book by the quote (gender neutralized from he to they): 'For this is the journey that humans make: to find themselves.
If they fail in this, it doesn’t matter much else they find.
But If a person happens to find oneself- if they knows what the can be depended upon to do, the limits of courage, the positions from which they will no longer retreat, the degree to which they can surrender their inner life to someone, the secret reservoirs of their determination, the extent of their dedication, the depth of their feelings for beauty, their honest and un-postured goals-then they have found a mansion which they can inhabit with dignity all the days of their life"James A.
Michener - The Fires of Spring
"The Fires of Spring" is Michener's second book: a somewhat autobiographical bildungsroman.
I like Michener's personal books very much: I call them personal because they follow specific people and the main character is the author's alter ego...
as opposed to his cultural or place books, that follow a whole country or a whole people.
This book is a real page turner.
I love that Michener is not an ideological writer: he writes about real people undergoing the messiness of real life.
And of course Michener learned to write before TV became the national educator, so his books are not TV plots.
Read this on a friend's recommendation, though I was admittedly put off by the age of the book.
I think as a narrative, it holds up extremely well over time.
I didn't dwell too much on the qualities of style, characterization, etc.
Because it seemed beside the point.
I think this was only his second novel, so I guess maybe he was still warming up to his full blown History of America quest.
I would recommend it as a quality "coming of age" read, especially for male readers.
Do men read?
One of Michener's early novels, and for all it's flaws it's really astonishingly good. You don't really find stories like this any more.It's the story of a young man who grows up essentially an orphan, not too long after the turn of (19th) century. You could call it a coming-of-age novel, and it is, but that doesn't really begin to capture the energy and vitality of the characters.As well as a good read, it's a pretty insightful portrait of an America that no longer exists. And that is probably for the best, yet the portait is fascinating all the same.
