https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/932370.Lee
Still, I would chuckle at myself during those few moments where the point attempted to be made by the author had relatively no impact on my sense of “feeling” during those specific passages.The Battles of the War Between the States are well covered in this abridged version, but this is a book (again) about General Robert E.
Following the conclusion of the American War Between the States, General Lee used his notoriety (what we today would call “celebrity”) to bring people together and encouraged all Americans to work toward a more perfect union of the nation.
Having been made Quartermaster General of the Federal army, Meigs led the way to appropriation of the Lee estate, its conversion to a cemetery for Union dead, and ultimately the establishment of the Arlington National Cemetery on the site.
His care for the common soldier (even captured Federals) is oft quoted; the state of Union prisoners in the South goes unmentioned (I am being a bit unfair here, as Lee had nothing to do with the administration of POW camps, but you get the point).Lee was most emphatically not a brilliant field marshal, all the Southern mysticism surrounding the man notwithstanding.
Well written, definitive portrait of Lee.
Loved it. They don't come better than Robert Lee.
Read a long time ago. It was a good book but is now somewhat dated. The deification of Robert E. Lee after the Civil War covered up mistakes. He remains one of the greatest generals in US history but he did have flaws, in spite of what Jubal Early said. See this; https://www.smithsonianmag.com/histor...
Other reviewers have commented on Freeman's ability to excuse Lee's mistakes, such as Pickett's charge or Grant slipping away after Spotsylvania, as the result of his subordinates' mistakes.
Freeman neglects all of this.The reason it rates four stars is because there are passages that reach the sublime: the description of Gettysburg, for instance, even when it ignores Lee's mistakes, is absolutely magnificent for its treatment of the men who went in in that last terrible charge under George Pickett.
Granting one side the excuse of not having absolute control, but expecting the other to do so, is a fairly basic piece of bias, and the book echoes with this kind of thing.
A truly wonderful book for the great general of the Confederates. A lot of details of all the famous battles and a lot of things about his personal life as well. A must read for all the friends of the American civil war or the admirers of this great personality. I am not American, but i love history and this is a piece of history everybody owns to know.
Wanted to read this after visiting Monument Avenue in Richmond, VA for the first time in many years. Absolutely beautiful sculptures I wanted to see again before they get demolished (the Jeb Stuart in particular looks royal on sunny days) and replaced with local 'art.' Art in apostrophes because outside of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts (which has an excellent Napoleon exhibit right now) my experience at other venues has been things like monkeys carved into soap and bicycle wheels bent into the shape of an engorged benis.
One of the best histories of the civil war I've read. Emphasizes the importance of the disparity between the strength of north and south, and its effect on strategy.Outstanding portrait of R.E. Lee's character, especially in the section after the war and conclusion.Five star rating!
Lee. A truly good biography will stir the reader's emotions at the end by making him miss the person studied after he is gone, and so it is with this book.
Lee's military prowess during the Civil War will be well known to most people who pick up this book (those who are not should start elsewhere; I would recommend Shelby Foote if you can spare the time).
This book exemplifies why biographies are worth reading: they bring to life virtues we wish to inculcate into the readers.
Finished reading "Lee" by Douglas Southall Freeman.
Lee. It was interesting to me to see some of the key moments of the Civil War from the Southern perspective.
Strangely, most of the history books I've read on the subject--even if written by Southerners--seemed to key in on the North's point of view.I was also very interested in the events in Lee's life after the war, a time that is rarely discussed.
That was a harsh time in US history and I can only imagine how much smoother it could have gone had Lincoln lived to oversee it.
Lee embodied everything that was good about the South.
The people of the South admired him for the good man he was.This book is an abridgment of the four volume series.
It is very well written and gives a detailed account of all of the battles of the Civil War the army of Northern Virginia participated in.
It is sometimes hard to follow because of the detail but the immersion gives you a feel for the brilliance of the man who led the army.
Robert E Lee was a good man in the best sense.
I read this one for a book club, and I might not have gotten through it otherwise. There are a lot of battle specifics (this regiment flanked here, that regiment moved up to fill the gap, etc.). Furthermore, I don't usually read about the Civil War because it's heartbreaking any way you look at it. However, I'm glad I read it as it gave a very particular perspective. There were times reading it when I just had to stop in sadness at the massive amount of death upon death.
An informative book that demonstrates why Lee is so highly regarded as a General even though he didn't attain victory. the exploration of his pre and post civil war lives give insights into why he left the US Army to fight for Virginia. The book veers into hagiography at times but is still worth reading.
A really good read, but too many battle details for my taste.
So refreshing to read a historical book written before the age of political correctness. I Tried to read Clouds of Glory by Michael Korda but couldn't stomach that one.
An irritatingly exhaustive bore. This was the abridged version and I can’t imagine how dull the full version is. Avoid!
Jag är benägen att hålla med Freeman på den punkten även om man får hålla i minnet han älskar Lee. Boken handlar mer om generalen under inbördeskriget än mannen Lee. Det tidiga livet är skissartat samtidigt som erfarenheterna från kriget i Mexico får ganska stort utrymme.
Själva kriget beskrivs ur ett "fog of war" perspektiv, läsaren får inte veta mer än Lee och man får en bra bild av de beslut som Lee var tvungen att fatta under osäkerhet.
Mellan raderna, och bitvis klart uttalat, överför Freeman karaktären hos Lee till sydstaterna och jag kan inte undfly känslan att boken är ett slag för "The Dixie cause".
The author's father was in the Confederate Army so it is likely he has a certain bias.
It is certainly a good overview of the significant battles of the war (the 4-volume would be more for an historian of the war).
This is a good look at the war from the Confederate point of view.
It certainly seems likely that this war of attrition had no other possible outcome.
Lee fought against amazing odds, remaining considerate to his peers and soldiers the whole time.For a Civil War reader, this is a good book to be introduced to Lee.
It was the best profile of Gen Robert E.
Lee's life time spans from America's founding fathers to the start of the concept of Modern America.
Last, Lee did help end the American Civil War. He could have kept fighting in a horrible Guerrilla warfare that would have ruined the chances of a United America.
He did tell the Confederate Army to stop fighting and become "good citizens".
Thank God he did try to make the transition a good one.
He did not start the Civil War but I believe he did end it.
For that, I say God Bless Robert E.
Lee is truly the foremost Greek tragic hero in American history. Freeman certainly does justice to the person of Robert E. Lee without bogging you down into the details of battle plans and tactics that so many war books and biographies are guilty of. It was wonderfully researched and written, but is about 1200 pages all told.
An interesting story and I am a fan of RE Lee but I fail to see why Freeman got the Pulitzer for this work. Have our expectations changed that much since the 1950's? Freeman may be a good historian but the style feels dated and in many cases confusing.
A very good biography of Robert E. Lee. His life after the Civil War did not follow the path that many other military men of the period took. His life was shaped by his belief that the states were dominant over the federal government.
An excellent single volume about Lee. Written with a very pro-Southern slant but that is to be expected from a book that was published in 1935 by an author from Richmond. This book does not touch on slavery but is more focused on Lee's performance as the greatest Southern General in the Civil War.
More readable than I expected, despite the copious amounts of detail. Kind of wish I had tackled the full four-volume version first, though. This abridgement felt simultaneously too intricate and too rushed, if such a thing is possible.
No one can deny the intelligence and scholasticism of this abridgment of four volumes, but holy latent racism of the Southern gentleman, Batman! And there's more than a whiff of eugenics theory as well in the closing chapter.
I read the short version. A great boook but also a bit of hero worship - fortunatley the hero was worthy of respect.
Great book for an abridgement. I was able to find the full set on eBay, and plan on re-reading all four volumes at some point in the future.
The author published 4 volumes which are now out of print.
A great biography that made RL Lee accessible, sympathetic and very human. The best biography of Robert E. Lee.
