https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34506.The_Light_Fantastic
Reading Sir Terry Pratchett’s Discworld series makes me smile.Three years after Terry Pratchett published The Color of Magic, the first Discworld book, he published the second, The Light Fantastic, having decided convincingly that this was a worthwhile project.Though the action in The Light Fantastic takes over immediately following the events in the first book, Rincewind has fallen off of the edge of the world, this novel seems to gather momentum from a good but somewhat shaky start and proceed with a comic authority.
And even if I'll mainly be focused on folks I haven't seen yet, anyway, I'm still enjoying what may as well be an overview primer of the whole Discworld universe.That being said, I think Rincewind is given a bad rap in the series.
:)Plotwise, I think it's well up to the standards of the rest of the series and while Rincewind falls away in people's favor, *cry* He'll always have a very special place in my heart.And by the way, that sword is definitely smarter than him.
I adore Terry Pratchett. I don't know how to elaborate on that so I'll just share some of my favorite moments in Light Fantastic.Snarky social commentary: She is there, down below the mines and sea ooze and fake fossil bones put there by a Creator with nothing better to do than upset archaeologists and give them silly ideas. Not for the first time she reflected that there were many drawbacks to being a swordswoman, not the least of which was that men didn't take you seriously until you'd actuall
I don't know how to elaborate on that so I'll just share some of my favorite moments in Light Fantastic.Snarky social commentary:
"She's not bad," said Twoflower.
The Luggage remains my favorite:
The Luggage said nothing."Look he's not my responsibility," said Rincewind.
"Let's be absolutely clear about that."The Luggage said nothing, but louder this time.
"Um," said Twoflower.
I might briefly have shipped Rincewind and Twoflower in this moment:
(Rincewind, about Twoflower) He just looks at things, but nothing he looks at is ever the same again.
En la luz fantástica continuaremos la historia de Rincewind y Dosflores (Two-flo-wers) esta pareja dispareja que ha desarrollado una especie de amistad gracias a todas sus aventuras y cuya travesía por el Disco aun no termina, y que seria de ellos sin el fiel Equipaje el mejor de los artilugios mágicos de todos los tiempos, ademas, esta vez conoceremos a Cohen el bárbaro, el guerrero mas famoso del disco, que ya tiene 87 años y esta sufriendo problemas de espalda, lo que no le impide realizar proezas, solo las hace mas graciosas.En fin, esta libro me gusto mucho, me saco varias risas y me dejo con ganas de leer mas del Mundodisco, me alegra haberle dado otra oportunidad a la saga, y creo que si habéis leído El color de la magia, debes leer este libro, quien sabe quizás quedes 
Put two of my favourite Discworld characters,the Luggage and Death, into the same book and I am obviously going to be happy! This was a reread of this book which I read the first time many years ago. Pratchett obviously improved his writing as the series progressed and his books became more sophisticated, but these early works are still a delight. I love the humour, the characters, the story and the sheer imagination of the man.The world is poorer without him but thank goodness he left us so many books to enjoy.
The Light Fantastic (Discworld #2), Terry PratchettThe Light Fantastic is a comic fantasy novel by Terry Pratchett, the second of the Discworld series.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ششم ماه می سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: مجموعه جهان صفحه - کتاب 02 - نور حیرت انگیز؛ نویسنده: سر تری پرتچت (پراچت)؛ مترجم: آرزو احمی؛ تهران، ویدا، 1392؛ در 290 ص؛ شابک: 9789646807860؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 مادامه کتاب نخست است از سری جهان صفحهاین مجموعه بیش از چهل رمان است که در زمینهٔ خیالپردازی و طنز و هزل هستند؛ و تقریباً هر چیزی را زیر این آسمان و تابش خورشید، به‌ سخره گرفته‌ اند.
It also didn't help Rincewind's situation and mood when he found out that there's a certain prophecy about him.I'm not a big reader when it comes to books with apocalypse in it looming just around the corner.
*cough*Characterizations [humans, fantastical creatures and things alike]: I have a very special place in my heart for nearly all the people and creatures in the book.
Definitely not when they each have their own unique quirky personality.Rincewind shows even more of his cynicism and it didn't exactly help his ill bedside manners being partnered with the impossibly, insufferably optimistic Twoflower."I expect everything will turn out quite all right in the end," said Twoflower.Rincewind looked at him.
However, the most magical book on the entire Dicworld (the Octavo) can't let Rincewind die so magic saves them.From there, they continue their journey through odd landscapes (a very peculiar forest for example) and meet new people (like Cohen, a parody of Conan the Barbarian).Oh, and to make matters more interesting, we then find out that the Discworld is about to be destroyed unless the eight spells of the Octavo are being recited in time.
I really liked the little guy with his right-action-at-the-right-time interventions and "comments" on certain matters.I marked a few lines and passages in this book again but am leaving you with this, one of my favourites:"Inside every sane person there's a madman struggling to get out.
I'm glad I finally took the time to find out that these two books, The Colour of Magic and The Light Fantastic, jointly comprise the first tale in the series, and that they were definitely worth reading.The Diskworld books are essentially satire of the high fantasy genre, or at least that's the foundation upon which everything else is built.
While it's nice to see Pratchett's considerable imagination and humor on display as we go from situation to situation, the first book reads like an extended doodle with little plot and a whole "gods playing games with mortals" subtext that's entirely dropped in the next book.
Since this is number two in series order, I am getting a feel for where the author was at the point in time it was written.
Rincewind, the Luggage, the Druid sacrifice girl, and the over the hill barbarian fighter are characters that will live with me long after this series is done.This story has more of a quest feel to it than the last one did.
The story progresses through one mishap after another as the author continues to add characters and build his world.
I think it gives a clear picture of where the author is at in a point in time and what his conception of this world and these characters is and is becoming.
Executive Summary: I enjoyed this one a lot more than The Color of Magic, and it made me glad I read that book first rather than starting with one of the later in the series.
Full Review A moment of silence for the passing of a great man.It's a shame it took the passing of Terry Pratchett for me to give this series a second chance.
I've had numerous people tell me how much I'd like it.
It was recommended again to me when I said I was in a funk and wanted something light and fun just a few days b
Executive Summary: I enjoyed this one a lot more than The Color of Magic, and it made me glad I read that book first rather than starting with one of the later in the series.
I know this series is more like a loose collection of stories set in the same world, but I still want to read it in the order it came out.
I may have to pace myself though as there will sadly only be one more to come.I can't say you should be stubborn like I am, and read in publication order.
3.5-4*Aunque esta historia empieza dónde lo dejó su primera parte (El Color de la Magia), me ha parecido mucho mejor, menos caótica y más entrañable. Imposible no reírse con los guiños a los cuentos infantiles, Conan (o Cohen xD) el Bárbaro y con las aventuras de Rincewind y Dosflores.Al final del libro hasta me he dado cuenta del cariño que les he cogido a este par de desastrillos.. (:Gracias Pratchett por el buen rato!
This quote from Death regarding the rampant stupidity of the Star cultists could easily have come from a much later book:NOT LIKE THIS.
I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THIS DEATH-OF-THE-MIND.All-in-all, it's the first inklings of the strong character work, social commentary and razor sharp humor that have made Pratchett a household name.Very glad to revise my rating of this book to 5 stars and now I've very much looking forward to Equal Rites and Sourcery, neither of which I've reread before.
I liked this one even more than the first book of the series! I thought it was hilarious, and I found the storyline easier to follow. There were a couple times where I was a bit confused, but I really enjoyed it and thought it was funny and exciting, with a thrilling ending.
So, that's how Rincewind ended up with the Luggage!
Now I know.There is no doubt that Terry Pratchett was a master at snarky humor and fantastic world building.
Yet, it takes me forever to get through some his books because his adventures often end up going off in tangents...and I'm not drawn into the Discworld universe enough to necessarily want to follow those side-stories that may or may not become relevant in a later book.At the moment, all those tangents are just padding out the book for me - when mostly I just want to get on with the story.So, why the Druids?
Laurel and Hardy. Riggs and Murtaugh. Oscar and Felix. And continuing the grand tradition, the Discworld's own Rincewind and Twoflower. This time the story centers around the Octavo and the 8th spell lodged in Rincewind's head as Discworld plunges towards a fiery red star that may spell doom for the entire planet. Lovecraftian influences are prominent in the early and late goings, although most of the book is a lighthearted slapstick parody of the fantasy genre. The story often appears directionless and sags in the middle like an aging businessman but overall it's a quick and entertaining read.
What can you say about a Discworld novel? They are British, they are silly, and they are hilarious. This isn't Tolkien or Martin, but when you are laughing this hard and this often, you won't really care.
Sería un 3,75 o cerca del 4, no lo tengo del todo claro.Esta es la continuación de El color de la magia, el primer volumen de la saga Mundodisco, siendo la única novela de la saga que continua directamente con los sucesos del libro anterior.En este libro, tras salvarse de caer por el borde del mundo; Dosflores, Rincewind y el querido equipaje vuelven a meterse en muchos más líos. Una estrella roja amenaza la vida de la gran tortuga ATuin, y la Universidad Invisible (la de los magos) está tratand
Uno de ellos como sabemos desde el primer libro lo tiene Rincewind en su cabeza, por ello, junto a un guerrero legendario del disco llamado Cohen y una virgen que iba a ser sacrificada por druidas llamada Bethan; trataran de lidiar con los viejos profesores de la Universidad Invisible.Al igual que en la primera parte, me lo he pasado muy bien, o incluso mejor, dado que el libro tiene mayor coherencia narrativa y ya estamos acostumbrados al mundo.
Los personajes vuelven a ser algo maravilloso y desternillante; y también os encontraréis en esta ocasión con árboles parlantes, casas de chocolate, trolls amigables, guerreros legendarios y magia, mucha magia.
The important thing about having lots of things to remember is that you've got to go somewhere afterwards where you can remember them, you see? You've got to stop. You haven't really been anywhere until you've got back home."  The Discworld is a Disc sitting on the backs of four elephants, standing on the shell of a giant turtle that is slowly swimming it's way through Space...And as befits a world so ridiculous, it is filled with an array of equally ridiculous and loveable characters, includi
The important thing about having lots of things to remember is that you've got to go somewhere afterwards where you can remember them, you see?
You've got to stop.
The Discworld is a Disc sitting on the backs of four elephants, standing on the shell of a giant turtle that is slowly swimming it's way through Space...And as befits a world so ridiculous, it is filled with an array of equally ridiculous and loveable characters, including a piece of travelling Luggage with lots of tiny legs and an intimidating appetite.
"In a distant forest a wolf howled, felt embarrassed when no one joined in, and stopped."
1.5 to a very grudging 2 stars. Mostly slogged and skimmed my way through this second Discworld installment. Did not smile, chuckle or laugh at anything, found everyone tedious, with the exception of Twoflower and Luggage; I am inordinately fond of Luggage, who remains the standout for me(view spoiler)[, though I was deeply disappointed that Luggage chose to stick with Rincewind at the end (hide spoiler)]. I was not fond of any other characters or anything else in the story. Which was far, far, too long.
Не дивно, що чарівники не мають сексуальних розваг!Ринсвід, звісно, знав, що таке оргазми, кілька разів і сам їх пережив, траплялося, що навіть не наодинці, та ніщо з його життєвого досвіду не можна було порівняти з тим напруженим, пристрасним моментом, коли кожен нерв у його тілі заструменів біло-блакитними іскрами, і груба магічна сила порснула з кінчиків його пальців.
Та найбільше Ринсвінда непокоїть той факт, що він і заклинання, яке засіло в закамарках його свідомості, якось причетні до катаклізма, і саме недолугий чарівник має стати тим, хто врятує Диск від неминучої загибелі.
Video reviewFeatured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017So good it's unfair - there's a joke every three words and it's still thrilling, and occasionally heartbreaking. Surprinsingly better than The Colour of Magic.
It seems/feels to me Mr. Pratchett hit his stride and had more fun writing this one (I could be wrong)...
Twoflower, gotta love him :)Cohen and Bethan were fun to know, wish they would have had a bigger part though.
Cohen was pretty spry for his age and I loved his loyalty to the gang.The ending was better in this one but it felt a little anticlimatic to me, didn't feel the tension in some parts even though it was well written.
Would recommend, another fun adventure from Mr. Pratchett.
This is not for me anymore.
15 years ago I read the first handful of Discworld books and liked them well enough.
But even then this type of comedic writing wasn't really my cup of tea.
Now it definitely isn't.
Too little plot, too absurd.
Cohen was a great character.The idea behind the Discworld is a great one and I heard good things about the later books.
One of them is one my shelf and I will have a go at it later this year.
Who knows, I might like it better.
If you read The Color of Magic, you most probably got this book as the the one preceding it (the aforementioned The Color of Magic) ended with Rincewind falling off the edge of the Discworld....
I enjoy Sir Terry's work and while I'd probably disagree with him across the board on spiritual matters, I think I'd like him.I think that most anyone with an open mind (and maybe are sure what they themselves actually believe and realize that this is that arcane "thing" called "humor")can enjoy the Discworld books.
She was indeed very fine, but my personal favorite was the bit where the Stonehenge-type astronomical ritual unexpectedly develops a glitch.
"The Spiral Chant doesn't work on concentric circles!"And, while we're on rocks, I also loved the trolls, harking back to their glory days in earlier geological eras.
"But now, let's face it, we're all getting a bit metamorphic..."Yes...
when you think about it, it must be rather frightening for a troll to realize that, oh my God, I'm already 500 million years old, where did all the time go?
This is reminded me of just how great Terry Pratchett is. His writing and humour is just fabulous and his characters are brilliant. However the plot of this novel is quite reminiscent of a wet tea towel. It doesn't hold a flame to The Colour of Magic and I'm quite glad that Pratchett gave up on the idea of doing sequels after this novel. It's overall very meh with a sprinkling of ugh.
Unseen University but not as you know it.With my awful and dreaded exercise regime continuing so too does my revisit to the early works of the Discworld thanks to the readings of Nigel Planer.Rincewind, last seen falling off of the disc has been saved from certain death once more thanks to spoilers that won't be mentioned and now must save the disc from a fiery death and evil wizards.The problem with going back to these early novels is that things arenlt as you remember them.
The pairing of Rincewind and Twoflower continue to grow dynamically and the development of the luggage as an actual character is fun to read.
I didn't think it could get better than the first one, but oh, it got monumentally better so. Pro tip: you're going to have to read the second one right after the first, because it really won't make sense otherwise. Full RTC.
I didn't really care for The Colour of Magic.
So I wasn't sure what to expect from The Light Fantastic, but I figured either it would be more of the same, or slightly better.
And thankfully, it was slightly better.
I like humor, and I even like bizarre randomness...
to a point.
I can't help but feel like this whole world is just centered around silliness for its own sake, and I like my humor to be a little more measured and intentional than that.
Maybe I'll adjust and adapt to it, because at this point I do intend to continue the series.
