https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/733916.A_Tale_from_Bali

Great resource if you are wanting to know more about the history of Bali. I read a history book first which helped. The writing style is a bit dated (mid 1930's) but otherwise a compelling read.
None of that is really important...it is the story of a Balinese man at the beginning of the 20th century...and every day life.
His yearning to take a second wife, his hope to become an important person in his village...it is also the story of a dancer and his relationship with his wife and the king of his regency...and the colonization of the island.
It is full of details and Balinese history that I was not familar with...so that was a big plus in reading the book.
Read if you live in Bali...or love Bali...or want to know more about the Balinese past.
Very good journey into old Bali. Gets you into the mindset of how the Balinese think and feel. Not a page turner but a great painting of a culture
I randomly picked up this book at a second hand bookstore - the binding was pretty and the description reminded me a little of the Pearl Buck novels I grew up reading. I actually enjoyed this book a lot - the story is well paced, the characters interesting and the historical context very compelling, in particular the climax with the battle scene.
Entitled "Love and Death in Bali" in the version I read, and read while in Bali, it was a fabulous tale which explains a lot of about Balinese customs and beliefs. The significance of their ceremonies was put into perspective and is a book I would recommend to travellers to Bali. A
Prior to reading this, I had no knowledge whatsoever of the history of Bali, or the mass suicide by members of the royal family. The book was written in 1937 and at times I found it boring, with too much detail. However, it didn't take long for me to get hooked on the fictional story of Pak and his family. I learned a lot in the process and it made me more curious about this island's history.
Bali is soooooo damn interesting. It is like in fairytales. This is the real alf leila w leila. Can't believe this novel was based on a true story! and spending a month on this exotic island and mingling with the locals and experiencing parts of what I was reading in the novel and experiencing the culture firsthand was FREAKING AWESOME and mind-blowing. This was not your typical "honeymoon trip" to Bali, this was an adventure and more like a cultural trip. Bali will always have a special place in my heart.
Set in Bali in 1906 the theme of this book centres around how steadfast you are in your values and beliefs. Are you brave enough to rethink them, resolute enough to risk everything or die for them? Given the fast-paced, always on world we live in this was a quote in the book that stood out for me: "The gods did not make men that they might work till they dropped, but that they might enjoy life and have time to keep the feast days and have enough rest"
The narrative is framed by 2 big set-pieces, the shipwreck of a Chinese ship and the Dutch military expedition mounted a few years later in part to punish the Balinese peasants who looted the ship, and their rulers who refused to pay compensation.
Throughout Baum does an excellent job as a fair and dispassionate observer, at pains to highlight both the true high-mindedness of most of the Dutch officials and the Balinese dignitaries.
As is in the nature of such an enterprise, characters are secondary and are mostly conceived as tools to show various types of Balinese men and women.
Unsurprisingly, Balinese culture comes out as heavily biased in favor of men.
Yes, it is written by a "non native", but I have to say that the descriptions of the Balinese lifestyle were VERY detailed!
I would say that the only way this could be done is if the writer spent a considerable amount of time living on location.When reading this book, keep in mind that it was written in an age that was not as fast paced as the 21st century.
That said, I do appreciate the great of care that the author has put in the description of the culture, landscapes, animals, usage of words (Balinese, Indonesian, Dutch), to name a few.
Another book I had bought to read during my trip to Bali and one I immensely enjoyed.
Baum really got into the heads of the Balinese cast and makes their way of thinking accessible to the western reader.
Except for somewhat (purposely?) bland Pak, I found the characters fascinating and very well-written.
A fascinating insight into life on Bali at the turn of the 20th century, long before tourism, and the events leading up to the puputan (mass suicide) of the court of Bandung ahead of the Dutch invasion in 1906.
A must-read for Bali tourists with an interest in history.
Beautifully written historical fiction that intelligently explores the differing perspectives leading to the mass suicide of the Balinese. I read this whilst I was in Bali which made the experience that much more enriching.
I read it in bali and that made the book a pure pleasure. History, scenery and traditions all came to live. I don't know if i would have enjoyed it in another context, since the style is somewhat outdated.
It is a very readable description of life in Bali at the turn of the 20th Century
Recommandé par un de mes chefs qui avait voyagé à Bali, un récit désorientant, violent et plein de subtilité.
For a brief review in Dutch, see the winter challenge 2013-2014 of the Netherlands & Flanders group, https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...
A nice fiction about the life of fictional characters in the early 20th century historical Bali.
