https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1110887.Jurgen
Jurgen has a lot of the elements that I loved about The Holy Grail and The Life of Brian : wild imagination, lampooning of shallow chivalry, religious intolerance or puritanical morals, frequent sexual puns, surprising depth and seriousness behind the comedy.Jurgen is a mythical figure, an archetype of humanity, on a quest of self discovery disguised as a hunt for the eternal feminine principle, embodied succesively in a childhood sweetheart, Guinevere, The Lady in the Lake, Helen of Troy, a wood nymph, a seductive vampire and finally - his termagant of a consort: In the old days lived a pawnbroker named Jurgen; but what his wife called him was very often much worse than that.
i took a break after the fourth and read a few different things while staying with friends, but now i'm back to longing for jurgen.
jurgen is the most famous of fifty books by cabell.
i hope that jurgen is not the only book i enjoy, and that its infamous trial only insured that i find cabell eventually ...
for jurgen continues to give me something new every time i read it, this magical book in the elaborate world it belongs to, the land of poictesme, and its neighbouring provinces.
The thing is… it’s a bit too long.So I’m going start out instead with a short flow-chart summary, which may save you from having to wade through the full review:- Are you interested in the history of the SF&F genre?
Quality aside, the court case surrounding Jurgen was the literary cause célèbre of its day, making it, and Cabell, icons for a generation.
Like I say, it’s not a gigantic book, and this is a very long review, so you’re probably better off just reading the novel right now.

“And what does that mean?”* For the devils, he found, esteemed polygamy, and ranked it above mere skill at torturing the damned, through a literal interpretation of the saying that it is better to marry than to burn.* When Jurgen asks if it’s possible to get divorced in Hell, the devils say no because “we trafficked in them for a while, but we found that all persons who obtained divorces through our industry promptly thanked Heaven…”I also found it amusing that Jurgen, a pawnbroker with a paunch, backs up his arguments with fake scholarly citations and uses the study of mathematics to seduce intelligent women.Even a well-educated reader will miss most of the allusions in Jurgen unless armed with a source such as David Rolfe’s Notes on Jurgen.
An utterly engrossing and hilarious satire of religion, politics and the mid-life crisis, James Cabell's "Jurgen" is like the unholy fusion of Jack Vance's witticism-filled adventure style and Kurt Vonnegut's black comedy social critiques, only written decades before either of the two started writing.
A pawnbroker and "monstrous clever fellow," Jurgen is sent on a fantastic adventure as a reward for being the first person in history to speak well of the Devil (in one of the novel's most amusing and quotable passages).
A mid-life crisis questioning the meaning of existence and the disappointment of maturity versus the hopes of youth; via an insane journey through time, space and myth.This really is a very complete story, it has a really good symmetry to it and great use of language.
Its quite lyrical and makes good use of repetition.
However this is no kids story, a LOT of this book is about sex although it's all written using innuendo and double entendre which adds to the humour of the story.
What follows is a loosely connected set of adventures, as Jurgen meets a centaur, is taken into a cave that acts as a magical portal to other worlds.
He meets Satan and God. And, in a gnostic twist, he meets the true creator of the world, the one who made it as it is, not as people want it to be.In the process, of course, JBC has plenty of time to mock various pieties.
When Jurgen meets him, he is trying to sort out an astronomical mangle that has the stars in the wrong places.Despite all its impieties, the book ends up in a very sentimental place--and a very modern one, too.
Cabell's most notorious novel because of its obscenity association.
He gets his wish, but does it all the same again and settles in the end content for the way things are.
Along the way we visit heaven and hell and most places in between along with a bunch of new and recurring characters from the Biography of Dom Manuel.
He constantly taxes the demons that torment him with the need for new and more painful tortures because he is not content with the way things are in hell.
This gives you just a flavor of Cabell's irony.
After learning that this book was the inspiration for at least two of Robert Heinlein's classics, I was curious to read it.
One of my quirks (I have many) is my inability to leave a book unfinished after I start it, so I decided to purchase the audiobook and force my way through it during my daily commute.
The audiobook was narrated by Robert Blumenfeld, who sounds like Sideshow Bob's brother, Niles from "Frasier." To my complete surprise, Mr. Blumenfeld's narration was just the thing to make this book come alive for me.
James Branch Cabell, a geneologist by trade, was one of the more risque "mainstream" writers of my grandmother's generation.
Because of his level of notoriety in the twenties and thirties, copies of his books often appear in used bookstores--sometimes as volumes in more than one collection of his works.
being representative of much of his work.
But, one may--or may not--note that fictitious places are mixed with actual ones, real events with pure, authorial invention.If you like the mixing of the real and the unreal in the phantastical combinations of Lovecraft or Borges, you may find Cabell a delight.
James Branch Cabell is very influenced by one o his masters Mark Twain, certainly the women who read this novel will not be very staisfied, especially femens.The only passage who entertained to me because as Ceravantes and Pliny said there are not a bad book, which has something good.
El único pasaje, porque como dicen Plinio y Cervantes no hay libro tan malo que no tenga nada bueno es el pasaje de los Filisteos, dónde ataca el puritanismo, porque la novela tiene mucho de crítica contra las religiones organizadas, sobre todo el cristianismo, lo que se ve en los pasajes de Jurgen por el Cielo, y el Infierno (Creo, que sin eso esta novela habría acabado en el olvido).
(Don't let the foregoing comment imply that Jurgen is sour and humorless; it's actually filled with wit and is, in its way, oddly uplifting.)Jurgen has never gone out of print, and you'll find no shortage of editions.
For example, in Robert Heinlein's books, you'll find several not-so-subtle tributes to Cabell and Jurgen.Opening line: "It is a tale which they narrate in Poictesme, saying: In the old days lived a pawnbroker named Jurgen; but what his wife called him was very often much worse than that.
This is a different sort of a read, where the book is a bag to hold amusing sentences and passages.
'How puny seems the race of man, in contrast with this mighty sea, which now spreads before me like, as So-and-so has very strikingly observed, a something or other under such and such conditions!' Then Jurgen shrugged.
And I cannot but consider the water is behaving rather futilely.'" Presently, the silly waters get deep - or deeply silly - as two characters from JBC's other books show up to debate the nature of their universe and its creator.
I wish Jurgen wrote a blog.
Jurgen es una sátira cargada de picaresca, humor y descaro ambientada en una época medieval muy sugerente y con un elenco de personajes muy especiales, liderado por un protagonista atípico pero brillante. Un libro de fantasía muy diferente por el uso de metáforas y su estilo tan peculiar. Recomendado para los amantes de la literatura de fantasía épica y satírica fuera de lo habitual. Reseña completa: https://laestanteriadecho.blogspot.co...
The writing was a little dated, but the prose well versed. The overall message showed the timelessness of man's search for meaning during a midlife crisis, knowing that it is closer than ever thought. I would highly recommend everyone read this book, just for the innuendo and double entrandres.
One of the funniest serious books about American culture I've ever read. Of course it takes place in a fantasy realm where Jurgen is rewarded by the devil and must try to get out of his reward through his own understanding of the universe. This one I even got on tape.
"And is the road to this garden roundabout?""...inasmuch as it circumvents both destiny and common-sense."
Myth-breaking fantasy mixed with bawdy Restoration wit and pure picaresque folly!
Of all time.If you read the other reviews, you can understand what it is at the first level: the story of a man's middle age seen through a prism of fantasy.It is also poignant to the point of pain, deeply funny, a satire of America, a satire of the Judeo-Christian Universe, a mockery of the devil, an apology for evil, an attack on mankind's overweening pride, the story of a lost love, and regained loves, and lost youth, and regained youth, and foolishness, and truth.
I read, and enjoyed, a few of Cabell’s fantasies when younger but missed out on the most famous (and infamous) of them, ‘Jurgen.’ That’s because it wasn’t reissued as an inexpensive paperback in the 70s, as were so many of his other books.The story teeters somewhere between high fantasy and avant-garde literary fiction, reflecting both a surrealistic modernism and a very learned, rather old-fashioned, and frequently quite funny sort of symbolism.
But then, it’s hard to say just what is the ‘real’ world here, if it even exists but is only part of what we imagine.Is it a great book or, at least, the major fantasy novel some claim it to be?
Cabell is fascinating (apparently he was Mark Twain's favorite author towards the end of his life).
Cabell is also fond of anagrams, so we end up with a classical city under attack by the forces of logical Philistia, worshipping a god called "Vel-Tyno" ("Novelty").
I think Jurgen has a lot to say about men's changing relationship with women over the course of their lives, at least from an early 20th century perspective.
Cabell is able to address so many subjects without directly addressing them.
Certainly a lot I did not pick up on first reading.
Jurgen, a dissatisfied, middle-aged pawnbroker in the land of Poictesme with a rather difficult wife, loses his wife one day.
The book is a hilarious--if glibly misogynistic-- meditation on being a middle-aged man.
Fans of Neil Gaiman may recall that Cabell gets mentioned multiple times in his Sandman series.
It was interesting to note that the influence of Cabell on that series is quite real.
The version of Hell Gaiman presents us with in Season of Mists owes a great deal to the Hell of Jurgen's journeys, so much so that Lucifer, in that book, has speeches that almost directly quote this one.
He said Cabell's books were a big hit for a brief period in the 1920s, but he's forgotten today.The conversation was prompted by my desire to write fantasy fiction, inspired by my reading of Tolkien's great trilogy.
He suggested I read Jurgen, and then said if I wrote a successful book in the same genre it would probably be forgotten in a few years.
It's a worthy ambition, but a writer has to write the kind of books he/she wants to write, so I remained in Science Fiction and Fantasy.My copy of "Jurgen" was my dad's copy, given to him as a gift a half-century before.
I read the book with enjoyment and respect.
It is not an easy book to find, and some copies--even paperback--are showing up for more than $50 each.
His use of language, story, and especially subtle humor are engaging.Publishers of the time hated the book, and many wanted to see it banned for its suggestive nature (a nature that is laughably tame by today's standards).The language, pace and flow of Cabell's writing is an excellent bedside book for a writer who wants to produce a work that entertains and instructs.Why did I have to purchase a copy of this if I liked it so much?
A humorous novel set at least partially in the land of Poictesme, location of many of Cabell’s stories.
I guess I had mixed feelings about the book; I’m not entirely sure I got the majority of the comedy, but it was mostly entertaining.
Jurgen is a pawnbroker and poet who regains his lost youth and sets out on a quest for romance and justice, entering into worlds of Arthurian legend and traditional mythology, then to Hell and Heaven, before finally speaking with Koshchei the Deathless.
A weird tale, to be sure, but pretty amusing, perhaps particularly in its observations on religion.
I can just imagine Jurgens gravestone eulogy:Here lies Pawnbroker/Duke/Prince/King/Emperor/Pope Jurgen, a monstrously clever fellow who would try any drink once, and wants you to remember that nobody noes what goes on in the dark.
Notable Quotables:You may be right in all matters, and certainly, I cannot presume to say you are wrong, but still, at the same time…NO.Hell was hilarious, with it being run by a (demo)cracy and all.
Also, some monstrously clever innuendoes sprinkled throughout.
I chose to read this book because I've been seeking out early examples of Science Fiction and Fantasy.
"I'll try any drink once." Apparently Cabell and this book has been an influence on many authors including Neil Gaimon.
There was some great humor and some very funny dialog but not on the same level of funny as Douglas Adams, which may just be a case of change in writing styles over time.
At times the book really bogs down and I wouldn't say the book is coherent as a whole, but I did enjoy reading it.
It took me a while to understand the humor style of this book, but once I let go of a need for a coherent plot, I was quite entertained by this satire.
I can see where authors such as Terry Pratchett and Douglas Adams were probably influenced by Cabell's use of wordplay, puns, and double entendres to make fun of the political, religious, and sexual mores of the time.
Although I probably missed many of the jokes, I found this book to be a delightful and funny romp.
Much of the satire is as applicable to today's world as it was when the book was published.
Had to read this to see the inspiration for Heinlein's "Job: A Comedy of Justice".
