https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60937.The_Temple_of_My_Familiar
They are difficult barriers to cross, to get to others, to get to closed-down parts of ourselves.”  - Alice Walker, The Temple of my FamiliarIt’s quite an intimidating feat to review this book.
To me, this book is more than a story, it’s an education and it’s also a challenge.
That is why Mother Africa, cursed by all her children, black, white, and in between, is dying today, and, after her, death will come to every other part of the globe.” The characters in the book were memorable.
Although I have read about this before, Walker's folk-memory telling brought it inside me for the first time - it is inside all of us, in the sense that memory and memes inhabit us communally, and in the sense of history creating us and the circumstances of our lives: in my case, the wealth and comfort I enjoy rests on the backs of those women and men who were stolen and enslaved.Health and Environment, Colonialism and Academia I think this book, in many ways is about how to live, and Walker is obviously angry about the way Black people in particular have been cut off from health and harmony with the Earth by poverty, slavery and the theft of their lands.“’Like the Hopi in your country, most ancient Africans thought of the earth as a body that needs all its organs and bones and blood in order to function properly.
Walker also presents an arboreal past that is possibly an evolutionary history, and the most utopic of all the worlds in the novel.With these stories and multi-faceted characters, Walker communicates that in every other person, there is a piece of ourselves and our histories, that from within one person, our entire past exists.
It is with this that one of the characters, Mary Jane, claims that "we all touch each other's lives in ways we can't begin to imagine."Such off-the-wall stories and complicated concepts add to the difficulty of the read while at the same time encouraging the readers to swallow a world that is so unlike their "normal" ones.
I read this in college and it changed my life, opened my eyes to some beautiful ideas and meanings about life, feminism, love, and spirituality.
There is magic, tribal wisdom, african myths, goddess worship, reincarnation, a little of everything!
It was the first time I was able to see that there is wisdom is so many faiths and beliefs and you can respect them without having to declare allegiance to them.
If I did have a familiar, I believe it is either an otter or a cat!
I think a familiar is more of a companion, but it has been a while since I have read it...
I'm ashamed to admit that this one sat on my shelves for perhaps 15 years.
But clearly, there was a reason I held onto it: it is a beautiful, magical, devastating, lyrical treat!
Even though the narrative drifts like a winding river among a cast of intertwined characters, plots, and settings, somehow they are all connected.
I'm sure the author would agree with me that, ultimately, all things are connected and the journey is its own goal.Best treat of all: We get to spend more time hanging out with the delightful Misses Celie and Shug from The Color Purple.
2.5 starsThere are some great topics of discussion in this book but it just didn't feel like a novel.
That is totally unrealistic because it is not how people converse, but it's exactly what this book expects the reader to believe.
As a psychic medium, I'm sure Alice Walker "downloads" a lot of information that she wishes to share with the world; but that's no reason for such a talented author to throw together a book like this.
No matter how great the message, I can't give more than 3 stars to a novel that completely lacks the format of a novel.
It reminded me of Grapes of Wrath in that it wasn't until I read the final chapters of the book that the story line rushed over me and revealed its excellence.Written by Alice Walker, the book explores African-American culture, but also tells a story (though not a specifically realistic story...perhaps a little more like magical realism) about the history of all mankind.
It was interesting to read a small book try to sum up the history of man and bring it back to the depth of a character and the possibilities of life.haha, I could keep going with these platitudes, but to sum it all up: It was a unique book that successfully spoke about the big picture of life and the individual struggles of the characters at the same time.
A book about how all things and people are connected, it reminds me of one of my favorite quotes from The Gulag Archipelago:“Gradually it was disclosed to me that the line separating good and evil passes not through states, nor between classes, nor between political parties either -- but right through every human heart -- and through all human hearts.
This line shifts.
And even within hearts overwhelmed by evil, one small bridgehead of good is retained.
And even in the best of all hearts, there remains ...
an unuprooted small corner of evil."
OMG, did I ever hate this book. I loved The Color Purple, so I thought I'd like this.It jumps around like crazy and includes new characters far more often than it refers back to ones we've already met. I got so sick of trying to keep track of characters that I finally threw it down in disgust. Irritating and a waste of time.
If I could liken this book to an experience it would be for me as a white person who is trying to decolonialize their mind and unlearn their racism, it would be like having a black woman who has been through so much sit down with me for three days and just tell me story after story after story of the nuanced experiences of generations of black folks in and being brought to thru slavery to america and ...
Then I thought, "What's the use of a book if it doesn't make you challenge your own thoughts?" It took me a good while to read all the way through because I kept stopping to chew over what it handed me, and in the end I'm not entirely sure I understood it in spite of all that ruminating.
Reading this book is like stepping back and seeing for the first time a vast rug you've been weaving in thousands of colors and shapes, and knowing it for what it is --beautiful and grotesque and complicated and simple and new and faded-- and liking and hating what's there in front of you, both at once.
Walker only writes stories that prove her point, while in real life, this whole tag-the-blame-on-a-gender-and-a-race quickly falls apart.In order to load the book with historical “proofs” of her assertions, Walker has created a character, Lizzie, who can remember hundreds of former lives she has been reincarnated into from the beginning of the human race.
That is just another white race invention to subjugate black men to a white god.While I totally disagree with Walker on the premise of this book, I found the stories and characters interesting.
Another of the many advantages of the rich, but only if they were clever enough not to ruin this idle time by thinking about their money.""But this little woman -- she was a white woman, and she had a black woman helping her -- she started to agitate on the mainland about the condition of the Island children, and pretty soon whole big boatloads of white people came to look us over.
The life of my people is to remember forever; each head granary is full.
The life of your people is to forget; your think granaries ('museums') and not yourselves, are full.
and i'm not even done with it.several metaphors come to life in this book, but one scene that I see as representative of the entire novel, is where Lissie is showing Suwelo several different pictures of herself taken in one day.
one crazy story is about a trip to the natural history museum in DC and seeing an exhibit that is replicates an african village that no longer exists becaues it was destroyed by slavery and civil wars.
She learns that the museum "lets" this woman, the last of her people, live in her "natural environment".
The story about Celie and the dog was especially bittersweet.
Alice Walker gets flack for becoming less bitter and political and more spiritual and introspective as she ages, but I love her journey.
I think this is what Walker has learned on her journeys, throughout her own life lessons.
Her thoughts on "dying whole", a discussion that Olivia has with her daughter Fanny, was especially helpful to me.
My only tiny gripe was that I didn't love the ending (spoiler: after all they'd been through collectively, for Fanny and Arvedya to end up together kind of bothered me) but on the whole I loved this book.
A dream of a book. A vision. In my Top Ten. One of the best titles ever.pg. 357 Miss Lissie's dream memory as told to Suwelo:"Just as my mother was queen because of her wisdom, experience, ability to soothe and to heal, because of her innate delicacy of thought and circumspection of action, and most of all because of her gentleness..."
When I first finished this, I told my mom I never wanted to be more than 50 ft away from a copy of it, ever. She gave me ~8 paperback copies of it for my next birthday. It is one of my favorite gifts ever--I gave all but one of them away.
Lovely. I read this book when I was in my late teens and liked it. But it has a very different meaning now that I am a grown woman. I really enjoyed this novel the second time around.
Wow. I read this book so many years ago. Reading it again was like discovering what I already knew again. This is a beautiful and complicated story, a layered and complex story of love.
Way ahead of most of the 1001 books to read before you die.
I sincerely believe that to be an honest and decent person today, you have to be connected with your past, and to understand the sacrifices made by past generations so that the world is shaped the way it is.
In fact, I was pretty offended by the suggestion throughout the book that unless you were black, female, and aware of these past incarnations, then connecting with your fellow human beings today would be somewhat difficult.
Kind of magic realism on one, level but not really.Anyway, I enjoyed it, as far as the lyrical writing, the interwoven characters, and the light into perspectives of different people groups.
I found many of the inter-relationships to be completely unbelievable and I couldn't agree with some of Walker's thought processes, but I understood what she was going for and even in disagreement, she presents her thoughts and ideas well.
One to re-read in the future?
Is it a "must-read?" No, in my opinion.
The Color Purple is far superior, but this makes an interesting companion piece, even if the books are completely independent of each other.3.5/5
Alice Walker knows how to write.
It's mainly a collection of long, pretentious speeches by the various characters about racism, relationships, sex, and reincarnation.
Normally, I would not even finish a book I disliked as much as I did this one.
The only reason I slogged through to the end in this case is because it's by Alice Walker, and, especially given the fact I've never read her before, I felt I owed it to myself, and maybe to her, to read the whole thing.
This book took me about 6 weeks to read. Even at 420 pages, it shouldn't have taken this long to finish. I enjoyed some parts of the book, but others made no sense to me. So many different people to keep up with and I was even more confused. Definitely not a quick read and I had to really focus on what I was reading. For example, I would get uninterested in the book after 15-20 minutes of reading which made it take even longer to read.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I did not read her first book, The Color Purple, and perhaps that is why I love this book so much. I was not influenced by the style of her earlier book. The writing is lyrical, imaginative, and intricate. I was so swept into this world that I didn't want the book to end. Just the pure beauty of the writing, along with the intricate mythology is reason enough to read this book. I need to re-read it just for the sensual experience.
The images and ideas she creates still run through my imagination - like a riddle or a picture or an idea that I can just about capture, then it slips away. I think she captures the profound and complex ways we are all tied to each other, and to our history, in this beautifully written novel.
I have been raking my brain for words that would do this novel justice. There are none. It has provoked in me feelings of utter wonder that have managed to make my thoughts incoherent, immeasurable to the genius and absolute beauty that is this story.
Wow. How wonderful to reread this book as an adult and to remember the me I was when I first read it. So formative it was to me, in learning how to be woman in this world. And how much deeper it rings true for me now. My AliceWalker-affection is rekindled. What a novel!
This sequel is very different from The Color Purple but worth a read. Alice Walker writes brilliantly about the complicated dyamics of heterosexual relationships, history, and feminism. I found her writing in this book to be both thought provoking and funny.
I loved the way the stories were interwoven. every connection served a purpose. For me, who always wants the happy ending, I came away satisfied.
I don't remember the last time I loved the characters in a book the way I loved these. I am sorry to see it over.
