https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/496534.Coral_and_Brass
Very Good Primary Source Overview of Marines in the PacificGeneral Holland Smith gives an unvarnished telling of the development of the United States Marine Corps into the finest amphibious assault force in the world from WWI through Iwo Jima.
His candid opinions of General MacArthur, the Army fighting prowess in particular as well as the treatment of the Marines by some Navy Admirals including Turner and Spurance, while seen from a Marine's perspective, is insightful and entertaining.
Excellent insights into what went right and what went went wrong in the conduct of the war in the Pacific by one of the main prosecutors of the American strategy for that campaign.
At times I felt like Mr. Smith was a bit harsh in his telling of the story, particularly when he opposed or compared the Marines to other branches in the military, but it is easy to overlook since he had a front row seat in two world wars I will only read about.
Clearly, Mr. Smith also played a major role in the Marine Corps from it's infancy through today, helping this division of our military go through some major growing pains, all while fighting too many harrowing battles in both world wars.
An excellent memoir of "Howling Mad" Smith, the Marine who commanded the land forces in the Central Pacific push.
Briefly covers his early life but gets most serious when the (non) preparations for war start in the 30's.
It is a good read that sticks with its subject without getting overly bogged down in details.
Yet there is little feel of a need to settle scores or righting of slights, rather it seems a desire to pass on what he has learned to the next generations of marine.
Howlin' Mad Smith was responsible for most of the Marine island assaults in the Central Pacific.
In this book, he tells us the story of his career, those assaults and his conflicts with the Army and the Navy.
He pulls no punches, and his loyalty to the United States Marine Corps is never in question.
Holland Smith would never be Commandant and I think this book demonstrates why.
Like Patton, he was the sort of warrior you pull out in wartime.I did find it amusing that he failed to credit the US Army with having staged multiple amphibious operations prior to Tarawa when he complains that Army Generals weren't trained or prepared to do so.
Whining Marine GeneralPerspective: I'm a US Army officer who has tremendous respect for the Marine Corp and the warriars it produces.
The fact is that most of us who read history will tell you the public at the time thought the only US military force assaulting the Japanese in the Pacific were Marines.
Smith obviously has many axes to grind.
But not being credited with Marine prowess in the fight against the Japs in the Pacific is pure fiction.
One wonders his motives.
As I read his account of his Pacific war I was struck at Smith's absence from the battlefield.
Outstanding study of the long development of amphibious warfare and the U.S. Marines actions in the Pacific during WWII. The Marines fought not only the Japanese but also the Army and Navy brass, the Joint Chiefs, and long-held public opinions about their status as a secondary force before emerging from the war triumphantly as probably the premier ground combat force in the world. Smith sounds like a gruff old Marine, which he undoubtedly was, but he was a gifted writer capable of waxing poetic at times when speaking of the corps in which he served for over three decades.
WWII Marines from the General's view, interestingGeneral Holland Smith gives me the big picture of Marines in the Pacific. It was interesting and educational as he navigated with the Navy to fight the Japanese and his superiors to prepare and win battles in the islands and the wardroom .The book is a good read for military history guys or gals, like myself and it doesn't hurt that I was a marine.
One tough old Marine, with a kind heart inside.As a kid I loved the Marine Corps, and at that time I knew nothing about "Howlin Mad Smith", or even much about their exploits. I joined up because I loved it. I still do. I like to think that I too am helping Marines gain the respect they deserve, by supporting the Marine Corps Foundation which supports the Museum of the Marine Corps.
Incredible book about the war in the PacificThis book is a classic because General Smith takes the reader behind the scenes of what it takes to prepare Marines for battle. The planning, the training, and in-fighting to get support from other top military leaders, who didn't have his vision or his genius, is a testament to the great Marine General. I highly recommend this book to all.
An important perspective on the issues of high level command in the Pacific war.
While Smith details the plans and execution of the campaign across the central Pacific, perhaps the most important aspects of this book deal with the development of amphibious doctrine and capabilities in the period between WWI and WWII as well as the inter-service bickering that took place at senior command levels as the role of the Marine Corps increased.
Overall though, a well written account that is a "must read" for the student of the war in the Pacific.
Awesome man, good book Awesome man, awesome marine. Many proofreading errors,but, they didn't hinder the flow of the reading material to badly. It would be an excellent read for military persons who know the jargon better. It was a little bit hard to understand for me as I have not served and some items were unfamiliar to me, but, I figured it out after I read further on.
WOW!!!!!I’m not a history buff, merely a history reader. This book gave me a look at a piece of history that I must admit is more than an awakening. I finished this with tears in my eyes and my heart heavy, thankful to those whose story it tells. Thank you, all of you, for the work you did and the life you allowed me to live.
A helluva story about one helluva MarineThis story of war in the South Pacific is beautiful and tragic story. Smith was the perfect leader to conquer the fanatical Japanese. He fought the Brass above as well as the enemy for his Marines.
Once a marine lived.This is an excellent book about a great Marine. Without men like Howling Mad, the outcome could have been different. The WW2 story needs to be read by our younger generations. This is just one of many good books on the subject.
God bless you, GeneralThis was a very inspiring book. I learned a lot about amphibious warfare. I learned a lot more about Marines, despite knowing many, including one who survived Iwo Jima. I am thankful for these heroes. What a book!
Good readToo much officer and high command talk with too many names I don't know Since I had an uncle with the third marine division is the reason I was so interested knowing hollering mad was leading the Iwo jima battle...
Good history of USMC in WWII Pacific by a hands on leader/commander!I enjoyed reading this as an interested Marine Corps veteran of late 1950's serving with many career people who experienced many of the operations discussed.
Brave menA great read about the brave men who won the Pacific war. You have to ask yourself, how can such men be defeated. They can't. God bless them all.
If you ever wondered what it means to be a general, this book will give you insight.
Different view.I have read the solders view of the war, this was a good point of view from the leaders of the soldiers.
Pacific war story . .Never again will we see the likes of these men from the greatest generation. Very telling what went on with the navy and command during the war.
Great BookIt starts a little slow but it pays to keep reading. The description of the land fighting is very precise for each amphibious battles in the Pacific Campaign.
Excellent book with perhaps a little too much emphasis on the political infighting and not enough on the technical details.
This was a great experience and I like the book very muchIt was a true story and we'll written it was worth try 5 rating. Hope to read books by Holland smith
StunningThis book really opened my eyes to the to the rivalry between services. I never knew it was that bad.
GoodA very comprehensive book on marine amphibious landings,well written enjoyed it no end respect to the general what a forthright man
StrugglesGreat insight into not only the combat fought by the marines but also the fight to repeatability. Great struggles involved with each.
I love this & I can't wait for more.I will be also leaving a review on Goodreads @ Amazon.And letting everyone know about it.So i gave it a 5 Stars.
Very interesting perspective of the war in the Pacific. Command structure is always clouded in egos and ambition.
Marine leadership and tactics in the Pacific warA personal account of war by one marine general. Follows the change and growth in the status of the marine before and during WW2.
