https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94799.Ghost_Soldiers
This act concluded the Battle of Bataan and forced MacArthur to withdraw his own troops, vowing to return and free, not only his soldiers, but the Philippines from Japanese control.The result was the Bataan Death March.
The Japanese believed that surrender was the worst form of cowardice and they did not feel like these prisoners deserved to live.After the march the prisoners were placed into camps where they were forced to work hard labor on farms, building airstrips, clearing jungle and digging ditches.
MacArthur, appalled at the actions of the Japanese army decided that he had to stage a rescue of the prisoners in the other camp near Cabanatuan.
Since the Japanese culture saw surrender as cowardice and dishonorable their treatment of those who did surrender was appalling.Sides structures the narrative by alternating chapters between the plight of the POWs from their capture, the Bataan Death March, their treatment at Camp O’Donnell, to their incarceration at Cabanatuan; with the training and implementation of the Army Ranger assault on the camp, and the resulting freeing of the POWs. The Japanese Commander, Lt-General Masaharu Homma actually believed that 25,000 POWs could be taken to Cabanatuan.
I was aware of the Bataan Death March but did not know anything about the daring rescue mission to liberate 513 prisoners of the Cabanatuan POW camp where many of the survivors were imprisoned.
121 hand-picked troops from the elite Army 6th Ranger Battalion are selected to slip behind enemy lines and march 30 miles to Cabanatuan on a daring rescue mission ...
The mission was a success and at the time was a major story and morale booster for the United States and Allies.
It is an important story and should not be forgotten.
It is simply excellent as it tells the story of the Bataan Death March, those survivors who ended up in Cabanatuan POW camp in the Philippines, and the subsequent greatest rescue mission of World War II.
Most reader of WWII history are familiar with the brave and seemingly impossible mission taken on by US Rangers and Filipino guerrillas and this book fleshes out our knowledge as well as introducing some of the POWs and the roles they played in everyday prison camp life which kept many of their comrades alive.
Interesting & well-written. I might reread it. I'm sorry I didn't keep notes. I recall Sides giving an excellent book talk at the Eldorado, NM Public Library. We both lived there then. He wrote the book just in time to talk to the last survivors of the Bataan Death March, who were mostly from New Mexico.If you haven't read this, well, you should. Though it gets pretty grim. Here's the GR review to read:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
An amazing true story, well told.As Allied forces in the Philippines begin pushing the Japanese from Luzon island, the US Army hears of the Japanese massacring POWs. Next at risk: Cabanatuan prison camp, where about 500 prisoners (mostly American) are being held.
On their mission, they receive vital help from the Alamo scouts and several groups of Filipino guerrillas.The story is told in alternating chapters, switching between the rescue mission and what happened with the POWs. Most of the latter were captured during the fall of the Philippines in early 1942.
"You can judge a society by how well it treats its prisoners"Ghost Soldiers is about a US Ranger mission to liberate a POW camp in WWII during the reconquest of the Philippines.
The book starts out with a very interesting and extremely ghastly story of a massacre of nearly 150 American prisoners in a POW camp adjacent to an air strip in the Philippines.
The author Hampton Sides tells the story from the point of view of the survivors of the camp and the Rangers that made the raid.
This story is the account of the attempt to free over 500 American and British POW's who had spent over 3 years in the Cabanatuas Japanese Prision Camp. They had already survived the Bataan Death March.The author kept the reader in apt interest in the way he protrayed what was happening in the camp.These men fought and died for our freedom. They all experienced great hardships of which is hard to imagine.
Sides' compelling prose make the narrative read like a novel, with effective pacing of the heroic actions by this early cadre of Army Rangers alternating with the human stories of the survivors and their liberators.
Of the nearly 80,000 who surrendered to the Japanese in the Bataan peninsula in 1942, about 600 Americans and 5-10 thousand Filipinos died on the three week forced March north to a camp in central Luzon.
At the initial horrific staging camp, about 1,500 more Americans and 15,000 Filipinos died within the first two months there.
In an attempt to understand my father to a greater extent, I chose to start reading books concerning the Pacific Theater....'Ghost Soldiers' was my first.......When most people think of WWII they think of Nazi's, the Holocaust, and Pearl Harbor; but what about the thousands of Americans who fought, were captured and died?...Ghost Soldiers holds every piece of today's best fictional thriller; but it's a true story; the story of the 'Bataan Death March' life as a POW of the Japanese Imperial Army and the courage group of newly created 'Special Ops' men who liberated the POWs of Cabantuan.
Thoroughly enjoyed reading this well written account of the rescue of the POWs of the Bataan Death March and the Rangers who rescued them.
Hampton Sides writes so beautifully as he transitions back and forth between the rescue efforts, over the period of a few days, to accounting the years that the POWs experienced.
These men all deserve to be remembered for what they experienced.
This was a great read!
I am a Hampton Sides fan now because of this book.
The prisoners included the last survivors of the Bataan Death March.
…. Elsewhere in the Philippines, the Japanese Army had already executed American prisoners as it retreated from the advancing U.S. Army.
I felt that I really got to know the men involved – prisoners and rescuers.
In the 1990s, when visiting the Philippines on business, he walked about a hundred meters of the Bataan Death March route – “Just to get the feel of what they endured.” This is a history that will appeal to fans of Laura Hillenbrand’s Unbroken or Doug Stanton’s In Harm’s Way. James Naughton does a fabulous job of narrating the audio book.
This is a story about the rescue of the final remaining 530 prisoners who were rescued after information came out that the Japanese were slaughtering POWs as the war was drawing to an end.
I have to admit that I had to pause as I couldn't read through my tears in the passages which described the tenderness the Rangers displayed to the men they liberated....and the beautiful poetry of Henry Lee. The author wove this story in a manner that brings the reader close to certain men that are followed from the beginning to the end.
How different from all the years in our world's history when the leaders LED the battle and accepted the same danger they were imposing on their followers.Anyway - sorry for the rant - but I am so offended for all our young men (and women)who have died - defending the *honor* of our country - but what was too many times found out later to be $$ driven.
:(BUT - since this is a review of the book and not the historical time it recounted - this was excellently written.
General Masaharu Homma had sought to prepare for the evacuation of the POWs months earlier; having foreseen that this would be a huge logistical problem, he prepared a place called Camp O'Donnell, a former training installation of the Philippine Army located about 75 miles north of Bataan's tip, as a way station for the prisoners.
That mission forms the substance of the story recounted in this book.Sides has provided adequate background to the raid, recounting the history of the war in the Philippines and Bataan in particular so that the reader has a context in which to place and understand the events of the mission.
He alternates the telling of general events of the war with the particular circumstances of the men and conditions in the camp and the composition of the group of Rangers, including the roles and personalities of the men comprising the unit.
Ghost Soldiers brought back memories of the incredible suffering of the American and Filipino prisoners of war at the hands of the Japanese.
In fact their government's official position is that they were the victims and the war was caused by the U.S. embargo on oil to their island empire.Next is how Mars smiled on the 6th Ranger Battalion's efforts to liberate the Cabanatuan prison camp survivors.
For example, he says the M-1 carbine is a lighter version of the M-1 Garand rifle (not true) and seems awed by the Browning Automatic Rifle's cyclical rate of fire of 550 rounds per minute.
Alternating chapters jump between the Bataan Death March/Camp Cabanatuan and the rescue effort that takes place a couple of years later.Sides introduces us to some memorable characters; from Army medics, chaplains, POWs, Philipino rebels and even a female US spy.
Even in these dreary settings, Sides is able to introduce the occasional slice of humor to provide a reprieve from the dark details of camp life and Japanese brutality.
It's amazing that any of those POWs made it out alive.
A dark read at times but Sides really does an amazing job with this story.
Well structured, well written, and an unforgettable story.
One of the best books I've read my entire life!My late grandfather was a Filipino soldier and survivor of the Death March during WWII.
I really wanted to know what went on during that time because no one in my family could really tell me what he went through as he never spoke about it.This book told me why he couldn't speak of it: It was so atrocious and traumatizing, he probably didn't want to relive that horrible nightmare.
It was so glorious and uplifting to read a TRUE heroic story.
If you're a WWII buff, this book will not disappoint you!
Better than the movie, this is an account of the largest allied prisoner escape of WWII. Well written and suspenseful, it's a gripping narrative. Although some of the prisoners are believably portrayed, the story gives little background as regards the Japanese invasion of the islands and virtually no insight into the character of the Japanese themselves. Furthermore, although playing a vital role in events, even the Huk nationalists are left as shadowy, alien characters. Everything is strictly from the perspective of the allies. Still, considered strictly as a story, however slanted, it was a good read.
Let me introduce a few of the POW passengers: Chaplain Robert Taylor, who had the reputation for being the only man in the starving camp who could be trusted to deliver food untouched to a dying soldier; Henry Lee, an amiable poet; “Manny” Lawton, a well-regarded captain; and Frank Bridget, who was described as “nervous, intense, over-eager and often rubbed people the wrong way.”Inside the cargo hold of the ship, it was dark and hellishly hot.
He also insisted the hatch door stay open and that water be brought to the POWs.Two days after they set sail, US pilots bombed the Oryoku Maru, not knowing American POWs were onboard.
And in telling this story, Hampton Sides weaves biographies of those involved with episodes of the Pacific war that is as brisk as it is compelling.The momentum in the Pacific war turns, a robust United States military returns to the Philippines and in January 1945 a band of hand picked Army Rangers go thirty miles behind enemy lines to attempt the most daring prisoner of war rescue in American history.This would be the first Army Ranger mission.
And their selfless heroism is inspirational to the point of being humbling.If you only read one book about the United States Military in the Pacific in World War II, make sure it's "Ghost Soldiers" by Hampton Sides.
More than simply a story about the raid that liberated the prison camp at Cabanatuan in the Philippi
This is the kind of history I love.
I know some or maybe a lot may be not all that accurate, but I love the personal aspect of the story.And that's what I mean by 'the kind of history'.
It made the story seem whole.I felt as though the men in the story were all treated with care when written about them.
Like, Sides really cared for these men and their important stories (and so I believe he does).
At times it literally hurt to continue reading because of how distraught I felt.
After being abandoned in Bataan and Corregidor, most American soldiers eventually made there way into Cabanatuan prison camp where they were ritualistically beaten down by Japanese guards, disease and malnutrition.
As liberation became more of a certainty, a desperate and frantic Japanese Army ordered the slaughter of all POWs, basically to "hide the evidence".
500 mostly American POWs at Cabanatuan were spared certain death by an unbelievably bold raid - basically a prison break - lead by a group of crack soldiers from the newly formed Army Ranger program.
Tense, poignant and personal, this book recounts the story of the daring rescue of the Bataan Death March survivors from their Japanese POW camp on the Philippines by an elite group of Army Rangers. Hampton Sides deftly flips the narration between the Rangers and their native Filipino supporters and the POWs themselves, thereby telling the terrible and yet heroic story in its' entirety. It is filled with personal anecdotes and back stories that truly make it all too real. 5 stars.
The 500 American POWs in the Cabanatuan camp had survived the Bataan death march and then endured this treatment for three long, soul crushing years, and as the war neared its grizzly end it seemed likely that their Japanese captors would murder them before fleeing from the oncoming American forces.Ghost Soldiers tells the story of their suffering and their rescue by US Army Rangers and Filipino Guerrillas.
To rescue these broken men the Rangers had to penetrate miles behind Japanese lines and slaughter the prison camp guards suddenly and with complete surprise while the guerrillas held back Japanese troops to ensure that the rescued POWs could make good their escape.This fundamentally exciting story is exceedingly well told by Hampton Sides, who paints affecting portraits of both the POWs and their rescuers.
This is the true story of American, Philippine and other soldiers who were captured by the Japanese in world war II in the Philippines. There are forced to march for several days to prisoner of war camps on what was to become known as battan death march. The soldiers are tortured & starved by the Japanese. Eventually allied soldiers plan a daring raid to break the prisoners out of the camp during the invasion of the phillipines.
*4.5/5
An amazing story of survival despite despicable acts by men at war. A good book for anyone who appreciates WWII history.
