https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402737.The_Burglar_in_the_Closet
This book inspired one of the greatest head-scratchers in the history of film adaptations when Hollywood decided that Burglar would feature Whoopi Goldberg playing a white male and Bobcat Goldthwait would be perfect as a lesbian dog groomer.I got to meet Lawrence Block while he was on a book tour for Hope to Die, and I asked him if he knew what prompted the movie producers to have Whoopi play Bernie.
Sheldrake’s ex-wife Crystal reamed him in their divorce settlement, and he’d like to get some payback by having Bernie steal her large collection of valuable jewelry.
Bernie exists in his own right, he lives in the same New York as Scudder but he prefers to ignore the bad news that Scudder is wallowing in, choosing instead to find pleasure in the finer things in life, such as good food, good wine and the thrill of being in another person's apartment and going through their property without an invite.If like me you are a Block addict, the burglar books will help to keep you from getting too hardboiled if you read them in between your Scudders and provide another avenue in the great man's writing to explore.
As always Bernie is a fun character who fully embraces his immoral outlooks but lives with his own code of honor in the thieving world.
As with the first book, how the body happens is rather amusing; this burglar just doesn't have good luck when it comes to these crime scenes.The series isn't award winning yet, it's more of a novelty type of cozy that I think mystery fans should enjoy.
I have the next three books to read and look forward to more fun antics with a man who looks forward to burglary, but not these murders he keeps having to solve instead.
Bernie Rhodenbarr is hiding in the closet while someone kills his dentist's soon-to-be ex-wife. Quite a pickle! Enjoyable series.
Like the others, it stars master thief Bernie Rhondenbarr and has a light, almost airy feel to the story.
(If you've made them, then you know what I am talking about.)Each Burglar book has, at its core, some central artifact or theme that gets exposed in great detail to the reader.
Whether the theme is something that a thief might steal or some background/past that affects a character does not matter.
The best thing about him is that he manages to solve mysteries while he is busy with all the above activities.
Talking about his methodology of solving mysteries, it is neither the logical way noor the way of deductive reasoning.
His mysteries go something like this :Oooooohhhhh what does this button do ?Boom !
Looks like I blew up something !
What then remains is to find out who blew up what and why they did it.
It is an onrush of activity and Rhodenbarr is a nice enough fella to give you company through the proceedings.
Before you know it, the police are after Bernie for not one but two murders.
Can Bernie clear his name before the police catch him?I have to admit that after the first Burglar book, I was a little skeptical.
While the plot is quite similar to the first book, Burglars Can't Be Choosers, it's better executed.
The writing is better, the plot is better, and the characters are better.
I had no earthly idea who the killer was until about 81% of the way through the book.
There were some nagging plot threads that were never resolved but all in all, it was an enjoyable read.
Este libro lo leí y ha desaparecido de mi lista de lecturas. Es la segunda vez que me pasa y no entiendo el porqué.Se que no me entusiasmó mucho pero dudo que mi critica poco entusiasta fuese la causante...
3.5*
Archie, Bernie, call him what you like, same guy.Did I say 'professional' burglar?
Problem is, there always seems to be some kind of slight complication that ordinarily ends up with someone dying unexpectedly and leaving Bernie on the run and having to fix the problem so's the cops don't get confused and pin the rap on the wrong guy who happens to be a professional burglar.
So ...not to worry, it will get dicey but Bernie's a professional, knows what he's doing, been in a few scrapes before, he'll fix this one, like the last one and you and I will be laughing the whole time.So read it already.
(I love Mrs. Hesch.
Reminds me of my Aunt Anna.) Bernie is again suspected of murder & must find the real killer before the cops find him.
The end worked out about how I expected, but there was a bit of twist that I thought was over the top.
(view spoiler)[Bernie thinking that Craig the dentist was the one making love to his ex-wife while he was hiding in the closet.
(hide spoiler)] Other than that, it was another fun romp, but I'm hoping the next book will break the mold a bit more.
Lawrence Block is moving his way up my favorite author list with every book that I read of his.
This series follows Bernie Rhodenbarr our favorite burglar and if you want the standard Block grit and seriousness then this series isn't for you.
It has a New York feel to it so if that's something you like (or don't like) be warned.Not 5 stars because I thought the book was probably 50 pages too long but a really good read nonetheless.Recommended IF you like Lawrence Block or this particular series or NYC or humor/mystery.
Чудесно заплетена кримка, с главен герой ловкия обирджия Бърни Роденбар.Заключен в гардероб посред лесен наглед удар, той става задочен свидетел на убийство и трябва да го разреши, ако не желае сам да опере пешкира за него.Втора книга от серията, само първата е издадена на български и съответно поредицата ще бъде дочетена от мен на английски.
Solid, fun mystery starring Bernie Rodenbahr, a thief with the guys of a burglar. Bonus points for humor, lots of personality to characters, fun dialogue, and non-obvious solution to the mystery. Will read more!
Bernie Rhodenbarr, the debonair and non-violent burglar, is back, again implicated in a murder that takes place in the very domicile he is stealing from.
Bernie’s dentist knows he’s a burglar, and convinces him to rob the dentist’s ex-wife’s apartment, where she keeps a lot of jewelry.
It’s another charming, witty mystery; with his self-effacing yet urbane burglar, Block is as masterful at the comic caper as he is at the rough noir of Matthew Scudder’s world.
The main “reveal” of the killer’s name is less than ingenious, but on the whole it’s a clever book; it gets by on wit and charm.
The Burglar in the Closet is a wonderful example of it.
But the lightness and clever mind of Bernie is a wonderful thing to behold.
Burglar 2 is Block's usual--populated with great characters driving the plot with great dialogue that is clean and unencumbered with extra prose jamming up the works when it's not needed.
Bernie can be heavy with the snark or cute or whatever you'd like to call it, but The Burglar in the Closet had genuine moments of emotion that wasn't overplayed where a lesser author might have been tempted to do so.
PROTAGONIST: Bernie Rhodenbarr, burglarSERIES: #2 of 10RATING: 3.75WHY: When Bernie Rhodenbarr's dentist tips him off that his ex-wife owns a lot of jewelry, Bernie decides to rob her.
She returns unexpectedly with a lover.
Bernie hides in her closet, where she locks him in - with the attaché case full of jewels still in her room.
Bernie hears her being murdered; when he finally gets out, he finds that the case has been stolen.
The dentist is arrested, but he spills the beans on Bernie, who then becomes the prime suspect.
The plot is nicely complicated and lots of well-integrated humor.
This second book in the Bernie Rhodenbarr series, has the burglar inveigled into burgling the apartment of the ex-wife of his dentist. The ex comes in while Bernie is still inside, forcing him to hide in the closet. He accidentally leaves a briefcase containing his ill gotten gains out in plain sight. Somebody kills the ex, and steals the briefcase. Bernie has to find out whodunnit...and get the briefcase back. Very entertaining, well done mystery.
Bernie's quite the charming character, and it's certainly a pleasure to watch him try to disentangle himself from another seemingly straightforward job that has inevitably gone terribly wrong. A perfect series for fans of the late Donald E. Westlake.
Pity poor Bernie. Instead of a nice clean burgle, he gets a dead body and no loot at all. Then, to add insult to injury, he's accused of having done the killing. Naturally, he can't cop to having been on the scene, so he absolutely has to prove his innocence. The doing of which makes for an entertaining and highly amusing tale, even if it is a bit over the top.
Lawrence Block is my favorite author. The comic burglar series stars Bernie Rhodenbarr as the hapless bookstore owner who always runs into unexpected trouble when pulling one of his cat burglar heists. Like the master of the comic caper Donald Westlake, Block manages comedy, terrific characters, and mystery in his crackling dialogue. Read them all.
This book was written back in 1978 and for that reason I think is why I really, really liked it, especially the authors writing style. This is back when authors really put their full effort in writing a quality book. Mr Block has a wonderful vocabulary and writes his sentences in a unique and original way. This is the second book I have ready of his and will read all his others.
Another charming tale of gentleman burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr who wouldn't hurt a fly but was framed for murder. Yet again, he proves more of a detective than the police by using his skills as a lock pick and his connections with the underworld to clear his name.
I've read all of Lawrence Block's Burglar series more than once. Bernie Rhodenbaar is a great creation -- funny, clever and engaging to the last page.
This is probably the fourth or fifth time I've read this book and I still get a thrill. Just as good now as it was 30 plus years ago.
Thoroughly enjoyable book in the Burglar series. I thought I had it all figured out early on, but as usual, I was wrong. I look forward to reading book #3 in a week or two.
This one's pretty good. Better than #1
Bernie is interrupted mid-burgle and forced to hide in a closet, whereupon he becomes witness to a murder.
It is not the most original premise--I was immediately reminded of Blake Crouch's book Good Behavior as well as the Clint Eastwood film Absolute Power, both of which feature thieves hiding in closets and witnessing crimes.
Whether it's a passage where Bernie is evading capture while imagining what sort of white wine he will have with dinner or comparing a Rabson cylinder on a police lock to a timid maiden, the wit sparkles just a little brighter.
Block's patented formula for this series, and a brilliant premise it is: a gentleman burglar with a moral code (loose moral code, but one nevertheless), spends a small amount of time as burglar and the majority of the book working to solve a whodunnit murder, not because he wants to, but rather, of necessity (he's usually going to be the prime suspect if he can't find and deliver the real killer to the cops).
Nothing heavy, just a lovely little book that is recommended for fans of the series and Lawrence Block in general.
Block first published “Burglar in the Closet” in 1978 as the second of what eventually became an eleven-book series featuring the gentleman-burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr.
This is clearly one of the best of the series and is a terrific read.
In the series, Bernie is not your typical gritty, dirty criminal.
He is actually, despite his predilection for burgling, an ordinary guy.
He tries to live an ordinary life.
The book is smoothly written and quick reading and quite hilarious, particularly when this professional burglar gets locked in the closet among the ex-wife’s gowns and shoes.
