https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29967406-the-dead-shall-be-raised-murder-of-a-quack
The conventional doctor is a drunkard and very bitter at the way people prefer to see his unqualified rival but could he really have committed the crime?These mysteries are written in the author's trademark low key style with plenty of touches of humour.
He doesn't work in conventional ways and many of the things he does in these two books wouldn't be accepted in the twenty first century but he gets results but if you forget twenty first century policing methods and read these books in the context of the time in which they are written then they are entertaining stories.
The Dead Shall Be Raised, (aka Murder Will Speak), opens with two chapters which show all that is good about George Bellairs’ writing, especially in the earlier novels from the 40’s and 50’s.
The first describes Inspector Littlejohn’s rail journey from London to Lancashire on Christmas Eve 1940; the second features a performance of The Messiah, (from which the book title is taken), during which news comes of the discovery, on the moors, of a long-buried skeleton During his investigations into three inter-related murders, Littlejohn finds many skeletons in the closets of the factory owners of the area.
It is very pleasant to step back into the past and read a straightforward detective novel where the reader knows as much as the investigator and lives the investigation with him.
I don't think I've read a better description of the (im)practicalities of the blackout.Death of a QuackWhen the body of bone setter Nathaniel Wall is found hoisted on his own machinery, obviously murdered in the Cambridgeshire village of Stalden Inspector Littlejohn is called in to investigate.
While it was my first Bellairs book, it was the third in a series spanning four decades featuring Scotland Yard detective Thomas Littlejohn.
Now, thanks to Netgalley and Poison Pen Press, I have the chance to savor No. 2 and No. 6 in the series, reissued together in one volume.In The Dead Shall Be Raised, Littleton is in Hatterworth, a small Pennine town in northern England for the Christmas holiday, reunited with his beloved wife Letty, who had fled the London blitz.
Here’s to hoping that there will be more reissues soon.In the spirit of full disclosure, I received this book free from NetGalley, Poison Pen Press, and British Library Publishing in return for an honest review.
I'm glad Bellairs' stories are being republished, they've languished too long in the reserve collection of public libraries under threat of extinction. Nicely-paced, humane and closely observed these two stories are excellent rainy day reading.
Two mysteries written and set in the 1940s by George Bellairs, the pseudonym of a bank manager who was a steady "middle list" British mystery writer of the time.
These were my first experience of his work, featuring his rather plodding Superintendent Littlejohn Scotland Yard - who is actually more my idea of a bank manager of the day than a policeman.I preferred the first book, which is set in a north country moorland village around Christmas, 1940, and has a wonderful sense of place and time, with the local Superintendent singing the Messiah in the local church on Christmas Eve. I found in both cases there's an obvious distinction between bad guys and good guys, although the solution of the first book was not what I expected.
"The Dead Shall be Raised and Murder of a Quack" is a collection of two novellas written by Bellairs published in the early 1940s that are recently re-issued by Poisoned Pen Press.
The collection is my second attempt at getting acquainted to the author's neglected works and the compilation proves to be another winner.Bellairs' writing is often quite slow to get into.
His elaborate descriptions on scenery, characters and even trivial tidbits prohibits immediate dives into the plots.
Plots indeed are not composed spectacularly but there are always unexpected surprises ready for his readers.
Another wonderful title re-issued by Poisoned Pen Press.
A pair of old-fashioned English mysteries from the 40s. Very entertaining. Reminiscent of "Midsomer Murders" with a focus on small English towns, quirky local characters and mysteries solved through the help of busy-bodies and gossip. I've read several of the installations from the "British Library Crime Classics" collection, which consists mostly of authors I've never heard of, and I've been very impressed so far. I'll continue to seek them out as they are a refreshing change of pace from the often graphic and bloody mysteries of today.
The second finds the Inspector brought in to help the local police in an East Anglian village after a local unqualified doctor is murdered.This is the first British Library Crime Classic I have read and I hope it doesn't represent the quality of the series.
There isn't very much detective work required by Little John; he works his way through those around at the time of the first murder and they tell him what happened.
But of course the proper social order is restored at the end and those who get above themselves are either dead or on their way to the gallows.
He seems to feel that there is a very narrow definition of what makes a Good Woman, and the vast majority of his women characters do not fit it.
Although, equally bizarrely, a woman who thinks it's ok to beat her maid across the face with a stick actually does fit it.
To be honest, though, I didn't care enough about any of the characters to really be bothered by who did it at all.
All in all, these stories are fine but I shan't bother with any more of this author's works.
A taste worth acquiringBellairsis a taste worth acquiring. His plots are not labyrinthine but neither are they simple abdomen Littlejohn, his hero, is an old fashioned sleuth who gets to his denouement with aplomb, and a slice of luck but without stretching the reader's credulity. Bellair's forays into character description can occasionally be tiresome, but more frequently they are insightful and often amusing, with some delightful turns of phrase. Overall a pleasure to read and great value.
Brilliant double helping from one of my favourite authors. Good on The British Library for digging up and reprinting these hard to find old murder mysteries.
Like his lead, Detective Inspector Littlejohn, Bellairs was a man content with his craft with a skill founded on observation of human nature.
The characters are often colorful, but are entirely believable.The Dead Shall Be Raised and The Murder of a Quack are included in this edition by Poisoned Pen Press.
The Dead Shall Be Raised concerns the discovery of a skeleton that revives a murder case from two decades previous.
Both The Dead Shall be Raised and The Murder of a Quack are solid, well written procedurals from the 1940s.
Inspector Littlejohn is in the area for Christmas and takes on the investigation of the newly reopened case.
Soon it becomes clear that the murderer is still at large However, Inspector Littlejohn is quite keen to get involved in this twenty odd year old double murder.
Another enjoyable Littlejohn readMurder of a QuackNathaniel Wall, the local quack doctor, is found hanging in his consulting room in the Norfolk village of Stalden - but this was not a suicide.
Wall may not have been a qualified doctor, but his skill as a bonesetter and his commitment to village life were highly valued.
This compilation of two detective stories has the definite feel of a classic read.
During this time a skeleton is unearthed, and the local authority asks for Littlejohn's assistance in unraveling the town's twenty-year old mystery.
The second tale centers around the murder of a "quack" (an old-time chiropractor and practitioner of old methods of healing) that Littlejohn is called on to solve.
Littlejohn is a master of unraveling people's characters from their dress and surroundings (not quite as masterful as other famous Brit detectives), but goes through the process in methodical steps which allows the reader to be privy to as well.
Both cases involve the quintessential English village setting, a cast of quirky characters and a fairly straightforward mystery.
Each time I begin a book, I find myself completely lost in the English village where it’s set, happy to follow in Inspector Littlejohn’s footsteps and thoughts :) Each time I reach the end, I’m reluctant to leave!I love that the Inspector is written as a normal man.
I also love that the series can be read out of order without significant continuity issues.
Inspector Littlejohn is another of the great tribe of fictional detectives solving crimes in the mysteries of the time, and not a great standout in himself.
What does stand out and make the stories memorable reading is their vivid descriptions of the surrounding countryside, and of little country towns that had just come through World War II and were still feeling its reverberations.
Village characters abound, but somehow they feel less like stereotypes than the fruits of keen observations of a world already passing away.
The only thing that makes me uneasy is that Littlejohn et al.
Still, this is fun reading!
"The Dead Shall be Raised" and "The Murder of a Quack" are two mysteries that were originally published in the early 1940s.
The second was set in 1942 in England.The characters were described with a humorous touch, and the villagers and village life was described with more detail than most mysteries from this time period.
The focus almost seemed more on the interesting characters than on creating a difficult mystery.
The mysteries were clue-based and were interesting, but they weren't difficult for a reader to solve.
Overall, I'd recommend this enjoyable mystery.I received an ebook review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
Though some aspects of these two murder-mysteries may cause a modern reader to squirm, there is none of the appalling racism or classism that abounds in other contemporary novels of the same time.
Each is set in a rural community, one in the north and one in East Anglia, and - to his credit - the author uses accented English to help ground his stories, without being condescending.
When reading either book the reader is transported to a quite different time: wartime England but where, in many rural communities, life really did carry on much as usual.
Police procedural novellas from the 1940s.
Fans of Midsomer Murder, Vera or Foyle's War might enjoy these.
Be warned that the author had a social-scientist-like fascination with details of clothing, décor and dialect, which he chronicles extensively.
Did you know people used oil-cloth to cover their floors back then, for example, or sandbags at the base of windows to stop drafts?
You'll learn a lot of odd details like that.The author works hard to make the various characters lifelike, each with their quirks.
His detective's banter with his wife reminded me of the Barnabys from Midsomer Murder, very realistic and fun.
This book contains a pair of Scotland Yard Inspector Littlejohn murder investigations.
Each story is set in the English countryside during World War 2, although the war effort plays little or no role in the stories.They are essentially police procedural whodunits narrated by Inspector Littlejohn.
The inspector's thorough and slightly plodding sleuthing results in the unmasking of the killers in each of the stories.For me, Bellairs excels in his descriptions of the people the inspector interviews in the course of his investigations and the communities in which the crimes have occurred.
The characters make the plots secondary to the storytelling.Martin Edwards's Introduction is as usual interesting background to the stories as well as the author.The stories are good but relatively unexciting reading.
I have read several of the Chief Inspector Littlejohn book and enjoyed them all.
In The Dead Shall be Raised a body is discovered by the Home Guard and Littlejohn has to solve a murder that occurred years before.
I probably preferred The Dead Shall be Raised.
Bellairs did a good job of writing atmospherically about Littlejohn's train journey at Christmas, the characters in the village, production of the Messiah in the village church.
I read them to sink back into the writing of another time and that is exactly what this book accomplished.
Cold case & Healer envyThe first case was very interesting because it had to do with a cold case in which Inspector Littleohn became unofficially invovled.
I like the relationship that he has with his wife.
They seem to truly like one another.
I also liked his friend and fellow officer too, who evidently is a singing policeman.
Their interactions were heartwarming.
The other characters which I liked as well were the two elderly ex-officers.
They were a hoot.
We gain more insight into Littlejohn's character and see how he handles obstructive people whom he doesn't really care for.

I discovered this book (of two novels) at the library, quite by chance.
What wonderful period pieces!
Place is very important in these stories, as is the era (during WWII).
Bellairs’ descriptions of the physical settings of the villages, the characters, their gardens and of any other details lend such an atmosphere.
He introduces us to random characters who only appear briefly in the stories, but they are so memorable.
His descriptions of character traits are wonderful: “Mellalieu made noises with his mouth in an effort to indicate he was sympathetic.

I am a real convert to the work of George Bellairs, and his witty detective, Inspector Littlejohn. They are of their time of course, but they differ from a lot of Golden Age crime novels in not always being a straightforward whodunnits. Occasionally, they are a bit mundane and the characters a tad wooden, but of those I have read so far, the majority are a good light read, and definitely worth resurrecting, as in this new version.
Both a good mystery!Of the two of these books in one cover I believe I liked the first better. That doesn't mean the second one wasn't just as good though. I enjoyed both allot I've found a new detective I really like in Littlejohn. I'll be reading through his books now, & there seems to be a lot of them. I definitely recommend these very good British masteries to anyone who likes reading of the details the police go thru to find the murderer. Enjoy!!
I really enjoyed "The Dead shall be Raised", and thought it was a fun mystery with just enough complexity to be enjoyable. "Murder of a Quack" was far more predictable - once the killer appeared, I was bored; it seemed a bit didactic. But if you like a WWII setting and want a good murder mystery, I would not hesitate to recommend this book.
I enjoy both these novels. They are set just at the beginning of the War and were written in the time period so very accurate for what was going on. For people who live 'cozy' English murder mysteries set in little villages, these are perfect. The characters are fun and the mysteries seem to be set in sins from years before which are now coming to light...just like the bodies.
