https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59846.Star
I read this book when I was very young and have revisited it over the years.
This book is really one of my favorites, but I couldn't bring myself to give it 5 stars.
Crystal and Spencer (the main characters in the story) obviously love one another very much, however, they make so many mistakes and it takes years and years for them to end up together.
So many years wasted - it literally gave me anxiety attacks.
But, I always finished it because the happy ending is what I was always waiting for.
This book will make you cry tears of happiness.The ending felt rushed and I wanted more on Crystal,Spencer and Zeb's future (family)life at least as an epilogue.I wish there was more pages to the book, especially the last 3 pages could have been stretched to at least 20 or 25..The book was too dragged at some places, specifically her life with Ernesto Salvatore and Spencer & Elizabeth's married life(Whenever Spencer tries to wriggle out of their relationship she trapped him in, the grip fastens.And I think Ms.Steel wasted a lot of pages on their 'Divorce talks' over and over in regular intervals->it really was tiresome to read those parts..It could've been avoided.Only if those pages were added to Crystal and Spencer's relationship at the end (and how I wish!) or as an epilogue..) Enough with the Rant.It was a short and prim book all in all.The title 'STAR' really suits the book, eventhough Spencer's life stole pages and pages from the book.
Reading the first 50 pages was a bit boring 'cuz it was all about how beautiful and graceful Crystal was.
And Spencer.
That was a bit odd for me at first.
A 26-year-old guy fell in love with a 14-year-old girl at first sight?
I was like "Nah".
But later it became OK.
I liked her when Spencer first met her.
She was all intelligent and beautiful and smart.
Well, that made us dislike her later.
He really really loved her.
He really really loved her.
As you see, I suck at reviews during these days.
Review slump?
After World War II Crystal Wyatt, a beautiful young woman moves to Hollywood dreaming of singing and acting in films. She meets and falls in love with Spencer Hille, He thinks she is too young for marriage and convinces himself he's not in love. Spencer later marries someone, who suits his family and life style as a lawyer. Crystal makes it big as a Hollywood star. When the characters meet again they realize they are destined to be together. However, there's a lot of suffering on the way. I think this is one of Danielle Steels's better novel.
D.S and LaVyrle Spencer books are like a little high. They’re guilty pleasure authoresses—legends that set the tone for many current books in the genre, and sometimes you just crave being in their saccharine worlds. my least favourite I’ve read of hers because the characters annoyed me to no end. That’s part of the charm though since they have humanlike characteristics and why the stories rope you in.
DNF. Abandoned at 15% because I couldn't take another mention of Crystal's "amazingness" or "beauty" or how she was in love with a guy she met once and who was twice her age. (Shudder)
Read this book as a teenager and I always find myself coming back to it! All time favorite.
Enjoyed the movie better than the book. Can you believe that one?
My friends and I, when we were freshman in college, got a hold of a copy of this book and read it aloud to each other each night, a chapter at a time, and we laughed until we wanted to die every single night. It was good times.
Great read, love the characters of Crystal and Spencer.

A sweet love story about a girl who wants to become a hollywood star and a guy involved in the military.
I've read quiet a few books of Danielle Steel and i've cried and laugh a lot with most of them, but sadly this wasn't one of the finest works from Mrs. Steel.
I feel that the story needed a little more of strenght, it was a little more predictable that it should have (when you've read a lot you kindda see it comming).
But even though, it is a nice read.
I really enjoyed this book, though I don't agree with some of the choices that the characters made. Steel repeats herself constantly, telling us over and over how beautiful Crystal is, as if we'd forget that she, or any of Steel's characters for that matter, are anything but stunningly beautiful. But overall a great read about one woman's ability to survive.
A nice love story about a girl who wanted to become a Hollywood star. The problems and bad people she had to face which is a reality. It's the harsh reality shown that is often seen in this stream. The guy is involved in the military and the two people are not able to meet until the end but thank god, it was it was a happy ending that kept the good mood.
I liked the story, classic Danielle Steel where two people can't be together for whatever reason but it all works out in the end. I saw another review on here where somebody remarked on her repeating herself on numerous occasions as if she's trying to pad the book out, which I totally agree with - that's the only downer really.
It was a little harsh what happened to the girl but I guess that's sort of reality. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes Danielle Steel - I think it's one of her best. I enjoyed it all the way through and I didn't want it to end. It was great.
This book started out much butter than it ended. Parts of her books are so believable and then it spins off in to the fantasy world. The relationship between Crystal & her mother after her Dad died wasn't believable. It also seemed rushed towards the end. It was an ok book though.
This is a great book about multiple personality disorder. It was really fascinating to me to hear about a girl that dealt with a trauma and how that developed into MPD. I would definately recommend this book.
I read this when I was 13 and it was my favorite book then, but I doubt I would still love it as much.
Son sahnesinde resmen ağladım.Çok güzel dokunaklı bir hikaye.Mucize gibi bir aşk.
El prejuicio de que una japonesa como Hiroko, la amiga de Crystal, llamará "san" a su esposo, por ejemplo (-san "-さん" se añade después del nombre de las personas es un sufijo de cortesía y respeto); existen muchas otras formas de denominar cariñosamente a alguien, ¿entonces por qué lo llama "san"?
(view spoiler)[En cuanto a la parte de violación de la chica, uno puede creer la facilidad con la que se sobrepone al rechazo de su familia, pero es completamente increíble que, después de una violación no se vean demasiados traumas en su persona.
Like that it will be a happy and a fair ending for all without extending the problem for years and years like Danielle Steel had done (I didn't like how Zeb lived for seven years without knowing his father).I didn't like also Brian's and Crystal's affair ,I wanted them to be best friends and good companions nothing more than that.
(hide spoiler)]In fact in the first chapters I liked the valley and Crystal and how Steel had described them , they had a magical feel to them and i loved it but with every single chapter I read I was even more disappointed.
In Danielle Steel's "Star", the author has tried to bring out the story of a young girl with a big dream of becoming a Hollywood star.
Love blooms when she meets the hero for the first time but the chain of unfortunate events occur after her father's death.
First of all, the blurb of the story deceived the actual content inside.
Danielle steel had tried to touch the emotional side of a reader, which might not be successful with all.
The story could have been much crispier and written with better emotions.
To be outspoken, this might not give a good impression for the first read of Danielle steel's collections.
'Star' really goes into depth of the struggles of a young girl trying to make it big in the 50s.
It shows, struggle, love, heartbreak and ache but victory in the end.
It illustrates that if you never give up on your dreams you will always get there in the end, no matter what obstacles will come your way.
The only downfall for this book was at times it dragged out a bit however, in the end it made perfect sense as to why.
Would definitely recommend if you're a lover of novels and happy endings.
Love was definitely lighting and thunder especially after reading of Spencer Hill & Crystal Wyatt's first encounter when she was only a child. Disturbing to some degree but I guess love isn't measured in numbers or is it?! Most frustrating fictional romance that I couldn't bring myself to stop reading until the very end.
One of my favorite DS novels. The country girl goes to the big city and begins her life as a young adult. She begins in a bar graduates to singer and while singing finds she can act. Hollywood here she comes. She is having an exciting career until a small mistake courts and she runs back to the valley. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
This book was given to me to read by a neighbor. It had been a long time since I had read any of her books, and can see now why I stopped. Besides being too long, the characters were not very believable and after enduring the plot, the book (no surprise) had a pat quick ending.
Out of all the Danielle Steele books I have read this is still my favourite book.
Amei
Classic DS style. A good read.
