https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10566.Lisey_s_Story
It's a "love story" done "Stephen King" style and so perfectly done that my first thought after finishing was to read the novel a second time. The characters are so genuine and universal that everyone will love them, and the story is both magical and heart-breaking at exactly the same time.
All I can say is that getting to the last page was a relief. Reading this novel was like staring at a cow for five hours.
Youngish widow going through her brilliant writer husband's papers...maybe it was a thinly veiled biography of King's wife Tabitha?
After about the 5th time the main character called her sister "Manda Bunny", the promise was not only rubbed off the book, it was replaced with a bit of sandpaper that grated directly against your nerves.
Stephen King could have done wonderful things with this book if he'd not immediately become cloying (Gott in Himmel, how many times did we need to be reminded that Lisey, the main character, and her husband Scott, the brilliant writer, had catch phrases and inside jokes and used the word "smuck" instead of the more satisfying F word?
Updated review to come...“I loved you then and I love you now and I have loved you every second in between."This is a book about Lisey Landon, the widow of a famous author, Scott Landon.
There are two main stories within the book - that of Lisey's story in the present, and that of her dead husband's life.
So many parts of the book just caused me to reread the same section over and over, finding comfort in the fact that we all experience those same feelings."Sometimes she'd go a whole day without thinking of him or missing him.
I’ve been on the outside looking in and in the minority opinion plenty of times, but I can usually see how someone could like a work, or even more frequently, respect the hard work that went in to creating a published book.Some of Stephen King’s critics have been nasty, defaming not only his writing ability but his intelligence.
This made him think of what his office would look like after he was dead, with Tabby given the unenviable task of going through her famous husband’s papers.Lisey Landon was the surviving wife of famous novelist Scott Landon.
Lisey Debusher Landon is the widow of Scott Landon, the Stephen King stand-in here, an author who achieved fame in his early 20’s and never let go, soon becoming and then remaining a best-selling novelist.
King weaves several time lines, Landon’s bizarre childhood and his relationship with his father and brother, the courtship of Landon and Lisey, an assassination attempt on Landon by a psycho, Landon’s later illness, and the present.
Does one really expect such to be absent?I enjoyed reading the book.
I will have no nightmares as a result of reading Lisey’s Story.
I've been reading a lot of "New" Stephen King lately, books that I've put off reading because I was afraid that they would not be as good as "Old" Stephen King.
Mare Winningham did a good job reading, and after a while I got used to her voices, although I think that she added a bit too much to the story.
King always has a slightly skewed way of viewing the world, and I thought it was perfectly fitting that he should describe mental illness the way he did in this book.
I keep waiting for the other shoe to drop, or the bottom to fall out.Because I know it’s coming.In the end, no matter how beautiful the novel is, I know it’s a Stephen King novel and that something grim is going on, something darker is waiting at the edges of my vision for it’s turn to float onto the page like a dark shadow.It’s just a matter of waiting for it, wading my way through Kings most literary effort yet, and waiting for the monster to show its face.I don’t understand the many negative reviews for Lisey’s Story.
Can you feel this smucking annoyance towards this smucking book?
Every great artist produces a smucking turd every now and again.
I honestly didn't care for the characters or the plot, it was not what i thought it was at all.
Throughout the whole book I just kept thinking "ok, why is she doing that?" or "ok so now we're in the past-oh wait this is the future!
But seriously, this book confused me.
I didn't understand any of the characters, and honestly I never got attached to any of them enough to care.
“She would have thought two years was enough time for the strangeness to rub off, but it wasn’t; time apparently did nothing but blunt grief’s sharpest edge so that it hacked rather than sliced.”In an interview with Rolling Stone, Stephen King named “Lisey’s Story” as the best book he ever wrote.
I can't imagine the intensity of thought it took King to write this novel (and also in the same vein - Gerald's Game).I wonder if King had dropped the supernatural from this book, if he would have replaced it with pure addiction and mental instability, while keeping the rest of the storyline, if he would have had a real literary masterpiece that his critics could not ignore.
Major bomb. & actually strikingly pretentious. The search for anything salvageable in this junkyard is an impossible task. You owe it to yourself, invest your time on something better. May possibly tie for worst Stephen King novel with "Insomnia." Or "The Tommyknockers."
But reading this required me to really be present in the moment and in the story, and especially the writing, so I noticed things that I hadn't (or had and then forgot) the first time around.
But another thing that I noticed is that there are a lot of connections and links to his previous work, meaning his stories, characters, and themes, and to his own life.
I really liked how the story was actually plotted around Amanda (even though it's not MUCH of a plot, if I'm honest) while it's the history of Scott's life and Scott and Lisey's marriage that actually helps her recover.
A mí me encantó todo el misterio que implementó King; asimismo los cambios de tiempo y la fantasía, en Boo'ya Moon.Con relación a Boo'ya Moon...
En ese mundo me encontré con una de las criaturas más espeluznantes y perturbadoras que tuve el horror de conocer...
Una vez superadas las 100 páginas olvidate de soltar el libro, porque lamento decirte que eso no va a pasar...
Se vuelve sumamente adictivo.Tiene partes —en especial cuando King trata el tema del pasado de Scott Landon— que son escalofriantes hasta los huesos.
King le dio un cierre soberbio.Gritaré para que vuelvas.
A love story. A Stephen King love story. Curious what color is your pool?
Lisey's Story, while being your typical King novel content wise, is a beautiful product conceived by a man who has spent almost half a century publicly honing his craft.
What you will get if you clickety-clack that spoilery button are this book's tie ins to other King novels, and a conspiracy theory regarding Boo-ya Moon.(view spoiler)[Conspiracy theory: I believe that Boo'ya Moon is the same place Mrs. Todd disappears to in the short story "Mrs. Todd's Shortcut." I also believe it's the same world Rose escapes into in Rose Madder.
(hide spoiler)]In summation: Other than the final Dark Tower novels, Lisey's Story was the best thing to come out of post-accident King.
The talented few – like Scott – harness their dreams and turn them into horses.”As Lisey struggles to cope with the loss of her husband, and the memories, and the constant drawing into something else, something more, something she will learn is her story, Lisey’s story, a maniac comes into her life and threatens her with a dead cat in the mailbox; he wants Scott’s stuff; he considers himself one of Scott’s biggest fans.
Did he write this for his readers, or for his wife, who knows him the way Lisey knew Scott, and still loved him for him and not for his books?
Compelling in spite of its slowness, and coloured with nostalgia, tenderness and loss, this is primarily a love story, with some vintage King touches thrown in (to be honest, those touches were interesting, but far less so than the love story, which was genuinely moving and new).
The journeys into other worlds, the madman on the rampage, the stories of unhappy, abused childhood, even the stuff about writers and their divided attitude towards inspiration, which I've always found compelling - we've all had those before.
This is the first King I'm reading in about 25 years.ETA: I don't really like it much.
I had it on my TBR list since it came out.
I suppose I read a good review of it somewhere.
I'm almost 100 pages in and feh.
Not much has happened and while I don't dislike the protagonist I find her kind of vapid and not interesting.
There is way too much made up language that is DUMB.
So that doesn't leave much, IMO.I'm stopping at page 320.
I am not wasting any more of my time on this.
I no longer care what happens.
And I really liked the idea that one way of getting back to life, to mental health, was through creative imagination, but that if you stay out there in the dream-imagination space of our brains, you remain to all intents and purposes 'sick'.It starts to get surreal when we go back to the early relationship between Lisey and her dead husband -- and it appears there was a time -- in their early time together, when something peculiar happened -- he took her momentarily into another parallel world of some kind.
Lisey's Story has a thread of fundamental wrongness going through it that keeps the suspense going -the horror side of King's narrative is strong as ever, the descriptions of the physical hardships are engrossing and captivating in a level that makes you feel terribly uncomfortable, but there's another thread of horror, a very human, everyday thread, about love and loss, and how no matter how special we might be or feel we are, we all have to reach the end of the road, and there's no coming back home after that.The characters are all fantastic.
It has the strong female protagonist that was so prominent for King in the 90's, there is graphic scenes of abuse which is a topic King covered heavily during the 90's, there is magical realism which also played a large part for King in the 90's, there are the other worlds than ours which was also featured in such 90's works like 'Rose Madder' and 'Insomnia', there is the vivid imagery that rivals both 'Insomnia' and 'Wizard & Glass', and finally, 'Lisey's Story' has the same wonderful imaginative storytelling of 'The Regulators'.
Lisey’s Story is a bit of an oddball in Stephen King’s body of work (along with Gerald’s Game from what I’ve heard, although I haven’t read it myself) because of its near absence of plot and snail-like pace.
However, what it lacks in plot, it makes up in characterization and introspection.
As for me, I find sharing Lisey’s thoughts and discovering with her bits and pieces of her late husband’s past a most fascinating and rewarding experience.
I even like the made-up language they use together, and unlike some I do not think it makes the book hard to read.
I listened to the audio version of this book, and I got so tired of Mare Winningham reading all of the ridiculous nonsense words, that I couldn't even finish it. The story went nowhere, and it was hard to care about the characters. This is one of King's worst, IMO
NOTHING scares me, but there was a point in this book where I got so freaked out I couldn't pick it up again for another month or so....it was the middle of the night and I actually called the person who loaned this to me and yelled at them something like, "Thanks a lot!!!
I am a very hard person to scare, but there was at least one section that made me shiver and not want to turn the lights out, which says a lot for me.
In the intervening years I’ve lived a little and grown up and experienced life’s little beauties and been dealt serious loss.
The scenes from Scott’s childhood are among the author’s most frightening, the quiet moments of Lisey’ contemplation in Scott’s study some of King’s most nuanced.Stephen King is a talented writer, that much is true, but I feel this novel is from another world.
In fact, I loved it so much I am now declaring it my favorite King book, and I’ve revised my top ten list:1.
Lisey’s Story2.
Not many male or female authors can write from the viewpoint of the opiste sex, but King is so good, you'll believe you are reading a female author's work.This is a must read for ever married couple out there.
But no worries King fans, there is still all of the "Kingly" scary, gruesome factors in this book as well.
He combines this epic love story with tragedy, monsters, and past doings to write in my opinion one of his best books.This one will definitely be going on my read again pile.
Now that it's said...I loved this book BUT, it was all a little bit too "smucking" lyrical at times and although this is usually one of Kings draw cards, when Lisey thinks, sometimes that rhythm becomes all too convoluted, if not, bordering on nonsense.
Even though reading it from Liseys inner thoughts, was like trying to untangle a senseless and distracting riddle at times.
If you've read this, I'm sure you'd also agree that the word "smucking" ain't going to stick ;)Liked: The word pool.
Well worth your time and patience, and afterwards, Lisey's Story will stick to you like crazy-glue whether you like it or not.
Antes de abordar esta novela, leí algunos comentarios respecto que se alejaba del estilo tradicional de Stephen King (…que era mejor, que era peor…), por lo que me quité el estigma del autor y comencé este libro sin ningún prejuicio, sólo centrándome en la historia, independiente de quien la contara.
Finalmente se llega al último cuarto del libro y por fin se entiende de qué va y se pueden juntar los numerosos cabos sueltos (aunque algunos quedan definitivamente sueltos).Considero que hubiera quedado excelente como un relato corto, pero para un libro de 600 páginas, creo que no daba.
Evo knjiga je kraj mene već nekih pola sata i svaki put kad je pogledam , vrati se ona knedla koju sam uspio na silu progutati .
Emocionalno me je toliko istrošila i mislim da nisam u mogućnosti tačno prikazati koliko mi se priča dopala .
Stvarno sam uživao .Početak jeste konfuzan , i što se same priče tiče , ali i prijevod je tu "pomogao " ( mada , da ga ne ocrnim .
Prevodilac je stvarno potrudio).
Iako priča nije King-like , ima svojih trenutaka ( Skotovo djetinsjvto me je toliko potreslo , da sam morao odložiti knjigu na neko vrijeme ) .
( po mogućnosti , čitati na engleskom !)4,5*
H ιστορία της Λίσι είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο του King που διάβασα και παραμένει το πιο αγαπημένο μου.
Η Λίσι έχει χάσει το σύζυγό της, Σκοτ, ένα πολυβραβευμένο συγγραφέα, πριν δύο χρόνια.
Ο Σκοτ ήταν ένας πολύ ιδιαίτερος άνθρωπος, ο οποίος πολλές φορές είχε την ανάγκη να ξεφεύγει από τους δαίμονές του, και τότε επισκεπτόταν ένα μέρος που αποκαλούσε Μπου'για Μουν.
Από αυτό το μέρος αντλούσε έμπνευση για τα βιβλία του, ταυτόχρονα όμως το φοβόταν.
Όσοι έχουν διαβάσει μερικά βιβλία του King θα καταλάβουν ότι πρόκειται για ένα πολύ προσωπικό βιβλίο.
