https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/230200.Paroles
Pater nosterNotre Père qui êtes aux cieuxRestez-yEt nous nous resterons sur la terreQui est quelquef
"Paroles" is the beginning of an intense relationship with the inner truth of Life, the naive curiosity of a man walking around and looking at the people, the houses, the changing landscape of a city he identifies with the whole world in an almost pantheistic sense of empathy.
Prévert's social commitment is not merely part of a political agenda: it's urgent and honest, an impulse from the depth of his soul as well as a declaration of his rational mind.
Palavras foi o seu primeiro livro de poemas o qual obteve grande sucesso, apesar, ou, por não se enquadrar nas regras "normais" deste género literário.Recorrendo a trocadilhos e aliterações, Prévert faz das palavras música; joga com elas e tece, com ironia mordaz, críticas à igreja, à guerra, à família, ao Homem...A maioria dos poemas são muito longos, ocupando várias páginas.
Seleccionei dois pequenos, de que gostei muito.
"VIDA EM FAMÍLIA A mãe faz tricôO filho faz a guerraA mãe acha isso natural E o pai?
Poema de Prévert (que não está em Palavras) na voz de Edith Piaf: Les Feuilles Morteshttps://m.youtube.com/watch?v=8SJ1QSr...
And the reader enjoys it.There really is no analogous poet in American poetry to Prevert.You could create a Frankenstein's monster Prevert by synthesizing several American poets (probably a concoction of several early New York School Poets and certainly a brew including Kenneth Koch) I suppose, but it still wouldn't be Prevert.I would tend to think of painters who remind me of Prevert sooner than other writers and even these would probably be French: Leger, Chagall (okay not originally French but...) and possibly somebody like Foujita.
It's more than a little kick in the ass for anybody who wants to sit at the Penelope loom, man or woman.This poem so reminds me of Steinarr's poem with the man on the beach, where life is similarly laid out in quick flashes like this.
Beautiful poems that speak of what has been lost - what should stay lost - and what should be found after the war.
37* * *In merrygoround of liesThe red horse of your smileGoes roundAnd I stand rooted thereWith the sad whip of realityAnd I have nothing to sayYour smile is as trueAs my home truths- The Red Horse, pg.
51* * *Near the end of an extremely important discoursethe great man of state stumblingon a beautiful hollow phrasefalls over itand undone with gaping mouthgaspingshows his teethand the dental decay of his peaceful reasoningexposes the nerve of warthe delicate question of money- The Discourse on Peace, pg.
love the poemsles mi feuilleton-mi nouvelle-mi poeme, pas trop
Ce sont magnifiques poèmes. C'est tout!LE CANCREIl dit non avec la têtemais il dit oui avec le cœuril dit oui à ce qu'il aimeil dit non au professeuril est debouton le questionneet tous les problèmes sont poséssoudain le fou rire le prendet il efface toutles chiffres et les motsles dates et les nomsles phrases et les piègeset malgré les menaces du maîtresous les huées des enfants prodigesavec des craies de toutes les couleurssur le tableau noir du malheuril dessine le visage du bonheur -Jacques Prévert
Notre père qui est aux cieux.Restez-y.Et nous, nous resterons sur la terre All-time fav. The reason I like Prevert is the same reason I like Brassens: provocative, non-conformist, talented. Rebel.
(Poesia che fra l' altro conoscevo da molto prima e che spesso recitavo fra me e me in quelle giornate che ritenevo inutile e tediose nella mia vita da studente liceale , sulla soglia dell' odiato edificio , quando fuori magari c' era un tempo da gitarella nei prati )E altre fra cui anche le mie preferite che parlano di un sentimento che Prévert ,come tutti poeti, conosce molto bene.
One of my favorite poets, Prevert constructs simple lines with unforgettable images..."Where are you going, handsome jailer with the key that's touched in blood?""In the merry-go-round of lies the red horse of your smile goes round"If you like good poetry and you haven't read him yet you owe it to yourself to discover his work.
An old classic and my favorite book of poetry ever :)
One of the best books of poems I've read in a while. Startling image after startling image, mixed with pith and wit.
I read this book of poems again and again every couple of years. They are so moving, both the original french and the English translations. I don't know if I can adequately describe it. The poems make me feel exhilaration like the world is mine to conquer, but at the same time that exhilaration turns into overwhelming grief and anxiety. Then when read in the context of children and teenagers coming to age in an occupied France, it's hard for me to stop reading it like I'm trying to breathe the words into my lungs.
A book of poetry might take a whole lifetime to read, bit by bit, line by line. so far I've read about twenty of its poems, but I won't be "currently reading" it non-stop, I go back to it sometimes. So let it be shelved as read.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο έχει μέσα μερικά αριστουργήματα, έχει και πολλά που είναι στα όρια του τι μπορεί να θεωρηθεί ποίηση.
2.5/5بارباراتذكري بارباراكانت تمطر من دون توقّف في برست ذاك اليوموكنت تمشين باسمةمُتفتّحة مبتهجة سائ

TO PAINT THE PORTRAIT OF A BIRDFirst paint a cagewith an open doorthen paintsomething prettysomethin
Matching Soundtrack :  Les Feuilles Mortes - Yves Montand
Delightful poetry.
I often have a hard time with "modern" poetry in that I can't discern a metre or rhythm, and the form is often ignored entirely, but most of Prévert's work in this collection creates its own rhythm out of the repetitions and word selection - it's just delightful!I especially enjoyed Rue de Seine, Le Retour au Pays, Familiale, Chanson dans le Sang, Déjeuner du Matin, Le Désespoir est Assis Sur un Banc, Pour Faire le Portrait d'un Oiseau, Chanson, Chanson du Geôlier, Fête Foraine, Chez la Fleuriste, Le Bouquet, and Le Combat Avec L'Ange.

Je dois admettre ne pas être fanatique de la poésie en général, mais le plus que je lisais, le plus que j'adorais! Une mention particulière à ses poèmes anti-militaristes et anti-cléricalistes...des vers qui restent avec vous longtemps après avoir terminé le recueil. Magnifique.
Pas un grand fan. J'en ai bien aimé quelques uns mais globalement, je pense pas que j'y aurais perdu à jamais le lire.
Prevert captures the every day in all of its beauty and ugliness, joy and pain.
Some of the most beautiful and heartbreaking poetry that you will ever read.
reading Prevert slanted my brain enough to never come back to a poem and feel ashamed for incorporating subtlety - the indiscreet.
Un style unique qui mélange lyrisme et jeux de mots, pour offrir des textes poétiques qui jouent aussi avec l'humour et pour certains une forme de critique sociale est également présente. Un style particulier qui m'a beaucoup plus, certains textes/poèmes plus que d'autres, mais un auteur qui mérite qu'on s'y attarde!
Uno dei pochissimi libri di poesie, paroles, che sia mai riuscita a finir di leggere.
Maar als een van de eerste gedichten begint met 'Notre Père qui êtes aux cieux / Restez-y' ('Onze Vader die in de hemelen zijt, blijf daar maar'), dan weet je dat je zo veel mogelijk mensen kennis moet laten maken met dit meesterwerk.
Het is van begin tot eind genieten met voornamelijk humoristische gedichten in vrij simpel Frans.
