https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9628.Long_After_Midnight
The October Game was my favorite story in Long After Midnight.
Unfortunately, many of the rest of the stories didn't resonate with me.
Perhaps I read this collection too close to The Martian Chronicles?
I couldn't help but compare the two and The Chronicles always came out ahead.
I'm still happy that I read this collection, as my goal is to read all of Ray Bradbury's work.
I guess not all of his stories are going to knock the ball out of the park, but a mediocre Bradbury story is still better than a good one from most other authors.
Recommended for fans of science fiction, dark fiction and short stories.
& Other Stories4* The October Country4* The Golden Apples of the Sun3* A Sound of Thunder and Other Stories4* Stories of Ray Bradbury4* Death Is a Lonely Business3* Farewell Summer5* Long After Midnight2* A Graveyard for Lunatics: Another Tale of Two Cities (Crumley Mysteries, #2)TR Driving BlindTR The Day It Rained Forever3* The Fog Horn4* Selected from Dark They Were and Golden-Eyed 3* Bradbury Thirteen5* Fantastic Tales of Ray Bradbury4* The Smile
His almost effortless ability to open a door back to this time in a person's life is amazing, and he exercises it quite a bit.Perhaps most famous is Ray Bradbury, the science fiction writer, most notable for The Martian Chronicles and endless other stories about Mars, postulating the victories and failures of Man's conquest of the Red Planet as seen through the lens of America's previous history in the settlement of the North America continent and our view of ourselves in the space-age, circa 1940's sci-fi and 1950's nuclear science.
I loved this collection. Bradbury truly was a master word-smith. Some of his lines are so unique they shouldn't work, but they do, spectacularly. It's hard to choose a favourite story in this anthology. I honestly loved them all.
There is a lot of sentimentality, bordering on schmaltziness, such as in The Pumpernickel, basically about a middle-aged man remembering his childhood friends and how they drifted apart:"In the hard, shiny crust of the bread, the boys at Druce's Lake had cut their names: Tom, Nick, Bill, Alec, Paul, Jack.
And the lake was always twice as good to reach as it would be later in life when you arrived immaculate, clean, and un-rumpled."A lot of the sci-fi stories in this collection are also heavily allegorical, with a tone ranging from Catholic to mystical, as in "G.B.S.
On the cover of this book, above Ray Bradbury's name, is written this line: "The World's Greatest Living Science Fiction Writer." This edition was published in 1976, so this may have been true then (although I'm sure there are many that would disagree with the "greatest"), but now that Ray Bradbury has died, we may say he was our greatest...what?
He wrote more than science fiction.
So, like Kurt Vonnegut, there was no easy box to put him into, and so into the science fiction box he and Vonnegut went.
In fact, most writers with major reputations and long careers build those reputations in relatively brief periods when they create the works by which they will be remembered.Ray Bradbury will not be remembered by the material in “Long After Midnight,” but the strengths and weaknesses of the volume seem to me to reveal much about Bradbury as a writer.There are twenty-two stories in “Long After Midnight.” Here is the Table of Contents:The Blue BottleOne Timeless SpringThe Parrot Who Met PapaThe Burning ManA Piece of WoodThe MessiahG.B.S.—Mark VThe Utterly Perfect MurderPunishment Without CrimeGetting Through Sunday SomehowDrink Entire: Against the Madness of CrowdsInterval in SunlightA Story of LoveThe WishForever and the EarthThe Better Part of WisdomDarling AdolfThe Miracles of JamieThe October GameThe PumpernickelLong After MidnightHave I Got a Chocolate Bar For You!When reading through this collection it’s frequently obvious, even without looking up the copyright dates, which stories were new to this mid-’70s volume and which were leftover tales from his earlier period.
Got it done by midnight! This is a group of short stories written in true "Bradbury" style. Always love his stuff!
His visual depictions are some of the brights and most visually mesmerizing of any I've ever read, particularly his depictions of people being reduced to atomized, beautifully brilliant bits (which happens more often than you'd think in Bradbury stories).
For Bradbury, the romance and power of a rocket ship seems to be of a same kind with the romance and power of human affection or vibrant memory.But that doesn't mean he doesn't get sci-fi.
Sci-fi has always had a deep and vibrant intellectual blend, with greats like Bradbury, Heinlein, and Le Guin all achieving critical and popular success writing unconventional characters and stories decades before the current liberal crop graduated from high school.
Will add reviews for each story as I make my way through, not necessarily in order:*** DRINK ENTIRE: AGAINST THE MADNESS OF CROWDSOne of the stranger shorts I've read by Bradbury.
One of the best closing lines in a short story, ever, period.**** LONG AFTER MIDNIGHTShort, but beautifully written and effective tale of melancholy and the lifelong battle we all fight against it...I think.
It may have had a topical subtext for the times in which it w written as well, but that aspect seems diminished with age, if it ever existed at all.
This book is what made me love Ray Bradbury. The Blue Bottle is one of the most brilliant stories ever written. The 2 geniuses of the century...Rod Serling and Ray Bradbury.
This book definitely contained some of Bradbury’s darker work, but it is beautiful nonetheless
A great collection of some of his short stories.
Would have given it 6 stars if I could
My second favorite book of short stories (Pump Six is my #1), I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone. Bradbury's stories carry so much variety that they always shock you and never get old.
Is this what happens when famous authors need to fill up a collection and use old stuff that wasn't good enough to be published the first time around?Individual Ratings Below.
Why not Nazis!The Miracles of Jamie - 2/5The sad but true process of growing up.The October Game - 5/5Absolutely perfect Halloween story.The Pumpernickel - 1/5Ray Bradbury, looking back across the years at his youth.Long After Midnight - 3/5Empathy.Have I Got a Chocolate Bar for You!
From Sci-fi to fantasy to mild horror, they have an amazing range of tone, rythm and flow, and whenever you're in the mood for a quick but still amazing read that will most likely mess up your mind for the next few hours, this is the right collection to choose (or any form of collection by Ray Bradbury, as I'm afraid this was a version only published in Italy).I was in high school the first time I read this, and I remember thinking that this man's style was so awesome, I would have liked to write like him.
I was lucky to find a first edition of this one.
Although sometimes Bradbury seems a little tame and dreamy, some of these stories have a very contemporary bite.
The title story, "Long After Midnight", would do well to be re-published in the New Yorker today.I also really liked "Interval in Sunlight", which I have not seen anywhere else and which was first published here.
Some of the stories, particularly the SF ones, feel a little outdated and even heavy-handed as they make their points, but the more subtle ones more than compensate.
This is heavy reading, but appropriate for young adults.
I found this collection very uneven, with some stories that left me totally uninterested and others that were better, but it ended with a story that is one of my all time favourites, ever, by any author, and so I must rate it the more highly for that. I would pick this up again, anytime, just knowing that I get to enjoy Have I Got a Chocolate Bar for You! at the end.
What if you thought that everything you ever wanted could be found inside a blue bottle?
What if your first few weeks on the job as a policeman found you questioning your profession, and by extension, society?
What if the scent of chocolate in a confessional box reignited the passion of a grumpy priest, to save someone's soul, and thereby save a little bit of his own?You almost can't go wrong with a book or story by Bradbury.
Each story had a unique message for the reader and you always came away a bit more thoughtful or curious about the world we live in.
My well read copy is the 1976 one with the fantastic cover art.
The stories are already published in magazines mostly from 1950.
We get a couple of really good horror stories.
A few Scifi.
The rest are general fiction.
Some that stood out for me : The Utterly Perfect Murder.
What if you could go back to your old hometown & kill your adolescent nemesis?
Interval In Sun about an abusive relationship.
A Story Of Love.
Adolescent boy in love with his teacher.
Although there are some gems, for the most part, these stories were just ok.
Read, laugh, and be disgusted.Anyhow, the creation of Long After Midnight went down something like this: by 1976 Bradbury had 16 short story anthologies to his credit, but in the publication of those works there were a few stories that got left out of the mix.
Now imagine that the recording of Fried Green Tomatoes has been spliced with alternating snippets and vignettes cut from a Lifetime movie, and you’ll have a fair approximation of what reading Long After Midnight was like.Overall, I give the book three out of five stars.
Ray Bradbury has written some of my favorite books, including short story collections, but I just couldn't get into "Long After Midnight." There are some good stories here, but there were also some I just didn't care for. Still, it's Bradbury, so maybe I'm being too critical. His warm, nostalgic manner shines through, whether he's speculating about space travel or remembering childhood, and his sparse, rhetorical writing style remains almost poetic.
Probably 50/50 stories that resonated/didn't, for me. "The October Game" is a standout. Classic Bradbury, with an ending that makes your hair stand on end. Others felt more like "sketches" though the writing was still good.
I normally LOVE Bradbury, but this collection fell kinda short. I couldn’t connect with many of the short stories at all, and most of them were forgettable. So sad because I usually adore Bradbury’s work. Would actually give about 2.5 stars. 🌟
(Про Секрет мудрости)Эта прекрасная история пропитана вином из одуванчиков и летним отчаянием... Как же я люблю Брэдбери!
Some deadwood, some surprises. Sci-fi, horror, fantasy, coming-of-age, two gay (yes!) stories. Overall, not bad for a scattered anthology.
So fantastic! I could read it again right now.
Bradbury is to writing as fine dining is to food. It's an experience. Give it a try.
This is, by far, my favorite collection of Ray Bradbury's short stories.
Ray Bradbury is a genius of the short story whose grandeur has only ever been matched by perhaps Jonathan Carroll, if even that.Ray Bradbury is also a genius of horror.Stephen King has said that October Country is the best book that showcases this often-forgotten talent of Ray Bradbury, but I defy him to say that Long After Midnight is far better.
This collection showcases the full talent that Ray Bradbury had, as well as the versatility of his style.
The horror stories are chilling, the sci-fi stories touching and full of literary wonder.
