https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/314657.Southern_Mail_Night_Flight
Por isso foi com imensa alegria que descobri este livro no Continente e o devorei num instante."Voo Noturno" descreve a vida de um piloto que tem uma grande responsabilidade entre mãos.
É impressionante a descrição detalhada que o autor faz do modo de vida da viação.
Como as mulheres sofriam sem notícias dos seus maridos.
E o modo como o correiro era transportado podendo demorar messes a chegar o seu destino." Correio do Sul" centra-se no drama de Guiuvene que vive um casamento frutrado e tenta encontrar a felicidade com o amante Jacques.Ao contrário do que alguns dizem, não considero o livro seja de difícil entendimento nem de difícil compreensão.
Serviu-me para compreender que este autor pode escrever livros mais adultos e magistrais.
Não consegui de maneira nenhuma gostar da escrita de Saint-Exupéry aqui. Para além de ter sido bastante difícil decifrar o que realmente estava a acontecer em qualquer um dos livros, ambos claramente baseados nas experiências do autor enquanto piloto, nada me cativou.
Two utterly remarkable novels in one volume.I read Southern Mail when I went to Macedonia earlier this year.
A friend of mine, the wonderful Brankica Bozinovska is a flight traffic controller in Skopje Airport, and I had travelled to her country to visit her, so the theme of this novel seemed totally appropriate.
It's a wonderful piece of writing.I read Night Flight a few months later.
Southern Mail is very good but this second novel is absolutely stunning, one of the best books I've ever read.
I want to be not only a brilliant writer but also to have incredible adventures!
Not easy to follow sometimes, but the unique style is commendable.
На свершения человека толкают неблагоприятные обстоятельства. У сытого и всем довольного не возникнет желания изменить жизнь, ему не захочется делать сверх имеющегося. Так и Экзюпери стал пробовал себя в беллетристике из-за случавшихся с окружающими его людьми катастроф. Антуан старался примерить на себя жизни других, ему казалось, что это у него получалось. Если верить сторонним источникам, то современники горячо приветствовали его литературные пробы, хотя читатель знает, сам Экзюпери продолжал бороться с критиками, порицавшими стремление молодого автора к чрезмерному привнесению в сюжеты рабочих моментов.(c) Trounin
This book is made up of two stories that are to Antoine de Saint-Exupery's sentimental style, and I've enjoyed both of them (Night Flight slightly more than Southern Mail). The stories have rich imagery largely due to the author's personal experiences in aviation, and cover themes of love, risk, adventure, tragedy, and death. Offers a nice glimpse into the work of the team behind the airmail service, and particularly into the life of airmail pilots. And the simultaneous nobility of the job and the futility of it.
Short and easy book, but very cool history. You can tell that Saint-Exupéry used to be a pilot because of the personal descriptions of the sentiments around flying at nights at that time. I bought it because I love “The Little Prince” and I wanted to read something else from Saint-Exupéry and I was not disappointed
The stars are really more for Night Flight (which blends adventure with a thoughtful look at why we risk people's lives for trivial things (like mail)) than for the softer, gooier Southern Mail. Helps you rethink/recognize the sacrifices behind the world which the past built for us. Still might like Wind, Sand, Stars better, though.
and what of the ostriches, who close their eyes in self-defense?perhaps the only truth is the peace to be found in books"To hell with your lights! I've got the moon."We enter the night: beasts, man and things
Saint Exupery's first two novelle packaged together, which I bought at the Galignani bookstore when I went to visit C in Paris for the end of her business trip last month.
Some hauntingly beautiful and sad meditations on the transcendent majesty and terror of delivering oneself up to and intruding upon the sky, and I couldn't help but think of last summer's Air France 447, the lost Patagonia plane in here being a fictional forebear in a way.
I wish I could daydream the way Saint Exupery writes.
It was cool to read this while in Morocco and flying over the places mentioned in the book.. Marakesh, Agadir...etc. and staying at a hotel that surprisingly had little figurines of Le Petit Prince everywhere. I probably should have read them with more heart though. I was expecting more from Saint-Exupery. There are some interesting thoughts and sentences in the books, both exploring the human condition though with Southern Mail, it's the vulnerabilities rather than the strengths that I perceived in Night Flight. They will both require another reading.
These two works cover the pioneering era of airmail. The author's experience as a pilot is obvious yet it is combined with rich imagery amidst strong characters. Nothing is missed in detailing the victory, the bureaucracy, the heroes, the futility, the drive, the loved ones, and the tragedy of flying the mail in North Africa and South America in the 1920s. A wonderful book where the magic of The Little Prince is not lost but transported to a completely different genre with relative ease.
I find Night Flight to be one of the most moving and satiating works of literature I have ever encountered. St-Exupéry's language (in translation by Curtis Cate) has simple austerity and profound humanity. Just as good as Wind Sun and Stars. Southern Mail, written much earlier, is nowhere near the whittled down brilliance of the other work. But it is very interesting for a St-Exupéry fan to find the differences in style, and certainly an enjoyable by anyone else as well.
Brief philosophical novel(s) (long short stories really) on the nature of risk, duty, death, love, loss, bad weather, small planes, and mail delivery. Set in the Sahara/Andes in the late 20's.
Antoine de Saint - Exepery used his experience as aviator to write great books.
Infelizmente, apaixonada pela escrita pura do Principezinho, pensei encontrar na minha segunda tentativa com Exupery uma paisagem similar. No entanto, estas duas obras pouco têm de similar com o esperado; foram duas obras que me seduziram muito pouco, muito técnicas para o meu entender, muito sentimentais mas num emaranhado muito complicado de ler. Nota-se o amor puro de Exupery pela aviação, por estas personagens e, a meu ver, por essa mesma razão todo o sentimento escrito só por ele poderá ser entendido.
