https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18018.Jill_the_Reckless
PG!Throw away your telephones, televisions, lovers, partners, chocolates (except Lindt), latest wardrobes (definitely Crocs), and your jewelry, and cars and bicycles.In a Wodehouse world you only need your eyes and brain and your already cultivated reading skills.It is time now to dedicate your free, newly unencumbered hours to PGW’s works.Get them all, the price is right, and begin reading.I, the dumbest amongst us, am challenging you to upgrade your life.‘Jill the Reckless' is a must read, but then again all his books must be read.This particular book, I finished in two days.And I read the Mandarin version of it with my Moo Goo Gai Pan, in a white take-away box, a chopstick away from my mouth.Okay, it wasn’t in any Chinese dialect, but I am dying for the revival of Moo Shoo Anything and other dishes with half the amount of fat.
Fun, fun, fun. Read again aloud with Nancy in March 2018.
I almost bailed after the first chapter or so because I just wasn't clicking with Derek Underhill and his mother and only Freddie Rooke's affability (jolly good chap that Last of the Rookes, despite being a bit of a lightweight in the intellect department) and the promise of meeting that "reckless" Jill kept me going.
Without giving too much away, I'll just say Wodehouse gets to shine his spotlight on the musical theater stage and it's so much fun because he has so much personal experience in that milieu and he said his novels are rather like musical comedies, so it's a perfect match.
I've read a lot of Wodehouse, and I think this gem from 1920 is one of his best in the transatlantic-romantic-comedy genre, in which characters move between New York and London and across social classes, and conflicts of economic survival are overshadowed by the struggle of true love to conquer all.
One of Wodehouse's greatest assets is his gift for establishing tone, and this is aided by the marvelous range of familiar characters he uses across novels, particularly effective here.
Lots of comedy of errors mishaps and especially fun for those who love the smell of greasepaint and a playful look at life in the New York theatre in the early 20th century.
Jill the Reckless is my favorite novel by P.G. Wodehouse, which is high praise indeed.
This book has more depth than the Jeeves books, but the same brilliant word play and satire.
Read this book for an inside look at the New York theater scene in the early 1920s and for an uplifting tale of a young woman who wants to make it on her own.
(The original title was "The Little Warrior.") One chapter is narrated by a parrot.
It's one of the funniest chapters ever written.The books in the Collector's Wodehouse editions are beautifully designed, with gorgeous covers and a pleasure to hold.
Not only did I have some issues with the narrator David Ian Davies but there were also some technical problems.
An example:"Here, a composer who had not got an interpolated number in the show ...
had not got an interpolated number in the show ...
was explaining to another composer ..."Narrator David Ian Davies was a disappointment.
of Mrs. Peagrim's hired orchestra."But worst was the use of a pronounced Irish accent for Derek for no reason.
Not only is this character not Irish, but his mother is voiced with an English accent so it isn't even consistent.
If anyone needs proof that Wodehouse is a feminist, this is the book they should read. This isn't radical, firebrand feminism, but the sensible, practical one. Not only the female characters but the key male characters in this are also feminists. (Please note that I use feminism in its best, most accommodating, practical sense.) Apart from being a topping plot, Jill The Reckless (or The Little Warrior) is humourous (of course), brilliantly written (never doubted that either) and just what you need to get your spirits soaring.
Wodehouse delivers as usual with this. It was predictable in some ways, what with featuring grim matriarchs and bumbling British gentlemen, but it did also put the spotlight on the world of musical productions, and that was certainly interesting. Loved it!
In which Wodehouse puts a heroine center stage.
(Another good line: "It was a poetic drama, and the audience, though loath to do anybody an injustice, was beginning to suspect that it was written in blank verse.") And that may have been a little bit what Wodehouse was trying to do here.
The book as a whole has some good moments, but overall not top of the line for Wodehouse.
The opening chapters suggest that this will be classic Wodehouse, featuring some highly entertaining scenarios, but after the main characters leave England for America and become involved with a theatrical production, the story takes a nosedive.Many a time I found myself skipping big paragraphs that have little to offer.
Some of the rehearsal sequences were pure tedium.Luckily the title character is entertaining – or at least she is when taken away from the theatre and given the opportunity to shine.
Most of these, however, occur in the opening chapters, ultimately growing scarce once Jill lands in America, and rarer still when the confounded theatre pops up, dash it!Overall, not P.
Jill Mariner is engaged to Derek Underhill.
What better match could be made?
This match depended, alas to a certain extent to the will of Lady Underhill, Derek’s mother.
Lady Underhill pushes her son to break off the engagement and this “Dear Jill” letter comes almost simultaneously with the news that her Uncle Chris (Major Christopher Selby) has lost all her fortune in the stock market.
The further life, loves and tribulations of our heroine are sure to fascinate the most demanding reader.
It is sure to prick the taste buds of most readers and leave them salivating for more.
When Jill Mariner is dumped by her rich, pompous fiancé and loses all her money on the same day, she decides to cross the ocean to New York with her rapscallion uncle Chris.
After a short stay with some relations on Long Island, she ends up on Broadway, in the chorus of a new musical and having an unexpected new romance.
I thought the book was a little overlong and could have been tightened; it feels a little rambling in places, particularly during the Long Island interlude, which connects the London and New York parts of the book but isn't terribly interesting in and of itself.
A romantic comedy, in the same vein as “A Damsel in Distress”, and with Wodehouse’s trademark style of writing - light, succinct, with timely humor and spot-on similies. In fact, I enjoyed his prose as much as the story itself. And like all romantic comedies, you can be assured that everything will turn out fine in the end, but it was a fun, engaging and comfortable read nonetheless. Definitely one of Wodehouse’s less-known novels, but one that is worth reading.
This is a really great early Wodehouse! So much fun.
Classic Wodehouse!
A typical Wodehouse novel this - quirky characters, misunderstandings galore, silliness and complications until it all finally turns right!
I liked Jill - she’s intelligent, independent and ingenious, much too good for Mr. Derek Underhill to whom she is engaged at the start.
As the story progressed and took the regular twists and turns one has come to expect from a Wodehouse plot, I sat back and enjoyed the rollercoaster of events and emotions 😄Plenty of chuckles in this one and some laugh-out-loud moments.
Topping. Corky. Absolutely strongly recommend along with coffee and a snug blanket. Maybe taken three times a day but better still is to finish it off in one go. Miracle cure for the monotony on everyday life.
One thing about PG Wodehouse books: No matter how casual the writing, you can be assured of a wonderful read. I won't claim that this book is among his best works, but it definitely includes some genius sentences, which you are sure to want to read, and re-read, and laugh out loud.
After a good read you are in some way wiser.The author had immense experience, in Broadway entertainments. A rather straightforward love story, will she won't she, is turned into a delightful read by frequent trips through bygone days of vaudeville. Loved it.
Delightful and pleasant read, with lots of Gilbert and Sullivan Easter eggs peppered throughout for anybody who cares to go looking.Also, this book has some passages of startlingly beautiful writing and true emotion--not necessarily things I expect from Wodehouse, so a nice surprise!
Roman-komedi yang bego-bego-kocak ^..^Aku lebih suka pasangan "si cowok dodol x aktris" itu ketimbang tokoh utamanya (^ ^) Kocak banget, mulai dari perjumpaan sampe kesalahpahaman di antara mereka, sampe-sampe (view spoiler)[ceweknya ngelamar si cowok XDD (hide spoiler)]
Great early Wodehouse, a fun satire of early 20th century showbusiness.
Wodehouse, always delightful,sometimes too predictable in cookie-cutter formula. But if you're in the mood...perfect. This one is from 1920.
Fun Wodehouse fluff about a girl who finds herself suddenly penniless. There's the lovable, yet clueless, young gentleman, the balanced hero, and the stereotyped American girl. All in all, good fun.
One of my favorite yet!
Have a grand time reading about Jill's ups and downs and how she overcomes them in yet another humorous adventure by Wodehouse...
A great story.
Books don't get much better than this. Like a grown-up version of Enid Bayton.
Loved it. Lots of fun with Jill getting herself all tangled up, but finding true love in the end. To many coincidences to make it plausible, but a fun story. Listened to it on Librivox.
