https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17562900-night-broken
2.5 stars - SpoilersI really didn't like this installment, mainly because I pretty much hated every character (especially Adam and Christy)… The only ones I didn't mind were Jesse, Tad, and Warren… Even Mercy irritated me with her overly understanding Mary Sue attitude towards Adam and his ex.-What's what: Adam's ex wife (Christy) has a crazy psycho stalker after her, Mercy and co have to protect her.
On top of that, Mercy has to deal with the fact that Christy wants Adam back.-I couldn't stand all the bitchy female characters, literally every secondary female character hated Mercy, the only ones that didn't were Adam's daughter and Honey (to a certain extent).
Adam happily let Christy play wife and take over Mercy's house.4.
You can always count on Patty Briggs to deliver quality story (imo) and Night Broken was no exception.Bare plot: Christy, Adam's ex wife is running from a nasty stalker, so she decided to seek protection with Adam and his Pack.
Unfortunately for Mercy, stalker in question is dangerous supernatural who can end them all and Christy just won't take the hint that there is a new Alpha's Mate in Columbia Basin pack.
When blurb for this book was released my main concern was how is Patty going to handle whole Christy thing.
I loved this one as much as the others with one exception....CHRISTY!
It ends up he's some fire god that she awakens and has to come crawling back to the pack and live with Mercy and Adam until they can help her.
A Gray Lord wants Mercy to get the staff back from Coyote.
You have to read the books to know about the staff :).
I love him :) A new character is introduced, although I don't think he is coming back.
I loved the book as usual!
Every book has an end but this one shouldn't ... I can read forever. MY THOUGHTS ABOUT CHRISTY   Just kill her already . Most hateable character of historyCoyote and gary was my favorite.  They were better than mercy and adam :D mercy was too tame about christy's actions. Blue shampoo revenge thing wasn't enough . Not even close. And adam was unresponsive about her actions too. he banned her from hospital! what a big deal alpha man!! It was an awesome book. I love every word of it. I love you pa
They were better than mercy and adam :D mercy was too tame about christy's actions.
Harika ötesi bir seri.
Mercy thompson gelmiş geçmiş en sert kadın karakterler arasında elena ve hunter kiss ile yarışacak kapasitede bir karakter.
Adam'ın eski eşi jesse'nin annesi.
Kanarya adalarından bir yanardağ ruhunun insana bürünmüş haliyle yatmış ve guyoata onun kendi ruh eşi olduğuna inanmış.
Tabi bu tehlikeli ruh ona sert davranınca christy çareyi adam'a kaçıp yardım istemekte buluyor.
Adam ve mercy'nin evine gelip saklanıyor .
Kısacası christy'nin pisliğini yine mercy temizlemek zorunda kalıyor.
Gary gülenköpek var birde :D coyote'nin oğlu yani mercy'nin üvey kardeşi olmuş oluyor böylece.
This is an example of urban fantasy at it's finest. I hate to say it, but I've given up on a lot of the series in the adult UF genre that I used to love. Why?Well, it seems that after a few kick-ass books, they turn into paranormal romance...or worse. Take the Anita Blake series for instance. The first few books had a badass heroine that rocked, and then the series transitioned into shitty erotica.That's not what I signed up for.I wanted magic and mayhem! Not elongated nipples and ten foot were
And if you haven't given it a chance yet, I'd highly recommend that you remedy that, 'cause you honestly can't do better than the Mercy Thompson series.So.In Night Broken, you get an introduction to the ex-wife and a lava monster.You'd think the volcano god would be the scariest, but you'd be wrong.
He's definitely not going anywhere anytime soon.In the end, it comes down to Mercy's natural coyote instinct to survive, and her willingness to think outside of the box that saves the day.But I really wouldn't expect anything less of her.P.S.The last line of the book?
This installation of the Mercy Thompson urban fantasy series is noteworthy for two things: Adam's ex-wife Christy comes back into town, begging for protection from a stalker but also trying to steal Adam's attention and the werewolf pack's sympathy and loyalty away from Mercy, because that's just how Christy rolls.
Part of it was that I'm tired of the plotline where Mercy is still trying to win over the loyalty of so many members of the pack, who dislike having a coyote shifter as part of the werewolf pack.
This book is fantastic. I loved every minute, every word and every page. The set-up promises an emotionally tense situation for the pack, Mercy and Adam. This could have been done poorly but it wasn't -- Briggs writes the history and the complexity of Adam's ex combing back to town so well. Have you been missing Samuel? Stefan? Wulfe? Tad? The crew is back. Full review to come closer to release date but damn -- good stuff.Q&A today at Badass Book Reviews: http://badassbookreviews.com/intervie...
4-4.5 stars It’s been a few years since I’ve read a Mercy Thompson book. When the 9th book came out and my husband read it, I was reminded I still needed to read book 8! I started this one on audio and as always, love the narrator that voices Mercy. Even though it had been a while since I’ve been in Mercy’s world, it all came back to me as I started reading. I’ve been reading these books for a decade now and these characters are special to me. Mercy will forever be one of my favorite heroines. W
It’s been a few years since I’ve read a Mercy Thompson book.
I started this one on audio and as always, love the narrator that voices Mercy.
Even though it had been a while since I’ve been in Mercy’s world, it all came back to me as I started reading.
I’ve been reading these books for a decade now and these characters are special to me.
There is drama in the pack, due to Christy, and drama she brings with her in the form of a (not so) human male… things get crazy, but as always, Mercy stays strong and uses that fight she has within her.
We're moving from one revelation to the next, learning more about some characters - with a few surprising me hugely - along the way.I don't want to rant anymore, like I did when I first finished this book, but I still do hope that Christy goes away and never returns.
I can't wait to see the consequences of some of the choices that were made here.I think that most fans of the series will hate the main aspect of the book - Christy trying to worm her way back into Adam's, and the pack's, life - and I can't blame them.
Baby Mama Drama Rama! Review + Giveaway 3/6/2014-3/16/2014 When a book is quotable, I'm gonna quote!  "Adam snorted as he pulled on a faded green t-shirt that said "I Heart Coyotes." Yet another sign that folding my clean clothes wasn't too big a price to pay to make him happy. He didn't have any "I Heart Christy " shirts--or I would have burned them already."   "I thought we should apply that kind of thinking to the matter of Cristy's stalker." He gave me a skeptical look. "No, really," I said
"Adam snorted as he pulled on a faded green t-shirt that said "I Heart Coyotes." Yet another sign that folding my clean clothes wasn't too big a price to pay to make him happy.
And Adam wouldn't be the Adam that Mercy knows and loves if it wasn't in his nature to help others, especially the mother of his child.The ex, Christy, is only safest in Adam's house and with his pack even though several things aren't quite adding up.
But one thing is as clear as day, Christy wants Adam back and isn't afraid to play dirty to get him.
Even more frustrating is that most of the pack, including Adam, talk about how manipulative Christy is but they ALL fall for it over and over again.
I would have to say that 75% of the time, he did the right thing and went with Mercy but it's the other 25% that just slays me.
Mr. Weirdo figures since Adam has his woman, he's going to take Mercy.
One of my all time favorite things about this series is the Walking Stick.
I'm positive Christy is going to be around...I'm just hoping that Adam mans up a bit more.
Re-read March 30th 2017I think I hated Christy even more the 2nd time around!
Mercy deserves a medal for not killing her!As usual with the Mercy Thompson series, I was glued to the pages.
I detested Christy (Adam's ex-wife and master manipulator) and I dreaded her bit in the story.
I do wonder why the heck he let Christy answer his phone so many times, though!
Mercy shined the whole way through, but I wouldn't have minded if she was a tad more petty and mean to the ex-bitch, but that would've given power to Christy's attempts to undermine Mercy's standing with both Adam and the pack.
There are various things in the world that I have a fairly M-E-H reaction to, but mostly it's either "OMGILOVEIT!" or "OMGWTF?!" This is especially true about certain types of situations I come across in the books I read, and what is the #1 thing I hate most in the world with the fire of thousand suns??EX-DRAMA.
Just in case you missed it the first time, here it is again:Now. That being said, my father instilled several life-lessons throughout my adolescence by repeating a few key phrases over and over (and over) again, the most important being "WAR EAGLE," and the most pertinent being, "If you're going to do something, do it right."I don't know if Patricia Briggs is just too nice of a person to create a truly hideous attempt of Adam-thievery, but (IMO) her effort left something to be desired.
The return of the ex.That's right, Adam's ex-wife is the main foil of this story and I've got to say it felt kind of unusual for a relationship factor to take center stage in one of these books.
But at its core, the biggest enemy was Christy herself and the threat she posed to Mercy's place in her family and in her pack.The problems start when Christy calls Adam to ask for protection from a threatening ex-lover.
But this book is about the danger Christy represents in Mercy's life.
Christy wants Adam back? Mercy's gonna murder your ass!! hands down ! I got only 3 words for you RUN BITCH RUN!!
They both seemed to have no purpose unless I’m missing something big and if I am please yell at me in the comments.Adam’s ex-wife, Christy comes to stay in Adam and Mercy’s house when her boyfriend, or really the guy she slept with – they weren’t super serious – starts to stalk her.
I didn’t like as a result how Adam and the pack let Christy get a way with being horrible to Mercy.While the villain in this story is creepy, violent and different, I didn’t understand his purpose.
I also have to mention that Mercy's revenge at the very end of the book was absolutely priceless!It was nice to see that Mercy has a few unexpected allies within the pack, a couple of people who I expected to side with Christy didn't but unfortunately the majority of them would take any excuse to get rid of the unwanted coyote.
Adam stands up for Mercy too and it was nice to see that she has a few supporters amongst the pack._________________________3rd ReadThis book makes me more angry every time I read it.
But in Night Broken the same trope of 'let's add a third (female) party that desperately tries to disrupt a harmonious relationship' takes another dimension.
At this point Mercy still isn't accepted in the pack.
Some random thoughts:- Adam passive role is annoying and the fact that he accepts everything coming from Christy is even more so.
- The female werewolves like Mary-Jo for example showed in the previous books some effort to integrate Mercy or at least to be tolerant towards her presence in the pack.
I'm not sure, I think I will read the reviews first.
Night Broken is the 8th book in the fantastic urban fantasy series that features Mercy Thompson as the heroine.   Mercy is faced with not one but two new challenges in her life!Not only having to deal with Christy, Adam’s ex-wife’s hysterical call for help from a dangerous stalker but she wants to come and stay in their home until she’s safe. Adam is not keen to agree to her staying with them….not only is she dramatic but a trouble-maker. Jesse, Adam’s daughter with Christy, who has become very
Mercy is faced with not one but two new challenges in her life!Not only having to deal with Christy, Adam’s ex-wife’s hysterical call for help from a dangerous stalker but she wants to come and stay in their home until she’s safe.
Mercy’s search for her elusive coyote Father has her making new discoveries about her family and herself.Mercy and Adam are an incredible couple…they work well together and they have a very close and tight bond, which we have seen grow and develop throughout the series.
Night Broken by Patricia Briggs is the 8th in her Mercy Thompson fantasy series.
Taking place in the Tri-Cities of Washington, this is the story of Adam, the alpha of the areas werewolves, and his mate, shapeshifter, Mercy, and their pack.
Different from some other series, humans know of the werewolves and work together to protect their cities.
I really enjoy reading about our female heroine, Mercy, and all the trouble she gets into.
Along with the werewolves are vampires, fae, plenty of magic, and romance.
Expect plenty of action with some very strong females.A fun series to read between more serious books.5 out of 5 stars.
Go check out Regina’s interview at badassbookreviews.com, Regina always has the best questions... Here is the link to the interview.. http://badassbookreviews.com/intervie...My review... Loved it. I thought I'd hate the ex coming back to try and mess stuff up but it is just a minor part of the story. Gary and Coyote made me laugh, Honey rocked, and there is a monster in this story that is so bad, it makes werewolves look like puppies.
Mercy is in one of those “damned if you do, damned if you don’t situations.” Surprisingly, Mercy handles Christy with grace and poise and comes out looking great.On the supernatural front, Mercy is visited by Gray Lord who wants the fae walking stick returned.
I think that I love this series because of the diversity of the supernatural creatures.
I think that one of my favorite scenes was the pack watching Mercy’s garage security video over and over again as she battled the volcano god.
Watching Adam and Mercy’s relationship develop over the past eight books has been an absolute treat as well.
The one thing that stopped me from giving it 5 stars was the fact that Adam never actually stood up for Mercy.
she freaking told him!I mean, I personally would have loved for Adam to give Christy the dressing down she deserved and knock her off her high horse.
Hopefully in the next book we get to see the spoiled princess high tail it out of the city and back to whatever hell hole she came out of._____________________________________________________________We have a blurb!!Christy better back the fuck off or else:I eagerly await the arrival of this book.
Series review posted at Ja čitam, a ti? Don't you just love it when great series keep coming your way? And when little something extra comes in a form of two great girls - Vishous and Glam - who are buddy reading it with you? After finishing Kate Daniels, I realized that I am not ready to part ways with urban fantasy, so picked up Moon Called and the rest is history. What I liked? # Mythology. Patricia Briggs gave us this weird, but little bit closer to the roots, mash up of different paranormal
Don't you just love it when great series keep coming your way?
Patricia Briggs gave us this weird, but little bit closer to the roots, mash up of different paranormal creatures.
But the best part for me way all bits and pieces of Native American mythology mixed into everything.
Speaking about mythology and weird things happening all around, I have to mention my two absolute favorite - Coyote, Native American deity, and the walking stick - not actual living creature, but fae object of power that follows Mercy around.# Pack hierarchy.
:-)Mercy Thompson is one of the best Urban Fantasy series around.
NIGHT BROKEN is another action packed, fantasy driven installment in what is without a doubt my favorite series barring Harry Potter.Mercy Thompson has gotten her man.
Adding insult to injury, the pack who are not big fans of Mercy as Adam’s mate…love his ex.Besides a manipulative ex and her stalker, Mercy is pulled into an investigation of brutal murders that the authorities believe are the crimes of werewolves.
The fantasy in NIGHT BROKEN takes an interesting turn.
Another great installment to the Mercy Thompson series.
:0Recommended for fans of the Mercy Thompson series.
Some of her books are great, but some are mediocre - with one or two being downright dull (yes, River Marked, I'm looking at you.) Thankfully I've really enjoyed the seventh and eight, finding them hard to put down, rekindling my enjoyment for the characters and bizarre situations they end up in.Mercy and Adam have been a strongly established couple for awhile now, so Briggs introduced some ex drama to shake it up.
These are flawed, realistic characters and not perfect, one-dimensional ones - and it shows here as Adam is led astray by his ex's machinations.Still, I never doubted his devotion to Mercy and the ending wrapped that up with a nice punch.
It is my favorite series and has held that place in my heart since I started reading it about three years ago.
I don't like to read hardcover (I know, I have one coming out, but the fact remains, I prefer books over ebooks and I love a book I can put in my purse so I never end up waiting around without reading material, which for me is an Emergency Situation.) But also, if you've never read Mercy Thompson, don't start here.
Until I read this book, I hadn't realized the reason I adore Mercy so much is that I relate to her, not bc I can fix cars or fight monsters or win a fight (I so can't) but bc I'm crap at manipulating people.
As always , a wonderfully ,descriptive book. i Can always picture it so well! I love this author, Patricia Briggs. All her books are great
I have to admit, when I first read the blurb for Night Broken I was worried.
She wants Adam back and she’s willing to do whatever it takes to make it happen, including turning Adam’s pack against Mercy." I was worried because I knew that despite all that she'd done for the pack, Mercy still struggled for acceptance from some of the Pack.
(view spoiler)[Throughout the first half of the book I cringed whenever Mercy had to deal with Christy.
Further, Mercy's explaining of Pack magic freaked me out.
Thankfully, at every turn Adam is quick to reassure Mercy whenever her uncertainties regarding Christy creep into her thoughts.
It contains one of my most hated tropes which isn't resolved, unfortunately, by the end of the book.
I guess it's not a spoiler since it's part of the early promo and book blurb -- the trope is the conniving ex (or interloper) who tries to drive a wedge between the main couple.
Even though Briggs pretty much pulls it off -- because Mercy and Adam aren't stupid -- I'd love to see the trope completely turned on its head sometime, rather than seeing it play out as it usually does.
For the first time I actually put the book down when I got tired because I wanted to read it with a fresh mind.
