https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93517.Dragon_Seed
Characters:Ling Tan fatherLao Er, 2nd son, Jade wife with childLing Sao mother and Ling Tan’s wifeWu Lien husband of eldest daughter Orchid married to eldest sonPansiao youngest daughterLao Ta eldest sonMr. Wei, Mayli daughter to marry youngest son, Lao SanThis is the story of Ling Tan, a farmer in bucolic China working the land of his forefathers and providing a home for his sons, daughters and grandchildren.
She spent much of her life as a child with her missionary parents in China, and the time during her first marriage was also spent in country.
The Nanjing Massacre and the subsequent occupation by the Japanese is the central theme of the book.
In 1948 the International Military Tribunal for the Far East estimated that over 200,000 Chinese were killed in the six weeks of the massacre, beginning on December 13, 1937 when the Japanese captured Nanjing.
In both books the style is simplistic, which I like, but tied with Buck’s clear attempt to deliver a message of the atrocities taking place the text takes on the tone of a school lecture.
I became acquainted with Buck’s views in her earlier book and I have read quite a bit about the Nanjing massacre, so I simply didn’t get as much from this one.
For some time, I've wondered what it was like for farmers and people who lived in remote areas during times of warfare.
She focuses on one family, the Lings, who have long lived on their land and have known peace and prosperity for many decades, and writes about their lives during peace time and the many terrible trials they endure after the invading army arrives and takes over the nearby town.
In short time, I grew very attached to this family, and each time I picked up the book, I was soon lost to it.
Pearl S.
Buck writes this story of the invasion of China by the Japanese during WWII from the viewpoint of the peasant farmers outside Nanking.
The city is never named and the Japanese are simply called the East-Ocean people.The language of the book is simple, as if coming from the lips of a Chinese farmer.
But the thoughts and feelings are beautifully expressed.
Some parts of the book are hard to read, but told without today's graphic descriptions.
Don't expect today's liberated women because this is the traditional Chinese culture.
But these are strong women in their own way.
Very few books have the sort of impact that this one does. I've read it at least 3 times and while I am a huge Pearl S. Buck fan and have read more than a dozen of her novels (by the way, she wrote her Asian novels first in Chinese, they had to be translated to English, which explains their authenticity!), I ALWAYS recommend this one first, over "The Good Earth." It's short, but powerful, and despite the horrors of the war which are addressed, it is an inpiration to read.
There is a hidden complexity that I thoroughly enjoy.This novel traces a simple family's life throughout war in their homeland.
The author has a delightful manner of expressing certain universal truths about gender, family, government, leadership, power, and life in general.
I have read a number of books on the subject of this war, and I can say that this was easily the least indulgent as far as gore and violence.
I notice other Goodreads readers find the directness of the author on the horrors of the war too much for them to bear.
Ling Tan adalah petani yg sudah melewati usia parobaya yg berpikiran sederhana, cenderung lugu namun berwibawa di keluarga dan desanya.
Masih adakah secercah harapan bagi Ling Tan utk mendapatkan kedamaian di tanah kelahirannya ini?Membaca novel ini saya terbawa ke suasana peperangan pd saat Jepang memasuki China.
Di awal cerita dikisahkan kedamaian keluarga besar Ling Tan yg belakangan terusik ttg rencana penyerbuan musuh.
Masih ada nilai-nilai tradisional dan gotong royong antar anggota keluarga yg ditampilkan menarik di buku ini.
Mungkin kita bisa mencontoh sikap Ling Tan si petani sederhana ini saat merenungkan perubahan zaman namun tetap bertekad kuat mempertahankan tanahnya utk keturunannya.
So, I read and found that just like The Good Earth I marveled at what an amazing writer and story teller Pearl S.
Along with being a great history lessen (I did not even know about this invasion which was often referred to as the War of Resistance in China) it was a great story with lots of humor as well as horror and sadness.
I have read a few Pearl S buck's novel and now want to read about her as she seems like such an interesting woman, being American but also being so entrenched in Chinese culture and history.
If you never read anything else, read this. It is one of the most powerful books of our time, with truth about human nature which crosses over culture and time. I recommend it to everyone I ever meet who is the slightest bit interested in good literature.
This book is a family saga describing the complete change of one family's life caused by WWII.
In rural China these events take place simultaneously with development of literacy and beginning of change in women's role in society.
The war has an impact on speeding up these developments as news from distant places become valuable and women are needed as more than just baby-makers and household work responsibles.
I like the way Dragon Seed brings these changes alive.There are a lot of documentaries and memoirs about WWII in Europe but I haven't seen so many from the point of view of Asians.
I am a Pearl S. Buck fan from way back, this particular book was interesting but not one of my favorites of hers, of which The Mother and Imperial Woman are my favorites. I love the author's way of telling a story and pulling you into the lives of her characters.
Another great book by Pearl S. Buck! Love her writing!
Blast from the past & even better now that I have matured and have more memories and experiences over this long life time. Still recommend and I hope that it is possibly in the school curriculum.
Ling Tan kept his family healthy by not really providing everything he grew to the enemy.
He did not take the offer made to him by his son-in-law, Wu Lien, because he didn't think that they should just kowtow to the enemy like that.
I would have liked to see more of that thought line.
Why was the enemy specifically in the village and why did Ling Tan find them so abhorrent?
I didn't give it the fifth star partly because of the way one thing in particular was said.
Overall, I did like the book enough to pick up more by Pearl S.
Es el cuarto libro que leo de esta autora, y aunque el estilo es muy parecido, me ha transmitido menos que los anteriores. Narra la vida de una familia china cuándo la invasión japonesa. Lo que más me ha gustado, es que he conectado con todos los personajes, podía entenderles, comprender por qué actuaban como lo hacían. Buena novela, aunque un pelín plana.
love love pearl buck. she understood chinese people. i missed this one. saw the movie ugh. got the book. favorite is still pavilion of women.
Buck5 Stars and a heartSet in the 1930's Japanese during the invasion of China pre-WWII, Buck follows the lives of members of a simple village family.
But, if you crave more of Buck's work this is the must read follow up.Buck is known for her simplistic writing style and display of Chinese life, but here it doesn't prevent her from developing incredibly well-drawn characters, some of who disappoint you but are, in the end, redeemable.
I really appreciated her ability to create a family who is naive pre-invasion and develops in to a savvy group of resistance fighters.
Înțelegi de ce China continuă să fie imperiul care a fost odată, înțelegi ambiția și preocuparea populației de a-și demonstra valoarea și de a urca pe scara ierarhică mondială, înțelegi de unde își trag milioanele de oameni puterea și mândria.Poate că pentru o carte despre război e cumite, e așezată.
Dar asta poate și pentru că mai rău decât războiul e uitarea.
Uitarea distruge civilizațiile din interior, dar Pearl S Buck le tatuează pe fiecare cititor.
Le imprimă, le scrijelește pentru posteritatehttps://recenziilesipovestiletale.wor...
This was the first novel by Buck that I have read and after reading her biography and her context for her writing I just see the power in it even more.
I felt like this book has the power to do that in so many ways.
I loved particularly how Buck was able to critique certain gender roles without being overtly judgmental or needing to pronounce superiority or condemnation.
That is most relevant in the characters of the daughter who is sent away to a school to keep her safe and Jade.
They are amazing characters who both fit into their roles often and rebel against them.
This novel pulled me in immediately, undoubtedly because Buck takes us to the heart of the Chinese people's struggles during World War II on the very first page.
I chose to read this book now because I was travelling to China--I thought it would give me some feel for the customs, mores, and shared experiences of the Chinese people.
But reading this novel at any time would have been an extremely satisfying experience for me.
Buck captures in such a exquisitely attuned fashion the moment-to-moment reactions of her characters as they strive to reconcile their lives with sweeping political changes.
I strongly recommend this book.
I gave the full five stars because I loved this book.
The book is fiction and takes place in World War II.
Even though it is fiction the events like the invasion happened.
The story is about the family of Ling Tans and in my eyes this family represents the families in China at this time.
His family got along very well and lived a simple life of working on a farm.
This book was difficult in some places but mostly fun and easy to read.
I recommend this book to teens and adults if you like historical and fun to read (intense) books.
I liked this book more than I thought I would.
It was somewhat slow going at first and I felt like I was listening to it (I listened to the audiobook version) because I should.
But it finally caught me and I became very involved with it.
I felt that Ms. Buck really conveyed the isolation of the mostly illiterate villagers, who knew very little beyond their own village and the nearby city (probably Nanking).
Also well-portrayed were the petty jealousies, fears and everyday lives of the people and how they were changed the the invasion of their land in WWII.
Prelijepa priča o životu seljaka u Kini tokom II svjetskog rata. Neposredan stil pripovijedanja , pomalo arhaični izrazi možda je to i do prevoda, također doprinose uvjerljivosti događaja i likova...jedino što bi mogla dodati je da je ova poznata spisateljica, nobelovka, nepravedno zapostavljena u ovo moderno vrijeme...nadam se da će se to u budućnosti promijeniti i da će biti novijih izdanja njenih knjiga u prodaji.
A really fascinating, personal view of the War from the perspective of a Chinese farmer, definitely one of the most unconventional books I've read. A page-turner, with an incredible insight into a man's relationship with his family and his land, and his efforts to hold on to the normal in the midst of a grotesque Japanese conquest. Highly recommend.
I really enjoyed this book, like all of Pearl Buck's books. You feel like you know those characters and the story seemed realistic. She makes you care.There were loose ends at the end of the book. I wanted to know more about how things came out.
Mio padre era un fan di questa scrittrice e perciò non deve meravigliare che da ragazzino anch'io leggessi i romanzi di Pearl Buck e mi piacesse l'atmosfera orientale dei suoi libri. Questo romanzo mi piacque molto
Very interesting book, I enjoyed reading about the villagers perspectives of invasion and being taken over, as well as different people's responses to their fate. Eloquently written, definitely recommend!
کتاب رو با توجه به زمانی که نوشته شده ارزیابی میکنم. اگر نوشته جدید بود اینقدر بهش امتیاز نمی دادم. چون خط روایی کتاب خیلی ساده و بدون پیچیدگیه و سلیقه من اینقدر سادگی رو نمی پسنده. اما در کنار این خط روایی و جزییاتی که می پردازه قابل توجهه و ملموس.
بهترین اثر پرل باک؛ تحول زندگی یک خانواده کشاورز چینی طی جنگ با ژاپن
Bellissimo romanzo!
