https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849925.Seven_Men
[Original review]A couple of days ago, I reviewed Arthur M. Steven's  The Blue Book of Charts to Winning Chess , one of the most dismally misguided chess books ever written. Unfortunately, the author had spent most of his life writing it. I'd only borrowed him as a hook on which to hang a Twilight-related parody (I really must stop doing this), and, overcome by rather tardy remorse, I thought I'd go to Google and find out what people had to say about his masterpiece. After a few minutes, I gave
The situation was familiar, and was in fact remarkably close to the premise of "Enoch Soames", the lead story in Seven Men. Soames is an unknown author, toiling away in 1890s Paris and dreaming of the fame that's surely going to be his one day.
What did the reading-room look like?''Much as usual,' he at length muttered.'Many people there?''Usual sort of number.''What did they look like?'Soames tried to visualise them.
Soames was only not sure whether the men and women were hairless or shorn.
One day, when Enoch Soames discloses his eagerness for fame to the narrator and by "chance" the devil had happened to eavesdrop the conversation, it wishes to offer a hand for remedy.
I hope I can enjoy his brilliance in one whole work as a novel than sparks of magic spattered in bits and pieces, like here.Before I leave you, I will share a few good quotes from the book:I was glad when, on my second evening, I found seated at the table opposite to mine another guest.
Five character studies/short stories, mostly of writers/artists/creative types, often with a supernatural bent. They're...OK. Beerbohm had a light comic touch (and a lovely name) but some of these don't land that well and the one's that do land don't land all that hard. I did quite enjoy the first short story, in which a hack writer with pretensions of genius visits the future only to discover his descendants have no more appreciation for his talent than did his contemporaries. Keep, for the moment, but it's just because it's an NYRB book and my shelves are bareish.
In this book, a collection of five vignettes or sketches published in 1919, his exquisite, perceptive, and dry satire is brought to focus on individuals so cleanly and clearly that they become for the reader utterly unforgettable, virtual character types or, were one looking at Beerbohm’s actually drawings, caricatures.
In the first vignette, “Enoch Soames,” for example, Beerbohm begins, “When a book about the literature of the eighteen-nineties was given by Mr. Holbrook Jackson to the world, I looked eagerly in the index for SOAMES, ENOCH.
Beerbohm, Max. SEVEN MEN.
By far the best is “Enoch Soames.” Soames is a writer and poet that Beerbohm meets who has just published one book and is working on another.
The other excellent story is “Savonarola Jones.” This one is about a playwright who is writing a play about Savonarola, hence his nickname.
He hasn’t gotten very far when Beerbohm meets him, but the two follow the progress over the years.
Beerbohm doesn’t know quite what to do with the manuscript, so he publishes it at the end of the story, asking the reader to submit ideas for an appropriate ending.
More fun with Uncle Max, this time in the form of brief fictional biographies. The best piece is the first one, on Enoch Soames who had everything necessary to be a big literary hit in the 1890s, except talent. He makes an ill-considered bargain with the devil and pays the price.

It’s about writers, aspirations, fictions and metafictions, with a sense of humor.“Enoch Soames,” the first story, is my favorite short story.
It’s about a poet and philosopher who is desperate to be remembered as a great writer and makes a deal with the devil to travel to the future and see how he is remembered.
It’s the best story in the volume, has Max’s character at his most active, and delivers not only themes worth reading but a killer twist.All five are worth reading and especially great in combination with each other.
An interesting twist.
He had me at "Fungoids."
enjoyable read--excellent
A mixed bag between meh and sublime, but sadly with a slow decline towards the former.Enoch Soames: already reviewed it seperately here, but in short it's possibly one of my favourite ludicrous shorts, housing everything you could possibly want in early British twentieth century fiction.
Feels very Wodehouse.
Four stars.James Pethel: a mediocre character study with no real pay off.
Laider: a more brilliant character study, with a brief dalliance on the subject of fate and guilt.
Two stars.While the seventh man is supposed to be Beerbohm himself, only getting five stories feels like diabolical false advertising.
Beerbohm is the most inexplicably neglected of all 20th century writers. Seven Men is brilliant, as is Zuleika Dobson, Beerbohm's only novel-length fiction. Yet I may be the only person I know who's heard of him. I just bought NYRB Classics' collection of his essays (the form for which Beerbohm is best known, to the extent he can be called "known" these days), and look forward to digging into it. A contemporary and equal of Wilde, Beerbohm long outlived Oscar, and arguably outwrote him. Seven Men is Exhibit A to that latter assertion.
Entertaining piffle. In these six faux-biographies (the "seventh man" of the title being Beerbohm himself, or a Modernist version of him, identity as always being in flux), Beerbohm affectionately tweaks the literary and artistic circle of his day (that day being the 1890s-1910s). Some of them run the gamut from ghost story to time travel; others prefigure Barthelme or Pynchon in their deadpan offhandedness ("What if I get run over by an omnibus and killed?" asks one character before getting run over by an omnibus and killed in the next sentence.)
3 1/2 starsInteresting short stories, very well written. I often find short stories to be a little odd and unsatisfying. I read this because of a reference to Oscar Wilde and others in that era. I really enjoyed "The Importance of Being Earnest" (the play and the movie were both good). So I thought I would give this a chance. I'm glad I did. These stories were a bit odd, but they were also satisfying, some more than others.
Read this in one day. So imaginative, unpredictable, and fun. The story that sticks with me most, though, is the unfunny (in fact rather chilling) tale of the perpetually lucky gambler who is constantly compelled to stake what he values most.
"Enoch Soames" is such a 5, as is "A.V. Laider". "'Savonarola' Brown" is uneven but great at its best times. The remaining portraits, though good, left me more satisfied than floored.
Just some good stories
So-so. I enjoyed the conceit of each of the three stories in it, but man can I not stand early 1900s english writing.
