https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42697.Exodus
This book is useful for learning the romantic Zionist version of events surrounding 1948, but contrary to several of the reviews here, it is NOT a reliable historical source or one I would recommend for those interested in seriously learning about the roots of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Describing this book as an accurate historical account from which to draw important information about the conflict is akin to promoting Gone With the Wind as a complete guide to the American Civil War. Uris facilitates prejudice against Arabs in his work and perpetuates a number of myths now dispelled by state-released documents.
Even though I was caught up in the book when I first read it, I had to leave it halfway through...
and when I went back to it some years later, after learning more about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict (not the American-Israeli fiction, but real history), I felt I couldn't read it, it was so nauseating.
And the aversion to the book has increased.The story of "Exodus" could be summarised in one sentence: "Brave godlike Jews defeat cowardly, evil Arabs and build the beautiful country of Israel."Yuck.Edit to add:For those who want to comment on this review; a suggestion - no need to reiterate that this review represents my prejudice, because it does.
5+1/ Hay libros que, sencillamente, se apoderan de nuestra alma hasta el último segundo. Libros que parecen tejidos para arrancarnos de la comodidad en la que vivimos y abrirnos los ojos. Libros, en fin, que nos hacen vibrar y sufrir a partes iguales. Pues bien, Éxodo es uno de esos libros; o, por lo menos lo es para mí. Y como tal, no puedo ponerle solo cinco estrellas, no es una historia de cinco estrellas, por eso le doy esa estrella de más.
It is heart-breaking to read what a hard time the Jewish people had.
Even though Israel only takes up 1/10 of 1% of the land in the M.E., at least they finally have a nation of their own again, after centuries of persecution and slaughter that made the Jewish population there dwindle to almost nothing.
And just like they always have, the Jewish people used their strength of mind and spirit to keep going, and once again made Israel into the beautiful nation it once was.
Knjiga o nastanku države Izrael... guta se u dahu... po njoj je snimljen i čuveni film s Polom Njumenom... Pre nekoliko godina sam svojoj prijateljici, vrsnoj prevodilici rekla: "Šta nisi čitala ništa od Leona Urisa? Ne javljaj mi se dok ne pročitaš nešto!" Poslušala me i odmah je potražila knjige u knjižari i... u roku od nekoliko meseci progutala je sve čega je mogla da se dočepa... :)
Caught on the Cyprus shoreline in British DP camps behind barbed wire are thousands of Jewish refugees waiting for transport to Ersatz-Israel after the conclusion of WW II.
She eventually does, but only after she meets a young girl named Karen in the camps and hears David Ben Ami’s tale of a “historical abortion.” This tale begins in 1896 Russia and ends with the Rabinsky brothers in Ersatz-Israel many long and difficult years later.
They work hard without complaint to reclaim the “dead” land and will fight to their death to see Palestine as the independent state of Israel.
It feels as if my life truly started when I read this book.
There are no words for it.
It shaped who I am today.
It's beautiful, amazing, awe-inspiring, and so much more.
I used to read this at night before I went to bed to give myself happy dreams.I dreamed about the courage and honor and bravery and love that venerates through each and every word of the book.
I dreamed that I could have half of the bravery of the characters.
It is a beautiful, amazing book.
I wrote this (^) four years ago.
Another of my 'Haven't Read This In 30 Years' titles, the trigger event here is the dramatic story of children who become passengers on the ship Exodus.
We dream the dream of next year in Jerusalem almost as vividly as the characters of the book, who never give up hope.
We participate in the creation of a homeland, and feel just as proud of the newly reclaimed farmlands and flowering of the desert as the kibbutzim who worked so hard.
We close the book with (hopefully) a better understanding of what 'homeland' means, and how to cherish and protect it.
While overall I liked the book, still, some niggling thoughts ate at the corner of my mind as I made my way through Exodus.Whereas this book is fiction, for some reason, I came to this thinking that what Uris put down is very close to fact.
(Not that I like to hear it, but because we need reminded of it every once and awhile), and how he introduced characters by their history and their family's history.And yes, ok, I cried at the end.
The book starts out with a fairly intense description of the Jewish experience of the World War II holocaust.
One cannot but sympathize with their status after the war and their desire for a safe homeland.One of the things that people often bring up about the Jews after the war is why didn't they just go back to places where they came from?
A good example is Poland were 3 1/2 million Jews lived at the time of the war.
The book goes into detail about how they were discriminated against in Poland over many generations and then how the Polish people stood by when the Germans came in and murdered the Jews en masse.
Really, this is one of my all time fave books. It really captures the history (ACCURATELY, I might add!) of how the country of modern-day Israel was born and all the incredible struggles that the Jews faced from seemingly every direction. A fantastic historical novel, even thought it's fiction. I highly recommend this to anyone who feels they could beef up on their historical understanding of the middle east of today--will really help you read through the western media when watching the news!
This account is historically accurate (as historical novels go).
There is the vivacious and beautiful Karen Clement-a young German Jewish girl who was raised by a Christian family in Denmark in order to escape Hitler’s Holocaust; and Dov Landau who has lived through the worst horrors imaginable during the dreadful Nazi occupation of Poland.
We live through the trials and tribulation of those trying to set up a small homeland against overwhelming odds, violent Arab hordes and the bigotry of the British Empire.
This truthful account also looks through the eyes of Arabs, British and others.
In fact, EXODUS opens in 1947 as underground Jewish groups attempt to thwart the British attempts to keep Palestine-bound Jewry sealed up in virtual concentration camps in other areas like Cyrpus, in the obvious hope they will give up any attempt to find their homeland and return to war-torn Europe.
The hypocritical and occasionally cruel actions by the British stand in clear contrast to their Balfour Declaration made during the first World War, which acknowledged in principle the right of self-determination of the Jewish people to found a homeland in what was then called the Palestinian Mandate.
This book is chock-full of bad prose, flat characters, and very unfortunate implications.
The Arabs, on the other hand, are all cowardly, stupid, and possessive of women (with one exception, but he dies early on.)The founding of Israel was controversial, and you would think that an author writing about it would address the moral ambiguity.
The ritual involved placing one hand on a Bible and the other on a gun.
While the other characters didn't agree with the extremism at first, they later conceded that this organization had the right idea.I'm Israeli, and I could hardly stomach this book.
This story of the Jews is amazing and seemed to me more powerful than any one account of the Holocaust I've read because it's not one individual's or one family's ordeal, but the story of an entire people - you really feel the tragedy of their history and the glory of their hard-won victory in gaining their own state.
It seemed more powerful to me than any one account of the holocaust beause a) it was a more complete (and disheartening) history and b) it was not the experience of one individual or one family but that of an entire nation.
Lo leí hace mil años, tras ver la película de Paul Newman, y me gustó mucho. Lo recomiendo.
What it does say, though, is how good it was to have a country when Jews have been disenfranchised and defenseless for centuries and across all the walks of life.Yes, now we see that there were a whole mass of people who were also disenfranchised - the Lebanese Arabs - but how can it be changed again?
Most of the book is about the Holocaust.I find this in the reviewers - 'there is nothing between Hitler and Zionist jews'.
And I cried at this book, every time.
Whatever happened to the Jews, they needed a break, they got on in 1948 and it ain't going away.
This is still the best book I ever read about the birth of the state of Israel, searing with passion and immediacy, even-handed enough to mourn a troubled future relationship with the Palestinians.
Most concerning to me is that this 'history' is littered with fictional characters who become hard to tease out from the truth.The book gets off to a rather good start actually.
Over 600 pages this was incredibly taxing.Meanwhile, as Jewish child after Jewish child grows up to be bright/beautiful/popular/smart/hard-working/loyal and above all ready to blow up some arabs, the melodrama nearly killed me and the romance left me fairly cold.I think in reading this book it's important to remember it was written in 1958, and a lot has happened in the Middle East since then.
While reading I assumed this was historical fiction, meaning the characters might not be real, but the events in the story were true and presented objectively.
Well, it needs to be read carefully, with the understanding that the writer had a very strong point of view in favor of the Jews.
My friend recommended I read a book called "Blood Brothers" which discusses the similar period of time from another point of view.
All that aside, I liked the book for what it was, and although I don't remember details of the story, I remember enjoying it.
It is not so often that a book stirs up so many emotions as Exodus. Exodus is an American masterpiece, a story woven with intricate threads creating a thought provoking story of tragedy and triumph. It tells the story of the establishment of Israel, and the atrocities that occured at the time. Despite moving slowly at the beggining, it quickly picks up and is a visceral thrillride. As battles are thought and the conditions grow bleaker for the protagonist, the more the reader feels involved with the characters. Definitely a good read and worth buying.
one of my favorite books, I just wish a few more people would read it!Fantastic way to learn more about the Jewish history as a whole and the Jewish National Movement specifically. Plus, it has a really great love story!I learned so much that I did not know or understand about Jewish history, and in such an easy-read format. Takes a little while to get moving, but so worth it!
Other reviewers have already said it all. The story of a birth of a nation amid great conflict and upheaval by a strong and determined people. Well written and quite emotive at times.
3.5***From the book jacket: The Exodus was a ship that held 300 Jewish children, orphaned by World War II and the Nazi destruction.
My reactionsThis is an epic novel covering the history of the Jewish people’s efforts to return to Palestine and form an independent state.
I felt that Uris couldn’t make up his mind whether he was writing an epic romance, a war novel or a history of the formation of Israel.
The reader is immersed in the plight of the orphans held “hostage” aboard the Exodus, and then taken back to the late 19th century for a history of the Jewish people in Russia, and Ari’s grandfather, father and uncle.
The story, set in 1946, is framed as being about the refugee ship Exodus, and attempts to force the British, who rule over Palestine, to allow the survivors of the Holocaust being kept in camps in Cyprus to sail to the promised land.
The characters strike me as flat, and Ari Ben Canaan, arguably the main character, is very much a Marty Sue. But by and large what kills this story is that it violates the first rule of writing--show, don't tell.
This is also the story of how all these events played in the lives of Ari Ben Canaan (whose Character was based on the real life Yossi Harel) who was the architect of Smuggling of Jews into Palestine, and Using the Ship the Exodus, With 300 Children as a way to bring the attention to the world on the struggles of the Jews of Palestine and the immoral and inhumane treatment of the Jewish holocaust victims trying to immigrate to Palestine at the hands of the British.
There is no better tale than this of how brave these people were and still are. I read this many times and have to again...it's been awhile.
It even turned out that parts of the book that I had expected to be fictionalized were real events, such as the Exodus itself, a ship converted to be able to carry Jewish passengers from other countries into Palestine.It's interesting.
It'd be much more interesting than the text book.The main characters in the novel are fictional, although they interact with real historical figures and events.
The characters all react in different but believable ways to the events around them, and they generlaly change and become stronger throughout the course of the novel.I highly recommend this book, and the audio version if you are into them.
Gì đến nỗi :DExodus là một dạng tiểu thuyết thiên về lịch sử, cụ thể là lịch sử thời hiện đại khi thành lập nhà nước Israel của người Do Thái sau mấy ngàn năm lưu lạc khắp thế giới, và đặc biệt là sau thảm họa phát xít trong Thế Chiến II.
Thêm nữa, cách viết quá thiên lệch về phía người Do Thái cũng là điểm làm cho tác phẩm kém đi phần hấp dẫn.Điểm trừ to lớn không thể không nói đến là NXB Văn Nghệ biên tập quyển này quá tệ với vô số lỗi chính tả và lỗi câu.
Natürlich ist es nett zu lesen, dass 50.000 Juden mit 10.000 alten Knarren gegen eine halbe Million Araber mit einem nahezu unbegrenzten Waffenarsenal ihren Existenzkampf gewinnen, aber wenn der Verfasser darüber sein Personal vollkommen aus den Augen verliert, wenn man mal von der Verwicklung des allgegenwärtigen Wundermannes Ari ben Kanaan in sämtliche Entscheidungen absieht.
Statt einer ausführlichen Schilderung wird der größte Moment einer Hauptperson auf einer Seite abegehandelt, um später ein endloses Kapitel über den vollkommen irrelevanten Ausflug der Juden aus dem Jemen anzufügen.Das Buch ist eine Bankrotterklärung des Autors, der allerdings auch stark abgelenkt war, wenn man den Schilderungen von Mitla Pass glauben kann.
