https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113540.Shadow_Games
☠ Buddy reread with the clueless new mercenary recruits Elena and Mark over at BB&B. Under the wicked supervision of our Ever-Stalking Black Company Overlord (ESBCO™), of course ☠➽  And the moralssssss of this reread are :  It seems I almost nearly DNFed this book the first time I read it (still rated it 5 stars, though. Don't ask. I most certainly didn’t). Goes to show that one can be both nefarious and a complete, utter, total nitwit.  Croakie Baby, you’re the worst Casanova in the history
*gasps*YES, my name is Sarah and I have a shameful admission to make: I am unfull of grate and I almost potentially not quite but nearly DNFed a book written by the Ever Awesome Glen Cook (well sometimes he is not so Ever Awesome but I am pretending The Silver Spike never happened and shh shh shh I never said any of this do not be silly now you Barnacles you did not just read what I just wrote thank you.) Having almost potentially not quite but nearly committed the deadliest of sins I shall now make an act of contrition by confessing my hideous thoughts:✘ My aging boyfriend Croaker is annoyingly grumpy in an annoyingly grumpy kind of way.
This book starts the plot arc about the people who decided to go with its analyst Croaker to the place of the Company's origin, faraway and mysterious Khatovar.
As reluctant Croaker to get into local conflicts, the Company is inevitably drown into them if only to progress closer to its goals.
Strictly speaking the rating of this book is closer to 4 than 5 stars, but knowing the groundwork it laid for the future plot advancement I will round it up.
3.5 My Fair Lady StarsI love being back with Croaker, One –Eye, Goblin and the former Lady, still called Lady but she is much diminished in power since The White Rose, I’m sure that will be rectified at some point though.Things I like about this Series:ͼ Everything is a little clipped.
If you need a lot of description in your world building (something I usually really like) it is going to leave something maybe missing a little bit.☠ - There is brutality in this.
☠ - There is a lot going on especially in a new setting from the previous trilogy and so at times it is hard to follow just because of the writing style.

I can honestly say, I missed The Black Company terribly, I just didn't realized that until I started reading the forth installment in the series.
This book covers only a part of their journey to the Khatovar, the origin place of the Free Companies, and it takes the a loooooooooong time...
Needles to say, there are scrimmages, new and unknown territories, potential friends and recruits, as well as a ton of new (or old???) suspicious characters, and since this is a Black Company book, you can't trust anybody!!!
They are in search of the lost Annals of the Company, so you may be sure that this operation is being headed by our cranky Annalist, Croaker.Croaker isn’t sure that he likes being in charge, but he shows an aptitude for it, thinking up sneaky surprises for the enemies that they encounter and showing that knowing some history gives a leader a good grasp of the many things that can go wrong.
A peek at the next book reveals that she will take up the pen as Annalist and I can hardly wait to get her take on things.Book 258 of my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Project.
The heart is stilled but the corpse stumbles on. The Company is dead in fact but not in name. And we, O merciless gods, stand witness to the power of names. The Black Company is down to seven members, with Croaker as their new captain. The Lady has lost her powers and is trying to come to terms with it. (view spoiler)[For now? I have a feeling, a vague hope that they are going to be back sooner or later. (hide spoiler)]After a looooot of travelling, a loooot of Lady struggling to adjust to her
The Black Company is down to seven members, with Croaker as their new captain.
(hide spoiler)]After a looooot of travelling, a loooot of Lady struggling to adjust to her new life as something like a mere mortal and a looooot of Croaker's internal conflicts, it is finally time to kick-ass again and for some action, so if you find yourself bored at times during the inititial lecture of this book, hang in there, it takes a while but then is well worth the wait and you will be rewarded with 
⚔Croaker and the Lady finally coming to terms with their new lives.
چرا اینجوری تموم شد؟:| هیچ چیز خاصی واقعا نمیتونم در مورد این کتاب بگم، جز اینکه فوق العاده بود.
The fourth installment of the excellent Black Company series, this novel immediately follows the events of The White Rose (it also takes place concurrently with #3.5 in the series, The Silver Spike).
As anyone who read The White Rose is aware, the Black Company has disbanded, and is now down to only a handful of former members.
Croaker, The Lady, One-Eye, Goblin, Murgen, and a few others head south in search of Khatovar, to fulfill Croaker's obligation of returning the annals to their rightful place.
One thing I noticed is how much Glen Cook's prose has improved since the earlier books.
Actual Rating 3.5GAH!!!! Glen Cook, what a cliff hanger. It wasn't as great as the last three, more of the slow years. It did drag in places, loved the Lady and Croakers relationship but I have questions...and I need answers!!!
Another great entry in The Black Company series, albeit a shade off from the the first three books. The last 25% of the book saved the five-star rating for me. [Spoiler stuff follows.]The middle section of the book dragged a bit, but (view spoiler)[the final battles, and the cliffhangers! Croaker? Lady? Goblin? One-Eye? Are y'all okay? How did Soulcatcher get back? GAH! (hide spoiler)]Glen Cook keeps ruining my plans to start a new series. I give up; I'll just finish the remaining five books in
Another great entry in The Black Company series, albeit a shade off from the the first three books. The last 25% of the book saved the five-star rating for me. [Spoiler stuff follows.]The middle section of the book dragged a bit, but (view spoiler)[the final battles, and the cliffhangers! Croaker? Lady? Goblin? One-Eye? Are y'all okay? How did Soulcatcher get back? GAH!  (hide spoiler)]Glen Cook keeps ruining my plans to start a new series. I give up; I'll just finish the remaining five books in this series. It's truly great reading for me.
After defeating the Dominator in Borrowland and being down to only 7 men, the Black Company decides to go to south and it's just turn to another epic adventure for them.The book was full of battles and bloodshed and some unexpected faces from previous novels appeared again.It is a good start for the "books of the south" and looking forward to continue the Chronicles of the Black Company.
"We ride out in the morning," I said.
Forgive me for losing sight of that."Crafty old Croaker.
Death does.
I don't want to leave...
It writhes in the heart of every man who resents my influence." It was that kind of empire too, and in the past few days a lot of old imperials were given cause to resent me deeply."You promised dinner at the Gardens in Opal."I promised you a lot more than that, my heart said.
I saw the fires of schemes flickering behind her eyes, being rejected.
But she never used the personal to gain political ends.
:)Important part of the story plays developing romantic relationship between the main character and (view spoiler)[the Lady (hide spoiler)].
For the most of the book I felt Croaker could rival famous Harry Dresden with his (view spoiler)[luck getting laid (hide spoiler)].
But I guess in the end Harry wins - or looses - depends how look at it :P There were too many (view spoiler)[close encounters which conveniently got interrupted just as the things were getting interesting (hide spoiler)].
Towards the end of the book (view spoiler)['will they won't they' dance (hide spoiler)] got tiresome.
It's time to open a new chapter in the adventures of the Black Company.
It's time to head south and learn more about the origins of the Free Companies.
I guess even someone like her can fall in love :)It was supposed to be an easy journey - to Khatovar to return the Annals to where they belong, to the birth place of the Company.
Or rather between the forces of Evil and Not-so-sure-if-they're-the-good-guys, because lets face it - a black and white world is not Glen Cook's style.
And I love this world because of it.
Shadow Games is the fourth book in The Black Company series.
It's not quite as strong as the books from the original trilogy, but it's a worthwhile entry into the series.
This is the tale of The Black Company's attempts to return their vaunted annals to Khatovar, the Company's place of origin.
Of course the path to Khatovar is fraught with mishaps!
Croaker remains an interesting character.
The book ended with a massive cliffhanger.
I'm being kindly and rounding upAudio Note: Marc Vietor continues to do a great job with The Black Company series.
He is the perfect voice for Croaker.
This book was some what let down for me as it did not live up to the standards set by first three bo
I am no closer to coming up with a review than I was when I closed the covers!
The antagonists are lame and undescript, the story is slow but straightforward, lacking the great twists in the previous books, a love relationship is awkward and not believable, other interactions are not credible, some characters are completely undeveloped, there is too much useless talk, and so on.
A malus for me (though a bonus for some other readers) - the Goblin - One-Eye conflict gets more stage time, though I find their endless feud unfunny, unimaginative, annoying and, in this volume, a filler in a book already mostly composed of fillers.
I need book 5, like, right now. Holy...This started pretty slow and took its time to get it rolling, but when it did... damn. Masterful. It's totally deceiving because it looks way too easy but it's all part of the plan. Foreshadowing, big plot twists and an insane cliffhanger ending. I couldn't believe the book ended. Some great new characters, but more importantly, an old favorite is back!
I started this one feeling a little tired of the Black Company, but it took only a few paragraphs to remind me why I enjoy this world so much. It's never easy continuing a series after a successful trilogy, and I think the fourth—mostly unrelated—book shows that. This one, with most of the old timers back, and Croaker in the role of narrator, manages to be a nice change of direction for the series. And after that ending I can't wait to know what happens next.
I'm confused and pissed!
Kad jau skaičiau, tai pagalvojau, perskaitysiu iki galo, įdomu, kaip baigsis, ką čia tas vidurnaktis...
:) Pabaiga tai tokia, kad vos ne iš karto norisi imti kitą knygą ir skaityti toliau.
Nors kai kurie dalykai paaiškėjo, bet atsirado vietoj jų daugybė naujų, o dar daug kas liko neaišku.
Paslapčių ir intrigų kaip ir visad netrūko.
Paprastai kai skaitau knygas, ir žūsta koks veikėjas, kažkur kirba viltis, kad gal jis iš tikro nežuvo, gal dar pasirodys gyvas, bet galiausiai susitaikai su tuo, kad jo nebėra.
O čia, kai jau susitaikai su tuo, kad veikėjų nebėra, bac, ir jie kažkokiu neaiškiu būdu vėl gyvi.
3.5 Stars. Might change it to 4 stars later. Lady is the shit, for real.
I haven't seen a map of the vast world Cook built, but I did have a fun time visualizing the gang leaving Europe (the north?) and crossing the Mediterranean (the Sea of Torments?) into Africa (the south?), then going south past the equator and into the Congo, and then even further south to finally reach Taglios (which is...
I doubt I'm the first (I'm probably the billionth, to be honest) person to note the loose parallels between our world and the Black Company's, but I thought this type of epic world building was a great way to move past the events in the first three books.
Even though I read the omnibus edition I will have to post these books separately because I have much to say.According to Goodreads, Shadow Games is apparently the fifth installment of the Chronicles of the Black Company.
However, in the Omnibus edition, Shadow Games comes first, so this is the one that I read first.The book continues where The White Rose left off and is still written in the perspective of Croaker who is the annalist, physician, and captain.
There is also intrigue and many surprises along the way.Much of the novel is spent reading about who is left of the Black Company and their travels south to Khatoavr.
After the high impact events in book # 3, The White Rose, the remaining bits of the Black Company (down to only seven people now) decide to make their way south, to locate the lost historical annals of their Company and return them to Khatovar, the Company's place of origin.This novel is sort of a “journey” novel, as we get to experience the Company’s adventures during their travels south.
Croaker, the first person POV character of the first three books is back, diligently recording the Company’s annals and still acting as the group’s medic.
And that makes reading book #5 all the more urgent.
A long travel that leads only to the next part of the series, new foes that are just the shadows of the old, but still pretty entertaining at moments.
Slow and quite predictable, first half was boring. Some uninteresting new characters made things worse I think, even the old ones are getting too repetitive and unfunny. I love Goblin's and One-Eye's thing but it's getting to a point where it should stop. Not many twists, not much happening between Croaker and Lady either. They're moving forward but it doesn't feel 'real'. Dissapointing.
The second half is a rather lengthy military-style battle between the Company and the Shadowmaster's army.
While the original trilogy was an incredibly compelling story, the follow-up novel feels a lot like a downgrade.
While, The Black Company did have grand scenes of Croaker and Raven taking on the Taken or Stormbringer unleashing hurricane and lava upon her enemies, the battle scenes in Shadow Games feel far too underwhelming.
P.S. I originally read this book back in 2012 and wasn't able to write much of a review since I didn't remember much of it.
