https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4379197-queen-of-the-black-coast
Secondly, I know that this was written in a different time (1934 to be exact) but the racism and sexism present in this story rubbed me the wrong way.
While our social standards (and the standards for what we expect in published works today) have certainly evolved to better places, I still think Howard's stories are entertaining enough in their own way.
He was a master of the written word for his time, and I definitely wouldn't pass up another opportunity to traverse the dangerous shores and jungles of Conan's world.
Fun, exciting and the prose is candy for the eyes. Everything I look for in a Conan story. My only complaint this time around is that the villain/monster felt underwhelming and had no time to develop compared to many other villains in the series. The final battle was cool, but it lacked emotional substance because of the lack of characterization. Other than that, still Conan at its finest with bloody and sexy action to boot.
The love between Conan and Belit is better than any love story I have ever read.Ahhhhhh!
How can I tell you about Conan and Belit without spoiling the story?
The bodies of his enemies are stacked around him like cord-wood, his chest is heaving from dealing death like a sharp deals cards.Belit takes one look at Conan, and she's like "Mmmmmmm, I gotta get me some of that!" So Belit calls off her crew, and her and Conan begin plundering together.But things go sideways when Belit gets obsessed about a lost city...That is all I am going to say!!Read it!!
Queen of the Black Coast is one of Robert E. Howard's best Conan stories. It is very short, being only 32 pages, but Howard's epic prose makes it worth it.Those who are unfamiliar with Conan stories should read this one first. It introduces a great character in the Queen, Belit, and offers much insight into Conan's personalities and the ways of Hyboria's people.Favorite quote from Conan (that describes him in a nutshell): "I live, I burn with life, I love, I slay, and am content."
I've read this story a few times already over the past few years. I just keeps getting better. I really wish Howard had dedicated another decade or so to writing. The original Conan series of 20 so stories and novels is masterful work I enjoy coming back to again and again. Sword and sorcery at its very best.
My favorite Robert E Howard story so far!! A short tale that I just can't stop thinking about.
I know this: if life is illusion, then I am no less an illusion, and being thus, the illusion is real to me.
I live, I burn with life, I love, I slay, and am content."That's Conan baring his soul to his new love and warrior queen, Belit.I loved this story.
Howard's Lovecraftian descriptions of the menacing jungle, and the unbridled passion between Conan and Belit make the read fun.
There's so much feeling, adventure and horror in so few pages that Howards effort demanded 5 stars from me.I recommend making Queen of the Black Coast your starting point in the Conan saga.
Fun tale of how Conan became a pirate, found his true love, discovered a lost city and fantastic wealth, and then tragedy strikes.Not my favorite of the old R.H. Howard classics, but the way Conan becomes a sailor was wonderful.
Howard is much more poetic in this story than the others, and he shows a side of his battle-hardened barbarian that we never get to see.
Being raised on the 1982 Conan movie, I've enjoyed seeing the little tidbits that were pulled from the classic tales.
Here we see the Black Lotus, discussions of Crom, and how true love protects him from beyond the grave.
Foi traduzido para português por António Vilaça como “A Rainha da Costa Negra”, na coletânea de 2007 com o mesmo nome.Um dos contos mais aclamados pelos fãs de Robert E.
O capitão começa por opor-se a Conan pela audácia, mas quando o cimério o ameaça e à sua tripulação, ele acede em deixar Conan a bordo, uma vez que seria útil ter um homem com as suas características bélicas consigo.Pouco a pouco, Conan e o capitão Tito desenvolvem uma forte cumplicidade.
As cenas de luta são épicas e não é de admirar que a Rainha da Costa Negra tenha ficado gravada como uma das obras mais populares de Robert E.
Howard's prose is not my preferred style but I knew that getting into this story and was pleasantly surprised as I read through it.
The first chapter almost lost me with a patently silly seduction scene but by the time that the plot properly kicked in, Howard begins to indulge in his Weirder interests and the tale really catches fire.
Further, despite the constant bulging sinew and thewy, steely, steel-hard thews, there is a grounded, visceral quality to Howard's descriptions of action that I found more compelling than some of his successors (Salvatore, etc.)Over all, fun and mindless.
Excellent bed time reading.
An amazing Conan tale. Conan, pirates, and best of all - Bêlit, the captain of a fierce pirate crew that follows her every whim without question. She's strong, relentless, bloodthirsty, pensive, and greedy. What a dynamic, fierce character. The conversation about the gods that she and Conan have is probably one of the most thought-provoking discussions in the entire original series. If you're interested in Conan at all, this is a must-read (um, as all Robert E Howard's Conan stories are - but if you're not going to read them all, make this one of them).
Conan the Barbarian seeks to battle the Queen of the Black Coast named Bayleet. Will he be victorious in his conquest? Read on and find out for yourself.I enjoyed the Dark Horse Comics Motion Comic of this short story on YouTube via Geek and Sundry's official YouTube channel with Vic Mignogna as Conan. If you like comics, definitely check this out for yourself online here at this link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nFFME...
This is definitely a step above your typical Conan story; some philosophical murmurings about the god, a big-breasted babe who is actually bad-ass and who Conan actually loves; some excellent, really excellent world-building ancient history...The pulp is thick but it's nourishing and a fountain of inspiration.
Typical Conan fare with loads of florid description and bloody action with strange mystical creatures and Conan bravura. A relatively short novella with a mere 5 chapters so a good stop-gap between longer books.It's wonderful stuff - if you enjoy pulp fiction.
I've read it before and while Belit is one of the iconic Howard characters, the story isn't one of my favorites. That said, it is still a solid tale. I listened to it via Librivox read by Phil Chenevert.
Refreshing pulp fiction. Fantasy from before fantasy became a thing.
This book, the first story especially, reminds me what a fantastic writer Howard is. This edition is particularly nice, with many great illustrations.
The kind of easy read that makes you want to keep reading. Obviously serialized, you could read Conan all day like watching a sitcom.
Dude can write a helluva purple fight scene.
Excerpt: Chapter 1Conan Joins the PiratesBelieve green buds awaken in the spring,That autumn paints the leaves with somber fire;Believe I held my heart inviolateTo lavish on one man my hot desire. The Song of Belit Hoofs drummed down the street that sloped to the wharfs. The folk that yelled and scattered had only a fleeting glimpse of a mailed figure on a black stallion, a wide scarlet cloak flowing out on the wind. Far up the street came the shout and clatter of pursuit, but the horseman did
The folk that yelled and scattered had only a fleeting glimpse of a mailed figure on a black stallion, a wide scarlet cloak flowing out on the wind.
The master, sturdy and black-bearded, stood in the bows, easing her away from the piles with a boat-hook.
He yelled angrily as the horseman sprang from the saddle and with a long leap landed squarely on the mid-deck."Who invited you aboard?""Get under way!" roared the intruder with a fierce gesture that spattered red drops from his broadsword."But we're bound for the coasts of Kush!" expostulated the master."Then I'm for Kush!
Conan makes his own sense of things, and 'seeing they were all mad, I drew my sword and cleft the judge's skull'.On the run he takes to the seas aboard a trading vessel, but when they are attacked and routed by the crew of a much feared ship The Temptress, he willingly becomes consort to their living goddess Belit, the white queen of the Black Coast, sharing a career of piracy and plunder upon the ships of the Stygian princes.
But they are not alone, awaiting them amongst the crumbling ruins is an ancient foe, last remaining member of the 'oldest race in the world'.'The Queen of the Black Coast' is a superior Conan story.
Based on my extensive research (meaning after a couple of Wikipedia searches), I learned that Howard was looking for an "epic" tone to this particular story, and apparently The Queen of the Black Coast is a favorite among Howard's fans.
So clearly this particular story is essential reading for Conan fans.Having said that, I didn't enjoy this story as much as I did The Hour of the Dragon.
The story starts strong, but the relationship between Conan and Bêlit, the pirate dubbed the Queen of the Black Coast, demands a lot of indulgence from the reader.
Howard/Conan story I've read.
It's very pulpy - I kind of chuckled when Belits response to Conan slaughtering a bunch of her men was pretty much "hey, boy, whactca doin'?
There's also a bit of a weird racial dynamic where Belit,the queen of the pirates is super white and all her men are black and worship her as a god, but it's not as jarring as some other old timey racism (like in H.P. Lovecraft).Overall I really did this and would suggest it too others.
Howard and Hemingway would not get along.
This was my first Conan read and I thoroughly enjoyed every gratuitous action scene and overly descriptive detail.
Essentially, Howard's style in this novelette is what I'd call adjective porn.
You can see glimpses of George R.R. Martin in the story, who cites Howard as an influence, but Howard takes it a step further and adds descriptors to nearly every word.
Regardless, there's something that's inherently fun about the story.
This story is fairly mindless entertainment.
Read it with the same intent you'd use for watching Die Hard or a James Bond movie.

*** Listened to a LibriVox Recording *** Somehow I never read any Conan before, but took a flyer and gave it a listen.
Wow. First off I was not prepared for the vocabulary.
Anyway, it packed a lot of drama and suspense, some horror, some fantasy, and romance all within a very short novel, and still managed to take time out for Conan to give a kind of pedantic little lecture on religion and gods.
This was quite a novel.

A testament to Howard's terrific writing here that a 140 page story can feel like I've read a novel or series of novels.
Cutting out any fat, this is a story that gets straight to the point, building up the love of Conan's life with surprisingly little effort and wrenching the hearts strings by story's end.
The action is possibly some of Howard's finest, starting with a bloody sea battle and ending in the monster filled wastes of a forgotten city.
So glad I finally read this after years of enjoying Conan's adventures and one I'll most definitely revisit.
Robert E.
Howard is my all time favorite writer, but for many years much of his work was heavily edited.
This is another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E.
Howard's stories.
I am a purist when it comes to a writers works.
I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another time period.
Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read.
Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Why do you read a Conan story?For the action, the blood, and the sexy women."Queen of the Black Coast" is chock full of all three. In fact, I believe the action scenes within in this story is Robert E. Howard at his finest. Belît is a terrifyingly beautiful heroine. I'm not sure if I'd want to cross her in a dark alley, but I wouldn't mind making our with her. If you read any Conan story make sure "Queen of the Black Coast" is at the top of your list.
