https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77596.Black_Orchids
Then I tried them on my phone, and found the sound quality so poor that I couldn't stand to listen to it.
And even more so because I can lie in my bed and check out an audio book from my local library via my Libby app, and never pay a late fine again!For my first foray into this wonderful new world, I chose an old favorite.
My good old friends.
Obviously Rex Stout ws a writer well ahead of his time.It's a good solid mystery.
And Archie's further ruminations on that epithet.I had several lovely afternoons with my old friends.
The book consists of two novellas - Black Orchids and Cordially Invited to Meet Death - with black orchids being the only connection between them.
Anybody familiar with the series knows Nero Wolfe grows orchids and would go to any lengths to acquire rare specimens, including the unthinkable like leaving his house.
Now Archie Goodwin has another job: go to the exhibition every day and report on them to Nero Wolfe.
Black orchids do exist, in fact several different kinds of them, but none of the real life variety is as black as described in the book; no wonder Nero Wolfe would do anything to get them.
I so love the manners of the 1940s and the digs by Archie on Wolfe. The second story had one redeeming line: A scream is a scream.
This 9th entry in the Nero Wolfe series is actually 2 separate (but connected) novellas: Black Orchids and Cordially Invited to Meet Death.
But these 2 novellas were both new to me!In Black Orchids, we learn how Wolfe managed to obtain these rare flowers for his collection (it is his fee!).
A good solid entry in the Wolfe series.
Secondly, this digital audiobook was copied from audio cassettes and the publisher hadn't bothered to edit out the "This is the end of tape 1, please insert tape 2 to continue this audiobook"-type comments.
This is an other great Nero Wolfe novel by the master story teller Rex Stout. This book features two investigations by the way overweight master armchair detective Nero Wolfe and his smart assed, lady killer assistant Archy Goodwin. Both investigations concern murder and are very intreagueing to the reader.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Two long Nero Wolfe novellas. The title story--with Archie attending the flower show--is very good. The other--involving a high society event planner and a chimp--is less successful. But both are fun.
I updated my stars to five on this story. I listened to the audio again last night. This story really is one of the funniest ones I have heard! Archie's comments are over the top.Nero actually goes out and attends a flower show. He has done it before, but Archie has never been so acerbic.
Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin in 1940 and Black Orchids are in both short stories. I liked both of them.
In the first novella ('Black Orchids'), an obnoxious young gardener is murdered at a flower show, where Nero Wolfe just happens to be on hand, having made one of his once-in-a-blue-moon excursions out of doors to ogle the world's only black orchids, which are on display at the show.
However, before Wolfe can really dive into the case, his client dies of tetanus poisoning, and her brother is certain she was murdered.
Wolfe sends flowers to the funeral--black orchids, no less--but claims to be both uninvolved and uninterested in the death of his client.
4.5 Stars"I don’t know how many guesses there have been in the past year, around bars and dinner tables, as to how Nero Wolfe got hold of the black orchids.
So here in this book are two separate Nero Wolfe cases, two different sets of people.
Further dampening his mood is the fact that Nero Wolfe has him going to the flower show each day to report back on the Black Orchids displayed there.
After four days of reports of these rare orchids, Wolfe cannot help himself.
Soon after, a prominent party planner comes to Nero Wolfe for help.
This is my FAVORITE Nero Wolfe story!
Wolfe eagerly takes on the case in hopes of adding some new orchids to his ever growing collection.I love The Black Orchids because it perfectly showcases the dynamic between Wolfe and Archie.
Readers experience Archie's snarky attitude and his joy at badgering his boss through his narration.
Wolfe even verbally spars with two female witnesses in The Black Orchids.Read it!
The Nero Wolfe books are not as gritty as most hardboiled crime pieces but I personally enjoy the humorous aspects.
Have you read any Rex Stout?
I got this books from my mom for Christmas and thoroughly enjoyed it.
I am a big mystery fan --Agatha Christie and Murder She Wrote in particular.
I have found a new favorite!
Stay tuned for more Nero Wolfe mysteries as I read them.
The characters of Nero and Archie are so compelling, and I love Archie's sense of humor.
This volume actually has two mysteries in it- Black Orchids and Cordially Invited to Meet Death.
The mysteries are full of great period details, Wolfe's obsession with his orchids, and I wasn't able to guess the solution before they did!
“It would take an extremely unattractive person to think of that."--Nero Wolfe, on the plot of "Cordially Invited to Meet Death" by Rex Stout, p. 159 of 192”“I got the address from her, and by good luck it wasn't Bucyrus, Ohio, but merely Brooklyn. Whatever else you want to say about Brooklyn, and so do I, it does have one big advantage, it's close.” --Archie Goodwin
Loved it.
This one is a two-fer, and both were excellent. I absolutely love the interjected humor. My literary crush, Archie, was at his witty best in Black Orchids.
Scott and I are big fans of mystery movies and have watched many of the classic detective series (Poirot, Marple, Morse, Holmes, Campion, Allen, etc), some in all versions available.
Nero Wolfe was one we recently came across and we LOVED the A&E adaptation.
The DVD episodes are some of our favorites and consequently I bought Scott both seasons (that's all A&E produced) and have been enjoying them for the past 6 months.
Now that they are over, I'm glad I have the books to enjoy also.
I love fun mysteries!
An excellent pair of novels. The first was interesting, but not superb. The story started enjoyably, and the flower show scenes with Wolfe were quite comedic,But it lagged a little in the middle, only coming back to its former intrigue at the denouement. However, the second was excellent throughout, and I thoroughly enjoyed it from start to finish. Wolfe was irascible and ingenious again, and on the whole, Black Orchids was an excellent, easy read.
This was two short novellas with a loose connection. Unlike other short stories, these were complete well formed stories. All of the classic Nero Wolfe elements were present and both were fun to read. If I were to pick one, I'd give the edge to the first story as being superior. It has Wolfe, leaving the Brownstone and includes more of the usual supporting cast. However both are fun and time with Wolfe and Archie is always fun.
My Grade = 85% - BAnother good one.....Short and sweet.....Murder at a flower show.....One interesting note: At one point Archie [Goodwin] was supposed to go somewhere, but he wouldn't because he was hungry, so he went to the kitchen and ate two (cereal) bowls of saltine crackers and milk. I never heard of that one before, so I googled it and found it was a traditional Southern favorite (even though Archie was from Ohio). Another variation is to use graham crackers.
This is a two story book. The first story is about how Wolfe acquired black orchids and the second is about a client to whom he sent black orchids.The first one, in particular, is wonderful. It's Archie at his best. He has breezily decided he is in love with one of the models at a flower show. And his descriptions and behavior are quintessential. Also, the moment he gives her up and his reasons for it are so Archie.
Ok, ok, mi manca metà libro ma in valigia non ci sta... Nero Wolfe non delude mai, e nel primo dei due racconti, in cui si parla proprio di queste orchidee, troviamo un Archie sempre più affascinante e un Nero sempre più burbero e... morbido!Consigliatissimo, naturalmente, anche con il secondo racconto a scatola chiusa!
Nero Wolfe books never disappoint. This one was unique in that Wolfe actually left his home to attend a flower show. The crime was at the show, but the solution was again revealed in Wolfe's drawing room with the parties involved assembled. I love the 'revealing' of the murderer.
The best part of it is Archie's continuing insistence that he's going to get married, but since he falls for some "babe" in every book, we know he's not leaving Wolfe any time soon and I found myself waiting gleefully for the moment when Archie realizes that there are no wedding bells in his future.
Stout's use of words and phrases had me reading sections out loud to my family because they were just too funny not to share.
I highly recommend this book, and you don't even have to read any of the others to get this one.
These two short mysteries are tied together by some black orchids, as the title indicates.
The first happens at a flower show where the orchids are on display, the second is centered around the home of a socialite/party arranger (who basically keeps a zoo at her house).
You are always going to get a decent murder mystery, you are very likely to get something revealed about Archie and Nero (at the very least you will get some good banter between them), Archie will likely fixate on a pair of legs, Inspector Kramer will get frustrated by Nero's reticence, etc.
:) For future reference, this book is actually one main novel and a short story that follows, both involving the black orchids of the title.
The novel is about a guy that get murdered in a garden exhibit, and it involves a cane, Archie, and a guy Wolfe wants to persuade to give him a black orchid.
And the short story is about a lady with an orangutan for a pet.
:) I did quite like the second leading lady in that story, the Southern belle who knew all about chitlins' in corned hash.[Re-read; first read 2008.]
BLACK ORCHIDS & CORDIALLY INVITED INTO DEATH BY REX STOUT are two old friends to me.
Wolfe literally blackmails the owner of the orchids , Lewis Hewitt,whom we will see in other Nero Wolfe novels.
Mr.Hewitt not only owns the three black orchids but is the honorary chairperson of the Orchid show.
Mr. Hewitt,or rather his cane , figures prominently in the murder & Wolfe takes the advantage to get ahold of the orchids.These two novellas are not some of Mr. Stouts greatest works, but even today are still pleasant and entertaining to read & re-read.
If this isn't my favorite Nero Wolfe mystery, it's definitely close to whichever one is.
I like everything about Black Orchids.
I like that it's two short mysteries that aren't long enough to have the problem of being overly drawn out that some of the Nero Wolfe stories suffer from.
I like that there's the common theme of the black orchids that nicely tie the two stories together.
I like that Nero Wolfe went out of the house in this one.
I like that the last one leaves you a little curious at the end but not unsatisfied.
This is the fourth or fifth time I've read this collection of two novellas loosely connected by the titled Black Orchids.
Though plotting is generally not Stout's strong suit, this book features two of his most entertainingly conceived murders.
But the banter between Archie Goodwin and Nero Wolfe is the major reason I continue to read and reread this series.
Nero's verbal exchange with one of his operatives about whether "contact" can be used as a verb pleasantly stood out in this reading with Nero dropping the mic by saying, "Contact is not a verb under this roof." Indeed a pleasure!
My First Nero Wolfe MysteryThis was my first Nero Wolfe mystery. The book is actually split into two novellas. The first, Black Orchids, is just okay in my opinion. It assumes you know something about the main characters. The other characters were not all that interesting and I had a hard time following the story. The second, Cordially Invited to Meet Death, is much better. I recommend reading that one first. The characters are more interesting, the setting is weird and the solution is satisfying.

