https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29744.Goodbye_Columbus_and_Five_Short_Stories
This is his first book. Screw him.
This collection of stories is splendid. Unbelievable that they were the very first ones Roth published as they are already so evocative and polished. If you were put off by Roth because you only read Portnoy's Complaint or Sabbath's Theater, you should read this book to see that there is a whole other side to Roth and a beautiful sensitivity as well.RIP (1933-2018). One of America's literary giants has left us.
Roth scende sotto la soglia della percezione, per parlarci di amore e passione, del brivido dei corpi che si incontrano, dell'attrito tra le differenze personali e sociali, di come spesso la tristezza sia dolce e la nostalgia imprevedibile, quando davvero si provano sentimenti autentici.
Racconta di un ragazzo che perde la testa e sale sul tetto di una sinagoga osservando come in un cielo capovolto il rabbino, i compagni e i vigili del fuoco; descrive come un avvocato laico perda la ragione nel contatto con l'ortodossia e il sacro, narra l'infedeltà di un inguaribile romantico che spinge il desiderio fino ai limiti fisici e spirituali.
So although we do get the rotten novella out of the way in the beginning (**), the short stories are very good (****).
Earlier Roth is way more playful here than anything that comes later (you hardly ever laugh in any of his dramatic American tragedies); dare I say, picaresque?Two of the stories are even about childhood, which we NEVER really see in his beloved novels.
His own short story collection at the beginning of his career, "The Cubs and Other Stories," likewise portrays children and childhood--what it is to be green in something one day you will master!
"Curiously, the darkness seemed to have something to do with Harriet, Ron's intended, and I thought for a time that it was simply the reality of Harriet's arrival that had dramatized the passing of time: we had been talking about it and now suddenly it was here — just as Brenda's departure would be here before we knew it." -Goodbye, ColumbusHow often do I think of the passing of time in this way, as Roth describes it in this poignant, wistful and utterly beautiful book.
If Truman Capote’s Breakfast at Tiffany’s is the New York novella about flirting with the city’s upper crust, then Philip Roth’s Goodbye, Columbus is the suburban story for the rest of us.A coming-of-age story about a summer romance, it plumbs tensions from class, generational, religious, and educational differences, and it does so in a way that is instinctive and visceral.
Yes. A complex but natural read.Would I teach it?
Yes, but it would have to be to the right group.
Is it any wonder that Philip Roth is one of the most awarded authors to ever live? This, his first book, is written so well, that it almost doesn't matter what the stories (there's one novella and a handful of short stories) are about. Reading Mr. Roth is like fine dining. Nobody expects some unthinkable twist at the end of a delicious meal. That said, Mr. Roth's endings do not disappoint. These are incredibly well-written stories that I'd recommend to anybody wanting to see English put to its best use.
foi o primeiro livro de Philip Roth e a estreia não podia ter sido mais auspiciosa. muitíssimo bom, deliciosamente irónico. a classificação que lhe dei é um bocado irrelevante para mim. dei 4 mas poderia ter dado 5.
Ne emerge da un lato un libro scoppiettante di umorismo ma capace di toccare tematiche profonde, che tratta tematiche giovanili dal punto di vista giovanile ma già capace di grande maturità; per gli amanti del grande scrittore di Newark un'interessantissima opera sia per capire come l'avanzare degli anni ha inciso sulla sua produzione sia per godersi al meglio le grandi doti di affabulatore e la stregonesca capacità di prosatore senza dover per forza affrontare la rabbia ed il cinismo del disilluso Animale Morente.Per gli amanti dell'ottima letteratura, consigliato.
In realtà non avevamo i sentimenti che dicevamo di avere finchè non riuscivamo ad esprimerli:io,per lo meno ;enunciarli era inventarli e possederli.Montavamo la nostra estraneità e la nostra inesperienza in una spuma che somigliava all'amore,e non avevamo il coraggio di giocarci troppo a lungo,di parlarne troppo ,per timore che si afflosciasse e finisse in niente.Così facevamo la spola tra le sedie e l'acqua della piscina,tra le chiacchiere e il silenzio,e considerando l'incrollabile nervosismo in cui mi precipitava la compagnia di Brenda, e le alte mura di egocentrismo che si ergevano,contrafforti e tutto,tra lei e la sua conoscenza di se stessa, ce la cavammo piuttosto bene.Questo è l'esordio di P.Roth...e direi che se l'è cavata piuttosto bene, il giovane Philip, altrochè!
1 νουβέλα και 5 διηγήματα! Το πρώτο βιβλίο που έγραψε ο Roth όταν ήταν 26 χρονών! Και μόνο για αυτό το λόγο αξίζει τα 4 αστεράκια!!!
I chose Goodbye, Columbus as a read aloud book to share with someone special and hearing or speaking Roth's words made me much more aware of the humor and the cadence of the New Jersey Jewish speech.
It definitely shows Roth as a skilled young writer.
And I will never forget Hannah Schreiber who, though she doesn’t make a real appearance in the book, has one of the most memorable lines: “Leo Patimkin, I believe in oral love.” Don’t we all, Hannah Schreiber, don’t we all.
Okay, so this is finally happening.---I assumed I'd have some overpowering reaction to this now that I was finally reading it (I only read the novella, not the other stories), but I didn't.
Now I guess I get why people like Philip Roth so much: he's a terrific writer, and I enjoyed reading this book.
Again, it was very good, though the only thing I think will really stick with me is how glad I am not to be female in the nineteen-fifties.
The mourning of one’s woes in public, at the expense of patient listeners, the fact that Jewish men at 23 were expected to live at home with their parents, that pre-marital sex even with a diaphragm was considered grounds for family upheaval, and that even the military had to accommodate for Kosher food, must have been uncomfortable skeletons to be aired for upwardly mobile Jews trying to make it in the New World and become part of the mainstream.
The first-ever book by Philip Roth that I read, in college, for a course in Literature & Film, "Goodbye, Columbus" is a semi-autobiographical story about young love/lust.
I fell in love with the book and Roth's prose style immediately.
For a long period (involving most of my 20s and the early years of my 30s), I voraciously read anything and everything Roth wrote.
I still have the utmost respect for Roth, and I still consider him one of my personal favorite writers, but "Goodbye, Columbus" is forever a part of my confused 20-something cache of memories to which I can no longer return.
While an excellent book, "Nemesis" does not have the verve of Roth in his rambunctious, iconoclastic youth.Both the early and the late Roth novels feature a 23-year old male Jewish protagonist from the lower middle class of Newark, New Jersey.
Roth has a remarkable ear for colloquialism and for the rhythmic speech patterns of Newark Jews.The story centers on a summer romance between Neil and Brenda Patimkin of the suburb of Short Hills.
Much of "Goodbye Columbus" centers upon the brother's garish wedding to a young woman from the midwest."Goodbye, Columbus" tells the story of the relationship between Neil and Brenda, which begins by chance, and quickly over a summer becomes intense and sexual.
During the hubbub around the recent awarding of a Man Booker prize to Philip Roth, I was moved to revisit him by reading this novella, published when he was 26.
I initially sided with Carmen Calil, the Booker judge who abandoned the committee when the two-to-one vote favored Roth.
If you have some spare summer moments, pick up this book and reflect on the Roth Question, which was hot last week, upon his acceptance of the prize, and which comes up every time he publishes a creaky Zuckerman novel.
I wasn't really sure where "Goodbye, Columbus" (the title piece of the collection) was going at first and didn't like any of the characters, but Roth has a special way of making seemingly inconsequential things become transformative and meaningful.
I still vehemently disliked the characters at the end, but was somehow touched by them.Many of the other stories in this collection are similar in this way.
I knew that this was Roth's first book, but I didn't know he was 26 when it came out!
It's probably a stronger debut than that other 20th C.
American wunderkind Fitzgerald's (younger!) debut book, This Side of Paradise, but I think this book does more for setting expectations about themes and voices for Roth's career than Paradise did for soggy old F.
And if there is a more distilled, earlier version of what came to be known as the stereotypical Jewish-American voice, I have not yet seen it--I've got to imagine that Roth's influence on our culture is extensive.
Три сцены - мальчик, листающий в библиотеке альбом с репродукциями Гогена; брат мистера Патимкина Лео, на свадебной вечеринке рассказывающий Нилу свою жизнь; Нил, обыгрывающий девочку в пинг-понг. Идеально.
"Goodbye, Columbus" is absolutely a masterpiece, and I was completely struck by the difference in tone and structure between the two."Goodbye, Columbus", at its heart, is a novella and collection of short stories that address the Jewish Diaspora.
Ranging from the flirtatious exchanges between Neil and Brenda to the absolutely brilliant monologue of Uncle Leo at the wedding, there's an abundance of humor and heart and cringe-inducing familial dynamics to get the blood pumping.However, my favorite part of the entire book was the "The Conversion of the Jews" short story about a child who brings his small community to their knees by threatening to jump off a roof.
Este es el noveno libro de Roth que me leo.
Hasta ahora siempre me había quejado de lo mismo, me daba la impresión de que no sabía cerrar bien las historias, de que sus finales nunca eran redondos.
La historia termina de una manera incluso más abrupta que de costumbre.
No se si Roth lo hace aposta o no, pero me doy cuenta ahora de que sus historias suelen empezar también de manera abrupta.
En la vida real no existen los principios ni los finales redondos, las historias empiezan antes de que uno nazca y siguen su curso cuando uno se muere.
I needed to read this because it's Roth's urtext, and because I seem to be reading through Roth intermittently but steadily.
It has that youthful angsty atmosphere that permeates many debut romans à clef (like The Bell Jar, The Rachel Papers, The Catcher in the Rye) and it introduces sexual dilemmas which I'm guessing were quite cutting edge in 1959.
The five short stories following the novella are severely Jewish (yeshivas and the like).One of my favorite passages: "...his short sleeves squeezed tight around his monstrous arms as though they were taking his own blood pressure..." (from the story "You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings").

By today's standards, the title novella is much ado about a diaphragm, but must have been hot stuff in its day. The other stories are still great.
A few weeks ago I bumped into an article titled “Is David Blatt a Philip Roth Character?”To those of you who do not know, David Blatt is the head coach of the Cavs He is Jewish and Lived for the last 30 years in Israel I had not heard of Philip Roth and I decided to read one of his novels A collection of 5 short stories, I liked most of .The book seems at many stages as a Woody Allen movie script, and I found some of the scenes funny.Since then I imagine how David Blatt would sound as a Philip Roth Character so here it is:: Hi Mom: Dudinka….
I was really disappointed by this book.Philip Roth is one of those authors where he's so highly regarded by so many people that to say I don't get it feels like I'm announcing to the world that I'm an idiot, but I don't get it.I felt depressed by how thoroughly mediocre every character is.
I don't know how else to describe it.The best thing I can say is occasionally his descriptions made me stop and go, "Wow, that is excellent writing."I really need help to understand what other people are seeing here.
Most reviews are just like, "Philip Roth: such genius." Do I need historical context?
Goodbye, Columbus: 3*La prima storia, che da' anche il titolo al volume, è agro-dolce: l'innamoramento vissuto con tutte le paure del primo bacio, della "prima volta", dei primi screzi.
La storia è appassionante e l'ho letta tutto d'un fiato per scoprire come andasse a finire (anche se durante la lettura i segni erano abbastanza premonitori).La conversione degli ebrei: 3*Molto carina e divertente.
;-)Considerazioni generali: Non ho qui ritrovato la potente prosa della trilogia sull'America, che mi aveva fatto innamorare di Roth.
Ho però ritrovato un sarcasmo ed una ironia dissacrante verso tutto e tutti, che è un'altra delle specificità di Roth che adoro.Chissà perché, leggendo, mi veniva in mente Woody Allen!!!
When I first read Roth's Portnoy's Complaint in college, I confess that I was socially unable to truly understand it.
Unlike others, I saw this as a natural outgrowth of the world, but that's another issue.I loved the rebellion of our young protagonist, his sense of being lost but determined to make the best of what was there, essentially educating himself on the more important things in life, especially reading.
Even as a post social rebellion teenager, I felt like I might have wanted to be born twenty years previous.
but the stories are where roth shines in my opinion.
the first two, "the conversion of the jews" and "defender of the faith" i'd read before, but like any good story, they are both deserving of a second, third, fourth...read.
but they all capture a slice from the protagonist's life where his jewish faith, heritage, and culture are at odds with the life he has chosen or that has been chosen for him.
which seems to be a theme for roth.
a good one i think, since it seems that is something we all struggle with no matter our faith, culture, heritage, or family ties.
