https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546001.Find_and_Use_Your_Inner_Power
I found this book very randomly one day in a moment of complete dispair.
May I repeat, it was a random find in a box given to me by my mom...
in one of my darkest moments.
She had never even seen it before and had no idea how it had gotten there.
It is a book of little essays regarding some basic principles of getting to know your inner self and connecting with your spiritual nature.
It was very helpful in my time of need and I hope that others may find is as useful as I did.
One of the greatest New Thought authors, Emmet Fox, has written many wonderful books, including Find and Use Your Inner Power. This book is not a book like most of this author's other books, however. This book is a collection of short compositions that are meant to be read one at a time so that the reader gives time to pause and reflect on the meaning. This book is thought provoking and inspiring. http://www.returnoftheway.com/
A Must ReadOne of the best spiritual books I have ever read. This book and around the year with Emmett fox are staples for me and have been for years. They are life changers.
Changed my lifeEmmet Fox has become my morning meditation. Though he wrote in the 1930's, his insight into prayer as treatment continues to be fresh and effective. Amazingly enough, his insight is apparent in Eckhart tolle's work. Both identity the solution to mankind's struggles as being fully aware of the here and now and letting ones Higher Power take the lead. Both challenge us to escape the thoughts that so crowd our spiritual selves. Simple but not easy.
This is a great little book, filled with a lot of big ideas. Inspirational and very uplifting, the author is Christ centered, with a meteaphysical twist, the author is pretty authentic with his wisdom and teachings. It is simple to read, and the lessons are all only one page long. Every bit of wisdom that leads you closer to God is worth reading.
One of the most insightful and timeless accounts I've ever experienced (minus the hints of classism and cultural bias, from which most humans are not exempt). It's inspiring me to challenge my own being and look for more within myself.
I just randomly open this book in the morning and read a page of it every day. I love this book, it's smart and funny and it reminds me what is important...along with not to take everything too seriously
This is one of Mr. Fox's little gems. I usually read a chapter each morning before I leave for work and it never fails to help me have a positive day.
Emmet Fox writes about the spiritual laws that govern the universe in simple and practical way. Each page deals with a seperate topic.
a great read, and a great go back to book for daily inspiration. even others in the household are picking up and reading it 'secretly'... what begins in the mind becomes clear an action.
profound little instruction book - some of the parts can be found in other Emmet Fox books, but there are many new pages
Once again, Emmet Fox delivers powerful messages. I highly recommend it.
