https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102104.Who_Wrote_the_Bible_
I would consider a "complete, unabridged Bible" to consist of all texts either used by, or referenced by, any Abrahamic sect whatsoever from 2,200 B.C. through to 1,400 A.D., plus the Book of Mormon (it is as legitimate as any other sect, which isn't saying much).
No such book has ever been compiled, but the word "Bible" means "The Book".
The only true singular book you could ever have that can be true to every Abrahamic group (and if it can't be, it's not singular) is a book that includes everything that has ever been relevant to any of them.
Friedman, a Harvard trained Biblical scholar, concisely walks us through the history of Old Testament scholarship while arguing for his own theories on who wrote specific portions, when, what their motivations were, and how and by whom the book was compiled.
Because of dogmatic opposition these issues could not be fully explored until the 19th century, when scholars began to discover that there are actually several different writing styles, and even several different versions of Old Testament stories throughout the text.
But the stories about creation, Abraham, Moses - the bedrock of Judaism and Christianity - were written by individuals with specific political and religious motivations.

That's not to say there aren't things to disagree with here – the dates and identities of the various sources are always debatable, and I would quibble with pieces of it myself – but the basic thrust of Friedman's thesis remains salient: that the historical record of the Old Testament reflects the conflicting opinions of at least two, and likely more, schools of thought who cobbled together oral traditions and ancient writings into what we know as the Pentateuch and the books of Joshua, Judges 1 and 2 Samuel, and 1 and 2 Kings (also known as the Deuteronomic History).
First, a little title clarification: the title should be "Who wrote the Old Testament, but we're mostly going to talk about the Pentateuch."That being said, it was an interesting take from a foremost bible scholar into the latest academic research into the authorship of the Bible.
If even one of the foundational assumptions is incorrect, the whole hypothesis falls apart.In the end, I suppose from a theological point of view the answer to the question of authorship is interesting but not essential.
In fact, the majority of world religions both Jewish and Christian easily reconcile the authorship questions with their theological views.
For a book so read and analyzed, what continues to puzzle us even at this very hour is a staggering question: Who the hell wrote it?Richard Friedman's popular treatment of biblical scholarship cracks open the lid on this mystery.
They say Moses wrote the five books of the Torah.
Biblical literalists will no doubt get a nosebleed contending something like this, but for those of you who are interested in the history behind the world's unrivaled bestseller, take a look at the core modern theory of where it came from.
The J and E are roughly contemporary, from the time of the Northern kingdom and the Kingdom of Yehuda (Solomon's kids southern kingdom): J=Jehovah vs E for Elohim via the Hebrew names for God: two ancient texts combined into one.
Now I can read and study these texts in the knowledge that it is no secret that these writings were put together for a purpose by multiple people, yet serve a purpose greater perhaps than even the redactor himself could have forseen at the time.
Friedman does a very good job of bringing biblical research to the public- but not in a fictionalized and very skewed way, as Dan Brown did, but with meticulous scholarship.
He also gives a brief introduction to the study of authorship; the accepted tradition was that Moses had written all 5 books- yet they refer to things that happen after Moses died, and as Friedman points out, there is a reference to Moses being the most humble man on earth.
His argument is that, at least the Pentateuch, was written at different times by different scribes/priests whose views were shaped by their own political and economic interests in relation to the times in which they lived and then later combined and edited by someone else (Ezra?), all of which resulted in contradictions, inconsistencies, and a fusion that included implications intended by none of them!
Without so intending, the ultimate editor ("Redactor") created one of the central mysteries that has confounded Jews and Christians for two-thousand years!Friedman also makes a point with which I can relate, and that is, the Bible was the first history book ever written, and so the intrinsic problems of writing history could not have been fully appreciated by the authors and editor.

It has made me want to continue on my quest of learning about my religion and so forth.AFTER READING THE BOOK:This is the best book on how the Old Testament came to be.
It also helps me learn about the contradictions in the bible.
It will make lovers of the bible gasp as the revelations are revealed!!
Lastly it will have you read the Old Testament in a different light.
If you choose to believe what the author is saying or not, this book will fuel you to modify your view of the Old Testament.
الكتاب اكثر من رائع ومفيد جدا فى فهم كيف كتب الكتاب المقدس ومن كتب هذا الكتاب الذى اثر فى الملايين ع
Un análisis excepcionalmente claro y accesible sobre quién escribió el Pentateuco (no la Biblia en su totalidad) y la historia de cómo llegó a ser el libro que es. Dada la abrumadora relevancia de la Biblia en nuestra civilización (historia, costumbres, lenguaje, ...), este ensayo podría considerarse imprescindible.Es cierto que para mí convierte la Biblia en el más humano de los libros, pero estoy seguro de que para los creyentes, sin que sea contradictorio, también lo transforma en un hecho divino.Fabuloso.
Recommended to anyone who is interested in the origin of the Old Testament.
(Others include On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society and The Social Animal: The Hidden Sources of Love, Character, and Achievement).When I was much younger I had heard of the documentary hypothesis--which is the idea that the Bible (especially the first five books) was written by a collection of people who were not Moses--but I dismissed it.
In either case, the result is that the Flood narrative in Genesis can't be casually reduced to its two source texts, but has to be taken as an integrated whole.That point, by the way, is not entirely in contradiction with Friedman's own conclusions.
Delving further into textual analysis and historical data, Friedman sets out to identify each of the writers and to explain the relationship of the authors to each other.What he concluded was that the way in which each of the four authors wrote or interpreted stories was indicative of, and formed by, their place and time.
He grounds each writer in the history of Israel and Judah, and explains why they wrote some of things they did (ex: why sacrifice at a central temple was important during Judean law reform).
While Friedman did provide logical evidence for his theories, because of the nature of textual analysis it’s hard to find any definitive proof.
Friedman is intellectually honest throughout, beginning with due reverence for the pioneers of Higher Criticism and admitting that the messy and tortuous path to his conclusions has been excised from the narrative.
Alas, I don't think many traditionally-minded believers will be mollified by his arguments for how Higher Criticism enhances one's appreciation for the Bible, but I'm certain it comes from a place of sincerity.Friedman utilizes both literary and archaeological resources in his analysis, but the balance seems to lie with the former and I'm curious as to what a more archaeology-dependent approach would do to his conclusions.
When I first read this book, I was quite impressed with its deft argument that several different "authors" (or voices or schools of thought) had written the Torah (which are the books with which the author is concerned) but, after some consideration, I cannot say I find these "findings" all that interesting and, anyhow, they could have other origins.
Rather than two different (or more) authors arguing about the right to the priesthood, a single author could be chronicling a debate amongst various factions, and this point applies to other arguments he makes.
The first five books of the bible are the hardest to read, and while reading this book I began to understand why. Tribal rivals, different groups of priests, various cultures, all had a hand in changing the traditional stories around a bit, just enough to glorify their heroes and defame those of the other guys. And the different versions are cut and pasted. There is plenty of historical background as well, and I think it may be easier to read Deuteronomy now.
Well written, but the author's conclusions and arguments were not able to refute the authority of other scholars (i.e. Welhausen) in a satisfactory and thorough manner. I acknowledge I'm being pretentious writing that above review.
A great source for anyone in a weekly Torah study group or interested in the authorship of various parts of the Torah. Not really a book to read, nor would it be my first source as a Torah as it contains no commentary but invaluable as a source when discussing who wrote what, when, etc.
Clearest and most accessible introduction to the Documentary Hypothesis and related issues in Pentateuchal scholarship that I’ve read.
C. The chapter content may be organized as follows: The pre-Monarchic Israelite world, the rise of the Monarchy, the Davidic kingdom, the Solomonic kingdom, Israel and Judah, Jeroboam's priests, and the fall of Israel.
The following three chapters (5, 6, and 7) one reads the reasons for positing a "D" source, its different versions, how it relates to its surrounding history and environment, and the identity of the person(s) Dr. Friedman believes authored the Deuteronomistic source.
Spoiler alert, you will recognize full well two of the authors, as their names are in the book of books.Friedman even includes a section dealing with the inevitable question that this book brings up: how does knowing the human history of the document affect a person's faith?
Friedman doesn't suppose to categorically tell anyone how to feel, what to believe, but talks candidly about his own experience, and how he has answered that question after years of pursuing this study.To answer the question myself: As much as I have always believed that the Bible is the word of God, I have also always believed that it was the work of humans.
Like much of this book's target audience, I am only familiar with the Bible to the extent that it was taught as a religious text in church.
(I went to church when younger but am not religious at all now.) Therefore it's hard for me to judge whether this book is necessarily a good introduction into biblical scholarship, as I am not familiar with the field in general, any opposing schools of thought, or any debate regarding the merits of the evidence used in the writing.
The author, Richard Friedman, depicts the Torah as the stitched and edited product of several other works written many years apart, each of which was influenced by its author's time and place in the history of ancient Israel and Judah.
This book made me realize that we need to be a little more liberal with what we mean by "translated," because Friedman has convinced me that there are different voices with different, sometimes competing, agendas present in the biblical text.
It's a great start, and even if you don't agree with some of its conclusions (and I do not myself), it will force you to analyze the text in more detail than you have before, and that can't be a bad thing, because the Bible is inspired, however it got to us in its present form.
I "borrowed" this book from my folks, without a clue as to its position on who authored the Bible.
Without spoiling it for you, Friedman explains the motivations and world views, among other things, of the authors or compilers of the Old Testament from Genesis to 2 Chronicles, and he brings the events and stories and figures of the Old Testament to life.
Part of the book is a little dry and scholarly, but that's a very small price to pay for what you get out of the book.It's an entertaining read, sort of like a mystery novel in a way.
You'll be enlightened and entertained to find out.
This book was fantastic.
The history of J, E, D and P and the author's hypothesis on who wrote the books and why th redactor put them together in such a way is well derived and adequately supported.
Not once was the material dry and in fact the end of each chapter compelled me to start the next.
I like the way the book was segmented into short parts per chapter.
If you had to put the book down for other things this made for easy pause points.
I am looking forward to reading more books by Richard Elliott Friedman.
You're never going to find a more interesting book on the documentary hypothesis.
This is source criticism with the soul of a detective story.
By the end you will have a very clear idea of how literary studies, history, and archaeology can be combined to search for the authors of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament).
Lines of evidence are presented in a way that is highly accessible to the non-specialist.
Friedman is also very even-handed, distinguishing between his more speculative assertions and conclusions held more widely.
The book ends with a profound reflection on how this kind of study can be useful to the readers of the Bible.
Pretty interesting stuff on how the bible was probably written by different people at different times, always spinning stuff to fit their particular political/cultural/social concerns.
It all seems plausible, but the nature of the problem means that a short popularizing book like this isn't all that convincing to me.
I just couldn't judge the bits where he goes "so we found three different sets of metaphors used in this book, so there must have been three different authors." Couldn't you do the same kind of parsing-out of a book written by a single author?
Without more details it's kind of hard to assess.
