https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12558285-splintered
Probably because the author needs you to think the evil bitch deserves it when Mary Sue wins the guy.And lets talk about Jeb and Alyssa, shall we?
Not only does this macho asshole think he can tell Alyssa to stop her relationship, but virginity is "an important part of you"?
Despite the fact that Jeb is an abusive piece of shit, Alyssa still crushes on him throughout the book (blushing as she does it, of course, so you don't mistake her for one of those evil slutty girls).
Who is, by far, the most interesting thing about this book.
I'm not giving it any stars because it's my brainchild. :) But I will say that I love my heroine and her two guys (the good one and the naughty one) and I had a blast warping up Wonderland. ;)

The author is also one of those wonderful creatures whose pre-finished books are clean enough to read.
I read this in manuscript, pre-galleys, and the writing was so polished that I only noticed one error in the text.
THAT is rare.SPLINTERED is a great companion read to Carroll's ALICE IN WONDERLAND without disrespecting the original text in any way.
Honestly, I was hesitant to read it because of the ALICE association.
It's also the first book I've read that I could say was actually a read-alike for my Wicked Lovely series.
It's a read-alike without being derivative.Most of all, though, SPLINTERED is simply a delicious, disturbing, mad, wonderful read.
seeing the cover seeing it's another Alice in Wonderland idea  seeing that it actually sounds amazing   fangirling with everyone on goodreads seeing the release date
Besides the fact that he was as good as useless to the entire plot, he had no respect all for Alyssa's opinions or decisions.
"Jeb, I think--" "Shut the fuck up.
He treated her like a fucking puppy.
Its not even like I'm reading too much into this because Morpheus kept pointing it out.
What the fuck is wrong with his mindset?Alyssa fell into his bullshit everytime.
That's all I have to say.Morpheus had his bullshit detector on the entire time which made me love him.
Just no with Jeb though.
More reviews @ The Beautiful World of booksDNF halfway through...What I felt about the cover-What I felt when I started reading this book-What I felt about the main character-What I felt about the male love interests- What I felt about the love triangle-What I felt about the plot-What I felt about the writing-My feelings for the book-My final verdict-..............................................................................................................................
Sometime during summer, I took this book in my hands, looked at it lovingly, and sighed before opening the first page and starting my reading of it.Oh, it so isn’t the dark but magical story I anticipated. It’s been months since I’ve put it aside to rot next to other books waiting for my interest to rekindle, but I just think that will never happen, because the only thing I like about it is MORPHEUS. So DNF for now (and probably for ever). Oh well, happily never after.
So instead of it feeling like a simple retelling, it's more along the lines of an extension of the original because it's clear that Howard left no stone unturned when it came to crafting the her Wonderland.If that isn't enough to entice you, there's also this gothic feel the novel carries, especially in the beginning when the mystery of Alyssa's past is at it's strongest.
However, I should note that it did not detract from my personal enjoyment from the novel much.The Characters:My biggest problem would have to be Jeb, Alyssa's best friend.
“He starts to hum, a haunting melody. No words ride the music, only the familiar notes of a forgotten song.” Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐When I was little I could never quite decide which fairy tale was my favorite. But the older I was, the more I was fascinated by Alice and her adventure in wonderland. The thing I liked the most of it? The craziness, the insane and illogical things in it. And the huge amount of fantasy for creating a world like this. But I always felt like the story was too childish, too naive
In the end that changes, but still, it’s a bit annoying that even though she could’ve easily saved her a lot of trouble and emotions by going through her adventure alone, she still chose to be guided by her all time hero Jeb. Okay.
I hated Jeb. Didn’t start liking him throughout the book, even though I maybe should have.
In my opinion this book could’ve easily live without a stupid love triangle (especially Jeb in it...), because Alyssa is a great female character and could’ve been a huge female hero.
We are giving our food a fighting chance.”I knew going into this book that I would either love it or hate it and to be honest, I more so expected the latter.
Through the Looking Glass is one of my favourite books and as such I knew I would be drawing comparisons the whole time.
Lucky for me, I loved this book.
I also found the events of the story aligned much more with Through the Looking Glass than they did with Wonderland, which got kind of confusing for spoilery reasons.
I'm going to try to finally finish these booksSo after re-reading this I was quickly going down to a 3 star, maybe less - just because of Jeb's character.
I mean he's hot and all and he's does good things sometimes, but for the most part he just sucks!
And even though Morpheus did some devious things in the book, I just love him and his beautiful blue wings =)The thing is, Alyssa is related to the Alice Liddell that Lewis Carroll wrote about and they all go mad .
But no, she just ends up going to Wonderland to be with Morpheus and try to help her mom.
*there's probably going to be a lot of grammatical errors in this review because i'm a lazy shit*i honestly don't know what to think of this one.
so the beginning actually gave me a lot of typical ya contemporary with some magic realism vibes.
it was rather bland and dull and seemed a lot like a ya contemporary to me.
felt like a ya contemporary magic realism fam.the writing was kind of immature-ish and really dull and bland.
unlike, jeb, the piece of shit, he's not a controlling, abusive asshole and pushes alyssa to do her best.
They often visit her mother in the asylum, even if each visit is painful to them both, seeing their loved one in the grips of madness.Alyssa has a close friend, Jeb, who is dating Taelor (I hate her already just by her name), the stereotypical beautiful, spoiled rich girl nemesis.
He tells her to go on a series of quests to fulfill her mission in order to save her mother.The creatures she encounters along the way are definitely based upon the original Alice books, albeit remarkably more twisted.
I had little love for the characters, and the fascinating twists came a little too late to grab a higher rating.I will say, the novel is not a complete let-down, especially for Alice in Wonderland fans.
Sure I've seen worse love interests, he's hardly even in my least favorite, but his character is simply not attractive in the least.
It took too much attention off of the plot, which is by far the best modern Alice story I've read.
I loved how we get a completely new "no, this is what actually happened" story.
So I had to re-read this book, and I'm actually glad that I did, because a lot of the stuff in here--especially a huge chunk of the last half--I'd completely forgotten. Oh, and I have no idea why I ever considered myself Team Morpheus in the first place. He's kind of an ass. Actually I'm neither on Morpheus nor Jeb's side. I don't exactly love either of them. But I do love this book even now, exactly two years after my first read. I can finally read Unhinged now that I know all the necessary details.
But the bit about Alyssa maybe being crazy sounded weird, and I'd also heard some negative things about Alice in Zombieland, so I was sort of wary of any YA take on this classic.Y'all, I'm here to tell you: don't be afraid to read this book!
I liked the heroine, I liked the love interests (yes, TWO!), I liked the pacing and the plot, and I liked the writing style.But probably my favorite part of the book was the worldbuilding.
I feel like it would be gorgeous.Also, this is sort of a small thing, but I loved that the clothes are described so thoroughly.
When I picked up SPLINTERED, glossed over the synopsis a few times, and took it in with a final hard look, I saw one word flash across my eyes – AWESOME.
SPLINTERED tries too hard to be cool, and loses itself in the process.I never connected to any of the characters, including our heroine Alyssa.
Likewise, the plot was muddled, confusing, and at times the imagery – remarkably well thought out, if a little too obnoxious in the descriptions – became lost in confusing schpiels about mooning and being angry with Jeb and Morpheus, the extremely jerky other love interest/man-moth hybrid thing.
Simply walk backward the rest of your life." pg 187, ebook.Howard nailed the classic characterizations, but Carroll's original creations were far superior to Alyssa, Jeb, and Morpheus, who were her main contributions to the story.Disregard my opinions on this book if you simply must read any and all fairy tale re-tellings because, at the very least, it is that.Just be aware what you're picking up- a young adult romance/coming of age- and if that's what you're in the mood for, you may really enjoy it.I find that my expectations shape my opinion of a book almost as much as the text itself.
A.G. Howard’s Splintered is tied with Tim Burton’s Alice in Wonderland as the best modernized take on Lewis Carroll’s classic that I’ve read, better than Frank Beddor’s  The Looking Glass Wars . That is a very low bar.Our heroine, who narrates her tale in first-person present-tense, is Alyssa Gardner, the great-great-great-great…granddaughter of Alice Liddell, the inspiration for Carroll’s book. Her heritage is a well-known fact in her hometown, as is the fact that each woman in the family line
Together, they venture into Wonderland.After facing a number of dangerous creatures – dark versions of the talking flowers from Through the Looking Glass and the Walrus from Tweedledum and Tweedledee’s poem in the same book – and making out despite Jeb having a girlfriend at home – they find their way to the blue-haired, moth-winged young man, Morpheus the Netherling, a sorcerer and a kingmaker.
Removing him would cut out half the silly make-out scenes, make Alyssa far more developed by forcing her to travel the strange world alone, and free up time for more world-building, an actual plot, and some character development for Morpheus so he doesn’t come across as nothing more than the pale little brother of Erik or Jareth.
I have no words to describe how terrible Splintered was.
Alice in Wonderland is a childhood favourite of mine, so I had pretty high expectations of Splintered.
The plot was overdone.
He helped ruin the book for me, among many other things.
It seems to drag on and on, and the version of the book that I read had a PURPLE FONT.
I hate fonts that are not black and normal looking.
It annoyed me the whole way as I struggled through the words.I am sorry to say can honestly say that this was one of the worst books I have read in 2016.
Ok, unpopular opinion time: I love most retellings, but would rather just read the original Alice in Wonderland than see it get ruined like this.
I did like some creative elements of this version of Wonderland!
But the story itself was weird, full of YA cliches and slut-shaming, and just didn't hold my attention.
The part that really killed the story for me was the characters...
The Jeb guy was super controlling, condescending, and possessive -- and what's up with him having a girlfriend but still having some awkward virginity talk with Alyssa?
And I really couldn't stand Alyssa.
Old friends are here: the talking flowers, Cheshire cat, the Caterpillar (I'll get to Morpheus a bit later) and I absolutely loved the concept of Alyssa being a descendant of the original Alice.The one thing that irked me were the love interests.
(It's not really a spoiler, we all knew there was going to be one) Just as Jeb is cast in the role of the douchebag steadfast best friend, Morpheus is the dark, intriguing stranger who shrouded in secrecy.The thing is, I've never been drawn to the dark, broody types.
Buy this book on: |  Amazon  |  Barnes and Noble  |  Audible  |  BookDepository (FREE WORLDWIDESHIPPING)  |3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system below). I'm so glad that I finally got a chance to read this book! I met the author about 2 years ago so it was about time that I got a chance to read her work. Let me just say, A.G. Howard is one of the coolest authors you'll ever meet! I highly recommend going to one of her signings if you ever get the chance to. My favorite part of this book
|3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system below).
I'm so glad that I finally got a chance to read this book!
I met the author about 2 years ago so it was about time that I got a chance to read her work.
My favorite part of this book would hands down be the character Morpheus.
MORPHEUS HANDS DOWN MADE THIS BOOK FOR ME.
Alyssa unfortunately did not stand out to me as a super unique protagonist, but Morpheus guys, MORPHEUS.
LIKE THE GUY IS SO CONFUSING, MESMERIZING, CONFLICTING, AND I NEED MORE ADJECTIVES.
I'm reading the rest of the series for Morpheus.
Splintered is based upon real life Alice Liddell's story as created by Lewis Carroll. Little Alice pictured here.  The females in her line all are inheriting madness. They here bugs and plants talking. Refuse to eat off of plates (teacups please). Until we come across Alyssa-she does not want to end up in the mental hospital and will venture down the rabbit's hole in order to stop it. This author did an amazing job on bringing a fairy tale to life. Creepy and so very easy pictured in your mind,
Splintered is based upon real life Alice Liddell's story as created by Lewis Carroll.
Little Alice pictured here.
The females in her line all are inheriting madness.
Until we come across Alyssa-she does not want to end up in the mental hospital and will venture down the rabbit's hole in order to stop it.
This author did an amazing job on bringing a fairy tale to life.
Creepy and so very easy pictured in your mind, Wonderland comes to glorious life in the book.Splintered vs the Disney version is more like this:
OH and Morpheus...yes I do want you.
The author describes in detail how everything looks through the eyes of Alyssa, the subject to a curse that runs in the veins of all the females descendant of Alice Liddell, the inspiration for Carroll's book.Everyone in her family has been tagged as crazy ever since the original Alice got out of the rabbit hole.
But she's determined to break this curse to save her mother Alison, so she goes down the rabbit hole again, and won't come back until she has accomplished her mission.For starters, this tagging everyone in her family as crazy annoyed the hell out of me.
When we meet him, Alyssa is mad because he and her dad have mutually decided that she's too innocent and unworldly to attend an exchange program in London, even though Jeb is supposed to attend school in the city, too.
If, in the end, your heroine ends up being treated like a helpless damsel in distress by her ONE TWU WUV (like Alyssa is and characters like Bella and Luce and Nora before her), then can we finally do away with the pretense that she's empowered and strong?
Reread 10.07.2014  “Broken glass severs more than skin. It will sever your identity.” Despite my one big and glaring problem Jeb with this book, I enjoyed it better the second time around. On my first read some things seemed a bit confusing, but now that I’ve finished the second installment as well and know so much more about the characters and their motivations, it was really interesting to pick up on all the clues and read between the lines.A.G. Howard managed to create an enticing world, twis
Too bad the heroine is probably going to end up with Jeb anyway.*MAJOR JEB RANT AHEAD*I would have given it 5 stars if not for Jeb, the fucking love interest, a controlling, obsessive and stupid disaster who almost ruined the whole thing and made me want to murder him more often than not.
He totally would snap at Alyssa too, in time.And don't even get me started on the sacrifice.«Oh, you idiot!” Morpheus shouts up at Jeb.
Just want to add that I feel like from now on this sacrifice is going to be used as a means to make Jeb and Alyssa end up together.
"It's the Wonderland crew after a heavy dose of radiation poisoning." Splintered is a book you just have to stick with. My opinion of the book has drastically changed as soon as I hit the 100 pages mark. It transformed from a dull and tragically angsty story, to a twisted and beautiful one. Alyssa Gardner is a great-great-great-grandaughter of Alice Liddel- the girl who's dreams inspired Lewis Carrol's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. Every female in her family that was born since Alice, has g
There were a few good things, but otherwise the before-wonderland part of the book just wasn't anything special.
Yes, you are tortured we get it.Alyssa is constantly controlled by her father and her best friend slash neighbour Jeb. Her father doesn't let her dye her hair because she reminds him of her mother.
I strongly disliked Jeb for the whole book, for various reasons.What bothered me the most was that, yes Alyssa did get upset, but all was forgotten as soon as he reminded her of how much he cared.
Except the book completely lost it's own plot and instead turned into a poorly done paranormal romance without any real focus.Instead of focusing on Wonderland, which you know is kind of interesting, Alyssa is absorbed by Jeb--the best friend she's secretly in love with.
Once they're in Wonderland he also accuses that a "perv lured you here via a magical website" showing his winning intellect once again.It was over-descriptive to the point of being purple prose, elaborating describing clothing hair and make-up, describing taste and scent in a way that didn't really make sense.
