https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025529.C_T_Studd_Cricketer_and_Pioneer
This was a good recommendation. We can learn a lot from C.T. Studd's life. My full review is herehttp://christianmissionaryuk.blogspot...I recommend this book for all Christians especially those interested in mission.
Es la biografía de un joven que dejó todo lo que pareciera ser deseable para cualquier joven y obedeció el llamado de Dios y el impulso de su corazón, metiéndose en las selvas de África y en los interiores de India y China para llevar el evangelio a los no alcanzados.
Termine el libro (cojeando) para no sentir esa sensación de haber comenzado pero no terminado el libro.De todas formas, aprendí más de la vida de C.T Studd y pude rescatar algunas características sobresalientes, que (en mi opinión) justifican la lectura del libro:1.
Una pasión mucho mayor por Dios que por todo lo que el mundo puede ofrecer 5.
What an incredible missionary life of sacrifice! He spent like his last 16 years of his life in the heart of Africa, separated from his devoted wife most of that time. I love his famous quote," If Jesus Christ is God and died for me, then no sacrifice can be too great for me to make."
A biography of C.T.Studd, one of the "Cambridge Seven", and his mission work in China, India, the U.S. and Africa.
This book is a bit slow in places - the author selected some very boring or incomprehensible journal entries for certain chapters.
Overall an interesting read.C.T.Studd played cricket for England, after which he felt called to mission work with Hudson Taylor.
His father had been a bit of a gambler, and you can certainly see the gambler personality coming out in C.T.Studd as you read his biography.
He didn't bet on sporting events, but he was a reckless gambler in nearly every endeavor of his life (health, finances, family etc..).
One of my favorite biographies of a man who committed himself to serve God no matter what the cost!
I just happened to be listening to Dan Carlin's hardcore history on WWI and A LOT of the soldiers then thought the orders to charge right after the people before them got mowed down because they don't have a way to deal with barbed wire pretty insane.
Some of the theological aspects of the book are bit troubling.
C.T. Studd was big on asking people to receive the Holy Spirit after they believed, as a separate, albeit immediate event.
Otherwise such statement could be read as whatever we claim, whether it be the will of God or not, will happen if we just say stating it, in other words, Word of Faith.
As one of the more notable pioneer missionaries of the nineteenth century, it's odd that I've never gotten around to reading C.T. Studd's story, but this is partly due to a bias I felt against him as a man who had left his wife and children to pursue missions.
As I read it, it was difficult not to admire Studd's dedication and zeal for people who needed to hear about Jesus.
His love for the people he worked among was obvious, and his wife, in fact (who was unable to go to the Congo for health reasons), zealously led the work at the home base in England.
Bordering on hagiography, Grubb’s description of the intense life of Christian faith displayed by his father-in-law, CT Studd, is nonetheless memorable.
What are we to make of CT Studd and his relentless push forward as missionary pioneer?
What of his departure from his wife to finish long years of his life away from his marriage?
What the reader cannot doubt is that Studd became wholly absorbed in the missionary venture, careless of his own physical wants and needs.
From his ( and his wife’s) tireless leadership, a large Christian missionary outreach was born.
While this book is labled a biography, it is also a bit of an autobiography since Grubb quotes at great length from Studd’s own journals.
What we get form this book is the portrait of a man who had an unbridled passion for Jesus.
In that song, McGuire describes him as “a humble man, serv(ing) the Lord both night and day.
With all his life, he lived to honor Him, and at His fee he learned to pray.” That is indeed the man in this book.
Wow. So many great things about this book. What a man! What a life! What a mighty God he served!! Made me think of 2 Chron 16:9.
When I read a biography I really like to have primary sources in it and not just the biographer's interpretation of the person's life.
After reading this book it's clear to me that Studd was a person of great passion and a disciple of Christ.
Studd had an amazing impact wherever he went and his work was indeed blessed by God. However, this book sometimes doesn't read quite right.
The use of primary sources is amazing and the passion Grubb has for his subject is read throughout.
It is a pseudo-autobiography in that it is a collection of letters and other writings by CT Studd collected with his son-in-law providing commentary on what was happening.
I did not like this at first but as I got going I realized this was a perfect biography, it was what was actually said and done by Studd not some white washed retelling or a fan writing about how great someone was.
This man's life was one of complete devotion to Christ, after all what else would you expect from someone whose name is Studd!
Another biography where the subject is much more interesting than the book written about him. The book wavers back and forth between devotional reading and information, and has a hard time finding the right balance. That said, there are flashes of compelling writing here. C. T. Studd's life was a truly adventurous one, but the book drags at points. I would have enjoyed more about the books and pamphlets that he wrote, which are still impactful today. So not my favorite book, but I'd be interested to read another one on the same subject.
Missionary biography telling the inspiring story of C. T. Studd and the founding of the WEC mission agency. C. T. Studd's all-consuming personal commitment to Jesus and his willingness to sacrifice everything for the cause of the gospel are a rebuke to my own comfortable lifestyle. (For cricket fans, the first few chapters about early English cricket are great, particularly the first ever Ashes test, which C. T. Studd played in.)
An interesting story for sure, moderately well written. I can't agree with C. T. Studd's philosophy of Christian life, though. He was much too mystical in his view of God's will and God's workings. In addition, there's no excuse for the fact that he spent the last years of his life in Africa separated from his wife because of her bad health. A Christian man's duty is to provide for his wife (1 Timothy 5:8) and dwell with her (1 Peter 3:7).
A fascinating insight into a truly remarkable man. The prose can be stilted at times, because it's mostly constructed from letters written by CT Studd, but this doesn't actually affect the flow of the story at all. The original imprint of this book is from 1933, and even with a postscript from 1982 it doesn't really cover the legacy that Studd left behind. Have a poke around Wikipedia once you've finished to flesh out some of the additional details.
Esto es uno de los personajes cristianos que más me ha impactado con su manera de vivir obedeciendo a Dios, y demostrando que ese obedecer - aunque a veces un tanto amargo o en contra de la propia voluntad/deseo - lleva a aquella vida llena de aventuras apasionantes con un Dios apasionado! Que Dios nos de agallas para vivir en fe como lo hizo este hombre con toda su familia.
Enjoyed this Moody publication written by C.T. Studd's son-in-law Norman P. Grubb. The way the Lord got a hold of him as a young man and moved Studd to a life a service for the Lord. There are some older anachronisms and ideas associated with this book but the heart of service is evident to all.
Another book by Norman Grubb (who happens to be C.T. Studd's son-in-law) and a terrific story of a strong missionary pioneer. My father-in-law kept recommending that I read it and, when I finally picked it up, was sorry I hadn't done so when he first mentioned it. A fascinating story full of faith, adventure, and godliness. (I confess that I'm glad I wasn't his wife though :)
It was a drag to get through, but I found the information interesting.
A movie should be made about this man's life. Talk about an adventure! A great example of sacrificing everything to do what God is calling you to do with your life.
great missionary biography
This book helped transform my life.
A stirring biography of a courageous and faith-filled missionary to three of the neediest places in the world: China, India, and Africa.
