https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7201.As_the_Crow_Flies
Many authors have made their books long-- but end up just filling the pages with fluff....not so for archer--I relished each page and was sort of disappointed when I reached the end.The character's individual parts are stories within themselves but Archer weaves them into the overall story like the master story teller he is.
You will love some and really hate others as Archer brings them to life for you.This is really the life story of a man named Charlie Trumper born into poverty with great dreams and the disposition to fulfil them.
This book was a great read and I am a better person for reading it and sharing Charlie's pursuit of his dreams and life....
I'm a sucker for Jeffrey Archer, 20th Century London and epic novels, so it's no surprise that I've read "As the Crow Flies" a dozen times. Following the life of Charlie Trumper beginning at the turn of the century, the book takes readers on a journey through both world wars, the coronation of Queen Elizabeth and the swinging 60's. While the story is about Charlie's success in retail, the core of the story revolves around his wife, his son and his fierce rivalry with the Trentham family. This is a fun read with plenty of drama woven through the book.
400-500 pages is a full book in my world.As far as I did get - the story begins around the latter years of WWI, and focused around a set of characters in the early years of building a financial empire starting with one store at a time - grocery is the first one.
Usually I'd be all over a big fat saga like this, and usually I'd love all the details of the empire building, but this one fell flat for me.
The biggest problem was the never-ending flip flop back to the same events, only to be recounted to the reader in another first person narrative from another character.
This is a fairly good 200 page novel, hiding inside 600 pages.
I continued on, and the story improved somewhat.
I never felt anything for any of the characters.
They all seemed one dimensional.I did like the way that the story switched perspective from one character to another, filling in the blanks of the story as it did so.
That made for more interesting transitions, but became predictable as the story progressed.On the technical side...
I read the novel on my Kindle.
وتجربتي الأولى معه كانت هذه الرواية الرائعة ، في الحقيقة عندما نظرت إليها وإلى عدد الصفحات أخذت نفسًا طويلًا وأخبرت عقلي أننا بصدد قراءة أطول رواية ، لذلك لابد أن أتحلى بالصبر ، وأن أستمتع بتفاصيل ما يروى ..
كانت أكثر الشخصيات التي أحببتها هي " دافني " ، التي كانت نعم الصديقة لزوجين " تشارلي ، و بيكي " ،و أكثر المواقف التي أصبتني بالمفاجأة والحزن هو إنتحار " دانيال " الذي كان ضيحة والده " جاي " ..أود أن أقول أن هذه الرواية تحتاج إلى أن يكون القارئ صافي الذهن ، لديه وقت كافي ، ربما يمتد لفترة طويلة ، كيلا يمّل من إعادة تكرار الكثير من المعلومات مع كل شخصية ..
Charlie Trumper begins life assisting his grandfather on his fruit and vegetable barrow in the East End. As he grows up, he is faced with his grandfather's death, World War I, a dashing, handsome villain called Guy Trentham, and eventually a chain of events that flows from his brief unpleasant connection with Trentham at the Battle of the Marne.
Charlie returns to London after the war, reconnects with Becky, his childhood friend and eventual partner, and begins to make his way in the world, eventually building up a retail empire in Chelsea, but old family secrets keep cropping up and putting roadblocks in his path.
It was one book I couldn't put down but did so reluctantly. I would give it five stars. The characters seemed so real I felt they were people I knew.
الكاتب بأسلوبه السهل السلس يجذبك لكي تكمل القراءة حتى النهاية ..الرواية تحكي قصة رجل يدعى ( تشارلي ترامبر ) من طفولته و على مدى 70 سنة من حياته .. وكيف كان صراع أسرتين طويل الأمد الرواية إجتماعية من الطراز الأول , حلوة إذا كنت فاضي جدا في سفرة إستجمام مثلا أو قبل النوم لأسلوبها السهل أعيب على الرواية تفصيلها في الكثير من النواحي حتى الملل بعض المرات .. و يميزها حبكتها الطويلة الرواية تقع في حوالي 960 صفحة من ورق نوع اليد
تماماً كما تقول عنه النيويورك تايمز في عبارة الغلاف : جيفري آرتشر هو عبقري الروايات المسلية .. ذلك النوع من الروايات الذي يشعك بأن حياتك في داخل الرواية بينما يومياتك العادية في صحوك هي الهامش .. رواية طويلة نوعاً ما ولكنها ملحمة انسانية ثرية جداً بالشخصيات التي حتماً .. ستجد نفسك في احدها
رواية عندما يطير الغراب للكاتبجيفري آرتشر.أعتبر نفسي محظوظا عندما اخترتهابشكل عشوائي وأنا في المكتبةلانني لم أقرأ للمؤلف من السابقمع أنها طويلة...الا أنها تأسرك بحيثلاتسطيع تركها... تستحق القراءة.وأنصح بقرآتها لمن كان مترددا.
I was shocked/blindsided by the information about 3/4 way through the book that left a heavy weight on my shoulders for the rest of the way through my read.Most people probably won't have that effect on them from it, but I invested so much feelings into a couple of the characters that it was only obvious that at some point I would feel changed.I am highly recommending this book for the soul fact that it took me away to another life, another time which I feel deeply in love with.
It's funny how our tastes change, I think that many years ago I would have loved this book, but now 
A great, intrically woven family saga set in Britain. It begins with a man who is a vegetable peddler who has a dream to do and be more and it's the story of his life and the life of his family. I couldn't put it down once I started reading it.
هو الراجل ده إزاي كده ؟"Sometimes you read a book so special that you want to carry it around with you for months after you've finished just to stay near it."~ Markus Zusak.
He knows that even if he repeats himself, as long as there are enough new twists to the plot of any of his book, he'll be forgiven, and his works, enjoyed.
I was thoroughly entertained reading this book which has a few lulls, but which forced me to have stakes in the story at a time when I felt temporarily indifferent.
I no longer think Kane And Abel is this writer's best book.
That praise went to Be Careful What You Wish For...now...I'm no longer sure.
It's pure entertainment, of the type that can only be offered by books and their makers.
كان يصعب علي معرفة ما إذا كنت قد أحببت هذه الرواية أم لالا أنكر ان أحداثها كانت مثيرة ومسليةوهي تحكي
I'm pretty dissapointed with this book...can't believe I'm on page 500 and I just can't continue..is getting more and more boring, there are too many characters...and it's really annoying, because I loved the beginning, especially when the protagonist enlisted in the english army to fight against the Germans in the WW1!!!
What I hate the most is the fact that the narrator repeats the same things over and over..why?!!
I recommend this book to those who are more interested in ..I don't know..marketing?!
because I think this book is concentrated on the Charlie's business, so I don't really like these concepts.If this book were more concentrated on the war, I would like it more...such a pity!
I'd rate it with 4 stars, but as it took me back to some British cities, their lifestyle and how they selll like in Sundays Markets, I definitely rates it with 5 stars.
I've enjoyed most parts of it and read it with a smile drawn on my face especially when they talk in cockney or when i hear the words in Yorkshire accent.However, i missed a great opportunity to read it along with a person who has a better background in history, world wars, and interest in documentary films.
What even makes him perfect for this novel in particular is his finance knowledge and experience.
يالله ابداع الكاتب لم يتوقف عن احداث القصه كاملة بل حتى الرمق الاخير عندما وجدو صاحب اكبر شركات يعود لأصله عند التقاعد ليبيع الخضار بعربته القديمة وثيابه الرثه فيكون يلطان العادة غلب سلطان التعود فرغم كبر سنه عاد ليستيقظ في الرابعه فجرا ويخرج ليبيع بلسانه الجميل على نساء الحي الخضار الطازجة.
بكيت عند النهاية فقد عشت دهرا مع هذه الرواية ولأول مرة بحياتي اشعر بأنني أكبر مع شخصيات الكتاب حتى أصل معهم لعمر الستين والسبعين.
جعلني ارتشر أخاف من تقدم الزمن بي حتى وإن كان المستقبل جميلا.
رواية اجتماعية اقتصادية سياسية رومانسية ودراميه وكل ماترغب أن تجده في كتاب واحد فعندما يطير الغراب بين يديك
Great story, characters and style of story telling. However, the execution was appalling! So many loose ends! In a minute he changed Charlie's character from a strong family figure to someone who only cares about his company! It doesn't deal with the emotional aspect at all. And the part where Charlie tries to get from from Australia to London just goes on and on! It was almost like Archer got bored with his book and just decided to finish it quickly. Extremely disappointing!
This is a fascinating book about choices/consequences. It's also very interesting from a business perspective. Note: mild language, one questionable scene with a barmaid (not critical to story)
Such an overly long, convoluted story with a tiny payoff. There were no characters that held my interest. Everything was plot-driven. I like novels with a rich background so that you can lose yourself in the time and place. This fat novel was thin in substance.
Really entertaining soap opera that I always wanted to pick up. Also, loved the setting, England from 1914 or so until 1970.
This book is an intense thrill-ride of mystery, friendship and the grit and grime of street life, following realistic characters coping with the hardships of the city and the loss of family.
الرواية امتعتني للغاية والقصة كانت شيقة و مسلية انها واحدة من افضل الروايات التي قرأتها
Jeffrey Archer is a master raconteur, pure and simple, and he has turned that talent to tell the story of Charlie Trumper in "As The Crow Flies".Charlie grew up in the East End of London working with his Grandpa, who was a trader on the Whitechapel Road market selling fruit and veg from his barrow.
While, I must admit, at one point I was thinking that this book was turning into a poor man's "Kane and Abel" Archer turned a corner to take the story in a completely different direction which made me wonder why I doubted his storytelling prowess in the first place.While not his best book "As The Crow Flies" is far from his worst and gets 3.5 Whitechapel Road fruit and veg barrows out of five.
I picked up this book expecting to get a flavor of first and second world war history amidst some Archerian fiction (somewhat similar to the Ken Follet century trilogy); however I wasn't much impressed with the history aspect of this book as much as it still kept me engrossed in the fiction. That being said I would consider this book to be a soap opera entertainer of fiction; I wouldn't consider it to be the best in terms of historical fiction; I would still consider it to be an entertaining beach read.
Really, does anyone tell a story any better than Jeffrey Archer? I simply revel in his books, and this one is no exception. I may need to reread some of the old ones (not that this is new, just newly discovered).
I wasn't sure about reading a Jeffery Archer book, but what a page turner it turned out to be. Wanted to find out about Charlie the main character and how his empire grows despite all of the ips and downs. I loved this book, wanting to read more of Jefftey Archer
Võiks arvata, et tegemist on religiosse teosega, kuid tegelikult peidab ta endas ajaloolist romaani, mille sündmused kulgevad ajavahemikul 1900-1970.
Aastate jooksul saab mehest edukas ärimees, ta loob pere ning käib läbi kahest maailmasõjast.
Charlie lugu on täis mitmeid huvitavaid ja ootamatuid pöördeid ning lugedes sain ka aru, et kaanepilt polegi nii mööda valitud, kui esmapilgul arvasin.Lugesin "Linnulennult" esimest korda aastaid tagasi, arvatavasti vahetult peale ilmumist ja tookord meeldis see mulle väga.
Erinevate jutustajatega ning muuhulgas mehe vaatenurgast kirjutatud raamatuid polnud mulle tookord ette juhtunud.
Nüüd üle lugedes seda uudsust enam polnud, kuid aja jooksul olin sündmustiku unustada jõudnud, nii et oli jällegi huvitav.
