https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/324750.High_Output_Management
I could not have been more wrong.High Output Management is one of the worst books I’ve ever read.
High Output Management, lauded by Brian Chesky, Mark Zuckerburg, and Ben Horowitz, is one of the worst books I have ever read.
Horowitz seems to equate Grove and High Output Management to Jesus and the Bible.
Not related to anything any of the people who probably read this book work on.
Grove obviously isn’t the first to think this way about managing others.
But when that day comes, I will not be using anything I learned from High Output Management.
This is definitely one of the BEST Business Books one must read.
And it's the best "Management to Engineers" book I can think of.This book is listed on Quora as the best people management book one can read.
It has been recommended by so many top VCs there.Andrew Grove is the legendary CEO of Intel.
This book is one of the best and concise guides on how to be an excellent manager (from managing a small team, all the way to a whole company).His language is filled with engineering examples.
And has an amazing clarity of thought.I highly recommend it.
And while I can't comment on his other books (e.g., Only the Paranoid Survive), this book doesn't give that impression.Grove's management philosophy is well developed, I think more useful than Rudy Giuliani's (Leadership), and still valid thirty years after the book was originally published.
Additionally, Grove gives useful advice to people who aren't managers.Shortly before reading this book, I read T.J. Rodgers' No Excuses Management.
While I think Rodgers' book is useful, I have to recommend this one over it.
Настольная книга многих известных IT-предпринимателей и CEO современности. Гроув описывает свое видение подходов к эффективному менеджменту. Причём под менеджментом он понимает не только тех, кто непосредственно руководит другими, но и тех, кто влияет на работу других посредством своих знаний и экспертизы.Создается впечатление, что изначально книга писалась, как настольная книга для менеджеров Интел.Написана в 1983 году, но 90% написанного актуально до сих пор и будет ещё долго актуально. Причём не только в IT.
It is a bestseller that survives through time, although it was first published in 1983 and since then management has changed a lot and has already incorporated the ideas the book spreads.
But it is invaluable because Andrew Grove tells the reader his lessons learned as a effective manager at Intel.
I would read it again and again, no doubt about that.
Highly recommended if you want to take a glimpse on the duties of a manager at a global company like Intel.
(his latter book Only the paranoid survive, which I read some time ago, is also highly recommended).
Если коротко, то это лучшая книга по менеджменту из всех, которые я читал.
Также с некоторым облегчением прочитал «закон Гроува» про оргструктуру (сам автор его так шутя называет) - любая достаточно большая и эффективная организация в какой-то момент превращается в гибридную.
Короче говоря, ещё раз - книга must к прочтению.
Так что если вдруг кто знает, как получить права на нее у издательства «Филин», которое уже закрылось, и/или готов поучаствовать в бумажном тираже - you’re welcome
This is the best book I've read on leadership, building organizations and spending your time on the most important tasks for your team.
Most of it felt more appropriate for a manufacturing company than today's world, but the fundamentals still resonated.
The foundational ideas about running a business, building a team, managing a team, etc transcend both time and industries.
You'll rarely see people as successful as him be so humble and frank about the challenges they face.The book is certainly not a page turner, but even if you can't stomach all of it I can heartily recommend reading at least Part II (Management is a Team Game) and Part IV (The Players).
Once I actually read some abbreviated version of the book, but without all the context the ideas simply didn't stick with me.
This book took a while to read, not because it wasn't good, but because it was almost too good. It is chock full of stuff to think about as a manager. It read really densely. I'd read a chapter or two, think about it, try some stuff out, then pick up again and read another few chapters. This definitely has the feel of a book I'll return to in another few years and learn some new stuff and gather new insights.
It is hard to rate this book - it was published 35 years ago so many tips probably already spread out via newer books, articles, podcasts and so on. Even I was (and I am) supervised accordingly to those rules so they weren't nothing new for me. Grove's tips help approach complex problems with simple steps which once used systematically will optimize how a company works and its employees will feel understood. On the hand those rules sound simple, on the other, I know how easily they can be forgotten.
Management bible!
He can leverage the output by: doing things faster, doing them better- Training is a high-leverage activity, and responsibility of the manager - it must happen in-house- Goals should always be paired - into quantity and quality goals - both keep a check on each other- Hiring is a very tough but necessary job and you can never be sure about it- Information gathering is the basis of a manager’s tasks - which, like a housewife’s are never done- Matrix management (dual-reporting) is a painful reality of life.
You should review performance, and not potential (potential is a tool for new hires)- TLM (Task Relevant Maturity) of a sub-ordinate determines how much a manager should interfere in his/her work.
Starting with the surprisingly clear definition of a manager’s output (“output of the organizational units under her or his supervision or influence”) to the more tactical ideas how to organize a company’s departments or what’s a good performance evaluation.“High Output Management” doesn't treat people like snowflakes, but it’s still mostly about people.
When talking about large organizations, many management ideologies abstract the humans to resources.
Not a deal-breaker, but don’t get too excited about those practices that sounds perfect on paper, but history has shown it’s not all roses.In summary, if you can relate to the term “high output”, or at least if you don’t wince when you hear it, give this little book a try.
great book dedicated to the management. the author covers large variety of things from the planning and managing the time to hiring and training employees. There a lot of ready to use samples from real life cases (with numbers) and to sample performance reviews. the author describes not just things worked for him and but what kind of things are not working.
Одна из лучших книг по управлению, буду держать под рукой. Удивило,что написано несколько 10ков лет назад, а актуальность на сегодняшний день максимальная! Не зря многие включают эту книгу, как обязательную к прочтению в своих компаниях! Я тоже добавил!
I read it because of its reputation. Immediately began reading it again upon finishing it because it is THAT good. So much wisdom and practical advice, delivered with straight shooting engineer style. stop reading this and go read the book!
5/5 That is probably the best book I've read on management. It's short and to the point. It's written in 1990, but it holds amazingly well. This stresses the quality of content even further.A highly recommended read.
Short, powerful work on the art of classic command-and-control management. Put it alongside Jack Welch's "Winning" and Drucker's "Management" on your bookshelf.
My Review - While the metaphors and the organizational structure of Intel described in the book are dated, the underlying wisdom imparted are still quite relevant. I found the core ideas in the book valuable - what is the output of manager? How do you spend your time? how do you plan your work? how do teams work? How do you motivate the people on your team? My Book Notes The book in three sentencesYour output is the sum of your team’s output and the output of any neighboring groups you can influ
Pay attention to the people on your team, their motivations, training and task maturity as this is one of most high leverage things you can do.My thoughts/observations interspersed with some interesting highlights:“The output of a manager is the output of the organizational units under his or her supervision or influence.”“High managerial productivity, I argue, depends largely on choosing to perform tasks that possess high leverage.”“The art of management lies in the capacity to select from the many activities of seemingly comparable significance the one or two or three that provide leverage well beyond the others and concentrate on them.”“From my experience a large portion of managerial work can be forecasted.
I wish I had have taken notes while I was reading this book. It took me a long time to read but the messages it delivered have stuck with me. Some of the messages it delivers flies in the face of what we are often taught: however, the way it is explained certainly makes sense and motivates me to try a different approach in how I manage my people.
This book is the grandfather of management books. From middle managers to C-level folks, this book provides very practical advice on everything needed to be a good manager. Even though its written 30+ years ago, 99% of the content is timeless. Highly recommended as the first management book anyone should read.
Exceptionally clear and easy to read. One I will return to again.
Bible for tech founders, who want to manufacture products and build successful companies.
I've read this book the first time about ten years ago and I just read it the second time now. Andrew Grove can distill his management learning and insights, coming from a manufacturing background, into very concise and easy to follow management principles and best practices. Just reading this book is what Andrew Grove would consider a "high-leverage" practice. Highly recommended.
Great book. While written a while ago, the principles of management are relevant. I'd recommend for anyone who is growing into or wants to grow into a broader management role. Grove was an impressive person who saw the value in teaching. The wisdom/page ratio in this book is higher than most.
Grove suggests you look at the output indicator(s) from the group you manage and hold those as the indicators of your own success (I agree) but in the absence of a counterfactual to contrast against it is challenging to put a measuring stick against your own performance.
I think it's dangerous to answer "am I a good manager" with statements about likability and appreciativeness of reports that don't necessarily correlate to amplification of business outcomes.- Grove says that you necessarily need to promote based on pure output and I don't think that is controversial.
This book represents a compilation of managerial activities that lead to the increase of the team's output. When applied, it could bring the highest achievement level for the company. Therefore, it works very well when it is IMPLEMENTED by the managers. Otherwise, it is just theory.
One of the best management books despite being written in 1995.
Making things work on a scale where team size goes far beyond 50 or 100 members is very different from ten members of SWAT-type team building MVPs. On the other hand, Andrew draws a great picture where startup-like teams could operate very efficiently inside larger corporations.The first third of the book might be quite a tough read to break thru, but it worth it.
Andrew builds a framework of core concepts that make an explanation of complicated ideas in the second part of the book easier.Reading it after the Horowitz' "The Hard Thing About Hard Things" was a part of a greater experience, since it gives some insights into how practical Andrew's ideas were.
