https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8558.Enquiry
They both know that they did nothing wrong and so assume that they will simply have to answer a few questions about the race and be on their way.Understandably, then, the two men are shocked when the commissioners exhibit evidence against them that Hughes and Cranfield claim has been clearly fabricated, indicating that the two men were guilty of serious offenses during the race in question.
Hughes's mission brings him up against some particularly vicious people, and before long, his safety and his very life are at grave risk.This is a fairly entertaining novel and a pleasant way to while away a flight from Phoenix to Chicago, or probably anywhere else for that matter.
and losing", she said. "That's what it's all about.""Racing?""Life.""Someone has it in for Cranfield, too. Both of us, it was. The Steward's couldn't possibly have warned off one of us without the other. We were knitted together so neatly.""It makes me livid,"  Tony said violently. "It's wicked."I nodded. "There was something else, too, about that Enquiry. Some undercurrent, running strong. At least, it was strong at the beginning. Something between Lord Gowery and Lord Ferth. And then Andy Tri
At least, that's how it seemed at one point....""Stewards are men," Tony said with bubble-bursting matter-of-factness.
The Welfare State didn't pay unemployment benefits to the self-employed, as all jockeys remembered every snow-bound winter." I'm going to find out," I said abruptly."Find out what?""Who framed us."*********Audiobook Review*Enquiry by Dick Francis bolts out of the gate at a high rate of speed and never slowes down!
I did have to slow the speed down on the settings which is something I've never had to do before as the speed of his narration was a bit too fast.
You can't go wrong with a Dick Francis mystery!!
It's nice to be among a cool bunch of people that all like Dick Francis and now Felix as much as I do.
I've been a fan now for about 35-40 years, and when I want a fairly quick pick-me-up, this is a really good place to go.
My library had two of his books when I went last, and I lapped them up like a dog.
Nice to get a Francis fix when I want one.When Kelly Hughes rides the favourite into second place, he gets penalized for his trouble.
. .there are many twists and turns throughout the book, and some of the characters who are good and bad.
For one, this is focused on the horse racing industry.
Many of Francis’ books have had horse racing as a side topic, mixing it with details on other topics like glass blowing or acting.
That was not fun to go through, but once you finished that part, the story took off.
You figure out who are the good guys and the bad guys pretty quickly here, so the fun is seeing how the good guys catch the bad ones.
I listened on audio and as usual for a Francis book I enjoyed the narration.
I have absolutely no interest in horse racing, but Francis makes the sport and the personalities involved in it clear and vivid. This book is about a gentleman jockey clearing his name and getting the girl. I could see Cary Grant in the role of Kelly Hughes and Grace Kelly as his employer's daughter, Roberta Cranfield.
Fabulous.
Trainer Dexter Cranfield and steeplechase jockey Kelly Hughes are summarily disqualified after an obviously rigged racing enquiry.
Cranfield falls to pieces, but Hughes is made of tougher stuff and takes it upon himself to get back their licenses before the fast approaching Gold Cup. As with all Francis’ heroes, Kelly Hughes is not a run of the mill jockey.
Brains, sheer guts, imperviousness to threats, violence and severe injury, softened by a quick intelligence, a kind heart and impeccable taste produce a true Francis protagonist.
The solution to the mystery is difficult to swallow, and leaves one wishing for another twist in the tale in true Dick Francis style.
Enquiry wasn't Mr. Francis' best work. It was certainly readable (I finished it, and I have no qualms about dropping books that aren't worth my time) but it lacked the snap-and-crackle and depth of most of his other works. Upon finishing I thought it might have been his first novel, because it felt like he may have just not gotten the trick of a rich plot yet, but I later learned it was his 8th. I'm glad that I've already read most of his others and therefore know Enquiry is an exception, not the rule.
ENQUIRY - ExFrancis, Dick - 8th bookKelly Hughes is a jockey, labelled a cheat by a Steward's enquiry. To clear his name he investigates all those who gave evidence, including the Chief Steward who was being blackmailed. Kelly, helped by Roberta, his employer's daughter, finds out who the real villain is and saves the stables.Loved this one. Francis has a way of making you feel the emotions of the characters. I also learned about carbon monoxide poisoning from this book.

Standard Dick Francis thriller - meaning good writing, likable characters, a little love interest, a little whiff of High Society, the usual adversary trying to use violence as a means to an end and the hero stoically enduring and digging his heels in obstinately and using brains rather than brawn to clear his name.The plot is a little less spectacular than other Francis books, dealing with the aftermath of a jockey suspension enquiry and his efforts to revert the decision.
Speaking of rides, I would have liked more time in the saddle for the main character, but that's OK: thre'll be another Dick Francis story in my hands soon ...
This is an older Dick Franics novel for 1969 but the story is so well written that is lost nothing over the years. Kelly Hughes is a jockey and Dexter Carrington a trainer are warned off after a race where Kelly rode the favored horse but did not win. They both lose their racing licenses and can't race again. Both swear they are innocent and Kelly begins to investigate who set them up. I love Dick Francis novels and this one did not disappoint!I listened to this story again on CD and still feel the same. 14 Nov 2016
An enquiry into an enquiry by the jockey falsely accused of throwing a race and the trainer for betting on the winner of the race. While I wasn't convinced by the way it turned out, I was, as always, charmed by the ever-modest main character who nevertheless outsmarts them all and solves the puzzling reasons why anyone would go to such lengths to frame them. A fine book to re-read in time for the Kentucky Derby 🐎
I really enjoyed this novel and raced through it very quickly. I'm obviously getting familiar with Dick Francis' work because I guessed who the villain was (and the motive) within a sentence of him being mentioned, although I did start to second-guess myself toward the end of the book. A fast-paced thriller which may not be Francis' best but very enjoyable nevertheless.
All Dick Francis's novels fall into a basic pattern - stoical, likable 1st person narrator, bit of romance, some connection to horse racing, torture scene, resolution. The delight comes from how he makes each one a bit different (is the narrator a jockey? and earl, a wine merchant?). The set up for this book is the unique feature. As always, satisfying.
Bit of a slow start, but once it got moving it was enjoyable. If you're looking for a light and entertaining read, you can never go past Dick Francis.
I've read most of Francis's books over the years, and they are always winners.
In this case Kelly (and the related trainer) are warned off on the very first page.
Francis creates heroes who are strong but quiet, intelligent but not showy, with a lot of grit and cleverness.
Kelly is a successful jockey with style and good taste (which surprises people when they see his apartment) and a strong intelligence (despite his poor upbringing--he was the first in his family to go to college, much to their chagrin).
I'm rarely disappointed with a Francis book.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
I would recommend Dick Francis’ novel Enquiry to everyone. In the novel Enquiry a jockey named Kelly Hughes has had his racing licensed suspended and suspects it is because of foul play. On the day that he was racing he didn’t win, and that was it but instead of the owner taking it as a simple occurrence it is instead brought to a review board and with them using a pile of evidence stacked against Hughes, his license is taken away. Some main themes in this novel are proving honesty, friendship,
On the day that he was racing he didn’t win, and that was it but instead of the owner taking it as a simple occurrence it is instead brought to a review board and with them using a pile of evidence stacked against Hughes, his license is taken away.
The main character Hughes has to find a way to survive and try to continue living while the one thing that he loves to do is taken away from him.
I would recommend this novel to everyone because it is very well written and I haven’t yet found a book by this author that I didn’t enjoy.
Francis can sometimes fall into the habit of resolving his stories with the rather lazy trope of "a crazy psychotic madman did it!" It's much more compelling when the perpetrator is a largely normal neighbor, driven by commonplace motives.
As a reader, I prefer stories that remind me that I am not so different from these villains .
that the distance between us is not as far as I might like to think.
I struggle with jealousy.
I struggle with anger, or guilt, or fear.
We all of us are not as far removed from villainy as we like to think.
Dick Francis wrote over 40 novels, and Enquiry is an early one--it was his eighth published work of fiction (his first book was an autobiography chronicling his career as a steeplechase jockey).
Enquiry of course is about horse racing, about which I know almost nothing (about all I do know, I've learned from reading Dick Francis novels), and that's another charm of his works: the view of the English steeplechase world that can only come from an insider.
My favorite all-time Dick Francis novel is still Nerve (which, by the way, was his second published novel), but Enquiry was entertaining and worth investing a couple of hours of my time.
Quick, Beach read.
Not his best or worst.
Ending was pretty darn decent.
Woke up in middle of night fighting hate in my heart for our neighbors in 1997-2000, the Malevolent Malones.
Actually they weren't malevolent, just snobbish greedy selfish assholes who thought they were better than everyone else.
Especially that Leslie.
Ugh. So I'm trying to do the Loving Kindness Meditation on the Malones and failing miserably, then I turned on the light and read Enquiry for 2 hours.
Problem solved.
There were enough greedy snobbish assholes in the novel to keep me entertained and allow me to forgive Leslie.
Jockey Kelly Hughes and trainer Dexter Cranfield had been barred from racing--a devastating event for them both. The charge t the secret enquiry? Throwing a race for personal profit. It was a vicious frame-up and, worse, they had nowhere to turn to clear their names. Still Hughes refused to take the phony verdict lying down--even though his personal enquiry might have him lying down permanently...I love Dick Francis' works. Set among the racing world in England, his action moves fast, and I like his character development as well as his mysteries!
I read this book solely at the recommendation of a friend. Despite knowing nothing about horse racing, I really enjoyed this book. It's very clear that Francis has done the research on the racing world. The writing is nicely done, and I enjoyed getting to know Kelly Hughes. I think people who enjoy the Hamish Macbeth series by MC Beaton will appreciate this. I've discovered I like British and Scottish fiction better than modern American fiction. I think the mystery was nicely plotted, and the plot was well-paced. I would definitely read more of this series.
Jockey Kelly Hughes had his license suspended for repeatedly losing races on purpose. An official enquiry was conducted and he was notified of the decision. Trouble was that all of the so-called evidence presented at the enquiry was false. Kelly sets out to get his license restored and uncover who framed him. A good, typical Dick Francis mystery. Sometimes I can get a sense of where it is going and who will be behind the evil. This one I couldn't at all and was surprised at the outcome.
Library audibleKelly Hughes is a jockey, labelled a cheat by a Steward's enquiry and included was the stable owner of the horses Kelly rode for. To clear his name he investigates all those who gave evidence, including the Chief Steward who was being blackmailed. Kelly, helped by Roberta, his employer's daughter, finds out who the real villain is and saves the stables.Rival stable trainer and wife are upset with a new arrangement of horses moving
Not one of his best books, but still a satisfactory read. I have read a number of Dick Francis books and never tire of them. The main character always sounds the same, but that's okay. I would have rated it higher, except that the guilty person admitted all, in the end told why he had done it. When this happens I always find that corny. Surely the guilty person would deny his guilt always. I did guess the reason why the main character was set up early in the book.
I needed some Dick Francis. Laurel Thatcher Ulrich is too heavy (literally and mentally?) for the train.***There seemed to be even less action/intruige than a usual DF mystery. A full half of the book passed before the hero was actually threatened by anyone.Also, the social commentary on S&M (and confusion with physical abuse) was a little strange/unexpected. Oh, the 60s. And a lot of parts of the country now, I guess.
Finalist 1969 Gold Dagger Award.Racing related thrillers - After being charged at a secret enquiry with throwing a race for profit, jockey Kelly Hughes and trainer Dexter Cranfield have been barred from racing - a devastating event for both of them. It was a vicious frame-up, and worse, they have nowhere to turn to clear their names. Still, Hughes refuses to take the phony verdict lying down...even though his personal enquiry might have him lying down permanently.
I've been a Dick Francis fan since early teenhood, but this is the first time in well over a decade that I've gone back to re-read. Enquiry has a very appealing hero, but there's too much telling relative to showing in this book. Most of the solution relies on confession, which just isn't as dramatic. Still good, though, and the audio performance from Ralph Cosham is very well done.
