https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328590.Show_Boat
The love story doesn't even come close to the plot the novel tries to be, namely "Gone With the Wind." (To her credit, Ferber's novel is ten years older...) No. This is really much like GWTW-lite.
It is, in fact, a weirdly paced paint-it-by-numbers type endevour.
Expected better.But there is an urge to make something of this by Edna Ferber.
For instance, she begins to employ 2nd person narration inexplicably at the last third.
Also begins semi streams-of-consciousness, just to, you know, add flavor.
It tells us less about the Mississippi than originally predicted, other than, you know, the main metaphor of "life as river."
Both of these outcomes are equally shocking from Magnolia's perspective, but I thought Ferber's version was substantially more optimistic (and again, less Romantic) in terms of Julie's life after she leaves the show boat.
Ferber's novel, though, has no equivalent to the most famous Show Boat song, "Old Man River": it does not attempt to foreground, in the same way, the hard, demoralizing labor of African-American people, or the systemic oppression of black folks under white rule ("you gets a little drunk, and you lands in jail").
It was a large and involved three generation, post civil war story of a strong, rigid Parhenia Hawks whose husband wanted to purchase a showboat and involved their children in the world of theatre.
You might know her other work "Giant" She's one of the best at imagery and weaving stories of a nation after war and families epic sagas.
If you relish a good, long involved story spanning generations, you will enjoy getting lost in this book.
The strength of the story follows Parthenia's daughter Magnolia who falls for a professional gambler.
The journey Magnolia travels with the unsavory character finds her in Chicago in places a nice girl should never see.
I think I love Edna Ferber’s ideas more than actually reading her novels.
For this reason I will abstain from reading “Saratoga Trunk” – I don’t think Ferber is up to the task of portraying the racial masala of New Orleans (seeing Flora Robson play a mulatto in the movie was quite enough).That said, of her first three novels I would have to recommend “Show Boat” because there is no film version faithful to it, and it has a lot to offer in what is excised.
Queenie and Jo are barely mentioned in the novel, whereas they are the two of the three most memorable characters (along with Julie) in the musical.
Now good luck getting that out of your head.We’re speaking, of course, of the musical Show Boat, which was based on the novel of the same name by Edna Ferber.
I took a compilation of five of her novels out of the library, because I actually wanted to read Saratoga Trunk.
But Show Boat was there and it won the mental coin toss and I read it first.
I hadn’t read anything by Edna Ferber before and was just blown away by her writing.
You don’t read Show Boat, you see, hear, smell, feel, touch and eat it.
I think there's a little of everyone's childhood in this book.
There's really very little in the main character with which I personally relate my own history.
But the nectar-sweet nostalgia of this story still pulled me in, with its portrayal of a charmed childhood and the inevitable progression into the often harsh bubble-burstings of adulthood.
As a novel, the story offers reasonably entertaining and insightful characters and a marvelous setting.
Like all of Ferber's works, this one isn't a plot-driven story, and it flags in its second half, due in large part to what feels like a personality transplant for the main character.
Showboat isn’t devoid of weird little racist moments, but it does have the self-respect to put those in the voice of characters instead of mainly the narrator.This book is a classic kind of three generations of a family in a particular field being a way to tell the story of a time and a place….the Mississippi river in the decades after the Civil War through the experiences and geographical positioning of Show Boat performers/crewspeople.
It wouldn’t surprise me if Dunn had this book in some kind of mind when she wrote hers, and Russell definitely stole everything she could from Dunn, so she can get credit too.
The writing initially takes you to a time before 1900, and puts you with a group and a family that owns a Mississippi riverboat and entertains on that boat a la plays and singing.
It very successfully does this and I think it is a charming story.
The writing has the right kind of description to put you in the scene, without describing it to death.
But I would recommend it to people I think are thoughtful, patient, and willing to allow themselves to be slowly brought into a time and place that was special in that era.
But the Mississippi is always different.
It’s like a person that you never know what they’re going to do next, and that makes them interesting.” Having majored in English with a minor in theatre, reading Edna Ferber’s 1926 “Show Boat” tickled my fancy with nostalgic delight.
And having had the pleasure of seeing Hollywood’s adaptation along with a lyrical production performed live, only added to my delight.
There’s a distinct difference between reading historical fiction and reading works penned in a bygone era.
But I never saw the Kathryn Grayson movie, nor read the book, until now; and it’s a wonderful book, especially for a former river town girl to read (and review).The book starts in the 1890′s, with the birth of Kim Ravenel on a show boat; she was given her unusual name (unusual for that time), because the Mississippi was in high flood, so she was born either in Kentucky, Illinois, or Missouri.
And perhaps it’s best that I read it now, for by now in my life I have been to most of the towns that the Show Boat visited; and I think that a good thing, for some reason.
This is the book on which the perpetually-revived musical is based.
It was really ahead of it's time in its portrayal of blacks (by a white author, anyway) and that must be acknowledged.
On the other hand, most of the black people are presented in a casually insulting, stereotypical way that I found grating and offensive.
I kept having to remind myself that this was a normal attitude for white people at the time, that Ferber didn't notice what she was doing and meant no harm by it, but it was hard to plow through.
Coming off of some rather poorly written books, the SAT vocabulary of Showboat was a welcome change indeed.
This is the first book in a long time where I had to actually look up word meanings.
It simply was, and I have a hard time picturing how they made a musical around it.
Alas, more attention was spent on the visual details (so many descriptives!) than character, so that while I could beautifully envision the surroundings, I never felt invested in the people.I am, however, totally curious now to see how they translated Magnolia's life into a musical.
Plus I think she skipped over the most interesting parts had she but developed it, when Ravenal leaves and Nola goes back into show business to support herself and keep Kim in the convent school.
Also the fact that she never saw Ravenal again is fine, I didn't expect them to reunite as in the musical but it was very disappointing to not learn more of what became of him other than he died in San Francisco.
What Ferber did write was quite enjoyable, she's descriptive without being overly so, like Michener, but what she leaves out of the story is such a disappointment, and of course, no Mr. Keel.
I'd seen the movie but I hadn't realized until I had gone to a live performance that the musical was based on an actual novel.
I thought it was a story especially written for a musical.
They were expected to run their own lives and the members of their families.
The women had to become subservient and were expected to sing the praises of these men who ruled over them.
But in Showboat the women are strong and although they allow their men to rule them, they, in the end, take responsibility for their own lives when these men fail them with their weakness.
I am fascinated by Edna Ferber's work and the impact they have had on our culture. Here is the book that was the basis for the musical that changed American Theater. The central character, Magnolia, is a well crafted picture of what it meant for a woman to come into full possession of her own life.
The musical was popular when I was a kid and I probably saw the movie, but don't remember for sure. However, the book is quite different from the movie/musical. Edna Ferber was popular when I was growing up and I like reading her in the same way I like reading Dorothy Canfield Fisher.
Unusual and very American. The characters are characters. What can I say? There is nothing predictable about this story. Somehow it captures the feeling of frontier America and the coming modern age. I'm a fan.
I think I am going to love everything I read by Ferber. Great writing, great stories, great characters, what is there not to love?
What I love about Edna Ferber's books is the consistency with which I can expect and receive a strong cast of female characters who, through a richly drawn narrative, take control of their respective lives.
Be warned, however, that this is NOT the reimagined (sugar-coated) musical of Rogers and Hammerstein fame.
It's not as strong of a novel as So Big, but it is, in my opinion, highly worth the read.
I found I much preferred it to the musical.
Readers who live in Chicago might find this novel particularly enjoyable—it gives life to the city's history through its depictions of familiar streets, buildings, and neighborhoods.
I chose to read Show Boat after watching the musical adaptation.
I enjoyed the musical, and wanted more of the story.Unfortunately, there is not much more to the novel.
It follows the same general plot as the musical, namely a loose telling of the life of Magnolia.
There are some differences, most of which I disliked.
The novel provides more detail about show boat life and gambling in Chicago, but at the cost of inexcusable repetition.
The repetition and some unpleasant characters really bogged down the core story.I truly believe the musical is superior to the novel.
Edna Ferber's classic paean of love to the Mississippi River and the showboats that ran up and down it is once again available in hardcover as a facsimile of the first edition.
First published in 1926, this timeless tale of the Cotton Blossom, Cap'n Andy, his shrewd wife Parthy, and their beautiful daughter Magnolia her remarkable daughter Kim was made famous on Broadway in 1927, when the legendary Jerome S.
Since then it has become a beloved favorite, revived repeatedly to entertain generations with haunting and lyrical songs such as Old Man River and Can't Help Lovin' That Man of Mine.
The novel was an outstanding read. On my 15th birthday I requested to see the off Broadway show as it moves thru the larger towns of the south. I lived two hours from New Orleans where the closest showing occurred. I thoroughly enjoyed reading the novel, but watching the show was an excellent journey into acting and the actors as they worked. Reading the novel was a pleasure, but seeing the play opened my young life to the thrills of Broadway. This was an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
Okay, a. all these years I cannot believe I didn't know this was a novel, (b) by EDNA FERBER ! and iii. what a delicious read. Yes, it is a novel of its time and of history so there's that, but its sweeping glorious portrait of the tides and times is intoxicating. I look forward to re-reading this for many years to come.
A wonderful classic. A great story, lovely writing.
It is wonderful- it sweeps you up and keeps you there - great read!!
Was not expecting this to make me cry as much as it did. Definitely a time where the book is way better than any film adaptation.
Fair warning: this book is rife with the casual racism of the day.
Whichever one we end up going to, my wife learns the piano sheet music to one of the songs and I read the literature it was based on--mine is in an effort to maximize my smugness and unsupportable behavior as I compare book to performance throughout!
My wife read the back of the book and asked a question about the main protagonist and I (almost halfway through) commented, “There’s a main protagonist?” If you’re not in a hurry or expecting anything to happen, what a visceral grouping of character-capturing, culture-depicting, setting establishing scenes.
Her daughter Kim, a famous actress, begins to tell the tale to a journalist from 'The New Yorker'.Andy Hawks, Magnolia's father, a river boat captain, buys the Cotton Blossom Floating Palace Theatre, much to the dismay of Parthenia, his wife.
Parthy doesn't approve of the stage but Magnolia loves the actors and actresses who play to the audiences each night on a glittering show boat which proceeds up and down the Mississippi River.For Magnolia the Show Boat is a magical place full of wonderful company members.
Showboat has little depth or character development. No matter: Ferber is a fine storyteller, and the story is very much worth the telling.
