https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/393146.The_Naming
It is a bit uneven in places and there is a bit more repetition that I would like, but otherwise quite good.My biggest quibble is not with the book but with the many reviewers, here and elsewhere, who compare it to The Lord of the Rings series.
Yes, the author has made up a language and a history, with appendices, for her book and country, but this is not exclusive to Tolkien.
There are no Hobbit like creatures, no ring of power, etc, etc.
And I see far more traces of other authors, like Garth Nix and Kate Constable to name a couple, than I do of Tolkien.
They will learn that a dark power, once thought vanquished, is rising again (no way!) and that corruption has reached the highest ranks of the Bards themselves.Content AdvisoryViolence: Cadvan and Maerad are frequently attacked, and sometimes seriously wounded, by supernatural beings, Bards, humans, animals, and monsters.
Language: Nil.Substance Abuse: There’s a lot of wine at feasts, but no one ever gets drunk.Anything Else: In Croggon’s “historical notes” at the back of the book, she takes strange pains to clarify that, despite their talk of Light and Dark and Good and Evil, the Bards did not follow any “monotheistic notions” of a personal God. This was fairly obvious from the way Light and Dark are discussed in the book—much closer to the abstractions of Star Wars than the more Biblical Creation-mythology of Tolkien.
When one of the main protagonists almost died, I found myself indifferent as the main characters were of a relatively uninteresting sort.
The conversations seem contrived, and the emotional state of being of her protagonists are volatile and explicitly stated rather then revealed by the characters actions.I think the book is geared towards a younger audience as I imagine a 13 year old girl might enjoy the book and better connect with things like her repeated references to a the newly discovered woes of a woman's menstrual cycle...Her invented language of the "Speech" is a fairly un-original "magic system", and while she may have gone through some effort to develop that language, I don't care or appreciate it.

A great read, I thoroughly enjoyed it and have gone straight onto Book 2 in the series.A tale of a young woman rescued from slavery, who is found to be someone special with hidden talents. Her rescuer helps her find out who she is and to develop her skills and talents. Their journey is arduous, thrilling and fraught with danger at times. A thrilling magical fantasy story and a great start to the series.
This book is very slow paced.
Most of it is a travel log of the scenery, and the level of detail is much more than is needed.
Any potential tension is completely lost in these sections.I didn't feel like I knew or understood the world very well by the end.
Unfortunately, I'm not willing to slog through the over-descriptions again (since the next book appears to also be mostly a travel log) on the hope the characters will stay interesting.On the positive side, there was no sex or cussing.
All that said, if you like slow, "fat" books, then you probably will enjoy this book.
I truly loved reading this book, and I re-read it constantly.
The plot is teased out through out the book in an expert manner with characters that are believable and loveable.
The plot unfolds at just the right pace, allowing for everything to happen without everything happening at once, which shows true skill.Overall this book is a gem, and has pride of place on my bookshelf, along with a few others.
I can't imagine ever being bored of reading this book, as it is just too good to only read once!
I LOVED these books. If I could give them 10 stars, I would. The writing was BEAUTIFUL. I have never felt so at home in a book before as I felt in these. Rich, vibrant descriptions and characters and amazing story!!
In many ways it did remind me of the LOTR - in the formal tone of the language, the songs, the descriptions of nature (particularly woods), the mood that presses in on you from the memories of the land itself, the rising conflict between Light and Dark, the travels through often-hostile countryside, and the havens full of light and wonder that break up the danger and darkness of the journey.These are all aspects of the LOTR that I love, and while reading The Naming, I relished that feeling which I have found is rare in other fantasy.
The blurb on the back cover made the book sound intriguing and I went home and read reviews.
While not unlikable or annoying like Maerad, he simply didn't feel original or interesting.I liked Hem's character.
While his whole (view spoiler)[being related to Maerad thing (hide spoiler)] was completely predictable, he was still one of the most interesting and well-rounded characters in the book.One thing that bothered me was how the whole "Chosen One" thing played out.
Cadvan spends most of the book speculating that Maerad might be the Chosen One and then it's revealed that she is.
The pace is not too slow, but not too quick. The characters are not too bland, but not too unique. The writing is good but not great. But instead of being the baby bear of fantasy novels, this one ended up being very run of the mill. I felt like I'd read the story before (the danger of reading too much in one genre), with nothing in this book making it really stand out. I eventually got bored with it and stopped reading about two thirds through.

4.5!I greatly loved reading this one, I kept it on hold for a little while, but now I'm glad I decided to finished it!Now, this is what I call High Fantasy!
Then comes Cadvan, who's character is the most inspiring in the entire book!
There was a long way to be traveled in this book, it felt real slow-paced, but I still enjoyed it pretty much, considering all the interesting challenges they come up to on there incredible journey!Look, If you're a fan of High Fantasy and love LotR, this should definitely be your next read!
I liked this book very much at the start.
I found myself imagining the slave settlement a bit like the setting in the 90's Amiga 500 game- "another world" But meh - that's how geeks roll.
I couldn't finish it.Another negative which is reserved only for the audiobook was the narrator, who did a fine job until they started singing!
its really did take some of the authenticity away from the story since much of a bards power comes from an outstanding singing voice.Getting back to the story, I found it very unoriginal - "Yawn.
Maerad is an orphan slave girl with some unusual qualities that have kept her from being victimized as most of the young female slaves are.
The author deals well with the loss of the security of the known that all young adults must cope with as they move from childhood to adulthood.
The loss is all the more difficult for Maerad because she was late to discovering the security that childhood should provide.
Simply adjusting to the new perspective of adulthood is difficult enough without having bills and broken cars and other responsibilities thrown at you - or being the fated savior of the world.
Maerad comes into her powers gradually and fairly believably.
Which I liked as I always love to get into a good fantasy world, but I felt things could have been edited down a bit.
Like the descriptions, I felt this book described non-magical everyday situations in far too much detail when only a brief description was needed.
I also felt the characters could have had more depth to them as they each had very colourful backgrounds but it didn't feel like there was anything exciting about them personality-wise.
I will read the next book but since this one felt like a long haul I won't hurry to the next one.
This book had a very old-fashioned feel to it. By that I mean it was written in a similar fashion to Lord of the Rings. I quite enjoyed it. Full review to come!
** This is just a QUICK REVIEW of my thoughts on the book **Largely boring and very typical: orphan girl of mysterious parentage discovers she has magical powers, is shunned by her peers, goes on a journey with traveling mage/warrior and lives at his house.
Maybe not quite exactly, but I remember it was very cliché, largely uninteresting and the journey went on FOREVER (“look at this tree, there's another tree, oh see another tree”).
But I do recall it kept going on about her period pains and at one point he had to explain the mysteries of womanhood to her… Romance Rating: It wasn’t doing anything for me by the time I gave it up.
This was an interesting series to me when I read it.
It contained intriguing characters and despite having been set in the YA fiction section it read more like it was targeted at a slightly older readership.
Its monsters, its world, its villains and its prophecies were like The Lord of the Rings but were their own creature.I still remember the creatures that were so well described.
And the idea of how the titular character's gift worked was fascinating compared to magic systems I've encountered since.
It was well written and still haunts my imagination.
One day I'll reread them because of their magnificence.
https://thebookwars.wordpress.com/201...
That said, The Naming was an important read for me because it served to highlight and reinforce what I kind of already knew: how tired I am of the Chosen One trope, how much I dislike overly descriptive books and how I am might be over Epic Fantasy for now.Thea’s Take:Like Ana, I’ve had my eye on The Naming for a while now.
And, like Ana, I appreciate that the book attempts to subvert familiar tropes by instituting an unapologetic female character as its heroine and the Chosen One Who Will Save The Land From The DARK.
While I enjoyed this book, I found it didn't hold my attention like I thought it would. The story was great, the characters were well written but in places it felt like the book dragged a bit. I know that occasionally it needed to so the finger details could be intended with the story but the are the parts where my attention waned. Still a good book and I will continue the rest of the series
The Naming is the beginning of Alison Croggon's well received Books of the Pellinor, a young adult fantasy trilogy centered around the land of Edil-Amarandh.
Reading through the appendices reveals that Edil-Amarandh precedes Atlantis as a mythical continent that simply disappeared (presumably, of course, this is all Croggon's creation, but at least it's an interesting way to bring the Books of the Pellinor to the real world).
Everything from the lay of the land to the hierarchy of the bards, even a little on the personal aspects of characters one might not expect in a book in the first place; all these things are delved into by Croggon so we get a good sense of what this place is like.
Well until the characters luck into a crazy unbelievably perfect under mountain passage to a magically perfectly timed meeting of ridiculously good wizards, I'm sorry, Bards, (only they’re really wizards/elves because they love life!
yay!) and she immediately is super special and heir to mysterious powers and fated to be important and starts remembering her infant time in an impossibly good city of impossibly talented people.
It was when Cadvan mentioned that his horse was from a race of magic horses and had come to his call that I had to put the book down and move on to something else before I flung my Kindle at something.
However in this series you have the young Bard, Maerad, as the heroine who follows the classic plot line of a "diamond in the rough" destined to save her world from the utter destruction of the Nameless One. The only thing that I didn't like about this book was the seemingly endless tarrying in the wilderness.
It seems Croggen could have cut out a bit the monotony of Maerad and Cadvan's journey by hurrying them along a bit quicker to their destinations.
Basically every fantasy owes its existence to Lord of the Rings, but some take it to a whole new level.
The Naming is straight up LOTR with Chosen One plot.
Descriptions of landscapes and food were appealing, and I always like it when authors create languages for their books.
I also liked how music and poetry were central to the magic system.
So, while this book has little originality to offer, it does what it does well as a enjoyable fantasy.
Also I remember the sequels branching off more from the heavy borrowing of trope fantasy characters and plots...
It felt like this book was more of an introduction to the coming books, a setting of the scene introducing the many characters and the conflict.
It's a sloooow-moving book, to be sure.Nice vocabulary but an overuse of exclamation points!
And you know how I am biased towards those who overuse exclamation points!
I think I will read the other books, though there are so many books I want to read, so we shall see.Is it weird that the major conflict is the re-rising up of "The Nameless One"?
And that the main character has foretelling dreams about this Nameless One?
This is such a detailed high fantasy that could've been too dense for me if the writing was different.
I think this book and most other fantasies use very similar tropes (orphaned slave who thinks brother is dead) but I didn't find myself rolling my eyes or anything.
I did laugh though when she used the "secret tunnels no one knows about that happen to open up in a cave for a convenient escape on a boat" thing but this book tends to have realistic reactions to the use of these events (i.e. the boat escape isn't quite as smooth as I assumed it would be).
4.5? I remembered a lot from my previous reading of this but plenty still came up and surprised me.
This is the kind of book that feels old.... Like it has been passed down from generation to generation. I really love the writing style, it flowed very smoothly and I will be reading more from Alison Croggon. If you want a adventure, a book filled with magic and a very in depth world that kinda gives you Lord of the rings vibes please pick this up.
