https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/481443.The_Case_of_the_Howling_Dog
He also complained about his neighbor's dog constantly howling and wanted to put a legal pressure on his owner to quiet the animal.
I read this book before and I remember the final twist which came literally on the last page.
While some of the most interesting regulars still have not made an appearance, this is practically the first time Perry Mason is shown in the courtroom and these are always the scenes where he shines.
P.S. If somebody wants to see what it is like to be in Perry Mason's shoes, I found several games Phoenix Wright (shown below) to be the best experience, highly recommended:
Mason is a bit rougher around the edges than the suave attorney that most crime fiction readers would recognize, and at this stage of the game he's much more willing to severely bend, if not actually break the law in the interest of serving what he sees as the greater good.As is often the case in this series, the plot becomes almost hopelessly convoluted: A man comes to see Mason about his neighbor's howling dog and about writing a will.
I came across this radio dramatization of a Perry Mason Radio Show.
I remember listening to Perry Mason on the radio when I was young.
Using information from his practice, he wrote magazine stories for pulp magazines in the 1920s and 30s.
He wrote about 150 Perry Mason novels.This story was made into a movie in 1934.
Williams played Mason in four movies.
In this story, Perry writes a Will for Arthur Cartwright.
Cartwright’s next-door neighbor is found murdered and Cartwright is missing.I sort of wished that this was a replay of the original radio show rather than a dramatization by the Colonial Radio Players.
THE CASE OF THE HOWLING DOG.
***1/2.This early Perry Mason case still focuses on the law and the many ways of using it to one’s advantage.
It starts out with a complaint by a resident that the next door neighbor has a dog that howls in the night and keeps him awake.
Mason takes on the case of the complainant about the dog, but soon realizes that he has gotten in deeper than he had anticipated.
This novel is typical of the early Mason cases and shows us the side of Gardner that brought him to best-sellerdom.
You know what you are going to get with a Perry Mason novel, a crime, an investigation and a trial. They are entertaining, easy to read and of the time. In this story, a man comes to Mason complaining about a howling dog, which in turn leads to murder!
He was just beginning to get his reputation as a master criminal lawyer.Perry is hired by a man to handle his will - and do something about a howling dog at his neighbor's home!Questioned extensively about preparing wills, the man wanted to leave his estate to the woman living next door as the wife of the man there, not the man's real wife.
However, when the will arrives the next day, with ten thousand in cash as a retainer, it's specifically left to the real wife of the man next door.
Perry is instructed to look after the wife's affairs.As Perry begins looking into things, the man, and the woman living next door, disappear.
Perry finally gets into the courtroom in this one. There were no courtroom scenes in the previous (first)three although the lack of a courtroom didn't prevent Perry from cross examining everyone in site. Perry is still in tough guy mode but he's smoothing out a bit. Della is obviously smitten with her boss and Paul Drake is in character from the first book on.I loved it! The howling dog fits nicely into the mystery and plays an unexpected part in the final twist, which tidily tops off a good mystery.
Apart from the casual racism/sexism (particularly the former) this was a really enjoyable read. It's very fast paced, so just the thing to take with you on a train or a plane: an intriguing set up, a clever mystery solver, and a dramatic denouement. Who could ask for more?
Lugu on huvitav ja küllaltki põnev.Ütlusi ja katkeid raamatust:lk 30"Siin riigis on täpselt sama palju raha, nagu alati on olnud.
See lihtsalt ei ringle samam kiirusega, Seepärast tundubki, et kellelgi raha pole."lk 93"Me oleme aru saanud, et selle juhtumi kallal töötamine on teile päris korralikult sisse toonud," ütles Holcomb.Perry Mason haigutas valjult."Seersant, see on üks mu ameti eelistest.
Samas on sellel ka palju puudusi.""Nagu näiteks?" küsis seersant Holcomb uudishimulikult."Näiteks see, et makstakse ainult võimekuse eest seda tööd teha.
Muidugi juhul, kui te alati nii vähe nutikust üles näitate, kui selle juhtumi juures."
Edge of the seat stuff... keeps you guessing... you sometimes want to throttle Perry Mason for not sharing the secrets in his mind 😀 greatly enjoyable, though sometimes verbose. But then he's a lawyer first.
The 4th novel down my "journey into time" (started in 2015) to discover old treasures like the Perry Mason Series, is, once again, a complete page-turner."The Case Of The Howling Dog" is yet another superb whodunnit which entertains to the hilt.
The best thing about this book is that Perry Mason has probably solved the case at the beginning, keeps everything close to the chest and takes immediate preemptive action to get to the truth at the right moment.
Mason is a detective through most of it, happily, he does become a lawyer after the half-mark.
Secondly, unlike most of the cases, it is unclear till the very end, whether Mason's client was really guilty or innocent.
The case was inconclusive as far as I was concerned.
Of course, there is no argument that Mason proved his mental agility and gets his client acquited, but the truth was never a part of this case all along.
Agreed, it is how real cases are, but one of the attractions of Mason's cases is the integrity and ingenuity that Mason has that saves the innocent against all odds.
Perry Mason is at his best engaged in lots of questionable activities designed to protect his client, who may or may not in fact be guilty of murder, and his character is well-developed in this fourth mystery in the series.
Nevertheless, it is a lot of fun reading this wonderful book which has been reprinted by the ABA to make Perry Mason accessible to a new generation of mystery readers while explaining in the introduction that changes have occurred in criminal procedures since the time when this series was written.
Therefore I have a certain picture of the characters and their mannerisms that Gardner took years to refine and seeing this rough form where Mason is much more rugged and Drake just seemed to lack some of the air he has later on - not too mention the over the top infatuation of Della in comparison to the more subtle humorous way she deals with her affections in later books.
That change in perception definitely dampened some of the allure of this one and along with some of the jaunty scenes that would have been flushed out much differently in the books I have previously read left some to be desired.
First, an admission.
I never watched the Perry Mason TV series.
I know who he was and the general idea of the shows, but this book is my first true meeting with Perry Mason, and I have to say I'm impressed.
We really get a feel for all the characters, what they think is important, where their loyalties lie.
Perry Mason really is a great character, it's no wonder he's become part of American culture, more or less.
It would be difficult to call Erle Stanley Gardner a great writer.
It is obvious that he dictated the books and didn't always scrupulously blend the successive dictated sesions.
Often the Perry Mason mysteries turn on coincidence and convenience--but that said, nobody could set up a mystery better than Gardner, and the books are fun to read.
Also, you can learn a fair amount about the law and legal strategy reading the Masons.
The earlier ones (I belive "Howling Dog" was the first) don't quite jibe with the later post Raymond Burr books--Mason is more of an ambulance chaser in the early books.
This is my first Perry Mason novel, and I have to say I love it. It's got everything I enjoy about pulp mysteries and Gardner knew how to write this stuff. I have a sneaking hunch that you could probably pick up any one of the eighty-some-odd novels in this series and have a blast with it. Some of of the mystery is pretty obvious, some of the plot is nutty, but it's fun, it's fast, and it's a great read.
One of the only Perry Mason books I've ever read and the ending just totally surprised me - he let a guilty person go free! Will look for more of these plus this was just a neighbor problem with a dog that wouldn't shut up --- interesting!
Another early Perry Mason. One of the plot clues I got, the rest left me baffled as usual. Would have given another star except for the degrading depiction of the Chinese cook. Probably acceptable for its day (1935), but outrageous now.
Love this series, great mysteries and quick reads.
This was a rather interesting one. Mason pulls out a lot of aces from his sleeve through the story. Though the culprit is finally not named or punished. I'd have liked that.
The Case of the Howling Dog, A Perry Mason Mysteryby Erle Stanley GardnerIt's been a long time since I've read any of Erle Stanley Gardner's Perry Mason series.
Still Gardner knows how to sculpt a mystery that keeps the reader reading long after midnight.
The hour was exactly eight forty-five.Perry Mason switched on the lights and set a leather case on Della Street's desk.
He had just placed them on the desk when Della Street came in."Other things I noticed was the use of the word clew rather than clue.
So, it was a fun read, written in an era long past.
And not in a "the author has a point to make about how racism is bad" way--the author is racist and the characters are racist too.
(At one point Mason says he doesn't need to be armed, going into a dangerous situation, because all he needs are his two fists and the truth, and--I mean, come ON.)I'm left in the position where I'd say "hey, Erle, your book would've been decent if it weren't for the rampant racism and Perry Mason being a stand-in for your junk." But I can't say that.
In The Case of the Howling Dog by Erle Stanley Gardner, Perry Mason, fresh off a huge court success, gets visited by a man wanting help making a will and stopping his neighbor’s dog from howling during the night.
The new client, Arthur Cartright, is concerned that a howling dog means death in the neighborhood, and the neighbor’s wife, Evelyn Foley, has been seriously ill.
Cartright is concerned that Clinton Foley has been making his dog howl in order to scare his wife into dying.
With the news that Foley is trying to have Cartright put in a mental institute, Mason tries to send word to Cartright to lie low but never reaches the man.
I have come late to Perry Mason and am enjoying them, partly because of the emphasis on cerebral problem-solving and the comparatively minimal violence and darkness.
There is of course some sexism, but I'm prepared to live with that.In this particular story, Perry Mason is dealing with a mysterious client who won't explain what his real agenda is and, in what must be a deliberate nod to Sherlock Holmes, a dog which may or may not have barked in the night.
While the overall plot is a bit over-elaborate and confusing, the solution to this particular conundrum is very effective -and as always, the courtroom activity is masterly.
I love detective novels, and though Perry Mason is a lawyer, the Erle Stanley Gardner books featuring him fit the form.
In this case, I was able to spot the solution early due to having read a lot of detective novels in the past.
Just as Chekov's gun on the wall must go off in act II, if anyone in a detective novel is doing any kind of renovation requiring the pouring of concrete, you can bet a body or two will be buried under it.
At that point the read becomes more like watching an episode of Columbo.
Your interest turns to watching how the detective builds his case.
Fast paced, it started out slow and built to a crescendo.
Two flaws, one because it was written in the 1930s, it uses the word Chink for a Chinese character, this one is forgivable, but the second flaw is all the to-do made over a howling dog in the beginning.
Mason tries to say he is doing it because he is fighting for his clients' rights.
It doesn't work, because then DA gets involved and acts as if it is so important that he sends a deputy to investigate a barking dog.
Sorry, sending cops out for a barking dog long after the fact just isn't believable.
Ну такое. Не совсем поняла, понравилось мне или нет, так что it was ok. Наверное, юридические детективы - это не совсем мое. Плюс иногда казалось, что я что-то пропустила, потому что не могла въехать, кто все эти люди и что вообще происходит.Но под работу слушать очень даже ничего. Послушала бы еще что-то из этой серии, но все остальные части начитывает Герасимов, которого я слушать не могу вот совсем :(
Definitely not a fan of this one like I have been of the other Perry Mason books that I have read. You actually felt like Earl Stanley Gardner was intentionally trying to be an unorthodox with the way that Perry handled the case just to see if the audience would enjoy it......I did not. Perry is a lawyer and you didn’t even get to the courtroom until 200 pages into the book. Very weird layout in my opinion.
As one of the earlier books, this version of Perry is a far cry from Raymond Burr's consummate gentleman and much more in the mold of the hard-boiled detective of the era. The plot is top-notch, with some good surprises but there's a ton of casual racism and slurs against Chinese characters. The story loses a lot in the television adaptation (though it gains Hamilton Burger); check them both out!
