https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9913.Glamorama

Bret Easton Ellis is my literary hero but I don't really recommend him to anyone. This is the only Bret Easton Ellis book with a plot; his longest work so far, and definitely the hardest book in terms of difficulty to read. It's downright disgusting, creepy and ugly. I'm not even denying it, but that's what I normally dig, so it works. Don't judge me, I've Oscar Wilde backing me up.  'At first I was confused by what passed for love in this world: people were discarded because they were too old o
This is the only Bret Easton Ellis book with a plot; his longest work so far, and definitely the hardest book in terms of difficulty to read.
Donald Trump becames president some decades after the release of American Psycho, 9/11 takes place only two years after the publication of Glamorama.
The first two-three hundred pages of the book almost reads like American psycho.
Now let me compare American Psycho and Glamorama.
All that remains is consumerism, people shallow as fuck, and a sick immoral world.
I loved Glamorama more than American Psycho, in a way, but this one was overdone.
ummmm……..*yawn?This isn’t World Weekly News, but a novel that didn’t know where or how exactly to end.
Still, I think if Bret Easton Ellis were in need of a kidney and we matched – I’d be down.
It would have been nice to read about Victor’s entrails being spun onto a wheel, the way they did in the middle ages when they’d burn trapped rats to dig into people’s stomachs.
Then, I’m wondering, am I supposed to hate Victor Ward/Johnson?
Victor Ward/Johnson is lured by a person potentially hired by his father, a man named Palakon.
And at first, GLAMORAMA feels like it could have been two different books written by two very different authors but GLAMORAMA is one of those stories that feels absolutely (and this needs to be emphasized) confusing during the read but then, after it is all over, and in reflection, it (gradually) begins to make sense, sort of.Again, GLAMORAMA is not an easy read, and really good books sometimes aren’t, and you have to be patient with this one, but like I said earlier, a lot of things will go unnoticed after a first read, and Ellis (purposefully) throws in a bunch of red herrings and several what the hell moments—and he does this with super explicit sex, amazingly graphic violence and several scenes featuring confetti—but when it all comes down to the nit-picking, I guess GLAMORAMA is really a story about excess and superficiality and the limits of control.
- Hi Leo.- Hi Leo.- Are you seriously gonna do this?- Yeah I’ve got a friend who will likely read this whom I’m hoping will find it funny that I’ve done this ahahahah.- What have you been reading Leo?- Stop saying my name. It’s creepy. I actually tried another Bret Easton Ellis book thinking I’d enjoy it. Wanted to give the guy another chance.- Hah! Not content with people taking advantage of your meekness IRL, you’re now extending the courtesy to books?- It’s too easy for you to dislike me, man
For all the internet’s merits, the whole permanent-record thing makes people’s worldviews seem artificially static.-	Yeah make sure and write a BEE-reminiscent novel about that and make sure you can tell me when it’s done so I can go ahead and not read it— anyway, wasn’t there like a weird mannequin purple blood hallucination thing in the middle?-	It’s so convenient how much you do and don’t know about what I just read, mate.-	…-	Given BEE’s commitment to soullessness— not the voice he has created for Victor, just a genuine soullessness of his mission, a novel that is indeed pages of words but with no heart behind it— it’s some Don DeLillo steal, probably.
Glamorama is a twisted, disgusting, brilliant parody of all that was the early-1990s.
Don't think the combination is possible?
Think again.
Ellis demonstrates a superb understanding of cultural critique and is creative enough to satirize with seriousness and hilarity simultaneously.
Mid-way through the novel, the story takes an unexpected and inexplicable turn.
Truly, the twist is never reconciled within the novel and the reader is left feeling literally mind-fucked.
Everyone gets blown up, drugged out, beaten, sodomized, and the smell of feces permeates the latter portion of the story (which takes place in France - coincidence or another cultural critique?).
Did I end up wearing khakis because of that fucking ad?This quote sums up what the rest of the book is about, but don't take my word for it because I have no idea what this book is about.
The brief summary is it's about beautiful people with some celebrity status being careless with their lives and then are surprised when nothing turns out the way they'd hoped.
The rest of the book is about these beautiful people lamenting missed chances and lost opportunities.
I assume there's more to it than what I just summed up, but I have no idea what that is.Full review at Wordpress
I read this book like eleven years ago, or maybe it was twelve, or inevitably even longer in the future.
I remember thinking that it was a let-down after the amazing American Psycho (which I do not care if you agree or disagree with my opinion about AP, even mentioning this book causes extreme reactions from people.
And that I feel like I've been a major douche bag by being a Bret Easton Ellis hater of sorts; just because every hipster that can read, or at least wants to make it look like he or she can read, has asked for his books, doesn't mean that I can't still like him becasue he was good, and maybe the books that came after this one are still good (or book, does he have anything more than Lunar Park?
if you were to ask my what my favorite work of fiction was, on most days, I would respond with Glamorama. Celebrity fashion models become terrorists. Photographs and appearances in the gossip columns of the worlds major newspapers begin to replace reality. Sex and drugs are consumed in mass quantities. Bombs go off. Celebrities die horrific deaths, told in a cold, obsessively detailed manner. There is a chapter long description of an passanger airlplane explosion that I now, unfortunately, think of every time I am strapped into one, preparing for takeoff. This book is not for the squeamish.
It's actually kind of a 90's version of what AP was to the 80's, a sort of indictment/celebration(?) of materialistic/consumer culture, at least at the begining.
Featuring a main character just as vapid as Patrick Bateman, Victor Ward is a male model who spends the first 200 pages going to night clubs and hanging with tons of equally vacant celebrities.
Ellis's style makes this all pretty funny, but then the book takes a total 180, and Victor gets pulled into a world of model terrorists and loses sense of who's who and what's what in a haze of sex and violence.
Oh my god, somebody help me. I'm a prisoner in a book that's a cross between "Party Monster", "Project Runway" and every annoying E! Network program that pretends it's not gay but is so gay even Logo won't touch it. Smarmy and irritating to the point where the satire has to be justified in your mind just to get through this mind rot. I've read comic books with more culture than this trash! Spamorama.
[March 29 - You know it's a bad sign when you continue reading a book purely to figure out how best to describe what's wrong with it.]Someone once said that writing a bad review of a novel is like destroying an ice cream cone with a sledgehammer.
well, the occasional distant reminder of Less Than Zero which did everything right that this book does wrong, including, possibly most importantly, a respect for brevity.But Less Than Zero, excuse me, had aspirations to explore the human condition rather than giggle and simper and gossip about it.
Maybe it was vision, talent, a stroke of inspiration.
Scott Fitzgerald and a latter day “lost generation” were drowned out by the more derisive label of “brat pack” that was soon attached to Ellis and several other hot young 1980s authors with splashy book contracts, in particular Jay McInerney (Bright Lights, Big City) and Tama Janowitz (Slaves of New York).All hell broke loose with Ellis’s third book, American Psycho (1990), which is one of the more genuinely shocking novels of recent years and perhaps his masterpiece.
Several of the characters in the new novel, including Victor himself, also appear in Ellis’s 1987 book, The Rules of Attraction.)Is Glamorama for everyone?
Some feminist critic (I think it was Kate Millet) once criticized John Updike for being "a penis with a thesaurus".
This is a pretty devastating critique, I think.
It's (most likely) totally wrong and unfair and such (I haven't read much Updike, to be honest) but that also makes it kind of awesome in a sniping, political-cartoon kind of way.
Taking a page from this person (I'm pretty sure it was Kate Millet) I'm going to say right here and now that Bret Easton Ellis is an AmEx with a thesaurus.
I know, I just totally did that.
I remember that I had to quit in the middle of this book because it felt like the world was collapsing in on itself. And literally, Glamorama does. It is so dense, that just like a black hole, it sucks everything in, even gravity.It is the story of Victor post-Camden, now a high profile model/celebutante!?! This is the reason why I picked it up. I love how B.E.E. makes for creating a whole new world for his characters. The novel is half espionage and half drug-induced. If you want to escape into another world, jump on in.
Prior to moving to New York, Victor attended the illustrious Camden College, which is evidently a haunt of the elite with many of Camden’s former students residing in Manhattan and appearing in the book.
Palakon persuades Victor to leave New York and travel to London, his mission to locate Jamie Fields, a former female pupil of Camden, who is apparently still in love with our protagonist.
The reader is left undecided as to whether many of the events, particularly in the second half of the book, are actually real or are merely part of a constantly mentioned film set.
"What the f**k?" Glamorama is not only a satire of the film/modelling agency and celebrity culture, but also explores the threats of terrorism and surveillance.
Victor Ward is a model, unsympathetic and shallow but represents everything about 90s minimalism and desensitisation.
The second third starts getting interesting as Victor realises he is in something bigger than he can understand, yet it is still shadowed under the saturation of celebrity culture that he is obsessed with.The last 100 then completely messed me up.
Like American Psycho, Ellis leaves you wondering if anything you just read even happened.
Although Ellis follows his familiar intriguing style, I found myself loving and loathing this book at the same time.
There were times I just wanted to finish so that I could be done and others when I genuinely wanted to finish the story.
Following the young, rich, and hip for way too long, this book seems to offer too many details; some of them make sense later, others just seem like a way to add pop culture references.
I found myself skimming over paragraphs that seemed to be placed just to shock.Overall, good if you are a fan of the author but others probably wouldn't care too much.
I have read this book many times and of course the first time through, much like with Imperial Bedrooms, I felt overwhelmed. Mr. Ellis is the most gifted writer I have read. His attention to detail borderlines on obsessive compulsive and yet he spins it all in such a way that I felt mesmerized. I cannot recommend his work enough. However, there are many who probably won't be able to handle his brutal honesty. Sadly, they will miss out. The deeper the cut, the more it bleeds. I appreciate anyone who isn't afraid to cut all the way through.
I'm a big fan of Ellis, and at first was fairly nonplussed by this one. Soon enough, though, I was entirely sucked in... and not just because of the chapter-long threesome scene, upon which my friend had recommended this to me. That I actually found rather unnecessary, if well done. But I digress.After I finished, I found myself for days afterwards thinking in the frenetic staccato tone of the narrator, which is as good an indicator as any that this book is pretty kickass.
Rereading this for the fourth or fifth time, and it gets better and better. This is my bible.*** And again.
It's really not worth me spending too much time on, however, I want revenge on this book.
It's really long (about 540 pages) and the first 337 pages are so terrible.
I wanted to put it down after page 60, but I was reading this with a book club, so I decided to attempt to stick with it.
Then it bored me for another 40 pages or so - oh to pick back up!
It's VERY graphic and I don't really need to read a 7 page long sex scene.
Also, if you have a fear of flying - I don't recommend reading this book.
My personal favorite of Ellis's works.I had a good time with the symbolism in the book (though some of it is still somewhat confusing), the shallowness of the characters, etcetera. My only beef with the book is that it should have ended at a point before the actual ending. It wrapped up nicely, Bret, why did you have to go and add more?Like pretty much everything written by Bret Easton Ellis, it's not for everyone.
This could be my new favorite BEE novel, I may have to give Lunar Park another read before I can say for sure though. Yeah, it took a little bit to really get going, but once it did I was sucked in.
Ellis provoacă şi reuşeşte să păstreze treaz interesul cu un stil rapid, bulversant, violent, uneori patetic, dar bine camuflat în dialoguri vii şi crude.“Glamorama” este o carte ce merită citită iar gustul amar de la sfîrşitul ei, nu se datorează nici cafelei băute pentru a te ţine treaz toată noaptea ca să termini cartea, ci lui Victor Ward\Johnson şi a lumii plină de strălucire, de confetti, de bliţuri, de zîmbete prefăcute, de haine de la Prada şi Calvin Klein, de Xanax, Kleenex, lume care poate să nu fie deloc ceea ce pare a fi.
I've actually been kind of digging that stuff (the celebrity name lists, the hilariously shallow conversations, the utter stupidity of Victor as he moves from fuck to dangerous fuck..)I honestly am not sure I can finish reading the book without being sucked into this FUCKED-UP SHIT.
Please, please, excuse my french, but I don't think I was ready to read this book.
I recently read the first torture scene (of Sam Ho) and the words keep running through my head.
The whole boat sequence was like an insane trip.
But I think I might have to read more.
A guy I know, Cliff, and I were at the Trolley Stop knocking back some nasty dollar drafts and talking about obscure noize music ("Black Dice is okay, but Daughters blow their shit out of the water"), when we somehow got on the subject of school and our English degrees, and he brought up books and specifically Bret Easton Ellis."I loved American Psycho, but Glamorama just didn't hit it for me, you know?" I told him."Ugh!
I still don't quite understand this book, but I do understand that Ellis can parody real life with ease.
I didn't think this was a successful novel but it has ideas about celebrity and spectacle that are of this moment and interesting.
Those ideas ultimately feel underdeveloped because he's determined that the novel must also be about his "signatures" - The graphic violence that I find disgusting and unbelievable as well as the graphic superficiality that I find disgusting and believable.
Maybe the novel would've worked better if he'd left those things behind (I believe American Psycho was successful) and worked harder to develop the celebrity/political/terrorism/spectacle thing he seems most interested in anyway.
This is the worst book I have ever read from cover to cover. I will never read another Bret Easton Ellis book again. I'm sure he's heartbroken.
Glamorama e o carte dură, dar nici realitatea nu se lasă mai prejos.Recenzie: https://catrinaionescu.blogspot.ro/20...
