https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40223.Kushiel_s_Avatar
*** 4.44 *** "... “We are all these things [...]. Pride, desire, compassion, cleverness, belligerence, fruitfulness, loyalty...and guilt. But above it all stands love. And if we desire to be more than human, that is the star by which we must set our sights. ”..." Wow! What an ending to the Phedre Trilogy!!! An ending worthy of a series which is one of a kind and not to everyone's tastes. There isn't much more to say about the spirit of the series than I have said in my previous reviews and I wou
An ending worthy of a series which is one of a kind and not to everyone's tastes.
The struggle between honor, love, political games, pain, sexual hunger and desire, and loyalty are what makes the characters of Phedre, Kushiel's chosen, and Joscelin Verreuil, the defrocked warrior priest, some of the most rounded and layered characters in Fantasy I have ever encountered.
However, can even Joscelin and Phedre's love survive the travails and her nature, which test them to the edge of forbearance...
I am a bit sad that this story ended, but I am glad that the author dis not let us down.
She went there because she knew her God, Elua, was calling her to...I dug the prophet vibe, and I got (yet again) chills when Carey described the feelings that came over Phedre when she realized what she had to do.
Its so funny I know, that I found so much religious meaning in a book so full of strange gods.Anyway, absolutely brilliant end to this trilogy of the series.
I ended it more than half in love with both Phedre and Joscelin, and I dare you to read them and not feel the same.
Although I did enjoy the first two books in this series, it was with a bucket of reservations: repetition, overblown language, and inadequate characterization of the supporting characters, which made the impressively plotted political machinations so much less involving.The third book, however, overturned most of these.
There is still repetition (I will own, if I ever hear that phrase again I will go mad), but the high-flown language comes into its own describing the lengthy journey undertaken by Phedre and co.
In particular, the development of the relationship between Imriel, Phedre and Joscelin was moving and genuine, and gave a satisfying conclusion to the series.
As this setup may signify, the stories are rich in political intrigue, the prose is sensual bordering on luxuriant, and the scope of the books is epic.Occasionally, Carey's turns of phrase will reveal to me the wide-eyed fangirl behind the sophisticated writer, and I cherish those moments almost as much as the passages that leave me feeling awe.
In those moments, I feel I know Ms. Carey like an old friend.This book in particular is the culmination of Phedre's story, and it is a fitting swan song for our anguisette.
Not quite a 5-star read but my favorite of the trilogy. The writing is nearly superb for most of the book, with so much meaning and depth packed into each sentence, and with every arc that began in the first book coming to a head, there's never a dull moment. It's pretty much edge-of-your-seat action for the last 500 pages. However, as much as I love this book, there's a good chunk--about 300 pages--I will never ever read again. Ever. (view spoiler)[Drujan. Darsanga. That zenana. *shudders* (hide spoiler)]
As I finish this trilogy for the second time, I am - no kidding - hugging the book to my chest and willing for Phèdre's story to continue.
That is how much I love Kushiel's Legacy.
How do I describe my love for these books?
I love them for it.Of course, these books are not without their flaws.
At the centre of this book - no, of this legacy - lies one meaning, and one meaning only: Love.
I realised that whenever I turned to the map at the front of the book, seeing Carthage just made my blood boil.
Nevertheless, they have no choice but to deal with the difficult situation in whatever way they can and then try to heal the wounds that this effort will cause them.As you understand, to write like this, it means that this third book has a special force within it, capable of making you excited, troubled in general before giving you a glimpse of light.
But even in the most difficult situations, where she has to show the pain of the heroine and her sufferings, the beauty of writing remains.
A powerful conclusion to this epic trilogy.
It got very dark in the middle, so much so that I did put it down for a while, but i’m so glad I continued.
Carey’s writing is so beautiful it brought me to tears at the end.
Everything about this trilogy is bittersweet and all the more emotionally powerful for it.
Joscelin.
Joscelin is my favourite.
The world, religions and mythology are excellently crafted and I loved visiting Egypt, Venice, Cyprus, Croatia, among others!, and how the separate mythologies we know today intertwined in this story and came to this beautiful conclusion.
Funny, since in the past it was my go to law school exams reading choice.Thing 1: I really like how this series talks about women’s power – political, sexual, subversive.
A lot less interesting and a lot more eyebrow-raising when she starts doing it to other cultures.Thing 3: It’s funny just how unengaging I found so much of this.
Heroine is literally marked by a god to suffer, to be able to bear it so other people don’t have to.
It’s a literalization of the implicit shape of a lot of epic fantasy, and of course a pretty good metaphor for the relationship of writer to character.
How can a series with prose this purple and a premise this absurd be so gripping?
Purple or no, Carey’s writing is engaging; and somehow I completely buy into the idea that a prostitute with a heart of gold can use her astonishing beauty and hardcore masochism to save the world.In this conclusion to the trilogy, Phèdre seeks nothing less than the Name of God, which she needs to free her friend who was trapped on an island by an angry angel in the first book.
I never say much about 6 star books. Just know you'll be investing heavily with your emotion on this one. My heart broke so many times I felt it physically and I was up until the wee hours to get my answers but I was not disappointed. This was an experience I'll NEVER forget. thank you Jacqueline Carey. You have raised my standards.
Dart is still my favourite of the trilogy.Carey can write, that much is obvious, and her world is complex and extremely fascinating, but...Phèdre's voice bothers me.
I didn't dislike it at first, even though I liked all the secondary characters more than her, but after three books I've grown tired of her.
Even book 2, for all its angst, was slightly better in my opinion, because Melisande stole the show.Plot wise I liked this conclusion.
That is probably due to the fact that I don't understand Phèdre, I guess, I do not know.
I like Joscelin (who doesn't?) but sometimes his relationship with Phèdre seemed a bit off to me.
I gotta say, this was one of the most all-around satisfying conclusions to any series I've read. Not a word too many, nor too few. So many authors rush the final pages of a series, and I'm happy to say that Carey doesn't. What started as a reading experiment in broadening my reading tastes with Kushiel's Dart has ended in a journey that felt longer than its 3 novels, which is a testament to the writing skill of Jacqueline Carey. Great characters, interesting semi-historical world, and riveting plot throughout.
I think that I walked the Lungo Drom with them.This book is not just another story of Phedre and her beloved Joscelin.
From the land of Terre d’Ange and the great beauty, Phedre and Joscelin, ten years after the events of the second book are beginning a long journey.
They found their limits, the fought their demons and at the end they found their truth.Another character that I absolutely loved in this book is Imriel.
I can’t wait to read more about him!Of course, many more characters were important in this book both old and new ones, but I won’t write for all because it will be a huge review!
Their efforts will take them through what we would consider the Middle East and Africa and will keep them far from their home fires for a long, long time.This is easily the darkest book in the trilogy in my opinion and, again, it is at the near halfway mark when things start to take a turn.
So while I am at times utterly appalled by the things (and people) that create sexual desire in her, Phedre herself is horrified in her heart and mind.
I have always considered myself open-minded but these books have challenged me on that point somewhat, and that's not a bad thing.
I couldn't have believed that Jacqueline Carey knew how to better the last book, but she did.I was glad to see that Phedre and Joscelin's relationship has solidified somewhat, I guess 10 years without mishap worked well for them.
I don't think I've read better or cried more for a long time.The lore and history of the books is still brilliant also, the storyline roughly follows the legend of the lost tribes of israel (jewish lore), but as I know barely anything about that in real terms, I couldn't say anything about how the story was used, or how close to 'realistic' it was, I don't even know much of the relative countries in modern terms...
I felt spent after reading book 2 in this trilogy...
but that was nothing compared to the terrible beauty of Kushiel's Avatar.
We might wish for gifts from the gods, here in our cubicles or sitting in rush-hour traffic, but this book outlines the price of being the Avatar of a god such as Kushiel, and the courage required to meet his demands.
Unlike the others in this trilogy, I have only read this volume twice--a tribute to the extreme emotional response Carey is able to invoke through her magnificent writing.She is my hero!
As much as I loved this series and as much as I loved the ending of this book I had to give it only 2 stars and prob only deserved 1.
2 reasons...First, the middle part of this book was awful.
I ended up briefly skimming the middle third and it still took me twice as long to read.
Second, the whole weird hycinthe "love" was weird and pissed me off.
Joscelin loved her and the fact that she was making out with melisande and hy every time she saw them irritated me.
I should have stopped at book 2
Beneath it all, I was still a whore’s unwanted get, struggling to make sense of the world and do what was right. Ah Phèdre, how far we've come from that first meeting in  Kushiel's Dart  and how much we've ended up learning: about Terre D'Ange and the children of Elua, yes, but also about the wider world, now spanning into Carey's reimagining of Egypt, Carthage, the Middle East and Africa. A voyage of discovery, of cultural exploration and above all, about love (and this book goes beyond just r
and how much we've ended up learning: about Terre D'Ange and the children of Elua, yes, but also about the wider world, now spanning into Carey's reimagining of Egypt, Carthage, the Middle East and Africa.
Both Phèdre and Joscelin have grown from our first glimpses of them in that initial novel, they've been through slavery and pirates and now, in Kushiel's Avatar, they will venture into their worst nightmare yet.
She is a masochist, yes, and although Carey has touched upon the potential conflicts, it's not until Kushiel's Avatar that she truly goes into that in greater detail.
I will not finish it, even though it is the third in a series and even though I usually make a habit of finishing books.I have read a few so-called "grimdark" fantasy authors and it never bothered me even slightly.
The language is trying way too hard to sound high-brow and the world is a super weird, unimaginative only slightly-altered copy of (mainly) European culture and religion which is also a bit cringy and enforces stereotypes left and right - there was a part in this book where the main character is in an Arabian-esque country and talks about how the men (granted, they are bad guys, but still) allegedly have sex with goats - so there is that.
The romance between Phèdre and Joscelin is deeper, more intense, and there is heart-wrenching angst between them after Phèdre's nightmarish time in Daršanga.
Imriel becoming Phèdre's foster son was certainly a poetic turn of events, given her past with Melisande and her vow never to have children (for fear of producing another anguisette).
Though this ending hardly came as a surprise, part of me feared that Ysandre would step in and claim custody of Melisande's son, leaving Phèdre with yet another loss to mourn.
The conclusion to Jacqueline Carey’s Kushiel trilogy featuring Phedre no Delaunay leads us to Phedre’s darkest hour.
Imriel is no ordinary child; born of Phedre’s betrayer, Melisandre Shahrizai, he is of two lines.
From his mother’s blood, he is bequeathed the darker aspects of Kushiel’s legacy.In Phedre’s quest to find the lost boy, she must yield and endure the worst her gods ask of her.
For each Good person, when an unspeakable act is committed, motives are explained in such a way that forces the reader to empathize.J. Carey is a true artist who paints exquisite scenery and erotic situations.
I eagerly wait for her next trilogy into the world of Terre d’Ange.
A beautiful end to a fantastic trilogy."I prayed it would end in love.
I prayed we could come home, all of us."I love Phèdre nó Delaunay de Montrève.
Phèdre is one of the most beautiful, complex, fully-realized fantasy heroines that I have ever had the pleasure of reading.I love old-fashioned, unexpectedly humorous, "protect and serve" Joscelin.
I love Imriel, Ysandre, Nicola, Kaneka, Favrielle, and Quintillus Rousse.
Should not forget."Kushiel's Avatar dips its characters into the depths of hell.
Phèdre herself questions Kushiel.
This has been one of the best fantasy trilogies, with the best heroine, that I've read.
I liked Phedre throughout the series but I felt that here in the last instead of growing older and wiser she became even more selfish and unlikable.
Hyacinthe and Melisande always rated higher.
She would have even left Imriel in the end if Hyacinthe would have had her.
And the last chapters, which were very important to the entire Phedre story seemed tacked on.But actually in some ways I liked this book better than Choice.
I liked the return of characters from the first.
And I really liked the character Imriel.
My favorite scenes were between Phedre, Joscelin and him.A good book.
I wrote the following review for my Kindle copy of this book.
But keep in mind how much I admire Anne Flosnik's incredible interpretation of the written words.I finally understand why my husband was so in love in Jacqueline Carey.
Even after I move to my 'go to sleep' book and I finally crash, I dream these stories.I have shelved these books in erotic but there is so little erotic and it is well a part of who the main character and about her worship of her gods.
It is love that directs the main character's choices in life.Jacqueline Carey is a story teller.
*Let's out a fangirl squee* Okay, I really liked the first book, enjoyed the second but this... this was awesome. It kept me up reading late several nights in a row and was worth every second. The final makes all of the other books better in retrospect (though I'll keep my ratings the same, as I like them reflecting my feelings when first finishing the book). This cemented the series as one of my favorites and I'll be keeping an eye out for the author's other books.
Fantastic series. So different and yet so compelling. For everybody who has read a lot and wants an insider tip.A must have for every Home Fantasy Library
But this book was more about love, what with the various subplots finally playing out: Hyacinthe, Melisande's son, what Kushiel wants of Phèdre, etc, etc.
It was good to see a more tender side of Melisande, the love for her son, and was interesting to get to know Imriel -- how different he turns out.
I love the peace he and Phèdre make with it all: it's appropriate, and good to see them finding a balance.All in all, I really wish I had the Imriel trilogy right now.
Kushiel's Avatar starts out that way, but halfway through the novel Phedre grows a little more rebellious; it's like she starts fighting for herself for once, instead of being swept along by the current and making the best of it.
She fights - makes some life-altering decisions, some terrible, terrible sacrifices, but there is a lovely message of hope in the book in that no matter how much she, Joscelin and Imriel suffer in captivity (because they are once again captured, in an even worse way than before), there is a streak of hope that runs through the entire thing.
Yes, Phèdre is of course extra super special, touched by gods, and beloved of the most perfect man ever, but her narration never makes her come across like a Mary Sue, because she is such a real, complex character.
I'll leave it to you to interprete what that says about my brain.- Never trust a woman named Melisand(r)e.- I'll from now on frequently refer to myself as D'Angeline to explain things, as, I think, if that world was real, where I live would be part of it.
People in general seem to like it, but I just can't imagine that another narrator would come close to Phèdre.Sigh...love hurts, and every farewell doubly so...
