https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11808950-sweet-evil
I just realized I hadn't rated this. Dur.Oh, wow. Loved this book. Angel books are hard to do and this one is the best. And Kaidan? Can I lick him? Heck, I'll lick Wendy. Okay. Maybe shouldn't have written that. This is why I don't do reviews. Le sigh.
I walked right into this one. I admit it and I know it’s my fault, and I probably deserve what I got. However, that doesn’t mean it makes it less painful.Sweet Evil is the most idiotic book I’ve read this year. And I mean it. I totally mean it. I could tell I was going to regret getting it since page one. Running had become my new pastime five weeks ago, after I’d read how my body is the “temple of my soul.” Healthy temple: check. Wha??Ok, it’s not THAT bad but I still had a feeling deep down my
However, that doesn’t mean it makes it less painful.Sweet Evil is the most idiotic book I’ve read this year.
He has the same mood-ring color bullshit going on as our sweet little Saint Anna.
So Kaidan is probably there (I’m not 100% sure about this since I dropped the book around 40% of the way) to guide her towards their people, since they have the same traits and all.Predictability dangerously close to 80%.
And you’re ok with it.That’s great parenting Patti, you should write a book about it.Eventually they go on the trip and poor Saint Anna is trying her best to avoid being seduced by the sexy Kaidan.
Not only did she knowingly allow her just-turned 16-year-old (and extremely naïve) daughter on a 5-day cross-country trip with a 17-yeard-old boy that she doesn’t know at all (and I mean AT ALL), oh no, she also went down the awkward route and told that same boy to bring her daughter back with her virtue intact.“Hands off, Mister!” Yes, she actually said that.
I know she’s supposed to lure people into drinking and stuff, but there are things/words no father, demon or not, should teach/say to his child.
Just like the characters, the story did, too, rub me totally the wrong way.
So if you have read through the entire novel you know that Patti (Anna's mom) knew that Anna was never going to be just a normal person.
She knows that Anna going on the CROSS-COUNTRY TRIP has a great deal to do with her mission, that if she didn't complete it in time that it wouldn't be working well in God's favor.
That is why it makes sense to me that PATTI would allow Anna to go on the trip.
If you read the scene about Anna's birth and how Patti came to adopt her it makes sense why Patti would believe that letting Anna go was the right thing for her to do.
like?????That's literally nothing, this entire book was me having to read about a fucking whiny special snowflake who couldn't shut the fucking hell up about how much she fucking want Kaidan fucking Rowe.
Like, bitch, shut your mother fucking annoying, whiny bitch ass mouth about how fucking hot Kaidan is and how much you want his fucking dick buried in your fucking vagina.
I legit feel like this entire book was about this annoying, whiny bitch wanting Kaidan's dick in her vagina, which she sadly mistakes for "love."This fucking Anna girl is so fucking naive and stupid, God help her fucking pathetic ass.
I don't know but the audio ruined it so I don't know how I feel. Damn it all!!!
My Anna and Kaiden: “...but even the devout have weaknesses. The demons have to take different measures with different cultures, because some are more accepting of sin, while others are stricter. It’s all a matter of semantics and presentation. They come up with ingenious ways to promote pain and apathy, kind of like marketing schemes. Seek pleasure. Eat, drink, and be merry. Carpe diem.” Anna is ideal student and equivalent of a good girl. She never lies, because even small harmless lie makes h
The feelings between those two evoke but when Anna discovers her true origin, she realizes that Kaiden may be too bad for her and being together is very dangerous for both of them.
Will she be able to resist this sweet evil temptation???Anna was quite a naive character at the beginning since she was sheltered from all bad her whole life.
It was very insteresting to read about how afftected Kaiden was by Anna but simultaneously tried to stay true to his sinful origin.
Around the time for her sixteenth birthday, it is through Jason that Anna meets Kaidan – the HOT drummer with no emotions that she can see/feel.
Anna realizes that Kaidan is like her and they take a road trip to go and meet Anna’s father and that is when she slowly discovers about her heritage and who she truly is.The characters in this book are really swoon worthy.
His strength of character is what makes him stand out in the story.
So this book opened a new world of ideas to me – ideas that I truly liked.
Couldn't put it down. BUT being the hopeless romantic I am, the ending upset me. I know there will be another book in this series but the waiting is going to be tough. Excellent read though.
Now, it got boring for me because of this problem that arose, I was like, "Wait this problem has always existed, since the beginning, why is it only being acknowledged now?" I mean I wish it was like the addicting kind of angst; it was just Anna whining about Kaiden, blah blah blah.
A whole fucking long ass chapter would be Anna talking to someone to help her understand the shit that's happening.
Seems like some ridiculous read, but nonetheless, fun.
As soon as we get the cover art!
Reviews aren't cool without pretty cover art to go with them.
:D Love you, Wendy!Edit:Wendy...can I have permission to shake my bum in everyone's faces?
*shakes bum in everyone's faces* Muahaha!
Okay, so yes, Wendy's one of my best friends, and yes, I got to Beta read this awesome book, but no, I will not lie in my reviews.
So when I say it's awesome, I mean it!Wendy combines so much of what readers love to read in YA with this book.
Read it!Full review at Blue Butterfly Books.
however overall it has an undeniable like-ability factor to it that I'm sure I won't forget about.Final thoughts ...This is a young adult paranormal series that has got it's claws in me, I can't wait to pick up book two in this series and I'll be sure to look out for more from this author.
One more thing worth mentioning, for a young adult series the characters, Kaidan and Anna were something special I can't wait to learn more about them and hopefully fall in love right along side them.
Oh my GOODNESS!Seriously Ms. Wiggins I don't know how you do it but you made my legs like jelly again!I WANT TO RIP YOUR CLOTHES OFF KAIDAN!  I love Kaidan's POV. I hope that there will be more shorts on his POV. :)How can I have just read this now? Thank you Pang for letting me know about these shorts!Merged review: “What are you going to do?”“Nothing that would compromise your virtue and have Patti hunting me down.”----------------------------------------------------If an angel and the devil w
Will he set her wings on fire?Anna was good.She good in a way that she doesn’t commit any wrongdoing if she could help it.She always had the urge to do the right thing.She wasn’t normal and she knew that all too well.She tried her best to blur out the weird things that were happening to her so that she could live as normally as she could.She was not expecting her world to turn upside down when she met the drummer of the band Lascivious, Kaidan Rowe.Kaidan Rowe was bad news and she knew it.She kept on telling herself it was better to stay away but she couldn’t.There was something about the elusive Kaidan that draws Anna to him.Was it just his charm?They were nothing like each other.But are they really different or more the same?FIRST IMPRESSIONSHonestly, the thing that drew me to this book in the first place was the cover and the title.They were pretty good.Sweet evil.You have to admit that title would make you curious.The cover was pretty haunting.The balance of the white and the black and the red gown.It was just so good.But of course I am not very happy with the guy on the cover.
Anna never felt wrong to me and it’s due to Wendy Higgins talent that I fell in love with this adorable girl!*fans self* Kaidan … *dies* Kaidan ..
He featured everything I love in paranormal novels including his outrageous attitude, seductive hotness, strong package and the promise that there is more inside him which needs to be discovered.In Kaidan, there is no innocence, he’s the bad boys girl fall for and get broken.
18Love, steamy Hottness, Heartbreak, Butterflies and Tears… Tears and TearsThis whole story was incredible emotional and Wendy Higgins has this incredible talent to make you feel what their characters felt.
I have a lot of issues with the characters!) The MC (Anna) was absolutely naive, annoying, innocent, and can be very careless and stupid!
I don't know how many times I gagged when he says he goes "working".Anna's adoptive mother, Patti, was even more stupid.
(And they almost did it.) Do you not know the consequences of what's going to happen with being a demon who wants to have sex with you?
(Love triangle with Kaiden, Anna, and Kopano)The angel/demon/nephilim stories was original and has a strong potential in the story, but the characters failed in so many ways.
I liked the plot, and I liked the pace and how the heroine matured and developed throughout the book, and it's just the first novel in the series so character development at that level was not something I expected and it surprised me nicely.Anna Whitt can see everyone's emotions, she can see and feel their feelings.
She and her best friend love music, well Jason loves music more and that's why he and Anna go to gigs and such.
Kaidan, though, the drummer boy I mentioned above is the complete opposite from Anna.
There are many more intriguing characters, but I won't go into detail about them.
Final rating: 2/5 stars   “...there is no way of truly knowing one’s heart until one is put to the test.”   ⚠ Rewritten the review. This book didn't work out for me. Seriously, the hell did i just read? It was so wrong, and on so many levels. I have no other idea how to say this. But this book is  just wrong.  I wanted to love this book, but we were not meant to be. LIKED: ☑ world building and idea in general DISLIKED: ☒ Characters, especially Anna. Although, for everyone else, most of them were
Ok, that was the point, i get it, but she overused the goodness in Anna, and also made it like Kaidan did not have even slightest choice.
, son of Alocer - Duke of Wrath with occupation of spurning love, opting for destruction; quick to anger; unforgiving that being a type to start fights, was cool, and maybe it would be more interesting if Anna ended up with him, instead of hooking up with Kaidan.
Fantastic idea - really loved it, but I disliked the characters, and felt no attachment to any of them.
But Anna’s got a little secret; she has heightened abilities that allow her to gauge emotions and eavesdrop (let’s just tell it like it is), plus she’s afflicted by a little freckle on her top lip (whoopdedoo!).
Let’s put this delicately: Anna loses her shit from the moment she encounters Kaidan and onwards.
Yes Anna, it’s totally not like the Nephilim and rest of the human race are being mistreated and abused by Demonic forces.
Can you imagine SUPER SEXY KAIDAN saying words like
At a glance, Sweet Evil seems like another young adult paranormal romance book.
It's completely amazing and I'm pretty sure this review will not do any justice to how much praise this book truly deserves.One of my favorite things about Sweet Evil is the world building.
Sweet Evil was actually really good.
It leaves me dying to wonder what's going to happen between our starcrossed lovers!Sweet Evil is one of the best written love stories I have read in a long time, with a dark plot and a brilliant set of characters as well as a delectable relationship that had me rooting from the start!
I'm absolutely in love with this book!! But what about the ending? Hell, I need more right now. Why isn't possible to give this book six stars? :D
I enjoyed this book for the story it was.
I liked how different the characters were, but they were certainly flawed.
I don't really like being confused while reading - books are for enjoying and relaxing, not for being confused and getting stressed but you think you've missed something, or just can't figure out what is going on.
Like I said though, I definitely enjoyed this enough to read on in the series and figure out what the end game is.
I didn't like the ending of this book, it was sad, and it left me wanting.
4.5 Stars I love Wendy Higgins's take on the nephilieum genre. Having each person belonging to a sin - which isn't limited to the seven deadly sins and having to work for their fathers. I love Belial (Anna's father) he reminds me of a tough biker dude with a soft spot for Anna and her mother. Overall I'm definitely on team Kaiden! I do like Kopano as well but he has nothing on Kaiden
Also, humans have guardian angels, Nephilim can seem in them, but Anna just started out seeing a white puff of smoke beside the human since she hasn't trained for her "work." I did like that idea, it was something I hadn't read before.
I hate it when this happens, where the hero does something stupid and caused the heroine to feel shitty, then he apologizes like a 6-year-old does when he pisses outside of the training toilet.I don't know if I'll read the next books, it's highly unlikely.
*Clears throat* Thank you Wendy, thank you for releasing this Sweet Evil Extra #2. I can now say that I am officially in love with a fictional character. Thanks to you Wendy Higgins. Thank you. *Steps off soapbox* I LOVE YOU KAIDAN!!!! PD: I knew it! he loves her!! I knew it!!...lalalalala..lalalala...Merged review:OH DEAR GOD!!!  I KNEW IT, I KNEW IT, I KNEW IT!! KAIDAN LIKES ANNA. KAIDAN LOVES ANNA!! *singing the happy song*  I ABSOLUTELY LOVE THIS!!! with all my heart,body,brain,internal orga
*Clears throat* Thank you Wendy, thank you for releasing this Sweet Evil Extra #2.
I can now say that I am officially in love with a fictional character.
Thanks to you Wendy Higgins.
*Steps off soapbox* I LOVE YOU KAIDAN!!!!
he loves her!!
I knew it!!...lalalalala..lalalala...Merged review:OH DEAR GOD!!!
KAIDAN LIKES ANNA.
KAIDAN LOVES ANNA!!
I ABSOLUTELY LOVE THIS!!!
I loved it :)Merged review:AHHHHHH!!!!
How much AWESOME can this book get!!!I loved this story so much,it was such a great read that by the time I reached the end I was like:
Oh please miss Wendy Higgins let them be together PLEASE!!!
This was highly addicting. I kept picking it up, planning on only reading a chapter or two, then realizing I had read 100 pages. I just couldn't ever put it down. I really like the mythology. It made the story more unique from other demon/angel books I've read. The main characters were nothing special and kind of the typical YA tropes but I still found myself caring about them and liking them. I loved the side characters! They all had a lot of depth. Overall this was a very addicting story and I'm excited to pick up the sequel.
[image error][image error]Oh… this made me love Kai more than I did yesterday and the day before that and… You Guys should READ IT NOW!Thx Wendy for this gift!
Mostly goody heroines I found are dull, flat, and boring, but that’s not Anna Whitt.Anna’s character is so realistic.
She loves him so much and it makes me love Kai so much, as well.Anna is Lovely and AWESOME..
Nobody could take those things away.’I know Kai cares about Anna so much.I utterly love Kaidan so much like Anna does.When I first knew what job Kai is, I was shocked.
One word can sum up this whole book for me: Captivating As I started this book I thought it be about an angel falling in love, Wendy Higgins quickly throws anything I might of had about this book out the window and created an amazing tale of a young Nephilim, Anna Whitt, who doesn't know what she is, only that her senses are super hype, and she's able to see and feel emotions.
Anna comes across as someone naive and maybe a little goody-two shoes, but it fits her, the kindness, and love she gives builds the strength she needs in order to face some pretty nasty demons and things that could break anyone's heart and turn them into the negative side of life.
"I was in love with him. And there wasn't a thing on earth, in heaven, or in hell that could have stopped me."  Can I start this review by saying that I'm totally fangirling right now? I love it so much! And I therefore conclude that Kaidan Rowe is my new book boyfriend!Oh my God.. It's so hard to think of better words to describe my feelings for this book. First off, I really had high expectations with it since it has high ratings here in GR. Guess what? It actually exceeded my expectations. I
And I therefore conclude that Kaidan Rowe is my new book boyfriend!Oh my God..
It's so hard to think of better words to describe my feelings for this book.
First off, I really had high expectations with it since it has high ratings here in GR.
I love the premise and how Ms. Wendy Higgins created such a brilliant and challenging spiritual concept about angels and demons.
Another thing that I particularly love about this book is the characters.
And Anna Whitt-- well, I really love her character.
They're badass characters!As a whole, this book is phenomenal.
Couldn't stop thinking about this book.
What a fantastic way to end the year. :'/
*swoon*I was really impressed with the originality of the story, and the various things Wendy Higgins brought to this novel, whether that be the complexity behind the world/culture or simply the seven deadly sins take.I cannot wait to see what the rest of this trilogy has to offer, and what the heck is going to happen between Kaidan and Anna!
