https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953663.Crawling_Chaos
The Crawling ChaosBy Elizabeth Berkeley and Lewis Theobald, Jun.[Winifred Virginia Jackson and H. P. Lovecraft]This is a dream that Jackson had and Lovecraft wrote down. It is not about Nyarlathotep though.It starts with an accidental opium overdose and it turns into an apocalyptic vision. The narrator witnesses the destruction of the whole world. You never know what is next because you are at the mercy of whatever the narrator experiences.
You love him or you hate him. I think this is my top Lovecraft anthology. All my favorite tales in one book. Dreams In The Witchhouse and The Hound amongst others.Does exactly what it says on the tin.Read it and then start dropping "eldritch" and "squamous" into conversation.
I was unimpressed at the start of this anthology, possibly because the things HPL did wrote in the 1920s have reached me via popular culture before reading this.
Another possibility is that I didn't enjoy a lot of the stories because most of his characters are either flat, aren't believably human or are plain unlikable.
It might also have to do with the repetitiveness of his prose from one story to the next.And yet as I got further into this, I found more to like, more stuff that actually started feeling like it might be scary and more varied occurrences than just "dark rituals" and "unfathomable evil".
The entry for this book (ASIN B00815UE0C) is misleading.
It says it is well over 300 pages long.
With this edition from Acheron Press, all you get is the single short and three pictures.The short story will not disappoint any fan of Lovecraft.
The only reason I only gave it two stars is the fact that this edition said it was over 300 pages long when it was really closer to 15 pages.
There are others books out there with similar titles, so just be careful when choosing which one to download.
Go with the one that says 'and other stories' if you want the real collection.
Como siempre Lovecraft uno de los mayores exponentes de la literatura del terror. Lo innombrable, lo indescriptible y lo siniestro siempre están presentes en sus obras. Muy recomendable.
Short stories from fifteen years of Lovecraft's career.
The tales often reveal the obsessive nature of Lovecraft's mythology through repetition that can sometimes feel tiresome, but his imagination is darker and more fertile than many literary masters.
We dismiss these too easily by claiming an artist is of their time, but the racism in these works is as shocking and grotesque as any of his fantastical monsters.
Women are pretty much as absent from his work as it seems they were from his life and we are left with a spiralling, nightmarish terror of everyone and everything that feels violently claustrophobic when read over a short period.
this is yet another anthology of Lovecraft's work however this is a one of the better collections of his work (there are so many out there all with similar and in some cases the same title so making it very difficult to decipher which is worth reading and which is not).
My only compliant about this books is its type face and layout - double columns for no real reason makes it difficult to read and concentrate and in the case of the centre pages not destroying the book.
This story is a collaboration between Winifred Jackson, and H.
The idea behind the story is quite simple: drugs are gateway to the world of (possibly prescient) visions.
After "establishing" the fact quoting previous work by renown artists like Baudelaire, the narrator starts telling his story.
He never used drugs, but once, during the year of the plague, an overworked doctor administer him an (unintendedly large) dose of opium that triggers prescient vision of the end of the world.I was not impressed: the pace is slow, there is not really much plot to give the story any substance, and the "visions" turns boring soon.
Nice imagery of the destroyed world, but ended before the horror in the rift actually appeared. Don't know which would have been more atmospheric - knowing or not knowing, though given the theme of people being unable to comprehend the reality of their place in the universe I suppose Lovecraft couldn't have shown us what was inside and remain true to his mythos (despite being shown actual horrors in other stories...)
I think this is the third time I've read this book, the first taking place around some good six or seven years. I have to say this last time was the one I enjoyed it the most. Once you get over youth's search of sensationalistic horror you learn to appreciate the subtleness of Lovecraft's writing.A good introduction to the author's work, presenting the reader with a nice range of short stories so you'll probably find one to your liking.
The edition I read was the short story only, "The Crawling Chaos" from 1921. In it, the narrator hallucinates from an overdose of opium accidentally administered by a doctor, and witnesses the destruction of pretty much everything, Mother Earth included. A lucid H.P. is some deep, scary shit. H.P. on drugs boggles the mind.
A good collection of Lovecraft's short stories. I actually read this in three sections, because while I really enjoyed them, I couldn't read them all at once. I'm glad to have seen more of the Cthulhu mythos, though. Very interesting stuff.
One of the first Lovecraft stories that I have read.. Very intriguing, I am captivated by his word choices and the way in which he describes scenes where it is clear but not so clear that it is stated for you. Yes, a very intriguing tale. I look forward to what the next tale has in store for me.
It been a couple of short stories of H.P. Lovecraft and at the end of each one I am left wanting more. I simply love is writing style and his way with description.
La narrativa de Lovecraft, bien solo o en colaboraciones, destaca en esta serie.
Horror / fantasy tales by H.P. Lovecraft.
This was, as I recall, a gift from a friend, himself a writer of fantastical and horror fiction. Some of the stories I'd read before, but some seemed new.
Don't do drugs kids.
Great collection of Lovecraft classics, missing some obvious ones though (No Mountains of Madness? For shame)
Am Anfang ein bisschen schleppend. Die letzte der 12 Geschichten, die ein Drittel des gesamten Buches ausmachte, war definitiv die beste. Aber kein Cthulhu :( Man hatte mir Cthulhu versprochen.
Short and classy.While not what I was expecting given its name, it was still a haunting scene. Short enough to read slow to really drink in the words.
* Sustancias: Opio.
Fascinating to read the origin story for the Cthulu cult, however, the prose were very dense and yet not descriptive and the story lacked intrigue.
Um homem conta suas vívidas alucinações após uma overdose de ópio.
Releído y me maravilla este viaje sideral, como si estuvieras totalmente drogado. Droga pura. Y no, no es Nyarlathotep. :D
Lovecraft. 'Nuff said.
Reading this for book club, never read any Lovecraft before. I've never seen a more hostile preface and introduction to a collection.
the Lovecraft Vocabulary Word Of The Day is: "athwart".
Another fine collection of Lovecraft's work.
