https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147586.Reach_for_the_Sky
I still have it on my bookshelves, and the sight of where she cut off the corner of the paper cover, where the price had been, with her pinking shears, brings back fond memories.As for the book: it is the inspirational true story of WWII RAF fighter pilot, Group Captain Sir Douglas (Dogsbody) Bader CBE, DSO & Bar, DFC & Bar, FRAeS, DL.Despite losing both his legs during peacetime, he signed up again when the Second World War broke out, and flew Hurricanes and Spitfires in the Battles of France and Britain.
Quite simply - a brilliantly told story about a brilliant man.
An inspirational, fantastic book!This book describes Douglas Bader's life as a child, through school, to RAF Cranwell (pilot training school), his accident, recovery, back to civvy street, back in to the RAF and pitting himself successfully against the Germans, his exploits as a prisoner of war and some of his post war occupations/experiences.And most of the above was carried out without any legs!It is quite staggering what he achieved.
A biography of a World War 2 pilot is not what I'd normally read, however my grandfather was a huge admirer of Douglas Bader and was his wingman as a late replacement for Alan Smith, when the legless legend was shot down on the 9th of August, 1941.
My late grandfather, Jeff West, included his participation and observation of this particular event as follows in his 5 year war recordings, which I have recently transcribed, and will release in August.
He spun down & pieces fell off – seen by yellow section.
Went round to Royal Oak. Laid flare path in rain.
"Reach for The Sky", Paul Brickhill, 1954.
Obviously Brickhill worked closely with Douglas Bader while writing his biography.
He then crashes another Spitfire while attempting to land in fog.
Bader quickly became a high scoring ace.
They offer to allow the British to fly in another pair of wood legs.
Luftwauffe ace Adolph Galland introduces him to Germany's top fighter pilots over dinner and champagne.
"Reach for The Sky" became a best seller in 1954 and later was made in to a motion picture which made author Paul Brickhill fairly wealthy.
Rumor has it that Douglas Bader was contemptuous of Brickhill's financial success.
Not just a World War Two epic, documenting the incredible Battle of Britain exploits of Wing Commander Douglas Barder, but one of the most intimate biographies produced by Paul Brickhill, himself an Australian fighter pilot shot down and taken prisoner to Stalag Luft III, which produced 'The Great Escape' in 1949.
He was also the author of other WWII classics as 'The Dam Busters', 'Escape or Die' as well as 'Reach for the Sky' from 1954.How many times have I watched the films made from these publications?
Simply amazing!
A good and interesting read.
It tells the story of Douglas Bader a British ace who lost both legs as a result of some aerobatics in a plane crash in 1931.
Despite his incredible disability, when England declared war on Nazi Germany, Douglas convinced the British RAF to recommission him as a flyer in September 1939.
Commanding many different squadrons, Captain Bader flew both hurricanes and spitfires for the RAF throughout the Battle of Britain.
Given what Captain Douglas Bader contributed to the British Air Force, his courage embodies the spirit of a group of men who stood up to the Nazis and bravely defended their island nation.
Great though I think the film is, books usually contain a little more detail and that is true here. Brickhill tells an amazing story very well, with just the right mix of action, suspense, humour and literary style. As he also wrote the Great Escape and the Dambusters, he clearly knows his onions yet never bogs the story down with detail or jargon. This ought to be on the school curriculum in UK. Quite brilliant. 5/5
This is the remarkable story of Douglas Bader, an RAF pilot during the Second World War who became an ace despite having lost both legs in an airplane crash. The fighter tactics he devised helped win the Battle of Britain. A stirring and inspiring story of triumph over adversity.
An inspiring story of a man overcoming having both his legs amputated to become a fighter pilot. He even escapes from the Nazis. He is an inspiration and a bit of a jerk. He seems like an actual, living, breathing person. Well written and fun to read.
The story itself is amazing and remarkable. The writing is a little dry and lots of unfamiliar war terms that were hard to follow. Overall inspirational, particularly for anyone overcoming adversity.
My copy is published in this year (1954) but by Collins. Dust cover looks like that shown. A classic biography - of a different time but one we should remember an evaluate for ourselves. Read the book even if you have seen the film.
How someone is able to overcome adversity and achieve their dreams and be a great example to others
Read this one years ago, great inspirational true story about a World War II pilot with 2 tin legs!
Life Story of Douglas Bader - hero who, without legs, became a WW2 fighter pilot - went on to accomplish great achievements in his life - very inspirational.
Loved it I read it when I was 13 it inspired my lifelong love of aviation
Listened on audio. An oldie but a goodie! Well told tale of a man fighting to overcome all odds, with details of actual battles and other real events in WW2 told from an individual's point of view.
Magnificent story of tenacity, stubbornness and courage.
At times considered rigid and foolhardy, his men admired him for the aura of will-power and self-confidence that surrounded him.
But as Brickhill says, he was 'too practical for self-pity' and simply got on with making the most of his situation.So, even though the tenor of the book may be in some ways out of step with today's readers, it is still a fascinating account of an impressive individual.
A book which I would consider a classic, and essential reading for anyone interested in World War Two military aviation.
The story of Douglas Bader is one of those that "you just couldn't make up." I have known the story since early childhood, having watched the film starring Kenneth More at least ten times.Reading the book gives a bit more context to Bader's story.
Even though you know he'll survive, the early part of the book describing the crash and Bader on the brink of death in hospital has your heart racing.
Reach for the Sky is a real life story about Douglas Bader, man who lost both of his legs in flying accident and still became one of the greatest pilots in the world.
His journey through all the difficulties and his time in German prisons would be worth to read even without him losing both of his legs, but that makes it even more important.Douglas Bader gives important lesson to everyone about the willpower.
That's the lesson we all should learn, we shouldn't let anyone else tell us what we can and what we can't do.The Author, Paul Brickhill, is a pilot himself.
The Incredible Story of Douglas Bader – the Legless Ace. Is it possible for someone without legs to be a fighter pilot, let alone doing anything physical?
The most amazing thing I find about when Douglas Bader lost his legs in an air crash, was his reaction.
Brickhill’s account of the golf and Thelma stories is amazing.Bader kept on banging on at the RAF to let him fly, and he finally got his chance when WW2 started.
Told he would never walk without a cane, Bader learned to dance, swim, golf, and play tennis.
Told he would never fly again, he became not only one of the RAF's top combat pilots but a squadron leader and innovator of fighter tactics that helped win the Battle of Britain.
After the Battle of Britain, he was shot down over France and spent over 3 years in various German POW camps, finally ending up in the infamous Kolditz POW as punishment for a succession of escape attempts from other camps.
The first time in my teenage years.
Each time I read this book I am overwhelmed by the Boy's Own enthusiasm that pervaded my early youth.
But this reading was different.
There is so much of the history of the Battle of Britain that I did not know at the time of my earlier readings.
With a better understanding of Leigh-Mallory's "big wing" theory, and Bader's part in it, made very interesting reading.
Regardless, Bader's story is written in captivating style by Brickhall and still manages to excite this poor, brain-washed Colonial time and again.
I think I've read most of Paul Brickhill's books, The Wooden Horse, the Great Escape etc.
It makes for fascinating reading, and if truth is stranger than fiction if you went to George Lucas or whoever the hottest director in Hollywood is these days and said: 'Hi guys I've got a screenplay about this guy with no legs who leads a bunch of disheartened Canadian pilots as well as heads up squadrons of Spitfires; gets shot down over France and then even though the Germans take his tin legs away every night still plots to escape from Colditz' you'd be told to tone things down a little.
The fact that Paul Brickhill allows so little of his own narrative to creep in makes this story so compelling and authorative.
Losing both the legs and embracing life is a testimony of strong will power and self belief and then going to war for defending the country seems biblical.
Douglas Bader's story is stuff of a legend.
Always cheerful he endured disability, war , leadership challenges and then prisoner's life with charm and dignity.
The character had such a persona that everybody around him felt charged up....his friends, squadron mates and even the enemies.
His wing men felt invinsible to have Wg Cdr. Bader fly with them.
His biggest secret was the desire to prove himself (from childhood to the day he lost his legs).
The third of my top three must-read books.
Paul Brickhill's understated word-crafting has not dimmed despite the decades since he wrote this.
There have been several other notable biographies of Bader's life since, but none come close to this inspirational masterpiece.Even in the 1950s Bader's legend as the legless master fighter commander was under threat from those who saw him as intractable and too domineering.
Brickhill's work still does a better job of undermining those challenges than more recent works.
To the criticisms that it reads too much like a 'boys own' comic, the reality is that Bader WAS a larger than life hero, who polarised opinions simply by being in the same room!
I found Bader so unlikeable, that I couldn't hardly stand it.
I also couldn't stand the writing, which felt distancing on the one point and had TOO many details about the air fights.I appreciate that he overcame many obstacles.One distinct disadvantage this book has compared to say Unbroken (which also features a pretty unlikeable main character - at least in the beginning) is that it was written in the 1950s, when Bader hadn't yet lived the rest of his life.
Interesting enough story; I am glad to know of Bader, but I doubt I would recommend it to many.
