https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/711901.Lone_Survivor
But again, he himself says the book is supposed to be about the bravery of his teammates.The rest of the book is about Marcus bravely evading capture - barely mentioning his friends, until he comes to the end where he talks about how he very graciously tours the country comforting the families of his lost teammates.
Again, it's an admirable thing to do, but it seems like he's pointing out the fact that it was an admirable thing to do.And while he bravely evaded his trackers for one night, he is also taken in by an incredibly brave Afghan village, who protect him from the Taliban forces in the face of terrifying threats.
Except for the last part of the book, the part that details the actual operation and its heartbreaking aftermath, Luttrell's "Lone Survivor" manages to turn what should have been a fascinating account of Navy SEAL training and operations into one of the most annoying, propagandistic and sleep-inducing chronicles of push-ups and special ops ever written.
Most war memoirs draw you into the life of the storyteller, but you plod your way through the first two-thirds of this book thinking, "enough already—let’s hear about the mission!" Perhaps some of the blame should go to Patrick Robinson, a mediocre war novelist who apparently did most of the actual writing.
Second, don't say that you told a mother her son died quickly and not in pain and then write in detail how agonizing and how long his death took.Third: The first thing we did in planning for a Special Operations mission anywhere in the world was to discuss how we were going to handle being discovered by the locals.
The shame is all those brave men who jumped on that rescue helicopter died because the original team failed to do basic, rudimentary planning for their mission.
I have tremendous respect for SEALs. Of all Special Operations Forces, they are by far the most physically fit.
This was our book club pick for this month.
This book should be required reading for every American.
I have since scoured the Internet trying to learn as much as I can about Operation Redwing and it's heroes.This is not the kind of book I would normally pick up and read.
In fact, I had it on the counter and when Tyler came home and he thanked me for picking him out a great book from the library.
He couldn't believe we were reading it for book club.
He even proudly been told the guys at work what book his wife was reading.
I actually decided I wanted to be a Navy SEAL after reading this book, plus I wanted to go hunt Taliban guys.
If it makes me want to be part of the action, it's good.You could tell he wasn't a professional writer as you read through the book, as the writing wasn't all smooth and flowy-esque.
Nope, it was written just like a military hero awesome guy would write it.
Rather than being a great book because of how well it was written, it is an amazing book because of the story it tells.
Oh my gosh Navy SEALS are so awesome and cool!!
In late June 2005, I had just been stationed in Denver, CO for only a few months and I remember hearing about Petty Officer Luttrell and his SEAL team ambushed and calling for assistance during a dangerous capture/kill mission.
I would also hope that everyone--whether for or against the war--can read this and understand what it is our military must face.
Bottom line: if we continue to go to war, then the American public and the politicians need to give the military the means to win.
The second half of this book was impossible to put down - I was so caught up in the description of Operation Redwing.
It was truly amazing and I will never think about our military in the same way again, even though I've always had a high opinion of the men and women fighting for our country.
There was some slower reading in the first half, although it was still totally fascinating.
I think everyone should read this book.
I want my kids to read it...the faith and integrity of the men in this book is something our country needs more of.
When you read further and "open your mind" (isn't that a favorite phrase of liberals?), it becomes very clear how Luttrell formed his opinions and solidified them on the battlefield.
If some had no pride in their liberal views, some wouldn't be writing bad reviews on an otherwise great book.
At times it's painful to read, at times you will laugh out loud, at times you will get angry, and you will cry no matter how tough you think you are, but when it's all said and done, you will feel like you just lived through these events alongside Luttrell.
An interesting book dealing with the training of Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell, his deployment in Afghanistan, his ordeal as the lone survivor of a combat mission, and how he is taken in by an Afghani village that stands up to the Taliban.
His proclamations that the war in Afghanistan could be easily won if we just unleashed more American power is belied by the the actual story he tells of how the Taliban could not survive if they did not have the help of the Pashtun natives of the region.
He seems totally indifferent to what could cause some villagers to assist an American and others to fight them, and that possibly therein lies an answer to help ending the war.
This is one of those powerful life-changing books that will speak to generations of Americans forever.
Our family’s Holy Rosary, and my own daily prayers, are offered for those who serve, for their families, specifically for fellow Texan, Marcus Luttrell, the author of this book, and for all Navy SEALs. My desire to know more about these extraordinary patriots catapulted my literary/personal journey into our Nation’s military experience as recorded by those who have chosen to serve.
Yet there is no greater power than love.
“Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends” John 15:13May God bless and protect our Nation’s Warriors.
I read some great reviews of this book and I, like others who have reviewed this book in a less than glowing light, should add that I have nothing but admiration and respect for every soldier who puts his life on the line for Country, comrades and frankly for me.
This story is inspirational and the survival of Luttrell is testament to his toughness.So this review is not personal, is not meant to decry anything that he or his fellow SEALs stand for or did in this theatre of operation or generally.This is a dreadful book.
This in no manner conceptualizes the essence and true madness of war.
As a veteran military officer, It frightens me that our young service member read this crap as opposed to novels which really bring to life the true horrors of war.
This mindless drab offers nothing in the way of an empirical study of war.
Early in 1963, right around the time U.S Army HELO pilots were first being used surreptitiously in combat, Admiral Harry Felt lambasted an Associated Press reporter when asked a tough question about the South Vietnamese (3 Americans were killed) failure at the Battle of Ap Bac in 1963; he exclaimed to the reporter, "Get on the team!" It's quite apparent we haven't learned everything we could from that dreadful experience.
That would have allowed his story to stand on its own and also allowed him to draw from that story in his final argument.The other thing I did not like so much about the book was the lack of personal growth I saw in Luttrell.
And there are many places where he could have reflected on this.Unfortunately, I believe Luttrell falls prey to a symptom that many military personnel experience, gameness.
He even referenced this in the final chapter of the book, though again, he did not reflect on it.
I wish Luttrell and others would be able to see this after their difficult experiences.
It's hard to say how I feel about this book.
If I say that the author sounded like a puffed up meathead, then I sound un-patriotic.
One part of the book truly bothered me, no, agitated me.
He, at the turning point of his (true) story, said that they had only two choices: to kill the people who were going to report them to the Taliban, or let them go, but there was another choice.
He colored his friends with broad, patriotic brushstrokes, but didn't give nearly the credit due to the people who actually saved his life, the Afghani villagers.
Marcus Luttrell is a believer.
That's a Vietnam era term for a person who believes in the cause.
They also believe that might makes right and my country right or wrong.
Apparently he never stops to think that we back home, the tax payers that have to foot the bill for this stupid war, have the right to know what is going on within our military.
Never does he question the reason for his war against these Afghani people.
His friends died and he suffered because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time for the wrong reason.
As a former Army medic and the spouse of an Army Ranger who was actually on the mission that saved this "Great American" who is the lone survivor because he was looking out for himself not his comrades.
I barely made it past the introduction of him boasting about how Navy Seals are all but Godly beings.
I have nothing against Navy Seals or any other service member who puts their lives on the line.
It simply sickens me that this coward has made so much money off of Americans who don't know the real story...
In fact other than the common reading of things like The Diary of Anne Frank as a kid and maybe Confessions by Madonna, I've had had little to no interest in any kind of biography or Non-fiction books, ever.
There are brave men and women who defend your sacred rights that you take advantage of every day!".Marcus Luttrell and the other members of SEAL team 10 are not like other Americans.
We are removed from the simple fact that we EARNED our American way by individuals like Marcus Luttrell and his fellow SEALS who risked an gave their lives for our way of life.
A lot of people say and agree that this book was horrible.
They think that Luttrell may have been through a lot in is brave, however his writing skills are not the best.
I agree, but I knew this before I started reading.
I read this book to understand what Marcus went through and the experience of being a seal.
He did an amazing job at that and that is what he should have done.
Males would typically like this book more, however plenty of females that like sad, touching stories would like this too.
I had heard that Marcus Luttrell was the Lone Survivor of his SEAL team, but I had no idea of how miraculous his survival was.
I also didn't realize how much the team's fear of a vicious liberal media made in this tragedy.
I wish that our fighting men and women didn't have to fear our own people.
Granted, there need to be rules and limitations, but because these men feared what would happen to them when they got home, they released prisoners that gave away their position and got them killed.
What a tragedy.
It was written by a Navy SEAL who was the lone survivor (hence the title) in an Afghanistan raid.
I loved this book because Marcus shows us how he was destined to be a Navy Seal from his boyhood.
He, along with his twin brother, survived the brutal training the Navy puts these guys through to weed out the weak.
They were Navy SEALS and they could accomplish anything, right?
Although you know as you read it that Marcus, the author, survives, you just can't believe he's going to.
This has to be one of the all-time great survival stories.
A five man SEAL team undertook a mission in Afghanistan.
Five days later, the lone survivor,Petty Officer Marcus Luttrell emerged battered,bruised and broken after being sheltered by village locals.
The details of the mission and the deaths of his teammates was gut wrenching, so hard for me to read.
Again, being the only survivor, this is his story, his perspective.
I have read many reviews of this young soldier's story.
But this is his story, his memories of a horrific experience.He is the one who to this day lives with the screams of his team mate echoing in his brain.
That'd sum this book up.
Be best for foreign relations if this book had never left US shores...
But he manages to come off as an utter tool.I read military books like they're going out of fashion, and usually am able to relate.
If not, then the American military has a lot to answer for continuing to arming these blundering idiots.
He certainly adds "special" to "Special Forces".His moaning and whining about the various "problems" as he sees them becomes extremely irksome.
His answers to these perceived problems are probably best not mentioned.
"Moaning Twit" might be a better title.
Didn't expect to think so highly of this.
It is another SEAL memoir of BUD/S and war.
And the edition I saw has a few technical errors (e.g., saying Bahrain is west of Saudi Arabia and the C-130 has Boeing engines).
But this is the best SEAL memoir of the current war I have read.
Once the team is inserted, the co-authors deliver a raw, detailed, picture of the men's courage in a nasty, no-win fight.
If unapologetic American military pride and patriotism make you uneasy, don't bother reading it.
And if the liberal media and political community cannot accept that sometimes the wrong people get killed in war, then I can only suggest they first grow up and then serve a short stint up in the Hindu Kush."I'm not a soldier, and I can see how someone like Luttrell who is, and has suffered for that trade, would dismiss my views, saying I have no idea what I'm talking about because I haven't been in those boots.
The Lone Survivor, by Marcus Luttrell, is a compelling story of four navy SEALS and their beginning and finish. The book commences by telling the story of a young man who grew up to be a navy SEAL and the basic training that he endured. It amazes me that humans can actually make it through that type of strenuous training. The first part of the book is about the training and you would think that it couldn’t get worse, but it does. While the second half takes you through a disturbing battle that
The book commences by telling the story of a young man who grew up to be a navy SEAL and the basic training that he endured.
It amazes me that humans can actually make it through that type of strenuous training.
The first part of the book is about the training and you would think that it couldn’t get worse, but it does.
Reading this fills me with humility and gratitude for the sacrifice that all the members of our armed services make on our behalf, but especially for the men of the SEAL teams.
You hear stories about people like this on the news, but nothing they say can really do the man or situation he was put in justice.
I laughted and cried and threw the book down a few times in frustration for the situation that this country puts American soldiers in.
Soldiers should not have to ask permission to protect themselves, and this very situation cost many of them their lives.
This is a fantastic book and should become reccomended reading for all people who call themselves patriots of the USA.
The one that stands out the most to me is when they’re about to begin the firefight that will ultimately result in the death of his teammates, and he says “How did the liberals feel about my position?” Is this guy for real?
Roughly 100 pages are dedicated to Operation Redwing, the death of his friends, and how the liberals were responsible.
If you’re looking for a book that does justice to the brave actions of SEAL Team 10, I’m afraid this isn’t it.
arbitrary on the side of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, who aren't required to live by any rules of engagement and never suffer the wrath of the media for anything they do.
Although not professionally written, and laced with profanity (which I will excuse, coming from someone whose heart is in the right place) I found the entire book fascinating, from his training to his mission and all of his so-called "rants." If you want a book that tells an unvarnished story of modern-day heroism, this book is for you.
I have read reviews that say, "Luttrell's story of survival is amazing, and for that alone, this book should get 5 stars." I disagree.
Perhaps the movie is a better format for getting his story out.The first half of the book was all about SEAL training.
There was just too much arrogance, bravado, politics, and poor writing getting in the way of the story telling.There are so many better books out there about the war in Afghanistan if you are wanting to read a book on the subject.
Lone Survivor is getting too many stars and positive reviews for the story within the book and not the book itself.
She says there's no way (from the intelligence she discerned in a week of dating) he could have written this book, which includes French phrases and plausable-sounding summaries of Pashtun history and culture.
Therre is an "as told to" co-author so give that guy credit.Nonetheless this is a great adventure/rescue/tragedy written by someone who believes what George Bush tells him.
I'd put it up there with A Thousand Splendid Suns or the book by Rory something (someboddy hep me here) about walking across Afghanistan as a culture journey, or somewhat perverse armchair traveler.Hey it's, what, 10:45 pm, just read the dang thing when you're done with Interpreter of Traveling Pants.
