https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6505013-the-moon-bog
Since the occasion was a St. Patrick's Day Dinner, the setting of the story was Irish--a place Lovecraft had little knowledge of, and less sympathy for.This tale about a man (Denys Barry) who purchases his family's ancestral estate and is subsequently punished by the neighboring spooks for having the temerity to drain their beloved bog is as close to a conventional ghost story as anything H.P. ever wrote, and it is not a very good ghost story either.
David Vincent, Trey Azagthoth, Ronnie James Dio, Van Morrison and Christopher Lee sit in an outdoor café in Limbo having drinks and discussing H.P. Lovecraft’s 1926 short story “The Moon Bog”Lee: The last time I was in Ireland, before I died, I made a special visit to the bog areas and was impressed by the surreal, mystical qualities the wilderness produced and am not at all surprised that Lovecraft found inspiration here.Dio: Lovecraft knew how to draw from most any setting a sense of primal dread and pre-historic, pre knowledge unease.
The narrator visits his friend, Denys Barry, in Ireland. Barry has problems with the help. Locals don't want to stay and work for him because he wants to drain the bog near his ancestral castle. Of course the two friends laugh at their superstitious nonsense.This being Lovecraft, you know this won't end quite the way Barry wishes. source
I felt this one could have been better given the interesting premise and setting. Felt kind of like an M.R. James story.
Great atmosphere and imagery. The story isn't all that memorable tho. Not my favorite Lovecraft.
In Soviet Russia you don't drain the bog, the bog drains you.
For me this one of Lovecraft's more forgettable tales. He takes the ancestral estate element of this story and uses it to much better effect in The Rats in the Walls.
Listen to the traditions and warnings of locals, they may know more than you think.
Messy as in a let's-throw-evereything-but-the-kitchen-sink-into-this-short-ghost-story-and-see-where-it-goes messy.Our nameless narrator, a traditional Howie character, travels to Ireland (!) to visit his friend.
His friend, against the advice of the locals who have all but deserted their village on this account, has decided to drain the bog that surrounds his ancestral estate.
As is well known, and especially in tales such as these, it bodes ill not to heed the advice of the locals.
So we have nameless narrators, hapless friends, a swampy bog in Ireland, legends of an ancient Grecian city in the bog water, dreams of shadowy bog people, lute and flute and pipe playing, and the inevitable frogs at the end.
Деніс Баррі викупив старий родинний маєток в Ірландії і переїхав туди з Америки. Цей маєток оточували мальовничі болота, але Баррі не надто любив, коли земля ніяк не використовується, і вирішив осушити болото. Після цього селяни і слуги пішли геть. Їх непокоїли давні моторошні легенди про руїни на далекому острові посеред болота. Баррі довелося запросити робітників з інших країв, але ті припинили висипатися. Виявилося, що приїжджі робітники в ночі танцюють на болоті з нечистими силами, а вранці забувають про це.
Ah, this was fun. Lovecraft's prose was less annoying than it usually is, and I loved the ending: (view spoiler)[Cute little frogs, living forever in the bog. (hide spoiler)] Less Mythos-y than some, but also with no overtly problematic biases (though the historical details are questionable, at best). Recommended.
(view spoiler)[Do not mess with Artemis either (hide spoiler)], apparently. Not even in Ireland. At least we get to see the horrific thing happen this time.(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
Don't mess with ancient bogs!
David Lynch said we need to plunge deeper to fish bigger fish, Lovecraft’s solution is to drain the bog.
I liked this story
7/10
3 poslední odstavce to trochu ubily. Damn you Howard
The atmosphere and setting is phenomenal, but the main plot could have used more time to brew.
I’ve read that Lovecraft wrote this in haste as he needed to meet a certain deadline, and the haste is very evident.
This could have been one of his best short stories up there with Dagon.
The imagery and setting is there, but the characterization and finale is a bit lacking.
Still very good when compared to many of his early works.
Draining the bog where superstitious legends haunt its grounds is never a good idea in a Lovecraft story.
In this early Lovecraft story the narrator visits an old friend in Ireland.
Denys Barry made a fortune in America, which he is using to restore his ancestral home in Kilderry.
Locals approve at first, but by the time of narrator's visit, they've all deserted the village.
The reason of the rapid departure, is that Barry plans to drain the great bog by his castle, and has no patience for cautionary legends about its grim guardian spirit and the ancient stone city that sleeps beneath the red heathed morass.Many of the plot points will be re-used, expended and developed in later work.
Denys Barry, successful in the U.S., returns to his home in Ireland and buys his ancestral castle in (fictional) Kilderry. But his whole problem is the bog. When he wants to drain it, the locals refuse to help and depart, telling him somethings should remain as they are, that the bog is sacred to the moon-goddess, who protected her people long ago. But Barry, and his friend from America laugh.Please read the full review here.
I really enjoyed this - a tale of the "old country", with some nicely built tension.It's formulaic certainly, a dire warning goes unheeded, with catastrophic consequences.The scenes are evoked will skill and atmosphere, drawing you in to the hypnotic quality within the story.Lovecraft always seems to find a neat escape for his narrator, but leaves a chilling thought that lingers in your mind.
This is a nice peice of horror, though it doesn't stand up to some of the other work Lovecraft has done. It is erie and there is an excellent creepiness about the whole story. However, I think it is somewhat anticlimactic.
Odd story about a guy who wants to drain a bog in the process of restoring his ancestral home, but is prevented by an age-old curse. I felt that the pieces didn't really hang together quite as well in this as in others.
Short, sweet, spooky and mesmerizing.
Eventos estranhos que acontecem quando o dono de uma propriedade resolve drenar o pântano em busca de riquezas.
"The Moon Bog" is short, sweet, and very intense--definitely one of Lovecraft shorts.
Meh. Not actually creepy at all. Perhaps it is the way my mind works, but it filled in all the science behind the symptoms of this "nightmare", instead of fear.
Lovecraft writing unconvincingly about Ireland. Good fun.
Listened it through the Stuff You Should Know podcast.
I have arranged my thoughts on this wonderfully creepy short story into a haiku:"All music and dance,The fey take no prisonersWhen their games get old."
