https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11446.Will_You_Please_Be_Quiet_Please_
Infatti, sulla quarta dell’edizione Einaudi si legge: Con l’uscita nel 1976 di ‘Vuoi star zitta per favore?’, la prima raccolta di Raymond Carver, s’imprimeva una svolta irreversibile nell’idea di short story e, presto, nell’intero panorama letterario americano.Poi, s’è parlato di minimalismo, una delle più insulse e ridicole correnti letterarie, e forse anche del tutto inventate.
E, insomma, con questa mania del minimalismo, s’è provato a ingabbiarlo, appiccicargli un’etichetta, che si sa, con l’etichetta tutto sembra meno speciale, meno unico.Tom Waits e Lily Tomlin nell’episodio tratto dal racconto ‘Loro non sono tuo marito’.Leggo le sue storie e mi dico, ma che brutta gente, piena di difetti, meschinità, grettezza, aridità, miseria, è gente piccola piccola.
I mourn that it took me this long to discover him and now I must get my little claws on everything Carver asap.How the heck can a writer capture so much power into super-short stories.
Each one is a stand alone masterpiece with so much authenticity and sense of reality and yet, they are all small perfect little dreams of sadness.
All the characters are mourning themselves, they're all hurting so beautifully.I re-read several of these stories already and will tuck this gem away to re-read forever.Stand outs: “They’re Not your Husband” - Just the imagery alone is so tangible and delightful.
This was a mini Yates story.The writing is haunting and soaked in a sense of foreboding.
My wariness of short stories stems from reading too many undeveloped or overwrought examples of it; Carver, however, is the king of cramming years of quiet suffering into an eight-page story, of building agonizing suspense in a matter of lines, of making the reader feel every aching pang of every one of his characters.
It's a morbid celebration of how all these tiny moments comprise the bigger picture and determine the trajectory of a life.The juxtaposition of the stories' unusual focal points (chopping wood, aimless wandering, awkward small talk) against very relatable troubles (children's skirmishes that call for adults' intervention, unhappy marriages, occupational dissatisfaction, feeling like the American Dream is always juuuuust out of reach) is the best kind of understatement.
Raymond Carver'a ilk Fil ile başlamıştım.
Benim gibi bir ölümlünün bu isimlere laf söylemesi pek taraftar bulmayacaktır.
Bu sebepten de bu kitapla Carver'a yeni bir şans vermek istedim, hazır kitap elimdeyken.
Bu kitap da, Fil gibi evli çiftlerle dolu, ama başka şeyler de var.
Kısa öykülerdeki boşluklar ve geçişler de benim için lezzet yerleridir.
O zaman öyküyü daha çok seviyorum, samimi ve sıcak buluyorum.
Fil'de bu duyguları pek yakalayamamıştım.
Mesela bu kitapta misafirliğe gidenler çok oluyordu ve misafirlikte samimi bir atmosfer yaşanıyordu.
"Hey dostum kendine bir içki koysana" demekten çok "bir çay koyayım deniyordu." Alaska'da Ne Var?
Bir çok insanın başına gelen ve tedirginlik yaratan bir durum.
Had to drive a bit and I just happened to see this as an audiobook edition of the collection from a master short story writer, one of the best ever, imo; he is sometimes referred to disparagingly as a "K-mart realist." In other words, a working class writer, writing about the down and out.
Like watching a slow motion car crash.The point in most of these stories is that most of these people will now change, and not usually for the best.
They begin to enjoy the feeling of voyeurism and begin to hope: One says, “Maybe they won’t come back.” “The Idea” - A couple spies on a man who spies on his own wife from his garden.
“Night School” - A man is out of work and living with his parents.
“Put yourself in my Shoes” - Coming back from an office party, a couple are interrogated and insulted in a strange meeting with their landlord and his wife.
At home one man fails to use the opportunity to have sex with his wife.
Hình như không có truyện ngắn nào trong cả tập truyện này là một câu chuyện hạnh phúc hay khiến người ta vui vẻ và tin tưởng vào hạnh phúc cả.Ơr Việt Nam, Nguyễn Huy Thiệp cũng là một cây bút viết truyện ngắn không khoan nhượng và nhiều khi tàn nhẫn, nhưng ở ông vẫn có sự trắc ẩn và sưj cảm thông hay đồng cảm với nhân vật.
Carver's stories made me feel from uncomfortable to deeply sad. They all feel like a sunset in a small town with the smell of damp soil in the air and the yellow grass shining like gold against the sun. Don't ask me to explain it, but even the ones that take place on cold, winter nights felt like that to me. I never thought that such short stories could be so whole, so full of meaning and human emotions. The titular story is a masterpiece in itself.
I'm not sure whether I've given five stars to a collection of short stories before, but these were outstanding. Carver's penetrating depictions of the ordinary and extraordinary struggles of married life are refreshingly honest, gritty and disturbing. He finds simple moments that are filled with subtle implications, and he has this way of just walking away and leaving unsaid the most salient element of the story, forcing the reader to adopt the anguish of the characters, and denying any cathartic release. These are powerful stories that stay with you.
Mi sembra sempre di entrare nelle vite degli altri senza aver chiesto il permesso ogni volta che leggo Carver.
I suoi racconti sono fatti di momenti e spesso sono quelli che durano un battito di ciglia che tendono a rivoluzionare le cose.
C'è sempre qualcosa di non detto, il mistero che trapela dalle pagine, ma non si tratta di racconti gialli, anzi.
Vite banali, tutto fuorché eccezionali come i protagonisti che le vivono, d'altronde.
L'inaspettato è ciò che ci si deve aspettare dalle pagine di Carver: riesce a spiazzare con i vuoti, è un maestro dello spazio.
Serpeggia, allora, un senso di fallimento che a volte cerca il riscatto ma, più spesso, s’inabissa privo di ogni forza.” In cucina, si sedette al tavolo e appoggiò la testa sulle braccia.
In entrambi i casi domina il fumo delle tante sigarette mentre il ghiaccio nei bicchieri sempre pieni di alcool tintinna come fosse l’unico suono vivo di queste vite che si consumano nella propria solitudine.
Il rimpianto dei primi tempi, quando bastava uno sguardo per sentirsi in piena sintonia, è soppiantato da un lacerante senso d’incomprensione reciproca che fa gridare al marito tradito: «Vuoi star zitta, per favore?»..
Che idea ★★★4.
Loro non sono tuo marito ★★★★5.
That maybe he was groomed for this role by Lish; that he wasn’t quite the working class hero he was meant to be; that he was both more ordinary and more sophisticated than journalists and copywriters might have liked him to be – none of that fazes me, because in his writing, despite Lish and his red pen and his sly nod and his gameplan, the imagination speaks so truly.A book is great, says Nathan “N.R.” Gaddis, if when we close the cover we think, “I’m still learning to read.” Hard as it may be for the maximalists to believe, Carver does this, with minimal surface flash, pyrotechnics or lexical contortion.
Oohhh I like Carver. Nothing happens in this short stories, they're great. This collection is very good, there are some bumps along the road but that's to be expected in a collection of 22 stories. I'll definitely be reading more Carver.
somehow, i just plow through every story, even though most of the time it's clear it's going to end up like most carver stories do - with some bloody thread hanging there untied, hinting at something really awful.
but out of all of his short story collections (minus, you know, the big one of all the stories), this one is my favorite, i think.
these stories might have similar skeletons, but they all have different shades of skin, different shapes of bodies, different colored hair and eyes.anyway - the big one for me here is "nobody said anything." i don't know that i've ever read a short story with a more perfect last sentence.
Description: With this, his first collection, Carver breathed new life into the short story.
In the pared-down style that has since become his hallmark, Carver showed how humour and tragedy dwell in the hearts of ordinary people, and won a readership that grew with every subsequent brilliant collection of stories, poems and essays that appeared in the last eleven years of his life.Had this onhold for so long that this visit is a complete reboot.
“He lies on his back for a time and pulls the hair on his stomach, considering.” What man has not done this? Whether part of God’s grand design or good old fashioned evolution Raymond Carver has revealed to the world the purpose of male stomach hair: an aid to male cognition. I wonder what women do?As well as being full of acute observations about male stomach hair and other aspects of human behavior these stories are full of the psychology of things unsaid or understandings not shared. As well
“He lies on his back for a time and pulls the hair on his stomach, considering.”
Whether part of God’s grand design or good old fashioned evolution Raymond Carver has revealed to the world the purpose of male stomach hair: an aid to male cognition.
I wonder what women do?As well as being full of acute observations about male stomach hair and other aspects of human behavior these stories are full of the psychology of things unsaid or understandings not shared.
I am embarrassed to say I only realized it was based on Raymond Carver stories after finishing this.
Thanks to Maya and Sofia for the BR. This is a tricky collection of stories. All are very subtle and simple. I loved it.
These stories are uniformly bleak, piercing vignettes into the disappointments and insecurities of working class people. The relentlessness of the raw pain on display here was very stark and at times very, very difficult to continue reading. That being said, these are some of the most beautifully written stories you are likely to come across, even if you need to take some time to recuperate in between finishing one and starting another.
This is a collection of strange and disturbing short stories with weird titles, elusive meanings and rather abrupt endings.
Raymond Carver has a unique way of offering us a glimpse into the inner lives of his characters.
Think about a short break from your work when you're standing in the corridor smoking a cigarette, wondering about things.
Her boyfriend's reactions to the fat patron and how it affects her life are also part of the short story.
During their rambling conversations, the main character Jack sees his wife hugging the other man.
I can't fathom why, all I would do was contact whoever it was and say to them , "You read Carver and so do I, What's your most favorite one and hey let's get coffee, cause us readers have to stick together because there is so few of us left, especially people who read books made of paper."5 stars for the stories that I read before it was due to someone's hands other then mine, someone I'll never know the identity of.Why did Raymond Carver have to die so young, each book got better, just think if he was still alive.Got this book back form the library the other day, getting to the stories I didn't get to the first time.
Reading such stories about the everyday minutae of American life without the political or Hollywood hype sometimes makes me sad.
Basically though I see the universal realities, basic human needs remain the same, basic human insecurities remain the same, different culturals then jump in to add more difficulty, like different perceptions of how to live a good life, priorities etc.
I like exploring these nuances and with Carver these come in gallons.Carver says very much in a few words.
I suspect that his worldview comes out in his characters.
Some I didn't get, maybe I come from a too different culture to get those.
3.5 stars. Great stories with superb characterisation. I especially loved the dialogues—they were utterly brilliant! The reason why I could not give this wonderful collection a higher rating was because they were too many cliffhangers. Open-ended stories are lovely but when there are too many of them, it makes the reader feel impatient:..
Some of the stories deserve a hundred stars... and applause, and fireworks, and a little dread.
Carver, Carver...non so decidere se tu sia stato la mia più grande delusione o il mio più grande amo
E’ lo scrittore che ha impresso una svolta nelle short stories, caratterizzandole per i temi e per lo stile in modo inconfondibile, è il cesellatore di storie di ordinaria normalità, fatta di mariti stanchi, padri distratti, mogli bugiarde e insoddisfatte; insomma egli descrive un universo di “insana” normalità nel quale ognuno di noi per qualche verso si ritrova, che la scrittura di Carver immortala come una fotografia istantanea che fissa il ritratto delle emozioni e delle sensazioni così come sono in quell’attimo, “hinc et nunc”, senza un passato e senza che vi sia un futuro da immaginare, le pone sotto gli occhi del lettore e lo induce a riflettere sulla propria “normalità” apparente e su quanto vi è dietro, tenuto nascosto.
This collection was my introduction to Raymond Carver, a writer who I’ve been eager to read for a long time since I found out he was writing buddy to one of my favourites of all time, John Cheever.
The Stories of John Cheever is a prized possession in my bookcase.
To begin with, he mainly focuses on a different class of people; Cheever’s characters are the (seemingly) comfy have-it-all, suburban-residing, cocktail-drinking, upper-middle class, set, while Carver deals with the struggling mid-to-lower class weighed down not only by their own personal demons but by economic necessity.
The Student’s Wife: Despite leading a seemingly content life with her husband and children, insomnia and depression begin to dawn upon a woman.

This was a great collection reflecting lower class/working class families and the struggles they face.
I was able to see myself and some of my experiences in these stories, and especially things people in my town have faced.
The stories felt genuine and real.My only faults with this is that at times they were a little too detailed with insignificant things at times, and a lot of them would take a confusing turn that didn't seem to fit the story to me.
Some of these stories felt like they had little meaning too and had repeating themes, so they were tiresome in a collection.
What a sad, really heart-breaking collection of little stories; each one of them masterfully built. I remember back in the 80's, when I wasn't reading literature, how Carver was mocked by many in the media for his minimalist style -- yet not a hint about the emotional intelligence contained in his writings. Just wonderful.It's also a small personal triumph for me, as I'm learning finally how to read short story collections.Anyway, great stuff.
Perfectly lovely stories, just not my thing.
