https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183436.The_Celery_Stalks_at_Midnight
In the third installment of books written by intrepid and long-suffering dog Harold X about his adventures living with his family and his fellow animals Chester the neurotic cat and Bunnicula the vampire rabbit, we find further upheaval in their lives.
For one thing, they have a new dog, Howie the dachshund puppy, who calls Harold "uncle" and Chester "pop." Then you have the strange behavior of the family one sunny day, followed by the disappearance of Bunnicula!
Armed with Chester's knowledge of horror movies and some toothpick stakes, the dogs and cat hit the road to take care of business!
Harold the Labrador just wants to sleep and eat an occasional Hostess cupcake.Chester the cat does not trust Bunnicula....convinced...he's a dangerous vampire rabbit!Howie the puppy dachshund is the joker.He tells Chester: "Take the bunny and run!"Later he smirks.... "Just kitten."Totally enjoyed the leaps and bounds of Harold, Howie and Chester!Finally finished 1 book during Dewey's Read-a-Thon 2017!#TeamANZ
honestly it should get five stars for puns alone
They're too cute! I can't stop reading about Harold, Chester, Howie and Bunnicula.

No matter how you slice it, the fact of the matter is that I am a fan of both zombie vegetables AND mystery solving animals. I also quite like old school book covers and vampiric rabbits. Of course, I really took to The Celery Stalks At Midnight by James Howe, third in the Bunnicula series, gobbling it up during the April 2012 Dewey Readathon in an hour or so.Read the rest of my review here
I’m really mad it landed on a cliff hanger. I’m really happy though, Harold is really brave. I know any other dog would probably never even think about saving there owner. I think that’s really sweet. And I love that it’s called the “Curse of the Vampires” and the chapter is called Curse of the vampires I think it’s really funny! 😂
This has one of the best titles in children's literature. The actual vampire bunny in back in this one which is refreshing, along with a new puppy character from book 2. Not quite as great as the first Bunnicula book but a decent sequel.
I find that reading these books makes me overly affectionate towards my cat
Reads best with peanut butter.
A fun addition to the Bunnicula series, in which Chester the cat is again convinced that the family pet bunny is really a rabid vampire, bent on sucking the juice out of all the vegetables in the house, and soon the neighborhood! Finding pale, juiceless veggies in their backyard doesn't help Harold's case, who as the voice of reason firmly stands by Bunnicula as an innocent fury friend. Just when they think they've got things figured out, a seed of doubt is sown in the hearts of Chester and Harold.Series Review | TpT Store | Pinterest
My 8-year-old said she liked this book best in the series so far. The protagonists are staying true to character, the humor (and silliness) still intact, and mystery ever present. The story itself advanced more off the first book while adding the new [young] dog acquired from the second. Bunnicula is back (who was missing in the 2nd book).
After realizing his mistake, that you have to drive a stake through a vampire, not a steak, Chester arms himself with toothpicks and sets out to find Bunnicula and stake all vegetable victims turned into minion vampires.
Of course Harold joins the crusade, along with Howie, the Monroe's newest addition to the family, who was acquired from Cheateau Bow-Wow. But things turn from bad to worse when the pets find evidence that even the Monroes themselves may have fallen victim to Bunnicula's evil plans.As with the previous books, The Celery Stalks at Night is hilarious.
The newest addition to the family, Howie, is a master of puns, which makes the story all the more funny.
Like, for example, today, when I am reading this book with our girls and Chester makes reference to Thoreau.
Thoreau would have been proud of you." I just happened to recently pick up Walden again (for the third or fourth time) and am making an earnest attempt at finishing it...finally!
Our girls love the Bunnicula series by James Howe.
We are slowly making our way through the series, and the wry humor and funny horror keep us coming back for more.
The story is funny and engaging and our girls kept asking for me to read more.
3.5 starsThe Celery Stalks at Midnight is a cute and silly little book quite similar in plot to Bunnicula, the first of the series. The animal characters are still adorable, and the story as a whole is amusing, but it felt to me that the basic plot was a little too similar to that of Bunnicula. I think it could have been more original. Also, it wasn't quite as satisfying to read because it's rather short, so it feels a bit insubstantial.  It's a decent book, but it could have been better.
This one didn’t age as well for me as Bunnicula did, but it was still better than the second book. The only character that was brought in for a cameo from Howliday Inn was the least interesting one, and the new character (Howie) was “needed” to deliver puns throughout but served no narrative purpose. The puns were made all the more painful by Howie’s need to point out every single one. My recommendation would be to stop with the first book.
Howe is a great writer who uses puns profusely and has gotten into the heads of three very distinctive animals.Some of his plays on words may be lost on the intended audience of 4th grade readers, but they stories are still full of fun and especially good as a read-aloud where an adult can explain some of the word fun.
Nearly as good as the first. Harold and Chester scour the neighborhood for vampire minion veggies when Bunnicula disappears from his cage. No scene compares to the steak/stake mistake but we still laughed out loud more than once. Unlike many intermediate grades novels, this one has aged well.
Cute and entertaining, some of the jokes went over my 9 year old's head, not that they were inappropriate but perhaps too old fashioned due to the age of the book.
One of my favourite books when I was young. Reread it for fun. Still love it.
Oh, how I love this series! These are so much fun to read aloud to my kids. And perfect for reading in October!
Basically, Bunnicula disappears and the rest of the pets decided to go out and try to track him down before anything bad happens.
I really enjoyed watching the pets wander around town trying to figure out what happened to the bunny.
I thought it was actually pretty clever how the animals (mis)interpreted everything that went on, from stabbing veggies in their veggie hearts with toothpicks to watching Toby and Pete (the kids that live with them) turn into vampires.
This pup made so many bad jokes that were not funny, and he just turned out to be an annoying little kid.
My beloved Kindle stopped charging(It's working now which is odd) I needed a book to read in bed and since I have a hard time reading in bed without my glasses I picked this back up and am glad I did.
Harold has been through this before but this is completely new to puppy Howie and if "Pops" aka Chester says they need to stop this from going on and stake every white veggie they can Howie will happily go along.
My new Kindle arrives today but I have started the next book in the series and am loving this as well so my Kindle may need to share me a bit more!
It's made for the child audience yet I could see teens and young adults who enjoy animals to be swept up into the world of Bunnicula and the wild adventures of Chester and Harold.
The general idea of the show is a bit exaggerated from the story and it has minor and major differences.As for the book, this was a fun, funny adventure and chalk full of wit and humor I never really seen in a children's book before.
I enjoy Chester's personality and Harold's enthusiasm and affection for Toby.
The characters, both human and animal are sweet and heartwarming, the relationships of many of the characters to each other is really enjoyable to read about.
Chester enlists (more like bosses) Harold, the dog, and Howie, the dachshund puppy, to help in finding Bunnicula before the who town is turned into vampires.This may be a kids' book, but adults will get laughs from it.
Searching for Bunnicula, the animals wind up on a wild ride in a truck full of garbage to the dump (phew!), destroying the scenery for an outside Halloween play, terrorizing a white cat (who will be looking for revenge) and even more craziness.This is the third book in a series.
I've recently review "Howliday Inn" and plan to read the first, "Bunnicula," and the last, "Return to Howliday Inn." Not long reads but really fun.Again, this is told by Harold, the dog.
In this book Chester freaks out because Bunnicula escapes again because he finds white vegetables all around his neighborhood.
But the thing is that Bunnicula had been moved from his normal cage to a cage that was at a school.The author uses suspense and mystery and surprise to make the reader fall into the book to be part of Chester’s madness and Howie’s admiration for Chester and Harold, and Harold’s dislike for excitement.
And he adds more mystery by having Bunnicula at a different cage than before and we know from the first book that he can get out of locked cages so… I really liked the book because it wasn't scary but it had the elements of gothic literature and it had some mystery and suspense.
I seem to remember these books being big controversy when I was a kid (I guess because of the vampires?) The real problem with this one is not any paranormal shenanigans but the fact that it is just plain boring.
The idea of vampirized vegetables terrorizing the neighborhood is an amusing one, but it's only briefly floated and never comes to pass, and there's little else of charm in the book.
Would maybe recommend to that kid who is obsessed with animal books, but is not a strong reader as a Halloween read.
Though the vampire bunny is mostly missing in this book, as he was in the previous book, his presence is felt much more what with the return of the white vegetables.
Again, most of the focus is on Harold and Chester, along with the newest addition to the family, Howie.
Their crazy shenanigans in trying to protect their humans from Bunnicula’s powers, whatever they perceive them to be, are endearing and quite funny.
If you enjoyed either of the first books, or especially both of them, then this continuation of the adventures of the Monroe family and their eccentric pets will be an enjoyable read.
This is a long road to a short thought. Most of this book is filler dialogue and frustrating clutter. The actual story is quite short but this book drags on forever. The author attempts to be funny but it just falls flat. There’s something about the way it’s written that’s just... flat... boring? I am sick to death of Chester. You’d think after three times, Harold would just tell him to pound salt but given there are four more books I’m going to assume that he continues being a paranoid, snarky shit disturber.
This is a very creative Juvenile-level series which holds a place in my heart. It centers around a vampire bunny named Bunnicula, who sucks the juice out of vegetables. The main characters are the Monroe family and their pets, and the series is told from the perspective of Harold, the family dog. The premise of the first book is Chester, the family cat, trying to convince Harold that Bunnicula is a vampire and that they must save their humans from him.-Miss Emily
