https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/879185.Levantado_del_suelo

The history of the Mau-Tempo family are hard times experienced by these Portuguese workers in large conventional farms.
Implicitly, this is the history of Portugal in the twentieth century that this author Portuguese tells.
Nobel Prize for literature in 1998.It is a dense text, writing breathless while commas, accumulating enumerations breathlessly, the long lists, sentences sometimes stretching for ten, fifteen lines, transforming dialogues monologues, describing the atrocity, but turning away in half, according to the ground a column of ants in the yard where a man is beaten to death, looking from above with the flight of the kite, accompanying the heavenly angels balcony, using adjectives, the metaphors, legends, moving images, a narrative that tells the birth and death, which speaks of the country, hunger, work, solidarity and life.So intense writing, in which I sometimes catch myself hoping breaks, paragraphs, points of suspension that would look up and calmly contemplate the landscape.A heavy roman of history and misery, an endurance test for endurance drives
Hungry people were punished for gathering acorns, usually pig food, from rich landowners’ forests.
People worked dawn to dusk not knowing in advance what their wage would be – that was completely up to the landowner.
(And Portuguese church attendance even today is one of the lowest among Catholic countries.) The church supported the wealthy landowners, preaching obedience to law, while priests spent their time saying private masses in the homes of the wealthy.
It’s amazing that people even survived these generations of such hard times and it’s no surprise to learn that Portugal historically has had one of the highest rates of emigration, akin to that of Ireland’s due to the potato famine.
"Some lives are erased more completely than others, but that's only because we have so many things to think about, we end up not noticing those lives until there comes a day when we regret our neglect, I was wrong, we say, I should have paid more attention, exactly, if only we'd had those feelings earlier, but these are merely twinges of remorse that arise and, fortunately, are almost immediately forgotten."In this singular and visceral literary style of unending thought streams and interchangeable perspectives, where proper nouns are sometimes abandoned and thoughts cascade into a cacophony of dialogue without quotations (only capital letters to signal speaker change), where uninterrupted sentences flow into paragraphs of non-linear thought, and characters are introduced at the intersection of commas, Saramago introduced me to the chaos that was Portugal, during Salazar's reign during the late 1960s, and at the onset of the Portuguese revolution.
Raised from the Ground, by Nobel Prize winning author José Saramago is a mid-career novel (1980) that has only just been translated into English.
It’s a beautiful, life-affirming book that gives voice to a segment of society that very rarely is heard.The novel is said to be the most autobiographical of Saramago’s fiction, because it’s an affectionate but at times brutally realistic recreation of the lives of his grandparents who were landless peasants in rural Portugal.
The achievement of Raised from the Ground is that Saramago’s intimate knowledge of the peasant life his grandparents led, brings it alive.
"Isto é um livro sobre o Alentejo."José Saramago Para minha grande pena, não posso colocar Levantado do Chão na estante onde se mantêm, solitários, três Grandes de Saramago.
Uma maravilha!Em relação ao enredo achei-o demasiado extenso e repetitivo, e com personagens sem alma; ou seja, todos os elementos das várias gerações da família Mau-Tempo têm as mesmas características, parecendo-me serem apenas figurinos para representar o Alentejo e a luta do seu povo durante os anos do fascismo até à revolução de Abril: a miséria, a fome, a luta pela terra, as greves, as prisões...
Caro José,mi sono trasformata in una formica, come quella che alza la testa al modo dei cani e guarda, dal basso verso l’alto, ciò di cui sono capaci certi esseri umani.
Così ho assistito alla vita e alla morte in questa dura terra dell’Alentejo.
Terra dura così come dura è la vita dei suoi poveri braccianti.Ho ascoltato le parole dei disperati e ho sentito la loro rabbia per le violenze e le ingiustizie patite.
Ho guardato gli occhi di una bambina, azzurri come il cielo, versarsi nel cielo azzurro degli occhi di suo nonno che ancora per un attimo la potrà respirare.
Ho sentito il sale delle lacrime e la dolcezza dell’amore.
O meu avô não fez mais que a quarta classe porque tinha que cuidar de uma vaca.
O meu avô trabalhou toda a vida para o mesmo patrão, não havia outro.
Juntamente com a minha avó criaram a minha mãe para que ela nunca tivesse que levar a vida que eles levaram.
O que ganhavam não dava para comer.Este livro é uma mancha de sangue em forma de homenagem aos trabalhadores rurais que nunca deixaram a sua dignidade de lado, escravizados nas suas terras, escravos do lucro, dos luxos, das casas em Lisboa, dos carros e dos palácios dos donos.
الثورة ..اختلفت الأبدان والجرح واحدوالثورة ، دائمًا ، هي البلسمساراماجو ..عظيم كالعادة
(1.12)As I read Saramago's beautiful but lamentable book, I remembered Horace's Odes.
They take each day as it comes.Saramago's language is poetic in tone and yet easily distracted.
The narator tells the story of the Mau-Tempo family who lived through the early 20th century.
As the name implies (Bad Time), they live through the challenges of the Salazar dictatorship into the 1960s.
This is a world of polarization: the wealthy land owners who think little of the workers on their fields; and the growing influence of worker's rights that wanted changes for the worker.
One reads this book and thinks, hey that wasn't that long ago in Portugal?

one of the late nobel laureate's earlier novels, raised from the ground (levantado do chão) was originally published in saramago's native portuguese in 1980 but has only now been posthumously translated into english.
forever facing the misfortunes and daily humiliations that marked their years (including the ongoing threat of violence and imprisonment), the mau-tempos endeavored, and, quite literally, labored for their lives.of all of his novels, it is within raised from the ground that saramago most thinly veils his opinions about politics.
Este livro foi o primeiro que li de Saramago, li-o por acaso, porque estava lá em casa e...
É impressionante como num livro se consegue condensar tanta informação, tanta realidade, tanta história.
Este livro fez-me viver o Alentejo, região que adoro, e uma época da história portuguesa pela qual me interesso.
Além disso a junção entre a descrição da paisagem e da sociedade, quase como a paisagem enquanto resultado da sociedade e esta como resultado da primeira.
Esta dualidade que Saramago conseguiu escrever é fascinante.
Saramago dizia que queria escrever um livro que no fim pudesse dizer, isto é o Alentejo, eu acho que este livro somos todos nós.

... Assim não tem graça, se já ficamos a saber o fim da história, E isso que importância tem, também o fim dos homens é morrer e o melhor deles é a vida contada e por contar
"Raised from the Ground" is an impressionistic account of a family in an agricultural community; in a way it is the inverse of all the novels about upper-class families losing their economic and social grip that are a persistent theme across the world -- "Buddenbrooks", "The Leopard", even China's "The Dream of Red Chambers".
Saramago, whether inserting a brief trope about the past or detouring for a moment into the life of an ancillary character, is all about immediacy, about making these peasants, their hunger, their desires, their primitive efforts to organize, and the punishment meted out to them, intensely vivid, to the point that the novel seems less to end than to cease inspiring him to continue.
A vida miserável dos trabalhadores rurais alentejanos durante a ditadura salazarista é o pano de fundo para uma história, escrita no que se convencionou chamar de registo neo-realista, em que José Saramago denuncia a colaboração da GNR e da Igreja Católica com os latifundiários e com o regime fascista.Apesar da dicotomia bons/maus característica das obras neo-realistas, Levantado do Chão está a léguas de ser um trablho ligeiro.
Além do mais, José Saramago brinda-nos com uma escrita que, por si só, é um deleite.
Uma obra sublime, que me penitencio por não ter lido mais cedo.
يمكن القول ان المترجم اغتال النص كليا ،
http://youtu.be/wwzwDzTw0_g
The landowners, government and Catholic Church unite to keep the workers down, the landowners refusing to raise wages and calling in the police at any sign of labor unrest; the government (particularly under the Salazar dictatorship) responding violently to strikes and arresting and torturing suspected organizers; and the local priests preaching acceptance of their lot to the peasants and getting cozy with the landowners.Which is a fine backdrop for a story, but here the history is at the forefront; the book isn't about its characters but rather the overall state of workers’ rights and oppression at the time.
Es lógico pensar que en un lugar medio asilado y con una comunicación tan limitada con el resto del país el progreso llegue con demora, pero el narrador, contando que es omniscente, libre e indirecto, repara demasiado poco en las coordenadas temporales de la historia con la que la lucha de clases va intimamente ligada, con lo que al final uno sólo percibe cierta monotonía en el desarrollo.El texto transmite empatía por gentes desfavorecidas, compromiso político y humanístico, es original en su prosa y más o menos se alcanza a comprender los sucesos, pero ni deja un poso emocionante ni te seduce por su inteligencia.

أنهيت اليوم رواية ثورة الأرض لساراماجو بعد رحلة مشوّقة وممتعة، في ثورة الأرض يسير بنا جوزيه مع الفلاحين، نلمس جوعهم، نشعر بمعاناتهم، نرى كيف يضطر الشعب أن يعمل النهار كله من أجل أجرٍ لا يكتد يسد الرمق بينما ينعم الذين لا يعملون بالمال والأكل والشراب والراحة وبمساندة النظام ورجال الدين، إنها الإقطاعية في واحدة من أبشع صورها، ثم يتناول ثورة العمال، ثورة القرنفل وانتصار العمال.
في خضم ذلك يناقش ساراماجو قضايا فلسفية كثيرة، الهوية، الموت، العدل الإلهي، العناية الإلهية، الطبقية، الخير والشر.
يقول لنا ساراماجو هنا أن الجهل هو الداء، ويرى المعرفة قرينةً للغذاء والدواء في حياة البشر.
ساراماجو بأسلوبه الساخر صنع من كل هذا رائعة من روائع ما قرأت.
O latifúndio, sempre o latifúndio; a vida, o povo, a esperança, a luta, o quotidiano, tudo levantado do chão.Palavras que se repetem ao longo do livro, o latifúndio...História de uma família com raízes nos tempos medievais até ao século xx, o trabalho a exploração, a pobreza, a miséria.
O dono da terra, Alberto,Sigisberto, Lamberto, Dagoberto ...O padre Agamédes, sempre o padre Agamédes..Os dragões da Pide.Os torturadores Escarro eEscarrilho, o agente Leandro LeandresO sargento Armamento.O cabo Tacabo.Os heróis, a família Mau-tempo...o povo.Saramago conta-nos a história desta família e aquilo que sofrem com o latifúndio, com aqueles para quem trabalham , com a rude vida, com a pouca esperança com a pouca comida com uma vida diferente.As lutas que se iniciam com jornada de trabalho de 8 horas diárias, com as mortes e prisões.
First off, I found Raised from the Ground stylistically challenging. Saramago clearly enjoyed: intensely long sentences, wall of text paragraphs, using commas where 99% of people would put full stops, and tangents.However, I also feel like I learned something important about Portuguese 20th century history, and, even though I'd been cursing the style and what felt like extraneous diversions all the way through, the ending was so moving that I ended up crying on the Tube.I'm not sure I'd read anything else by Saramago but, on the whole, I'm glad I read this one.
مربك هو اسلوب ساراماجو وطريقته فى السرد..يتدخل احياناٌ كثيرة وسط الاحداث للسخرية او للتعليق وأحيانا 
Esta cooperação entre as partes, no sentido de acumular privilégios e dominar o povo remete-nos para a trilogia Estado, Igreja e Latifúndio, apelidada de Santíssima Trindade Terrena.Na minha opinião, é um livro genial, que vale a pena ler e reler pela eximidade da escrita de Saramago, a interacção entre o narrador e o leitor, a crítica social fulminante, revestidas da mais sublime ironia, cujo enredo nos prende e recheado de surpresas de linguagem.
Em poucas palavras, este livro deixou-me com dois pensamentos: “como é que Saramago consegue fazer isto com as palavras?” e “como é que é possível haver situações tão injustas?”.Numa perspectiva mais alargada, a obra levanta questões que ultrapassam os limites do Alentejo.
أما كيف كتب تلك الصرخة، فساراماجو غني عن التعريف، فهو صاحب الأسلوب المعقد و المحير، الفصلة و النقطة هي علاماته الترقيمية فقط، فلذلك عندما تقرأ لا تظن أنك تقرأ فعلاً، القراءة له تحتاج مجهود جبار و أن تشعل قلبك و عقلك لتقرأ بهما، بنية سردية عظيمة و تشابك في الأصوات السردية خلاب الحقيقة و كان ممتع جداً بالنسبة لي و بالطبع ملهم، و في النهاية ساراماجو كعادته يكتب ليتخطى الزمان و المكان، هذا الكل شيء له مني كل الحب و التقدير.
*الترجمة في رأي كانت جيدة جداً رغم أن الكثيرين يرونها ضعيفة، يبدو أنهم لم يفهموا أسلوب ساراماجو الساخر و المعقد و المتشابك بعد!
Although it shares many of the same themes as John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath, 'Raised From the Ground' takes a completely different story-telling approach, which would make for a good lesson for any student of writing.
'Raised From the Ground' is almost all "telling"--where the author has little description and relates a series of events.
Writers are beaten over the head to "show" and not "tell" and this is a perfect example of why; it's very difficult to become invested in a story when the author says, "this happened and then this happened and then this happened." I found myself not caring about a story I would have otherwise enjoyed.
This book is really a revelation to me.
Frequently in that genre I feel a bit claustrophobic and as though the writer is showing off needlessly, but here, though there is certainly a playful quality and the narrator addresses the reader directly, and though there are lots of shifts of point of view and timeline mid-sentence, and digressions and tangents that could seem like trivial wanderings of an author just rambling on it is also incredibly tight and consistent in the long run.
I'm not done thinking about this book by a long chalk.
