https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1011931.The_Paradoxes_of_Mr_Pond
This was an amazing book! I enjoyed it almost more than Father Brown. Chesterton's style of writing is both captivating and literate, and this book in particular is worth reading and rereading several times. The character of Mr. Pond is entertaining, and all the supporting characters are very good too. I especially like "The Three Horsemen of Apocalypse" and "When Doctors Agree" Very good indeed!
beyond the last black and white post of the Fatherland." "The world is changed," said Grock, "not by what is said, or what is blamed or praised, but by what is done." From "The Crime of Captain Gahagan:""[Pond:] Love never needs time.
And so it goes with the Paradoxes of Mr. Pond.I did not find them so seductive as those in The Man Who Was Thursday, or the earlier tales in The Innocence of Father Brown.
The reason is the mechanism Chesterton chose to draw them all together: all begin with a paradox uttered by Mr. Pond, an unassuming and fish-like civil servant.
Probably of necessity - it's not an easy thing to keep up - some of the paradoxes or their explanations feel contrived.
Anyway, Chesterton still sprinkles lovely alliterations and descriptions of scenery and so forth throughout, which saves them even when they're most contrived...
Zuerst muss ich mal die ausgesprochen schöne grafische Gestaltung der gebundenen Ausgabe hervorheben. Jede Seite erscheint in einem individuellen Look, feiner Leineneinband in einem extravaganten Schuber, fadengeheftete Seiten, also kurz um ein Traum für alle bibliophilen Leser. Trotz der schönen Verpackung, konnte mich der Inhalt nicht völlig überzeugen. Die Geschichten sind durchweg recht humorig (wenn auch auf typisch englische Art), sowie von reichlich skurrilem Personal bevölkert. Aber der Aufbau der Erzählungen ist für meinen Geschmack etwas zu verworren geraten (was aber vermutlich vom Autor so beabsichtigt war - es geht hier schließlich um "Paradoxe" und "Überspanntheiten").
The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond are almost his parables, and are a concentrated dose of Chesterton's famous addiction to irony, litotes and, well, paradox. The stories are written in his characteristic style, and while they flit between different narrative layers, they are easy to read, and a good thing to. The reader will find him or herself eagerly digesting the story to find the resolution to Mr. Pond's outrageous statement, which precedes every tale. Not as famous or clever as Father Brown, but another wonderful read from the brilliant, labyrinthian mind of GK.
Simply delicious, in Chesterton's general tone. Great writing, very good stories (especially the three first ones) and tons of those witty sentences that make Chesterton one of the best writers ever existing in the Earth.
Posthumously published, Chesterton's last crime novels.
Although, I suppose, technically a collection of mystery short stories, The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond don't quite read like detective stories. This is a negative, if you find yourself solving the paradox a bit before the characters do and you were expecting an Agatha Christie-level puzzle. But, if you aren't approaching it that way, if you are approaching it from the point of view of someone who enjoys Chesterton's unique perspective wherein paradoxes are the heart of his metaphysics, then it *is* a positive, and it is an entertaining read.
You will really enjoy the stories in this book IF IF IF you can make it to the end. I really disliked Chesterton's writing style, it's extremely long-winded with paragraphs that run for entire pages. I wouldn't read Chesterton again I think.
Great but inconsistent. My favorite short story of all time, "Ring of Lovers," is in this book.
Unfortunately Mr. Pond is not as interesting a character at Father Brown or Gabriel Syme or the plethora of other characters that populate GKC's fiction.
While the protagonists of Four Faultless Felons also deal in paradoxes, their delivery felt more natural, while Pond's poor communications come off as more blatant mystery setups than what Chesterton usually writes.
By all means give it a read, but only if you've already finished with most of Chesterton's fiction.
The central idea is to confront the dominant genre of detective stories along the Sherlock Holmes' line of inquiry.
Things are not what they seemed to observers; each of us brings our own mental framework to interpret what we saw.
If Sherlock Holmes' victory is largely over linking divers of data together, then Mr. Pond's is about knowing the mental-model that each individual brings to the interpretation of the same data.
One can enjoy the verbal wit in such stories, but the plot-lines are thought-experiments in the barest form.

Wonderfully plotted short mysteries by a 20th century writer who also offers some brilliant insights into human nature. Matthew has already reviewed the book, so I'll just use this space to record my favourite part:"Love never needs time. But friendship always needs time. More and more and more time, up to long past midnight."A bit later: "But Love is like that. It is a thing of great moments; and it lives on the memory of moments. Perhaps it is a fragile illusion; perhaps, on the other hand, it is eternal and beyond time. But Friendship eats up time."
Cute, old school Sherlock Holmes type detective stories. Everyone worth a character is male, the action revolves around wordplay and storytelling. Nobody doing much jumping around.The writing is good. For once I have to stop and actually read the words that make up the sentences. I forgot I like that, part of the reason I so enjoyed Moby Dick while in Spain, so much language to loll about in rather than chasing the action and skimming dialogue.
Fabulous stuff, very wittily plotted short stories. Takes a bit of attention to read bc Chesterton is an early 20thC journalist from the Uk, steeped in the classical tradition, his writing is a bit more dense but very lyrical, and his plots are complicated and take time to build up. But well worth it, and he inserts philosophical musings on all sorts of things -- friendship, men, women, love, conversation, etc -- into the writing, via the enigmatic story-teller Mr Pond.
Published in 1936, The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond is G. K. Chesterton's final collection of detective stories. Now in the public domain with a free electronic copy available here
Anything the great GKC wrote must deserve 3 stars. This doesn't get any extra, because although his wonderful style is there, the characters do not come to life - I can't 'see' Mr Pond, or the captain, and the puzzles don't always work. A pleasant enough read but not a book I'll revisit.
One of my favorites ever, I find the character of Mr. Pond to be more appealing than that of Sherlock (though I have only read two Sherlock stories).
It was quite good. Basically short stories all evolving around Pond's seemingly paradox's. Fun.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Radio adaptation of GK Chesterton's detective stories.
Mr.Pond takes the whole thing of paradoxes to a new level.
Simple, short, riddle like detective stories.
Not the mysteries I thought they'd be, nor are they exceptional short stories. It's my first Chesterton, so I'll have to give another story a try before rendering judgement on the author.
I love Chesterton's non-fiction, top drawer stuff. But I must confess that I sometimes find his fiction tedious and contrived, with fun spots here and there. Oh, well.
Read so far:THE THREE HORSEMEN OF APOCALYPSE--THE CRIME OF CAPTAIN GAHAGAN--WHEN DOCTORS AGREE--POND, THE PANTALOON--THE UNMENTIONABLE MAN--RING OF LOVERS--THE TERRIBLE TROUBADOUR--A TALL STORY--
