https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213472.Death_of_a_Cad
Lots of upperclass twits in Death of a Cad, which revolves around a successful playwright and the murder of an annoying twat by one of the toffs staying at the local castle.
And it's also not quite ridiculous enough to be considered a comedy.The will-he-won't-he, will-she-won't-she play between Hamish and the castle debutant is not a romance I can pull for.
However, Hamish himself is a likable enough guy with a good set of morals and seems like the kind of blue-collar hero I could root for, so I'll likely give book three a try some one of these days.
BLURBMurder Most Fowl When Priscilla Halburton-Smythe brings her London playwright fiance home to Lochdubh, everybody in town is delighted...except for love-smitten Constable Hamish Macbeth.
When the hidden culprit strikes again, Hamish will find himself trying to save Priscilla from a miserable marriage-and catch a killer before he flies the coop.COMMENTSI ventured off to Youtube to find more informtion on the author and discovered a 3-part series(each part consisting of several episodes) of Hamish Macbeth mysteries.
It was with delight that I read the second book in the series.
Thanks to the video series, the books have become much more enjoyable.
A pleasant cozy mystery that made for an ideal lazy Sunday reading. I didn’t quite enjoy this Mcbeth mystery as much as the first, but it’s short page count helps to keep the reader engrossed and can easily be read in a day.The mystery itself is fun, as the vile Captain Bartlett is killed on a goose hunt, Mcbeath is convinced that fail play is in order.I found quite a lot of the secondary characters to be annoying, so this story didn’t click aswell for me.I found the solution to very satisfying.
These books are really quick, good, easy reads that are perfect for a lazy afternoon.I loved the setting, first of all. i find some books set on the British Isles hard to follow, but this was quite easy to read. The characters experienced some growth in this book, though I really wish people would stop thinking of Hamish as simply a lazy person looking for freebies, he's actually a really good policeman.Overall a great book that I finished in little time. Onto the next one!
Three stars for the whodunit (which I did not come to right conclusion as to who dunnit!) and 1 whole star for wonderful Hamish Macbeth-swoon! I love the setting of Lochdubh too!
I'm not sure what book is the first of this series, but this is the first one I read. Look, I am addicted. I have taken to calling people "ye auld pillock" rather than the usual names I call them. Hamish is kind of a mess, but I love him. I think I"ve read about 20 in the past month.
Found the second bookmore enjoyable than the first.Hamish Macbeth uses his charmto interview the suspectsand solve the crime.Narrator Davina Porteris one of my favorites.Clean except for somemild Foul Language.
Poor Hamish. His wee heart takes a bit of a beating when when Priscilla brings home a fiancé. Of course, people die and Hamish is the only one who can identify the killer.
Some of the local notables are invited up to the Halburton-Smythe estate for the engagement party but when one of the guests, Captain Bartlett (a notorious cad and all around boor), is found dead after a grouse hunt, Hamish gets drawn into the investigation.
This story is much more focused on the impossible interest between Hamish and Priscilla that was present but less so in Death of a Gossip.
That same imperturbable cleverness that made Hamish so enjoyable in Death of a Gossip is alive and well in this book and made the mystery highly enjoyable.
More a 3.5My first outing with both Highland bobby Hamish Macbeth and Glaswegian author Marion Chesney under the pseudonym M.C Beaton, Death of a Cad, is a wonderfully readable, intelligent and enjoyable murder mystery - Hamish Macbeth is an endearing character if there ever was one! He is amative, captivating and the perfect guy to get behind.
I really enjoyed it.Peter Bartlett is murdered at a castle owned by Mr and Mrs Halburton-Smythe, after a party attended by a whole host of interesting Scottish characters.
Hamish Macbeth is the local detective who happens to be in love with the daughter of the Halburton-Smythes - Priscilla.
The rest, including Priscilla, were just a bit mean and thought a lot of themselves - although they were attendees at a posh castle party and all suspected of murder, so that makes sense!?
Lovely to play along with this lighthearted murder mystery.www.thebeautifulbookbreak.com
Character List(view spoiler)[Recurrent characters in the seriesIn Lochdubh Hamish Macbeth Lochdubh's village policeman. Priscilla Halburton-Smythe Once the love of his life, the beautiful, cool Priscilla still tugs at his heartstrings and has assisted Hamish in solving crimes. Colonel Halburton-Smythe Priscilla's snobbish father. He dislikes Hamish immensely and considers him a most unsuitable friend for his daughter. Mary Halburton-Smythe Priscilla's timid mother. Elspeth Grant Local news repo
Priscilla Halburton-Smythe Once the love of his life, the beautiful, cool Priscilla still tugs at his heartstrings and has assisted Hamish in solving crimes.
Mrs. Wellington The local clergyman's wife.
Mr. Patel has developed a Highland accent and he and his family are accepted in Lochdubh as locals.Police in Strathbane Superintendent Peter Daviot, who likes Hamish Susan Daviot his social-climbing wife, who aspires to befriend Priscilla Halburton-Smythe Helen, Daviot's secretary, who dislikes Hamish Detective Chief Inspector Blair, who also hates him (mostly because Hamish is competent and Blair is not); a fat whisky drinker who, on several occasions, is hospitalised with alcohol poisoning.
Another fun Hamish Macbeth mystery.
In this tale, Hamish is heartbroken as his former love, Priscilla Halburton-Smythe returns to Lochdubh with a fiance in tow.
Her snobbish parents arrange a house party to show off the prospective son-in-law, Henry Withering, a noted playwright.
The guests are all part of the landed gentry in Northern Scotland, a small group that knows and despises one another.
When the most disliked guest is murdered, Hamish goes on the trail of a clever murderer.
She is a wonderful storyteller with vivid descriptions of characters.
Great characters and lots of twists make this a great cosy!
Beaton’s hero, Hamish Macbeth, is the town police constable, a rather lazy, unambitious, but happy man who often, because of his intimate knowledge of the community, manages to solve murders that have the more traditional CID inspectors baffled.
Everyone assumes it’s an accident except for our hero, Hamish, the local bobby who, much to the consternation of his obnoxious superior, discovers evidence of foul play.
Each of Beaton’s Hamish Macbeth series is set in the Scottish Highlands and begins The Death of.
I recommend starting at the beginning of the series and reading them in order because a recurring theme is the relationship between Hamish and Priscilla Halburton-Smythe, daughter of the local landed gentry.
Death of a Cad by M.C. Beaton is the second book in her Hamish Macbeth mystery series.
I've read more of Beaton's Agatha Raisin books, but actually I think I might prefer the Macbeth series (don't get me wrong, both are entertaining reads.)In Death of a Cad, the Halburton-Smythes invite a group of 'friends' to their estate in Scotland to celebrate the engagement of their daughter, Priscilla, to playwright Henry Withering.
Death of a Cad was a definite improvement on the preceding Hamis Macbeth mystery.
M.C. Beaton seems to have found her stride in the genre and the characters are far more developed.
We learn more about Hamish and his object of affection, Priscilla Halburton-Smythe.
We also receive further proof that both the Scottish Highlands and country houses are dangerous.
Also dangerous are (view spoiler)[artists (hide spoiler)] and pushy fiances.
(Naturally, as someone who has read many of the Regency novels the author writes as Marion Chesney I was previously aware of the trouble the latter can bring.) Overall, this was a delightful and light read.
I recommend it to any fans of the English mystery genre.
The village of Lochdubh, Scotland is one of my current favorite places.
Between the uppity landed gentry, the local game poachers, and the seemingly hopeless romance between the intrepid Hamish and the lovely Priscilla, I'm eager to read every one of these diverting installments in this series.
This particular story has some of my favorite elements - snarky humor, an older femme fatale, and the poor, dead, cad who is mentioned in the title.
When you combine these into a weekend estate party, it turns into a murder that is extremely entertaining for everyone except the people directly involved.
I loved it.
First sentence: Henry Withering, playwright, slumped down in the passenger seat of the station wago after another bleak look out at the forbidding landscape.Premise/plot: Death of a Cad is the second mystery in the Hamish Macbeth series by M.C. Beaton.
No wonder Priscilla keeps finding ways to spend time with Hamish MacBeth instead--much to her parents disapproval.
And of course, Hamish MacBeth will be the one to solve the crime.
If the style of the writer suits the reader, knowing that there are thirty-something books in the series is welcome news.
She can't get enough of Hamish MacBeth.
I'd recommend skipping Death of a Gossip, the first book of the series, and beginning with this one. It has all the pertinent information and focuses much more sharply upon Hamish Macbeth, both as a policeman and as the hopeless wooer of Lady Priscilla. It is a light mystery of the "cozy" variety but the Scottish setting holds my interest as does Hamish himself, with his calm common sense and sharp eye for details that don't seem to fit together.
Noch ein wenig flotter und unterhaltsamer ist der zweite Fall des Highland-Dorfpolizisten Hamish Macbeth, wenngleich der Plot einer "geschlossen Gesellschaft" aus Band 1 hier erneut zum Tragen kommt. Genau die richtige Lektüre für arbeitsreiche Tage; freue mich auf den dritten Band, der im November erscheint. (Juni 2017)
It's possible that I hate everyone at that house party. Except two. Maybe three. The rest, I hate. That's why I really didn't care who died, they were all horrible. Then I just keep going to find out who is responsible.
This is #2 in the series - much better than #1. Really enjoyed seeing the earlier stage of Hamish and Priscilla's relationship, even if I did figure out who the murderer was early on.
Ah, another Hamish Macbeth story - and even better than the last!
Hamish is quite captivating as he works to find the murderer, make some extra money and save the love of his life from a ghastly prig who she is marrying strictly out of loyalty to her parents.It wasn't hard to pick out who the killer must be but I must admit the motive never entered my mind.
I appreciate how compact the author keeps the story rather than going off in flowery or dreary descriptions the way many American authors do.
I just wanted something light to read quick in the midst of reading some serious books, and doing some other work.
This book was just what I wanted!
I love British mysteries like these that are very well-written, clean, and humorous.
In this story, Hamish MacBeth gets involved in a murder that takes place in the home of the girl he is in love with, Priscilla...who has actually gotten engaged to someone else.
Priscilla starts to have second thoughts about her very self-involved fiance, and Hamish is trying to solve the murder and keep Priscilla from making a horrible mistake.
In the midst of moving to a different country and all the stuff that goes along with major life events, I haven't had a lot of time to read longer books, but I've been able to squeeze in some Hamish Macbeth.
This is the second book in the series, and Hamish is better developed and generally more likeable than in the first book.
Plus, we get to meet Priscilla Halburton-Smythe, Hamish's secret love, who will turn up in future books.
Impeccably dressed, of course.All in all, a charming series.
I'll definitely read a few more.
Priscilla comes home with a fiancé, there's a murder at the castle, Hamish ignores protocol, etc.Grudging three stars because of the point where Hamish slut-shames Priscilla after he has shown up at her door in the middle of the night, invited himself into her room and lain down on her bed, then when caught by the fiancé, blames her for being skimpily attired and implies this is all her fault and sympathizes with the fiancé.
Since Hamish is, in most respects, a traditional hero, these sort of things really come across as acceptable to the author at times rather than commentary on life in the Highlands.
I'm sure this is why I've given up on the series so many times.
This would be considered a "cozy mystery", given that it's light, but it's such great fun (despite the murder!). Set in the Scottish village of Lochdubh, with the easy-going village Constable Hamish MacBeth in the thick of things, up against an inspector from a big city who despises MacBeth's quiet intelligence and amazing fact-finding and mystery-deducting abilities. Lovely characters, setting, language and a good read, all-around!
Police Constable Hamish Macbeth is in love with Priscilla Halburton-Smythe, but, unfortunately, she has come home to the village of Lochdubh with her fiancé. One of the guests at her engagement party is murdered while on a grouse hunt. Now Hamish has to sort through the high-roller guests to figure out who killed the revile Captain Bartlett. A fun read.
The setting and characters are so good Beaton doesn't really need to add a "Country House Weekend Party/Murder" but that's icing on a good cake. Perfect for a stay-at-home vacation from the real world. I'll be reading more in this series.
Constable Hamish Macbeth tackles his second murder mystery in the small town of Lochdubh in northwest Scotland. Fun, fast read that brings in many Scottish accents and lots of Highland and English characters.
