https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27213208-the-muse

As an image it was simple and at the same time not easily decipherable—a girl, holding another girl’s severed head in her hands on one side of the painting, and on the other, a lion, sitting on his haunches, not yet springing for the kill. It had the air of a fable. I am sure most of you have had the experience of seeing a painting and wondering what was the inspiration for its creation. Or pondered what might lay behind the mystery, of, say an enigmatic painted smile. The Muse take us back thr
The story alternates between Odelle’s experiences as an immigrant in London, trying to make her way in a world where her skin color presents challenges, and Spain in 1936, on the brink of Civil War. The latter is where most of the action takes place.Jessie Burton in the Palace of Quintanar in Spain - from El Norte de CastillaOlive Schloss, 19, recently granted admission to a London art school, is in Spain with her parents.
The young English woman feels inspired by Spain and paints in secret, sharing her work only with Teresa and Isaac.
Both are creatives, Odelle with writing, Olive with painting.
So many novelists over these last few years, it seems are telling stories from dual time frames and if done right there can be a meaningful connection between them .
On top of that there is a mystery over a painting, love interests, and the hold on the reader waiting to see how Olive's life in a town in Spain in 1936 would connect with Odelle's in London in 1967 .
As it turned out it just took way too long to flesh out details and as the story progresses and connections are made between the two characters and times, it felt a bit like a soap opera.
‘’...and that’s all that matters, isn’t it? What people believe. It doesn’t matter what’s the truth; what people believe becomes the truth.’’ I finally found the time to read Jessie Burton’s sophomore novel and I am very glad to conclude a wonderful reading month with a beautiful work of Fiction. The Miniaturist is among my 10 all-time favourite novels and while The Muse wasn’t as magical and haunting, it was no less exciting and complex.The novel opens with Odelle, a young woman from Trinidad,
The Miniaturist is among my 10 all-time favourite novels and while The Muse wasn’t as magical and haunting, it was no less exciting and complex.The novel opens with Odelle, a young woman from Trinidad, who tries to find a better life and a chance to follow her love for poetry in London during the swinging ‘60s.
Through Olive’s eyes we witness the political and social upheaval in the Iberian Peninsula and a woman’s fight to find a voice and a place of her own in the world of Art.So, the dual timeline trope is present in The Muse and is masterfully executed.
In truth, I thought it was simply dreadful.I’d read a good deal about Jessie Burton and I know her first book,  The Miniaturist, has proved to be something of a literary sensation.
This book, her second, sounded interesting too: interlocking stories set in 1930’s Spain and 1960’s London.
There’s a mystery concerning a painting too – I liked that, it reminded me of the excellent  The Last Painting of Sara de Vos. And I was attracted by the fact that the audiobook was to be read by the brilliant actress Cathy Tyson.
And this in itself wouldn’t have been so bad if the words themselves drew me into a story I felt compelled to listen to.
*3.5 stars*Having previously read Jessie Burton’s The Miniaturist, I was quite excited to pick up a copy of her newest novel, The Muse.
I thought leaving for England was the same as stepping out of my house and onto the street, just a slightly colder street where a beti with a brain could live next door to Elizabeth the Queen." Having worked in a shoe store with her best friend for far too long, Odelle quickly seizes an opportunity to work as a typist at the Skelton gallery.
You know when you love a book so much you're ridiculously excited and desperate to read the authors next but also really worried you won't love it as much which makes your tummy go funny... then you read it and kick yourself because it's utterly superb? That's what's happened with The Muse. It's fuzzing brilliant and I was a foolish nervous fool.
Final review, first posted on Fantasy Literature:In her follow-up to her acclaimed novel The Miniaturist, Jessie Burton adopts a dual timeline structure, following the lives of two creatively gifted women separated by time and place, but linked by a luminous, long-hidden painting that bodes well to take the art world by storm, and a decades-old mystery about the artist.
Isaac’s minor talent at painting, Teresa’s desire to have Olive become known for her art, and Olive’s compulsion to keep it secret, collide, with unexpected consequences for all three of them.Burton chooses two unusual cultures for her settings: 1960’s London, from the viewpoint of a Caribbean immigrant, and pre-Civil War Spain in 1936, also seen from an outsider’s point of view.
I don’t tend to read much historical fiction, so perhaps that is why it was lost on me.
There has been a lot of hype surrounding this book because of the former, and I got to ignore all of that and come at my review with fresh eyes and a fresh perspective.The Muse is set in two time frames; In the 1960’s, Odelle moves from Trinidad to London to pursue her dream of being a writer.
Usually historical fiction and I don’t get on very well, but I breezed through this book as if I had read it before.
Because listen to this; she running out of time on something, I sure of it.' to complete sentences with use of conjunctions, 'I don't know what he wants.
But surely an exhibition can only be a good thing.', and her voice as narrator is more refined and lyrical than any of her dialogue: Where I was from, doing your own work was the only wake-up from the long sleep which followed the generations in the fields.
One of the greatest elements of the book -- aside from its deceptively luscious cover -- is this lyrical passage: It was a time of long evening shadows, the raw rasp of crickets filling the hot night.
Paintings. Spain 1936. London 1967. A mystery. Romance. War. Art in life. Family. Friendship. Betrayal. Life in art. "Art rarely obeys human desire. I expect such a painting left its imprint even when he couldn't see it." "In the end, a piece of art only succeeds when its creator, . . ., possesses the belief that brings it into being."I intend to write a more complete review within the next 2 days. I just wanted to say, until then, that I really enjoyed this contemplation on the significance of art in history and in life.
At first, I wasn’t planning to read this book.  The Miniaturist  didn’t impress me, and I wondered if I should give Jessie Burton another try when there are so many new authors to discover. Then, I realized the reason why The Miniaturist didn’t work for me is that a certain plot turned out random and pointless at the end, but I loved the characters and the writing itself. So I thought, if The Muse avoids this problem, it has the potential to be very good. And it is! In fact, it’s beautiful!Yes,
If someone doesn’t like your work, it doesn’t mean they think you’re a terrible person, but at times this is difficult to believe.2) Immigration, integration, and the disillusionment that comes along.Odelle’s experiences in London were depicted really well.
This is such a common phenomenon – some people, who’ve grown up in poor regions, think that places like England are these magical lands where money grows on trees, and the moment you manage to get there, everything becomes perfect and beautiful.
Well, Burton has certainly changed things up: in her new book the action spans 40 years and encompasses London, Trinidad and Spain during its Civil War. Again there’s plenty of melodrama, but I liked the contrast between the two time periods and Odelle’s voice is easy to fall for.There have been a number of novels recently about researching the uncertain origins of a painting (The Suicide of Claire Bishop and The Last Painting of Sara de Vos are two that come to mind).
Burton keeps you guessing about the link between the 1936 and 1967 subplots – at least twice you have to completely reconsider what the connection might be.
The idea that anyone might be able to detach their personal value from their public output was revolutionary.”In order to create art that moves and speaks and matters, an artist must find their muse.
But a muse is something that said artist keeps returning to, something that has the power to imbue their work with life and a lushness that nothing else can quite inspire.Odelle is a Trinidad native trying to make a way for herself in London during the 1960s.
I liked what the novel had to say about art and the process of creation, and I appreciated that the book highlighted women as artists.
I still appreciated the story, though, and so I decided to get "The Muse" as well and read it.
It turned out that I liked this novel a lot better, and in many ways I read it at just the perfect time of my life.
While I do think that Jessie Burton's stories, "The Muse" included, have some superficial faults with them, I appreciated "The Muse" a lot for its simplicity and beauty, and I'm so happy that I continued on with reading Jessie Burton because this reading experience was one that I wouldn't want to be without.
I generously received a copy of the book from Harper Collins Publishers/Ecco.
First, I absolutely loved Burton's debut novel The Miniaturist, so I was skeptical as to how I would like the 2nd novel.
The books are totally different in nature.
But, honestly, they are both fabulous reads and receive 5 stars from me!
So, if you are a reader that loved or hated The Miniaturist, The Muse may be one to take a chance on.
Seems like a win/win situation to me.
I found with each of these novels, one must be patient to allow the author to set the stage for both the plot and the characters.
Now, The Muse isn't as beautiful as The Miniaturist was imo, but it was indeed lovely and sad and everything inbetween.
The story focuses on the discover, in 1967, of a long lost painting by Isaac Robles, a young artist whose life is pretty much a mystery, and it follows Odelle's search for information about it and its painter.
This search brings her to Olive's story, set in Arazuelo in 1937, just a few months before Isaac's mysterious death.I immensely enjoyed reading Odelle's story.
Odelle is the kind of girl I want to see in books: smart, curious, strong in a quiet but unmistakable way.
The book has an attractive cover, but unfortunately the content was underwhelming for my taste.
I believe the author could've done a better job to make it more interesting and fit for a novel.- Despite being the winning cards and points of strength in this book, the able use of vocabulary was distracting being aligned with a flat story.
Turns out from the acknowledgements at the end of the book that the author got aid from a professor to write the accent as accurately as possible.
9,5 de 10*Que livro fantástico! Que leitura agradável e intensa! Adorei cada pedacinho desta história, principalmente da surpresa no final. Muito bem escrito, com uma narrativa muito bem construída, “A Musa” encheu-me as medidas.Já tinha anteriormente lido “O Miniaturista”, que embora tenha apreciado, pela sua originalidade e ambientação, achei um pouco arrastado. Já “A Musa” não tem nada de arrastado, a história flui e dá vontade de o ler sem parar. Comentário completo em:https://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.pt...
“Art is the lie that enables us to realize the truth.”  ----Pablo PicassoJessie Burton, an English author, has penned a deeply moving and intoxicating historical fiction novel, The Muse that narrates the story of two women separated by a timeline of almost thirty years, where the one is an aspiring Trinidadian woman who finds work as a typist in art gallery of London whose odd boss encourages and explores her talent in writing stories and one day, a mysterious painting lands up in that gallery with a deeply buried secret, that will take the readers back in time when the other woman who is a young teenage girl, is trying to keep her artistic talents hidden from her dominating art dealer father's eyes and when she meets a young housemaid and her half brother, her life forever changes with life shattering actions.Synopsis: From the internationally bestselling author of The Miniaturist comes a captivating and brilliantly realized story of two young women—a Caribbean immigrant in 1960s London, and a bohemian woman in 1930s Spain—and the powerful mystery that ties them together.England, 1967.
When artist and revolutionary Isaac Robles and his half-sister Teresa come into their lives, passion, art, and politics collide, with explosive and devastating consequences for them all.Weaving between events in 1967 and those of 1936, a powerful story of love, obsession, identity, authenticity and deception unfolds in this highly anticipated new novel from Jessie Burton, author of the best-selling The Miniaturist.1967 - Odelle Bastien starts work as a typist at the Skelton InstituteLawrie brings in his painting to the Skelton.
I liked this a lot -- enough to stay up too late and sneak chapters in between errands. Mostly I appreciate its sense of unrest -- artistic, political, racial, relationship-based. I think Burton writes women well and there was enough mystery in the plot to make me want to keep turning pages.
Εκεί αρχικά πιάνει δουλεία σε ένα υποδηματοπωλείο, αλλά στην συνέχεια της δίνεται η ευκαιρία να εργαστεί ως δακτυλογράφος σε ένα ινστιτούτο τέχνης, κάτι που θα φέρει τα πάνω κάτω στη ζωή της.Και μετά έχουμε και την Όλιβ Σλος από το 1936.
Είχε και λίγο ισπανικό εμφύλιο, έθιγε και λίγο τη θέση των γυναικών εκείνη την εποχή και τις περιορισμένες ευκαιρίες που είχαν......αλλά εντάξει.....δεν με ικανοποίησε......Λίγο πιο κάτω από τη μέση και μετά νομίζω πώς κάπου το έχασε...ή έχασε εμένα.....ήταν και το τέλος λίγο προβλέψιμο...όχι αυτό ακριβώς που είχα υποθέσει βέβαια αλλά δεν μου προκάλεσε και ιδιαίτερη έκπληξη όπως θα ήθελα!Τώρα όσο για τους χαρακτήρες δεν έχω να πω και πολλά...τους βρήκα λιγάκι αψυχολόγητους.....ενώ στην αρχή μου ήταν σχετικά συμπαθείς στο τέλος κατέληξαν από αδιάφοροι έως...όχι συμπαθείς.
Looked at with distaste and often overlooked altogether, she is astounded when she is offered a job as a typist at the Skelton Gallery.Meanwhile in 1936, Spain is on the verge of war and revolution and Olive Schloss; daughter of Harold and Sarah, and aspiring artist is entranced by the mysterious and enigmatic brother and sister; Isaac and Teresa Robles.The author expertly and quite beautifully weaves the two stories together, seemingly only connected by a work of art, as the novel progresses, the two stories are knitted tighter and tighter together until each and every character has their own place in both parts.Jessie Burton's portrayal of the fierce divisions in Spain that led up to the Civil War is so clearly and cleverly done, her characters are vibrant yet complicated.
and also the knife that unpicks long-held secrets.I really enjoyed Jessie Burton's first novel, The Miniaturist, but I absolutely adored The Muse.
Don't get me wrong, the writing was well-crafted, but I just couldn't connect with the story and the characters.
Let's take a look a bit closer.Odelle is a young woman originally from Trinidad, trying to make a living in London beyond selling shoes to people wealthier than her.
But, everyone singles out Odelle as this special girl in their lives for no reason.
I wish Trinidad or at least its culture were somehow involved in the story.
Her, hanging all her ability for outstanding art on a man, who clearly couldn't give a crap about her, bothered me.
Odelle Bastien is an intelligent young woman with author ambitions and an interest in art. When she takes a job at an art gallery, she becomes friends with her boss, the mysterious Marjorie Quick, who has a big secret. Odelle becomes entangled in a complicated story about art, gender and deceit. With flashbacks to Spain in 1936, the secret is revealed bit by bit.From a decade of devouring novels, Olive knew that charming men were deadly. Their story had been played down the centuries, unharmed
Odelle becomes entangled in a complicated story about art, gender and deceit.
I cannot remember specific examples, but the beginning had many sentences like "If we both knew what would come next, we would probably have turned around and gone the other way." When I turned the last page I still didn't understand why.
Nothing dramatic happened that could have been avoided by the characters' actions.The conclusion of the love story was refreshing - and that's all I will reveal.
First (chronologically) timeline takes place near Malaga Spain, just as the country is on a brink of a devastating civil war, compounded by the impending WWII casting its dark shadows over Europe and deals with a family of an art dealer.
The second timeline is set three decades later, in London, and deals with a young Trinidadian immigrant who though her new job and a new boyfriend comes across a stunning work of art with a mysterious past.
Burton alternates both narratives so cleverly that it's more than just a drama, a love story, historical fiction or a war tale, it's also a fascinating mystery and every aspect works terrifically for a terrific total effect.
Review to come.
I hadn't read The Miniaturist by Jesse Burton because a couple of my Goodreads friends had negative comments in their reviews that made it sound like a book that I wouldn't enjoy.
Yet I will give an author more of a chance when the novel sounds like it will be of special interest to me.
I was particularly drawn to The Muse by the fact that the 1960's POV character, Odelle Bastien, was an Afro-Caribbean woman who worked in a London art gallery.
Nakon Minijaturstice u kojoj ostajemo bez odgovora na kraju knjige, Muza je sasvim fino zaokružena cjelina. Iako se meni više svidjela atmosfera i ideja Minijaturistice i u Muzi nam je Jessi Burton pružila lijepu priču u seoskom ozračju Španjolske.
