https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239796.Coming_of_Age_in_the_Milky_Way
Light on science, heavy on the history of cosmology.It's a nice, short read.There is, however, one h
The one quibble I would have is that people like Caroline Herschel, Maria Mitchell, Cecilia Payne-Gaposhkin, Henrietta Leavitt, Annie Jump Cannon (got the pattern yet?) didn't get as much attention relative to others as they deserve given their contributions to the field.
This was particularly noticeable to me because I had just read a biography of Maria Mitchell and was in the middle of a biography of Cecilia Payne-Gaposhkin.
It is one of those amazing things - some of the most important discoveries in 19th and 20th century astronomy in this country were made by women, most of whom couldn't get PhDs, barely got recognition for their work, and were often discouraged from thinking about the science.
The perfect layman's guide to the universe.
It gets pretty hairy as soon as quantum mechanics take the stage about 3/4 in, especially if you have no background in physics whatsoever (as i certainly don't) but i doubt Ferris could have written about the various quantum theories in a simpler way, at least not without cheating the subject of its inherently complex grace.
I came away from this reading experience with not only a renewed interest in astronomy (and science in general, really) but also a greater appreciation for the size of the universe and our relative inconsequence in the grand scheme of things.
Exciting stuff.
It's not that Ferris kept the descriptions of Newton and Darwin brief.
If Ferris is going to portray various scientists in a manner that is far different from how just about every other author, whose life work has been to study the biographies of their chosen scientist, has portrayed these scientists, then he is going to need to provide some proof for his alternate version of their personalities.
However, they should strive to be as accurate as possible, not just in relating the science itself, but in portraying the scientists' personalities.
The author is inaccurate and dismissive on questions touching on religion and inaccurate and incomplete on matters of women's contributions to science.
The book is frustrating in the earlier historical parts because of this.
It gets better in the third part, where he waxes rhapsodic about physics, but he's also not nearly as eloquent as he thinks he is.
That said, the parts about the "stairway to heaven" describing conditions going back to fractions of a second after the Big Bang and the scale of the universe were pretty good.
A decent read but there are much better science books out there that cover similar material.
What distinguishes it as excellent writting, for me, is that he doesn't patronize the reader by trying to make concepts too simple, and his writting does not needlessly repeat information presented earlier in the book.Though it is not as detailed as an introductory level astronomy textbook, it presents all the same baisc ideas and in a very readable fashion.
I think that reading this book prior to taking astro courses gave me a better understanding of the concepts presented in class.The organization of the book is effective because it follows the development of the science of astronomy.
Fantastic book that covers the relatively short history of cosmology and human discovery that acted to expand the long history of the universe.This book has been on my shelf for a while but, like Carl Sagan's Cosmos, once I picked it up I couldn't put it down. It's easy to read, while still appealing to readers with some background knowledge.
This was like a coming-of-age story, except with the journey of the human mind. Light on the science, heavy on the history and pretty decently written. If you have even the slightest interest in space, you'll enjoy this one.
It is mostly told via 'great man' chapters from the usual suspects - Copernicus, Brahe, Kepler, Galileo, Herschel and others.Of course as science got more complex with better tools, further truths about the universe became a mix of discoveries upon discoveries from a mix of astronomers and physicists.
And these chapters are less about individuals as geniuses (some exceptions here: Einstein) than about what was learned and how.A reasonably easy read, with no math although having at least high school physics helps.
It only bogged down in the chapter on subatomic particles but fortunately, the next chapter got more macro and was easier to follow.Worth reading?
But I'm a reader, and this book was like candy.Reading the final chapters on the search for unified field theories made me think we have come full circle.
The author continues with colorful descriptions of eccentric and egocentric scientists and their sometimes clashing, sometimes meshing theories.Sometimes as I read about theoretical physics I felt like the character Charlie in Flowers for Algernon might have felt.
I might try reading Lee Smolin's The Trouble With Physics, because it's recommended for a more general readership, but what I'm starting to see is that you don't really need to comprehend physics to realize that string theory is a bit like complimentary and alternative "medicine" in that a lot of money and effort are being spent on hairbrained, dead-end concepts -- ones that are "not even wrong."
A tour de force of the history of science. Ferris does a surprisingly good job of making even the most complicated topics somewhat understandable for the lay reader (though a few remained out of grasp) while also avoiding too much pop-science speculation.
But Ferris does one better and balances the march of scientific discoveries with a regard for the fumbling humanity of the steps, both forward and back, toward piecing together an understanding of the universe in which we find ourselves.
And so the book is divided into three sections, following the pursuits of space, time, and creation.Where the weave of clarity becomes looser in the later chapters of Coming of Age, Ferris steers toward the marvelous, bringing us alongside the puzzles faced by cosmologists and particle physicists in the late 20th century.
Astronomy, physics, math, chemistry- these are all subjects that in the past, would have made my stomach cramp, as if I've eaten a whole bowl of suspiciously looking beans...When I was a little kid those were my biggest fears.
I have a very vivid memory from school, where we had to solve just one equation and we could go home.
Needless to say I grew up resenting everything from math to astronomy.
I can happily say that Timothy Ferris has lighten a big-ass fire in my heart, and a big-ass love for everything that has to do with astronomy, physics, math and chemistry.
The book is structured in sections which cover first the development of our understanding of the scale of the universe, then the nature of time and its relation to space, and finally plunges into the subatomic ballet which is currently expanding our knowledge of how the universe was formed.Ferris has a light, elegant style which lends itself well to this kind of book, both in the lyricism with which it draws the readers through the early stages and in the skilled use of metaphor which allows him to illustrate concepts in quantum physics, although these come so thick and fast toward the end that you'll not so much struggle to understand as remember them all.
COMING OF AGE IN THE MILKY WAY is a wonderful but challenging book; the latter quality is particularly evident when Timothy Ferris discusses Quantum Mechanics or String Theory.
In the end, though, a 5 star book is one I know I will return to, and I can't imagine not returning to this book.In less than 400 pages, Ferris manages to describe the history of humanity's understanding of the universe, from the pre-Socratic Greeks to String Theory.
In the end, though, this book gets the 5 star rating because of Ferris' prose.
La mejor obra de divulgación científica que había leído hasta la fecha, en 1995 (desde entonces otras también han entrado en el Olimpo, como el libro de Bill Bryson, los de Brian Greene...).
Explica las cosas desde el enfoque histórico, lo cual lo hace emocionante al tiempo que menos directo.
Cuando vamos avanzando en el tiempo vemos cómo los pensadores y las ideas cambian la concepción del universo, agrandándolo y enriqueciéndolo con multitud de nuevos conocimientos y detalles.
Asistimos a la mejora y refinación de los conocimientos acerca del Universo por parte de la Humanidad igual que podríamos maravillarnos de un niño pequeño que va aprendiendo cosas y obrando en consecuencia.
He does a good job of weaving together historical events, personalities, and the little questions.
Though he doesn't address it directly until the concluding chapter, throughout this book Ferris presents the human drive to know and understand our place in nature as specific questions have been posed.
Thus, Ferris builds from the immediate questions and applications to the larger question of human existence and in fact, beyond with his consideration of ET.
The only error I found was his referral to cell walls in human skin cells -- no animal cells have cell walls -- which does not detract from his point but is erroneous and therefore, annoying.
This is the best book I've ever read.
I made up the dates, because I don't remember when I read it.
It's a book to be savored and read a little every day, except that it's so interesting, it's hard to put it down.
I missed a lot of sleep because of that fact.Timothy Ferris puts so much together in this book, that it's impossible for me to describe.
In fact, I have to read it again, and vow to not devour it quite so quickly this time.
The most recent assessment of our universe reveals its energy output is only half what it was two billion years ago.
In trillions of years, what was once vibrantly pulsating Milky Way will become a cold, dark place.
How did we get to this point?This is the question Timothy Ferris tackled in his 1988 Coming of Age in the Milky Way. It’s an enlightening read.
I’m not scientifically inclined.
Ferris traces the story of European culture’s efforts to understand how the universe works while introducing the reader to the men and women responsible for scientific breakthroughs.
An excellent cosmological/astrophysical primer for liberal-arts-minded readers.Favorite quote = "The greatest of all the accomplishments of twentieth-century science has been the discovery of human ignorance." - Lew Thomas
This is an accessible history of cosmology and astronomy, substantially told through brief biographies, written by a popular science author who has won several awards for his work.
I’ve read a lot of books of history of science and they all tend to trod similar ground, timothy ferriss has written what is in many ways the same book. however it is not bad, by any stretch.
Covers the history of cosmology from the ancient world to the contemporary theories of the big bang and the inflationary universe. A bit slow in some parts, otherwise a good read.
Boring,Boring,Boring........setback...........not interestingAll the contents are old style, not interesting.
22"Newton himself did not believe that his theory had diminished the role of the deity/ As he saw it, the real miracle is existence itself, and he invoked the hand of God at the origin of the universe: 'The Motions which the Planets now have could not spring from any natural Cause alone, but were impressed by an intelligent Agent,' he wrote Bentley." pg.
271"By revealing that the observer plays a role in the observed, quantum physics did for physics what Darwin had done in the life sciences: It tore down walls, reuniting mind with the wider universe." pg.
Short and sweet audiobook read by the author. Is outdated in romanticizing of Christopher Columbus and overall paints a very pretty picture over some ugly truths. Is a fantastic read for the uninitiated or the young.
I think this is one of the best history of science books. I found the writing style engaging and the author moves the history along. His bios are all interesting, and his explanations of ideas very clear.
Taking a break, will resume again at later time.......
Comprehensive and for the most part readable, gets a little plodding towards the end but thought provoking and has many interesting personal stories of protagonists.
An interesting pedestrian overview of our evolution of understanding of the observable universe
