https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222078.The_Story_of_Art
Reflecting on my reading year 2016, I came to think of books that have meant a lot to me over the past decades, and the first one that came to my mind was Gombrich’s excellent introduction to art history.
For Christmas, I receive a much longed-for gift card to buy books that “will help me in my studies”, and I stand in a bookstore, one of those exquisite, inexhaustible bookstores on several floors that German university cities provide, and I am browsing through options.
H. Gombrich, is a survey of the history of art from ancient times to the modern era.
The book is divided into an introduction, 27 chapters each dealing with a defined time period of art history within one or several cultural/geographic contexts, and a concluding chapter summarizing the latest developments in visual arts.تاریخ نخستین خوانش (تورق): ماه سپتامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ هنر؛ اثر: ارنست جان گامبریچ؛ مترجم: علی رامین؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر نی، 1379، در 674 ص، مصور بخشی رنگی، نقشه، نمودار، شابک چاپ پنجم در سال 1387: 9789643124700؛ وازه نامه دارد، نمایه، کتابنامه از ص 639 تا 647 موضوع: تاریخ هنر از نویسندگان اتریشی - سده 20 متاریخ هنر گامبریچ یکی از آثار گرانبهائی ست که درباره‌ ی هنر نگاشته شده؛ مدخلی برای ورود به دنیای هنر است، از نخستین تجربهٔ هنری انسان در نقش‌ پردازی داخل غارها گرفته تا واپسین آثار هنری امروز جهان.
Θα κλείσω και με ένα απόσπασμα από την εισαγωγή του Gombrich, που έγινε η αιτία να με κερδίσει και με έκανε να το ξεκοκαλίσω όλο.«...η Τέχνη - με κεφαλαίο Τ - δεν υπάρχει.
Γιατί η Τέχνη με κεφαλαίο Τ κατάντησε σκιάχτρο και φετιχισμός.
Κινδυνεύεις να εξουθενώσεις έναν καλλιτέχνη λέγοντας του πως εκείνο που μόλις έφτιαξε δεν είναι "Τέχνη" παρόλο που είναι καλό.
Και αν δηλώσουμε σε οποιονδήποτε πως εκείνο που του αρέσει σε κάποιο έργο δεν είναι, όπως νομίζει, Τέχνη αλλά κάτι διαφορετικό, θα μείνει άναυδος.»
For someone like myself who (now) has a little knowledge of Art (the capital letter here is deliberate) and some sense of history -- but who has big gaps and oceans of ignorance about the topic -- this book was perfect.
Like one of our most knowledgeable 'friends' on the art circuit at goodreads, he is discerning, but not judgmental.
Indeed, Gombrich's account of the development of modern art - up until World War II -- is fabulous, though brief.
Από τα ωραιότερα βιβλία που βρίσκονται στη βιβλιοθήκη μου.Όσοι με γνωρίζουν ξέρουν ότι έχω βαθιά αγά
Twenty-eight chapters, mostly quite brief, but each a skillful, thoughtful rippling of the surface, with hints of depth and well-defined currents moving quickly and sure footedly through the eras and advances and changing perspectives on art and the role of the artist.
Of course, what he is sharing is not new to him, but sharing the works and his insights with the reader is new and exciting to him, and the enthusiasm is infectious.
The intended audience is younger readers than myself, high school and college age readers or adults new to art history.
But I found the book not just enjoyable but helpful and insightful.
Non ci si può lamentare, poi, che la parte dell’arte comunemente nota come “contemporanea” (quella dei musei modernissimi, per intenderci, fatta di action painting e installazioni) non sia tanto approfondita: è pur sempre un libro scritto nel 1950 e ampliato in parte negli anni successivi.
We cannot complain, then, that the part of art commonly known as "contemporary" (that of ipermodern museums, to be clear, made of action painting and installations) is not so thorough: it is still a book written in 1950 and expanded in subsequent years.
Kitapta fotoğraflanan eserlerin bir kısmını kendi gözlerimle görebildiğim için mutlu olmuşken bundan sonraki müze gezilerimde önceden bu kitabı bir karıştırıp “burada da bunu görmek lazım” demem çok muhtemel bundan böyle.
Bunların yanında, kitapta benim için, günümüze ulaşan pek çok Antik Yunan/Roma heykelinin aslında -kendi dönemlerinde bile- replikadan ibaret olması, onların vakt-i zamanında tıpkı Endülüs Sarayları gibi renkli tasarlanmış olması, ilk Empresyonistlerin geleneğe sıkı sıkıya bağlı olan otoriter sanat okullarına karşı verdikleri mücadeleler gibi pek çok yeni bilgi vardı.
1600’lü yıllarda bile İtalya’daki sanat okullarında artık üretilebilecek yeni bir teori, aşılacak bir perspektifin kalmadığına dair inanç yaygınlaşmış.
What a monument!
I'm not a regular in the history of art, but I wanted to throw myself still in this reading.
Much good has taken me, it took me a few weeks to deal with them, but I do not regret it!
Are discussed painting, drawing, sculpture and even architecture, since the earliest human societies until the 50s the whole is decorated with beautiful illustrations.
Unless you have a real need for the pocket edition (small footprint), I advise rather publishing "beautiful book".
Indeed, the technical constraints imposed grouping illustrations at the end of the paperback edition, which requires incessant round trips.
Gombrich's Story of Art is a great survey (western-oriented however) of art for those who wish to know the big names and get familiar with some of the more common works.
He covers all the various periods in a sufficient amount of detail without sounding pedantic or academic which is a challenge when explaining art history.
I would just lament the lack of information about art in China, India,.
S America and of course Africa, but that is kind of how Europeans have always viewed art, isn't it.It remains nonetheless a great starter for someone who wants to get their feet wet.
بینظیره. حتا اگه به عنوان تفریح و علاقه هم بخونید، خستهتون نمیکنه، ناامیدتون نمیکنه، مهربونه، روزای خوبی میسازه براتون
بی‌نظیره. حتا اگه به عنوان تفریح و علاقه هم بخونید، خسته‌تون نمیکنه، ناامیدتون نمیکنه، مهربونه، روزای خوبی میسازه براتون
4.5/5Η αλήθεια είναι ότι όταν το αγόρασα, ως βιβλίο αναφοράς για τη βιβλιοθήκη μας, δεν πίστευα ότι θα το διάβαζα ολόκληρο.
Μετά το πρώτο ξεφύλλισμα, σκέφτηκα να ρίξω μια ματιά στην εισαγωγή.
Λίγο, λίγο, λοιπόν το προχωρούσα ανάμεσα από άλλα αναγνώσματα και χωρίς να το καταλάβω, είχα περάσει το 1/3 του βιβλίου.
Από ένα σημείο και μετά του αφιέρωσα εξ ολοκλήρου την προσοχή μου και ομολογώ πως το ευχαριστήθηκα!
Βέβαια, μία ανάγνωση δεν φτάνει και συχνά θα πρέπει να ξαναγυρίζω σε συγκεκριμένα θέματα για να τα θυμηθώ αλλά πιστέψτε με αξίζει τον κόπο!
Autodidatti di tutto il mondo, uniamociAntefatto: al Liceo, in un impeto autonomista, la mia professoressa di disegno decise di saltare il programma triennale di storia dell'arte, consentendomi di beneficiare di cinque anni di proiezioni ortogonali (ricalcate alla finestra dalle tavole altrui).Questo era l'alibi.Fino ai 30 anni circa non mi sono mai molto interessato d'arte, fino a un ponte del Primo Maggio trascorso tra Siena e Arezzo.
What particularly drew me to the book was what I perceived to be its inordinate focus on medieval and especially Renaissance art.
Of the twenty-eight chapters included in the book, about five mostly focus on Western medieval images (6 and 8-11).
Another six chapters (13-18) focus on the art of the Western Renaissance.
Most surveys of art history to which I had been previously exposed paid scant attention to medieval art and they sometimes did not give the Renaissance the space that I felt it deserved.
همیشه وقتی روبروی یه اثر هنری می ایستادم و نگاهش میکردم با خودم فکر میکردم باید به چه چیزهایی دقت کن
Divulgazione per tutti Un ottimo libro che permette e ha permesso a moltissimi di farsi un'idea sull'oggetto. Praticamente privo di snobismo ed elucubrazioni fumose quanto dubbie. Appare di prima lettura un po' cagionevole sull'arte moderna e contemporanea; a parer mio no. L'effetto è senz'altro dovuto alla pressione che subiamo continuamente in merito alla diffusa e falsissima credenza che i geni dell'arte siano quasi tutti nati negli USA nel XX secolo ed in particolare a NY e LA.Mi permetto di schifare questo assurdo stereotipo perché non ho alcuna ritrosia ad ammirare - anche se da profano - l'arte contemporanea.
The title of this book should be "The Story of Western Art," because that is what 95% of this book is. Western Art. The "Primitive Art," "Looking Eastwards" and "Modernism" section are an insult and should have been left out of the text along with his random snide comments. Othewise, this makes a nice commentary on Western Art. It's enthusiastic and reads like a "story."
Από τα καλύτερα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει!Προσωπικά είχα αρκετή επαφή με την τέχνη πριν το διαβάσω πρά
کتاب به شدت خوبی بود.
البته همون طور که نویسنده در انتهای کتاب اشاره می کنه، روند دار کردن هنر تا حد زیادی امکان پذیر نیست و نمی شه خیلی قانون مند سبک ها رو پشت سر هم قرار داد.
به این دلیل که همیشه افراد نو آور بودن و شاید مثلا گذشته ها کسانی بودن که کتاب یا اثری خلاف عرف و سبک غالب جامعشون نوشتن و اینا یه طورایی توی این تقسیم بندی ها حذف می شن.اما در نهایت مجبوریم این طور تقسیم بندی کنیم.کتاب جدا مفیدی بود و تنها ایرادی که داشت بررسی بسیار بسیار کم تاریخ هنر شرق بود.
ایران در اون به شدت کم سهم بود و چین حتی .
این تنها ضعف این کتاب ارزشمند بود
This is a thick and tremendously heavy book, but only physically heavy, and Gombrich is far from thick in his treatment of art down the ages. Read it lying face-down on the floor. Use it as a door-stop.The reproductions are exquisite in colour and detail, and of course it can be dipped into at leisure and as the mood takes. The Italian Renaissance is comprehensively covered.I wanted to buy this book several years ago but thought £25 was a bit steep, then found it last year on sale in Central London at half price and could no longer resist.
I do not think so.” And so begins the dynamic struggle of emotion and reason that we follow through the history of art.This book impresses as much by its layout and editing as by the text and pictures themselves.
These little pictures are the only ones not actually referred to in the text, and again add non-text context, while bringing the reader closer to the artists.This approach succeeds in impressing the reader with the most important concepts in art history, since they are the ones that naturally recur throughout the story.
Walking through a bookstore, perusing books and judging them by there covers, is a real pleasure and one we will be denied access to as everybody shops online, I am pretty sure we will see high street bookshops closing down soon unless they can figure out a way to compete with Amazon.
It took so long beacuse I wanted to concentrate and take it all in, this book covers the whole of art history from early cave painting to post-modernism, that’s a lot of useful information, also, it’s not just reading the words but taking the time to look carefully at each image and it’s not the sort of book you can read in the bath or in bed because you have to keep refering back to plates.
Nuostabus vadovas po meno istorijos platybes. Planavau šią knygą įveikti per metus (visgi tai ne romanas su intriguojančiu siužetu), tačiau smalsumo vedama sukrimtau daug greičiau. Puikiai sudėliota meno chronologija, atsakanti į klausimus kas, kaip, kur, kodėl. Patiko greta istorinių faktų organiškai įsipynę įdomesni faktai iš menininkų biografijų. Verta garbingos vietos asmeninėje bibliotekoje.
یکی از بهترین کادوهایی که به خودم دادم.
Μια εξαιρετική εισαγωγή στην Ιστορία Τέχνης.
It has all the biases you'd expect: referring to certain cultures as "primitive"; largely glossing over any art outside Europe; always defaulting to the male pronoun and in fact only naming one (**ONE**) female artist.
This is really "The Story of Western European Male Art".
I think ultimately that's a great goal, and if you're intimidated by art, start here.If someone could edit this book, by taking a more global view of art and taking the time to find, oh, maybe just one or two more female artists (jesus christ), this would deserve 5 stars.
کتاب در مجموع به عنوان یک کتاب تاریخ ارزشمند و ساده نویس است.
اما به گمان من یک ایراد اساسی دارد و آن اینکه کتاب هیچ ایده ای درباره ارتباط هنر و شرایط اجتماعی و تاثیر جریانات فکری و محیط کلی روشنفکری در اختیار خواننده نمی گذارد و صرفا هنر را به شیوه ای مستقل از اشکال گوناگون اندیشه ورزی بررسی می کند.نقش تاریخ در آن بسیار کمرنگ است.
ایراد دیگر آن توجه صرف به هنرهای تجسمی است.
این کتاب تاریخ "هنرهای تجسمی" است نه تاریخ هنر.
اما در عین حال کتاب مفید و خوشخوانی است و ترجمه خوبی هم دارد.
Gombrich, yo soy tu fan, pero este pedazo de manual nunca fue La Historia del Arte.Dicho sea esto, te lucís como el mejor sintetizador de la visión europea del arte en 1950. Quien quiera entender los movimientos posmodernos (su suceso entre los críticos y coleccionistas; la falta de interés en y de la sociedad civil), encontrará en Ernst un interlocutor bien formado y característico de la época.
Akla estiğinde, ara ara bakılacak bir eser değil de, isminde de belirtildiği şekilde öyküsel yanı olan, baştan sona hızla ve merakla okunabilecek bir kitap.
Sanat tarihiyle ilgili bir başlangıç eseri olarak kabul edilse de kitapta yer yer hayli derinleşen tespit ve yorumlara da rastladım.
Bir eksik olarak özellikle Picasso’lu, Dali’li, kübist ve sürrealist akımların biraz fazla hızlı geçiştirilmesini, bu akımlara mensup pek çok önemli sanatçının kitapta isminin dahi anılmamasını belirtebilirim.
Son olarak, kurgusal bir eser gibi baştan sona aralıksız okunmaya böylesine uygun bir eserin, biraz da yapısı gereği bu denli ebatlı baskılarının olmasının mekanik okunabilirlik açısından bir mahzur oluşturduğunu söyleyebilirim.
I thumbed through a much older (perhaps first) edition of this book when I was away from home and looking for something to read.
I was immediately hooked by Gombrich's enthusiastic writing.
When I returned home, I was extremely pleased to find that the latest edition was lavishly illustrated and updated to reflect more recent times.
The art is so much more interesting against a backdrop of history and biography.True to the title, the book really does read like a story.
It's a seamless narrative of art over time.
