https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77426.The_Fortune_of_War
"A noble spread of sails, upon my word"- Patrick O'Brian, The Fortune of WarThere is a danger in writing a review of these books too soon after finishing them.
The edge becomes as layered as Caesar's hair.As always, I love O'Brian's attention to Aubrey and Maturin's friendship and how he further explores the two very distinct aspects of manliness and honor, war and intelligence, love and loyalty.
One of the other parts of this particular book I adored was its focus on the American Navy during the War of 1812, specifically around Boston and Nantucket.
Granted, to be sympatico as book besties, you too would need to be down with the Austen-esque style, the Napoleonic War setting, as well as the sailing, naval warfare and spying subject matter.
The Fortune of War is also intriguing because up to this point in the series it's been all about the British and their fight against the French.
Now the British are fighting America, and things get a little weird for American readers.
On a personal level, I really enjoyed the setting for the later half of the book, having grown up in Massachusetts and spent a good amount of time in Boston, the principle location for much of the story.
Like one of the frigates described here, the series pushes on with all sails hoisted proudly, with a fair wind pushing the friends forward to distant, exotic shores.These winds were actually tempestuous in the last installment (Desolation Island), describing one of the most fraught with danger and disaster journeys, as plague, Dutch raiders, hurricanes, icebergs, mutiny on board and hostile American sloops prevent Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin from reaching their destination in Botany Bay. I was expecting the follow up to show me an episode at the Antipodes, but nothing of much interest seems to have happened there, and the story picks up a few months later, as the battered HMS Leopard reaches Pulo Batang, a former Dutch colony that is now of interest to the British crown.
A grand series is this & i’m sure it gets better with every read, each tale easier to get into than the last, much smoother in its storytelling & this time even a little backfill (via a despatch letter) as the story continues straight after Desolation Island which is most welcome to this reader as he ages......
and the best bit is that Dr Maturin features a lot more in this episode & it makes for grand reading too as the story goes away from the usual fare/formulae in the pursuit of his remit.....
One of my favorites, in which Stephen gets to be seriously badass.There are two ship battles, both based on historical battles, complete to living commanders.
To get Jack Aubrey in, he has to be a guest, and then a prisoner of war.
We also see them in a shipwreck.
It's interesting to see Jack under extreme duress, in circumstances he cannot control, and Stephen's internal life, while always fascinating, brings him near to discovery.Diana Villiers is back, complicated, in as much turmoil as Stephen, but rises to the challenge, whether it's rescuing her diamonds from a hecatomb or shooting rats in a nasty little cabin while warfare booms and thunders overhead.A very fast read, with so many great one-liners and deep character studies, coming to a startling close rather than a real end: it is truly the first in a long connected series of books.
https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m000...Description: Captain Jack Aubrey, R.
He and his friend Stephen Maturin take passage for England in a dispatch vessel.
When Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr Stephen Maturin are forced to abandon ship in the South Atlantic they are picked up by the Royal Navy frigate, Java, in pursuit of an American heavy frigate, Constitution.
Jack and Stephen are taken as prisoners-of-war to Boston – where Stephen’s former lover, Diana Villiers, has become the mistress of an American diplomat.
Dramatised by Roger Danes.Captain Jack Aubrey...................................DAVID ROBB Doctor Stephen Maturin.................RICHARD DILLANE Diana Villiers......................................CANDIDA BENSON Killick.................................................................JON GLOVER Bonden..................................................................SAM DALEJohnson..................................................STRUAN RODGERPontet-Canet...................................NICK UNDERWOODClapier....................................................STEPHEN HOGANJaheel Brenton...........................GERARD MCDERMOTTLt. Babbington..................................................DON GILETCaptain Lambert......................................SEAN MURRAYChads..........................................LIAM LAU FERNANDEZ
From BBC Radio 4 - Drama:Patrick O’Brian’s naval adventure is set in 1812, when Britain was at war with America and France. Featuring Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr Stephen Maturin.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m000...
Like peeling an onion, the reader discovers in the layers that Patrick O'Brian has not only provided some incredible naval action with the great guns and all; but has also taken the opportunity to provide a significant amount of backstory and extensive character development associated with both Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.
Finally, the reader is given the 'bonus' of the showdown between U.S.S. Chesapeake and H.M.S Shannon, in a brilliant description of two frigates mauling each other yard-arm to yard-arm.This is a dangerous and heady brew that Patrick O'Brian has served up in the pages of The Fortune of War; and, oh, so wonderful to partake in from the first page to the last.
They were going home, but were captured by an American ship and taken to Boston, as prisoners of war after the War of 1812 broke out between England and the United States.
Jack was hurt badly and Stephen was not sure he was going to save his right arm for a while.
Stephen spends much of his time, when not with Jack, trying to avoid French agents who want to kill him.
Stephen and Jack were not locked up in a prison.
They spent a lot of time trying to make arrangements to be exchanged, but the Americans did not like Jack and did not want to let him go.
In which Maturin and Aubrey become prisoners of war of the newly formed United States, both are suspected of being spies, and Diana Villers is back.
Aubrey and Maturin are in fine form once more--their banter is top notch, and I love the little moments where the reader can see how one sees the other.
And while we get deep in Maturin's head while he ruminates on his need for his diary andd an enduring love to combat his crippling depression, the reader also gets more insight into Aubrey.
I'm especially interested in this one since the Americans are going to war with the British.
There's a nice set up bridging from Desolation Island to this book where you find out that neither Lucky Jack nor Doctor Maturin approve of war with America, for varying reasons.
So that leaves us free to watch as the inevitable war looms nearer and nearer.I'm in the early chapters and really wish that O'Brian (or his publisher?) hadn't felt the need to recap the entire series up to this point.
As others have mentioned I actually did feel conflicted during the battles between British and Americans.
Overall she seemed less the callous and bitchy femmy fataly than in previous books.
My only regret is that a stupid American ship prevented her and Stephen from tying the knot before the last page.
Oh well, maybe in the next book.
I really enjoyed the extended portion of the plot that takes place in Boston, where Jack & Stephen are prisoners of war during the War of 1812.
The scenes in the Asclepia where Jack indulges in tomfoolery among the insane and yanking the chains of American bureaucrat interrogators were HEEHEElarious.Let's see, what else was awesome in this installment?
Naval warfare in this age just seems so preposterous in these books that I have difficulty believing it, but by all reports O'Brian was a fastidious scholar, so I guess I have to.
Even drabogues.Clearly somewhere along the lines of 'trollop,' but no dictionary I could lay hands on contained 'drabogue.' I found this mention of the word on a Patrick O'Brian mailing list, but remained unsatisfied.
Whereas all that you say, sir, is instantly comprehensible''Why, sure,' said Evans, in his harsh nasal metallic bray, 'the right American English is spoke in Boston, and even as far as Watertown.
Boston, sir, is a well of English, pure and undefiled.''I am fully persuaded of it,' said Stephen.
But once you’ve met the cast of fantastic characters and can make your way around a British man-of-war or frigate, feel free to dip into any book for a vacation from the mundane world.
The books revolve around the friendship of Jack Aubrey, a staunch mariner working his way up the ranks in the British navy, and Stephen Maturin, nominally Jack’s ship’s surgeon, but also a true physician (no, ship’s surgeons weren’t necessarily degreed medical men), naturalist, and spy.
If you think you’ve never heard of Patrick O’Brian’s work, have you heard of the movie Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World with Russell Crowe?
it probably says more about me than the books that i can't stand Diana and Stephen's obsession with her annoys and exasperates me.
also, i think Stephen's behavior in this one either stretches credulity or makes him kind of a monster; i definitely think less of him in this book than any other.and no pullings, which made it all the sadder.here's hoping the next journey is better!
I love this series. I love how fleshed out Jack & Stephen are, how O'Brian fits in little fun moments between them in story full of life-threatening adventures. O'Brian's style and evident research continues in strength through book 6, with extra emphasis on spycraft and the ins and outs of Stephen's complicated heart. The Aubrey/Maturin remains my go-to definitive work when I long for the Age of Sail, and I look forward to the rest of the series.
Having been disappointed, on reading Desolation Island, to find that although Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin had set out for Botany Bay the book didn't actually get them there and readers were therefore deprived of the opportunity to see Stephen encountering a wombatt, I was pleased to find that the next in the series starts with them arriving in the East Indies having called at Botany Bay and taken on board a number of wombats, one of which is attempting to eat Jack's best hat as the book begins.
Sadly for wombat-fanciers (although happily for the wombats, given ensuing events) they are left behind in Cape Town as Jack and Stephen take ship back to England where Jack's new ship, the Acasta is waiting for him, while Stephen is needed to undertake more intelligence work in Spain.
There are some griping and fascinating episodes with the usual engrossing stuff about Steven's natural philosophy and work as a secret agent as well as some thrilling battle action.
The books are so perfectly paced, with some calmer, quieter but still engrossing passages and some quite thrilling action sequences.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
They are that rare thing; fine literature which are also books which I can't wait to read more of.

An action-packed sixth novel in this 20 book series.
Possibly over-packed with twists and turns, thus lacking a coherence, but full of gripping and exciting episodes."Captain Jack Aubrey, R.
N., arrives in the Dutch East Indies to find himself appointed to the command of the fastest and best-armed frigate in the Navy.
He and his friend Stephen Maturin take passage for England in a dispatch vessel.
But the War of 1812 breaks out while they are en route.
Bloody actions precipitate them both into new and unexpected scenes where Stephen's past activities as a secret agent return on him with a vengeance."
13 Nov 2018 - recommendation through Bettie. WooHoo and Many Thanks! Listen here - https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m000...
I love these books, and always look forward to the next one. The characters grow and change and this time around the past catches up with Steven and things don't go so well for Jack, but by the end of the book both are facing the future with more excitement than dread. It was interesting to be in the US for most of the book and be able to picture the setting a bit more. I will be glad to be back on the high seas in our next offering--as will Captain Jack Aubrey.
As this is happening our erstwhile pair are ordered back home - Aubrey is promised a ship of the line and Maturin, whose intelligence time bomb has yielded results, is wanted at the Admiralty.They both set off on La Fleche bound for England.
Aubrey and Maturin are taken to Boston as prisoners of war.In Boston, Maturin is reacquainted with Diana Villiers, who is enjoying the protection of the US intelligence agent Harry Johnson.
Aubrey, Maturin, and Villiers escape Boston and are picked up by HMS Shannon in Boston harbour.HMS Shannon challenges the USS Chesapeake to combat on open sea.
This is book 6 of Patrick O'Brian's 21 volume historical fiction work about Jack Aubrey, a 19th Century British Sea Captain.
As is usual with all of the O'Brian books I have read so far, this book offers an amazing look into the forgotten world of sailing ships and the British Navy at a time when they were the most powerful navy in the world.
To read an O'Brian novel, is like being transported in time back to the early 1800's, and being set down on a British man O' war.
The French and an American intelligence officer, Johnson, who in the meantime has become the consort of the lovely Diana Villiers — Stephen’s heartthrob — who has been known to pass on intelligence herself, suspect Jack of intelligence gathering.
The pair and Diana escape with the assistance of a friendly American and sail out to the Shannon, Captain Broke.
Soon the Chesapeake sails out of Boston to give chase and battle.
But you will have to read Fortune of War to learn the outcome of the battle.
I think I got a little bit too eager about this one--not that it was bad, not in the slightest, but more that I was slightly disappointed that it wasn't quite as fantabulous as I was hoping.There was some great Stephen mileage, to be sure, but not nearly enough Jack.
Even when we get some good Jack mileage, it's only passingly touched upon.
Given how freely Stephen was wandering around Boston, it certainly could have been possible for him to have picked up some instruments somewhere.
Prisoners in Boston, Stephen finds himself the interest of an American intelligence officer who is rather chummy with the French, and his identity as a secret agent puts him in an extremely vulnerable position.
And then there’s the matter of Diana Villiers, who has run away with this very intelligence officer but now finds herself a cast-off.If anything, this erudite, slyly humorous, suspenseful, thoroughly entertaining novel is even better than its predecessor.
Like really every book in this series it's exciting, and well written and full of allusions and call backs and foreshadowing and just real dang good.
I think I like this entry in the series particularly because even though there're two excellent sea battles and a harrowing lost at sea and starving portion, it's mostly a Maturin novel.
What's more this is when his relationship with Diana starts up again, and I know there are plenty of turbulent times ahead but it's exciting to see that start up again.Anyway, an incredible excellent novel, and obviously if you've gotten this far in the series you know they're for you.
And yet the final third of the novel features some deft maneuvering by Aubrey, both on land and at sea.
O'Brian's solution to the problem of tying his protagonists in to real world events is to make them passengers on real ships, present at real events.
And for those keeping track, this novel features the return of the wonderful Diana Villiers and ends with what looks like some kind of permanent rapprochement between her and Maturin; presumably the following novels tell the tale of whether this alliance holds or not.
"The Fortune of War" is the sixth book in Patrick O'Brian's amazing Aubrey/Maturin series of historical novels about the British Navy (for further explanation, and a review of the first book in the series, see my review of "Master & Commander").
"Lucky" Jack Aubrey's vessel is defeated and captured which sets up the action on shore in the city of Boston while the officers of the vessel await exchange.There are some difficulties with the exchange because of Aubrey's conduct towards some American sailors in a previous book.
