https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/991531.Miracle_Cure
I’m aghast.
I’ve forgotten to review a book.
A Mister Coben book, I might add!
Loved this as much as any of his others, but not so much the medical theme.
He loves his all star all American basketball, doesn’t he?!
This was an interesting one, a missing protagonist, a beautiful heartbroken wife/model/business woman at the top of her empire, a cop best friend making sure she’s ok without him.Largely set in Sydney, which was a fun addition and at the start of this one HC states his apologies for his novice form as this is one of his first.
Love this guy’s books.
This is only my second novel that I have read by Harlan Coben and it won't be my last.
I wasn't disappointed it was an enjoyable read that grabbed my attention right away.
It was a fast-paced, quick and easy read with an interesting plot.
I was able to guess who done it but it was still a shocking and suspenseful read as the climax was executed very well!
Going to have to read one of his more popular titles very soon.
What if there was a cure for the AIDS virus?
Bigots, homophobes, nieve people."One of Harvey's colleagues, Dr. Bruce Grey has just returned to the US from vacation when he jumps to his death from an eleven story Hotel.
Then, one of the patients who has been cured is found murdered.
Miracle Cure is the sixth book I've read by Harlan Coben.
I liked the fresh storyline involving a private research facility and a Dr whose dedicated to finding a cure for the AIDS virus.
I wanted to skip to the ending several times but I persevered in reading it in entirety.
I listened to the Audio narrated by Scott Brick, who I love. In the author's note at the beginning, Harlan Coben pretty much apologizes for this book. So I thought, OH NO, but I actually liked this one. I like Harlan Coben's books...the only one that didn't fare well in my reviews was the one he actually narrated himself...not good. This book was definitely dated, but it was published in 1991 after all. This book takes hits of that nature in other reviews. He had some great twists though and it wasn't slow, so 4 stars.
Unfortunately, this early book by Coben is not really worth reading.
Coben says as much in the intro when he urges readers to put the book away if they've never read his books before.
Because it is so bad, you probably won't finish it.Knowing how good Coben was, and enjoying his other rereleased early book, PLAY DEAD, I read to the end.
Standard thriller plotting.
What isn't standard is the dated, agenda driven plot.
AIDS is at the forefront of the novel as Coben argues a debate that was going on 20 years ago, but isn't anymore.
Thought it was a new release, and didn't realize it was a re-release until I read the letter from Harlan Coben at the very beginning of the book.Sara and Michael were a celebrity couple..Sara a top reporter for NewsFlash and Michael a top basketball player for the New York Knicks.
Their good friend, Dr Harvey Riker, was in charge of the clinic which was looking for a miracle cure to AIDS.
Time was running out!!!The twists and turns in this book kept me guessing, shocked and intrigued until the very last line!!!!
Coben says in his intro that it's a very early book, and a bit rough in places...
The book's characters aren't terribly real, the plot twist is a little hackneyed, the writing is average and some of the political stuff is self-indulgent...But. And it's a big one.
But, we briefly lived in a world where a new author got a couple of books (at best), or just two chances from the major publishers to hit the big time.
I beggan reading Harlan Coben with his breakout book Tell No One. Wow!
Then one day, very out of character for me, I read Long Lost,the newest book in the Myron Bolitar series.
Recently I came across a Coben book, Miracle Cure, which was written over 20 years ago and had not read.
Still it was a good book which told the story of a tv reporter, her basketball husband, their friend a doctor involved in aids research and some higher ups in the governement.
While it may suffer from the years gone by and Aids is not what it was then, the book did have merit and I would recommend eading it.
When the day arrives when an author makes it big, and publishes one bestseller after another, publishers sometimes go back to earlier works that were initially rejected and publish them.
And, had it turned out that the serial killer was on the same basketball team as the hero at Livingston High, I would not have been the least surprised, such was the tone of the story.As I read, I began to notice an exceptionally high occurrence of typos.
Since I read the book on an iPad, it was easy to highlight them as I found them.
This is the quote I liked from this book: "You see: focus can be a dangerous thing.
In the ultimate pursuit of knowledge, you can easily become ignorant." I think this can happen with anything you are focusing on from knowledge, work, love, sex, hobbies, and it's so important to be able to focus to achieve and to change the world for the better, but it is also important not to be obsessive compulsive and have a narrow and one sided view and let your passions rule your life.
I'm on a mission to read all of Harlan's stand alone novels in order and this one is actually worst than his first.
The novel's voice seems to grate instead of flow smoothly.
Also I didn't like the plot it honestly reminded me of an episode of Scooby Doo. The characters seem like Harlan heard the characters from his first book were way too perfect so he gave these some flaws.
I like that Harlan gave a comprehensive overview of HIV and AIDS.
Although it was a little disturbing to read about the opinions people had when AIDS was first discovered but Harlan Coben captured it perfectly.
Not as good as his later work, but definitely worth reading for Harlan Coben fans.
This book, written in 1991, delivered for me.
I remember watching "And the Band Played On" (released a couple of years after this book) and crying as they listed the name of person after person who died.
I remember people dying from a disease that no one in power apparently cared about.
So, even though the book is about some people who get killed for a mysterious reason that is explained toward the end of the book, it is also about AIDS and a testament to how far we've come, at least in some ways.
A very good novel from a young Harlan Coben. Maybe not his best work because he does improve but certainly a great read.
Typical Coben...moves quickly, suspenseful, and really didn't see the ending coming....
Very fast reading, but you can tell it was one of his first works.
Kind of a typical Harlan Coben novel with twists and turns but alas also a lot of gore, very descriptive gore.
One thing that really stuck out as disappointing in a fictional story, and especially when written by a pro like Coben, was some of the character development.
In particular one character is presented as a mean-spirited, egocentric slut who hates her family but then unexplainably turns into a sweet, do-anything-to-help, love-my-family kind of person.
I chalk this up to being an early novel by Coben but still disappointing.
Still I like some of his other novels much better.
This one is a biblio-turd. Coben's later books are much better.
round up to 4.5 stars.
Such a good book. Coben is surely one of my favorites. Keeps me on my seat and guessing the whole time!
Being a Coben fan I was not impressed with this one. Characters were interesting and storyline was interesting but somewhere along the way it just flat for me.
Coben’s second book and I thought it was very very good. Set in the early days of AIDS and politics, it keeps you guessing and wondering what is going to happen next. A good thriller!
Definitely not one of my favorites of Coben's book but my edition did come with a letter at the beginning explaining that it wasn't one of his favs either. Still a huge Harlan Coben fan - a must-read author for any mystery/thriller reader.
I have started reading all of Harlan Coben books...aiming to be like the biggest fan ever !
Coben's characters never deceive without reason..they always have an excellent reason for lying...for deceiving..for disappearing...and even for murdering!'Miracle Cure' is Coben's second book after 'Play Dead' but it is my 8th or something...and to be fair, I have read this after books like 'Tell No One' and 'Gone For Good' so my review for the book may be a little biased.
On the other hand, the politicians who look down upon AIDS and the people who suffer from them provide an excellent counter argument.
Their family, friends and acquaintances all seem to be connected to a conspiracy involving serial murders, lies, suicides and other such gruesome acts all apparently related to a top secret AIDS clinic.Miracle Cure is an old book having first been published in 1991.
It was brought back into print last year As a result, a lot of the issues addressed in the book have a dated outlook to them.
You therefore get an excellent story, as well as education, albeit dated, into the goings on of the medical world in terms of AIDS and other pertinent issues.
Là où je considère cette lecture pertinente, c'est dans son retour en arrière et le regard assez glaçant qu'on porte sur l'époque (le tournant des années 90).
Le Sida était associé au milieu homosexuel, une “punition divine” selon les puritains, donc c'était du gaspillage que d'attribuer des aides financières pour la recherche scientifique, au détriment d'autres maladies qui touchent un panel plus large de la population.
Ce Coben vieillot s'en tire à bon compte : sans être exceptionnel, il tient ses promesses et fait passer de bonnes heures de lecture.
Friends of Sara and Michael’s are researching AIDS and, though this has been kept a secret, they think they’ve found a cure.
One of the head doctors has committed suicide (though the reader knows at the start that he was also murdered), and there are financial and political concerns for the AIDS clinic.
This is one of Coben’s earlier novels and my edition has a brief introduction by the author that he realizes it is dated, but he still likes the book.
But, it’s still a good story.
But, I think I had who was who figured out by the end.
I didn't realize the disease was AIDS and that the book was originally written in 1991 and was just re-released in 2011.
Some of the characters opinions and views about HIV and AIDS are thankfully dated, but the book was still very suspenseful and the ending was very surprising.
A scene with Sara and Cassandra toward the end seemed unbelievable and a pat solution to years of problems between the two characters, but does build on the story to prepare for the nail-biting conclusion.
Also, I feel the graphic scenes taking place in Bangkok did nothing to add to the overall story and greatly took away from my enjoyment and opinion of the book.
Miracle Cure by Harlan Coben.The author warns us at the beginning that this is one of his earliest books published and far from being one of his favorites.
We are informed that if we have not read any of his later books to turn away from Miracle Cure.
I have read several of his novels and especially enjoy the Myron Bolitar series.The aids epidemic has many on the verge of panic but there is one doctor in Manhattan who has dedicated his life's work to ending this disease and bringing hope to the hopeless.
Although this was one of Coben's earliest books his excellence as a gifted writer is apparent in the characters and situation(s) in this story.
There's an unusual warning at the start of this, from the author, that if this is the first of his novels that you're reading, to put it down and read a later one first.
It's an honest assessment that it's not that good - but if you persist, as I did, because I have already read and enjoyed a handful of his later books, you discover that it's not that bad either.
It's just a rather cheesy medical thriller, which is now rather dated.
The medical details were rather inaccurate, and the characters not very believable, but overall it was a decent book, just far from his best.
