https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148337.Where_Eagles_Dare
A momentous read for me in many respects. The most famous book of my favorite author as a young teenager; I was given a signed first edition (signed not just by the author but by two of the actors in the film whose screenplay the author wrote before the novel) by my closest friends as a 50th birthday present; it's also the 1000th book I have added to Goodreads since I started loading my new and old reviews here just under 18 months ago (on 1.1.17). A classic MacLean in every respect.
The novel is in fact based upon the screenplay, rather than the other way around - slightly odd.I watched the film last night and I had to read the novel.
Supposedly sent in to rescue one of their own, their real mission turns out to be a lot more complicated—and the tension climbs as team members start to die off, one by one.
MacLean understands how to write an action thriller and I would recommend Alistair MacLean to read any day of the week.
MacLean wrote the book on WWII suspense thrillers. A team of allied specialists parachute intoGermany to rescue a captured American general. He team is led by a Brit, Smith, played in the movie by Richard Burton, aided by an American, Schaefer, played in the movie by Clint Eastwood. Worth reading. The movie is worth watching, as is the inspired Pinky and The Brain cartoon which pokes fun at the movie.
Aveam în jur de 14 ani când am citit cartea aceasta.
Este una dintre primele cărţi citite şi parcă am şi-acum în faţa ochilor colecţia bibliotecii Adevărul, romanul acesta fiind eterogen orânduirii celorlaltor cărţi.
L-am luat şi am început, calm, să citesc.
M-a ţinut în suspans o noapte întreagă.Cartea această are 5 steluţe din două motive: 1.
pentru că la vremea respectivă mi-a plăcut enorm; şi 2.
(10/5 steluţe) pentru că mi-a deschis pofta de literatură.*E ciudat cum am trecut, apoi, brusc, de la MacLean la literatură de expresie.*Andrei Tamaş,18 ianuarie 2016
Take a WWII spy plot. Add some action sequences and some plot twists. Then add some more plot twists. Then some more action and more plot twists. Then a few more plots twists and some spy stuff and action and more plot twists. Also, characters, add some of those if you have room, and some smart aleck-y dialogue (50 years ago we didn't call it "snarky"). A few more twists and you're ready to publish your Alistair MacLean novel.

Excellent story and movie.
Had I reviewed this in my thriller-loving youth, I would have given it five stars. It is the adventure story par excellence: the secret mission behind enemy lines carried out by a group of intrepid adventurers: the snowbound castle up in the sky: fights on the top a moving cable car: and double-crosses, double-double-crosses and (even) double-double-double-crosses.However, nowadays I find all such stories shallow, the adventure rather juvenile and the Anglo-centric view a bit nauseating. Hence the three stars.But if gung-ho adventure stories are your thing, you can't make a mistake with this.
This is based on MacLean's own script for the movie, which he wrote for his friend, Richard Burton. It is full-throated, roaring adventure, complete with a parachute drop behind enemy lines to attack a Nazi stronghold in the mountains of Germany, twists and turns double-crosses and triple-crosses, everything that made MacLean's novels so much fun. Guns, planes, explosions, what more can you ask for?
This year in the book exhibition I bought Alistair MacLean's suspense thriller "Where Eagles Dare" Mission:A team of 6 British special forces headed by Major John Smith and one American Lieutenant Morris Schaffer were airdropped behind enemy lines to rescue an US Army General George Carnaby having secret with him about D-day plan, he who had crash landed and is in the custody of Germans in an impregnable fortress, an inaccessible eyrie set between mountain and sky, Schloss Adler.
The book is below 300 pages and I feel one time reading is not enough.
It's been a long time since I read an Alistair MacLean novel so I grabbed one that was a favorite, and it didn't disappoint. Even though it's been years, MacLean is still a sure bet if you are looking for an entertaining story.Admittedly, this book is not like some of the other suspense thrillers MacLean has written, where readers are kept guessing who the killer/spy is until the very end. What this tale lacks in suspense more than makes up for it with the adrenalin factor. This book is a page-turner. Four stars.
It has double agents as well as speculated treble agents.(Kudos to Alistair Maclean!) The snappy exchanges between the main protagonist and his side-kick are amazing and so are the sky-drop scene and breaching the formidable and the inaccessible Schloss Adler, a castle where all the eminent German officials and the hostage to be rescued are located.
Why would I give it a '2.5 really' rating is because the transpiring of events, the build-up of the plot seems stiff and reeks with the scenic technical details which makes the book read-out like a movie script rather than a thriller book.
As a youth I have fond memories of the boys own type thrillers by Scottish born Alistair McLean, and on initial reading I recall that Where Eagles Dare was a first class page-turner.
The story starts off with a great flourish when Major Smith and Lt Shaffer together with their motley crew are sent on a perilous mission to the Schloss Adler, a fortress high in the alps of Southern Bavaria.
Amazing book.I think a good book must make you tremble, laugh, leave you speechless, hold your breath, make you eager to read it, make you sorry you finished it so fast.A good book should leave you with a big smile of satisfaction because you've read it. And it must leave you thinking about it long after you finished it.This book as all of the above.
John RolloPeriod 3Where Eagles Dare by: Alistair MacLean The story Where Eagles Dare started off a bit slow for me, but as the story went on, the action really kicked in. The story begins with a problem, an important American general is being held hostage in a secret Gestapo facility by the SS. Britain is America’s closest ally to the situation and is called in to help. They assemble a team of men to infiltrate the facility and the book is than filled with mysteries and unfortunate scenarios for
The story begins with a problem, an important American general is being held hostage in a secret Gestapo facility by the SS.
The story unfolds and asks the questions will they be able to save the American in time, and if so what other horrors might they uncover at this secret base and what lengths might they be forced to go to.
Make sure that you give it a chance because as I said it is slow to start up, which is the reason I only gave it 4 stars, but I guarantee it is worth your time.
A masterful spy thriller set in WWII.
A rag-tag group of MI-6 operatives along with one American OSS agent are sent to Bavaria, deep behind enemy lines to rescue a captured US Army general who has information on the Second Front (the invasion of Europe) before he spills all their secrets.
This is not an action war book one would expect.
Maclean's story is a page-turning thriller that includes misdirection, red herrings and double-crosses.
The dialog is smart between characters and the Germans are more than mere cookie-cutter characters.
Wonderful book.
Unusually this book is not a novelization, it was written at the same time as the script and as such it's practically identical to the film. However because of that quite a few sections read a little sluggishly as it's not as fast paced as the film. Where Eagles Dare is quite possibly my favourite 'Christmas Movie' from when I was a kid and the book was a slight disappointment (the films still rocks).
Bello, con un finale al cardiopalma, praticamente identico al film, che ho visto da ragazzina e che mi era molto piaciuto. Un onesto romanzo di pura azione, che non pretende di essere altro che quello che è. E gli riesce molto bene, sia pur con tutte le esagerazioni del caso.
It really stretched the bounds of credulity with its explosions, double, triple, quadruple agents (I used to make up convoluted plots like that when I was in high school and thought it was super clever- but one wonders that no one on either side really considers it a possibility with double.agents), The female characters seemed to be purely there to look good, follow orders (eg serve drinks), accept the incidental sexual harassment and did I mention look good?Mary we are told near the end is an experienced and resourceful spy, in another chapter we are told she knows how to act "professional" but throughout the book she spends more time mooning over the excessively unlikeable Smith than doing anything else.
I rarely read action or thriller books, but this one was exceptional. Loved it for the language, the descriptions and the setting of the book. And the thrill of it, of course. Every few pages had me exclaiming in shock. Very good book for anyone who likes to read.
I loved Alistair MacLean, his books talked about WWII, which fascinates me. My father fought in that War, oh the tales we heard! Being young girls however, those tales bored us to tears.Alistair MacLean captures the spirit of those days beautifully
[9/10]
It's Alistair MacLean. Need I say more?
Old time spy thriller. Be prepared to suspend belief, and enjoy some suspense.
Years ago (I was in grammar school-homestly) I had gotten this book from the library and didn't get more than a few chapters in.Now, I kind of get why my younger self had issues reading MacLean (out of four books I finished two and didn't complete the other two).
He moves it along better, or the reader of this audiobook does, than Clancy and Cussler.I've also seen the last half of the movie made from this book.
But, there is a traitor in the group, and Smith has to figure out who it is.The ending was not quite what I expected, no spoilers, and was more enjoyable than what I recalled of the movie's ending.
Where Eagles Dare isn't just the finest war novel, it's one of the finest novels of any genre.
The single flaw in the book is MacLean's annoying use of attribution adverbs (i.e., "Schaffer said reprovingly."), which was not uncommon for the time (Ian Fleming used them as well).
Few stories are worthy of being read twice; Where Eagles Dare NEEDS to be read twice.
The bonuses--which conveyed beautifully in the movie--are MacLean's humor and the romantic subplots.
Add to that perhaps the best ending of any fictional story.Dare I say this is my all-time favorite novel?
A great story carelessly written.
Except for the first chapter, it reads like the second draft of a finished novel.There are some interesting characters but they develop not by the author revealing their personalities to the reader but by the author gradually inventing them.A read that the MacLean wrote the book and screenplay simultaneously.
I think that explains the quality of the book's writing.The attempts by the author to have as few as possible people killed are at times absurd and though I have not read the screenplay, the movie doesn't follow the author in this regard.
If you are squeamish about your characters murdering anyone, I would have suggested war time espionage thrillers are not your genre.
A daredevil rescue operation in the high Bavarian alps by British intelligence officers inside Nazi Germany, surrounded by German soldiers is one of the best fictional stories I have read. It was immortalized in film and I really loved the film and probably one of my favorites. The book is close to the movie but the movie if course has more action elements. Knowing the story already the book was a bit predictable but caught me by surprise in many places where I was expecting something else. A really good book by Alistair Maclean.
Oh my god, this book was excruciating. The protagonist may be the worst action hero I've ever read. He keeps doing rash, stupid things, continually endangering his men and his mission through an inexplicable refusal to kill Nazis. (He thinks they should be sent to England to stand trial.) And yes, some of his men die for this vanity. MacLean dresses that up as heroism. I just sat there wondering why I bothered finishing the damn book.
this was touted as 1 of macleans best, and so i picked it froma cousin's place. cant say i liked it much tho - just abt ok. The action is good, the pace is slick and the twists are totally unpredictable. but the whole narrative seems to be more fit for a visual representation rather than reading pleasure. The WW II setting is also almost ancient history for us, so we dont even connect that much.Read if u r a fan, otherwise avoidable.
