https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148937.Gambit
Chess master Paul Jerin is fatally poisoned during a blindfold match at the Gambit Chess Club, and Matthew Blount, the club member who brought him the pot of hot chocolate, is arrested and charged with murder.
His daughter hires Wolfe to clear her father, and soon we are absorbed in one is Wolfe's best mysteries.
Fans of the series take note: this is the novel that opens with the not-to-be-missed scene of Wolfe burning Webster's Third International Dictionary a page at a time.
(Two reasons--among many--for Wolfe's rage: W3I includes "contact" as a verb and lists "imply" as one of the meanings of "infer".)
Everything is against him, but his daughter is convinced in her father's innocence and she hires the only person who might be able to help him: Nero Wolfe (and Archie Goodwin, obviously).Usually a typical Nero Wolfe novel (or a short story) is not so much about the mystery, but much more about character interactions and Archie Goodwin's witticism, and this is what makes the series really shine.
This book is all that, but it also happen to be a good mystery novel which will puzzle you as much as it did Nero Wolfe and his nemesis and friend Inspector Cramer and which is worthy the best of the undisputed Queen of Mystery Agatha Christie.
Another great Stout!
I could give you the particulars: a young woman comes to Nero Wolfe and wants to pay him $20,000 to exonerate her father who she believes has been falsely accused of murder.
Nero is too busy tearing pages out of a dictionary he finds deplorable.Also, after hearing the situation, he concludes that it is hopeless.
It will be impossible to prove her father's innocence.As you may guess, he does decide to take on the case and we are treated to several pages of Archie's hilarious narration of events.
It's what makes Stout's stories so worth reading.
Teve o seu valor, na sua época, e eu própria fui grande adepta deste tipo de literatura, mas hoje em dia para ler um livro destes, é essencial fazer o exercício de voltar atrás no tempo.O mais curioso é o personagem detectivesco, o "génio" mal humorado e arrogante, que resolve todos os casos sem nunca sair de casa.
Talvez isto tenha acontecido por eu enquanto leitora, ter começado por esta história em que a "carreira" de Wolfe como detective já vai longa na série.O detective que de facto sobressaiu nesta história acabou por ser o seu assistente, o narrador, que faz todo o trabalho de campo necessário à investigação.
I took a quick break from a disturbing read about the Holocaust to visit an old friend, Nero Wolfe.
Those of you who know me realize that I am a total fanatic for this series written by Rex Stout (I have not read the new books by Robert Goldsborough) and this one does not disappoint.
As are most of the Wolfe books, the story is short and full of surprises.
Another winner from Stout whose eccentric detective, Nero Wolfe and his able assistant Archie Goodwin who narrates the tale, have become icons in the field of crime novels.
Poor Kramer never knew what hit him until long after it had.A New York upper-crust chess club sets up a challenge in which a man plays several opponents simultaneously in a blind game--meaning he is told their moves as he sits in another room.
Archie has quit his job several times, but this is the first time in my experience that Wolfe fires him.An excellent, engaging and entertaining read in the best Stout tradition.
BOOK 60: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 2Hook=4 stars: I know a 'gambit' could refer to a chess move in which a players gives up a piece, intentionally, to advance his/her game, and was immediately curious as to how that would be used in a Stout mystery.
Interesting enough for a 4th star.Pace=4: A brisk, two-sit read.Plot=3: 12 men play chess against a single player in a 2nd room.
2 stars, plus one more for the original set of the story.People=3: Nero is his own person, original and fascinating.
I like the originality of the set, and Nero is, as usual, fascinating in the way he thinks.
Archie is getting smarter with every book, lately.
Great Wolfe, tightly plotted with no dull spots.
As enjoyable as any other Nero Wolfe book I have read. I found the solution a little confusing, but the mystery is not the part that i find so enjoyable in mystery novels, so that was fine. Archie and Wolfe and Cramer, etc., are all as fun to read about as usual!
When it is arranged for a chess maven to visit as a guest and to challenge twelve members simultaneously an unexpected event occurs: the visiting chess master suddenly falls over during play, clutching his throat, and dies.
The police determine that the arsenic was somehow introduced into his hot chocolate – a drink he always had when playing chess.
Suspicion immediately falls on the man who brought his cocoa to him from the kitchen.
Compounding his likely guilt was the fact that he took the cocoa cup and pitcher back down to the kitchen and rinsed them out.
This was a fun Nero Wolfe mystery.
The premise: a man (Paul Jerin) alone in a room, playing 12 games of chess with the boards and players in another room.
Paul Jerin is drinking hot chocolate, four men are bringing messages to him about the moves the twelve chess players each make.
One of the players brings him his hot chocolate.
Paul Jerin is poisoned and dies.
Can Wolfe prove that the man who brought him the chocolate did not poison him, and find the real killer?
In short everything that one looks for in a Nero Wolfe book.Read/reviewed 9/28/12
Nero Wolfe, “the grand master of detection” will always solve the unsolvable.
He also must convince Mr. Wolfe to take the case and convince all the suspects that they have to go to Mr. Wolfe’s townhouse for questions from the great detective.
In-between expect to find out about Mr. Wolfe’s Manhattan townhouse complete with five star cook, Gardenias that Mr. Wolfe is obsessed with and the best cup of coffee in town.
I like my books to have a little more edge, but if you want to read a classic detective novel then any Nero Wolfe novel is worth reading.
Sally Blount asks Wolfe to find out who killed Paul, a chess player at the Gambit club.
Her father, Mr. Blount has been accused of the poisoning murder.
He was the one who brought the chess player his chocolate drink just before Paul fell ill.
It appeared that no one else could have put something in the chocolate without being seen.
Wolfe and Goodwin finally realize that the person who killed Paul was trying to set up Mr. Blount, whose wife was very attractive.
When the first suspect is found killed, it took some thinking to figure out who else could have done it.
Plenty of enjoyable moments (Wolfe burning a dictionary) and light humor make this a good read. I am currently rereading many of the books in my collection and had fun becoming reacquainted with this one. Not a particularly difficult puzzle as I solved it the same time Archie did. However one does not necessarily read Stout novels for their unsolvable mysteries. Half the fun of these books is Archie's descriptions of Wolfe, the suspects, the orchids, and New York City. The adage about the destination versus the journey certainly applies here.
A fun read, mostly because of the witty repartee between Nero Wolfe and his assistant Archie Goodwin. A young woman wants to hire Wolfe when her father is accused of killing a chess master during a match. It looks hopeless, but of course Wolfe and Archie come through in the end. I'm reading as many Nero Wolfe books as I can find, just to see what they're like. I can see why they've lasted so many years. This one is 54 years old.

Real Who done it.I think this book was one of the best Stout has written. I am on a mission to read all of his books so I am looking forward to all of these gems. My first love is British Mysteries set in the 20's and 30's so this is a departure but I love the older feel of the writing.
The Nero Wolf novels have great characters and banter. This one also has a classic whodunnit mystery where all of the pieces are laid out early, but it is hard to catch until the last page because of the natural wrong assumptions you'll make.
Conundrum resolvedQuick entertaining read. Nero Wolfe is presented with an impossible task, but he devises a solution that results in exposing the true culprit. I found Wolfe's character, and idiosyncrasies quite intriguing.
I love Nero Wolfe books, but this one was not as good as the others I have read.
I read this in paperback, but the audio book was the only choice I was given in choosing this title here on Goodreads! This was a very good Nero Wolfe story -- one that I couldn't put down.
I enjoyed this one because Archie solved it. And even I figured it out before the reveal.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
4,3
Strong, although I found the ending underwhelming.
Loved this one! The verbal chess scene was a lot of fun.
I read this one in one sitting, and I could find no reason not to give it five stars. A great and very funny book.
In any case, it was through the tv show that I was introduced to Rex Stout, who wrote something like thirty-three novels and numerous short stories and novellas starring his famous private detectives, Nero Wolfe (played by Chaykin in the series) and Archie Goodwin (played by Hutton).
Playing opposite Wolfe is his assistant, Archie Goodwin, the younger, fitter, street smart detective who does most of the legwork (since Wolfe rarely leaves the house) and who in is his free time often find himself in the company of one young woman or another.
The lawyer opposes hiring Wolfe which means Wolfe must free his client's father without his cooperation.The language of Chess figures prominently in the story.
The scene where one suspect offers to hire Wolfe to suborn perjury to get the accused off is comedy gold, particularly as the man expects Wolfe to be on the hook for the crime and to protect him entirely.Overall, Gambit was surprising in that except for the actual culprit, the suspects turned out to be mostly decent and honest people, a refreshing break with the stereotypical sociopath-filled murder suspect family.Archie is good as always, and Wolfe is at his eccentric best.
So, for once Archie isn't the dark when the payoff comes.The only negative thing I can say about the book is that Stout did seem to be overusing the tape recorder to catch his criminals.
