https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185289.Dragon_Prince
read during my College YearsI Remember: completely overlong, bloated... some surprisingly good writing at times... a trashy epic... spousal abuse... rape rape rape rape rape rape... rape for both genders!... some actual dragonslaying... a bizarre soap opera filled with machiavellian intrigue... completely unappealing protagonists... continued reading just to see how bad it would get... helped me to dismissively reject the Fantasy genre during college (glad i got over that).
Which makes this book and the various series it spawn so interesting....Nowadays, female fantasy authors are a pretty common sight, so it's a bit shocking to consider just how ahead of its time Dragon Prince was in terms of what could be done in a traditional fantasy novel.
No final voyages to Valhalla here...more along the lines of a traditional romance, Lancelot and Guinevere, Romeo and Juliet, or any number of bodice rippers sold by the dozen made magnificent by the inclusion of dragons.Today it's a common enough formula, which makes this book something of a groundbreaker.

(My mom swore she'd never donate books without running them by me first again..
But anyways.) If only I'd listened to my mother (she'd advised against reading it).
But lo, I read them.
I'm talking about her ideas, and her views and portrayals of humanity - even her so-called "brightest" are people I'd never want to meet.
Among other people.In her defense, some of the worst scenes are so artfully awful that they are imprinted on my memory - not many authors can do that.
Suffice to say, unless you like rather despicable people, acts, and such, don't read this book.
Up until that point I'd been enjoying the (not so subtle) intrigues and how the characters felt like they truly influenced events around them, but I'm sorry, the entire concept of one of the protagonists I'm supposed to be sympathetic to hate-raping the daughter of his enemy is a massive big read X for me.
(hide spoiler)]The amount of character twisting involved in these events completely robbed me of any enjoyment I was having, which is really a shame because I otherwise very much liked the world this was set in.If you are unbothered by rape-y bits and can overlook the hypocrisy of the main characters becoming just like the evil, abusive enemy they fight so hard against (which could have been cool if it showed any signs of being intentionally done), then perhaps you will enjoy this more than I did.
One of my favorite series. Owes quite a bit to Dune, I think, but creative enough on its own merits. In series like this, you often get either great characters or great plotting, but this has both. Heroes with dark sides, villains with layers, love and family and politics and magic twine together to keep your interest through several generations.
Throughout the story, Rohan struggles with balancing his ideals for peacefully ruling his desert kingdom and the unavoidable need to wage war against those who would threaten that peace.
As much as it is about Rohan, it is equally about his wife, Sioned.
There is a healthy dose of action and war that I expect in a fantasy novel along with some political intrigue involving the new prince coming to power and working to institute his own ideals.
WinkI think that this is one of the rare fantasy novels that will appeal to male and female readers almost equally.
I'm giving this book a 5 star rating but you must understand I read this book a long time ago and in my mind it has always been 'The Book'.
I loved the way she described her characters, as if each of them was dear to her.
Everything in that book felt loved.
It is the book that first first made me want to create worlds and characters of my own.
I'd read fantasy and sci-fi books before but none touched me the way this one did.
I was hooked - I went out, got all the books in the series (both of them) and read them all back to back.
Dragon Prince is quite different from most of my favorite series, but it's stuck with me for over 20 years as a cut above most things that I've read.
It is far less action-focused than lots of fantasy, instead focusing more on politics, relationships, the nature of leadership, power, and the value of questioning norms.Unlike most 'political' fantasy this one still has quite a bit of excitement and action as well.
Unlike many 'relationship' focused stories this one highlights the fact that all of them carry imperfections and clashes.
It also flirted with grim dark well before that was a thing and is not afraid to kill off numerous ancillary and even main characters as the series continues.
I love how coming back to it always feels like coming home, and how encountering these characters is always like reconnecting with old friends.
I love the richness of the magic.
I love the dragons.
My perspective on some of the characters has shifted somewhat (for example, I'm much quicker now to call Rohan and Sioned out on some of their more hypocritical moves, and I have a LOT more sympathy for Roelstra's daughters, up to and specifically including Ianthe), but I love that, too - being able to get exasperated and/or sympathising with their flaws, in some new ways now that I didn't relate to before.
Actual rating: 3.5 to 4 stars.
Good set piece start, drifts away to rubbish. Has a positive review from Anne McCaffrey, the patron saint of lackluster writing.
Melanie Rawn writes total garbage. One or two good ideas littered with shallow characters, nonsensical plots, and anticlimactic endings. This book almost makes me wish I was illiterate.
Only a few times in the book did the characters think fond thoughts of each other that had nothing to do with their sexual relationship.
At the end of the book, I still don't really feel I know the characters and more worrisome, I don't like what I do know.Rohan is eventually kidnapped by Ianthe, Roelstra's oldest daughter.
Roelstra, despite his mistresses, has not been able to get a son, and Ianthe wants to conceive one with Rohan.
Sioned spurns Rohan's advances so he gets mad at her, and then all of a sudden, a few chapters later they're fine and lusting after each other like always.
Some aspects, mainly the depiction of the romance between the two protagonists, do feel very dated, but most of it still felt very fresh.It's basically a coming-of-age story - the coming of age of Rohan, who inherits the Princedom of the Desert at the start of the book; of Sioned, a Sunrunner and Rohan's destined wife; of their world, a conglomerate of Princedoms still mostly ruled by the sword rather than the law, something they aim to change.There's a plethora of interesting and complicated characters, on both the protagonists' and the antagonist's sides.
Romantasy or Fantamance?Dragon Prince, Melanie Rawn’s first novel, was ahead of the fantasy/romance genre curve in 1988.
Although worded differently and often approached from different angles, some themes are visited repeatedly.Despite these issues, the plotting of the princes and the romance of the main characters is engaging enough to keep the pages turning.
Dragon Prince is not for everyone, as it has far more romance and politics than action and adventure.
I’m looking forward to checking out some of Melanie Rawn’s other books set in the Dragon Prince world, as I have a feeling that the later novels may be even better.
When I was 15 and going through a very hard time, a girl I worked with handed me three tattered paperback books and told me that they would help me to feel better.
She then cautioned me that I couldn't keep them, though - they'd been handed down four times by that point, and the condition was that I had to read them, love them, and then pass them on.
What matters is that it's a fascinating and compelling story, filled with likable and interesting and very, very real people, and that it provided me with a truly excellent wormhole to disappear into whenever I needed to.
Her characters are not perfect people, even if they are idealistic--reality won't allow for idealism and they are forced to make decisions and break their own codes of honor time and again.
I enjoyed all of the political maneuvering in this book.
That's 90% of the book.
Because the entire thing is about power--not wanting it, wanting it, wanting more of it, how it can be a burden, wanting to secure it.
But it's also about love, and how that has power too.
Great book, interesting characters, and I am reminded on this re-read why I loved it so much when I first read it more than 20 years ago.
2.5 stars. It has been a long time since I read this and I have it on my list to re-read so my review may change at some point. My recollection is that this book was VERY SLOW and wasn't interesting enough to make me want to read the next book in the series.
Melanie Rawn's fantasy world full of Sunrunners, Princes and Dragons is one of the most beautiful creations I've read about. The Sunrunners are people who can send their thoughts out over sunlight to communicate or view things over long distances. They learn, inadvertently, that dragons possess this same power. Meanwhile, warring Princes and overly ambitious religious leaders make this story feel more like a political intrigue than a fantasy novel. And just a friendly warning: Rawn isn't afraid to kill off a character.
Another series of books I wanted to like, I was looking for something to read.... It didn't matter, and it didn't work. The books just didn't interest me they couldn't pull my interest in, much less hold it.I know a lot like these, I see the good ratings, but they're just not something I wanted to read, didn't finish the first.
This book is huge! What I thought was the first SERIES was the first book.The is a great sweeping book that is inspired in it's scheming and politicing.I'm re-reading both series (6 books total). I can't remember which book had what in it so I'll go through it again and rate aptly. It's taking me ages as DBF is visiting and I'm not getting much kindle time.
And there are dragons.At the time of this book, there is a High Prince who is only concerned with his own ambitions, and a prince-heir Rohan whose Prince father is known for his bravery in battles, and for uniting his subjects.
She has seen Rohan in a firey vision as her husband and they will be rulers together.This was a great first book, and the first trilogy (Dragon Prince, Star Scroll, and Sunrunner's Fire) are wonderful reads.
For me, this was an ok read...I finished it, but I probably would not read it again and it isn't staying on my shelf (its heading to the used book store next trip that direction.)At the time it was written, I'm sure it was innovative to have a strong female character as one of the main characters in the book and the departure from "dudes on a quest" style fantasy was a big deal...but in the intervening decades, there are series that are wayyyy more impressive in terms of characterization and plot and general complexity- so this feels kind of boring in many ways.The things that are supposed to be shocking and thought-provoking are mostly just distasteful or ho-hum.
Add to it the idea of an arranged marriage to an accomplished wielder of magic that he falls desperately in love with, but cannot reveal until after he has abused his search for his bride to win an advantage over a cruel rival, and you have the makings of an incredible political story.But rather than the typical power-struggle stories of traditional fantasy--dry and emotionless, or lustful and indulgent--Rawn captures the spirit of a woman's point of view and imbues the writing with passion and soul.
Her world has incredibly strong female characters, along with men who are uncomfortable with the idea, and they are all believable as they succumb to their own strengths and weaknesses.Very compelling read, accented by a well-crafted world of magic, knights in shining armor, and princesses who demand respect from the reader time and again.
I just plain like this series.Last time I reread the book I had plans to go on to The Star Scroll and never quite got around it it, so I'm happy that reading on with Judith will keep me going this time.REREAD: 15 June 2010 - 23 July 2010 (9/10)It's gone slowly, but I really enjoyed rereading Melanie Rawn's Dragon Prince.
But all in all, it was still a very enjoyable read and I hope to find the time to go back to the rest of the series before too long.
This was a re-read, although since I hadn't read it in many years I had forgotten most of the nuances of plot.
Due to violence, addiction, sexual situations and rape, I would recommend this to more adult readers.This story is set in a world of princes ruled by a High Prince.
It is filled with politics among princes, among mistresses, among Sunrunners (those with the ability to send their thoughts and observations anywhere the sunlight goes) and even about the hunting of dragons.
Sometimes the question is how far you will go to get what you want, what you are willing to give up to get there, and how clever your enemies are.
What an awful book. The writing is competent, which is what kept me involved for so long. But after the time jump (post-plague), I could see that we weren't going to be making much progress, plot and character wise. What miserable people.
Bought at 99p at a bookstore in London, I could not believe what a GREAT fantasy it turned out to be. Melanie Rawn is a wonderful creator of worlds and characters.
I liked this book better when I was younger. It lacks depth the depth that I remembered. And I know the ebook is missing parts. I read the paperback often enough to know which parts. Pretty disappointing. I’m rating it 3 stars for sentimental reasons.
