https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38457.Just_Above_My_Head
And there they sit, indeed, in your room, when you return, looking baleful and neglected, and you realize that some horrors need you far more than you need them, and, mercilessly, you begin to clean house.If Baldwin is criticized for writing fiction that reveals too much of the private self, then in inner conflict on page I revel.
They live in New York City and travel to London and Paris (like Baldwin), but this novel edges a bit to the South, where young singers, black men, realize just how much racism will change their lives forever.They are artists, gospel singers.
i read this book on the train and would often weep audibly while reading. all the commuters would stare and crane their necks to see what i was reading-- once an older lady who was sitting next to me patted my arm a bit while tears were rolling down my face. building community on the train through such honest beauty in the form of literature--breathtaking.this definitely goes on my favorite books ever shelf. quite possibly one of the best books that i've ever read. i will be going back over and over to this one.
He writes so sharply, almost viciously, about the inner thoughts and experiences of his characters--in this case, a Black family in New York in the 1940s-60s.
The book moved me to tears with its tender, tough, intimate, and devastating details of human lives.
The story simultaneously describes catastrophic events on a large scale, as well as tiny details and fluctuations of mood and experience that are somehow equally as catastrophic.
Then Baldwin links them together to explore the richness of everyday normal people just trying to get by--creating welcoming, family space in a world that isn't very friendly.
This book has a power of control and chaos.
I understand humanness when reading Baldwin like no other.
Yet, this is by far his best work for me.
I sit and marvel at how present these characters are to me.
That is a sign of brilliance, when nonfiction characters can't be played by any actor that we may no and love because these people are real.
He discovered a way to insert society, culture, nationality, race, civility, hurt, pain, discovery and love into the very marrow of single person that belongs and connects to you and your core.
This book is for reading and contemplating.
My absolute favorite of Baldwin, or anyone, ever. I haven't been as moved by literature since the time I read this novel. So painfully incredible and joyous to be lost in these words.
This is the best book I've ever read.
I wonder, more and more, about what we call memory. The burden - the role - of memory is to clarify the event, to make it useful, even, to make it bearable. But memory is, also, what the imagination makes, or has made, of the event, and, the more dreadful the event, the more likely it is that the memory will distort, or efface it. It is, thus, perfectly possible - indeed, it is common - to act on the genuine results of the event, at the same time that the memory manufactures quite another one,
The burden - the role - of memory is to clarify the event, to make it useful, even, to make it bearable.
It is, thus, perfectly possible - indeed, it is common - to act on the genuine results of the event, at the same time that the memory manufactures quite another one, an event totally unrelated to the visible and uncontrollable effects in one's life.
This may be why we appear to learn absolutely nothing from experience, or may, in other words, account for our incoherence: memory does not require that we reconstitute the event, but that we justify it.

His semi-autobiographical novel Go tell it on the Mountain, the beautifully written and symbolic Giovanni’s Room, and his collection of essays in Notes of a Native Son and The Fire Next Time provided a highly personal looks into race relations, homosexuality, and existential questions of identity.
Written in 1979, Just Above My Head marks Baldwin’s second to last novel.
Like his seminal works, this novel deals with issues of race, homosexuality, and identity.
Grief, incest, civil rights, religion, faith, identity, race relations, gospel and jazz culture, the rise from poverty to excess, family relations, and most important love all share a spotlight in Baldwin’s work.
He examines these points through his characters, reminding us that the basic truth of life, death comes to all black or white and maybe Baldwin’s beautiful intimate moments is him saying, grab the moment, live the moment because the end will come anyway.
Makes me appreciate my moments of happiness more, makes me want to grab them and hold them because these precious moments leave and we might not get them again.This long book is filled with lots of stories tied in with Baldwin’s musings, philosophy.
i think that i love baldwin's books about the strength of family the best--ones that follow queer families and chosen families and birth families through long, complicated relationships, and historical events, and coping with tremendous trauma and loss, and loving one another to various degrees of effectiveness through time.
i like the lack heroic characters--how they all fail sometimes, and then keep moving on and trying to figure things out and make things work.
i like how the relationships seem to evolve through time, how a lover can cease to be a lover and become a best friend who is also family.
everyone i love, i try to get them to read this book.
Yet it also feels timeless as when older brother Hall, who works in advertising describes the role of advertising in American lives: “…one learns, through advertising, that it is, therefore absolutely forbidden to the American people to be gloomy, private, tense, possessed; to stink, even a little, at any time; to grow gray, to wrinkle, to be sexless; to have unsmiling children; to be lusterless of eye, hair, teeth; to be flabby of breast, or bottom; to be gloomy, to know despair…” And again that timelessness is present when Hall describes Arthur’s fame: “…fame cannot be summoned; it strikes, like a hammer, and the trick thereafter, is to stand up under what has seemed to be a mortal blow.”That the gayness of Arthur Montana and several other characters is not described as particularly remarkable or even really frowned upon makes the novel seem contemporary.
I'm a fan of Crunch, one of the great characters in this book. I had the great pleasure of telling that to Mr. Baldwin at a book signing. So he signed my book, "To David, a fan of Crunch, peace, JB" Quite a thrill. I've only sought an autograph on two occasions. My other autograph is from the photographer Brassai. Both men have inspired me and my work.
I just so happened to finish this book on the anniversary of Jimmy's death. And, in some way, it's fitting. I really have no words to express how I feel right now. I loved it.
Aussi, je pense que je n’ai pas suffisamment de références biographiques et religieuses pour faire une analyse stricto sensu du livre.L'écriture est frappante, assez moderne (souvent lors d’introspections des personnages, où nous avons accès aux pensées principales des personnages, ponctuation et syntaxe bouleversées), très polyphonique, avec une double narration : Hall Montana, le narrateur « premier », et Arthur Montana, son frère.Suite à la mort d’Arthur à l’âge de 39 ans, son frère et ses amis se remémorent tous les moments qu’ils ont vécu avec Arthur.
Just an absolutely remarkable book. Took me about 3 months to finish, but one of the most rewarding books I've ever picked up. Some of the most beautiful, agonizing, and heartbreaking writing I've ever read.
A four part suite album, separated into tracks, "Acknowledgement", Resolution", "Pursuance", and "Psalm", all chocked full of love, Just like this novel.The heroines and heroes are unabashed "race people".
Savior, Don't You Pass Me By!” In the world James Baldwin creates, a Black man in New York City, can walk into a crowded bar, as a stranger on Christmas eve, meet the Black bartender and immediately bond so intensely, that the former stranger tells the bartende, he's bringing his girl friend back to meet him on Christmas Day. And the Bartender says "You better do just that, Baby".
There were parts that I could have enjoyed, like Julia and her youth or Hall's trip to Korea, but Baldwin decided to focus on other things.
Baldwin mentions some shocking things, like Julia and her father, but never really handles the aftermath of it.
Same thing with Hall and his trip to Korea during the war.
Baldwin decided that the book would be about racism and that was it.
All the other shocking things that happened in this book were just used to traumatise the characters and make them come closer.
It is epic in size and ambition, and unlike many epics it rarely feels unruly and never loses the glue that ties everything together.That glue is the novel's vibrant humanity.
I am not exaggerating when I say that I have never read a novel that was more human than this one.
Its denizens are not characters or ideas or representatives or ideologies; they are full-blooded people who love and lose, who make mistakes and who come through for each other when it seems no one else will.
I've been teaching it in a mixed Afro-American Studies/English class and the primary response from the (absolutely first-rate) group of students has been "wow, this feels absolutely contemporary." Amen.One of the half dozen books that have been most important to me over the years, largely because it refuses to let me slip into complacency.On a more literary level, Just Above My Head is a recapitulation of the central themes of Baldwin's career: the confrontations with the church and the South from Go Tell It On the Mountain; the complications of shame and guilt and freedom embedded in sexuality (in Baldwin's case homosexuality) from Giovanni's room; the musical quest of "Sonny's Blues"; the civil rights politics of "Blues For Mister Charlie"; the shadow of death and sexual violence in Another Country; the burden of fame from Tell Me How Long The Train's Been Gone; the emerging awareness of black women's particular situation in IF Beale Street Could Talk." It's Baldwin looking back at himself, his world, his changing sense of what art can do.
This is my first James Baldwin read, however, I will need to read some of his books before this one.
One of the initial books that he became famous for, because from reading this novel I can see that he is a very artistic writer.
I just cannot see giving the story more than 3 stars.
I like that he developed most of the characters very well and brought me into their world, however, I felt I was brought in quite a bit, but was left hanging at points.
I did not like that Hall was the narrator telling the story for others, very intimate details and this made it unrealistic.
I have read this book so many times--it is one of my all-time favorites. I can't even begin to estimate the profound impact it has had on me.
The fairest among ten thousand."James Baldwin's composition, "Just Above My Head" is a Magnum opus, a crowning jewel to a lifetime of excellent works.
Yet Baldwin spends more time (and word count) describing acts of lovemaking, youthful exuberance, and family than their counterparts of rape, psychological terrorism, and self destruction.
But the people who elicit from you a depth of attention and wonder which we helplessly call love are perpetually making moves which cannot possibly be anticipated.
Danger, true, you try to anticipate and you prepare yourself, without knowing it, to stand in the way of death.
Thank you, Sir James Baldwin.
Did you ever look at a painting over and over, always seeing something new and beautiful or disgusting, but you can't turn your head away.
Baldwin is this painter, only his strokes are with his pen.
This is an amazing story and while fiction, it does read somewhat autobiographical with Baldwin playing multiple characters in the novel.
It's a story of Harlem, the Deep South, a talented gospel singing brother, racism, homosexuality (graphic) but you can't drag your eyes away even for a moment as the words just sing across the page.
Every emotion is present in the book and in your mind and heart.
I'm a huge James Baldwin fan but this was a hard read for me for several reasons.
The characters and their experiences seem incredibly real and what they feel, what happens to them is, at times, absolutely crushing.
That said, this novel is incredibly complex and James Baldwin has a way of balancing things out with love and hope.
The story is told by Hall, a first-person omniscient narrator.
Hall knows all the thoughts and feelings of almost all the other characters.
Well, if anyone can pull it off it's the genius, James Baldwin, but it did bug me.
Bloated, spotty, with diminishing returns. Also a beautiful picture of brotherhood and blackness and loss and love.

So many novels that are written now are so incredibly narcissistic, that Baldwin’s wide-ranging novel is a breath of fresh air. The story is a family epic of a sort that seems uncommon nowadays: Hall Montana tells the story of his brother Arthur, a famed gospel singer, and the stories of their friends and family. Baldwin paints a broad canvas focused mostly on Harlem, but action takes place in Birmingham, New York, Washington, and Paris. Homosexuality and racism are intertwined with Baldwin’s signature meditations on the state of culture. Long and complex book, but a masterpiece.
I love this novel. I love its characters, the writing, the setting, the themes,... First time I read JAMH was in Dutch, my mother tongue ("Bijna binnen handbereik" is the Dutch title). Over the years I have read it again in English and in Dutch and it keeps moving me. JAMH should be in every list of Great American Novels!
A sweeping saga about the blessings and curses of family, faith and race. Literature doesn't get much better than Baldwin. His body of work puts most of todays writers pitiful attempts to shame. To this day it's the only book that makes me cry. Arthur's struggles along with his brother Hall and the rest of the chracters that make up this incredible novel are mesmerizing.
