https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6578507-the-postmistress
There are tons of great stories set during WWII.
It's not even much of a story, it just sort of meanders and then peters out.
The sections of the book focusing on them are actually great.
But if you want a book about a fascinating female character during the war, read Charlotte Grey.
If you want a book about a small town affected by the war, read the Guernsey Literary Potato whatever book.
If you want a book that focuses on the tragedy of the Holocaust, read Sarah's Key. If you want a book about nothing, read this one.
Blake's book is purportedly a gripping glimpse into the lives of three women whose experiences during the second world war become interconnected.
Unfortunately the only thing gripping about this book was the overwhelming sense of confusion that envelopes the reader in his or her attempt to understand why this woman's book was actually published.
Why does this book claim to be centered around the postmaster and her act of withholding mail when she does that but once and 3/4 of the way through the book?
And even now, I still do not want to clutter up this story with my own words.
Here is the war story I never filed.
And the girl I was—Frankie Bard, radio gal—lives on these pages as someone I knew, once......How Iris and Frankie come to betray everything they stand for—that mail must be delivered, that truth must be reported—is the war story I hoped to tell.
It is the story that lies around the edges of the photographs, or at the end of the newspaper account.
And, in the end, I never really "got it." I wanted more of an emotional punch.
Blake managed to draw things out for one of the two love stories so that by the time the character comes to terms with her loss, the reader thinks "weeep womp.
Some of these scenes were emotional and powerful, but Blake was trying to show Frankie had carried the emotions home with her, and it was leading her to make some realization about life.
I wanted to feel like all the time I had invested in the novel was leading towards something provocative.
The reader follows the paths of three women – Emma, Iris, and Frankie – as Europe experiences Hitler’s fury and Americans wonder if they will enter the war.
Iris is the Postmaster of the same town Emma moves to, and watches over the people of the town.
It is up to the reader to decide if the decisions the characters make are good and wise.I had the wonderful privilege of reading this book as part of Barnes & Noble’s First Look Book Club, and really enjoyed it.
All three of the main characters in this book have compelling stories and they are people I will not soon forget.
Wow. This was more beautifully written than The Help- and that's tough for me to say because I adore The Help but the language Blake used, the description, the rhetoric and irony- it's quality stuff and literally took my breath away- for the first 75%.
Blake did such a great job developing wonderful characters and creating beautiful sentences that she forgot to form up a plot.
I liked that there were a lot of characters, each with his or her own story, each with his or her own ending.
What I didn't like was that out of all of those characters not one of them got a happy ending.
Usually I can finish reading a book in several days, maybe a week or more.
For this book, it took me almost 2 months to finished maybe because the beginning of the story isn't that engrossing.
The mid part till the end is the better part of the book, where the real action begins.
I've read several war related fiction novels or real memoir novels before, but this one is a little mild compared to them.
The story of the news correspondence Frankie isn't mind-boggling, rather it is just mediocre.
This book has the potential to be great, but it's not.
Unfortunately, it was almost unreadable for me.I was interested in all of the main characters, but because the author jumped from different points of view so often, I felt like none of the characters were actually very developed.
Maybe the author tried to rush this book to the press or something, but I think it would have been much better with some rewriting.
The characters should have been better developed.
The dialogue should have been more realistic.
Then it could've been great, because the actual story and plot has a lot of potential!
I found this to be a gripping read, exploring the emotions of several people, mainly radio reporter Frankie Bard, as they see the impact of war and struggle with their own responses to what they see.
The sections describing the beginning of radio reporting with Edward R.
The title is misleading, as is the premise that this story is mainly about a "postmistress who chooses not to deliver the mail." That does happen, but neither that incident nor the postmistress are the central focus of the story, at least not for me.
Frankie Bard, on the other hand, is a character not soon to be forgotten.
Also, at the beginning there was some really obvious historical context thrown in - this sentance in particular felt clumsy to me: "There had been so many sensational and fake atrocity stories written about Germany during the First War, much of the press was chary of a story about deliberate, ominous action against the Jews now." It's absolutely true, of course, and relevant to the story, but it sounded like a sentance straight out of my high school World History textbook.I think I'm being too harsh on this book, but all those petty things just added up and stopped me from really enjoying the book.
Like many others have noted, this book started slowly for me, and was a little confusing at first.
But by the end, I loved it, and the stories it told.
The heartbreaking stories of Jewish refugees fleeing the advance of Hitler's armies is central to the life of one of the women, while the other two watch and listen, via the nightly radio broadcasts from London, under the Blitz.
This book is rich in detail, and made many aspects of this horrible time in history (that was not so long ago) more real.
From her review, this sounded like a book that I would love, the kind that I gravitate toward, and for the most part, it fit the bill perfectly.
I couldn't really identify much with Iris, honestly, as she is set in her ways and unbendable about a lot of things, content when her little environment is in order and content not to know what happens in the world outside her bubble.
It's always the personal stories that get to me when I read books like this, and this one delivered so much in that vein that I almost felt overloaded at times.
In fact, this book is so insipid, I'd say it's fine for adolescent readers, but the only problem is there are 1-2 sex scenes, so there goes even that one attempt at my trying to find something redeeming in it....* right on down** to the glowing recommendations from other fellow authors (whom, I think now, may have just been "scratching her back" so she would in turn "scratch theirs" by giving their books a good rec when the time came?), but I should have noticed that all of them are from NOVELISTS and not historical writers.
I am re-reading this book for a discussion group in two weeks. The first time I read it, I loved it. It will be interesting to see what the somewhat finicky ladies in the discussion groups think about it. I remember the atmosphere of the book more than the characters; the setting was familiar and the era of WWII is always fascinating. Now, I need to do discussion questions for it, maybe find author interviews, etc.
I've read a lot of books that have examined life in the early days of WWII, but never one like this.
One is an ambitious reporter fighting the glass ceiling of war reporting over in Europe who finally gets the opportunity of a lifetime that ends up completely changing her life.
The opening quote, from Martha Gelhorn, is perfect: "War happens to people, one by one." This is what comes alive in this book and makes it resonate long after the last page is turned.
I'd definitely hoped for more.
I couldn't keep track of whose overall story this book was telling: Emma?
Frankie?
It seemed heavily favored to Frankie and hers was the most boring of the three.
I think the author was far too caught up in her historical research.
The author also seemed to discover the purpose of the plot far too late in the game.
I also think she forgot how she started the story (at a dinner party) and never picked it back up at the end.
Definitely could have been better but it was OK.
Don't know if I'll pick up another book by her.
As I listen to this I realize I have read this before.
This is a very good book.
In 1940, Frankie Bard goes back and forth across Europe interviewing the refugees and trying to get their stories on air to America.
Emma Finch is married to a doctor who feels he needs to go over to the war and help out after losing one of his patients.
Then there is Iris James, the postmistress of Franklin, MA where Emma lives.
Slowly their lives unfold as they get closer to having their lives meet.
Very beautifully written and heartbreaking to listen to.
Well worth the read.
for example: Iris getting her virginity checked at the beginning, Frankie fucking an anonymous stranger while her apartment gets bombed, killing her roommate, Frankie having her period and feeling the clot come out then goes to buy some Kotex while the Blitz is going on, the men calling Frankie “beauty” in several different countries…i think that the author was just trying WAY too hard to be obscure.the descriptions of this book were very misleading– that not delivering a letter (during WWII time) could like “change the fate of all” or some such claim.
It is simply so well written and executed, drawing up the strings of the random pieces and painting the picture of the story of Emma, Frankie, and Iris that it left my heart pondering.So the story introduces us to Iris, the postmistress, at a doctor's appointment asking for a paper indicating she is intact.
It was so random and I just didn't like the book.Finally, Frankie rides the trains from Calais, France into Paris to Berlin.
I was riveted and forgot I was reading a book and not watching a movie.In the end, the main characters' stories collide and the randomness makes sense.
The Postmistress by Sarah Blake Genre: Fiction Rating: DNF(No Summary.)The thing about reading is that you need to pick up the book, and be wrapped up in it.
When I started reading The Postmistress, I felt like I’d jumped into the middle of a book, in the middle of a series, with no idea who was who or what was happening or even who the narrator was.
It was like reading sentences backwards.
It felt like a bunch of jumbled words.The style was strange, there was weird punctuation that made what little clear sentences there were choppy and difficult to read.
"If I tell this story in exactly the right way, people will hear it and act on it," thinks the reporter.
But if is a double-edged word and sometimes it falls the other way, and we're left thinking, "If only I had done this or hadn't done that, then this other thing would never have happened."Beautiful.
I am going to be haunted by Frankie's story for a long time.
I should perhaps relate more to the wife than the reporter, but Frankie's stories have left a mark on my soul.
I loved the fact that it chronicled the lives of three very different women during WWII, a postmistress, as per the title, a doctor's wife, and a female journalist.
There are other parts of the book, particularly when she is telling the story of Iris James that the writing is a bit lacking, and it is hard as the reader to get through those parts of the book.
I really think that the entire book could have been about Frankie Bard, but the way she intertwines the lives of the three women, is very interesting.
I just wasn't impressed. I thought most of it was boring and the ending anti-climactic.
Ils sont rares les livres qui transportent autant et vont ressentir des émotions aussi fortes.
Ce qui est intéressant dans ce roman, c'est de voir la guerre du côté des américains, cette attente qui ne dit pas son nom et l'impuissance qu'il en ressort.
A travers le personnage de Frankie, c'est le métier de journaliste de terrain et plus généralement l'humanité qui s'interroge : comment témoigner de la vérité crue de la guerre ?
Que se passe-t-il réellement pour les juifs en Europe et que vont-ils devenir ?
Il n'y a rien de nouveau dans ce roman et pourtant, on accompagne les personnages, on tremble, on vibre pour eux.
My daughter, Kerry, sent me this book, thinking that I would enjoy it as much as she had.
It's well written from the viewpoint of a radio news woman and describes in heartbreaking detail the horrors Jews experienced during World War II.
I kept thinking that it was building toward some conclusion, that everything would come together, and the reader would be left with a message.
However, t he conclusion (if you can call it that) seemed to be that life is chaotic and meaningless, and there is no God and no plan, and no matter what we do with our lives, it doesn't matter.
This book was extremely powerful. Very, very good!!! The author, Sarah Blake, writes with precision that is so descriptive, you can just see everything. I'd have to recommend listening to the audio. The lady who reads is articulate, doing different European dialects so well. The setting is WWII in both Europe and the USA. Three women's lives cross in such an interesting way. There is wonderful philosophy in this book, which I personally love. I haven't read such thought provoking philosophy since I read Tartt's Goldfinch.
Before leaving London, Frankie meets Will in a bomb shelter, and when the all clear sounds the two emerge onto the London streets, where Will is struck down by a taxi, leaving a letter with Frankie to deliver back to his wife in the States.The novel goes on to tell the story of all these people, and, more importantly, of the refusal of Americans to come to grips with the unfolding tragedy that is overtaking events in Europe.As I read this beautifully written novel, I kept thinking about Kathryn Stockett’s compliments and what indeed she had in mind about the relevancy of the story to today’s times.
hmmmm....The time is 1940-41 and the newly appointed Postmistress of Franklin, Cape Cod is 40 year old spinster Iris James.
Like most of the citizens in Franklin, Iris and Emma listen to the daily reports of Frankie Bard "somewhere in Europe" reporting on the war.
It is after one of Frankie's reports, this time about about an orphaned child, that Will Trask decides he must volunteer and he goes to London to join up.As attractive as the characters are they are not the most original part of the novel.
This book is a "love story" and also a story about WWII seen from various character's eyes/points of view.Iris and Henry - love story........then there is Frankie, the career reporter, reporting on the war from London....then the newly weds - bride and disturbed, haunted groom and how the "cursed" groom runs off to England to get away from the curse of his background......This type stuff........pretty good so far!Finished.....ok....not great!
How have I not written about this one yet? One of my very favorite books of all time, it tells the story of Frankie, a reporter broadcasting from London who finds herself increasingly drawn into the war and Iris, a woman in a small New England town whose job it is to deliver the mail -- until the day she decides not to do it. Heart-wrenching and unforgettable -- bring tissues!
