https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1636234.The_Roman_Hat_Mystery
The plot starkly brings out its setting in the 1920s since the mystery basically hinges around a missing top hat.
Where is the missing hat and what is its significance?
The narrative hinges around the missing hat to such an extent that it takes up the bulk of the book.
The narrative gets stuck in finding the hat and apart from a couple of interactions with the suspects, the dialogues are mostly the Queens and the policemen discussing the case among themselves, which was not sufficient to retain interest.
Ellery was a vague character throughout the book and in the second half, he just disappears.
My goodness the a lot of people reviewing this know very little about the golden age of detective fiction or indeed, history.
Secondly, educated people in America in the late 1920s spoke and behaved like that, rating a book low because of it speaks volumes.Thirdly, they repeat themselves?
Removing the racism from old books is called "white washing" and it's wrong.
Anyway, it reads like a play, I would guess that was the reason it was set in a theatre.
I am not huge on making reviews, but I have to say I believe this book gets a bad rap... so many 2 stars? crazy... I thoroughly enjoyed it! I enjoyed how the book was written, and the crime being solved by deductive reasoning. The step into the past, and the feel for the time period. Even though there wasn't a bunch of "action", my interest was kept. I listened to this book on my audible, and to me it was a wonderful "who-done-it" logic puzzle. I plan on reading the next in the series!
This is one of those books that are so firmly set in the time of their publication that it is difficult to rate them now on their own merits independent of their placement in the development of their genre.
The prejudices and attitudes of the time of its initial publication (1929) are obvious with incidents of casual gender, class, education and race biases cropping up throughout.
Read for book club bingo, book by two authors.
Oh, Ellery Queen.
I started with the introduction, and so I read about how much Manny and Danny, I think the authors colloquially called each other, enjoyed creating plots and puzzles, and how much they loved golden age detective fiction.
The plot is solid.
In this case, I would have been better served to start with a different piece of the Ellery Queen cannon.
So, I will read more Ellery Queen, because he's an important name in mystery and detective fiction, but I will not recommend this book.
Wow. Truly a product of its time. Unlike Dashiell Hammett, Sinclair Lewis, Agatha Christie or Rex Stout -- very little of Ellery Queen's (Frederic Dannay and James Yaffe) writing holds up a century later.
Een goede Queen die het gebruikelijke stramien volgt.
Een moord, vader Queen die er bij geroepen wordt en er zijn zoon Ellery bij betrekt.
Velie die vader Queen beschermt en dienst doet als duvel-doet-al met een Djuna vol jeugdige overmoed op de achtergrond.Een lijk, meerder verdachten, politie staat voor raadsel, Ellery maakt vorderingen en komt soms op een verkeerd spoor terecht.
Goeien en slechten, niet noodzakelijk in de categorie die je verwacht.Dit boek is duidelijk gedateerd: racisme omwille van druppeltje negerbloed, klassejustitie als normaal voorgesteld.
Toch bleef ik als lezer met een aantal vragen zitten, maar misschien moet ik het boek gewoon nog een lezen...
Guter geradliniger Krimi, in dem man irgendwie während des Lesens so gar keine Ahnung hat wer der Mörder denn sein könnte. ;-)Daher fällt die Auflösung dann doch sehr umfangreich und irgendwie kompliziert aus, so dass man sich stark konzentrieren muss.
This first Ellery Queen novel is widely regarded as mediocre at best and significantly worse than many later books.
The Roman Hat Mystery is the first of several "national" novels by the cousins writing as Ellery Queen.
Also in my to-read queue is "Blood Relations: Selected Letters of Ellery Queen" by Joseph Goodrich.
Goodrich collected and has published a series of letters the cousins wrote each other while writing the Ellery Queen novels; they famously did not get along -- could barely stand each other,in fact -- and yet managed to produce some of the best American detective stories ever written.
Redundant I don’t get to give out many one star rating, but The Roman Hat Mystery deserves it. Many pages of the book are redundant, which makes the book much too long.
While Ellery Queen was a name I'd heard and known for a long time, I'd never read any of their work.
This one, published in 1929, has not aged well at all.
Much of the action, deduction, and sleuthing take place off to the side, and the reader has to wait for Inspector Queen to later explain it in long, dreary monologue.
He also seems to have an unhealthy attachment to his son, Ellery.
Still...I read books that are much older and much, much better, so I wouldn't have assumed this was going to be so awful based on publication date.
It has not aged well.

This is the first of the Ellery Queen series and is nothing like the ones to follow.
But it must be read in the context of society of that time.
Ellery is a somewhat mannered twit but not as bad as his counterpart from that time, Philo Vance.
Regardless, this is a good little book with a ridiculously intricate plot that sets the stage for a very successful character who lived on in books, radio, movies and television.The Queen series improved over the years and should be read chronologically to enjoy the changes that take place as the characters find their personalities.
The first, 1929, Ellery Queen whodunnit, jointly authored as a competition entry.Interesting set-up, with New York Inspector Richard Queen, abetted by his non-cop son Ellery, in investigating the theatre murder of a crooked lawyer. Almost like a couple of private investigators with detectives to do the hard yards. But where has the man's top hat gone ...?Rather uneven. 4* is a little generous. An interesting solution to the hat mystery, and a splendid denouement that rather emphasises the plodding and repetitative nature of the Queens' investigations.I read that the subsequent novels were superior, so will certainly read some more
The very first Ellery Queen mystery and well done. I kind of like the "breaking of the fourth wall" where the reader is informed that they now have all of the clues and should be able to solve the mystery. Richard Queen seems more prominent than his son, Ellery, but he gives Ellery credit for solving the case. Interesting puzzle.
The story was a little boring, and the motive was kind of shocking. I had to remind myself that this was published in 1929. I suppose it's representative of it's time.
I've run out of "first book passes." Even for a book from 1929, we had mysteries already, books had been around for a decent amount of time, so no good excuse exists for the flaws of this book.
Likewise, the book falters in its attempts to make Inspector Queen one of the greatest detectives of all time without his son, mainly in his bizarre dependence on Ellery's presence.
I'm usually not terribly interested in the "overtness" of the resolution, and this book is too long with too many boring characters so by the time we learn who did it the reader thinks "who?
The characters are written in such a way that you see them as more than the cardboard figures Christie populates her novels with.The mystery in Queen's book is as convoluted as anything Christie could come up with.
But, the cast of characters and the attention to the details of life in the period in which the book is written makes it more than a boring genre read.
Having read this one, I now know why.Ellery Queen and his father are interesting characters.
If you like mysteries, I recommend reading Ellery Queen.
Ellery Queen is the pseudonym of cousins Frederic Dannay and Manfred Bennington Lee. Together they created and published this popular series.
The Roman Hat Mystery was published in 1929 and is the first in the series.
Inspector Richard Queen investigates the murder of an lawyer during a broadway show.
His son, Ellery Queen, a book collector and author, assists his father throughout the investigation - and is who Inspector Queen credits for solving the murder.
For this case, the key to the mystery is solving the location of the victim's top hat.
After all the clues are provided, the reader is challenged to solve the mystery.
Crime-based adventures and most of all, police crime are my least favourite but still, I thought it would be like loving Chuck Berry, as a legend preceding my decade's favourites.
I liked a parent and son team.
It takes a long time to be clear he is an author.
It takes 90 pages to end this story's first problem: it was boring!
In all that time, we don't leave the first location!
When we finally enter their home, with no explanation of why Ellery's Mom isn't there, I thought “Now maybe I can enjoy it”.What do we find?
In searching for a book written by multiple authors I chanced upon Ellery Queen.
This mystery series was in fact written by two cousins: Lee and Dannay.
I chose the very first in the series: The Roman Hat Mystery.
Written in 1929, it was originally an entry for a writing competition.
Nevertheless, it became the first in a successful series of detective novels.
Detective Richard Queen is called in to investigate.
He is accompanied by his son, Ellery.
The rest of the novel is a set of interviews that today seem preposterous.
This is the first Ellery Queen novel, written in 1929.
One must keep the date in mind as the setting is crucial to understanding the extreme politically incorrect prose.
Also, in 1929, people attending the theater dressed to the nines.
From the beginning it is clear that the top hat worn by the victim to the theater is missing and is, therefore, the linchpin piece of evidence.
Like many mystery novels, key information is withheld from the reader until the big reveal at the end.
It is a good mystery, but a little slow and too deliberate.
I imagined myself and my father taking the place of Richard and Ellery Queen and solving mysteries in NYC.The list of characters and the map of the Roman Theatre in the front of the book helped me along.For this read I went the audio route and that was fantastic!
I really got into the story and wanted to finish this ten hour ride in the space of an hour.Seriously what is not to like about a book reading detective who helps his father solve cases and there is talk about retiring to Italy some day.
THE ROMAN HAT MYSTERY.
Ellery Queen.
**.This was the first novel published by this writing duo who went on to become landmarks in the world of mystery fiction.
It is obvious that readers in 1929 were much more tolerant of writing styles that I am.
It reads like a textbook on statistical mechanics rather than a novel.
It is obviously contrived, and the reader has to duck every now and then to avoid being hit by the obvious.
It’s worth a scan for its historical importance, however, if you are a true mystery fan.
I then re-encountered "Ellery Queen" as a collection of selected short mysteries; Isaac Asimov mentions he entered several of his pieces in _The Tales of the Black Widowers_.
Subsequently and naturally, my curiosity piqued, I had to find out more about this EQ.I was amused by how attached Inspector Queen was to his son.
I wonder what happened to Ellery's mother.
I'd like to know Djuna's story.While I developed a sense for the inspector's personality and can say I like him, Ellery felt much more amorphous and I'm perplexed by his persona.I look forward to my next Ellery Queen mystery.
La coppia di scrittori che si nasconde sotto questo pseudonimo ha cominciato con questo romanzo la fortunata serie di Ellery Queen.
Padre e figlio, rispettivamente ispettore della polizia di New York l'uno e scrittore di polizieschi di successo l'altro, si alleano per risolvere un caso all'apparenza particolarmente intricato.
Con una accurata indagine e alcuni interrogatori mirati, la deduzione di Ellery e l'acume del padre risolvono il caso.
Mentre l'ispettore spiega ai suoi sottoposti come è arrivato alla soluzione, tutto sembra semplice, sembra...
Mentre lo leggiamo invece, ricostruire l'accaduto è difficilissimo.

I really enjoyed the book, but i couldn't appreciate very much the fair play deduction experience that it offers because i couldn't read it all at once because of time issues.
So, any time that i came back to the reading i was a bit lost in the flow of events.
Also I think the Kindle Edition is a bit uncomfortable because you can't go back as quickly as in a paper edition, to the start to read the names and description of the characters and also to look the map, that in this version it is too small so you can't see some details.Anyways, i still could make my own deductions, not very precise but deductions anyways that took me in a way to the same result as the characters more or less.
The first Ellery Queen mystery, written in the 1920s, is a classic impossible whodunit. As a clever puzzle, the mystery still holds up fairly well. The sometimes heavy -handed, clichéd writing and the two -dimensional, stereotype characters made for occasionally difficult reading.The lasting appeal for the EQ books is the Reader Challenge. Just before the concluding chapters the authors stop the action and inform the reader that he or she should now have all the facts necessary to solve the crime. It remains a tantalizing challenge.
First TimeAlways heard of Ellery Queen and I watched the TV show that Jim Hutton did and liked it a lot ... So I finally tried one and it's not going to be the last ... Good mystery and all the clues are there for you to follow ... In fairness my mind put Jim Hutton and David Wayne from the TV show into the characters as I read the book ... That made it great ... Getting ready for the next one !!
