https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1443432.Critique_of_Everyday_Life
After having read all three volumes I contend that the following phrases from Henri Lefebvre's CRITIQUE OF EVERYDAY LIFE (Verso) would make great metal song titles:"Burdened Living Reality with a Parasitic Growth" (p.
77)"A Mysterious Punishment" (p.
186)"Nothingness Activated" (p.
239)"Capable of Dying" (p.
454)"Death Grasps the Living" (p.
454)"Abandoned by Death" (p.
456)"Betrothed to Death" (p.
457)"The Black Sun of Empty Anguish" (p.
642)"The Desolation of Everyday Life (Emptiness And Ennui)" (p.
642)"Do Moments Die?" (p.
647)"Perhaps Successes Are Merely Monstrosities Which Chance Has Smiled Upon" (p.
651)"The Era of the Void" (p.
739)"Misfortune, Not Nothingness" (p.
Hey look at me being a marketing schmo for Verso: all three volumes of Lefebvre's Big Ass Book (848 pgs.) in one BUCH half price right now: I bought one: so might you: what else are you doing with your money?: paying for LOVE?: watching GAME OF THRONES? GRRMARTIN no longer needs your cash: publishers of dead Marxists do:http://www.versobooks.com/books/1623-...
One could not pick three more interesting years, 1947, 1961 and 1981 or a more polished author than Lefebvre to have a reflection of what the everyday meant and its potential for change.I can only give hints at why this book is so much fun to read.
Overall, when this project is looked at as a project about a project (which can only come after all three volumes are written) and the richness of learning to look at how we thought about ourselves thinking about ourselves over time this book can be a very edifying (and entertaining) read.
this is really interesting, forward thinking stuff. the thing is, it is not written like philosophy. it is somewhat stream of consciousness, leaving a ton of room for interpretation. which is why it's still important, since every lefty academic thinks they get it since it can be interpreted in whatever form of neo-post-whatever they like. worth reading for the digs at existentialism and sartre alone, though.
In sum: understand from your particular.I believe that interpreting the everyday on an ideological level is a powerful start to, first, construct any new social structure, as anything that is not based and sustained on the daily material world is bound to collapse under the immense power of customs and routine: man is a creature of habit.
It is unfortunately too marxist at some spots, mainly because of historical reasons, but the book is otherwise filled with incisive insights that suggest a new way of thinking of 'the social' that seems, surprisingly, to have a future.
The first and third volumes are easier to read than the second, mainly because of the way Lefebvre wrote them, in plain language, Volume two on the other hand seemed to have more of an academic and philosophical tone that I could not always get or follow.
I am sure I will be riding this book again sooner than later, hopefully more prepared to comprehend contexts, terms and conclusions, and draw my own in a proper way.That said, I recommend this reading wholeheartedly.
Lefebvre develops themes that are still very much alive today, and he wrote about them in the 40s, 60s and 80s as if he were alive in 2015, seeing them unfold.
What I found most intriguing about this work is in how, as a “critique of everyday life,” Lefebvre is trying not to dispel but deepen everyday life.
I really liked how Lefebvre asks us to revitalize writers like Kierkegaard and Baudelaire by requiring that we embed their words in our world rather than take them as a quest for something other.
Lefebvre puts into words these doubts I have had and presents a more fundamentally dialectical interpretation of lived reality in its materialist implications.The feelings I get of Lefebvre is that he is a mix of Marx and Nietzsche.
Lefebvre is trying to make a scientific/Marxist interpretation of postulates.
Excerpts from and links to two overviews of Lefebvre’s work:"Historically speaking, Henri Lefebvre’s three-volume The Critique of Everyday Life was a great influence on the New Left, ’68 and all that.
Emphasizing the sociological basis of Marx’s thought and the central importance of Marx’s concepts of alienation, fetishism and mystification, Lefebvre’s argues these categories should by used to critique everyday life."https://futuresandpasts.wordpress.com..."Lefebvre extends Marx's analysis by discovering new forms of alienation, and arguing that capitalism not only organizes relations of production in an exploitive manner (which produces several forms of alienation in workers) but that every aspect of life is emptied of meaning or significance, which is then purchased back in the form of spectacular commodities.
I think this process goes something like this: we need people, our comrades, to look to the present day and understand how the everyday effects our perceptions of society.
Then we need to fight for things that will change our everyday experience, whether it's creating new technologies that are available to everyone, limiting the work week to 48 hours, or any other tactics that might apply.
Of course, Lefebvre doesn't advocate for a simple reform, he is a Marxist after all, and I agree that a party that is able to collect the people that can carry the task out of changing the everyday life is necessary, and that will be the social force to spark a revolution.
A mastermind, I wonder what the volume IV would be, had he written today.I rate this 5 because of the enormous field covered, the depth of knowledge behind and within.It's is a hard book, and I had to iron work.cheers dialectic, I just read that some others find it difficult to explain;however Henri Lefebvre managed excellently.
This is a key piece of work in the developments that took Lefebvre away from the French Communist Party's slavish Stalinism and that led to his marginalisation in favour of Sartre and Althusser, as well as his influence on the Situationists and others in the events of May '68 and earlier.
Lefebvre's 'rediscovery' since the early 1990s alongside the increasingly marginalisation of both Sartre and Althusser in both scholarship and politics is welcome.It is the first of three volumes where he explores the meanings and experiences of the ordinary, and develops some of our theoretical and conceptual tools for analysing that mundane world.
There's really two parts to this volume: a 100-page Foreword added in 1958, and the book proper (which is only another 150 pages), which was written in 1947.
The foreword is a bit strange and uneven.
The discussion of alienation had useful parts, but overall seemed to be directed at a set of debates that I wasn't familiar with.
The main body of the book is more solid, though there's still a lot of variation (the chapters range from the programmatic Marxian theorizing of "Marxism as critical knowledge" to the more essay-like "Notes written one Sunday in the French countryside" (though this, too, ends with a block of Marxist theory).
Well worth reading, but volume 2 is much more interesting and cohesive.
Broken into six easily digestible chapters with a lengthy forward, The Critique of Everyday Life aims to rebuild that lost community where man was not atomized and social functions, such as festivals, were not perfunctory and corresponded to the sacred.
Essentially, this work is revolutionary; it calls for a qualitative change in life and culture.
The following two volumes probably plunge further into everyday life, probing and analyzing what makes humanity so unreceptive and alienated.
With that being said, Lefebvre's work was as pertinent then as it is today and perhaps even more so with today's modern technology.
(8/10) Despite the title, this is not so much a critique of everyday life as a groundwork for such a critique, and in the process of laying that groundwork Lefebvre creates a fundamentally new conception of the social sciences.
Most of the Big Issues seem to be about exceptional events, whereas the everyday motions of our lives seem to be taken for granted when they are, in fact, socially constructed and a vital method of control.Lefebvre doesn't really go into that much detail about the specifics of everyday life, which might frustrate some, although it does at least stop this book from seeming outdated.
Review of Volume 1 (which the cover above corresponds to):For some reason at some point I'd gathered the impression that Lefebvre's work was difficult, even impenetrable. How utterly false! On the contrary, his style is lucid, swift, even poetic and beautiful in places. His particular views of the tasks of criticism, and the necessity of reimagining and re-creating our ways of analysis and the creation of meaning are well expressed and still carry some great weight.A real pleasure (though it is true I will tarry with a few other books before launching into Volume 2, published many years later).
Lefebvre's classic text is anything but rigorous formal philosophy, and his proposed solution to the ills of the world ("think more about everything, transform the everyday rather than transcending it, disdain the fantastic") is the sort of characteristic mushy rah-rah stuff even the greatest minds seem to settle on...but man, the journey to the end is entertaining (his "Notes Written One Sunday" is hilarious). This book, for good or ill, will remain lodged firmly in mind as I muddle through my own work in cultural studies.
Have been thinking about reading this book for a long time, but it seems to be not as good as I expected. The argument is a bit vague and discrete. For dialectic analysis, I would recommend reading Durkheim.
The thing is, this book is really important--it is just that the ideas have been really watered down by the past sixty years. I'm pretty sure the author did not intend to encourage a bunch of self described revolutionaries to take of puppeteering, but I could be wrong. I usually am.
You guys, help. I hate theory SO MUCH.
İsyan Devrim Lefebvre!
An excellent book. Lefebvre is smarter than the run of the mill philosophers
Critique of Everyday Life
lagi butuh buku ini...
