https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77735.The_Honor_of_the_Queen
If you've read other of my reviews you know that I like protagonists who are frankly good guys (of course "guy" is used in the generic sense here with no gender inferred) who understand honor (small h), honesty, duty, courage (saddling up anyway even when you're scared to death).
I am enjoying the series.(view spoiler)[Almost my favorite scene in this book (if not my favorite) was when Honor slapped the bureaucrat (and of course with her strength the "slap" floors and bloodies him).
And I really think Weber might have considered letting Honor keep her eye patch instead of giving her a bionic eye in the next book.
What does this mean for this particular novel?Well, unfortunately, the characterizations were NOT as good as the setup in the first Honor book.
So I have to rely mostly on good worldbuilding and battles to carry me through this particular novel.
This book is from '93, so on one hand, I can be somewhat impressed with the willingness to explore social craziness when it comes to women's roles, the perception in the military from the fundamentalist PoV as well as Honor, the exemplary female officer, balking and resolving some of her own issues when dealing with very different cultures.
In short, reading David Weber's books while fucked up is not a good idea--they're full of technical detail, worldbuilding, intrigue, and feature a pretty decently sized cast of characters.
You're not gonna get much time with random grunts and stuff like that--despite the focus on realistic military and political structures this is still a bombastic, swashbuckling space opera and there are no Everypeople here--everyone serves on a hugely powerful spaceship, holds a high position in the government or is behind some world-changing plot or plan.
It's odd seeing the romance trope "she's gorgeous but totally thinks she's plain, but all the men can't stop looking at her" pop up in a space opera.
Ive also learnt to snooze read the techno-babble too after the first book’s Hypoenginechargetransformthingmabob so that’s no longer such a negative for me but it does go a little "overboard" at times & combined with a slow start we started on a negative rating....Redemption & the 5 pts - The success of the story revolves around Honor Harrington & her interactions, everything else is jus fluff really, all the characters are fair wooden when left to their own devices & really struggle to have empathy with any of them, then Captain Harrington walks into the room & it all lights up!
I started this series upon the recommendation of a friend, and I can't thank that friend enough for that recommendation.
This series definitely establishes a standard for military space-opera, and unlike so many others that I have read in the past this series really does feel like something other than military fiction.
This book took some work for me to get into, but at some point I found myself simply devouring the pages, unable to read fast enough to match my hunger for more.
And the last 40+ pages resulted in my taking an extended break at work just to finish the book.
I had to finish it.
Even her homicidal rampage was more righteous than reckless.But my biggest issue with the Honor Harrington series is that the plots so far (I’ve read only the first two books), though exciting at times (e.g., the big space battles at the ends) are constantly being interrupted by dull exposition about base and closing velocities, acceleration rates, missile weights, engagement times, energy ranges, magazine sizes, projected courses, etc.This material does not have to be dull.
The story revolves around a astro-political power struggle between Manticore (the good guys) and Haven (the bad guys).
The rival powers are clearly positioning for a conflict and the system in question offers key advantages.
The Haven client state initiates a surprise conflict and Harrington and the Fearless find themselves matched against a vastly superior foe.
I like the inside view of the astro-political conflict.
I like the star battles.
Regardless, the books are still fun.Three and a half stars rounded down to three.
I'm continuing into the series and looking forward to the war between Haven and Manticore.
More engaging military space adventure fluff. This time, though, there's the added interest of some really thought-provoking ideas. It concerns a delegation to a planet/culture with a repressive attitude toward women. A lot of the book is a thought-experiment about the best, most respectful, most moral way to deal with such a culture (and whether respect and morality come into conflict at some point.)Very interesting, with a twist I wasn't expecting for a female heroine. More highly recommended than On Basilisk Station.
Again, I didn't like this quite as well listening to it as reading it. There weren't as many data dumps, but Honor's insistence on taking responsibility for things outside of her control got old, something I could skim through in paper format.Johnson did a better job with the voices, although again her accents struck me as strange as did her insistence on mispronouncing some common words. She did a good job pitching her tone to fit the excitement level.It was a fun romp with Honor shining again.
This is the second book on the Honor Harrington series.After the events from Basilisk Station, the Manticorans realize that war with the Peeps (The People's Republic if Haven) is an inevitability.
The queen sends a envoy of ships and diplomats to the small planet Grayson to seek their alliance and to help them out with a problem they are having with a sister planet of their own.
This is our first introduction to the Graysons, a people who will become very important in the course of this series and to Honor.
It's probably a little over 2 stars, but while this book had a big finish, it had an annoying lack of satisfaction before you get there.This is the second Honor Harrington book and it has some really good bits to it, but more than half of it is not about the lead character.
In the first book, there's a lot of frittering over her crew's dislike of her until she works through it and, aside from her showing she knows her stuff, nothing happens.
Clearly the true protagonist of the books, Nimitz gets to prove he's downright lethal, as well as making Honor even more lethal than she would be without him.
A little darker in places than the previous book,  On Basilisk Station , this book touches on religious (in)tolerance, sexual discrimination and violence as well as the different moral lines in the sand that individuals and groups will set themselves in an ongoing war. Weber handles the topics well, each group manages to get represented across most of the human spectrum – some good people, some not so good people, some downright fucking nasty people and some people who need a trigger event of so
Weber handles the topics well, each group manages to get represented across most of the human spectrum – some good people, some not so good people, some downright fucking nasty people and some people who need a trigger event of some kind to make them appraise their own culture and hopefully rise above it.Fresh from her success in On Basilisk Station, a promotion and a new ship and crew.
As with any religious group, it seems, once they got out into space and colonised their new world, schisms appeared and suddenly they needed two worlds.
David Weber again excels in "The Honor of the Queen" were Captain Honor again goes out against all odds to try to save the day.
The Honor books have technology to spare and delight the reader.
She just simply does to know how to give up.This book is based in a System where Religious leaders trying to get away from technology escaped to.
HMS Fearless arrives with everything against them and again on pure Honor style she wins people over while looking at long odds of her and her crew survival.Get the books read the series it is highly recommended SciFi.
There is no way in heck anyone will convince me to continue with this series. It's boring beyond belief. The audiobook narrator is good, so I will look for more of her work. However, I won't be reading any of David Weber's books anytime soon. The only reason I gave this two stars is that there were a few good scenes in it. It's too bad they were so short and so spread out.
A great continuation of the "Honor-verse" series. Love the main characters, and (again) these books have SUPERB space battles - wonderfully technical and very gung-ho, a true homage to the Horatio Hornblower tradition.I will be reading the whole series, I presume!
Après un premier tome explosif, David Weber nous emmène pour un second tour dans les coursives de ses grands vaisseaux militaires.Honor est ici chargée d’accompagner une mission diplomatique du royaume de Manticore sur la planète Grayson.
Premier problème : Les habitants de Grayson sont pas vraiment des adeptes de l’égalité des sexes, et voir une flotte dirigée par une femme peut être un peu difficile à avaler pour eux d’autant plus qu’Honor est pas la plus diplomate dans l’affaire.
Second problème : La planète Masada, voisine et ennemie jurée de Grayson, complote dans l’ombre avec les force de Havre pour prendre le contrôle du système.A première vue, on démarre sur le même principe que le roman précédent.
Sí, ya sé que es un libro de ficción militar, pero es que los personajes militares son, desde el almirante hasta el último marine, íntegros y valientes, mientras que los escasos civiles son cobardes que no ven más allá de sus narices, o unos fanáticos, o si son de fiar (el embajador) es porque antes ha sido militar y se nota.Luego podríamos hablar de como adapta las situaciones para que cuadren con el relato.
Te diré que son tan malos que no te puedes fiar ni de sus militares, que los único que tienen buenos son prestados.
Three years after book 1 (On Basilisk Station), Captain Harrington returns to the Star Kingdom in order to support a diplomatic mission to the sexist patriarchal society of the planet Grayson.
With a looming war with Haven, Manticore is looking to form an alliance with Grayson.
Grayson is not thrilled that a woman, Harrington, as well as, another female Captain, Truman have such an important position in the Mantcore Navy.
These are new challenges that Harrington is not ready for, and thus commits her mistakes along the way.
It is a bumpy ride for her new job and all the new characters that cross her path in this second outing.
*4.7 Stars* Scorecard:  (Out of 10)* Quality of Writing - 10* Pace - 8* Plot development - 10* Characters - 10* Enjoyability - 9* Insightfulness - 10* Ease of Reading - 9* Photos/Illustrations - NAFinal Score: 66/70 = 94%*WARNING: In addition to the series' usual battle sequences and somewhat graphic death scenes, there are some terrible events that take place in this book. While the author handles them with care, they are not for young teens and older readers should be aware of what they are ge
(Out of 10)* Quality of Writing - 10* Pace - 8* Plot development - 10* Characters - 10* Enjoyability - 9* Insightfulness - 10* Ease of Reading - 9* Photos/Illustrations - NAFinal Score: 66/70 = 94%*WARNING: In addition to the series' usual battle sequences and somewhat graphic death scenes, there are some terrible events that take place in this book.
(view spoiler)[I know Weber has every character be fair game in his works, but killing Courvosier was one of the saddest moments in my reading of the Harrington series.
While difficult at times to read because of the subject matter, the author handles these issues with great care and thoughtful writing.
(Why is it that the more libertarian writers like Niven, Weber, Pournelle and frankly the vast majority of Baen's stable seem to lean heavily toward monarchy?) SKM is attempting to form a treaty with a planet (Grayson) in a star system strategically located between SKM and their main enemy the People's Republic of Haven (PRH) AKA "peeps" or "Havenites".
Harrington of course is a woman, which lead, inexorably, to all types of nonsense that no military would ever accept from it's officers .If you thought Grayson was bad, there is another habitable planet in the system (might have been a moon, I don't recall now.) Masada.
El titulo comienza siendo un juego de palabras, bastante malo, donde el nombre de la protagonista, Honor Harrington, se mezcla con que esta “pertenece” a su reina del imperio Manticoriano.Más cosas.
Es el segundo de la saga de Honor Harrington.
A este segundo 6/10, y gracias.
Pues porque el argumento es previsible, los personajes planitos y ni tan siquiera la acción continua a base de batallitas espaciales entre naves (o a pistoletazo limpio) salvan el asunto.Le he acabado porque tanta acción permite su lectura, pero para space opera militarista (ninguno de esos tres términos me ofende, conste, incluso me agradan a priori) de naves a torpedazo/laserazo/graserazo limpio las hay mucho mejores en CF: Card, Scalzi, Bujold, las batallitas de Bill héroe espacial … vamos, que no creo que siga con esta saga.Vosotros mismos.
This was a good follow-up to the wonderful 1st book in the Honor Harrington series.
It contained quite a bit more language (if that bothers you) but not enough to seem unjustified in a military sci-fi setting.
Ironically, it wasn't the military people doing the cussing, it was the religious people.Although the bad guys in this book were religious people, it didn't seem to be centered around religion bashing, which I hate as a premise of main plot vehicle.Oh...
and that damn cat seems to be getting smarter every book.
I think by book 5 the cat may be in charge of astrogation.
28Aug2011: Re-read for September in Beyond Reality group. An excellent second book to the series. The universe grows & we find out more about Honor. Excellent fights, not just with ships. 2008: No review, but I rated it with 4 stars.
I am so glad that I discovered this series walking past the best sellers section of a Stop and Shop about 2 decades ago.
This is the book I wanted when I read On Basilisk Station.For starters; the characters felt more real in general than in the previous novel.
Wolcott, for how little ‘screen-time’ she got, still managed to be significant enough that I remember her name after being done with the book.One thing I particularly liked was precisely related to something I had dreaded when I read the summary; the idea of sending a female main character into a misogynist society.
Read: a reason, not an excuse; the characterization didn’t make them many favors except by way of comparison with their neighbors.
As I am still new to the sci-fi genre, the first book in this series was difficult for me to get into.
However, starting this second book, I am glad I continued to pursue the series.This book was intriguing, eye-opening, and empowering.
I thoroughly enjoyed seeing how even a tough woman like Harrington, had to battle this sexist and rude planet and empower the own women aboard her ship.
And in addition to the beautiful character development, the action and plot made this a page-turner!If you like books with amazing female leads and some epic space battle, this is the sci-fi series for you!

Five stars if only for the simple fact that I couldn't put this down. I was a little disappointed by what length of time had elapsed from the first book, but the action very quickly picked up, and I found myself embroiled in the politics of Manticore. The climax really did sneak up on me, and it wasn't until at least six pages in that I realised that it must be. The resolution felt a tiny bit stilted to me, but I'm fascinated by this series, and very curious where it's going.
In retrospect this book is just amped version of the first in the series, but this is very good as who would not like epic space battles, David vs Goliath standoffs, clashing of social and theological norms.
