https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107032.Batman
When a company advertises the potential death of a character, however, and solicits votes from readers as to whether that character should live or die, it destroys the illusion of that pact, and, as a reader, you’re reminded that, contrary to what we want to believe, all major comic book events are contrived as ways to spike sales rather than as natural evolutions of a character’s story.
The story is contrived to create maximum mawkish sentiment, as Robin bucks the kicket only hours after meeting his real mother, one he didn’t know was alive until the beginning of the story, and one can’t help but think that it was crafted with the presumption that his death would, indeed, be the outcome.
However, in 1988 shortly after ultra-violent and dark comics The Dark Knight Returns and The Killing Joke came out and with a big budget Tim Burton movie in the works that featured no Robin, the idea of having an increasingly edgy Batman work with a kid seemed just stupid.
The Joker knows Jason Todd is Robin by the time he kills him.
Plus, there’s an issue with no one in Gotham realizing that Bruce Wayne’s ward was killed in mysterious circumstances and suddenly Batman doesn’t have a Robin.
277)Before we talk about how good this comic is, can we stop for a second to talk about Batman's gayness first?If Bruce Wayne/Batman's relationship with Dick Garyson/the first Robin is enough to raise eyebrows, then I just can't get over how...gay Bruce Wayne's relationship with Jason Todd/the second Robin is!Okay, okay.
Plus Bruce really, really didn't know much about how to help said troubled teenager to work out his issues!
The Joker's speech is just perfect!PS: but how come the Joker still didn't realize Bruce Wayne is Batman after he found out Jason Todd, Bruce's wand, is Robin!?
Batman v.s. Jason Todd/Red Hood!
This best selling 1980s graphic novel let the readers decide if the second Robin, Jason Todd, would live or die after an explosion.
The fans decided they didn't like Jason Todd much and voted to kill him and no that isn't a spoiler based on the title and cover.
There is a copy of the cover which shows Jason Todd surviving (in case the fans voted for him to live).
You should read this if you like: retro Batman, Batman & Robin, classic comics, Joker, Dick Greyson, Tim Drake, Batman/Robin dynamic.I know this is a classic but some elements of this story just feel so outdated.
His death, though, is significant if only for the shift in Joker/ Batman dynamic, and for what his loss means for the Bat family and the events to follow.
In case of the latter, I wish we had explored the physiological effects of Todd's loss on Batman and how that changes him in future comics.I liked the introduction to Tim drake, my favorite Robin after Dick Grayson.
Meanwhile Jason Todd aka Robin is working through some emotional issues and finds out that the woman he thought was his mother wasn't his biological mother so he sets off to track down his real mum.I know this book is always on peoples' lists of "must-read" Batman stories but, besides Jason's death, there really isn't anything particularly good about this story.
I've always enjoyed this story and how truly insane the Joker really is.
I grew up on the late 70's and early 80's comics and even tho the art is nowhere near where it is today, I just love the nostalgic feel they have.
When I was little, my grandfather, "Papps" (God rest his soul), took me and my brother every Friday to the comic book store, without fail, and bought us whatever we wanted.
So every time I reread one of these stories, I have fun, I smile, and I think of my awesome Grandfather and my wonderful childhood!5 stars!
I first knew about Jason Todd through the story  Under the Hood  written by Judd Winick which turned out to be his resurrection story. I watched the animation film with Supernatural's Jensen Ackles as Todd's voice actor and then I read the collected edition a few months after. To explain briefly, Jason Todd was the second Robin who succeeded Dick Grayson shortly after the latter quit and then joined the Teen Titans instead. Bruce Wayne first met Jason in the infamous Crime Alley when he was on p
I suppose many readers are just not too fond of Jason and may also think he is not as likable as Dick Grayson whom Bruce had a better chemistry and rapport with.The story itself was composed of issues Batman #426-429 and it was a compelling closer look at Jason Todd's final moments leading to his death in the hands of no other than the Joker.
I thought the story was enjoyable although everything felt like a set-up especially the coincidences where the Joker is tied with the search for Jason's missing mother so it easy for Bruce and Jason to still be Batman and Robin and fight him while having that personal side-mission on the side.Jason's death, I think, was only upsetting because it was an abrupt dramatic irony.
It felt strange having known that the readers voted for this ending. You also get an impression of the ending from the title and the front cover, so if you dont see it coming, Im not sure youve paid attention. Just was a little predictable with characters actions and too over the top in some dialogue scenes. Probably wont satisfy everyone, as shown by all the mixed reviews.
Jason is reckless and nihilistic following his parents' death, so Bats puts him on the bench.
And Bats follows the Joker not knowing Jason is already there.
Lady Shiva, American assassin and one possible mother of Jason Todd, is training Shiite terrorists.
Add to that the fact that the Joker, Bats and Robin all speak Farsi, and you can see just how insane this comic can be.
Bats and Robin beat up some terrorists.
Joker kills Robin.
To begin, I'll talk about what I enjoyed about this comic.I loved the way Batman is generally concerned for Jason Todd.
Jason becomes cruel to criminals, rather than merciful which ultimately leads to Batman forcing him to take a leave of absence.Now, Todd is not only facing the loss of his family but also is facing the loss of his way of life.
Batman and Robin just so happen to be in the same place looking for different people, but actually they are following the same case in different ways.
In addition, would the U.S. actually allow immunity to the Joker even he is some ambassador?I liked the comic, but it has its downfalls.
I love retro/old style Batman, it's my aesthetic for comic books.This set of comics was interesting because back in the day readers got to vote what happened to Robin.
That little information alone makes me more interested in this book - can you imagine eagerly waiting for the next comic to know whether or not the general public agreed with you on Robin's fate?
I plan to pick up a few more comic books to see if this is a writer issue or simply how Bruce/Batman was meant to be in the long run.
Second, no matter how bland the illustration is, a good story-line would make up for it.The plot, which I do take issue with, involves Batman's difficulties controlling his second Robin, Jason Todd, who is flying off the handle.
As if that wasn't enough to swallow, at the same time all this is going on, Jason Todd learns his real mother isn't dead, and that she is one of three possibly women, all of which, remarkably, are in the Middle East, which leads him directly to Batman.After reading Batman arcs like Batman: The Long Halloween and Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, I think I just have higher expectations for Batman graphic novels.
Batman: A Death in the Family is definitely worth reading, and you shouldn’t skip the occasion to see Joker’s plan to sell missiles to terrorists, Robin’s bitter fate, Batman’s misery due to the loss of a partner and plenty of other unpredictable surprises.Yours truly,LashaanLashaan & Trang | Bloggers and Book ReviewersOfficial blog: http://bookidote.wordpress.com______________________________If it wasn't for the grand event that makes this story arc a classic, I could definitely knock off a star or two for this trade paperback.
3.5
Batman: A Death in the Family is by and large one of the best written and most enthralling Batman graphic novels I have read thus far, easily toppling The Dark Knight Returns and The Long Halloween by a lot.The writing by Jim Starlin is fantastic and truly allows the story to play out to its fullest potential.
In short, after looking for a true-to-character Joker performance between several graphic novels, I finally found one worth admiring in A Death in the Family.
I can't say that I was the least bit disappointed in A Death in the Family, for it far exceeded my expectations and proved to be a must-read Batman tale.
However, this Robin is particularly twisted and is a far cry from the sunny-eyed one who might cry, "Holy Mackerel Batman!"Indeed, following a usual bad-guy stakeout, the story of A Death in the Family, transcends the paper-thin - Black/White morality of a bygone era.
Robin uncovers further dead ends and Batman hunts down the Joker, relentlessly.After a series of very well written and very well executed panels, we finally hit that plot-twist that has haunted/excited Batman fans for the past three decades.
In either case, A Death in the Family is a stellar exemplar of the Modern Age of comics in own present era.
I have always known about the general premise of the "A Death in the Family" before reading it, but it ended up liking it much better than I predicted.
After reading this, the "Under the Red Hood" story arch has that much more drama behind it.
And after reading "A Death in the Family" and "Red Hood and the Outlaws", I can't help but like Jason Todd.
This is a must read for all Batman comic-book fans, and one of the classics that helps make sense of Batman storyarchs in the future.
I guess you learn something new every day.Anyway, I love Tim!
The 5 stars are for the story of course: the end of Jason Todd as Robin and the beginning of Tim Drake.
This is one of the greatest stories in all of Batman history or even superhero comics history in general.
I'll even look past the awful collar on Nightwing's costume.
You win some, you lose some.I love how you get such an in depth look into Batman's complicated character and Joker's unending insanity in this collection.
Every Batman fan should have a copy of this on their shelves.
This was such an utter disappointment, I can't even put into words everything that was wrong with this story. I was going to give it two stars because I did enjoy the first half of it but it honestly doesn't even deserve that. The Joker becomes a UN AMBASSADOR FOR IRAN, let that sink in for a moment. The writing was abysmal and the art was extremely basic. I'm not sure why this has been added to so many "must read" lists.
Amazing! These books that I've read long ago but have never reviewed, or becoming more and more frequent, and its always the really good ones, what's wrong with me? So to put this short, this is definitely in my top 5 favourite batman stories! Of course it does mark a sad moment in batman comic history, but symbolises one of batmans failures, and proves that even batman can't always save the day! Honestly a very moving story, and one every batman fan has to read!

There! I’ve finally read it!Batman in the older comics has a much grittier, detective vibe it seems. Or maybe this modern stuff is so different. Good to meet you, Jason Todd. Sorry it ended up like this!Now on to write some fanfiction....
not okay
Gotta mention the toddster the angst is strong in this one, he has zero chill and some of the things he does you're just like well toddles ya done fucked up and i dunno what it is about his character that people don't like, but i don't think you warm to him in this, i think the impact of the ending is slightly tarnished with time and this being the graphic novel where robin dies, that's not a spoiler it's in the book description on the back so it's not as shocking as it probably was.
Overall it's worth reading, i definitely wanted to learn more about jason todd and whether the character will grow on me, but if you like your batman and joker off the hook, then you'll love this.
How to spot a dismal Batman book:(a) Jason Todd is Robin, and/or(b) Superman makes an appearance.What saves it is the obvious (that Jason Todd bites it), but it's still pretty bad.
Bruce Wayne and Jason Todd are nearly indistinguishable--a problem because Todd isn't supposed to look 35 years old--and they blend in with every other male face drawn.Favorite moment: Batman and Robin are dressed as Arabs, to infiltrate a terrorist training camp.
(Yeah, this was the '80s.) After the terrorists-to-be have been neutralized, Batman remarks "I see no need for these disguises anymore!" and they strip down to their Batman & Robin garb.
So this collects the ultimate moment in Batman, where things got real.
it shows that it wasn't just a grown, rich man and little boy in tights fighting crime.
It shows that Batman is human, the situations are dangerous, life threatening, and the Joker is not to be messed with.
Here though, the art is light, the colors bright, and everything is just simple.
For as great as it is (because it not only tells the death of robin, but collects the issues of the replacement robin) there are just way too many coincidences for the Death in the Family arc.
Yes. Well, my best friend is a know-it-all when it comes to batman and sent me a bunch of Batman comics straight from Peru!
So, being this the first time reading comics I have to say i enjoyed it a lot, enough to do it again.
May be.) At the end i had strong feelings about Robin, I just didn't like the kid.
He sounds a lot like someone of my generation.
And well, I end up asking myself a billion questions regarding batman but all you want to get from a review is yes, you should read it, not once but many times.
This is one of those classic stories I never got around to reading, or had much interest in until lately.
I had no real connection to Jason Todd except from the Under the Red Hood stories (and the movie).
While reading this book, I wasn't sold on Jason as a likable character, though his quest was sympathatic.
The Joker is off the wall throughout, even if the end twist is pretty darn stupid.
The real story, Jason Todd's search and end, are very well told and I like the Middle Eastern setting for it.
This is a must read for all Batman fans, its incredibly well written, the artwork is on point and the story is epic.
I've always known what happens in this book (these comics) but I didn't know how much we learnt about Jason Todd and his back story.
I really enjoyed the insight into what makes him who he is and who he becomes.
I also think the people who phoned in to vote for the outcome made the right decision as this story would have lost something if Jason hadn't been "killed".
If you haven't read this yet, get it added to your tbr!
