https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188458.A_High_Wind_in_Jamaica
And I've brought the hot oils and penicillin.' It seems a little cruel, or at least irresponsible, for A High Wind in Jamaica to have hidden in the shadows of literary obscurity for so long, forcing me to waste precious hours of my life reading dreck like V.S. Naipaul and Auster's Brooklyn Follies, but why bemoan the past when in fact we're the lucky ones?
(Okay—so I have a lot of soulmates.) This is my orgy of destiny, and the Do Not Disturb sign is on the doorknob.Just now I said that A High Wind in Jamaica has been hiding 'in the shadows of literary obscurity.' That's not exactly true.
It’s like Richard Hughes had never read a novel before writing this one.
You never know when another bit of casual violence will sandbag you or if he’ll just tell you about three-year-old Laura’s dolls made of bits of rope.I would like to discuss all the queasy moral stuff in detail but that would be Spoiler City so I cannot, my lips are sealed.
All the other reviews of this little novel will tell you how very odd it is, and they are so right, and they mark it down and they are so wrong.
The NYRB cover illustration is a small segment of Storm Gathers by Henry Darger.(view spoiler)[Darger’s story is far stranger than High Wind.
(The Bas-Thornton children are joined on the voyage back to England by two other children from a nearby estate – Margaret, thirteen, and her younger brother Harry, who runs with the Liddlies.) A bit of a (view spoiler)[Margaret in fact is an incredible character in the story, who plays a crucial part in many plot turnings - but is left almost completely unknown to the reader by Hughes.
Önümüzdeki aylarda yeni edisyonu ile yayınlarımız arasındaki yerini alacaktır.
It is the novelist who is concerned with facts, whose job it is to say what a particular man did do on a particular occasion: the lawyer does not, cannot be expected to go further than show what the ordinary man would be most likely to do under presumed circumstances."A shortcut I use when thinking about a novel, and it IS a shortcut, is to imagine fitting the book I've just read within a series of other books, or as a color made from mixing several books together.
Hughes gave the children in this novel the right to be human, to deal with complexity in their own way.
This is one of the best books I have ever fucking read.
Just go read the book already!
Then you can come back and read the rest of this review.First of all the subject matter cannot be better: pirates, kids, pigs, monkeys, goats, earthquakes, hurricanes, clue-less adults.Secondly, it's the language, stupid!
But it's not a plot-heavy book, by that I mean it doesn't rely on the plot or the twists to make it good.
It is light reading, but also very heavy if you want to read into it.
There is no lull in this book.
A surprisingly good novel, and well written, that sails quietly along without much notice or fanfare, like a ship at night. I use the nautical reference because most of this story is set on or close to the sea. But the story is about children, and how they think, and how they react to events and circumstances beyond their control. For me, there are subtle similarities to Lord of the Flies regarding the psychology of children when left to their own devices. It deserves it's place in the canon of 20th century literatue.
A High Wind in Jamaica is written in quite extraordinary almost mysterious language:“Not a breath of breeze even yet ruffled the water: yet momentarily it trembled of its own accord, shattering the reflections: then was glassy again.
On that the children held their breath, waiting for it to happen.
There is a period in the relations of children with any new grown-up in charge of them, the period between first acquaintance and the first reproof, which can only be compared to the primordial innocence of Eden.
So deliciously strange, I couldn't put it down. The prose is just fantastic.
The high wind in Jamaica was a hurricane that destroyed the already decaying Bas-Thornton property.
The close call causes the Bas-Thorntons to send their children back to Britain by merchant vessel.
The ship is visited by pirates and before you can say Ahoy, Matey, the children and the pirates are off on an adventure.
To make a simple thing of my reading of this book, the folks awaiting in Britain, including the Bas-Thorntons and the criminal justice system, misjudge the pirates.
The pirate captain, likewise, has our attention.But I think this is ultimately a book about bias and prejudice with lessons aplenty for today.
A Subversive Masterpiece[July, 2011] I have just begun reading New Yorker critic James Wood's wonderful handbook, How Fiction Works, and so am particularly attuned to questions of narrative voice: who is telling the story, with whose thoughts, and for what audience?
A perfect focus for Richard Hughes' 1929 novel, a subversive masterpiece of apparently straightforward narrative used for disturbing ends.Hughes writes like an adult telling stories to children.
By giving nature a well-bred sense of decorum with his "reasonably," "thought," and "trespassed," Hughes is playing to the children—but the comparisons to basalt and gin are disconcertingly adult.
The book opens on the island of Jamaica, in the early to mid-1800s, introducing readers to the Bas-Thornton children - in particular John and Emily.
The difference between the two novels lies in Hughes’ correct notion that when children are involved, fairy tales (or in this case, fairty tale like telling) can often be better at communicating their emotions of horror, wonder, danger, death, and awakening sexuality.
I grabbed it again this morning and, funny thing, the storm let down about the time I finished it this afternoon.
Now I don’t know if the storm was so bad as I recall it, or it was this disturbing story that made everything look so dark and disquieting for the past 2 days.First things first, this is not a children’s story.
Hughes genius shows in how well he captures these children’s voices, in special the voice of Emily.
The most delightful passage in this story is when suddenly Emily realizes her own existence.
Subconsciously, too, everyone recognizes that they are animals--why else do people always laugh when a baby does some action resembling a human, as they would at a praying mantis?
If the baby was only a less-developed man, there would be nothing funny in it, surely.Possibly a case might be made that children are not human either: but I should not accept it.
Tras un huracán la familia Bas-Thornton decide enviar a sus hijos desde Jamaica a Londres donde pretenden darles una educación mas civilizada, pero en el trayecto el barco en el que viajan sufre un abordaje pirata durante el cual los niños acabarán como pasajeros del barco atacante.Contado así puede parecer un simple libro juvenil de aventuras, pero la novela por suerte no se queda en la superficie.
At the end of the first paragraph of the introduction by Francine Prose is Indeed it recalls much about childhood that we thought (or might have wished) we had forgotten, while it labors with sly intelligence to dismantle the moral constructs that our adult selves have so painstakingly assembled.
No, it doesn't recall anything of my childhood, nor does it dismantle any moral constructs.
Why do publishers allow this type of introduction?Also, the one comment below is to keep an open mind.
So I did, although I'm not sure what it is my mind was to be open to.
The “humorous, chirpy celebration” of its prose does not seem to prepare the reader for the story’s numerous tragic reversals.What at first may appear to be a children’s adventure story of a 19th century locale and flavor quickly evolves into a 20th century immediacy of content and psychology.
It is the long-term suppression of the memories of these atavistic realities that is more frightening.How much of our true nature is “forgotten” so that we may live comfortably in our “civilized” privileges and delusions?
How much of our “civilization” destroys that which could be our true powers?And, my god, how early does that process start?This superbly constructed book will remain with me for a long time.
Richard Hughes's novel follows the story of the Bas-Thorton children as they are sent away from their childhood home of Jamaica by their parents, and captured en route to England by a band of pirates.
Early in the story Emily, the most complex of the children (or at least the most explored), experiences both an earthquake and a violent hurricane.
But Emily sees the earthquake as far more important - it's an Earthquake with a Capital E, an event that makes her interesting and gives color and texture to her life.
I can't really think of a better example of writing that captures the odd thought processes of children.
It didn't just make me think that one should always write about children like this, it actually made me remember how it felt to be that age.
And the noteworthy part of it is that the book draws a hard line between adults and children, rendering them separate species experiencing the world in a different way, with different value systems, and it is very convincing in doing so.
Agreed that their minds are not just more ignorant and stupider than ours, but differ in kind of thinking (are mad, in fact)…”Some of my favorite passages:… Laura, a queer mite of three with heavy dark eyebrows, and blue eyes, a big head-top and a receding chin - as if the Procreative Spirit was getting a little hysterical by the time it reached her.-------Being shot at is so unlike what one expects it to be that one hardly connect the two ideas enough to have the appropriate emotions, the first few times.
The book (which opens with a scene depicting the end of slavery in Jamaica) subtly explores a world in which violence becomes a commonplace-- unremarkable and unremarked upon...
The book, exploring the imaginative world of childhood, also explores the worlds we can take for granted despite their horror and danger, and what it means to have or develop empathy and conscience.
Its depiction of childhood-- which is the main current of the novel-- I found both amazingly true to life, and amazingly off the mark, all at the same time.
Strange and a little shocking but not nearly as awfulness as the introduction made it out to be. Children, left to their own devices and alone to play together in a wild and untamed landscape can make up just about anything. Throw them in the path of a boat full of sailors and who can tell what the outcome might be? Children are children and depend on adults, no matter who they are, to be taken care of. Beware adults.
The mentioned reason is concerned with its black-and-white film version (1965) I enjoyed watching on television some 44 years ago, wondering who wrote this novel with a seemingly romantic title; it was the first time I knew Richard Hughes so I delightfully bought its Penguin paperback paying THB 18 at the D.K. Book House in Bangkok (now a copy of brownish and brittle paper, it needs to be handled with care due to its age) one day in January 1973.
This slim novel by Richard Hughes (1900 – 1976), published in 1929, comes as a cornucopia offering lots of surprises to the reader. Its tone is oscillating, meandering between poetic and psychological contemplations, subtle irony and sturdy humor and takes the reader along on an adventurously sea journey exploring the borderland between innocence and atrocity. Similar to Henry James “The Turn of a Screw” the reader is confronted with the question whether or not children really are the little inn
The expedition Hughes invites us to take part in offers a diversity of possibilities to trace this question.In the center of the novel we find 10 year old Emily Bas-Thornton who is going to undertake a sea journey from Jamaica to England.
Doch schon nach kurzer Seefahrt wird das Schiff von erstaunlich freundlichen Piraten gekapert und die Kinder setzen ihre Reise auf deren Schiff fort, ohne die Situation zu erkennen bzw.
I found it a great read, totally entertaining and full of interesting questions about child rearing and the uses of children in the legal system.
"It was a kind of paradise for English children to come to, whatever it might be for their parents: especially at that time, when no one lived in at all a wild way at home.
Emily and Rachel had their hair cut short and were allowed to do everything the boys did--to climb trees, swim and trap animals and birds; they even had two pockets in their frocks." Feral children then, who also read books.
A confession: every now and then, when telling a story that took place some time ago, I find myself thinking "did that actually happen that way, or have I maybe changed it a little bit over time?" I'm not saying I'm a pathological liar, or even that I have an unusually shaky relationship with the truth.
But it is (I think) not a unique situation.Now. A High Wind in Jamaica isn't a story about an unreliable narrator.
As we track the children's (and especially Emily's) reactions and behaviors, we see a gradual distortion of the truth taking place as clearly as in any book I can think of.
Being nearly four years old, she was certainly a child: and children are human (if one allows the term "human" a wide sense): but she had not altogether ceased to be a baby: and babies are of course not human--they are animals, and have a very ancient and ramified culture, as cats have, and fishes, and even snakes: the same in kind as these, but much more complicated and vivid, since babies are, after all, one of the most developed species of the lower vertebrates.
If the baby was only a less-developed man, there would be nothing funny in it, surely.
This is such a weird piece of fiction. It reads like a feverish nightmare regarding a set of children who are kidnapped or joins a group of pirates. Sort of a combination of "Treasure Island," and "Lord of the Flies."
An unusual novel with some quite malevolent undertones. Enjoyed the setting, a lush and sultry Jamaica and life aboard a pirate vessel. It was the characters themselves that I found difficult to like, both child and adult. It's certainly a well written novel just not one that I felt an affinity to.
I'd started this book ten years ago, and though it was short, I couldn't finish it because I don't normally like the sea (or space) in fiction.
Unfinished books cause one minute of anxiety for: (every year they're not finished) X (the number of hundreds of pages in the book) X (1 + the percentage of the book finished).
The book had caused me 22 minutes of anxiety, spread out in at least 98 different mind-bursts over the last ten years.
Hughes writes things like "One couldn't know the mind of a child" too often, but he does seem to understand the zaniness, seriousness, and preoccupation of his British-Jamaican characters as they're stolen away by rather kindly marauders.
