https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1577167.Naughty_Neighbor
4.5/5I've never read this author before so I had no idea what to expect. After reading both positive and negative reviews, I decided to read this book anyway. I'm glad I did because it was incredibly good though it was a bit cheesy. I found the story was funny, entertaining, fast-paced, and so sweet. This book mainly focused on the hero and heroine who were so adorable. I loved the way they were attracted to each other. Both of them weren't perfect, but they were perfect together! Oh, so cute!I had a good time reading it!
A short entertaining beach read. Early works of JE are just some fun reading!
Naughty Neighbor is a pre-Plum romance by popular American author, Janet Evanovich.
Louisa Brannigan has a great job looking as Press Secretary for Nolan Bishop, and she doesn’t need an upstairs neighbour who disturbs her sleep, steals her paper and takes her car space.
Pete Streeter is a movie screenwriter who seems to be the target of some nasty people, and Louisa’s car, parked in his space, bears the brunt of it.
This one is mainly romance with a touch of (very vague) intrigue.
There is some fun dialogue, but the story is just a bit too drawn out.
Yes, there is a pig on the cover of this book for a reason I also like that I can relate to many of Evanovich’s stories.
You know I don’t like spoilers.I will leave you with a couple of parts of the book that I loved though.“The table was set for two with a white linen tablecloth, wineglasses and lavender candles.
If anyone else has read this book and thinks I’m reading wrong, please let me know.If you can overlook the typos, pretend there are four bookmarks.
The story is on the shorter side, and I felt these characters had so much more to say and I wanted to get to know them more!This quirky little story really tickled me and I didn't expect that since my initial impression was that this might be a random audio miss.
Otherwise, she was delightful and so was the story.All in all, this is a cute little audio book that showcases some great work by Critt and by Evanovich.
If you are anything like me though, you'll want more substance to the story so you can hang out with Louisa and Pete for a little while longer.
Though there are flashes of humor throughout, the plotting is inconsistent, the characters are underdeveloped, the mystery lacks complexity, and the romance is implausible.On the other hand, this is the kind of thing that kept Evanovich writing, and she eventually hit One for the Money, Stephanie Plum's debut.
While the characters in this book--the Naughty Neighbors in the title--are no Stephanie and Morelli (or Ranger, if you prefer), there is trace evidence here.
It's almost like a point on a graph that illustrates Evanovich's growth as a writer, and the progression from Naughty Neighbors to One for the Money is unmistakable.
I can always depend on Janet Evanovich for a funny, lighthearted, silly read.
He is noisy, steals her morning paper and funny smells come from his apartment.
Pete can hear everything in Louisa's apartment, including her phone calls from her mom.
After her boss, a Senator, finds out she has an association with Pete, he fires her suddenly and the mystery begins.
Pete and Louisa work together to find out what is going on.There is nothing serious about this read.
It goes quickly with some humor, romance, and good banter, perfect for a rainy day read.
Louisa and Peter were a fun pair. Two opposites that definitely attracted. A really fun book to read.
This is a really cheesy romance. The storyline was a bit far-fetched however I found it intriguing. Anyone looking for a quick and funny romance will enjoy this.
I snagged this book off the exchange rack at the library simply because it was a Janet Evanovich book. I've looked at these "before the time of Plum" novels in bookstores, but didn't want to buy them because they look like "fluff" to me. So I was excited to find a chance to read a "guilty pleasure" book.I read Evanovich's note to the reader in this book & loved it. She explains that "in a previous life, before the time of Plum" she had written 12 short romance novels. It  is  fluff & I f
I've looked at these "before the time of Plum" novels in bookstores, but didn't want to buy them because they look like "fluff" to me.
So I was excited to find a chance to read a "guilty pleasure" book.I read Evanovich's note to the reader in this book & loved it.
It doesn't fit into my annual theme & I should be reading the next book on the library's reading list, not indulging in "guilty pleasure." I skipped several passages, because I felt that I wasn't old enough to read them.
This was my first-ever Janet Evanovich book and I absolutely loved it!
Just ask my poor hubby, who had to stop what he was doing several times to listen to me read funny passages to him!The best thing about this book was the absolute MALENESS of the "hero." Evanovich wrote his dialogue and inner thoughts just like a real guy, which completely tickled me.
This isn't a 5-star book because of extraodinary depth of characters, story or world-building.
It's a 5-star book because it's a total crack-up and I saw myself in a lot of the neurotic behavior of the characters.
Not anywhere near one of her better works - in the end I only read it because the cover was yellow
I like to tell things as it is : the pig made me buy this book.Well, not literally, of course I didn't hear a hog tell me to grab it, but when I saw this cutie on the cover, I clicked on the add to cart button and that was it.
But don't waste your breathe waiting for him to be in the story, however😞."Pete Streeter was to her life what the big bang had been to the creation of the universe." Louisa's existence was peaceful before Pete became her neighbor.
Sharing close quarter with her outrageous and insufferable neighbor might be more dangerous for her peace of mind.
Meh. This story was ok but rather ridiculous at the same time.
This was a light, enjoyable story of a neighbor who was a little naughty and a lot desirable. It was kind of reminiscent of Stephanie Plum, but not quite as comical. Louisa and Pete are believable and fun to read about. Loved it!
It took so long and I must have rolled my eyes a hundred times over.Louisa was now and again TSTL, and honestly so was he once or twice too.
He was a macho pig, and she was a wimp and complained all the time.
Sure I have read another one of Evanovich earlier tries and it was mediocre, and now where near her Plum novels but this one would deserve better too.I am not an audio book kind of girl.Blodeuedd's Cover thoughts: Very cute :)Why I read it: Well listened1, I will stick to reading books.
And if anyone loving Evanovich has read it then tell me if it's better to read it.
This was one of the cheesiest romance novels I've ever read.
In addition to the romance plot line there was also a mystery plot line that seemed implausible and I had trouble following.
People say that Evanovich is really funny but that wasn't true of this book.To be fair, this book was written pre-Stephanie Plum days and probably wouldn't have been rereleased if it wasn't for the success of the Stephanie Plum series.
I've only read One for the Money and it was quite a bit better than this book.I listened to the audio version of this book and the narrator was not good.
I may have liked this book better if I had read the paper version.

I'm not really sure what to say. I have no idea what the "pig" story was all about, I got fed up with all the "inner thoughts" by both, Louisa and Pete half way through the book - it felt repetitious, AND it wasn't really near as funny as most of the other Evanovich stories. Bottom line ... I wouldn't bother. As you can see, I can't even bother spending more time to write something about it .... says it all, doesn't it?
Reading this should give any starting author hope. This proves that one of your first books can be total crap and you can go on to be a very successful writer. The writing is choppy at best. The scenarios are more than improbable. The characters have few redeeming qualities. The plot is nonexistent. So why two stars and not one? Because it was merely bad. Sort or like something a friend has asked you to read. OK for an amateur, but not something you'd expect to be published anywhere.
A cute book, but the characters really got on my nerves after a while. Pete is kind of an ass and Louisa is not nearly as funny as Stephanie Plum. She's also actually kind of irritating. The mystery is also solved too fast and far too easily. The book has good bits of humor throughout and I enjoyed reading it as it shows where Ms. Evanovich started and her talent even then. Still, I like her later books better.
Louisa and Pete prove that romance can bud from that person you think is exactly what your not looking for in a partner.
Pete offers her a job after she loses her job and Louisa finds herself sneaking around in the dark in an undercover investigation for a story that Pete is hoping to get involving a pig.
Louisa finds she enjoys not following all the rules and stepping out on the ledge a little.
Pete's attractive, rich and fun, he just might be the one.
Pete does his best to prove to Louisa that they are destined to be married.
Cliche and corny.....but I knew that going in anyway. Entertaining if you like goofy romances.
I HATE this book. It was the biggest Barnes and Noble mistake I ever made. I traveled cross country and bought the audio book in the hopes that it would make the drive easier. I almost crashed from boredom. The characters - especially the male lead - are incredibly annoying. I couldn't stick around to see any romance blossom between these two unbelievable, vapid, moronic characters.What's worse is I couldn't get my money back at B&N because the shrink wrap had been removed. This is by far the worse literary purchase I have ever made. DON'T DO IT!
Fluff like this is the reason women have unrealistic expectations when it comes to romantic relationships. Hot, rich, womanizing emotionally unavailable guy falls in insta-love with regular hot mess girl. Of course, he's never felt like this about anyone before. Try that in real life and see how it works out for you, ladies.
The biggest thing about this book that bothers me is that a cat is being fed foods that would kill it. Evanovich should have done her homework. I was in the mood for a quick chuckle, so I turned to Janet Evanovich. Witty, cute, and ridiculously trite. But face it, no one reads Evanovich and expects answers to life's big questions.
This is one of her early books and you can tell. Is it fun? yes Can you see glimpses of her Motor Mouth series and One for the Money (which are both excellent)? yes, but she doesn't have the character development that happens later on. She is practicing becoming a seasoned writer with this book. Better than a harlequin romance, but not much (probably only because I like the humor).
Cute book with decent plot, humor, action and sex but it was short and sometimes disjoint making it seem almost like a condensed version. Louisa’s loud neighbor, screen-writer Pete, causes her to lose her government aide job so she helps him with undercover investigation.
uuuugh this book was soooo baddddd. she was lame and he was kind of rapey. the whole mystery part of the book was so stupid i couldn't even pay attention to it. and the person reading it on cd had the most annoying way of reading. she sounded like cheri o'teri impersonating barbara walters.
Janet Evanovich is always a good read. A light screball comedy romance, but still a satisfying read. It give me something to read while waitng for her next Stephanie Plum book.
