https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376613.The_Cobra_Event
I have read many of Richard Preston's books that relate to potential biological hazards and he never fails to bring the suspense.
In fact, this book has one of the top 5 most suspenseful scenes I have EVER read in a book.
. .), but lets just say a character has to make a split second decision that will have you hanging on the edge of your seat!If you are a thriller fan, you owe it to yourself to read this book!Side note of interesting trivia: Richard Preston is the brother of Douglas Preston - who writes the Pendergast series with Lincoln Child.
Sometimes you just crave a classic thriller -- and there is a reason that Richard Preston's THE COBRA EVENT is a classic. A tale of a biological warfare attack on Manhattan, it's the sort of impeccably researched scare-fest that really does keep even a jaded novelist like me reading well past my bedtime.
This book was amazing! Richard Preston, the author of "The Hot Zone," (the true story of the Ebola outbreak of a monkey research facility in Virginia) knows his stuff! This man is brilliant! Honestly, I can't say it enough. He knows diseases, virology, epidemiology, criminology and suspense. He KNOWS his stuff. Seriously if you haven't read any of his books, shame on you, get to it! NOW!
Unfortunately I was eating lunch when I started the book and lost my appetite (which has never actually happened to me).I'm 200 pages into the book and the characters, setting, and descriptions are weak.
It's like Preston followed a simple book writing formula, first introduce character, then describe character, describe setting, add something unique or personal...
I'm half way through the book and almost nothing has happened because Preston has spent too much time giving a history lesson and raving about everyone's lack of security.
While I would have given this book a five star rating, some parts were jumping back and worth a little too much.
The author did a lot of research on it, but he also fictionalized some parts (mainly names and instructions on how to build weapons - for obvious reasons).
It kept jumping from the unknowing victims and their final days to doctors to army personal and how they want to deal with the threat.
Another thing that is scary is that a lot of countries have the power to grow these viruses.
The book is scary.
It's exciting up until the point where the virus outbreak occurs, and then it sort of sinks into typical survivalist post-apoc fare.This one, however, is very likely the best NOVEL written ever about a viral outbreak.
Specifically, "The Hot Zone" focuses on the threat of zoonosis, or viruses contracted from animals, especially with the leveling of the rainforest (which exposes new species and their bugs), modern transportation, etc."The Cobra Event" focuses on a different kind of threat--bio engineered and weaponized viruses.
As such it reads more like an action/investigation thriller, which I liked.All around, this book gets 5 huge hot viral stars from me.
You feel strange blisters in your mouth.
What follows is a flurry of scientific activities as they battle to discover the properties of this new virus, because doing that would help identify the terrorist.This is one of those kinds of books I refer to as edutainment.
There were lots of biological and medical stuffs I liked in the book.
The author seemed to explain everything, and with too many details, the reading experience felt like science lecture sometimes.
The bad guy, a scientist-turned-terrorist, however, was a real bad guy.Overall, I’d say The Cobra Event is a wonderful read.
The slow buildup as the virus starts to be found, the uncertainty of the source or nature of it, the small snippets of real-life background of biological weapon research and development.
But once the source starts to be revealed the book really loses its way and degenerates into a generic chase with an inevitable conclusion.
Now it's not that I don't want the good guys to win but it was so predictable and cliched it really let the book down.
The start was great with random people dropping, terrifying symptoms, panic and uncertainty.
The CDC, New York City police and fire department, and the FBI form "Reachdeep" -- a criminal investigation team working together to solve biological weapons mystery before a deadly "brainpox" virus is released worldwide.A great deal of the book is based on facts that we should all be aware of now.
The programs covered how a virus works in great detail--the Ebola virus--how they are dealt with (quarantine), biopsy, naming of a virus, how they are passed,biological warfare, different levels of safety (suiting up)--I already knew it all from reading this excellent, WELL-RESEARCHED novel.I have looked at his more recent books--Preston writes a great deal of nonfiction.
the idea behind this book was solid and interesting but poorly executed.
Quite simply, the writing broke the book with its overuse of passive verbs, inconsistent verb tense and overall repetition of words.
From the technical aspect, this book seemed like it originated from someone who had neither read a novel nor took a writing class.
Despite its gore, the book talked down to its audience in an insulting fashion (perhaps Richard Preston secretly agrees with his villain?).
Still, the book's premise held originality and it certainly played a role in inspiring Scott Sigler's Infected, so for that alone the book deserves some credit.
2.5 stars.
A good story but not very good writing.
+ Page 57: " [he] fitted a chain mail glove over his left hand.
...the prosector wears a metal glove on one hand … Most accidental knife cuts during autopsy occur on the pathologist's non-dominant hand.
In most people that's the left hand.
You hold the knife in your dominant hand.
So accidental cuts usually occur on the nondominant hand.
You wear a chain mail glove on your nondominant hand." (And there's more, but that's a taste of it.
"The Hot Zone" scared me to death when I read it 20 years or so ago. I missed his fictionalized version of what a bio-terror event might look like in a major city. A little stilted at times (when Preston tried to inject more fiction-type elements into the book, he is really a better non-fiction writer) but overall really well-researched and terrifying. A little dated as it's almost 20 years old, but still a good read.
This author kind of reminds me of Michael Crichton and Dan Brown, in that it's written like a screen play. I read this book and still got a C in my bioterrorism course. LAME.
4.5 starsRe-read. A thrilling story that seems almost plausible by today's standards. That is what makes this story truly horrifying!Recommended!
Richard Preston needs to learn how to write a cohesive story. Plain and simple. Honestly got a page in and had to stop, it was so bad.
I have no words. Read the book. Read it, in all of its sciency amazingness. The first book to ever scare the actual living heck out of me, but in such a good, adrenaline-filled way that I don't even care. Read the book.
I don't often read the afterword in novels, but I did for some reason with this one, and in doing so had some of my problems with the book confirmed.
Preston admits himself that this is a blend of fiction and non-fiction: that he'd taken a non-fiction scenario and non-fiction research and fictionalised them.
I was watching Jordan Peterson the other day (if you don't know who he is, you should, so I'm not explaining him) and he said you should always know 90% more than you speak about.
If you like pandemic, apocalyptic novels, then this is a must read on your list.
It was a great book, equally chilling and at the same time believeable.
But the CDC, working with the FBI and other federal investigators, do eventually corner the scientist.
It ends with he himself getting infected with his disease, then getting captured by the FBI.
The strain itself had spread to the rodent population in the subways of NY, but at the end of the book, the CDC captures the rodents.
The Cobra Event is extremely realistic, in that if a bio-weapon were to get onto a plane or subway, it could easily spread through out a city or country.
My thrill and excitement for this novel started to dissipate a little more than halfway through.
Possibly at my own fault, not sure.
There were moments in which I wasn't sure if the author desired to tell a great story or to anecdote a great textbook.
The story would be moving along quite nicely and then we'd pause, take a step back away from the setting & characters, and discuss real-life biology or geography or science history.
It puts me in the mind of a Douglas Preston novel which makes me ask if authors Douglas & Richard share more than just a last name.
I read the majority of this book with my shirt over my mouth and nose, the scenes in this novel were disturbing and I couldn't help it.
This had more gruesome descriptions than The Hot Zone, or I was just more disturbed because the autopsies were on humans, not monkeys.
As T.S. Eliot wrote, the world will end not with a bang but a whimper.
Disease causes a whimper, not a bang.This novel follows Alice (does Preston always center on female protagonists?) as she connects the death of two strange deaths in NYC.
I had already read Preston's ground-breaking non-fiction The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus. But a fiction writer he ain't.Cardboard characters, a stupidly evil villain, an incredulous plot, and worst of all, poor writing.I expected much better after having read his non-fiction.No match for Michael CrichtonIf you haven't read it, I would give it a miss.
I think that it definitely made the book more suspenseful because the disease was extremely contagious (as contagious as the common cold), and caused fatal symptoms, especially considering that there was some knowledge of this disease that the characters didn’t.The story did a fairly good job of keeping the reader interested and curious throughout the book, with lots of bits of real-world information and also information from the fictitious world.
I think that the author of this book was really trying to recreate a Michael Crichton-style novel, full of relevant, well written information, yet left readers who were expecting that (such as me) disappointed.
Woah. This book is scary. I give it four stars rather than five just because I found that the nonfiction information was put into the book in a bit of a disconnected way. But the information was still fascinating and terrifying. The fictional story kept you on the edge of your seat too. What a ride. I think I need to take a break from Preston's work so I don't get too paranoid, but I love it too, so we will see.
Sometimes I just need to read a good thriller about deadly weaponized pathogens. Despite being written 21 years ago, this book holds up well. I'd like to note that New York's Second Avenue subway line was finally completed and opened Jan. 1, 2017. 😉
The Cobra Event tells the story of a genetically engineered biological weapon and the government task force put together to stop it.
There are a lot of characters of color and women (and women of color) in the task force and, for the most part, the women are professional and competent, just like the men, but, let's be honest, Preston just cannot write the ladies.
The characters are not so hot, but the thriller part did its job.
I did okay with Hot Zone, but this book skeeved me out a couple times; self-harm is a major component of the story.
It contained 404 total pages, and was published by Random House Inc. I was interested in reading this book due to my interest in forensic and medical sciences.
And I had heard about his books before and wanted to try one out for myself.The main character in the novel is Dr. Alice Auster.
Kate is Auster’s first real lead in her investigation.
When she finds the source of this violent outbreak she forms a team called Reachdeep to help stop it from killing anymore people.
I would recommend this book for people who can handle a slower read with an interest in a real world scare.
If you want to be scared to death by a fiction book that is solidly grounded in fact and almost reads like nonfiction, The Cobra Event will fit that description.The bioweapon used in Preston's The Cobra Event, is a genetically engineered viral brain pox being slowly "tested" on humans by one crazed man.
This is a very gripping story because it is so based on real facts.Ultimately, Richard Preston is a nonfiction writer and he writes like one.
His facts are gripping and the story certainly moves along, but The Cobra Event often reads like an nonfiction account of an event.You'll never look at a runny nose the same way...http://shetreadssoftly.blogspot.com/
The problem mostly was in the beginning, because it was a slow start and it took a bit to really build up the action after the "prologue" where the girl died in her high school.
It was a perfect blend of fiction and real life science and it kept me wanting to read more every time I stopped.
I had to read Richard Preston's non-fiction books (Demon in the Freezer and The Hot Zone) as part of biology class in high school, and i loved his writing in both of those, but I definitely think that The Cobra Event is my favorite one out of the three!
This was the first book I ever bought to read for pleasure on my own.
It's still on of my all-time favorites.
This also started my obsession with medical thrillers.
Since he had written only non-fiction before this, he did a great job sticking to procedures, descriptions, and movement rather than characters and emotions.
This book will have you washing your hands 15 times an hour, and staying inside of a fort made with HEPA filters.
The best part about this book is the fact that even though the story is fiction this could still end up happening.
I loved this book.
It is a great medical mystery.
You will love it if you're into that kind of thing.
The suspense is incredible.
And the mystery.
Oh. I never knew what was coming next.
I loved all the twists and turns.
And I must admit, I loved the gory parts too.
I would not recommend this book if you are in any way squeemish.
There are some intense passages in which a lot of gory images are presented.
Richard Preston does an amazing job of presenting the story.
The imagery is incredible.
I highly recommend this book.
