https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78408.Lemony_Snicket
It was then that I began to realize something vital: Beneath all the puns and stilted language and Edward Gorey-dom of the rest of the Series of Unfortunate Events books lies the delightfully sinister tale of Lemony Snicket himself (of which the Unauthorized Biography is the sourcebook), and it is THAT story -- not the sad, sad tale of the Beaudelaire orphans, ad nauseum -- that is at the heart of the whole series.You must have read at least the first four or five of the SoUE books in order to understand the appeal of the Unauthorized Autobiography, but it's worth looking at even if you haven't read the whole series.If possible, read the hardback edition.
I fell in love with these books when I was 11 and kept reading them devotedly as they came out.
The two of them together jumpstarted my love of the series to a new level.
For the first time I joined an online forum and introduced myself to the world of the internet.
I started a commonplace notebook, created theories, looked for clues, talked with other rabid fans, and it was fantastic.The final book in the series was somewhat disappointing, but I still appreciate what it did in a sense.
I don't know if I'd have later joined CR, played Mafia, found MSPA, or anything if it hadn't been for my experiences with this book.
I'm quite unsure of my feelings for this book. I did find some parts highly entertaining but I found other parts incredibly far fetched and had to force myself not to skim through them. I love this series to pieces, it was a huge part of my childhood and will always hold a special place in my heart. That being said, I honestly could have done without reading this one. I don't find it added anything particularly special to an otherwise spectacular series.
Very silly, and has a reversible cover so you can hide what you're reading and disguise it as The Pony Party, a story about the luckiest kids in the world.This is not a volume of the bestselling series; rather, it is supposedly an autobiography about its author, but somehow also unauthorized.
Children about the ages of Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire are pictured happily riding a pony, and false information is made up for an author and an illustrator to make it look like an entirely authentic yet ridiculously sappy book.Many disclaimers are placed throughout this book to make it more confusing and less than helpful, and great care is taken to reveal absolutely no information about the Snicket/Baudelaire case.
But it's wonderful back story for the fans.But aside from that, I realised: all of the chapter titles that have been 'replaced' by Lemony Snicket - the titles that contain pertinent questions to the series - are indeed answered, or at least strongly implied within the chapters.
- Lemony writes in his theatrical review that he is engaged to be married to the actress in the original casting of the play, and he also mentions that her replacement, Esme, "cannot whistle Mozart's Fourteenth Symphony, as the play requires." We know from ASOUE that the Baudelaire's mother was able to whistle Mozart's Fourteenth symphony, so...
But no, "these are simply not the proper questions" and, to keep the Baudelaire's file as protected and possible, Lemony decides to deal with other issues: his supposed affiliation to VFD, how the organization supposedly works, where it supposedly resides, who supposedly works for it and who supposedly betrayed it in the first place."This book does not appear to be a forgery, which is not to say that the story is true - only that it is accurate."At the end of this book you're not left with much.
No hard feelings there Lemony, when I'll re-read the Series I'll come back to this little gem and will judge again!
The only reason I didn't like this book was simply because I didn't understand it.
However someone bought it for me- along with Unfortunate Events books 1,2,6 & 7 (in that order!) so I decided to give it a go.
I have to confess that I have never gotten into the Unfortunate Events series probably because even though I think he is a very unique writer & can be very funny, he can also be very fustrating.
I really think that to enjoy (& understand) this book you'll need to have read the stories since it all seems to tie in.
Okay, this book acknowledged most (but not all) of my questions, then systematically didn't answer them.
Also, at times, the writing crossed the line from "humorously silly" to "annoying and somewhat difficult to read." The entire book seemed to really lack a point, and certainly didn't even pretend to have a plot.
But I have to say, the most frustrating thing was the way the chapters were titled with relevant questions (ex.
Had it taken me more than a couple of lazy hours to read, I would have skipped this book.
This is one of the most oddball books ever written.
It is primarily designed to confuse and confound...it's like House of Leaves crossed with Pale Fire and Monty Python.
I found this book before I had even heard of the 'Unfortunate Events' series, so you can imagine how confused *I* was.
"Unfortunate Events" readers may be disappointed in this...but people who like a cerebral giggle or two with their reading might enjoy.If there is some moral or lesson to be learned from this puzzle of a book...identity can be changed, but at what cost?
i just love this world. i wish there were (even) more than 13 a series of unfortunate events books. they made me feel so smart and involved (and entertained!) in my childhood. ugh i love everything about them.
I even missed Lemony Snicket's vocabulary lessons.I do wish the book answered even one of the 3167 (just a made-up number, if it's not obvious HAHA) questions I originally had about certain things in the series.
The book was just as mysterious as each of the 13 books of the series were, and even though it added more questions to my original 3167 unanswered ones, I enjoyed flipping through one page to another.
The book added more spice to the actual series by revealing certain events that happened behind-the-scenes, yet after reading about them, you will still find yourself not having an answer to the big question of  WHY?
Passage: P.15 and 16 My aunt, who is either a woman named Julie Blattberg or a woman whose name I am pretending is Julie Blattberg, gave me a small key that unlocked a box that contained a key which in turn unlocked a box that contained a key which in turn unlocked another box that contained the information that makes up this book, and made me swear never to let it reach the public, even in the enormous, imposing living room of some abstruse-a word which here means "cryptic"-private club, among trusted associates enjoying after-dinner brandy...
Update:I re-read this book after having re-read all 13 ASOUE books, and it makes so much more sense!
Each chapter answered a few of my questions, but it raised 50 more.The beginning is super confusing.
For the first 30 pages or so I was completely lost and even considered putting down the book.
Lemony Snicket books are usually quite sad (after all, they revolve around some VERY unfortunate events), and this book is no exception.
The author obviously put a lot of thought and care while creating the ASOUE universe, and it really shows.Really, my only complaint is that it was hard to read the notes Lemony Snicket "penned-in".
Throughout his books, Lemony Snicket tries to persuade his readers to give up on The Series of Unfortunate Events, but I just didn't listen.
They were too witty and amusing, so I read through the entire series only to find that when Snicket warned that there would not be a happy ending, what he really meant was that there wouldn't be a satisfying ending that answered the mysteries from the rest of the series.So. Frustrating.
And then I discovered this book, whose title page promises to answer most of those burning questions.
So, yes, I guess I am blaming you, Lemony Snicket.
This book has a lot of nicely delivered tidbits regarding the Snickets, and, as far as is relevant, the Baudelaires and V.F.D., as well as many of the other characters that appear in A Series of Unfortunate Events.
The funny thing is I always just wish the chapters would address what they originally were about, rather than answering Mr. Snicket's own curious questions.
The writing style is naturally consistent, and the presentation, at least of the hardcover edition, is fantastic (that reversible dust jacket design is just genius).At first I thought this book doesn't really answer anything, though it almost seems to promise to, but by the end I felt like I had just that much more of an understanding of this very unique world that the author has created.

I JUST NEED ANSWERS THAT ARE CLEAR AS DAY WHY IS IT SO HARD 😭😭😭 this series has literally ruined my life since I was 6 (I am almost 20) One good thing is that this is a series that I have enjoyed no matter my age which shows great writing ability by lemony
Dreamers, les diré que este libro no es nada de lo que me esperaba, ya que obviamente por el titulo 
need to reread this some other time to fully explore and enjoy it :3
This is my favorite of all the lemony snicket pieces. I didn't know this was a sad occasion.
Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography: Or, No Answers Here As an ASOUE avid reader, if you were expecting answers to some VERY FREQUENTLY DEMANDED questions, you've come to the wrong place. This "unauthorized autobiography" literally teases the tortured reader with 13 chapters, each titled with an important question to the mystery revolving around the Baudelaires and Lemony Snicket. However, each titled question is crossed-out and a new, less important (sometimes useless) question is i
This "unauthorized autobiography" literally teases the tortured reader with 13 chapters, each titled with an important question to the mystery revolving around the Baudelaires and Lemony Snicket.
It's not very fun to think you'll finally get answers only to learn you won't be and you are wasting your time.Look, look -- I'm not bitter or anything and I know it might be "the point" of it all (In life, you won't always get answers.
Who knows?After finishing ASOUE's Volume 13, The End, and facing that crushing disappointment, this was just another sting to the gaping wound.
If I could give this book zero out of five, I would.I thought that all my questions would be answered when I read this book.
I was very disappointed in Lemony Snicket because books 1-10 in "A Series of Unfortunate Events" were pretty good.
I thought that it would all become self-explanatory when I read Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography, but sadly, it was not.Furthermore, I was not happy that this book did not feature the Baudelaire orphans.
Snicket's series revolved around the unlucky events of the Baudelaire lives.
GUYS LEMONY SNICKET IS NOT REAL!Okay:) I did an autobiography project in 3rd garde and picked Lemmony Snicket cause I was reading the series at the time.
So...I don't really remember this book...shh!
Everyone was checking out these autobiographies and I grabbed this one and the mean librarian stopped me (school library) and was like, "He's not real!
You have to pick a real person!
Then I went back the next day and got this book...ha!
No joke.
No even joke.:) So it was pretty cool.
:)Gooooood times.
Good times.
As a break between the 11th and 12th books in The Series of Unfortunate Events series, here's a mostly incoherent and nonsequitor fake autobiography of the fake author of these books.
It's full of clues for some of the big reveals later in the series, but mostly is an opportunity for the author to indulge his stylistic whims.
I'm sure this will be interesting to flip back through again once the series is over.Additionally, the reversible cover to turn it into the book "The Pony Party: The Happiest Kids in the World" is genius.
This was a fun and interesting book, but it also didn't make a whole lot of sense and it raised more questions than it answered.
¡Qué libro más confuso! ¡Por supuesto que no develó ningún misterio (o yo aún no fui lo suficientemente astuta para descifrar las frases en código)! ¡Y por supuesto que igual es delicioso leerlo! Porque es como caer en mitad de una fiesta en la que hay mucha gente y se están contando historias interesantes, pero uno sólo puede captar frases al vuelo.Se entiende la grandeza de lo narrado pero no las particularidades.Snicket, te sigo amando.
Simply, ridiculous nonsense. This writing style is not for me and this was a waste of my time.
This was an interesting book.
There's quite a few answers concerning the V.F.D. organisation and how they recruit volunteers.
There's a lot of mystery on Snicket still, and a few answers on why Tue Daily Pumctilio seems so completely crazy all the time.
There's hints here and there on other members and on Olaf and his associates, so all in all quite interesting, but not fulfilling to all the question one ends up with after the books.
What was the most fun, I think, was figuring out Snicket's handwriting.
I will admit freely that I don't think I understand anything about the universe of ASOE, and therefore everything I think can be taken with a grain of salt.
That said, I enjoyed reading this and I think it works as a great companion based mostly on the fact that it reveals a lot more about VFD than we knew from the original series...
inspired me to get at least a little involved in the series again!
Bit of a tough read at times for me (though, of course, I've forgotten some details over the years) but...
like I said, potentially just me.
This book gets a 9/10.The reason being is because it was kinda confusing. It was a good book and told a few interesting stories, but I kinda got lost. One of my favorite parts was when it was talking about Lemony's marriage with Beatrice. In the part there was a hidden massage. Over all the book was good and confusing. But after reading some of the parts agien it became clearer. This is why it deserves the 9/10 rating.
