https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4122.Built_to_Last
This is the essence of clock building.5 specific methods to preserve the core and stimulate progress:BHAGs: Commitment to challenging, audacious - and often risky - goals and projects toward which a visionary company channels its efforts (stimulates progress)Cult-like Cultures: Great places to work only for those who buy into the core ideology; those that don't fit with the ideology are ejected like a virus (preserves the core)Try a Lot of Stuff and Keep What Works: High levels of action and experimentation - often unplanned and undirected - that produce new and unexpected paths of progress and enables visionary companies to mimic the biological evolution of species (stimulates progress)Home-grown Management: Promotion from within, bringing to senior levels only those who've spent significant time steeped in the core ideology of the company (preserves the core)Good Enough Never Is: A continual process of relentless self-improvement with the aim of doing better and better, forever into the future (stimulates progress)-A BHAG should be so clear and compelling that it requires little or no explanation.
- استراتيجيات بعيدة المدى تكون أهم من الأشخاص ولا تتغير بتغيرهم - نظم جادة تتحول لعقيدة تعمل المنظومة كلها وفقا لها- أفكار جريئة لا خجولة ولا متهورةهذا المزيج لابد من توفره لتتحول الشركات إلى عملاق يسيطر ويستمر لأجيالهذا يجعلنا نعرف البون الشاسع بين هذه الشركات وشركاتنا العربية التي تكون في الغالب مرتبطة بمن يجلس على الكرسي وتتغير بتغير ألوان ياقته
This is one of the few business books I read cover to cover. I found its idea of what makes companies great to be an inspiring one. It led me to formulate my own "Big Hairy Audacious Goal," which I've tried to use to guide my company ever since: Changing the world by spreading the knowledge of innovators.
کتاب رو ۲ نفر استاد دانشگاه نوشتن، و تقریبا مطلقا از تجربه خودشون صحبت نمیکنن. سوالی که داشتن اینه که یه سری شرکتها ویژنری میشن و طی مدت زمان طولانی (چند دهه) همیشه جزو پیشروهای بازارشون هستن، چه خاصیتی باعث میشه یه شرکتی ویژنری بشه؟برای جواب دادن، یه تعداد خوبی شرکت ویژنری رو انتخاب کردن، و فقط شرکتهایی رو انتخاب کردن که براشون شرکت مشابه داشتن: شرکتی که تقریبا با شرکت اصلی همزمان تاسیس شده، خیلی شبیهش بوده و تا یه جایی هم پا به پای شرکت اصلی جلو اومده، ولی بعدش ازش عقب مونده. مثلا برای بررسی س
و البته اینکه فقط شرکت‌هایی رو در نظر گرفتن که قبل از ۱۹۵۰ تاسیس شدن و تا زمان نوشته شدن کتاب (دهه ۹۰ فک کنم) هنوز سر پا موندن و ویژنری هستن، این کار رو کردن که مطمئن بشن قدرت این شرکت به ساختار و تیمشه نه موسسش، نه یه فرد خاص.نتیجه اینه که یه سری نکته/راه‌حل/ویژگی پیدا کردن که شرکت‌های ویژنری دارن‌شون، و مقصودشون اینه که برای اینکه یه شرکت ویژنری بسازید باید این کارها رو بکنید.
jim collins cherry picked some companies that he thinks successfull and compare them to 'failed' rival company in the same industry to find out what characteristics that successful company has that the rival company doesn'tSounds good, but the problem is, he didn't compare the opposite. What those characteristics of successful company which other failed company also has but they still failed.For example, Big Hairy Audicious goal. I'm pretty sure that a lot of company around the world also has but they still failed.
They write and speak extensively in these fields and work as consultants for many successful organizations.The thesis of this book is that visionary enduring companies are not dependent upon one charismatic CEO; rather they share timeless, fundamental principles and patterns that transcend product ideas or great leaders.
Enduring companies preserve the core and stimulate progress at the same time with equal strength.
Visionary companies preserve the core by home-grown management and stimulate progress by trying to do better tomorrow than today.
I have found this principle to be vital as well.I was glad to hear that not all of the visionary companies use BHAG’s extensively (93,94).
Indeed, visionary companies install powerful mechanisms to create /dis/comfort--to obliterate complacency--and thereby stimulate change and improvement /before/ the external world demands it.” “If you are a prospective entrepreneur with the desire to start and build a visionary company but have not yet taken the plunge because you don’t have a “great idea,” we encourage you to lift from your shoulders the burden of the great-idea myth.
Myth 2: Visionary companies require great and charismatic visionary leaders.
Myth 7: Visionary companies are great places to work, for everyone.
Myth 9: Companies should hire outside CEOs to stimulate fundamental change.
That being said, I don't really care for the writing or rhetorical style of this book, and I think the ideas are a bit outdated (maybe they've already been internalized by the global business community?) but I think it's an interesting glimpse into the commonalities and inner working of some very large, famous and mostly still successful companies.
Anyway, I am glad I am reading this book if for no other reason than I get to witness my co-workers likening my company to a 'visionary' one.
i liked that they focused on companies that have made it long term in this book.
it demonstrates that great companies aren't solely built on an idea or market timing; but on great systems, having a vision and mission that is higher than money (for real, not just something you put on a plaque somewhere), and creating a tight, consistent culture...so that it becomes apparent very quickly whether or not someone is a fit.
Financial rewards are important, but doing something that has real purpose is what makes those long days worth it.
And a book definitely worth reading.
Эта книга очень хорошо дополняет книгу "От хорошего к великому" того же автора. Она является её продолжением. В "Построенные навечно" хорошо обобщаются данные, детализируются принципы успеха, наводятся хорошие примеры и приведены отличные выводы. Рекомендую её также как и книгу "От хорошего к великому" - обязательную к прочтению. Данные книги будут очень полезными для всех целеустремлённых людей, руководителей, начинающих и всех уровней предпринимателей не зависимо от их опыта, а также инвесторам, исследователям и экспертам.
Update: I flipped through this a few days ago and realized this book is only slightly better than "Who Moved My Cheese," and other business-related books. I read this years ago, and today it's the only "business book" that has stayed on my shelves here at home after I finished my 30 years in corporate America. There are some good articles about successful companies vs. failed companies, and if I ever start a company, there are some admirable ones here with which to study.
I started to read this book after finishing Good To Great by Jim C Collins and it's really an excellent book that led me to reformulate my own concept about company's core values, purpose. The following chapters Clock Builder, Big Hairy Audacious Goal and Try a lot of stuff are extremely important and it did help me to see the bigger picture of how a company should operate. definitely, it's a must-read the book for any manager, CEO, Entrepreneur who is interested to contribute in building any company/organization that shall last over time.
However I feel there are broad patterns we can see in successful organizations - having core values that remain constant throughout its life, gunning for big hairy audacious goals to keep people inspired, inspiring a cult like loyalty among the employees of the company, grooming leaders from inside, evolutionary growth by trying out lot of things and continuous focus on improvement.
The author also has a theme of Yin and Yan throughout the book of how one has to balance the tugs from opposing forces to keep things rolling.
I liked those myths that were explained and what they were in reality and out of which few that attracted me are: Not that all visionary companies require a great leader to start with.
The core values of visionary companies stayed intact but they still adapt to change in time.
People who want to create a visionary company they need to adapt to changes in their strategies, organization systems, structure, design etc., almost everything.
This gives pleasure for them working for the organization and as such results in profits.
Visionary companies preserve their Core Values and Purposes while at the same time stimulating progress by using different mechanisms- which would be discovered after reading the book.
How well a company lives by its core ideologies is far(more) important than just having a nice sounding and striking vision statement.
I would plan a reread(2 or 3 more times) in a nearby time- I found it difficult to swallow all those interesting findings at once.I would recommend this book for any business minded person who likes to learn about the processes involved in building a visionary company.
In the 21st century, the insights of chapter three, more than profits, can serve as a major talent attraction tool for organizations since they now have to deal with millennials.
Research has shown that millennials prefer working for organizations they think serve a greater purpose for humanity.
I am glad Jim and Jerry exposed the weakness in our thinking that successful companies are built by charismatic leaders with a certain ‘je ne sais quoi’.The two authors deserve a lot of credit for their work.
So far in business there are three highly respected books written about research performed on businesses and what makes them successful.
The second would be Built to Last and, finally, Good to Great.Built to last compares companies within the same industry to see what makes one “visionary” and the other not so visionary.
It also makes some observations about what the more successful, in terms of being “Visionary,” companies have in common with each other.Any aspiring CEO should be familiar with this study and this book.
It also gives one a foundation from which a company which is built to last can be built.
A cookie cutter approach simply doesn't work.
Instead, companies need to take a really deep look at their unique drives and purpose and use those drives and purpose to create an infrastructure of greatness that will last well beyond any given CEO or product.It's in this comment -- the belief that each company's problems and solutions are unique and require a certain degree of artistry to manage -- that sets this book well above other business books that try to shoe horn every business into their paradigm for success.
And it's for that reason, and it's methodology and research, that I give this book 4 stars.
Oddly enough, though this was the first of the big Jim Collins books, it was the last one I read.
This book preceded Collins' smash hit "Good to Great", but in fact I would read all three of them together (the most recent is "How the Mighty Fall"), as together they tell a story.
They also share a methodology that makes a great deal of sense: match each "success" company with another very similar, but not as successful company.
That way you can pick out the distinguishing factors that separate the great from the merely good.
Built to Last is a very well researched and a convincing book that has definitely opened my mind to new ideas and thoughts about companies.
The authors have evidently shown visionary and comparison companies to show how the same idea may not still work if you don't have certain characteristics.
The best and maybe the most scariest part is that there is no right or no wrong characteristic - It is about your passion, your vision, your core values, your purpose and your BHAG's.
It is not a once-read and kept away book.
It must be kept in every business person's bookshelf.
One of the most valuable books I've read on how to build a company that will change the world. The book is loaded with research, hard evidence to support the claims and with great stories. Collins really nailed it with this one, the content debunks a lot of the myths established by business schools, general public and media. I strongly urge you to read this book, even if you aren't planning to start a company. It will teach you many great lessons which will help you to achieve more success in life.
Corporate blah blah blah blah.I struggled to get through it, but it wasn't the most painful business book ever. I just can't stand the earnestness. Business books that read like they just found the map to the holy grail irk me. Cop to having a great deal of luck and admit your outlook may be totally wrong, but it's the best you could schlep together with what you know, and I'll get on board. If you fully buy into your own BS, I'm not going to enjoy your work.
The research behind this book identifies a few key characteristics that "visionary" organizations have. Interestingly, the definition of "visionary" is incredibly robust, and the author's team went to great lengths to identify those things that made these companies great. I strongly recommend this book for anybody working in organizational development, or anyone that wants to make their organization better.
Great book, detailing the successes of visionary companies and what differentiates them from their competitors. Inspiring, makes me want to implement as many of the suggestions as I can in my own company. I want to read "The Halo Effect", a book a different author that details possible errors in the research done by Collins on this book - balanced viewpoints are important.
Pretty good but dated, and some of the words of wisdom failed in some of the cases. Enjoyed the discussion of the visionary plan of Freddie Mac to change the mortgage industry to benefit more people starting in 1992. The noted that these changes might out live the secondary mortgage industry... probably happened not the way they planned.
Great lessons based on detailed research, inspiring and challenging, enormous insights into how people created companies that have lasted decades and survived changes of CEOs, radical market and economic shifts, and how you can replicate that success.
The book offers me nothing new. However, it recalls my deeply-interred belief. It's awakening.
Interesting Ideas were conveyed in the book...but i feel that all these ideas cant be applied in the Indian business scenario.
Awesome Read.
El mejor libro que he leido en mi vida, inspirador, emocionante, todo quel que este conatrullendo una empresa o quiera construir una debe leerlo.
