https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192892.Unnatural_Death
Everybody was expecting the event except for the doctor who was ready to stake his professional reputation that the death came a little early and way too unexpected.
I rated the previous book with 2 stars and was about to give up on the series - sufficient to say I only remember a couple of scenes from book #2 and completely forgotten the overall plot.
This time the "who" part was obvious fairly early, which left two secondary traditional questions of mystery: "why" and "how".
I was hoping for his servant Bunter to become more interesting, but the guy had practically no screen time.
Although the clothing hasn't been traced yet and so the Rev. Dawson's name hasn't come in, he correctly deduces that Miss Whittaker is trying to suggest that one of the men who are supposed to have kidnapped her and killed Miss Findlater is black, and that one of the female victims marked the magazine cover in hopes of helping a rescuer.Because he doesn't want Miss Whittaker to know that he's on her trail, Wimsey allows the police and newspaper reporters to be deceived by the false evidence.
Thus, he has hired this “spinster” (not by choice, as she says) named Miss Alexandra Katherine Climpson as his “Enquiry Agent” – or Private Investigator, as we say on this side of the Pond.There is also a very cloak and dagger conversation with a doctor who won’t even give his name, yet he wants to find out if anything can be done about a medical case of his - one that he feels was somehow speeded along in her departure from this world.
Miss Climpson’s letters to Lord Peter as she reports in with her Capitals, underlines and MANY exclamation marks (!!!) makes me want to swear off using those ever again.
I still enjoyed it, but there were places where the story became quite bogged down and Sayers had characters voicing their disapproval of both blacks & Roman Catholics.
My usual disclaimer; I still prefer to read uncensored.I think Sayers was probably struggling a bit with censorship herself - it was obvious that two of the characters were (view spoiler)[ lesbian but it was never directly stated.
(hide spoiler)]I guessed the main twist well before the end, but this was still a satisfying read & I hope to tackle another Sayers before the end of the year.
When she died suddenly, without leaving a will, the doctor insisted on an autopsy, leading to bad feeling with both the niece, Miss Whittaker, and the local community.
Is Lord Peter Wimsey himself going to become a victim?This is a real puzzle of a mystery, with endless clues and suspects and sometimes you do feel a little bogged down in information.
However, the real fun and sense of righting a wrong does shine through and you happily embark on the journey with Lord Peter, Parker, Miss Climpson and, of course, Bunter.
What is the motive?I've read about five of Sayer's Wimsey books so far and this is the least engaging.
I think it's because there's very little action and a whole lot of talking, specifically between Wimsey and his friend Inspector Parker.
Yes, of course there is SOME action somewhere within the book: a bit of dash at the end; a touch of insinuated violence.
However, Unnatural Death contains all the humor and old world panache (as well as old world borderline racism) one comes to expect from these books, and any fan of the Wimsey stories will enjoy this one regardless of its minor failings.
Mildly amusing, mid 1920s Sherlock Holmes wanna-be Lord Peter Wimsey & his Scotland Yard side-kick Parker try to solve a murder that only Wimsey believes in at first.
Mrs. Climpson, one of too many women with nothing to do, was elegantly put to work ferreting out secrets & Bunter was the perfect man-servant.
Parker was a bit of cardboard straight man, though.
It took a long time for the motive to come to light & relied mostly on Wimsey's witty repartee as he makes the long search to put the pieces together.
I don't think I'll listen to another, at least no time soon.
the further adventures of the inimitable mervyn bunter, prince of manservants, master of the perfectly correct response and the carefully disguised critique, expert at pretty much everything. all that plus he had to deal with dressing annoying lord peter wimsey every morning. surely the man must have been a virgo.
For years I've been convinced that I much prefer the Lord Peter Wimsey books after Harriet Vane makes an appearance, but this book changed my mind.
I always picture Lord Peter as an empty-headed fop in pre-Harriet days but I've had to revise my opinion as he came across as sensitive and conscientious rather than just a rich man of leisure with too much time on his handsThe character of Miss Climpson shines throughout the book for me and her situation made me think about the limited possibilities open to spinsters in the 1920s.
Miss Climpson certainly rises to the challenge (this last to be said in capital letters with many exclamation marks).
This is by far my favourite Sayer so far.The Whittaker case begins almost imperceptibly, with the overhearing of a casual remark in a Soho restaurant where Lord Peter Wimsey and Charles Parker are dining.
But something tells Wimsey that this was, indeed, an unnatural death, and he makes a bet with Parker that he can prove it.
Lord Peter's family are not in evidence, but his friend Charles Parker, and the loyal manservant Bunter are both there, and Wimsey is aided by the intelligence of Miss Climpson whom he sends out to the Hampshire village to be his ear to the ground.A lovely, lovely read.
I decided to begin my rereadings of the Lord Peter books with book 3.
I have started over on volumes 1 and 2 so many times that I thought it would be better to skip them and get right to it.
This is a delightful episode in the series with the appearance of Miss Climpson.
It is also quite a series of contrasts between the various female spinster characters in the book.
I almost finished the book today during my three hour stint at the DMV, keeping up my record of reading appropriate literature while waiting, waiting, waiting at the DMV.
Lord Peter Wimsey, a 37-year-old self-taught private sleuth, is at it again with his friend and crime-solving partner Charles Parker of Scotland Yard. Wimsey, who sometimes refers to himself as Sherlock Holmes, has resolved to take a case that for much of the book doesn't seem to be much of a case at all except in Wimsey's mind.Reading Unnatural Death is "jolly good fun" for mystery lovers. Wimsey is sometimes cocky and so full of himself I found myself rolling my eyes a time or two -- but in the end, he proves his mettle.
A re-read.Well I've already failed in my attempt to re-read the Wimsey books in order, because I always thought Clouds of Witness came AFTER Unnatural Death.
I love the way Sayers makes her detective think about the internal logic of detective novels.Third, Sayers gets to tackle the topic of LESBIANS without actually being able to clarify that point to the reader, since the book was written in the 1920s and homosexuality could only be hinted at in the broadest manner.
1.5The only reason why I won't stop reading this series is I really like Lord Peter Wimsey.
I will just pretend I never read this book.There are so many problems in this book that I am at a loss where to start.
One of the biggest problems I had with this case and what ruined this so-called mystery for me is that the author so obviously tried to keep Parker and Wimsey away from a person of interest.
And I do like Wimsey and Parker so there's that.I hope this will be the only weak story in the series.
Starting the New Year with a Sayers review?
Yes, please.So Unnatural Death is maybe not the best in terms of the convoluted plot, the number of characters, etc, because it’s not one of the most personal stories for Lord Peter.
And there’s a lot of Miss Climpson, too; not as much as one of the later books, but enough to show that she’s a really great character — her letters with their underlinings and italicising are hilarious.The murder method is pretty good for this one, though, really: I wouldn’t guess it if I wasn’t familiar with an NCIS episode where there are a couple of killings done the same way, and yet it’s simple and obvious once you know what it is.So not my favourite, but it does work and come together beautifully.
Found the audio copy of this at the library waiting for me to go to North Carolina. Enjoyable. Made the miles fly by. While this was my 6th reading of this book, I apparently forgot the conclusion or the killer.I was driving along trying to figure it out when the light bulb went off.
The case prime premise is essentially core to being a standard central original.
Unlike some Sayers of Lord Wimsey, this one is not at all overlong.
Top rung entertainment and all kinds of serendipity knowledge displayed!Lastly, all of these books (my copies of various date publications but nearly all were the hardcovers)- have delightful letters or some business correspondence or some other 2 page essential prize gem at the beginning or the ending.
The language and standards names used for other humans beyond the UK's high classes for other groups or visual conditions is quadruple XXXX.
Do not judge these present day (language bombs now) of Sayers or Lord Wimsey's time by those of your own time.
This was the best in the series so far for me. The introduction of Ms Climpson was a particular highlight and I hope she continues to help out Wimsey as we progress through the series.I also liked that this one was a little less slap stick and a little more mystery. The development of the relationship between Wimsey and Parker is also progressing well.
(view spoiler)[Mary Whitaker led them a merry chase... (hide spoiler)]Was hankering for a cozy mystery that I'v not read before, thought of trying this book. Can't say am much impressed. It was just an okay read with a mildly annoying protagonist. The mystery wasn't much about who-had-done-it but how-it-was-done. Read this author for the first time, will try a few more of her stories before I pass judgement.Just about almost-there-2.5-stars from me.
Another delightful re-read of another Peter Wimsey mystery.
Wimsey, with his curiosity stirred, started to investigate, even though the doctor specifically asked him not to.
The bodies pile up across England, while Wimsey relentlessly pursues his craving for justice and his irresistible need to solve puzzles.I can’t talk much about the hero here.
One novel only shows a glimpse of him, a single facet of the diamond, so to speak, but I must admit that the more I read about Peter Wimsey the more I like the guy.
Here he is talking to his friend, a police officer Parker, Wimsey’s sidekick in all his investigations: 
It's a mark of how good a writer Sayers is that this is enough to keep the reader interested to the end of the book: as is its portrayal of 1920s England, a place that now seems almost impossibly far away although when I was young, in the 1970s, it seemed still in the recent past.
Recommended for readers of detective fiction or anyone interested in a dispassionate portrayal of the mores and social hierarchies of a now long past England.
Miss Climpson’s letters are narrated by the character, which seems fun at first (and gives you a wealth of information on the character’s attitudes, etc), but knowing the story as well as I do, I found it annoying over time.The story itself is a pretty good mystery, satisfyingly tangled and yet with one of those surprisingly simple solutions.
The original crime is simple and elegant: as Wimsey says, it’s everything the criminal does to hide the crime that actually ends up revealing them.There’s an interesting review here on the race issues in this book.
I’m not sure to what extent I agree with it, without knowing more about race issues in Britain in the period, but it is an interesting point to make.Originally posted here.
A very successful James's pick. I hate to say it, being a life long Christie fan, but I actually think Sayers is BETTER. The book is full of great characters and a nice gritty storyline, this was a true 5*. And the good thing is, there are loads more to read!
I'm still rationing my reading of Sayers' Lord Peter series but it's hard.
Lord Peter sends one of his best informer Climpson, an old maid finding a new way to make a difference.
Sayers' description of women's conditions in this book is quite varied and balanced.
Then we have the "couples": Miss Clara Whittaker and Mis Agatha Dawson.
The other couple : Mary Whittaker and Verna Findlater is more of a dysfunctional relationship, the infatuation of a young woman with someone very strong willed and cunning.
As Clara and Agatha relationship was described as strong and healthy, Mary and Verna's relationship is shown as nefarious and damaging.
And yet a woman who, despite her clear intentions of making said great-niece her heir, had a phobic fear of wills, and refused to make one, no matter what new laws might be in the offing.The shadow of Agatha Dawson and Clara Whitaker shades the whole story, especially when the redoubtable Miss Climpson (introduced in this book for the first time) arrives in their hometown to investigate.
But characters like Miss Climpson and Clara and Agatha Dawson make it clear that the problems are not new ones.
Miss Climpson doesn't recognize this, but others should.The argument that Sayers was 'a product of her time' is, in a way, disingenuous.
Not sure I’ve read any Sayers before. I do like a classic British mystery. I found the protagonist grating, and the overall tone a bit soap opera-ish, but I’ll likely try more in the series.
Ian Carmichael is a great narrator for this book. While I remembered the basic plot, there were details I had forgotten so even knowing the solution it was a fun read (listen).
This book was a throughly enjoyable entry in the Lord Peter Wimsey series.
Lord Peter shouldn't have been taken in.It was also interesting to see that Dorothy Sayers had a character like Miss Marple before the first Miss Marple book was published - to be fair though, Miss Marple was inspired on Caroline Sheppard, a character from a book Dame Christie published in 1926, a year before this.
But as I mentioned in previous reviews, I don't read this series for the mysteries but because Lord Peter is so funny.
I don't think all these things would strike me as funny reading them on my own.
I loved all the Lord Peter Wimsey books.
Sayers classic mystery series featuring Lord Peter Wimsey.
However, even after telling Peter and his friend, Inspector Parker or Scotland Yard, his story, the doctor refuses to divulge either his name or his patient's.
While Peter is central to all of the investigation, we get nice insights from both Inspector Parker and Miss Climpson and both play important roles; as investigators and fact-finders, while Peter is more of an intuitor (did I invent a word??).
The story is light in many parts, as that is Peters nature but the more you delve into the mystery, you get a sense of a very nasty perpetrator.
