https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93273.King_Arthur_and_His_Knights_of_the_Round_Table
He is, nonetheless, one of the major popularisers of ancient myths and legends in English culture — Neil Gaiman recently acknowledged (in his introduction to Norse Mythology) that Lancelyn Green’s books profoundly influenced his early vocation as a writer.King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table was published a few years after World War II, around the same time as Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings, Lewis’ The Chronicles of Narnia and T.
As retellings of Arthurian myth go, this one is pretty straightforward.
If you've read Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur, then you'll recognize King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table as a reduced and simplified form of that classic, rather than a broader compilation of tales from the vast catalogue of Arthurian myths, legends, poems, and tales.
Sadly, King Arthur himself is a background character for most of the text, while his various knights wander the wilds of Britain and have all sorts of fantastical adventures.
As a result, I enjoyed this book much less than I had hoped.
I've had this book for awhile and am not shamed to admit that watching Merlin had pushed me into finally reading it.Before I read it I'd already had some background knowledge on the tales of King Arthur, in which I knew of a lot of the knights and some of the tales.
The tales may be old and written in an old way, but they're still fun to read nonetheless.Roger Lancelyn Green's version of King Arthur was based off of Thomas Malory's  Le Morte d'Arthur, as well as other sources of Arthurian legend, in the hopes that he could string the tales together in a way that more represented a story with a beginning, middle and end.
Plenty of people being smote and slewed. Heads being chopped off seemed to be a popular choice for the demise. Damsels were in distress and damsels sometimes plotted evil. There were good knights and bad knights. And a bit of magic thrown in.The tales in this book still make fun reading.
So it's not the most academic work you could choose to read on Arthurian legend.
(Galahad's story is a bit truncated, though, according to what Wikipedia says about the Vulgate Cycle/etc.
I'm not sure if I care, though, because the way Green told it, it was really sad.
And what's Arthurian legend if not a thousand people retelling the same story in different ways?)Anyway, I liked it.
I wish it was more likely that I could find an edition of the Vulgate Cycle somewhere.
Suffice it to say I have a lot to read.
We are in front of excellent compilation of the adventures of the Knight Round Table. Roger Lancelyn Green tests that he is worth to be a member of the Inklings he is somebody that we must rediscover him. To know the arthurian cycle is necessary to read it.................................................................................................................................................................................Nosotros nos encontramos ante una excelente compilación de las aventuras de los Caballeros de la Tabla Redonda. Roger Lancelyn Green demuestra, que es digno de ser digno de los Inklings, y a alguien, que merece ser redescubierto. Para conocer, y comprender el mito Artúrico la lectura de este libro es básica.
Given the number of scattered King Arthur tales, I'm grateful Roger Lancelyn Green reworked the tales into a cohesive story. Children will definitely enjoy this book, but it also gave me the courage to start Le Morte d'Arthur: King Arthur and the Legends of the Round Table. Wish me luck!
Really good story. Just slow and hard to understand in parts.
It was amazing!
¡Con ella me he de casar, o moriré soltero!-No hay duda de que está entre las más bellas -dijo Merlín-.
Y con todo, Ginebra es la más hermosa de las doncellas de la tierra, y cuando el corazón de un hombre se fija en una mujer así, como el vuestro se ha fijado en ella, no se le puede hacer desistir.Y ya está.
Lo peor de todo ha sido el final, no porque fuera malo sino por cómo es en sí ya que todas las predicciones que hizo Merlín se cumplen pero había cosas que el muy...
Personal ResponseI liked the book King Arthur because it had a lot of historical stories of a king who reshaped England.
Many of the stories were short with a tragic or anti-climactic ending.PlotThe plot of the book was a series of stories of King Arthur and his Knights that served under him at the round table.
During medieval time it was very common for knights to randomly challenge other knights.RecommendationI would recommend this to both genders, age 13 and up, because of complicated vocabulary and graphic scenes who enjoy old stories or just stories of old legends.
"After wicked King Vortigern had first invited the Saxons to settle in Britain and help him to fight the Picts and Scots, the land was never long at peace."This version of the King Arthur legend is broken down into stories, following each of the Knights on their various journeys. It is easy to read, especially compared to L'Morte d'Arthur or even The Once and Future King. Based mostly on Mallory's work, this version also takes into account other sources and I always find the retellings fascinating.
I have always liked the tales of King Arthur, though this is the first time in book-form. I absolutely loved it! Who wouldn't want an epic story about noble knights, kings, lords and ladies, wizards, dragons, and fearsome duels? The quests and adventures in this book were really interesting and fun, and along the way you learn good principles of justice, forgiveness, sacrifice along with the knights.I loved this book almost as much as I love Roger Lancelyn Green's other legend telling, The Adventures of Robin Hood.
This is a great collection of the Arthurian legends rewritten so younger readers can wet their teeth on these stories. I read this book in the eighth grade and I still have it on my shelf and because of this book I got into Monty Python and the Holy Grail, The Lord of the Rings, and T.H. White's The Once and Future King. Books like this are a valuable resource because they serve as starting points and foundations for the myths that make up so much of our culture.
A good spin on taking older arthur tales together I had never read before. Not bad. =)
Read out loud to my children and we really enjoyed it. It did take a while to make it through, but some of the chapters were really exciting! I'm glad we went for it!
They're like discussion points for a book club and they address whether or not King Arthur was real, other versions of the Arthurian Legends (e.g. Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur, 1485), and explain the weapons knights used.
Like the title suggests, it's not just about King Arthur, but also the adventures of the knights in his court: e.g. Sir Lancelot, Sir Galahad, etc.
I didn't want to read Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur written in 1485; Green's is a simplified retelling of Malory's & others' writings.
Roger Lancelyn Green's novel, King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table, is a very long and pretty good book.
Even if you read it in 1 or 2 days you probably would still only remember a few important things that happened.
It's has Knights, sorcerers, kings, queens, peasants, damsels in distress, and pretty much everything.
If I were to write or even summarize all the important stuff, it would take weeks.(not even exaggerating) over all it was a good book and I give it 4.5-5 stars.
I always like reading classic tales like Alice in Wonderland, and Peter Pan. Now King Arthur and his Noble Knights is no exception. I always had a fascination with the Medieval times ever since I learned it from history class. I always was fascinated with the whole theme and feeling of it. Now King Arthur and his Noble Knights has that feeling of olden times and even has the aged English written into it. Now that may scare some readers since they may worry over not understanding what they are s
I always like reading classic tales like Alice in Wonderland, and Peter Pan. Now King Arthur and his Noble Knights is no exception.
Now King Arthur and his Noble Knights has that feeling of olden times and even has the aged English written into it.
The sword was named Excalibur, and he said whoever pulled it was of Noble Blood, and was granted to be King Of England.
He is crowned King and this then sets off, into other Knightly tales of the other Knights joining the round table, the search for the Holy Grail, and The Wars for the Holy Grail.
I’m personally not about the whole medieval thing. This book was very boring, the parts that should’ve been exciting were written in a way that could put me to sleep. Pretty disappointed.
I have always loved hearing the stories of King Arthur and his knights.
I tried reading "The Once and Future King" but I was in a tough semester at school so I never finished it.
The chapters are broken up into much smaller stories or adventures.
The book did get a little bit monotonous because all the knights wanted to do was greet each other, then pontificate for a while on their superior strength, and then to knock each other off from their horses.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes fantasy or likes hearing stories about knights or adventures.
This was my introduction, at the age of 5, when I was still just reading books on my own, to the stories of King Arthur. It was love at first sight, beginning with the arm in white samite rising out of the lake with Excalibur in hand on the cover of my old Puffin edition. I didn't understand all of the words (Roger Lancelyn Green's writing has a bit of a stylized archaic texture) but was fascinated nonetheless, and added some deliciously exotic-sounding words to my vocabulary. A formative influence on my imagination.
Reading 'King Arthur' was bittersweet. Part of the legend takes place in Cornwall, where my parents visited recently. The ending was sad, and King Arthur himself knew his tale would end in such a way. Why do events in life need to come to an end? Each character had to struggle with his responsibilities as a knight and human temptation. The ideals each knight of the roundtable had to live up to were almost super human.The legend of King Arthur is well worth the read.
It was alright but not good. If you're hoping to start reading Arthurian mythology, I suggest The Acts of King Arthur and His Noble Knights. Steinbeck made the retellings fascinating and addictive, while Green droned on with boring, dull writing and made it difficult to enjoy.
This is by all means a HORRID book! It is an insult to the Tales of Camelot, King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. The writing of the book is terrible; it makes you want to skip parts. It is very hard to enjoy this book. I am currently hiding this book in the farthest, darkest shelf in the house.
Love the stories, however, this was not my favorite telling of them. I did glean a new phrase to use around the house, though-- "That you shall know when you come thither!" (To use in response to "What do you want, Mom?")
The kids expressed an interest in this story after seeing Monty Python - The Search for the Holy Grail. We've been reading this for a couple of nights now, and they seem to be enjoying it. Great! Gotta love when your kids are interested in the classics!
My copy of this book is very battered and dog-eared, demonstrating just how much I read and loved it. A good introduction to King Arthur, and it turned out to be somewhat helpful when I read Le Morte d'Arthur in university. Having this background was rather useful.
It was great. I loved the characters, stories, and chapters. I ate up every story. There is no other book like this one. People who like actio and adventure should read this book.
so boring.
