https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50091.The_Complete_Robot
Only six Robot short stories are left out, and 31 of his coolest and sharpest stories can be found in this collection, organized by Asimov himself to give the best flow possible.The beauty of Asimov's tales is the verity of themes and unique problems he incorporated in his stories.
Runaround is the spectacular story which explicitly introduced the three laws of Robotics, the recurring element which became the cornerstone of Robot stories.
The story features Asimov's recurring characters, Powell and Donovon who are working on Planet Mercury when a Robot starts acting weird.
I know that we can make a very good argument that Asimov has plenty of stories trying to free robots, such as Centennial Man and of course the end of his Robot novels with Olivaw, but for the most part, no one questions it, and no one cares.It's a case of too little notice, in my opinion, but at least some of it is there.And then there are the cultural assumptions, despite the author's naysaying it, that women are inferior...
I can think of 75% other classic novels that are much worse, and they're not even SF.
Asimov ima originalne ideje i svaka prica za sebe se bavi nekim, moje je laicko misljenje, potpuno logicnim i stvarnim problemom sa kojima bi se susretala vestacka inteligencija, roboti, u dodiru sa nasim ljudskim svetom i vrednostima koje gajmo.
Nesto tako delikatno kao sto je robot sposoban da obavlja najistancanije radnje i pokusava da se ponasa kao ljudsko bice zaista zahteva podrobnu analizu u svakom segmentu.
Sve je tako logicno i sa razlogom napisano a opet veze se za fantastiku i na momente deluje da ljudi zaista imaju kapacitet da stignu do zvezda a u isto vreme stvore jedan moralan i vise nego funkcionalan svet za sebe uz veliku pomoc masina, Asimovljevih robota.

(un anno prima scriverà un'altra pietra miliare sui robot: "L'uomo bicentenario")E' molto difficile dare una votazione su una raccolta di racconti, qui ancora di più, perchè l'argomentazione è unica, appunto i robot, e questo potrebbe creare una qualche problematica data dal fatto che ci si potrebbe annoiare.
Infatti alcuni racconti non sono stati il massimo, più che altro quelli ad argomentazione "Susan Calvin", alcuni un po' ripetitivi, ma comunque sempre molto riflessivi sulla storia dei robot (dell'umanità?).La scrittura di Asimov è sempre splendida, affascinante, straordinaria, piena di spunti di riflessione, di una delicatezza rara, di una poeticità unica ed inimitabile.
The lack of computers showed sometimes, but I feel that the robots and general technology most of the time was there to support a plot or conflict inherently human.
And that was what made the stories so good.I feel going through almost forty stories is rather silly so, suffice to say that there are a lot of great stories in the book.
Accommodating to Goodreads rate system, there were a myriad of five, four and three stars stories.
I was ready to give a round four star rating to the collection as a whole.Then I read the last story.
Per i sedicenni degli anni 90 Asimov era senza dubbio un mito: il suo visionario mondo del futuro ancora non era stato intaccato dall' avvento delle tecnologie del ventuinesimo secolo, e legioni di studenti universitari dividevano il loro tempo tra lo studio e le avventure del ciclo dei Robot o della Fondazione.Col tempo ho smesso di leggere fantascienza, ma aver reincontrato la robotica di Asimov quando alla fine gli anni a cui pensava sono giunti, permette di fare il punto.
Here is a run down of the stories.A Boy's Best Friend:-A boy and his dog on the moon but the dog is a robot, what happened when his parents want to give him a real dog and what makes you love something?Sally:-Only cars that have positronic brains are allowed on the highways and when they are retired where do they go?
What happens when a toy is no longer appreciated, how does it feel?Point of View:-A short story about how children, their parents and the Multivac all think differently.
No estoy seguro de si exista un autor que haya superado lo que logró Asimov con sus relatos de robots; me atrevo a decir que estos relatos deben de ser de lo mejor que se haya escrito jamás sobre el tema.El clímax de esta colección es, por supuesto, "El hombre bicentenario", ganadora de los premios Hugo y Nebula.
— Hace cincuenta años, Andrew fue declarado el robot sesquicentenario.
—hizo una pausa y añadió  solemnemente—: Hoy, el Señor Martin es declarado  el hombre bicentenario.Ahora, a seguir con la saga de robots.
Here was a lady who worked with robots for so long that as Asimov puts it " has some steel seep into her blood as well".
By far the most profound of all works in the book was Bi-Centennial man which to put it simply was the tale with soul.
I can't but marvel at the visionary that Asimov is.A remarkable collection of tales...Highly Recommended.One of my favorite lines from the Bi-Centennial Man : "It has been said in this courtroom that only a human being can be free.It seems to me that only someone who wishes for freedom can be free.I wish for freedom "
E se entrassero Powell e Donovan e mi dicessero con perfetta nonchalance di prendere le mie cose che ci aspettavano per collaudare un robot su Plutone, partirei all'istante!Ok, lo so che sto andando alle dimostrazioni per assurdo, ma questo è Asimov: se lo leggi e lo ami, ne fai uno stile di vita.Un'ultima cosa ho da dire, poi giuro che taccio.Qualche annetto fa, potevo avere otto o nove anni, vidi in televisione un film bellissimo, che parlava di un robot che decide di conquistare a sua libertà e diventare umano.
Le mie intuizioni si dimostrarono esatte, e fu così che dopo anni di dura separazione e giorni di dure ricerche, riuscii a trovare e a farmi regalare l'unica antologia di Asimov che possedesse il famigerato racconto, "L'uomo bicentenario", grazie al quale "Tutti i miei robot" entra a pieno titolo tra i miei libri preferiti.
Е сад, да не буде да ја изигравам неког тамо буржује, и ја ћу стопут радије читати чак и слабију научну фантастику (о хорору да не говорим) него Пруста или Толстоја, али дођавола ја сам чоек сељак, а он је писац, па ваљда треба да читаш и оно што ти се не свиђа ако хоћеш да унаприједиш стил.
Иако Асимов није фан прича о злим роботима који угрожавају човјечанство, човјек је мудро закључио да кад би се сви роботи држали тих закона, ту се баш не би много тога дешавало.
I've always liked Asimov's work -- one of my favourites has always been the expanded version of one of the short stories in this volume, The Positronic Man -- and so this was a nice familiar read for me.
I've read some of the stories, while some were less familiar, but it is a bit like comfort eating: with Asimov, I know exactly what I'm getting.
It'd be a bit much to start here with Asimov, I think, and read all the short stories start to finish.
(I, Robot, is the first collection of short stories.
Robot Dreams only has one new story in it.
The Complete Robot is reported to be truly complete.)Ok, the edition I read has 31 stories.
Wonderful presentation of stories that I still enjoy after all these years, after reading them when young, finding some anthologized elsewhere, rereading, etc.
Still thought-provoking, and entertaining, and sometimes downright moving.
I really enjoyed being able to read all the Susan Calvin stories and that one is a good 'snap' to let the dear lady finally retire.If your spec.
book club ever wants to read a collection of short stories, you-all should choose this.
This includes I, Robot as well as a bunch of other robot stories.
Does it add much to the experience of reading I, Robot?
It's a bit jumpier in flow since it's a heavy collection, but there are some gems included here that really stood out: "The Tercentenary Incident", "Victory Unintentional", and "The Bicentennial Man".
Aside from that last story, it doesn't add a whole lot to the robot experience, but it does contain some fun stuff.
Also included is "Mirror Image," a story about R.
It no longer had the "Mind and Iron" binding narrative that made I, Robot flow smoothly from story to story.
And then there's the eternal discussion about jobs: Will and do robots take away workers'/employees' jobs?With all those stories, Asimov offered a broad view on how robots are implemented in our lives, how they can be implemented and how they can become even human-like.
If you haven't read any Asimov yet (or none of his robot stories), this is a fine book to start with, since it contains all of the robot stories, more than in the previous compilations.


Some Nonhuman Robots A Boys best friend - 3.5Sally - 2.5 Someday - 3.5 Some Immobile Robots Point of view - 2.5Think! - 3True Love - 4 Some Metallic Robots Victory Unintentional - 3.5Stranger In Paradise - 2.5Light Verse - 3.5Segregationist - 5Robbie - 3 * Some Humanoid Robots Let's Get Together - 3Mirror Image - 3The Tercentenary Incident - 4 Powell and Donovan First Law - 2Runaround - 2.5 *Reason - 4 *Catch That Rabbit! - 3 * Susan Calvin Liar! -  4 *Satisfaction Guaranteed - 4Lenny - 4.5Gall
Thou Art Mindful Of Him - 4The Bicentennial Man - 3.5* Collected in I Robot This has been sat on my shelf for a while.
There's no refuting Asimov's ideas and what he brought to the genre, but I have often found him to be a pretty poor storyteller, particularly when it comes to endings; and this struck mostly true for the first half of the collection, making it a real trial to wade through.
Not just because I found her a great character, but because it was at that point that the book became much more than just a collection of short stories.
Non so se è stato un errore aver preferito questa indigestione di robot rispetto a una più ordinata lettura dei diversi libri che compongono il ciclo, ma l'effetto è esattamente quello che mi aspettavo: il quadro più ampio possibile di cosa sono e significano i robot per Asimov.Molto azzeccata la classificazione dei racconti, divisi per tipologia e natura dei robot, dai "robot-frankestein" ai "robottoni metallici" fino all'evoluzione dei robot dal cervello positronico che mettono in discussione i confini dell'umano e del disumano.
Most, but not all, of Asimov's robot and robot-like stories are included here, including all of the stories from I, Robot.
Even having already read I, Robot, Robot Dreams, and Robot Visions, I still found plenty of stories that were new to me.
Exciting, for me, and it made reading the book more than worthwhile.
I loved it, but I would really only recommend it to readers who are completely addicted to Asimov's robots, enough so that they want to read everything.
But if you have read and loved the robot books, this is a natural next step.
But the into to Prelude includes Asimov's list of the order in which he feels his 14 robot, Empire and Foundation books should be read.
I've only read the stories in I, Robot (recently) and the original Foundation Trilogy (many times but not recently at all) before, so this should be fun, familiar enough to slip into the mindset easily but still lots of new ideas to discover.
"You just can't differentiate between a robot and the very best of humans." A classic Asimov robot story, read this if you only read one.The Evitable Conflict (1950) - Calvin.
Asimov's stories lead up to the three laws of robotics, each story questioning human logic, morality, regarding technology. All the stories are compiled by Asimov himself which lead to a good reading flow. Each story takes time to digest, would encourage readers to debate and reflect as user and/or creator of technology.
Tutti i miei robot è un'antologia di racconti di fantascienza di Isaac Asimov, del 1982.
L'opera summa dei suoi scritti con il soggetto "Robot" e ricordiamo che Mr Asimov, è il padre dei robot, così come delle famosissime tre leggi:1.
La maggior parte di questi racconti sono precedentemente contenuti in "Io, robot", in "Il secondo libro dei robot" e nella "Antologia del bicentenario".
Questi racconti, per chi vuole affrontare la lettura in ordine cronologico, dei libri di quello che io considero il padre della fantascienza, sono molto propedeutici per capire lo sviluppo della storia dell'Universo della fondazione.
I read a lot of Asimov's robot short stories in my early teens, but never the novels and neither the Foundation books.
Having discovered that the robot books are a prelude to Foundation I was intrigued to revisit.I have to say that as stories they're a mixed bag.
The robot stories were my first Asimov.
Yes, The world could benefit from altruïstic AI, even with a measure of omnipotent Multimac.
Yes, ithin the next decade, a popular social science book entitled "the Frankenstein Complex" should appear on the shelves, once sex dolls reach android perfection.In my nostalgic opinion, they are one of the best introductions to his work.
The Three Laws of Robotics are, together with the epic psychohistory of the Foundation, his most important literary legacy.
It also inspired me to start using our home's first PC to write short SF stories far outside the Star Trek/Star Wars mold.
Большинство рассказов весьма примитивны и следуют одной теме: мы придумали клёвые три закона, но несмотря на них и иногда благодаря им роботы всё равно какой-то хренью страдают. Но есть очень классные, серьёзные, берущие за душу рассказы, немного отходящие от этой линии.
First published in 1982 and Asimov having written other robots stories after that, 'The Complete Robot' is, well, not so complete after all!
'Robot Dream'), a disappointing fact I for one wish the publisher would have addressed by now!
Indeed it will please both those curious enough to have a glimpse at Asimov's work (SF master who came up with the fictional Three Laws of Robotics -a term he also coined) and, all those who are already fans as I am (yesssss!
The fact they are ordered by categories depending mostly on the nature of the robots depicted ('immobile', 'metallic', 'humanoid' etc.) even add to make the whole a smooth read.Entertaining and intelligent, what more to ask?
Like all short story collections, there are some hit and misses in here.
The misses were what you would expect.
Some of the stories are a little repetitive, and some lack any real depth.
And like you would expect from a collection of stories from the mid-twentieth century, the female characters were sometimes a bit shit.
However, none of the stories were boring or a slog to get through.
And even within the limitations of short stories, and already being familiar with the Robin Williams film, The Bicentennial Man was a gut punch ending to a fantastic collection.
En general esta bien, pero en particular las historias de Susan Calvin y los climax me han encantado
