https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163921.Full_Tilt
There are very few occasions where my enjoyment of a book will depend on liking the protagonist of the story (or, in the case of nonfiction, the way the author portrays him- or herself).
She relies on her letters and diary entries, leaving them standing on their own, hardly ever structuring them into a narrative, because"the temptation to make myself sound more learned than I am, by gleaning facts and figures from an encyclopaedia and inserting them in appropriate places, has been resisted."This will be a real problem for some readers, and it certainly was for me, because it means that we only ever see whatever Dervla Murphy decided was noteworthy enough to write down that day.
If I'm going to endure reading through a book where I'm told everything she eats, I would at the very least like to have the amazing things she's seen described...as those are the actual details that I'd want to hear about.
In fact, she seemed more sympathetic with the starving animals than she did with the starving people half of the time, and when she gives her food to a starving man she actually says she wishes she hadn't given it to him because then she didn't have food.
Plus she finds the time to get her experiences down on paper under various lighting conditions and to throw in some meditations on cultural differences while she's at it (she is not always charitable- doesn't think much of Sikhs- and sometimes she seems to idealize, but this just adds to the feeling that I as a reader am getting the honest uncensored truth about her impressions).
This book left me with mixed feelings.
It surely gave a good picture of the 1960s in the middle east, Afghanistan and Pakistan and her non-judgemental attitude (which sometimes is a bit too patronizing) made the reading enjoyable.The low points are: Near empty description about her journey in Europe and India (the Indian part of journey was very short, though), the many open ends left open and lack of description of the beauty she enjoyed (to her credit, she did emphasize that this is near verbatim diary entries; though not explicit in the title and in descriptions).
I guess, I'm somewhere in the middle.As far deciding on Dervla's writing, I need to look at her other books to comment.
Autor kirjutas meie-vormis, pannes mind alguses mõtlema, kes on ta salapärane reisikaaslane, kuni sain aru, et see on ju ustav jalgratas Roz!Üldse oli tegu väga õpetliku lugemisega.
Kõige sügavamalt jäin juurdlema selle üle, kuidas ikkagi oleks kõige õigem viis maha jäänud riike aidata.
USA ja NSVL tegid küll palju Afganistani järele aitamiseks, aga riik lõpetas ikkagi Talibani võimu all.
Autor pidevalt rääkis, kuidas ta tegi sellest või teisest asjast pilti, hiljem küll kurtes, et ükski välja ei tulnud.
Asupaikade järgi oli jutt õnneks väga detailne ning sai ka juures olevat kaarti näpuga järgitud.
I always find her books entertaining.An example of her determination (around pages 89-91 in this edition) - in northern Afghanistan, having sustained three broken ribs (from being his accidentally by a rifle butt in a fight on a bus!), she is bitten on the toe by a scorpion, for which she is dosed up on a serum treatment, only to be bitten on the neck by a hornet the following day.
A camel saddle is a preposterous thing, like a wooden pouffe balanced on the hump; doubtless there are ways of not falling off, but my Pushto was unequal to following the owner's instructions."
I actually read a 1965 edition of this book, so I don't know if it has been edited in the intervening years or just reprinted.
It glosses over the European journey (despite beginning in the dead of winter) and focuses on her time in Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan.
There's a fair amount of "plucky European adventurer" in the book.
One thing that really struck me was the way language has changed in the 45-odd years since this book was written.
While the author's great admiration and respect for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan shines through, the words used reflect the slightly patronizing tone we are used to seeing in travelogs from that time.
This is an incredible book - a wonderful description of cycling from Ireland to India, but specifically through Afghanistan and Pakistan.
anti-west, anti-globalisation and also anti-modernisation) are very different from those in her most recent book, A Month by the Sea, in which, in Gaza, Dervla is very much opposed to women having to cover their hair, arranged marriages, lack of female education etc etc.
She is an incredible woman, an inspiring woman, and I really, really enjoyed this book (especially as someone who loves cycling!)

What an amazing journey. I kept having to remind myself that this was 1963 and not the age of internet, GPS and Google maps. This was a young girl from Ireland on a bike on her own. She must have made a lot of preparations as she did meet some influential people. She certainly got into a few scrapes which luckily she was able to get out of.With all that I was not completely engaged with the book. It was not your typical travelogue which is not such a bad thing but still felt a little lightweight on description.
Dervla's adventure and spirit are inspiring. I really admired her grit and they way she viewed the world around her. The journey is incredible but the book does suffer from a poor introduction (before she started writing her diary) and no conclusion of sorts. I get the honest as-it-happened style she was going for but feel the story could have been made more full with a little expansion at these two points. Dervla is great though, so I won't hold it against her.
The grit of the author is incredible. An amazing feat of travel across borders by a woman who seems incapable of fear. Even when faced with wolves and near starvation. However, the book ended rather abruptly and it still reads like a diary that needs a bit of editing.
Samas, ma kardan, et kuna tema tegi oma reisi 1963.aastal ja sellest ajast on aega rohkelt mööda läinud, siis samasugune marsruut üksikule naisele ei ole vast enam ohutu.
Tema kogemused olid muidugi pigem ülivõrdes (eriti Afganistan ja Pakistan) aga konfliktid, mis on antud piirkondasid lõhestanud, on tõenäoliselt need suurepärased lahked inimesed, keda Dervla oma rännakul kohtas, veelgi kaugemale maanurkadesse pagendanud.Muidu oli kerge unustada, et ta rattamatk (käikudeta ratas, muide) oli enam kui 50 aastat tagasi, aga kui ma lugesin seda, kuidas ta käis Afganistanis vaatamas liivakalju sisse raiutud Buddha kuju, mis Talibani poolt 2001.
I just finished this book, and am really torn about it.On the one hand, Murphy is clearly to be admired for her take-no-prisoners approach to bike touring.
She does an excellent job of describing the scenery and environment she passes through using simple but evocative imagery.On the other hand, I find many of her attitudes to be annoying, if not downright loathsome.
She has some sort of "noble savage" fetish where she constantly complains of how western society is ruining the countries she's passing through by their insistence on building hospitals, roads, railways, and so on.
She clearly pulls no punches in describing her thoughts and feelings.
There is a raw honesty to the journal - and it was truly fascinating to be transported into an Afghanistan before the Soviet Invasion (an ancient land balanced between tradition and modernism, Soviet and American ambition) or Pakistan in the 60s when the partition from India is still strong in people's memories and most women accept purdah as normal even when educated in the West.
She sees much to admire in the countries she passes through particularly in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and is not convinced of the advantages of modern 'improvement's, though she does acknowledge the problems of extreme poverty or deprivation and that the local women lack the freedom, choice and education that she enjoys (and which enables her to undertake her epic journey).
Diary of an amazing road trip in 1963 to countries that are constantly in the forefront of today's news and this book will make you think differently about them. Insightful. The descriptions of her travels through the valleys and mountain passes make you feel like you are right there with her. I like the fact that she immerses herself in the cultures, doesn't want to be a tourist.
& 1 incident that forces me to believe that she should have her facts cleared before passing a judgement is---------------" on purely religious basis, Kashmir should be a part of Pakistan."Firstly, 90% of common man in India & Pakistan DONT want this partition thing.
Kashmir- you need to be there talk to the people on streets there to believe that if given an option they want to be left alone.(no India no Pakistan){Who better than Dervla Murphy can do this}.
Above mentioned is my personal opinion and not intended to hurt ANYONE.I SIMPLY EJOYED THIS BOOK> I WISH I COULD VISIT THOSE REMOTE CORNERS OF PAKISTAN/AFGANISTAN>>>>>>>>I AM AN INDIAN>
I read this book while cycle touring and it did the opposite of inspire me, it humbled me.
She writes with a dry Irish wit and talent for understatement- a description of surviving an attempted rape and having nomads erect a tent over her while she napped are equally matter of fact.
Even if a reader were tough enough to follow her path today they couldn't- the world she encountered no longer exists.
The only reason I can't give this book 5 stars is that it was written diary style apparently without the intentions of publication, so it reads a little flat compared to modern travel writing.
I was expecting to like this book because I really enjoyed the one she wrote about her travels through Madagascar.
That trip happened many years after this first one (Full Tilt), so she must have improved her storytelling style in the meantime.The trip this book centers on was undoubtedly full of good material for an interesting narrative, but the book is presented in diary form.
After a while, the details of what time she went to bed and woke up, what distance she rode each day, etc.
Her kit consists of a pair of nylon pants (attractive, I'm sure), an extra shirt, and a few spare tires for her bike -- but in listing the stuff she carries she never includes the packs of American cigarettes that she bestows as gifts AND smokes herself.
Biking uphill in the Hindu Kush in 104 shadeless degrees, carrying your bike over miles of melting glacier...
and stopping for a smoke?
Good thing she has a pistol in her pocket.
I think the nylon pants would nix the whole thing for me.
How appropriate to read a book on bike touring while on a bike tour, even if it did make me feel like I wasn't quite measuring up to the author's standards - what with her 5am starts, 80 - 100 mile days, riding through deep sand, walking 20 miles sometimes, carrying her bike over glaciers, fending off wild dogs with a pistol, etc.
I think if you read it keeping in mind it was written in the 1960's and not take her opinions too seriously you'll enjoy it a lot more.
In the intro the author's stated that she hasn't modified her diary entries to try to make it "fit in" with modern times.
This woman has impressed me for decades, and now that she is into her 80s I find that I am still in awe of what she does.
Ms. Murphy was the guest speaker at our local bookshop, The Crannog, and her sense of humility, integrity and honesty is quite something.
Though her books are sorted on the Travel section, her commitment to values and understanding of human nature are more than mere logs of her journeys.
Much of her personal life was lived in complete independence from the prevailing nonsense of the Catholic church of her youth.
She simply gets on with things!
Nagu pealkirigi ütleb, on tegemist rattaseiklusega Iirimaalt Indiasse.
Tegemist päevikuvormis peetud memuaaridega.
Üldjoontes oli raamatut täitsa huvitav lugeda ja eriti meeldis see, kuidas autor nautis reisil kohatud inimeste vahetut olemust ja samuti tõi välja ka need kohad, kus lääne maailma mõju oli inimestele juba mõju avaldanud.Tohutult häiris, kui ühe päevakande osas oli vastuolusid.
Mõned päevad oli tõesti väga segaselt kajastatud ja tekkis küsimus, et kuidas on võimalik ühe päeva jooksul nii palju teha ja olla :DÜks tsitaat ka, mis iseloomustas Afganistani elu:Eilne on möödas, tänast tuleb sekeldusteta nautida, ja mis homsesse puutub - noh, tulevikku plaanida on patune, sest see on Allahi rida, kuhu pole inimeste asi oma nina toppida.
One of the best travel adventure books I have ever read.
This woman rides her bicycle from Ireland to India back in 1965.
The book has very little to do with bicycles, Ireland or India.
This true story is about this young womans travel adventures in Pakistan and Afghnistan in a time when a woman travelling alone would be most unusual in any country.
It also reads like a detailed diary of all the unique families and communities who provided lodging/hospitality in some of the most extreme cultural and politacal climates.
I would love to some day meet this courageous woman.
Fascinating - nothing like a totally honest and accurate account of a real life adventure. More so, because of the guts and determination portrayed in such an humble manner of what would challenge even the most heroic of men, albeit in a woman incredible, if perhaps more readily excused. An keen eye for all aspects of physical and human nature added the descriptive genius.Me being more or less of the times recounted, I found the perceptions of culture and the geopolitical situations all the more profound given developments over the last 50 years.
This is the 2nd Dervla Murphy book I've read and somehow I manage to find her extremely annoying whilst really enjoying the adventures she has and the observations she makes. Her constant disapproval of "Western" society gets tiresome and her disposition to believe in "the noble savage" gets old quickly. All that said what she experienced and saw is amazing and Central Asia has a certain fascination for me anyway. Was very glad to borrow this from my local library.
This book was so bad I couldn't finish it. I used to suffer through anything I was reading but in my old age I've begun just dropping something that stops entertaining me and it's really liberating. I kept reading that it got better in the second half but it wasn't really worth getting there to me so I put it aside and I'm glad I did.
Dervla, I loved the candid language you employed in your diary. However, mentioning time and again how smelly the natives you came across were took away a lot from the book.Fair play to you for fulfilling one of your childhood dreams and doing such amazing trip though!
Loved it, brilliant book, everyone must read it ;) Bizarre ending but that's ok. Gutsiest woman, an example to us soft urban types (speaking for myself). Dying to read her other books.
A truly amazing story, courage, determination and perhaps foolhardiness. It gives a wonderful insight into the lives of people who will have changed so much in the last 50 years
