https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1080347.Papa_s_Wife
Not for me.I have no idea what book I was thinking of when I ordered this, but I somehow imagined both plot and prose as something completely different, perhaps a sort of Scandinavian Elizabeth Bowen.
Instead it's a bit like a slightly more grown-up Cheaper by the Dozen.
Nor did I care for this one.Like Cheaper, this is a slightly fictionalized but mostly true story of a family.
It's by the daughter of the minister, and there are at least two more books if you enjoy it.
I met Thyra Bjorn when I was in high school in the mid 1960's.
She spoke to my church youth group.
I was enthralled, and I know that experience stuck with me, inspiring me to write.
I loved PAPA'S WIFE when I read it as a teenager, but when I re-read it as a young mother it inspired me even more.
One of the scenes I still think about often: late at night as Mama polishes the children's shoes she thinks about each child--and that child only--with each pair.
Then she arranges them in a neat row, ready for the feet that will wear them to school the next day.
I tend to like memoirs in general and this is a lightly fictionalized version of the author's experiences growing up in a large Pastor's family in Sweden and immigrating to the United States in her teens.Although the author is the oldest daughter, Button, in the story, she tells it from the point of view of her parents.
Having read this many, many times over the years I feel as though I know the Franzon family and I am visiting old friends whenever I read it.The sequel, Papa's Daughter, follows Button into adulthood and deals with more serious topics such as depression and marital difficulties.
After reading probably over half of Papa's Wife, I decided I couldn't finish it.
There were so many times that she pushed, and pleaded, and manipulated; putting aside her husband's (and sometimes children's) feelings and best interests, because, heaven forbid that anything get in the way of her dreams!And Papa just seemed kind of reluctantly tolerant, dragged down, and not really the leader of his own home and family.Furthermore, I don't like how they mentioned "God's will" and "God guiding them" when they really weren't asking His opinion at all, but just chasing blindly after their own ambitions or trying desperately to save their pride.I'm sure others loved this book.
Papa's Wife made me feel as though I were snuggling down into a huge overstuffed chair with a thick and warm comforter.
I felt warm and safe whenever I opened the pages.
It brought back the same feelings that I got while reading books as a kid.The book was first published in 1955.
It hasn't been read much in recent years.
I'm looking forward to reading Papa's Daughter, the second in the series, which is also on our library shelves.
I'll be looking for a copy of Mama's Way to complete the trilogy.
For me, this was definitely a five-star read.
There are sweet orphan stories. Epic coming-of-age stories. Fantasy stories. A simple, sweet family story can be hard to find. This is a beautiful story of how one couple married, raised babies, and preached the Word. We need more of these.
Very fun read.Here are 2 quotes found near the end of the book:"Life was made up of joy and sorrow -- balanced measures of each -- so that you appreciated the joy more because of the dark hours.
Like dark strands woven with threads of gold in a fine tapestry, but to which, at the time of weaving, you were too close to understand its values." (p.
297)"But let us remember that life is very much like the climbing of a mountain.
Consider first the distance you have climbed.
Has he, whom you would judge, reached the same pinnacle of wisdom and faith?
This is a sweet and humorous book about a minister's family that moves from Sweden to America.
It's somewhat old-fashioned, but a great read.
The author indicates that this book is a semi-fictional autobiography of her family.I love Maria Franzon's character - loving, energetic, and persuasive.
I know that part may be fictional, but I aspire to have that kind of optimistic attitude with my own family.This book made me very hungry.
Maria is always making coffee bread, plättar, kanelbulle, and köttbullar.
This book definitely inspired me to bake.I remembered while reading that I read this book previously -- probably as a teen-ager.

LOVED it. My favorite book of 2014 so far. Mama Franzon is such a wonderful inspiration and mentor.
Of course, in Lapland she had not done all the work herself on those twice-a-year washings which consumed an entire week.
Twelve dozen sheets and several times as many towels and pillowcases.
Why, in Sweden, no girl would have thought of getting married until she had twelve dozen sheets, pillowcases and towels, all marked in lovely embroidery with her own first initial and the second initial f her husband-to-be.
Then she had known she would have the best year of her life….And as she neared the parsonage, she realized how lucky she had been that the sound had not come from another direction.
Sorry not sorry.) It was sweet and downright hilarious at times, although probably not one of my all-time favorites.
I loved how well the characters were done - even though it had a large cast with lots of children, I didn't get them confused for the most part.
(view spoiler)[ Papa's death in the end?
It was just so sudden I wasn't really expecting it, and I was thinking it was going to be a nice happy ending with them watching their kids get older and go off to college/get married/grow up/etc.
(hide spoiler)] I wasn't really a fan.
xP   Overall, a pretty cute story about a large family with lots of distinct characters and hilarious moments.
Genre: sticking to your roots, Scandinavian immigration, big family lifeSummary: Maria is a determined woman who wants to marry Pontus Franzon, the minister of the little church in Northern Sweden.
Maria gets her way and becomes Papa's wife, along with 8 children.
This is the trials and triumphs as the Franzon's grow up, move to America and start their own families.Response: This book is really adorable.
A lot of the stories were about everyday growing experiences that as a parent, you have a different perspective on.
Overall, sweet sentimental book about the love of a big family and growing up together.
I learned about the Franzon Family books as a result of my hobby.
As a result, I am constantly looking for books that will give me a glimpse of what life may have been like for my Swedish immigrant ancestors.
"Papa's Wife" tells the story of Pastor Pontus Franzon, his young wife Maria, their large brood of children, and their lives in both Swedish Lapland and the United States.
Even though my ancestors were not Swedish pastors, they were highly faith-driven, and this book made me feel as though I might have been peeking into their daily lives.
I enjoy reading "vintage" novels occasionally.
This book about a Swedish immigrant family was pleasant and a bit too sweet at times.
I admit to feeling like a failure in the housekeeping department.
What is it with Northern Europeans and house cleaning?
The chapters on raising a large family struck me close to the heart - as a mother of 6 children I could relate to Maria, the mother of 8.
Faith played a large part of the story, as the Papa in the title was a preacher.
Just a little bit too predictable at times, but I still liked it.
Firstly, I have not finished this book completely, but I read enough to get a pretty good idea of it.
It's a very quaint and sweet and somewhat silly story of a Swedish family.
It takes place in the early 1800's and it's about a determined woman who marries a stubborn and rather superstitious preacher.
I liked it but not enough to keep plowing through it.
There's really no plot, it's just stories about this family and their children.
It's sweet and I think I would like to read it all through sometime but I think I need a real grabber right now.
My sisters had raved about this book for years so I finally surrendered and read it.
It is another one of those "feel good" classics like Mama's Bank Account, a cheery book to read when one is depressed, discouraged, frustrated, sick, bored, and in need of escape.
Yet it is not mind candy.
It tells of a family's deep faith in God and wholesome family life in Sweden and then America.
Now I am reading the sequel.
It's one of those books you just don't want to end.
My sister claims it is her favorite book.
I reread this book after I saw it at a resale shop, because I had such good memories of how I felt discovering the story the first time. I enjoyed it again and realized that it had influenced my life at a pivotal time. I learned that it was possible to have a loving home based on true Christian principles because it was based on a real family's experiences. Mama was amazing and so unlike who I was at the time. I realized I could choose who I was to become. I love this family in the book.
I read this book many years ago and remember the warm cuddly feeling it brought. Button (nickname of author) grew up the oldest daughter in a large pastors family in Sweden. The memoir is just about their lives, never a dull moment. If you liked Cheaper By The Dozen or Life With Father you will enjoy this darling book.
I loved this book when I read it as a teen. It was on the bookshelf at a house where I was babysitting. So nice that the parents were out late...
This was a sweet book. Kind of a cross between Little Women and Little House on the Prairie, but not as good 😊
PAPA'S WIFE is the first book in a series written by the daughter of 'Papa' and 'Mama'.
It is the gentle story of a very young woman who falls in love with an older gentleman.
I will say that the story should attract those who enjoy G-rated and/or Christian fiction.
And I also believe the majority will either love it or not- there will be very little middle-ground.Me?
I noticed that several well-known authors read this book long ago and loved Mrs. Bjorn's style of writing.
Hence, my view: I thought it was enjoyable but not enough to continue with the series.
I loved how she tried so hard to meet the needs of each of her eight children.
I loved how he wasn't perfect either.
Lots of hard work to make a marriage work, but they showed how it can be a beautiful experience just the same.Loved this quote about food:They way you manage your own home is important too.
Little things again- like having the table set when John comes home.
And making the meal the most important thing in your life at that moment.
I loved it, but you knew I would.
From this develops a delightful story of Pastor Franzon (Papa) and Maria (Mama) and their life together with a growing family in the parsonage in Lapland and in the parsonage and on a farm in New England.
Certainly there are problems along the way, but Mama manages life and family with persuasive confidence, insight, and faith in God so that it really is quite perfect.
Mama and Papa do not always confide in each other and the family does not always communicate all that well, but these are not bad enough to keep me from enjoying this chronicle of a warm, happy, wholesome family.
I read this book over and over when I was younger.
However, I fear that if I read it again at this point in my life, The Suck Fairy will have done her work.
Maybe a weak reason for giving it five stars, but there you have it.I also wonder in retrospect if there's a connection between loving this book about a conservative Swedish minister and his wife and my becoming a liberal American minister who dreams of eating Lucia buns and other Swedish pastries which are described in unfair detail throughout Papa's Wife.
A young lady is hired to be a pastor's maid and she falls in love over time with the man she is a maid for and she believes that he may fall in love with her.
he writes he and asks her to come back to be his maid she writes him back and expresses if she were to come back to be with him it would not be as his maid.
two years go by from the time she left and the pastor shows up and begs her to back as his maid and again she expresses that she does not want to go back with him unless she is his misses.
I am very much enjoying it.
It's the first book I've read in a long time.
I alot of time get books and never get around to reading them but this one is enjoyable.
It's easy to read and the summary that is on the back of the book is only the first chapter.Towards the end very much like cheaper by the dozen.
The father dies and I have to say it kind of got me.
I didn't tear up about it but I'm a little sad about it.
I think it's an enjoyable book and I read the last hundred pages in one shot.
A great story about a preacher and his family . His young housekeeper falls in love with him and eventually he realizes he loves her too after she moves from Lapland to America. He goes to America to bring her back. In the course of their married life they have 8 children. They eventually move back to America where he becomes the preacher of a local church and a farmer! I enjoyed reading their ups and downs & how G-d was the center of their lives. This book is no longer being published. I bought a used copy.
Fun and inspiring, this book made me look at my family with different eyes. While contradicting in a few places, the heroine of the book relishes her role as wife and mother, she finds joy in the daily-ness of her life and in her faith in God. My kids are growing and will soon leave, like Mama's children, but that's not the end..."Soon the house would echo again with children's laughter. A new generation would be growing up to replace the old. God's glorious plan of creation - an endless cycle of lives coming and going - timeless, eternal."Recommended!
I've read this before, but wanted one to read aloud to Greg on the trip that would be an easy read. I'm not sure what he thought of it, but I did catch him smiling a time or two. (Due to the similarities between Maria and me?!)I had remembered these books as being true, but I guess not. Oh well. I liked learning about the Swedish culture. I love the pre-breakfast coffee idea. Served in bed, ideally. I also enjoyed the part where Mama shines the shoes of each child on Saturday evenings. A fun read. I'll read the rest.
