https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2082281.The_Devil_to_Pay
When Ellery's old school buddy Walter Spaeth calls upon him for help, he's more than happy to leave his lonely office in the depths of the studio to come to the rescue.Walter's father, Solomon "Solly" Spaeth and Rhys Jardin had partnered up for the Ohippi Hydro-Electric Project--investing their own money and convincing hundreds of others to sink their savings into the project as well.
How could a girl be sad about that when there are minks and diamonds and pretty dresses to buy?Added to the mix, Spaeth and Jardin's daughter Valerie are trying to be in love--but it's difficult with false clues laying about and suspicion focusing alternately on Valerie's father and her lover.
And this, I think, is a big part of the art of the murder mystery, and why I rate this one rather higher than most.Because I kept thinking, "Well, it has to be [that character]." And not really from any super deduction, but just from a narrative standpoint: "It can't be her, him, him, him, her..." because, literarily speaking, it just wouldn't have worked.
I listened to this before I learnt that Ellery Queen was a pseudonym for cousins Lee and Dannay, which made it all the more interesting, because it felt like two different books to me.The first part introduces all the characters.
Then Solly is murdered and the main suspects are Walter and Rhys.From then on the book seems to lose something.
It flowed well and I did think I’d like to try another Queen novel (though I can’t help feeling that the Queen character is the least interesting thing about this book).*I listened to the Blackstone audiobook – the reading by Robert Fass was excellent.
Not bad as mysteries go but one of those plots where you can't help siding with the murderer. Ellery should have kept his nose out of it and left it unsolved in my opinion.
After run of new authors I felt like revisiting an old friend, and it's been awhile since I looked in on Ellery Queen.
I generally like the later Queen novels, after Ellery's character has developed and he's not such a cocky kid.
Despite being the 13th book in the series, Ellery's still in late-cocky phase.
As much as I love the classics- Queen, Marsh, Allingham, and even Sayers- the social norms of the time become more cringeworthy the older I get.
Worth a reread, but I'm glad to live in a different time.
I was in the mood for an old-fashioned whodunit, and this fit the bill.This one is set in Hollywood, in the 1930’s, and so is missing familiar supporting characters from the early Queen books, such as Inspector Queen and Sgt. Velie.
It’s a tale lost fortunes, rich people and misleading assumptions, featuring a crime not nearly so bizarre as those in many other Queen novels.
Indeed, I solved this one, and I often do not solve Queen murders.I nearly gave up on this one, not particularly liking any of the characters and finding the prose more dated than I expected, but once Ellery arrived on the scene things got more fun and the story moved more swiftly.
Discreto, dai.Purtroppo questi racconti risentono davvero tanto del tempo che è passato. Dove Agatha Christie o Conan Doyle sono riusciti a creare un mondo che rivive a ogni lettura, il duo Ellery Queen purtroppo perde smalto.In ogni caso il racconto tiene, anche se non mi entusiasma.Certo che per farcela e far fare bella figura a Ellery la polizia risulta davvero incompetente e all'investigatore, così come ai vari personaggi, viene lasciata una libertà di azione che manco in un racconto di fantascienza.
A great read!If you have not read Ellery Queen before go for it starting with this book. You'll really enjoy it. And will start another right after.
Classic! Amusement! “Beneath that bland exterior he fancied he saw a considerable equipment for skullduggery”
As in all classic whodunits the cast of suspects needs to be constrained - here by putting the victim inside a gated estate with a gatekeeper permanently on guard.
Perhaps as readers we can accept the local police ignoring the thousands of Los Angeles inhabitants thus exposed as having both motive and opportunity - after all, stupidly arresting the wrong man is the main role of the cops in Golden Age mystery stories, but should we forgive EQ for not noticing that this weakens the case against the suspect he’s trying to prove is innocent?In the final analysis The Devil To Pay is a still a fun and entertaining read, but it’s far from a prime example of EQ’s deductive genius.
Solly Spaeth is a crooked businessman who has caused a major financial meltdown, causing many people to lose money, while he pocketed hundreds of thousands.
He has many enemies, including his own son Walter, and his ex-partner Rhys Jardin.
Solly and the Jardins (Rhys and his daughter Valerie) live in an exclusive four-home development (the two other homes are unoccupied).
When Solly is murdered and the evidence seems to point to Rhys, who in turn refuses to talk because it might mean implicating Walter, Valerie determines to investigate, hopefully to clear them both.
She gets a job as a reporter, allowing her to go about and question people.
I listened to this audiobook. Written in the 1930's, Ellery Queen is not in his usual New York, but is in Hollywood writing for a movie. He goes undercover as a newspaper man to help solve the murder of a wealthy man who was a major investor in a failed power plant project. The man is hated and no one is sorry he is dead, but there are many suspects from his son to investors who lost much, to a suspicious lawyer and girlfriend. Leave to Ellery to uncover clues that everyone else misses.
Another excellent book from the two cousin's of crime. I just enjoy the story and the times I change my mind of who I think has done the crime only to find that Ellery can come up with a different answer and sometimes very unexpected. Then Ellery Queen is one of my favourite authors.
A swell plot and some vivid characters, but in the end it is very dated by early 21st century standards. Too tidy and intellectual maybe. Fun, but that's about it.
An interesting mystery.More here:http://inkquilletc.blogspot.in/2014/1...
Ellery Queen, classic, fun, easy read crime. In this book Ellery is called upon to help solve a murder in Hollywood.
The first Ellery Queen I've read! (Well, technically, I listened to it.) I think I'll be checking out more in the future.
audiobook rather than paperback
read some time in 1992
More romance than mystery, it's easy to figure out the killer in this book by process of elimination. The clues are fair and easy to interpret, but an enjoyable read nonetheless.
y
Solid, well-written, enjoyable, but lacks the atmosphere and fascination of a great mystery.
A great murder mystery. I love Ellery Queen.
