https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574043.The_Red_Signal
2018 reread: rtcMy FAVORITE GLH book HANDS DOWN. I seriously loved this book so so much! The story was fabulous and it was set in World War 1, so what is not to like? I love Grace Livingston Hill anyway, but this one was my absolute favorite. Just amazing!
This story was just a pure delight.
It's a pretty quick read about a young girl who lands among some German spies when she goes to take a job her uncle found for her during what is presumably 1917-1918 (the book was published in 1919).
Most of the story is a thriller about Hilda's attempts to stop the spies before they harm the nation, and the white knight only shows up in person a few times in the tale.
Content: Hilda's brother uses some schoolboy expletives
At times I was on the edge of my seat reading with bated breath, other times I read as fast as I could trying to help the character reach their goal.
Well, except for the bad guys.While there are parts in this story that are a bit "dramatic" these things were real.
There really were spies during the Great War, there really were plots to destroy things, and I'm sure there really were people who helped uncover those plots.
Sweet and clean, with no physical distractions to make me cringe.
The version I read was rather distracting.
Published in 1919, this story of Hilda Lessing and her adventures foiling German spies, is set against the backdrop of World War I.
This book reminded me of Emilie Loring's wartime romances, even though Ms. Loring's stories were set against a World War II backdrop, and I enjoyed it very much because of that.
Naturally, no one else who sees her is in any doubt of her character, beauty, and worth--she is a GLH heroine, after all--but it is enjoyable to read the hero's reassurances to her as he sweeps her into his strong arms.
This is probably one of my favorite GLH books. The plot, and characters were awesome. But what I loved best were the notes about the war. Seeing the war through the eyes of someone who was really there is amazing. There were lovely, poetical parts. There were also tense scenes. Goodness this one was lovely.
Quite an adventure! Much more so than a typical Grace Livingston Hill romance. Hilda is a plucky and independent heroine who grows ever more capable as the book progresses. Popsugar Challenge 2017: a novel set during wartime (WWI)
Action packed!This is an unusual book for this author. Action-packed and full of suspense, I quickly read through this. Fun read.
A young girl goes into service after the death of her father and finds herself in a nest of German spies while WWI is being fought in Europe. With no idea what to do when the war comes to American soil, Hilda enlists the aid of a young engineer at great peril to herself, finding not only her courage but love as well.I love this book and I love it anew each time I read it. Beautiful story with a lot of thrills. One of the author's best.
Loved it! Don't let that picture on the cover fool you. This is not just a fluffy romance, it is an action-packed adventure! I loved the strong heroine. I guess you would call this historical fiction, but at the time it was written, it was not history, it was contemporary.
Set during WW1.Hilda Lessing is sent to work on a truck farm run by Germans.She is not welcomed.And something strange is definitely going on.Could these people really be plotting against America?How can she get help?Definitely one of Grace Livingston Hill's better stories.
Read between July & December 1983.Original notes on book from 1983: Good supsens story. Well written.
