https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128756.Death_du_Jour
I started watching the TV show "Bones" (on Fox) last season, but I had known that the show was based on Kathy Reichs character Temperance Brennan.
Not only is there a nice chunk of CSI thrown in there is also one of my favorite topics, cults.
So we've got murder to be investigated, suspects to interview and cults to figure out.
I zipped through this book pretty quickly.
Reichs is a fine writer, and the character of Dr. Brennan is a little more socially adept than the TV version.If you like the show, you'll most likely like the book too just as long as you realize that there is absolutely nothing in the book that lends itself to the TV show.
This is a series that I won't be pursuing. Almost 20 % into the book and it reads a little like a Standard Operating Procedure for lab work. If you've done any such, save yourself the boredom. The only other mentions is hinting of the title character's all good traits; she's hard-working, honest, virtuous, beautiful, slim, nice, did I mention beautiful?. And she handles pipettes and forensic tools with the same determination and purpose as she prepares her meals and...
Death is on the menu today at your international chain restaurant murder cult. Luckily for crime prevention, you coincidentally happen to live part time in all the locations that possess these sanguine establishments. And because you work a bizillion hours a week you go out to eat a lot.
So far I just find the writing amateurish and it feels like she's trying too hard.I also HATED the ending.
After reading the entire book I totally felt GYPPED that I was left out of the 'solving' part of the book.I think that one reason this author, or this series, annoys me so much is because I watch the series 'Bones' and LOVE IT!
The series is LOOSELY based on these books, at least as far as I've read in the series I don't see that many similarities, especially in Brennan.
That just irritates me too!Overall I liked the story, and there are some positives to her writing, but the ending really ruined this book for me.
People do have a modicum of taste and literary judgment, yes?Apparently, people have a taste for plots which are entirely held together by a soupy glue of wild coincidence and random chance.
People also apparently like cardboard angst and a wooden romance – the entire scene preceding the first hook-up of our main couple is summarized in a paragraph, with such deathless prose as, “and Ryan disclosed his feelings about [fill in random life event of note].” Oi.In comparison to the painfully abbreviated attempts at character and the flailings of the plot, Reichs devotes swaths of the text to explanations of things like spatter pattern analysis in physical assaults.
it used a lazy writer trick that happens to be a big pet peeve of mine: the character knows information but doesn't share it with the reader.
It's something that a writer can sort of get away with if the story is written in third person, but you've got a first person narrative, it's just plain bad writing to say "I looked at the back of the skull and came to a startling realization that changed everything.
Minor Character Standing Nearby looked over my shoulder, saw the same thing and let out a loud exclamation." And then wait until the end of the book to clue the reader in on what they saw.
"بدا العالم غريبًا بالنسبة إلي، والمساحة التي أتحرك ضمنها منقولة من مكان أو زمن آخر، ولكنها بالرغم من ذلك موجودة وحقيقية تماما."
It's the literary equivalent of the cat jumping out of the shadows in a grade-Z horror movie.But as annoying as that might be, her biggest flaw is that she loves creating several different storylines and then revealing that everything is related (and extremely personal), even if the convergence of events makes no sense whatsoever.
The fact that it's two women instead of a man and a woman changes nothing whatsoever, but Reichs idea of suspense is to wait until long after anyone would care to reveal the gender of the second victim.And oh yeah, every single event is related, from the saint to the tortured babies to the victim of dogs to the remote island corpses.
That said I can't recommend Kathy Reichs enough, she knows what she's talking about and she engages the reader rather than making me feel like I'm standing on the site and observing, I couldn't wait for a free moment to sit and read, on the train, during lunch, before bed, you get the gist...Its winter time and Temperance finds herself working on a misplaced nun coffin, along the way she gets called to examine the victims of a fire, this of course is no ordinary accident, what fire victims after all have execution style bullet wounds in their head?
Kathy Reichs, Death du Jour (Arrow, 1999)Death du Jour is the first book I've read in 2003 that made me want to not put it down until I had turned the final page.
She gets caught up in the twin mysteries of the nun and the house fire, and off we go.The best thing about the book is its compelling readability.
There are many points in the book where something happens and it's obvious to the reader how the event connects into the whole puzzle, even while it escapes the police, the main character, and everyone else in the novel.
I really have loved the other Temperance Brennan books that I've read by Kathy Reichs so I'm hoping the rest of the series is more like the others that I've read.
I had a hard time really being pulled into this one the same way that I was pulled into her other ones and I feel like it was because it was slow moving and didn't have the same thrilling characteristics as the other Temperance Brennan books I read.
I definitely plan on reading more in this series and as I said above am hoping that this was just a slow one.
I am secretly, and not so secretly, loving the crap out of Tempy and Ryan!
then I would be head over heels for this ship.Now in this book, Temperance faces another murder mystery.
However, that's not the only thing going on in her life.
There's a slow burn of a romance going on between her and Detective Ryan.
I definitely feel like her and her entire family should just go into hiding.
Maybe then she will be safer?Overall, I enjoyed the book but still felt like some parts were boring.
Like, the tv show but damn..
Deja Dead from 1997 was a great ride, taking the reader into the world of anthropological forensics and shining a bright light on a murder investigation from a new point of view.Tempe Brennan is the main character in both books and she mirrors Reichs's own life in a way: Both shuttle between the US and Canada working as forensic anthropologists.
The intrigue of a new angle, excellent writing, and a series of distinct voices of the characters make this a tough book to put down.Reichs takes Tempe into the jaw-clenching cold of a Montreal winter to dig up the bones of a nun.
Warning for Wanda: includes grisly baby killings.3* Déjà Dead (Temperance Brennan #1) 1997CR Death du Jour (1999)3* Deadly Decisions (2000)3* Monday Mourning (2004)4* Break No Bones (2006)3* 206 Bones (2009)
Brennan runs into religious zealots, tries to identify a nun who may be declared a saint, and helping her sister avoid a cult.
3.5 / 5 starsrtc
It is just a device for Kathy Reichs to insert her research on entomology, forensic science and cults;H.
However, even people who enjoy the book would have to acknowledge it is a complete mess.Deja Dead, the first book in the series, was a pretty good plot buried beneath a lot of inane prose: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Death Du Jour looks like it had an editor, it is shorter, and had the potential for a good plot.
Her sister's name is Gabby....whoops, that was Tempe's friend in Deja Dead who disappeared.
Reichs has a nice writing style, and she develops the relationship with Detective Ryan further from Deja Dead.
The initial programs based loosely on the real life of Kathy Reichs, just whetted my appetite to read the books one day.
Reichs is setting up her character, giving us bits and pieces of what makes Tempe tick, balancing a woman who sees the worst life can bring yet hasn't lost her belief in the goodness of man.
This division of locale gives the character a literal change of scenery.Death Du Jour finds Brennan in Montreal, unearthing the remains of Sister Elizabeth Nicolet, who may or may not become a saint.
Ich wusste zwar, dass die Serie auf Büchern basiert, hatte aber noch keins gelesen - bis jetzt.Ich wurde nich enttäuscht: Gerade die Protagonistin ist einfach genial: Sehr intelligent, sie analysiert alles und jeden und hat sehr viel Mut. Ich hatte Spaß daran, ihr und ihren Ermittlungen zu folgen.Etwas verwirrend fand ich die vielen Handlungsstränge: Während Temperance am Anfang einfach nur die Knochen einer lang verstorbenen Nonne untersuchen soll, häufen sich auf einmal die Leichen.
Allerdings ist das ein Aspekt, den ich von anderen Thrillern nicht kannte, deswegen ist das für mich kein Minuspunkt.Insgesamt wurde ich sehr gut unterhalten, Abzüge gibt es nur für die vielen Schauplätze, deshalb 4 Sterne.
In this book, we get to meet Tempy's sister.
Harry was a weird character, but the relationship she had with Tempy was interesting.
I was super surprised that Tempy didn't guess there was something weird going on at the conference her sister was attending sooner.
The commune Tempy and Ryan visit was quite weird, but I liked the creepy vibe it gave this book.
I liked seeing more of them working together and I really hope Tempy will give Ryan the chance he deserves instead of going on about how annoying/sexy he is.
Es handelt sich um den zweiten Band der Reihe um die Anthropologin Tempe Brennan, die vor einigen Jahren mehr Bekanntheit durch die Serie "Bones" erhielt - auch wenn es bis auf den Namen und den Beruf keinerlei Übereinstimmungen mit der Buchvorlage gibt.
Tempe ist Anthropologie-Dozentin in North Carolina und hilft in den Semesterpausen als forensische Anthropologin in Montreal aus.
Dieser Band spielt an beiden Orten und bietet somit ganz schön viele spannende Fälle, die es zu bearbeiten gilt.
Das Hauptthema um die Sekte war nicht so meins, aber ich liebe den Schreibstil von Kathy Reichs und hab auch gleich wieder Lust auf den nächsten Band!
First up I will say I listened to the audio book for Death Du Jour which I believe improved my enjoyment of the second installment in the Temperance Brennan series.
The story itself was well paced and full of new information that kept cropping up everywhere which meant that not all of the story took place in Montreal, some took place in Brennan's home state.
More character development is taking place in this book as the series starts to take shape.
I read this a long while back and must never have added it. But bummer, I had. I was so hoping I missed one so I could read another. She has not gotten any of this series out for a while because of illness I guess. I am looking forward to when she comes back. she is an author I found at the library many years back: One of the few I devoured in about 2 months and usually do the same with later volumes as soon as I can get them.
I believe that this is book two, but having not read the first did not seem to be a problem at all.I found this a fascinating read.
I could imagine the screen character reading the words, but the book is far more intricate, and in the long-run I would probably prefer the book to the TV adaptation.
Occasionally the details got a little too intense, and I'd find my eyes glossing over and having to re-read a page.I read it in one go, which is always a positive for the book!
Parts of the ending were predictable, but other parts definitely weren't: it is well-worth an evening's read.
3.5 Stars-- this is the 2nd of this series I've now read and I find myself a bit frustrated with this author.
Although she weaves a good, complex mystery, the story seems a bit too long or elaborate at times.
She seems a bit immature for her role in these stories, which makes me lose interest in her character.
Still a good book, but with just one more of these (Deadly Decisions) on my shelf to read, I'll probably call it a day with this series once I finish that book.
I absolutely love all of her books!! I own the whole 14 book series of Temperance Brennan & can't wait to own the newest one!! Currently re-reading the whole series for the 2nd time around waiting for the newest edition =)
I do get some pleasure from Reichs' Temperance Brennan books--even though there are some problems (for me) with her stories and writing.
Each chapter of Reichs' books is a crisp finish or segue to the next chapter, which makes it perfect reading before naps and bedtime.
I have not yet read her first book of this series.
And yes, I'm repeatedly disappointed that Temperance Brennan and other characters of the books are barely recognizable from those of the TV series, but that becomes less of a problem for me as I continue to read (especially since the TV series has ended).
Un caso davvero molto interessante e affascinante. Ho adorato il modo in cui l'autrice mescola la vita privata e i casi, le indagini e le lezioni sulle sette, le riflessioni, le domande...Mi piace Brennan perché è un genio ed è anche tremendamente umana,piena di risorse e inventiva. Così come adoro Ryan e i nuovi personaggi come Sam, e la sua passione per i primati, Red e la storia della santa e il suo segreto. Amo il modo in cui la mente di Brennan le dà un prurito mentale e l'uso del sogno per aiutarla a capire.
I wasn’t too convinced after the first one, but glad I continued on with the series because this book was way more entertaining.
I read the first in this series and was entertained so ordered the next two from the library.
I was not feeling this one.
I didn't feel any sense of urgency surrounding the crimes and didn't find them scary even though on paper the murders seem gruesome.
Really, her sister just happens to get involved with the cult being investigated?!?!
And what was the point of the nun/church investigation sub-plot?
I'm going to read the next book just because it's sitting here on my nightstand but if it's more like this one instead of the first one, it'll be the last book in the series that I read.
