https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1208644.The_Chinese_Parrot
It will take the Honolulu detective from exciting 1920s San Francisco to the purple desert.As in the first Charlie Chan novel, The House Without a Key, Biggers writes a mystery and romance in which Charlie plays an integral part while not being the main focus.
In The Chinese Parrot, it will be young Bob Eden who works hand-in-hand with our favorite Hawaiian detective from China, finding adventure and romance in one of Charlie's most perplexing cases.San Francisco's Bob Eden is a young man about town until his father brokers Sally Jordan's expensive string of pearls.
I'll give this a 4 1/2-star rating. Very clever mystery, well written and entertaining ... but 1/2 star off because the solution is somewhat far-fetched. Nevertheless, a wonderful read from the past. I highly recommend.
I'm sold.I am really enjoying this writer, this series and this smart, patient, funny and amazing Chinese detective.Why did writer Earl Derr Biggers have to die in 1933 with only 6 Chan mystery stories under his belt?
Why couldn't he have taken a page from Agatha Christie's or Georgette Heyer's playbook and been as prolific with his stories as 2 rabbits on a honeymoon?Why, Biggers, why?This is golden age mystery as its most golden.
A smart, witty and engrossing murder mystery that takes the reader to the 1920's California desert and keeps them there interested for 270 pages.
The Chinese Parrot, published in 1926, was the second of Earl Derr Biggers’ Charlie Chan mysteries and was even more successful than its predecessor.I was in some ways a little disappointed that this one, unlike The House Without a Key, wasn’t set in Hawaii.
Now she is broke, thanks to reckless investments by her much loved but hopelessly irresponsible son.The only way to retrieve the family fortunes is to sell the fabulous Phillimore pearls.Another old friend of Sally’s, Alexander Eden, is a successful jeweller in San Francisco.
When Charlie Chan and Bob Eden agree to deliver the pearls to P.
Charlie Chan continues to be an engaging character and a sharp sleuth in this, the second novel in the series, even though he's transplanted from his home turf to the Californian desert.
If anything, watching him improvise in a situation where he has no jurisdiction and must work incognito allows for an even more impressive performance.
I figured out the mystery once it became apparent what the actual mystery was going to be about - it takes a while for the central puzzle to emerge - but even so there were enough red herrings and complications that eventual resolution held its share of revelations for me.
Sally Jordan must sell the legendary Phillimore pearls to raise money for her son. Millionaire Madden offers her a bargain price, but she is willing to take it. How can she get the pearls from her Hawaiian home to the Mainland? Her old friend Charlie Chan has always longed to travel...Soon Bob Eden and Charlie are on their way to the remote California desert where Madden awaits them. But Charlie senses something wrong with the ranch set-up, and prevails on Bob to keep the millionaire waiting.
(Actually I did have a Russian student who did this once, but he just did it to fuck with me.) Anyway, I don't know if stereotypes are real or our horrible ideas about Asian culture have somehow rubbed off on Asian college students trying to assimilate into Western culture or what, and none of it excuses Charlie Chan, who is a fucking detective from Honolulu and would seriously never talk about a lotus blossom.Anyway, I can't stop thinking about all that stuff, but it's also really obvious -- the ways this book is really obviously racist.
The Chinese Parrot (1926) is the second in Earl Derr Biggers's mystery series featuring Charlie Chan.
Charlie Chan, formerly a houseboy in the lady's home and now a detective with the Honolulu police, is asked to transport the pearls to San Francisco where he will join the jewler's son, Bob, for the journey to New York to deliver the pearls.But the jeweler receives a phone call changing the plan--Madden has decided to visit his desert ranch and wants the pearls delivered there instead.
It is decided that the two will travel separately and Chan will disguise himself as a man in need of work in order to get into Madden's home.
Charlie Chan comes to the mainland carrying a string of valuable pearls for an old friend, to help her out and have a vacation.
A mystery is not far behind and this puzzle is one where Charlie suspects foul play, even murder, but there is neither a body, nor any clue as to who the victim could have been.
Charlie has more of an active role in this adventure (If I remember right) than in the first book, where John Quincey seemed to do most of the sleuthing.
This was very funny and, though predictable, I enjoyed watching all the pieces fall into place.
My 21st century self at first thought it was a bit racist but then I realized how often Charlie Chan was able to use his race to an advantage to find out more about the crime so I decided it wasn't.
Also, Biggers clearly points out how racist some of the other characters are and does not praise them for it, so I suppose it was pretty advanced for the 1920s.
At times I wondered if these novels were written with the hopes that they would become movies (as they later did) since there was almost too much dialogue.
I probably wouldn't have finished this if not for the character of Charlie Chan. He's a fascinating detective, and I always want to know more about him. Though a more-than-competent writer, Biggers is constantly redolent of slick magazine fiction -- in other words, a facile, charming writer, but fundamentally a superficial crowd pleaser. I remember another mystery of his, Behind That Curtain, being better.
Have read several times over the years. Never tire of the oldies but goodies.
Light, fun and written before the super sleuth conventions were reduced to formulas.On advantage of reading the old classic mystery novels is that stock clichés had not yet become stock.
Biggs follows the most basic of the rules in this class; the reader has all the same information as the detective and therefore has a fair chance to solve the case before the hero.The plot involves a reclusive financial magnate, his personal staff a very valuable pearl necklace a growing assortment of shady characters, the requisite female romantic interest, the white guy demi-hero and visiting Charlie Chan, on a busman's' holiday from the Honolulu Police Dept.
Quite a clever book, this second in the series of Charlie Chan mysteries.
And Charlie himself a stronger character, although he is still secondary, as in the first Chan novel, to the main protagonist.
In this case, the protagonist is Bob Eden.
And that is where The Chinese Parrot fails to live up to the first book, The House Without a Key. Bob Eden is annoying.
This is markedly different from The House Without a Key, where the protagonist, John Quincy Winterslip, combines with and supports Chan.The Chinese Parrot is still a wonderful mystery and fun book to read.
# 2 in the Honolulu police detective Charlie Chan mystery series.
Chan is in San Francisco on his first trip out of Hawai'i on a busman's holiday transporting a valuable pearl necklace for a family he was a "houseboy" for as a youngster.
However, instead of turning over the necklace as planned, he is asked by the family to transport the necklace to the desert location of a secretive millionaire who has bought the necklace.
As the title indicates, it is a parrot that is key to the mystery.
The second original Charlie Chan novel is a well written mystery that keeps you guessing until the end. Charlie is asked to deliver a very valuable sting of pearls to a dessert ranch by all old friend. The story is written primarily from the point of view of the jeweler's son who is to accompany Charlie. Written over 90 years ago the attitudes are much different from today but the author gives Charlie an amazing dignity within a world where he was not considered a racial equal. Fascinating novel on many levels.
The Charlie Chan series is about a Chinese-American working for the Honolulu police department. Earl Derr Biggers uses descriptive language to build suspense and to create a believable storyline. This book is one of my favorite books of the series. Charlie travels from Hawaii to California, and to try and solve a murder; however, the only leads he has are pearls, a pidgin speaking cook, and a dead parrot.
I loved following the story on a train from San Francisco to Barstow, to Eldorado, as well as, the various descriptions of scenery and plant life in the Mojave desert. For me the plot is secondary; I mostly enjoy the clever dialogue between the characters. I can’t get enough of the Charlie Chan novels. A fun read for sure.
Good book.
I was disappointed that I figured out the secret so early in the book. This wasn't as good as the first Charlie Chan mystery.
see review of other edition
Although the book is dated, it is still a good read. The plot is twisted, the characters are amusing and the ending unexpected. What more could you want in a mystery story?
Reread.
Twists and turns, as any good mystery will do, keep your attention sharp and just as stumped as Charlie and Bob Eden continue looking for clues that lead someplace!As with his previous book which took place in Hawaii, Earl Derr Biggers sets a perfect scene in an environment that is the antithesis of Hawaiian shores: that of the dry, dusty gulleys and desert landscapes dotted with cholla cactus that are scattered throughout the southwest.
excellent ~ Charlie Chan in the California desert.
I'm still a bit abashed at the racism in the book, but in a way, it's a product of its time, and in its defense, Charlie Chan is always portrayed as a good a competent person.
Charlie Chan, who used to be the house boy for the rich old lady, brings the pearls from Hawaii and agrees to deliver them to S.
All the while, Charlie and Eden keep having to find ways to stall the handing over of the pearls until they figure out what's going on.Then, of course, there has to be some romance, right?
However, it didn't take me long to figure that it's a reprint of a book written many years ago - the dialogue sounds like one of those black-and-white American movies (did real-life people ever really talk that way?).
As my Chinese friend would say: 难怪 [nánguài] (= 'no wonder')!Despite the cultural cringe (my apologies to anyone who loves those old b&w's), I really enjoyed this book.
Here's a tiny example:"Some hours ago parrot drops from perch into vast eternity."Apparently the author had met a couple of Chinese in the Hawaiian police department (the fictional Chan is a detective from there, though this book is set in California) and was inspired to write these books.
"The Chinese Parrot", written by Earl Derr Biggers in 1926 was a happy surprise.
It is his second Charlie Chan novel after "House Without a Key", which didn’t introduce Honolulu Police Detective Chan until a quarter of the way into the story.
Biggers based Chan on the real life Chinese-Hawaiian Detective Chang Apana after visiting Honolulu.
The novel’s writing isn’t as dated as you might think, seeing as it was written 90 years ago.
I’ll have to see if my local library has a copy of the first Chan story.
But before arriving at the ranch of millionaire P.J. Madden, Charlie and Bob Eden (son of the jeweler who is sending the pearls) decide to delay the delivery of the pearls so they can investigate what seem like suspicious circumstances.Their suspicions are confirmed when a parrot which speaks both English and Chinese calls out "Help!
But — and this is the interesting part — neither Charlie nor Bob Eden can figure out exactly what has occurred at the ranch.
If somebody wasn't murdered, then what?The way the story is structured allows a reader to second-guess Chan, and that's fun.
Every once in a while I read a mystery where I figure out the whole puzzle right up front and spend the rest of the book happily uncovering evidence that my assumptions are correct.
That happened to me in The Chinese Parrot by Earl Derr Biggers, the second in the Charlie Chan series.
I don’t know if my correct resolution means I’m brilliant or if it means that the puzzle in this book was an easy one, but it feels good to have hit one out of the park.
In The Chinese Parrot, Charlie Chan is visiting California while performing a favor for an elderly woman he knew in China.
I'll admit that if this had been the first book in the series, I wouldn't have rushed into reading the second one.
In fact, it is what I would have expected in style from a mystery of this period.
In this second one, there were only two characters that I cared about at all (and one of them was not Charlie Chan), the location was the California desert which had no appeal for me, and I actually guessed the "What" that had been done.It is an enjoyable read for those who enjoy period mystery novels.

Innanzitutto la figura dell'investigatore cinese Charlie Chan mi ha subito fatto tanta simpatia, i suoi modi di fare gentili e molto zen, il suo modo paziente di investigare e di riflettere senza prendere subito per buono quello che i vari indizi ti portano a credere.
Poi l'ambientazione western nel deserto in cui conosceremo il milionario che vuole questa collana di perle il più presto possibile è stata ben curata e ammetto che fino alla fine, dove poi ci saranno i colpi di scena, l'autore è riuscito a farmi appassionare ai vari misteri da risolvere.
E devo dire che questa eccezione ci sta nel genere.
The buyer of the necklace is an autocratic man who knew Mrs Jordan when her family was extremely wealthy and he was a busboy at a hotel.
Chan and the jeweler's son plan to go to the ranch to see what is going on and make sure the buyer is indeed who he claims since he changed the delivery place.
What they run into is complicated goings on, made even more complicated by a film crew and a stranger who had followed the jeweler's son at the boat when he was supposed to be meeting Charlie Chan.
What surprised me the most was all the derogatory and racist remarks towards the Chinese, but then when I discovered this book was published in 1926, the prejudice fits the time period.
Even after i learned that the racist remarks were part of that time period I was still shocked because it was so real.
The author did not need to learn about the racism towards the Chinese because he wrote the story during his own time period.
As a mystery, this was a slow moving one.
Most of our mysteries today involve lots of blood, guns, chasing and all around fast action.
I picked this up not knowing it was a Charlie Chan mystery.
The primary characters are filled out nicely, most of the dialogue sounds natural (but obviously(?) a bit dated); but the novel lacks development of the secondary characters which could have added to the world-building and helped draw the reader into the story.
Also lacking: an element of danger, especially for our lead characters, until the penultimate moment.
However, I'm not one to write-off an author after only one story, so I'll be keeping my eye out for another Charlie Chan mystery.
Charlie has done it againThe one and only Charlie Chan has bested the crooks again. The characters definitely are either really bad really good, but Charlie gets the bad guy and the assisting effectiveness the girl. Even knowing the end from the beginning, the story was exciting.
These are surprisingly good mystery novels, with Charlie Chan as the master sleuth but not the central character. I also like the mise en scene of 1920s San Francisco, Honolulu and in this case, the desert beyond Barstow -- and the characters' frequent nostalgia for the way things used to be.
I have a new detective! Saw this on the new fiction shelf at the library. It's a reprint of a time of stereotypes and racism but it's not detracting. There are many humorous one liners that had me smiling. The main point though, was how does one prove a murder without a body?
A Charlie Chan mystery. It was better than I expected. My husband & I read it out loud and it was hard to stop at bedtime. The mystery is really quite creative. We were both surprised by the ending.
This was first published in 1926 and most of it is set in the desert outside Hollywood where people were sent when their health was bad - lungs mostly I think - but that isn't the story here.
While Charlie and the young man who is there to help Charlie, solve the mystery, we get a peek at early movie making, the pull of the desert on anyone willing to give it a chance, and young love, of course.
I kept picturing Warner Oland, the best movie Charlie Chan, as Charlie in this book.
I now need to find the other 4 books written by EDBs about Charlie Chan.
Another enjoyable adventure. Interesting characters and a good plot. A good mystery novel.
I generally love Charlie Chan mysteries but this one was about 75 pages too long. It started strong but then wandered. It felt more like a first book than a second.
Davvero un giallo molto bello. Emozionante, e con un investigatore molto "zen" ma efficacissimo nei metodi. Finale non scontato.
Throw away everything you ever thought you knew about Charlie Chan from the Charlie Chan movies of the 1930s and 40s. Earl Derr Biggers' Charlie Chan books, written in the 1920s and 1930s, are much more interesting, putting on view the commonly held stereotypes of Chinese Americans during this period and the racism they encountered. The Charlie Chan of the books is an intelligent and subtle opponent of those attitudes. The mystery is clever and great fun, and like all of the Charlie Chan books, it has a great sense of place: in this case 1920s California.
The Chinese Parrot is the second Charlie Chan adventure, and was first published in 1926. Unlike the first book, which was set in Hawaii, this book is set mostly near the fictional town of Eldorado in the California desert, possibly near the city of Pasadena. The plot makes use of several frontier references, including an abandoned mine, a ghost town, and the 'Old Prospector' as well as contemporary movie making/showbiz references. The plot is predictable even by Scooby Doo standards, yet the style and pace make it an incredibly enjoyable read.
Great read right up to the end and kept me guessing
Starts well, then collapses into banality and fathomless plot threads.
A nice well rounded mystery novel.
read some time in 1987
