https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/743831.The_Devil_Finds_Work
A collection of critical essays on cinema, The Devil Finds Work interrogates the racist ideology of landmark American films from the interwar and postwar eras.
Baldwin interweaves cultural criticism and autobiography as he moves from reflecting upon the messages coded in the films of his youth to critiquing popular movies of the mid-1970s.
The fact that he contextualizes cinema within the context of everyday life frames the two realms as interdependent; it subsequently problematizes a model of criticism that assumes films can be discussed without reference to their society and history.
" I found a leak in my building, and:my soul has got to move.I say:my soul has got to move,my soul has got to move. " - Epigraph for chapter three.Being a black cinephile, I am always interested in reading other black cinephiles. James Baldwin just happens to be one such man. He has included some film criticism in all of his books of essays. This book is different because it is primarily about films that he has seen over his lifetime. If you have watched the excellent documentary (and the go-to
Its influence is in the foolish arch-types it set for American films depicting black people and "race relations" ever since.In The Heat of The Night: Baldwin takes the film to task for thinking that any black man would make any of the decisions that Virgil Tibbs (played by Sidney Poitier--his films take a beating in this book) makes in the movie at that point in time (or now).
The black boy has given up his hope of freedom..." He says that this action at the end is possible from a homosexual context, but that the American mind does not have the emotional maturity to consider such a thing, despite it being a valid reason.His dissecting of Guess Who's Coming To Dinner is the comedic highlight of the book.
Επί παραδείγματι, και ως ενίσχυση της άποψης πως οι ταινίες μεταδίδουν χωρίς ουσιαστικά να αντιμετωπίζουν την αγωνία των ανθρώπων που βρίσκονται παγιδευμένοι σε μια κατάσταση, η κριτική της ταινίας Lawrence of Arabia γίνεται πάνω στη βάση της έλλειψης αναγνώρισης του δεδομένου πως η Βρετανία σκόπιμα χρησιμοποιούσε και στήριζε μια αραβική εξέγερση για να ολοκληρωθεί η αποσυναρμολόγηση της Οθωμανικής Αυτοκρατορίας.
The root motive of the choices made can be gauged by the effect of these choices: and the effect of these deliberate choices, deliberately made, must be considered as resulting in a willed and deliberate act - that is, the film which we are seeing is the film we are intended to see.
The Devil Finds Work is impeccably organized: it gets better and better.
Everything crescendos: the biting sarcasm, the incisive commentary, the clarity of the summaries, etc.
The act is, in a way, four separate images coalescing into focus, and the image that results in his measured act of uniting those elements over time into a singular clarity is beyond splendid.
The execution of these essays, and the way in which they bring about this effect of increasing the focus steadily, is remarkable.
Baldwin dissects films to discover their subterranean socio-political agendas and and weaves in some fascinating personal history to boot. He perhaps reads a little too much into his interpretations, but is essentially correct about everything. A tough book for me, though, because I love Hollywood hokum and don't always want to think about how faithfully it serves reactionary interests by smothering reality with schmaltz and pablum.
Baldwin is always fantastic.
I marked this book as read in July and it never went to my challenge.
Anywho, This book is a nonfiction book that contains Mr. Baldwins thoughts on Hollywood movies, the stars who played in them, the politics and social struggles at that time.
His school teacher took him to the cinema when he was young and the books gives you an intimate look into young Baldwin but more so how the mature Baldwin felt about the entertainment at the time.
It's truly James Baldwin as a movie critic, the best movie critic.
Enjoy the read.
His influence on current cultural writers I admire, his contributions to critical theory, even his difficult prose; these all contribute to fan-boy level admiration from me.
I love reading and writing film criticism.
Films, for me, are the most comfortable works of art (especially pop art) to engage with.
This book is much less about movie reviews than about cultural theory.
And as an exercise in criticism, there's a lot to learn from Baldwin here.
The specific works in this book, I was less familiar with, with the exception of some very popular films from this time.
Will be sitting with these essays for a long time. “The question of identity is a question involving the most profound panic - a terror as primary as the nightmare of the mortal fall. An identity is questioned only when it is menaced...Identity would seem to be the garment with which one covers the nakedness of the self; in which case, it is best that the garment be loose...through which one’s nakedness can always be felt, and, sometimes, discerned. This trust in one’s nakedness is all that gives one power to change one’s robes.”
so many fantastic moments here: the readings of Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, The Exorcist, and Lady Sings the Blues; the description of Baldwin's experience in Hollywood working on an adaptation of The Autobiography of Malcolm X; analysis of the structural limitations placed on black performers/performance; Baldwin's complicated identifications with Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. so many.
Baldwin's great and this is a wonderful book of his essays. What's really important to me is his essay on Boris Vian's noir novel "I Spit on Your Graves,' which I published some years ago (and still in print!)
Part-film criticism, part memoir, part essay on black representation. This was my first time reading James Baldwin and given my interest in classic movies I definitely picked a great one to start with.
the root of a black man's hatred is rage, and he does not so much hate white men as simply want them out of his way, and, more than that, out of his children's way."* There such a torrent of observations Baldwin makes about 'Look who's coming to dinner' that I'm not even going to attempt to catalogue them.
one of the necessities of being black, and knowing it, is to accept the hard discipline of learning to avoid useless anger, and needless loss of life"* Baldwin stressed that Billie Holiday is much stronger than the film portrays her, that it needed her to be portrayed as a victim.
Baldwin is clearly a master. I was born six years after this was written. I do not know most of the movies or actors mentioned, but I will read this again. Part memoir mixed with social criticism. I had some trouble understanding the final metaphor. This essay seems kind of disconnected. Baldwin was so ahead of his time. I’m glad time is catching up to him.What I learned: Hemingway gets called out for his support of the Spanish revolution but his silence during the Cuban.
After watching the new documentary about James Baldwin, I Am Not Your Negro, I ran home to skim my stacks for anything by him.
I found The Devil Finds Work and immediately started reading it.
Baldwin's writing voice and style are addictive: his tone, gravity, pace, wit, and cutting critical edge snared me.
My lack of knowledge regarding the films I have not seen that he alludes to did hinder my enjoyment of this work.
I've been looking for other works I have by Baldwin and cannot wait to read something else by him.
Closer to 4.5 - a great work, incredibly written, but it's harder to understand without knowing the movies. Still, fantastic.
So-so. More of an anthology of film reviews blended with personal anecdotes. Not the best I have read from Baldwin.
I only wish I had watched all these movies so I could even more savor these words. The man is the God of prose.
1)(btw if this sounds a little familiar part of this and some other segments from the portions on the movies like the Defiant Ones and In the Heat of the Night are featured in the narration for I AM NOT YOUR NEGRO)In other words, what comes to being an active moviegoer is empathy - what happens when the cinema one goes to for so long as the better part of a lifetime doesnt portray a part of society truthfully?
"To encounter oneself is to encounter the other: and this is love. If I know that my soul trembles, I know that yours does, too: and, if I can respect this, both of us can live. Neither of us, truly, can live without the other: a statement which would not sound so banal if one were not endlessly compelled to repeat it, and, further, believe it, and act on that belief."
This book-- essentially one long essay-- is an interrogation of that history that takes many left turns into then-contemporary politics as well as Baldwin's autobiography, but uses as its primary touchstones then-contemporary works of cinema.
It is as great as you'd imagine, with the caveat that it takes some time to build steam, and some of the film references may be lost on you (they were me).
But Baldwin is such a strong film critic-- clear-eyed and profound in his assessment of how films reflect their times, in how they either fulfill or undermine their own storylines, in how the presence of certain actors adds new complexity to the work.
Ostensibly an essay about film, this book is an autobiographical meditation on perception and race and religion in America during the middle of the 20th century, blowing up the fallacy that we all share an experience when inside that darkened sanctum of a movie theater. Baldwin at his cutting best, full of pain and pathos and humor and rage.
Well, look, what do I have to say to get you reading Baldwin, huh?
Insight woven into beautiful prose.This book was an especially toothsome treat for me since he turns his sharp and witty attention to film.
Of course it's all still broadly applicable, and still hits hard even now 40 years after he wrote it.
(The eternal challenge to us, now: can we ever build up society so that we arrive at some point where Baldwin's work will no longer hit so hard and with such pinpoint accuracy?
It makes me want to do better with how I watch film.
Baldwin is an all-timer.

I always enjoy reading James Baldwin. His quick wit, his smart observations of people and his perspective of a black, gay man in a harsh America always challenges my perspective. Even though he published this essay in 1975, it feels so relevant now. His perspective on films, especially "The Defiant Ones" and "Lady Sings the Blues" were very interesting.
A witty and effervescent collection of essays, meditating on film and white privilege during the 1940s-1970s. From a deeply unsettling critique of race and white privilege found in the film In this our Life starring Bette Davis; Guess Who's Coming to Dinner- a classic case of Hollywood liberalism disguised as progress for Sidney Poitier, Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy; to the horrors of The Exorcist of which for a moment is seen as an awareness of the other; then a fretful return to the bourgeoisie.
startling and thrilling to encounter a clear-eyed sentence of pure truth every quarter page or so. reading this is a breathless experience, and not only because you find yourself whispering "bitch, yes!" so often. just an unbelievable ability to read a film beyond its artifice, while maintaining an affection for the construction of fantasy. film criticism misses Baldwin, sorely.
As though this was ever going to be anything other than 5 stars. As though James Baldwin was capable of producing work that was anything less than the very best. (This very much appealed to the American Studies major in me.)
Baldwin does film criticism!
It's no surprise that once again while reading James Baldwin my head exploded.
