https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26919.Continental_Drift
Go, my book, and help destroy the world as it is.”Bob, our main character, is a young man (late 20’s) growing up in New Hampshire, who, although he doesn’t know it yet, is surrounded by examples to avoid – his father, his older brother, his best friend.
His older brother appears to be living the good life in Florida.
Both Bob and his money-obsessed older brother seem overly or unrealistically influenced by ads on TV for tropical vacations and Mercedes.Thus begins the two threads of the story: two families seeking better lives in Florida – one family in New Hampshire and one in Haiti.
It’s not memory you need for telling this story, writes Russel Banks in the italicized introduction with which he begins Continental Drift: With a story like this, you want an accounting to occur, not a recounting, and a presentation, not a representation, which is why it’s told the way it’s told.This is an American story of the late twentieth century, writes Banks and he means it: this is a powerful novel of hope and loss set in the recession of the early 1980's, concerned with characters who could not be different but who both strive for something they feel is withing their reach: a different, better life.The novel begins with the introduction of Bob Dubois, an American everyman: 30 years of age, he has lived all his life in Cattamouth, New Hampshire, working as a repairman for the Abenaki Oil Company since he finished high school.
When I finished this book I literally felt as if I had been punched in the stomach. I've only had that happen from literature a few times in my life, and it is truly stunning. It's a stunning novel, in scope, in prose, in personal-is-political, political-is-personal thought.
This fine book deserves more than the one-line comment I originally gave it.
His life is falling apart.
And so, like a bird seeking warmth from the sun of life, he drifts south, with his family...to a promised land....
(Florida).Vanise and Claude live in Haiti, in a dirt poor village.
and so, their lives cannot fall apart.
And so, they not only drift, but go to all human ends to flee north..., to the land of milk and honey...
These two stories, which alternate for most of the book, ultimately collide, like continents drifting and colliding and that huge mountain ranges as they do...
When I saw Russell Banks speak at the Brooklyn Book Festival a few years ago, he read a couple of passages from Continental Drift.
The passages that Banks read at the book fest outlined the book's elegant "big idea" -- that the currents that push people to pick up their families and homes and look for a better living are a kind of force of nature.
Unfortunately, my enthusiasm for this book waned a bit as things unfolded and I spent a little more time with Banks' main characters.
It is the story of a man unhappy in his dead-end life in New Hampshire, who relocates his family to Florida to work for his brother.
There is also a more mystical story of a woman leaving Haiti who is bound to intertwine with Bob at some point, but the how was less expected.After finishing the book, which I took breaks from because it wasn't really grabbing me, I read more about the author and I think this has some major elements from his own life.
His capture of Florida and the Bahamas is pretty spot-on (Nassau in particular), as well as unhappy people and the decisions they make.
I did not love this; obvs that has nothing to do with relative quality and passion of the writing and whether other people might.I did not love it because it seemed to me the book revolved around a self-absorbed, stereotypical man in "take" mode, where the standing mystery is why so many women (flat, implausible and unmemorable characters) have sex with him.
It's like a protracted fantasy from within the male gaze of entitlement and power, however, this guy's fantasy is sad, empty, defeated, depressed, ignorant, self-defeating, self-sabotaging, doomed...so, not many bright spots.
The islanders and their fates are well-written and interesting, but even their characters seem to exist not to live their own stories, but only to serve our undeserving white male protagonist's.
But the great majority have more sense than to act on these fantasies that are based on physical drive and have nothing to do with the actual person who is the sexual object of the day.In contrast to the drift of the main character, Bob Dubois, the women in his life show common sense and his wife has so much of it that I can't help but wonder if the author didn't create her character simply to showcase Bob's actions-for-the-moment.Bob is so mixed up that his knowledge of the right thing and his desire for the conventional idea of success break to the surface of his consciousness at random.
With this book I became a complete fan of Russell Banks' writing.
It's not the pleasant family households he writes about.
But, he writes a true description of how we are.
How do people really react in situations.
That's been my tapline towards reading ever since.Russell Banks writes down to the bone of our truths.
How the hell does he know how so many types of people do react.His subjects drive me crazy though.
But, it's Bank's writing that got me.
His writing rings true to me.
I decided to read this book because it was mentioned in "The end of your life book club" as one of the most depressing reads ever, and I really love a good depressing read.
Unfortunately, I realized that I prefer depressing books where the characters are resilient in the face of their struggles.
He felt like a complainer who would be forever unsatisfied with his life.
The Haitian characters were a bit more interesting but the female also seemed to have no hope.
My favorite character was the haitian boy who was the only one to try and solve his troubles.
So far I like all of them better...- Is this dirty realism?- I guess this will be a story about American culture,.
maybe they should all be about five years older - in the Bob story at least.- a message/theme here: a brutal life breeds brutal people.
I was doing fine about halfway through but as Bob continued on his author-induced endless quest to be the most clueless human on the planet I had to give up hope.
NO!(maybe in spring training - that's all)- Bob's a sex addict I think...- This book is all about MEN.
This along with my other Banks favorite, "Affliction", are the only two books I can think of that I have purchased extra copies of to give to people.In this second reading, I was more aware of the tragic everyman character of Bob Dubois and how Banks portrays him.
It reminds me of all the good things that literature can do, the ways in which it can reveal our lives and worlds thru fictional creations; the way in which the judicious use of 26 symbols on a page can make us think, feel, laugh, dream, and cry, and to feel as if we are improving ourselves by doing so.
Get a grip!” He comes home, on the verge of a nervous breakdown, and somehow convinces his wife that what they need to do is make a fresh start in a new state.
The ease with which Bob and his wife sell their house and quit their jobs revealed a bit of datedness to the book, I thought.
Bob’s brother has given him a job managing one of the liquor stores he owns, but it pays barely enough to pay for their shabby trailer home.
When Bob finally arrives back at the house, in a post-coital, inebriated stupor, he is shattered to discover that his wife has had the baby while he was away.
ma non sempre dà, e se dà vuole molto in cambio: “nulla è gratis nella terra della libertà”.Le due storie, dolenti e pesanti, sono raccontate con cura, ma anche con una certa freddezza, quali esemplificazioni romanzate di analisi antropologiche e sociologiche: quella sui fenomeni migratori, soprattutto, che vede gli uomini spostarsi sulla terra come fanno, di solito più impercettibilmente, le placche continentali, gli uni come le altre spesso alla deriva, e a cozzare contro dure realtà.
I also am finding that Bob's solidness as a character -- he is, for me at least, fully realized and present for the reader -- makes it all the more...
As it is, I just feel that as a female reader I'm already excluded from the narrative, so thanks anyway, but that'd be a no on the multiple sex scenes for me.All in all, I'm not sure it's going to be worth my while to finish this book, not while I have such a big stack of things to read that I have a chance of actually liking.
I read this book while in the middle of Rabbit Run and I.
In fact this review may as well apply to Rabbit Run. It's a terrible thing to go from being something to being nothing!
A terrible thing for a man to endure, to be nothing after having been something.
Life is grudging in what it gives, so take whatever it gives as if that's all you're ever going to get.This is a hard pill to swallow, especially to Bob Dubois, who looses everything that's close to his heart: his wife, his daughters, his job and his brother.
That is what he had to endure in this life.
You can bet that I was afraid for myself and my life.
Given that Russell Banks has written so many books and had several of them turned into well-known movies, I am amazed that I hadn't read anything by him before now.
What an amazing wordsmith.
In the span of a single paragraph, his prose describes a character in such a way that the reader feels like he not only knows who the character is, but what makes him tick, his dreams and aspirations and his failures.
The story was actually kind of bleak, yet the feeling I had as I read it was one of exhilaration.
This novel did nothing for me.
I never cared a whit about any of the characters, including (and especially) Bob the main one.
He just drifted though life, making one dumb mistake after another and bringing nothing but unhappiness to himself, his poor wife and innocent young children--not to mention just about everyone else he came in contact with.
The Haitian characters never came alive for me.
In fact, they only took away from the narrative for me.
It was obvious the two plots would interconnect.
In fact, much of what happened was quite obvious.
I believe Banks is a good writer.
Excellent book about how an unemployed New England man and a woman from Haiti lives intersect in tragic ways.
How does a good man decline? What decisions made along the way affect him? How does a life turn on a dime, a whim, and how do these turns affect the future of any us. This is an amazing book that I know will stick with me for a long time.
Ratings (1 to 5)Writing: 4Plot: 3Characters: 3Emotional impact: 4Overall rating: 3.5
I plucked this book off the shelf thinking I hadn't read it, but as soon as I began to turn the pages, I realized that why yes, I have.And Banks is a writer to be looked forward to, no matter how dark, miserable and depressing his stories become.
(I had a bit of trouble relating to anyone wanting to live in Florida, but then, I have never lived in New Hampshire, either).I won't add spoilers because this is worth reading.
If your troubles are piling up on you and you want to put them in some perspective, read Banks' Continental Drift.
After reading 20 books this year that all were 3s and 4s I was looking for something that would really stand out and earn a 5.
His best books are those that tackle the big ideas like the American dream.
The book follows two people looking for a better life – a boiler repair man from New Hampshire who moves to Florida and a Haitian woman trying to immigrate to the US.
The story is tragic, honest and not very hopeful.
Great writing, memorable characters, excellent story telling.
Banks at his best, right up there with Cloudsplitter.
This book underlines for me how hard it is to write a great novel.
Banks is a talented writer.
He tackles great subjects.
He also annoyed me greatly with his repeated pronouncements of the greatness of his work.
His characters are well-painted but flawed in their obviousness.
Banks couldnt get someone else to write the forward or commentary?
Also could stand the main character.
Another self-absorbed selfish jerk using self pity to justify horrible behavior.I enjoyed the book and respected Banks as a writer but he didn't reach the greatness he seems to believe he attained.
I wish I could give half stars, because I'd probably give this 3.5 stars....Something about it just rubbed me the wrong way...not sure what it was.
Then again, it's quite possible that the entire point of the book was lost on me.
It was one of those books that I wasnt' quite sure if I was missing the point the whole way through?
I do enjoy Russell Banks' writing style and his concise and razor sharp wit...I don't know....Maybe I missed the boat on this one.
A tale of working class life so dreary it makes STUDS LONIGAN look like LORD OF THE RINGS!!!
When his brother, Eddie, who owns two liquor stores in Florida, asks him to come down and manage one of the stores, Bob jumps at the chance, thinking it will turn his life around.
His family is unhappy in Florida and Bob is unhappy working for his brother, especially after the store he manages gets robbed.
Ave doesn’t just hire out as a charter fishing boat, he also smuggles drugs and Haitians who want to come to the United States.
One of these, Vanise Dorsinville has fled Haiti with her baby boy and her nephew, Claude.

read a long, long time ago? (1980s?) forgotten until it appeared as someone else's read.
A really tough book. I almost gave it only three stars. But, as difficult as this book was, I still came back to it. I never totally abandoned it. I am not sure I understand the characters. Of course Bob is familiar, having read Affliction, but the Haiti half of the story was much less clear.
