https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375182._A_
My sweet unworded, we fall into disuse,The sense that attached to us persistsDespite the yellow page of local historySir Edmund Hilary encounters Roberto Duran(1), a meeting burnished in fugue -- one containing labor history and untranslated fragments, replete with diacritics and yet the parts are parsed even reduced to a winding single file of syllables.
They bend and ultimately creep, transformed into notation, an honoring of the sonic sublime.
This is akin to the Cantos.
What emerges from this forty year endeavor is man's love for his family.
Pangloss would be proud.
I viewed youtube readings by Charles Olson last night and I find myself cured.
In any case, Zukofsky's difficulties are a pleasure:An impulse to action sings of a semblanceOf things related as equated values,The measure all use is time congealed laborIn which abstraction things keep no resemblanceTo goods created; integrated all huesHide their natural use to one or one's neighbor.So that were the things words they could say: Light isLike night is like us when we meet our mentorsUse hardly enters into their exchanges,Bought to be sold things, our value arranges;We flee people who made us as a right isWhose sight is quick to choose us as frequenters,But see our centers do not show the changesOf human labor our value estranges.Just listen to that (and if you haven't read it aloud, you haven't listened to it.) Sure the syntax is complicated, but you can work it all out in time.
Kind of ridiculous to say I've "read" this .
(which isn't to say it's "unreadable," quite the contrary--more it's to say one is always (& in all ways) reading "A").
& I throw it up here now for a couple of reasons: (1) I just spent last semester reading the (inevitably so-called) Objectivists with S.Cope here in Buffalo, and it was rather sad to learn that this crucial 20th century work is *out of print*--which leads to (2) I was delighted when my brother found a copy (that wasn't way too much money) in a used bookstore somewhere near Amherst, Mass.
review of Louis Zukofsky's "A" by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - May 5, 2013 Lardy, I get tired of writing things like this:  "Review is too long. You entered 39826 characters, and the max is 20000" . In other words, if you want to read the full review, go here: http://www.goodreads.com/story/show/3...I knew about Paul Zukofsky, Louis' son, before I ever encountered mention of Louis. Paul's a violinist, Paul's probably the 1st violinist I ever started thinking of as a 'great violinist' - probably
review of Louis Zukofsky's "A" by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - May 5, 2013 Lardy, I get tired of writing things like this: 
Ahearn quotes Louis Zukofsky as saying "The best way to read me is literally" (p viii) & then Ahearn adds that "paying attention to the simple facts on the page—reading him literally—has some limitations.
Not only is Paul a great musician, but Louis' wife Celia is a composer who sets poems to music.
In other sections it ruthlessly breaks language down into the smallest units of sound possible, a process as radically inventive as that practiced by any subsequent, and more celebrated, avant-garde; it is rife with puns, spoonerisms, homophones, double-entendres, and other forms of wordplay; it is formidably allusive, conducting a thematic conversation with the mental and aesthetic achievements of Bach, Marx, Henry Adams, Shakespeare, Vico, Spinoza, classical theology, quantum physics, and many other artists and fields; it includes soaring passages depicting the Great Depression, World War II, the assassination of John F.
Some of this I adore.
Some of this is too abstruse for me the first read through, as Zukofsky is _never_ going to talk down to his readers, or even bother to give them an entry to his mind.
But there's a wonderful collection of fragments in here about passing on wisdom, and pastoralism, and the life of Bach and being a sad Marxist watching the world crack open for World War II, and the plays of Euripides and Aristophanes, and about growing up, and old, in that ridiculous 20th century many of us saw the tail-end of.
I spent some years reading "A" aloud -- all of it, bit by bit, taking one part at a time (rather than interspersing the four voices in the last section, set to music).
It is perhaps the most musically advanced work written for the American ear.
Brilliant, inclusive, digressive, hermetic and expansive -- and at the same time -- Louis Zukofsky's work is beyond full comprehension, but each and every effort -- at sense, but more so for the upper limit -- music -- is exquisitely repaid more than one can imagine.
“A” is an epic poem, over 800 pages, which Louis Zukofsky began in 1927.
It’s broken into 24 sections, opening with themes of horses and music, specially Bach, which are repeated throughout.
The final section is a musical score by his wife with four voices, which takes up a quarter of the poem’s length.
Zukofsky said his poem should be read literally, and I took him up on it, though I had no choice.
But I can’t really say what the poem is about, other than it’s about a life, in all its dimensions.
That’s enough.
My rating of this book is beside the point.
Do I think I understand "A"?
Do I think everyone will enjoy reading "A"?
I have been bumping up against Zukofsky's poetry for over 30 years for the exhilaration of it.
The texture of thought contained in the book is extraordinary.
I started "A" again while reading Mark Scroggins' biography, The Poem of a Life, and felt my comprehension (on several levels, at least) was finally improving.
A book for explorers of the 20th century mind in poetry - not another great book to tic off a list.
i'm a little tongue-tied when it comes to reviewing zukofsky's work. it's revelatory, a small rebellion on the page. language and sound driven, dense and collaged, it'll leave an indelible impact for poets/writers - sort of fuck up the way you see/systematize a poem.
I may never stop reading this book. I may never finish it.
best.book.ever.for.real.
please may i have my breath back?
This is an amazing poem, and it's my goal to one day get through the whole thing (and understand it). So far, though, I've only done a deep analysis of "A-9". Which is amazing on its own.
damn fuckin' good.even zukofsky conferences are sweet. he's a loveable genius.
Yes, I read this over spring break. Happy spring break to me.
horses, butts, Beethoven, bialys. changed my lies.
"A" is a 24-part epic poem by Objectivist (not Ayn Rand objectivism) poet Louis Zukofsky, in which Zukofsky tries to create an experimental work which captures his life as it is lived.
While at first many of the poem's experiments with language feel exciting and the insight into Zukofsky's life illuminating, after some 50 pages or so it becomes stale, and the writing just feels superfluous, self-indulgent, unnecessarily esoteric, and for the most part nonsensical (seriously, there are whole sections that read like the predictive text on an iPhone).
Certain portions of the poem (such as section 11) feel beautiful and are a joy that I could read again and again.
My edition, not listed in Goodreads is actually "A"-24 Grossman Publishers, New York 1972
I meant what I said about experiencing love for this poem...
I also meant what I said about "reading this one way or another for the rest of my life." It's just so expansive and comprehensive, it's a bit overwhelming.
Right now, Z's got me thinking a lot about interactions within and between sections of a poem, and of course, the sustainability of playfulness.
I should also add that the first time I looked at section 24, I was like "wowza!" When I actually made my way to and read the last section, though, I found it to be the most rewarding.
I haven't actually read all of this, but I'm setting it aside and may or may not return to it. I've read 75% of it, although much of the time I was just reading words which made no sense to me at all, no connection at all. Punctuation and syntactic irregularities or just apparent chaos much of the time. Nothing to anchor to. Other sections, especially those which quoted from or seemed to quote from other sources, a la Paul Metcalf, reflected a recognizable and interesting reality.
Stephen King recommended book as noted in Chapter 9 of Berkley's 1983 paperback edition of Danse Macabre.
A masterpiece of the American 20th-century poetry although Zukofsky is not an easy poet.
a freakin' underrated must-read for anyone who likes experimental poetry
Difficult poet who starts modern and develops a post modern, objectivist sensibility. Influenced Olson and Creeley.
It goes and goes and I go along with it. Zuk turns numbers to words. Thanks "A"-team for taking me all the way.
Rereading this. Always a pleasure.
Like a very long walk on the beach: too enormous to get your head around, but very pretty things wash up at your feet.
