https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108593.Driven_to_Distraction
It's SO therapeutic to read accounts of how ADD(/ADHD) has affected others' lives--those who have it and those around them--and it's quite refreshing to discover the positive aspects of ADD, as well as what things help an ADD child/adult to thrive.
(Lucky for me, my husband has got to be among the top 100 most patient, understanding men in the world; I knew going into our marriage that our relationship probably wouldn't survive if that had not been the case!) Can you see how this book would be so beneficial to me?
And, after that, read The ADHD Effects on Marriage--essential to keeping your closest relationship not only intact but flourishing.
One of those people had said, "I think you have ADD yourself" and gave me this book.
I accused myself of self-indulgence and diagnosed myself as lacking in spiritual faith.And then, I read this list:Diagnostic Criteria for Adult ADD1) sense of underachievement2) difficulty getting organized3) chronic procrastination4) too many projects – trouble with follow-through (p.
The best part of this book is that it isn't trying to pre-diagnose people and pre-dispose them toward medication.
One of the most important books about ADHD. Very helpful and informative for parents with children with ADHD. Totally recommend it
Written from the perspective only a seasoned "insider" (the author himself has ADHD and is also a licensed therapist who has helped countless others with their "disorder") can provide; this book is amazing.
If you've heard of ADD/ADHD (and who hasn't) but don't truly understand what it is, and how it actually effects a person, (and how many do?) you should read this.
And, if you've wondered, even if only half-heartedly, if you yourself might *have* ADHD you simply MUST read this.A fantastic explanation of what ADHD is, how it looks, how it feels, and how it manifests--the book helps liberate the afflicted from layers of self-loathing and enlighten the frustrated folks around them as to what's really going on.
After reading this book I came to the conclusion that I needed to finally go ahead as an adult and get officially diagnosed with Adult A.D.D. and try a medication option, I figured since I had been living with it my entire life anyway, it couldn't hurt to try this.That was the best decision I have made in my entire adult life, once I worked up the courage to finally schedule an appointment with a therapist I found the right dosage of medication I needed.
ADD is not what I thought it was.I have a child who has been experiencing difficulty in many areas of her life, but the constant arguing (between me and her, and also between her and other family members) was what finally drove me to take her to a therapist.
Once you understand what ADD is (and what it isn't), and how medication may be able to help and be a part (a PART, mind you, not the whole plan) of the treatment, then medication doesn't seem like an unreasonable option.
(It isn't just for hyperactive kids after all...) In fact, the condition has a wide variety of symptoms: forgetfulness, impulsiveness, tendency to get distracted, inability to get organized, a strong desire/need for structure, a tendency to start projects without finishing them -- the flip side is that individuals with ADD tend to be imaginative, intelligent, and energetic.
I recognize a lot of those symptoms in my own life (who wouldn't?), but there are also many facets of the disease that I can't relate to at all.
The author does speculate that we live in a kind of "ADD culture" where distraction and the constant need for stimulation have become par for the course.
great book for helping identify a family/personal history of ADD... i have struggled my whole life with some ADD issues, though i never knew why - until i read this book. it really opened my eyes and for the first time i felt like i had some real answers. i really like the lists of tips for dealing with a child/adult/partner with ADD. very helpful - highly recommend.
I learned two things from this book: (1) That I probably don't have ADD, and (2) how to identify what symptoms of ADD look like. The latter lesson helped provide much more tolerance and understanding of ADD symptoms that I now see in a new light among friends and co-workers.
Funny story: In 2013 I suffered such an obstinate, stupefying inability to focus when writing my most recent novel, and was so utterly behind schedule in delivering it to my publisher, that I turned to performance-enhancing drugs: I broke down and borrowed some Adderall from a helpful friend who said "it's great for deadlines", and then sequestered myself at another friend's apartment ...
This book was awesome in the fact that the psychiatrist (who has ADD) explains the different types of ADD with example cases based on the population affected, as of adults and children.
I particularly liked the chapters on families with loved ones with ADD, along with adults affected.
The chapter on the treatment is extremely useful as to provide relief and organizational tips for those with ADD.
The tips provided are extremely useful, especially the gain of a coach and mentor to get things going and pursue a normal and productive life in all of its aspects.
I was browsing in a thrift store and found this nice hardcover version of Ed Hallowell's book about childhood and adult ADD.
It had a lot of stories about different people with different forms of ADD.
Diagnosis can be somewhat complex with adults because secondary issues can develop due to misunderstanding of the original condition.Another thing the book points out is that ADD isn't always hyperactivity.
I'm not inclined to seek out a diagnosis but I like reading this kind of book because the strategies suggested are helpful to me and it also makes me feel a little better about my own challenges with attention.

A good early book on ADD in children and adults.(A more recent book by the same authors, entitled Delivered from Distraction, may be the best current book on the subject).
This book came out around the time ADD was starting to be better understood, and it contains a lot of interesting case studies illustrating some of the different forms of ADD and its subtypes, such as with or without hyperactivity.
Adults with ADD also often have a lot of good ideas or great flashes of insight, but often, because of the other symptoms, have difficulty following through with those ideas, leading to inconsistent performance.
I basically thought it was an overdiagnosed catch-all disease that few actually suffered from, and most usually adopted it to make excuses for acting like assholes.A friend of mine has been struggling with ADD for several years.
She told me it was the only one she had read that actually made her think, "This person understands my brain." She wasn't sure how I would take to it, as a non-ADD sufferer, but she hoped it would help me to understand my best friend's issues.She was right.
I consider that a victory.The friend who recommended the book, for what it's worth, had a different reaction to reading it.
I was diagnosed as clinically depressed at the age of 18, suffered from bulimia for ten years, binged in secret even after I stopped purging because I couldn't seem to control the urges to eat to quiet my mind, and always suffered from anxiety no matter how much the doctor's upped my anti-depressants.
Change and new things, no matter how simple, set me off an an anxiety-frenzy that drove my husband crazy.
This a great, first book for those diagnosed with ADD/ADHD and their families or support systems that are beginning to educate themselves about ADD.
The author, who is a psychiatrist with ADD and treats those with it, not only delves into the initial symptoms of ADD like distractibility, disorginization, inattentiveness, impulsivity, etc., but also the secondary ones, like depression, substance abuse, low self-esteem, and relationship problems, to name a few.
This book deals with the toll ADD takes on families, marriages, friendships, and work and gives concrete ides on how to repair, modify, and maintain these relationships.
The author presents me with a good framework to deal with my issues arising from my ADHD.
All good information. but really just a primer and not very in-depth.
Great
This is not really a review, but more my reflection on the new insights that this book gave me.First of all I need to make clear that ADD does not mean that you cannot focus.
I keep failing, and feel really stupid, and very sinful, lazy, thinking that somewhere deep down in me, I probably do not really wish to help and do good.So you can imagine my relief, when reading this book makes it clear, that all this is not the consequence of something malicious in my heart, but just an impractical brain.Here again I am led to a more friendly (and more hopeful!) view on myself by taking a side-turn to more scientific approaches.
I think the book is really good although it is important to note it was written in 94' and Hallowell has a newer book from 2005 called Delivered from Distraction which incorporates newer research.
But this is a good book, well-written, the author brings a wealth of experience to the topic and really cares about presenting it in an even-handed manner.
Although Hallowell is a psychiatrist that obviously believes ADD is a real disorder, I would not consider this book "pro-ADD" in that it does a good job of presenting information without trying to sell you on any conclusion.
This is an excellent book for anyone searching for insights into living with ADHD. Rather than a manuel on coping with the disorder, Hallowell provides keen insights into living with or around those with ADHD. I had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Hallowell a few years ago at a conference in which he was the keynote speaker. His own diagnosis provides much credibility to his assertions throughout the book. He is the real deal. I would suggest his sequel, "Delivered From Distraction," for those looking for coping skills in managing ADHD symptoms.
Good intro into ADD/ADHD. Easy to read and understand. He talks a lot about medication but does not say that it is THE answer. Much more to this complex multi- layer disorder.
This book was phenomenal.
Even though I am finished with it, I am still going to carry it around in my purse with pages marked and passages highlighted.
My daughter does not meet all of the standard marks to be diagnosed as ADD but she does show a lot of the traits and this book has been wonderful in helping me see how her mind works more clearly and getting us onto a path of a mutual understanding.
This book is written in a way that is understandable and informative but not dry and boring.
This is the book I've been searching for regarding Attention Deficit Disorder. The author presents clear examples, remedies and resources for help with this neurological disorder. The book is informative and helpful.
An interesting book for those of us interested in ADD. Using a lot of examples, the authors convey how ADD can look in different cases, in children and adults. It doesn't use too much technical language, so it's a good book for experts and people who know nothing about the disorder.
even though i started reading it for help with jane, it wasn't long before a certain other child came to mind, and by the time i was on chapter 5 "The Big Struggle: ADD and the Family," i realized that ETHAN is struggling with ADD as well.
the thing that i like the most about this book is that it does a really good job of illustrating that there are as many different ways for ADD/ADHD to manifest itself as there are people who have it.
while reading this book i felt understood for the first time.
writers of color cheat #1 for realThis book was recommended to me so that I could understand my students better. However, it has been extremely eye-opening, in that I myself express so many of the symptoms associated with ADD/ADHD/whatever. I'll look into this further... Overall this book does a very good job of describing the traits of a variety of people with ADD and the effects it has on the lives of one's family members.
It’s weirdly nice to read that my weird coping mechanisms are actually recommended by professionals.
I am not alone!" when really they make me think "Get on to the stuff that is about me!" (Maybe that's a sign of ADHD.) I spent the first 30 pages or so going "I am nothing like these people.
I spent 13 years on every medication possible trying to get me to sleep and keep me asleep, to make me stop feeling guilty, ashamed and worthless, to get me to what one doctor said was possible: 75% "normal".
Bipolar felt like a death sentence, but I read the books - mostly connecting to symptoms like "overwhelmed" and "overstimulated".
