https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3867.The_History_of_Love
What Sort of Book is This?“A kind of half-light in which the reader can project his or her own imagination.”It is ostensibly about love, but is at least as much about surviving loss and postponing death.
In this way he escaped death.”•	“At times I believed that the last page of my book and the last page of my life were one and the same.”•	“The truth is a thing I invented so I could live.”•	“All I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen.”•	“The words of our childhood [Yiddish]...
And as the stories of Leopold Gursky, Alma Singer, and Zvi Litvinoff are told to us, they leave an imprint on us even before we learn for sure who they are.The History of Love is a gorgeous novel with gorgeous characters who do what characters do best: they love and they lose, they struggle and they fail, and if lucky they learn how to pick up the pieces and survive.
The first two hundred pages are a stunningly beautiful and moving account of love and loss and the stories hidden within stories and then, of a sudden, it’s as if Krauss handed the novel over to her distinctly less talented husband to finish off the book.
Krauss writes brilliantly about love, in all of its forms.
And the multi-layered form of the novel where three narrators are each telling missing parts of each other’s stories is brilliantly achieved.
So, absolutely brilliant until Krauss’ ultimate recourse to whimsy, as if she and her husband were sharing some private joke, and which comes very close to spoiling the poignant moving emotional fabric of this novel.

Years later, fourteen year old Alma Singer, named for the protagonist in History of Love, stumbles across a letter from one Jacob Marcus who is asking Alma's mother Charlotte to translate the book from Spanish to English.
As she discovers discarded translations in the trash, Alma undergoes a personal quest to discover who her namesake was and why this protagonist named Alma profoundly moved her father to gift his copy of The History of Love to her mother.
Meanwhile, Krauss intersperses the sections about Gursky and Singer with the story of Litvinoff's life in Chile and how History of Love came to be.
I loved Foer's Everything is Illuminated, liked his Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close okay, and liked Krauss's History of Love a little less.
Things, however, don't come together as well as they should at the end, despite some beautiful writing, and the book that lies at the core of this story, the book that has lived on for generations, changing lives along the way, is really just an annoyingly simple allegory about the genesis of "love" and other "feelings".
"All I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen."Leopold Gursky, Holocaust survivor, is a lonely old man who dreams of his long-lost love Alma Mereminski and survives each day with the desire to just be noticed by someone.
Alma Singer is a fourteen year old girl who lost her father and whose heart aches for the mother that can barely get out of bed and make it to the next day - "My mother is lonely even when we’re around her".
Litvinoff has achieved some fame in his life with the publication of his book, "The History of Love".
The real message behind the story is that by writing about things and stories, people who are dead and experiences that are long past are given the opportunity to live on through words.
The implication with the ending of this book is that Krauss is doing the same and encouraging readers to keep Leo and his story alive.Another thing I love is having very different stories that run parallel to one another and intersect in ways you wouldn't imagine.
All these lives move alongside one another, rarely actually touching, but making waves for the others all the same.For me, the real message here is about the power of words and stories.
“Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.”—Nicole Krauss, The History of Love I found this quote from a listicle (please don't judge me!) of 50 of the most beautiful sentences in literature.
This one particular sentence left me with a heaping serving of "the feels" and so without a second thought, I chucked the book I was reading at that time and started reading "The History of Love."  A few chapters later, I realized that this was not the sappy-romantic book I was hoping for!
Leo is the obvious charmer of this novel, an elderly man who escapes the Nazis as a boy and eventually follows the love of his life to America where he discovers she has married someone else.
He has also written a novel, The History of Love, the manuscript of which he entrusted to a friend and believes forever lost.
She is named after the heroine of Leo’s book which her father loved.
It’s one of those novels that, despite its fabulous labyrinthine structure and fresh lively prose, relies very heavily on its charm.
But sometimes, at rare moments, a memory of him will return to me with such suddenness and clarity that all the feeling I've pushed down for years springs out like a jack-in-the-box....One more line, one that caused the words to swim on the page for me: "The truth is the thing I invented so I could live."The novel unfolds through several character viewpoints, through different narrative forms - first person accounts, journal entries, excerpts from a novel within the novel itself called The History of Love, even poetry.
She has set her mind on tracking down the woman she was named after following the thread of a special book that her mother is translating into English, which was a cherished present given to her by her deceased husband, whom she still mourns seven years after his death.
“Really, there isn’t much to say.He was a great writer.He fell in love.It was his life.” Can you think of anything grander than that?Neither can I.Tap Tap.
"If you don't know what it feels like to have someone you love put a hand below your bottom rib for the first time, what chance is there for love?"What a reading experience!
I went into this book knowing absolutely nothing about its premise.
What you should know is that right after I finished reading it, I spent the rest of the day rereading and underlining passages and clues I might have overlooked.
The mystery behind its author and publication, and the different lives it touches up to present day unfold in a series of personal journal entries.
And in Krauss’ tale, she does it many times over.Leopold Gursky is a recluse 80-years old Jewish Man of Polish origin, presently residing in America in a quiet neighbourhood whose silence is splintered by his only (and eccentric) childhood friend, Bruno.
When a letter arrives one day from a certain Mr. Jacob Marcus, requesting her translator mother to translate ‘The History of Love’ from Spanish to English for a princely sum, Alma’s hopes are upped – she might have found a match for her mamma, after all.As I read page after page, the sentiments seeped into the words became clearer – like some kind of a haze that one slowly peels off a window, one brush at a time.
How about the history of me bawling my face off.
FANTASTIC.....A FAVORITE.....I'll read it again!!!!!!I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!!!!!!!!
Her voice is less compelling for me than that of Leo Gursky, but still good.The slow development of the connections between Leo, Alma, Zvi Litvinoff, Isaac, and the book The History of Love, in terms not only of plot but of theme.2.
Bringing Alma and Leo's narrative voices together in alternating pages is a neat trick, but it involves a rather major shift in tone and pacing.
4. What else to sayDespite my hesitations about the end of the novel, it gets four stars for its compelling characters and its ability to create a mood through the development of those characters.I began this book at about 11 pm, thinking I would get a jump on it before finishing it tomorrow, but it is now 3:30 am and I have just finished the book.
نمی دونم بعضی جمله های این کتاب چطور منو به این اندازه داخل کتاب می کشیداز اسم کتاب توقع یک داستان عاشقانه رو دارید؟این کتاب راجع به عشق نیست، راجع به زندگیه که عشق هم جزیی از اونه لئوپولد یک مرد یهودیه که با حمله نازی ها فرار می کنه و به سختی خودش رو به آمریکا می رسونه و در این فرار همه چیزش رو از دست میده.
ولی کجا قراره به هم برسند؟ حدس زدنش سخته چون داستان پیچیدستداستان هایی که از چندین دید روایت می شن این ریسک رو دارند که با بعضی شخصیت ها ارتباط برقرار نشه.
به خاطر کتابی که در بین صفحات این کتاب مخفی شده و از تاریخ عشق می گه، ولی نه اونطور که همه فکر می کنند.
Not knowing the book was eventually published by the friend to whom he gave it for safekeeping, he now lives his old age in New York, lonely and waiting to die.
The chapters involving Leo, the author of the book, are well written and intriguing, very well (I imagine) reflecting the mindset and cranky humor of an old codger.
Then towards the end of the book, we all of a sudden start getting chapters written as diary entries of Alma's little brother.
Switching POV mainly between Leo Gursky, a Holocaust survivor & Alma Singer, a 14-year old grieving the loss of her father - both terrific protagonists, the peripheral characters are as well.
LEO GURSKY: HE TRIED TO MAKE SENSE.”  his tenacity, his  “rejection of reality with its army of flat-footed facts.” Funny, when I finished this a week ago I rated it 3½ stars, got thinking about it, changed to 4 – a month from now might bump it to 5.
Enough to understand - Leo was so wounded that he was incapable of change.
I dedicate this review to the wonderful woman who graced the pages of Goodreads under the pen name of Fatty Bolger. It was her evocative and emotional review that drove me to pick up this magnum opus. Quoting from the book, I think it is pertinent for me to say about Krauss, what she says about Isaac Mortiz,  "To call him her a Jewish writer or, worse, an experimental writer, is to miss entirely the point of his her humanity, which resisted all categorization."  The History of Love is not a book
She perfectly manages to capture the love, the loss, the longing of Leo Gursky, an eighty-year old man, who has been alone, pining for the only woman, the only person whose opinion mattered, for a period of sixty years.
"Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.
"“Of course she’s real.” “But how do you know?” “Because there’s only one way to explain why Litvinoff, who wrote the book, didn’t give her a Spanish name like everyone else.” “Why?” “He couldn’t.” “Why not?” “Don’t you see?” I said.
Being MovedIf you like your schmaltz delivered hot, thick and with plenty of gravy, Krauss is your writer.
I mean no disparagement by saying that nobody does Holocaust survivor-tragedy better than she.
The old man in the empty Manhattan apartment whose pregnant Polish sweetheart had left him years ago for America, and whose closest contact with his son is at the son's wake is tragedy with punch.
The way human beings deal with chance, particularly the randomness of death, and the role of the long-term tragedy of chance itself become pitiable.
With her remarkable skill, Krauss entraps (I have no better word) the reader into her emotional universe.
But I have a feeling that in doing so, I will do a disservice to the story, because this gem is one of those rare magic moments where you feel that instead of you reading a novel, the book is reading you, and putting down in words what you wished you had been able to do or write about your own life (as Alma father's remarks in the dedication he writes on the first page of the book).
He lost his family, his dignity, his youth, and when he successfully arrived in New York five years later, he discovered that the girl he’d loved since the age of 10, the girl whose “kiss was a question he wanted to spend the rest of his life answering” had married another, assuming Leo had been a casualty in the war.
Alma was named for the character of an obscure book, The History of Love, written by Zvi Litvinoff.
This concerns Alma.Zvi Litvinoff is the author of The History of Love, a book that was originally written in Yiddish and thinly printed/released in Spanish.
So, even if my dad was buried just two days ago, we had to give our brother a happy moment to remember during his visit because he only sees us once in every 10 years or so.My second personal complaint is that there is a big similarity between Krauss' style of writing here and that of her husband, Jonathan Safran Foer's Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close like the almost empty pages and the young person searching for something.
'Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.'This might be one of the most beautiful sentences in the arsenal of the english language.
Got the book, read it, loved it.
If I could describe this novel using one word, it would be 'tender.' It is actually a rare occurrence for me to come across a book and feel emotion from the prose.
This is a book that looks at love in all its forms.
Krauss calls this book the history of love but it struck me as being more a history of loss.
It is the story of a displaced person, an elderly man drowning in urban isolation, cut off from his only son and deprived even of authorship of his own words.
He is a man who fears that he is invisible and whose only friend is in fact imaginary.
Krauss has created an unforgettable character in Leo Gursky.
I could have done without some of the smoke and mirrors she felt she needed to create around Leo's story but I am very glad to have read it.
My review of this wonderful book is  HERE .What follows below is not a review. This page is a collection of lists about the story, characters, and themes, showing the many and complex connections between them, but without any emotional response or analysis.It is almost entirely made up of spoilers, so don't read it if you have not read the book - and maybe not even then.(view spoiler)[Seriously, this is FULL of spoilers. Please think before you click.Chapters and Narrators in Nicole Krauss’ “His

Some of the most beautiful and thought-provoking sentences scattered around the book were presented as selected chapters of The History of Love, a book LEO wrote at age 20 professing his undying love for Alma.
But “life is a thing of beauty and a joy forever” said Leo, “and a joke forever.”For those who like audio books, This production was narrated by four voices.
5★The many and varied threads of this story are woven around a book called A History of Love and lead eventually to a complicated, satisfying conclusion.
Not a happily-ever-after ending, but one that answered the important questions for me.Leo Gursky is an old Jewish immigrant living alone in New York.
Alma Singer is a 14-year-old Jewish schoolgirl who lives in New York with her mother and brother after her father’s died.
Her parents named her after a character in the book they both loved, “The History of Love.
Alma has dreams of making her mother happy again by finding her a new husband.
