https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7906.Emily_of_Deep_Valley
You finish them and feel gutted and raw and exposed and maybe a bit bitter that you've spent so much time without that book in your life.Intense, absolutely, but that's the thing about Emily: she was me.
She's the girl I still see in the mirror, the girl I hate, the girl I miss, the girl I don't always understand—the girl, ultimately, that I am and was and will be.I've read all of the Betsy-Tacy books now, and I've loved them whole-heartedly.
I could quote bits of this book forever.
it's like an enemy with a gun," she told herself.
There were two books that sustained me the most during my first year of marriage - a year when everything was changing, I had moved away from everything and everyone I knew, and I was post-school but pre-job or -kids, when my new husband was working long hours and I had huge spaces of time just by myself, wondering what my purpose was.
I love that Lovelace is not afraid to go against tradition - we are never sure if her heroines are going to end up with their first loves or with somebody new (in Lovelace's world, Anne Shirley and Roy Gardiner might very well have ended up more suitable to each other than Anne and Gilbert, shocking though that may seem!).
Reread 2/7/18:I like it even more, if that is possible!
It's just such a good book.
Also, it's a message I needed just now - "Muster your wits!"Original Read August 2016:I'm not sure whether I like Betsy and Joe or this book better.
I honestly can't decide.
:)Anyway, the early 1900s (Edwardian) is my favorite era due to the Betsy-Tacy series ...
and I suppose it has a certain charm of its own, too.
This is just the best book ever and if you haven't read it, read it, and if you have read it, read it again!
I had thought I remembered it pretty well, but it turned out there were lots of details I hadn't remembered, such as how great Cab (a minor character from the main series) is in this book.
And also that Betsy makes an appearance.
I had also forgotten just how sad the first half of the book is, but I remembered quite accurately that it becomes really wonderful.
It almost (but not quite) makes me want to take up a volume of Browning and Herndon's Lincoln: The True Story of a Great Life.
To me it's the perfect kind of story, about real people living simple but meaningful lives, dealing with struggles and joys and trying to find their way through it all.I discovered this author and her Betsy-Tacy books when I was in grade school.
Emily of Deep Valley is a girl a bit younger than Betsy, growing up in the same town, who lives a very different life; it's a different style of book but still delightful.
Unlike Betsy, Emily doesn't have a warm family circle.
I'm happy that it's now available in e-book form, so fans don't have to track down a hoarded copy to read it.
The sense of isolation from your crowd, of wanting to belong even while knowing it is impossible and, worse, existing on a fringe where you are accepted and welcome but still just that wee bit off is extremely strong in this book and conveyed with an understanding and depth that is very evocative.I had a couple problems connecting to the book, though, and not any of them the obvious ones.
I think being that close and yet off kept me from connecting more than if I had been closer to the poles of popularity (and yes, I'm conscious of how deeply ironic that is given the book is about being so close and yet off).The second problem is Don. That guy was a complete poo and Emily's obsession with him diminished her.
Emily's just graduated from high school, but unlike everyone else in her class, she's not going to college (or, as some are doing, getting married).
Instead, she's going to stay at home to take care of her grandfather.
All she wants to do is go to college and keep learning.
Her friends are kind of awful.)This is very different from the other Deep Valley books.
Also, to her credit, the easiest way to get to college---ditching her grandfather---isn't even an option.
Even when he suggests that maybe she'd want to leave Deep Valley.I'm going to miss this series more than you know.
This is the best companion book to the Betsy-Tacy series, as well as being a terrific "stand alone" book if you are unfortunate enough to not be acquainted with B-T. I believe I read that this is Lovelace's fave of all the books she wrote, and I can understand why. It's pretty fab.
Emily does not have the effervescence of personality - or the fun-loving friends and family - which characterise Betsy Ray, and contribute to so much of the charm of those books.
But for a certain kind of reader, I think that Emily is absolutely the perfect heroine.
I admired Emily very much, and was completely delighted by the happy ending she finds for herself.This book, set in 1912-3, has a wonderful sense of period detail: not just in clothes and furnishings, but also in terms of key events in American history.
This is, by far, my favorite out of all of Lovelace's books! It's a in depth story of a young woman coming into her own, and realizing that she can gain education and purpose right in her quiet home town. Watching Emily spread her wings really inspired and moved me, and the ending is just the cherry on top!
It was one of the highest honors in my writing life to be asked to write the foreword for this new edition. I adore EMILY and always will.
This book makes me want to put my hair up in a psyche knot and coach Syrians in ESL.
Particularly since the authors were roughly contemporary.)I love Mr. Wakeman, and how he was introduced, and then she meets him at Mrs. Fowler's again.
I love the Syrian boys, and how that comes about.
I love their traditions.The Little Syria subplot was a long time coming, given that the author sowed the seeds in Betsy, Tacy and Tib. I guess this book was to be expected.
Speaking of which, I love how Alice introduces Emily to the older crowd (parenthetically, Alice so needs her own book.
I apparently have a thing when it comes to the teachers shipping couples in this book.
I always say I don't like this book, and it's one of the few in the series I have not read countless times.
This time through, I wanted to analyze that assertion, and I can say with conviction that I like the book just fine.
All this time I thought it was Grandpa Webster who rubbed me the wrong way but, no.
It's Emily.My friend Wendy is absolutely right, Grandpa Webster would have happily gone along with anything Emmy wanted.
I could enumerate the things I don't like about Emily (I took notes!) but it doesn't matter.I enjoyed the book very much as a return to Deep Valley.
Emily of Deep Valley takes place in 1912.
Then she decides to embark on a private study club, take dancing lessons and assist the local Syrian refugees.Maud Hart Lovelace provides detailed descriptions of Emily’s clothes, the music she listens to, the books she reads, the plays she attends, the meals she cooks and the politicians she supports.
There are beautiful descriptions of Deep Valley, Minnesota’s countryside, flowers and birds.
If I had to use one word to describe Maud Hart Lovelace’s books, it would be timeless.
I may have to go back and read some of the Betsy/Tacy books so I can visit in Deep Valley again!
This had everything I love in an old/er book.
Emily was so relatable; her successes and failures were like your own; she was sort of a plain Jane, but not overly so; and she wound up happy.
All of the other characters were so lovely too.
Grandpa, Cab, even Don and Annette, and of course Jed. The children were lovely; I loved Kalil, Yusuf, and Layla.
I loved the little cameos from Betsy, Tacy, and Tib, and Winona.
This was just such a charming book.
So like some of the Anne books in so many ways, but better in other ways.
Re-read for November VSC. Still think Jed is written as a too good to be true guy, but oh well. I am firmly convinced that the engaged–practically! situation will wither away before it becomes real engagement.Love this line which could be in a screenplay for the rom-com version:"Miss Bangeter, casting off dignity for once, caught Emily to her queenly bosom."Read:1-16-2006. I know I've read it since then, but where are my records?
This book is a little old-fashioned, but so refreshing. Compared to the current books for the 9-12 year old girls, this one is uplifting and motivating. It definitely doesn't have the intense plotline of more modern children's books, but is still an engaging story. Also, like the Little House on the Prairie books, it gives good insight to the culture of America (just set in the early 1900's).
This was a re-read from when I was a kid. At first glance it is an out moded, unstylish book. But I love how she took on racism in 1950, and anyone can relate to being left out and having "unfair" circumstances change their life. And then there is the line "I jus don't think about you. Good bye." I just cheered inside! I'm totally reading this to my girls when they are in middle school.
More of a 4.8 I forgot how much I love Lovelace's writing and characters. It feels so comforting and familiar. The beginning of the book was a little hard for me to get into, but the last 2/3 were so sweet. Emily is a new favorite heroine.
I'll now proceed with the review.Synopsis: Emily Webster, an orphan living with her grandfather, is not like the other girls her age in Deep Valley, Minnesota.
Likes: I love wholesome old books that are reminiscent of those bygone days where everything was simpler and wasn't so messed up, so I loved Emily of Deep Valley because that's what it is.
True, it doesn't have a flashy cover or a twisting, turning plot, but it's got a good, solid story that's worth reading just because it's for girls who are growing up and trying to understand what to look for in life.
Mothers, give this to your daughters if you want them to learn discernment on choosing a mate. Superb book, in general. Character building in the best way.
She also takes music and dance lessons, and begins a book club with a former teacher, the town librarian, and some of her former classmates who also stayed at home, as well as some girls from earlier graduating classes.In addition to these deliberate changes in her life, she finds herself becoming involved in helping members of the Syrian community in town.
As in most other Betsy-Tacy book, Emily crushes on the Wrong Boy at first, but as her maturity grows, she discovers that this crush of hers is actually not a very nice guy.
Cleanliness:Sexual ContentLust - 2 Incident: Emily has had a crush on a young man in her high school for many years now.
Two couples sing and caress each other.A couple ice skate "arms crossed and hands clasped." A man holds a lady's arm closely, helping her walk across a rough patch.
But she couldn't be sure." When a man proposes, he takes the lady's hand, they embrace and kiss.Sexual Miscellaneous - 6 Incidents: Characters often go to dances throughout the book.
She "caught Emily to her queenly bosom."For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics and Profanity, visit my website.
I'm so glad they suggested it, because "Emily of Deep Valley" has claimed a place in my heart and won't be forgotten any time soon.The story opens with Emily Webster on the cusp of her high school graduation in 1912.
Emily comes to find joy and fulfillment, and endears herself to many - including a wonderful man who will capture the hearts of readers everywhere!This ranks among the best 'coming into her own' stories that I've read, right up near longtime favorites Rilla of Ingleside and A Girl of the Limberlost.
If these kinds of stories appeal to you, I couldn't recommend "Emily of Deep Valley" more highly!This review originated at http://reviewsbyerin.dreamwidth.org
Interesting to consider whether Betsy is like Annette with her crowd, but then Betsy and her class do appear and Emily wonders that they act so silly though they're so "old".
Favorite parts: spotlighting the Syrians; Emily learning about what can be education, about her character and about the two main men’s characters; the mixing of generations and not just in a parental way (Emily having meetings and creating classes with teachers, other adults and former students a bit older than her).2016 review: Wonderful story.
Aside from that, reading it came at the perfect time when I'd had a big disappointment and it felt like I could follow her through the different stages.
On the one hand, I loved the way Emily has to learn to craft a life for herself after all her friends go off to college.
It's as though we were given a heap of blocks and told to build a house..." That's a message that really resonates with me and I enjoyed watching Emily grow.
What I didn't enjoy as much was her odd obsession with Don, who from the beginning seemed like a real jerk, and the slightly preachy tone of the story.
Emily doesn't disappoint: the old-fashioned tone of the book perfectly depicts the life of early 20th century Midwesterners.
Compared to today's girls, Emily will seem mild and rather passive; by the standards of 1912, she's quite a go-getter.
Her decisions regarding getting ahead with her life rather than moping because she doesn't have the educational opportunities her Crowd does are rather modern for her day - and yes, she does mimic her heroine Jane Addams in some ways.
It's also nice to have the "old" Crowd of Betsy-Tacey (and Tib!) make appearances.If you haven't read the Betsy-Tacey books, do so; if you have, you must read this next!
The more I think about this story, the more I love it.
I don't typically read love stories, but this one was just the right type-- where the relationship is the cherry on top of the beautiful and delicious cake the heroine has built for herself.
Emily did indeed "muster her wits," and I found her situation relatable and inspiring.
This is the type of romance I would want to have, one where we are "looking outward together in the same direction" as Saint-Exupery puts it.
Perfect to read around Valentine's Day!
PS I wish Emily could go do a speech for Trump and change his mind about immigration.
This is a re-read from quite some years ago.
For a book that is rated for ages 8 and up, it is extremely well-written.
Emily's story drew me in.
I'd forgotten how much I liked Ms Lovelace's books, and I never really appreciated how well she writes.
Always knew that I like all the books she wrote about Betsy, Tacy and Tib, but reading them at a young age, I liked the story more than the writing.
Story is set in 1912-1913, and it brings back how patriotic people were, how they revered the 'old soldiers' and makes me homesick for a time I never lived in.
