https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41819.Understanding_Physics
I thought I was a hopeless case.Then, a few years ago, I was browsing the "bargain books" bin at a Barnes & Noble in Birmingham, Alabama.
A Physics book.
I bought it without hesitation and started reading it immediately in the book store while waiting on my friends to get done.Not only did I understand every word Mr. Asimov wrote, I found that it all made perfect sense.
Because Asimov explains the formulae.
I've read many books about physics, math, and such since then, and thanks to the foundations this book laid, I understood them.If you can find a copy of this, get it.
Check used book stores.
Understanding Physics, a compilation of three volumes covering (I) Newtonian mechanics and thermodynamics, (II) electromagnetism, and (III) atomic physics, is a fantastically useful reference for everything you probably learned in high school physics and then forgot.
It is also very well indexed and cross-referenced.Dr. Asimov preferred to write about science from a historical viewpoint, which highlights science as a process of discovery, rather than a dry recitation of facts.
In fact, this book also appeared under the title The History of Physics.While the first two volumes concern topics thoroughly understood before the 20th century, the third volume, The Proton, Neutron and Electron, is somewhat dated.
This is the first physics book I read, and I have gone on to read very many since then.
I can't say that I wouldn't have chosen to become a physicist had I not read this book, as I was naturally drawn to physics.
But for me, this turned out to be the perfect first physics book, because Asimov did a fantastic job of introducing the subject in an accessible way without dumbing it down like so many popular science writers would have done.
After reading this book 16 years ago, I knew with complete certainty that I wanted to become a physicist, and I never looked back.
Okay, so it's not the standard model of particle physics, General Relativity or Quantum Chromo-Dynamics. But as a sort of primer on applied physics this is one of the best general audience books out there. Asimov doesn't 'fake it' (as Feyman always warned about), but gives it straight and notes when he's leaving details and complications out. This book is not bleeding edge particle mechanics but it would serve you well in a Newtonian Universe. Probably my favorite book by Asimov.
Even though it's written for the layman, it still a bit heavy for the average reader.
This book is an overview of the fundamentals of physics.
In a very lucid and entertaining style, this great sci-fi writer makes a seemingly difficult subject understandable and riveting.
The physics classes I took in college were oriented towards the problem solving.
Calculus is not required to understand and enjoy this work.
This book was written in 1966, so much of the phenomena, such as fiber optic technology, that we see in today’s world are not covered.
Also, this book is bulky and must be read at a desk.
Still it is a much worthwhile and satisfying read.
This was the first physics book that I read and I greatly enjoyed it. I do not possess an extensive background in physics, but I did take an introductory course in the subject during High School. I was absolutely amazed with the ease of which Asimov translates the abstract and technical material in this book into everyday language. He also provides numerous concrete examples so that you are able to visualize the concept more concretely.I would highly recommend this book to anyone seeking an introduction into the world of physics!
The Good Doctor presents a comprehensive treatment of every aspect of physics in this one-volume edition, which otherwise is presented in three volumes: Volume 1 Motion, Sound & Heat; Volume 2 Light, Magnetism & Electricity; and Volume 3 Electron, Proton & Neutron.
This was originally my dad's book, a long time ago, and I couldn't keep my hands off it when I was a kid. It's an excellent overview by any measure, and far more accessible than any other science book I've since encountered, while still possessing breadth and depth.
I'm just a fat nerd who loves Isaac Asimov.
Great summary of basic physics, another great job Asimov!
is it good ?
im cool
I liked it: Most everything in layman's terms.
11/7/88. No library and no iBooks.
Good book if you want to understand the basic ideas of physics at a conversational level. Not a textbook or book for physics students
