https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227114.The_Heart_of_Thoreau_s_Journals
This book took me several months to read but was worth it. Thoreau jumps back and forth between observations about nature and comments about life, people, society, and politics in an impressive way that only someone free of the rat race could make.Since reading his journal I have been much more conscious of nature and simple changes and sightings are now interesting, and even fascinating.Warning: Definitely doesn't read like a novel and doesn't flow like Walden, but it is worth the effort if you are a person who looks beyond money, prestige, and society for a fulfilling life.
Interesting to think of the different 19th century "journal styles": Thoreau seems closer to Emerson, for example, than the Englishman Francis Kilvert, though all three of their notebooks are similarly obsessed with nature.
Nature for Americans is something to hang your hat on, and that's what so hilarious to me about this book.
Still, if every great diary is a personal, one-man (or woman) self-help book, then Thoreau's teaches: 1) How to be profitably alone, 2) How to feel that nature is a constellation in which you are the single, all-encompassing figure, and 3) How to look at natural objects with a clean eye.
Leaves out the naturalists' observations, if which I would have liked a few examples included (but they are easy enough to find online). Some surprisingly heartbreaking passages on broken friendships as he got older. I skimmed thru some of this as I was mostly grabbing excerpts for an assignment, but kept getting caught up and reading bits unrelated to my project, so I guess that means it's pretty good.
The blurb says his journals are regarded as his best work. I think that's unfair to Walden. I say read Walden - his great great book - so much more than you expect and so much more independent and rebellious than society's idea of Thoreau would suggest; for more - read the journals.
I learned so much about Thoreau from reading this book.
I read this book in college, with a professor who has studied Thoreau's work for years. What an incredible experience-- reading it with him but also the piece itself!
