https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190445.The_Interpretation_of_Financial_Statements
In such a case the stock may be worth more than the earning record indicates, because a good part of the value is represented by cash holdings which contribute little to the income account.
This change in attitude was due in part to the frequent unreliability of the property-account figure, but it had separate justification in the fact that for the typical going business value does reside in earning power much more than in assets.We think the pendulum has swung too far in the direction of ignoring balance sheet values.
basic top down dissection of standard financial statements. pretty high-level, not of use to anyone who has taken a financial accounting course. however, hearing this information from the father of value investing can't hurt at all.
A lot has changed since the 1930s. This book is an example of how financial analysis ought to be taught in a concise manner. It's a good book to have around especially for the beginner. A quick read with a fantastic introduction.
به درد من که نخورد، یک سال پیش یک کلاس آشنایی با صورت های مالی و ترازنامه تویه کارگزاری مفید (ساختمون اطلس) شرکت کردم یه چیزهایی از حساب داری یاد گرفتم که انگار بنجامین گراهام هم تویه این کتاب بهشون اشاره میکنهبرای خوندن کتاب اینوستر اینتلجنتش هم خیلی تلاش کردم ولی هیچی نفهمیدم ازش، اصلاً بیانش و توضیحاتش رو بدرد بخور نمیبینم، از بنجامین گراهام خیلی تعریف شنیدم ولی تنها چیزهایی که ازش یاد گرفتم تویه دو کتاب زیر بوده نه کتاب معرفش اینوستر اینتلجتhttps://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...
It's an extra text to Security Analysis. It helps to understand and apply main concepts.
It's a book by Graham so it is a must be read.
Interesting to see the world from an accountant's perspective from 1937.
Still a great little reference book to have on your shelf.
Remember, Graham suggests in The Intelligent Investor to make regular investments to mutual funds and to stay away from individual stocks.
He suggests if you do plan to not go with the smart money then you need to read books such as this.
Then when you've learned your lesson go back to the smart money (mutual funds.)Honestly probably worth more 3 stars, but it is just a few pages.
At bottom the ability to buy securities-particularly common stocks-successfully is the ability to lookahead accurately. Looking backward, however carefully, will not suffice, and may do more harm thangood." Ben Graham - The Interpretation of Financial Statements pg. 76But it is all about looking past record in this book. Good in conjunction with other Graham's book - the intelligent investor.
Take an accounting class then read this book or read it while taking the class or just read it. In any case it will give you an understanding of a company's financial strength if you ever want to know something like that.
Best book on accounting I could ever ask for. More information in this quick read than in my entire collegiate financial accounting course.
Good for beginners
A very nice little book explaining what each term means in balance sheet and cash flow statement. Good for people who doesn't have accounting back ground
I like this book because of the clarity in the explanation of those financial terms. I guess, those terms are meant to be deceiving and confusing.
Good for someone who doesn't understands accounting. The books simplifies accounting principles. You can expect to understand I/S and B/S items.
A pretty basic, but nonetheless essential guide to understanding financial statements.
By studying the current state and the development of the balance sheet and income statement it's possible to understand the health of the business which, in turn, is essential for the firm’s future prospects.Benjamin Graham, the father of value investing, needs no further introduction.
In this book written before Graham's more influential books, Security Analysis and The Intelligent Investor, the authors describe how to understand a business and its health by studying the financial statements.A quote from The Interpretation of Financial Statements concludes the authors’ view on forecasting: "Of course, the success of an investment depends ultimately upon future developments, and the future may never be forecast with accuracy.
Market value is often higher than book value (net worth calculated from the balance sheet).
Conclusion: when analyzing a business in general or income statements, balance sheets, ..., the key thing to remember is always making comparison between figures, factors, calculating ratios (so many ratios!, but the important thing is to understand concepts and meanings of those factors (not to remember those ratios) then we can make up our own ratios when we need one) over a long-enough period of time and comparing with other business in the same fields.
I was a general manager at a subscription-based software company for years, and I have been recently looking to deepen my knowledge of and facility with accounting principles.I would not recommend this book as a primer or introduction to financial statements for managers.
remember I am a newbie to this!) a reasonable structure for evaluating a company and making sense of it all.Everyone seems to recommend this book in parallel with Graham's other works, The Intelligent Investor and Security Analysis: Principles and Technique, so I'll probably try to read those at some point in the next year and re-evaluate all three together.
I have no academic business background whatsoever, but I found this book when I read Graham's 'The Intelligent Investor'.
I read this book so that I could learn how to read financial statements, it seems like that is a prerequisite to fully understanding the 'The Intelligent Investor' and another book I want to ready by Graham, 'Security Analysis'.
I feel like 'The Intelligent Investor' sent me on a path backwards toward understanding because after reading this book, I think I need to take a few accounting classes to fully understand the information in Graham's books.

Quick but excellent overview of the various components of company financial statements. Graham also teaches how to calculate some important financial ratios and how to interpret them compared to the companies past and the other companies in its industry. Little advice is offered on how to use these metrics to value securities.
This book may seem to be a thin book compared to other financial books explaining financial statements but it contains much more information about financial statements than other similar books. And Ben Graham has explained the accounting terms, ratios and loopholes in a fairly layman way.
A quick read on the definitions of terms in the reports.Some good advice on the ratios and what they can mean. Even though I've been through couple of reports before, I've learned some new ways to read financial numbers from this book. Definitely worth few hrs.
A quick read. Good for overview but some points need more explanations.
Good thought but quite book
I'll give it 4.5 stars.
After reading this book I learned a lesson "never judge a book by its size".
It's a tiny book with basic accounting topics, but very well written, it explains the loopholes in the financial statements.
It also describes the complicated financial ratios in layman's terms.
For instance, "If a company showed a $2 million net income in its income account, but the balance sheet the end of the year did not show $6 million reserve which had existed a year previous, it might be reasonable to conclude that the company in that year had really lost $4 million."
A good and concise Accounting 201 for those interested. I wish to read it at least once more when I get better at Accounting 101. Fundamental analysis and how to interpret financial statements is discussed excellently by the legend. The language is slightly out of date and so are examples; however, the fundamentals are forever...
Embora a edição original seja de 1937, os ensinamentos deste livro ainda são úteis. Mostra de forma simples como analisar demonstrações financeiras, introduzindo conceitos de análise horizontal, análise vertical e análise de índices.
investasi......investasi,,,,,,investasi.,,,,
A must read
great primer
