https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70885.Play_the_Piano_Drunk_Like_a_Percussion_Instrument_Until_the_Fingers_Begin_to_Bleed_a_Bit
" she got up and lit a cigarette, she was trembling allover. she paced up and down, wild and crazy. she hada small body. her arms were thin, very thin and whenshe screamed and started beating me I held herwrists and then I got it through the eyes: hatred,centuries deep and true. I was wrong and graceless andsick. all the things I had learned had been wasted.there was no living creature as foul as Iand all my poems werefalse. "
In his poems, there lies a confident drunk, asleep at the wheel of life, seamlessly floating on by, content with distraction and apathy.
Other times, it was like listening to someone's drunk grandfather repeat what he did yesterday in his sad life.
It'll be three poems in a row that make you think Bukowski was given the keys of life and then it'll be three poems of Bukowski wasting your time like an old drunk at a bar.When he's good, he's goddamn glorious.

I finished this book in less than a day and I felt like a 3 year old who just had her lollipop taken away when it was done.
Each thing I read of Bukowski's is like revealing another piece of an unbearably complex puzzle.
Last night I had the house to myself and had set up my netflix so I could have the first in a series of Bukowski documentaries delivered.
Though in many ways Bukowski and I could not be more different, there are things that bump together that are so powerful that they overcome any differences.
I was genuinely hopeful for this one, "Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument Until the Fingers Begin to Bleed a Bit" is kind of an amazing title. Unfortunately the poems in this collection hardly even come close to measuring up to their title, which is a shame.
I read this when I was like 14. I thought he was brilliant.... turns out, not so much

there is nothing to dobut drinkplay the horsebet on the poem.i love the fact that bukowski's poems seem to tell a story, however gruesome that story may be. most of his poems revolve around alcohol/beers,  I am dying of sadness and alcohol ,cigarettes and love. however, bukowski has a somewhat uncanny perception of love,  I have, he went on, betrayed myself with belief, deluded myself with love tricked myself with sex . and I like it when they tell me;they are having luck with a man;luck with th
there is nothing to dobut drinkplay the horsebet on the poem.i love the fact that bukowski's poems seem to tell a story, however gruesome that story may be.
most of his poems revolve around alcohol/beers, 
I am dying of sadness and alcohol
and I like it when they tell me;they are having luck with a man;luck with their life;after surviving me;they have many joys due them;I make their lives seem better after me.
, but that's actually fine by me, it makes me sympathize with him more.there was no living creature as foul as I and all my poems were false
Though it's a slim volume of poetry, this book makes up for its size by packing a huge punch of brilliance.
Before picking up this book, I'd only read a few of Bukowski's poems and his novel Ham on Rye. This has definitely encouraged me to read more of his poems.
I'd recommend Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument Until the Fingers Begin to Bleed a Bit to anyone who is interested in giving Bukowski a shot.
Because of its small size, it won't matter if a person isn't a huge fan.
They won't be out much time or effort.
Just read Play The Piano Drunk Like A Percussion Instrument Until The Fingers Begin To Bleed A Bit by Charles Bukowski - yes, that's the title.. It's a book of his poetry - not for all; not sappy poetry that is, more like drunken Sailor's stuff.. I thought it was right up the alley with the rest of his literature, though I like his novels much better..
No more Bukowski for me, ever.
Not everything works, but when Charles Bukowski nails one, it's down.
¿Para qué leer toca el piano borracho como un instrumento de percusión hasta que los dedos te empiecen a sangrar un poco?1.
Por que Bukowski a través de estos poemas te muestra lo que es el naturalismo burlesco de las amistades y las relaciones amorosas.
3. El realismo sucio que maneja en sus versos nos ayuda a visualizar perfectamente como era su vida alcohólica desinhibida y cargada de traiciones, sexo desfrenado y soledad.
4. Este libro también nos aporta el conocimiento de como debe ser el carácter de un poeta y los momentos en que uno debe de escribir.

Perhaps the style of writing was not for me, but I was disappointed by the poetry. Among the mediocre poems were some gems, though, and I feel it was still worth the gander.
tho he is still plagued with romanticizing a very particular kind of decadence and has real backwards ideas about gender, Bukowski the poet is I think much more talented than Bukowski the novelist.
There's a real sense of cutting through the bullshit and honestly assessing life in these poems; he attacks the latter third of his life with the knowledge of the first 2/3rds, savoring the minor bacchanalias that sustain him while dismissing the bureacracies that want to infringe of that life giving freedom.
Bukowski is in many ways the poet laureate of the sticky floor and the rotten toothed.
The poet laureate of gum and jaw cancer and gout and getting drunk and nasty.
If that's your think, I kind of get it.
Over hyped misogynistic old drunk writes about bacon, factories, whiskey, farts, whiskey, being drunk, drinking, strippers, whiskey, his dad, his mom, and women. how he fucked women he loved how he fucked women he didnt love how he didn't fuck women he loved and how he didn't fuck women he didnt love and don't forget that everybody farts. if you want to read entire 3 page poems for a good line maybe, or boring short stories then this is your guy. If a person loves Bukowski for me it's a warning sign.
Después de ser un autor recomendado por varios conocidos fanáticos, tomé la decisión de leer Play the Piano Drunk. Es una obra interesante, pero supongo que habría impactado mucho más si lo hubiese leído en mis años de adolescente. Bueno como para leer más del autor, pero no logró encantarme. En algún momento podremos calificar con medias estrellas? Definitivamente es más que tres pero menos que cuatro
Many of these are timeless. A few have aged like milk. Reading Bukowski while female takes some patience.
Some gems are scattered amongst the poems assembled here. I'm surprised the lesser ones appeared while Buk was still living and writing, though, because they're fit for the company of those minor poems that make up most of his posthumous collections. Nevertheless, when he's on, he shines. His basic observations, brazen line-breaks and black humor will probably lead me to read everything he wrote, in search of those jewels.From the proud thin dying:it's the order of things: each onegets a taste of honeythen the knife.
Not my style. I can appreciate his sparse, stark, raw & ragged style of composition, but I prefer my poetry more poetic, the language more lyrical. This just seems like unremarkable prose chopped into blunt little lines like cocaine. And that doesn't magically transform it into poetry, in my humble opinion. I know he's supposed to be one of the greats, but what exactly is the talent here? I don't see any insightful observation, innovative ideas, interesting rhythm or subject matter, or whatever other artistic merits one may throw at the wall to see what sticks.
list of my favorite ones :A Little Atomic Bomb The Strangest thing2 flies The Ladies of summerThe Apple 5 dollarsBlue moon bleweew mooooon how i adore you ! (  the most funny one  )The killer smiles
This is my personal favorite of Bukowski's books of poetry. It has such a raw voice to it. So many of the poems in this collection are memorable. This is the book I pull out when someone tells me that they know poetry because they know the 'classics'.
Some of Bukowski's best, although most "raw", poetry. This is pure emotion from a decadent, masculine point of view. I am probably on my tenth reading.
"no había criatura viviente tan tonta como yo y todos mis poemas eran falsos". Maravilloso, como todo lo que leo de Bukowski.
The one take away from this is that if chuck can fall in love then there's hope for us all
Scholars won't touch Bukowski. He's inconsistent, he does a ton of things that don't work. some poems are just plain bad, but when he gets it (and he does a decent amount of the time) it's great.
Good collection of early Bukowski poetry
27* * *I smoked 2 packs of cigarettes today andmy tongue feels like acaterpillar trying to get out forrainwatersomebody is working overPictures at an Exhibitionwhile tiny pimples of sweatwork their way down myfat sides.too sick today and told the manover the phoneit was stomach pains.the pains in the ass too andthe soul?the gophers are undergroundstaring at pictures on mudwallsmachineguns are mounted in thewindows.40 cigarettes.what's walking aroundchewing grass,4 legs, nohands?it's not thepolitburo.it could be adonkey.
Seems like an interesting guyo, just give me a little atomic bombnot too muchjust a littleenough to kill a horse in the streetbut there aren't any horses in the streetI thought it's interesting to combine poetry and debauched, drunk, objectifying, smelly bachelor life.
his life.I stand in the kitchenhalfway to madnessdreaming of Hemingway's Spain"interviews", "face of a political candidate on a street billboard", "8 rooms" are sad, wry observations.
"hug the dark" is the only one that seems to have a 'message' and coincidentally is bad edgelord poetry containing the inert line "there is no god".It's neat he writes poetry and also listens to decent classical music—Scriabin, Ives, Mussorgsky—yet apparently led such a gross life.
