https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16069030-the-winner-s-curse
I also really enjoyed what we saw of the world building, though I do wish we got a little more depth there.
The societies of this world are so interesting, I'm really looking forward to exploring that more in the future books.
Characters were great, I loved the relationship and shifting dynamic between Kestrel and Arin, and I appreciated that they were both very smart (though one aspect of the ending frustrated me because it seemed like one of them wasn't acting at the top of their intelligence.) (view spoiler)[Come on, Arin!
Kat and I FaceTimed and chatted about our favorite parts, swooned over Arin, admired Kestrel's tenacity and wit, discussed the intricately woven theme of Bite and Sting, fangirled over Marie's prose and cried together over the heartbreaking ending because parting from this book and characters was such sweet sorrow.We knew this book was special so we did what any self-professed book nerd would do when they read an amazing book: We leveled up to Book Pushers and, as Gillian from Writer of Wrongs would say, started flinging this book at any and all of our blogger friends' faces.
There comes, on occasion, those moments in the lives of readers when they find themselves putting a book down, pausing, looking around at all the glowing reviews and five star ratings, and asking themselves the question...  did I read the same book?   When it comes to language, dialogue and general storytelling of small events in The Winner's Curse, it's obvious that you are in the hands of a competent writer with a talent for description and a nicely-spun phrase. But this book is so... tame. Wa
There comes, on occasion, those moments in the lives of readers when they find themselves putting a book down, pausing, looking around at all the glowing reviews and five star ratings, and asking themselves the question...
I wanted an interesting fantasy, but instead I got a dragged out tale of the forbidden romance that blooms between a Valori General's daughter and a Herrani slave.I will admit that the book starts to pick up in the last third (approx) but even that was way too little and far too late for me.
Those books that are light on the fantasy and heavy on the romance.
In the beginning of the book, we're led to believe that Kestrel is different from her conquering father.
*deep breath*Every single other slave except for Enai and Arin, the man Kestrel bought at the auction, remains faceless and nameless.
You see, the slaves revolt, and this book paints them as the bad guys because it's told from Kestrel's point of view.
Up until this point, I had held out a small glimmer that Kestrel might have a revelation, that when she was captured and forced to do a single degrading act, she would understand what the Herrani had faced on a daily basis.
ooooooh this was gooooood
Actual rating: 3.5 “A kestrel is a hunting hawk.”“Yes. The perfect name for a warrior girl.”“Well.” His smile was slight, but it was there. “I suppose neither of us is the person we were believed we would become.” The second half of this book was exceedingly better than the first. The first was plagued with a rather weak, insipid heroine, an asshat of a "slave" who, seriously, did not act like a fucking slave at all, more like the king of a castle. I disagree with slavery (no shit...like anyone
I disagree with slavery (no shit...like anyone in their right mind would ever admit to agreeing with slavery), but the point is that within a book, the role is there to be played, and the so-called slave in this book was more in control than any slave I have ever imagined.Furthermore, the first half of the book was plagued with feeeeeelings and a girl who---instead of wanting to be a fucking bad-ass soldier like her father hoped---merely aspires to...play the piano.Womp womp womp.To add further to the insults, there is a clichéd as all hell love triangle between a "brute," a dark, brooding, wild slave, and a handsome, blond-haired, affable young nobleman.-________-The Summary: Kestrel is the pampered daughter of a general in the Valorian army.
So I was so surprised when I found out this was about politics, (I knew this had slaves in it, but I had no clue about the country's enslavement and stuff), war, FUCKING HEARTBREAKING ROMANCE, forbidden love, strong heroine, politics, and Arin.
But in this book, though there wasn't much of it, the political aspect was super interesting and fun and I found myself wanting to read more about it and enjoying it very much.
○Kestrel is one of the most strong female characters ever and I love this girl so much.
I love Arin and Kestrel.
4.5 stars Love love love love love.
If you're a fan of Leigh Bardugo's Grisha trilogy or Diana Peterfreund's For Darkness Shows the Stars series, you need to get your hands on this one ASAP.
It has the feel of a historical fantasy without slotting neatly into either category, as well as a pensive mood and very romantic story.Full review on the blog, with a few quotes to give you a feel for the writing: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...And we're giving away an amazing prize package (book!
stickers!): http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...I was doubtful of the early raves, but I ended up loving The Winner's Curse.
Hello, I'm in the worst slump I've had this year and the only book I can read is this god given masterpiece. Yes, it was my ninth time reading this. Yes, I'm obsessed. Yes, I need helpHow do you even make a review of your favorite book in the world? You. just. fucking. don'tMy soul is crushed and broken on the floor. bye I need to smoke a pack of cig and cry like a baby. adios.
Sometimes the book lives up to the hype, and sometimes it doesn’t, but until THE WINNER'S CURSE by Marie Rutkoski, they were all what they were advertised to be—Fantasy.Encyclopedia Britannica Online defines Fantasy Literature as:Imaginative fiction dependent for effect on strangeness of setting (such as other worlds or times) and of characters (such as supernatural or unnatural beings).
It was completely devoid of the magic or fantastical aspect, and I'm sorry, but a cool map does not a fantasy make.That’s not to say I didn’t like it.
. .THE WINNER'S CURSE by Marie Rutkoski is the promising start of her new (half) fantasy trilogy.
This may not be a SOLID 5 stars, more like a 4.8, but it's SO CLOSE.MY HEART IS BREAKING INTO A MILLION LITTLE PIECES.I had heard great things about this book, but not from a ton of people so it wasn't overhyped for me. I didn't really know anything going in and I think that was for the best.Kestral and Arin are phenomenal characters and the story is really fantastic. It really shines in the second half when things are set in motion and we've got POLITICS and the like. GAH just SO GOOD. I can't handle it! GAHHHHDNCLEBEBZS
Al inicio pensé que no me iba a gustar, pero ahora sé que quiero leer el siguiente libro. YA. Review to come.
Rereading this for the third time felt so good! This is seriously such an underrated series. I adore the characters, the world, writing and the series just keeps getting better from here on out. ———————————IMPROMPTU MIDNIGHT REREAD DECISION WITH Nani! 💛Our fan-girling got the best of us and now we’ll be reunited with Kestrel and Arin AND WE’RE HYPE! 😭😭———————————
really did not get into this at all. :( I love the cover and formatting but the characters I found very distant
Kestrel is a Valorian and a very high ranked one as her father is a general.
Anyway, Kestrel was out gambling one day (she's pretty good at it) and her and her best friend, Jess end up at the slave market.
Kestrel ends up buying a slave because of reasons and a lot of it was a set up for, reasons.
Arin and Kestrel become friends, slowly but surely.
I mean good grief, these people don't have the lives they want, even though they are jerks for making slaves and killing people.
.I loved Kestrel, Arin, Jess and Enai.
“Kestrel thought about how this might be what hurt the most.That they had used something she loved against her."  Maybe I shouldn't judge someone or something by my first impression on them, but I can't help myself. So it's official that Marie Rutkoski becomes one of my top favorite authors and The Winner's Curse my top favorite books of all time. I can't stop admiring how wonderful her writing style and how incredibly well-written this story is. She tells the story in a pretty easy yet powerf
She knows how to use a secret or scandal against her opponents and at the same time, stealthily creeps into others' minds so that they’ll believe what she wants them to believe.
Then, the people will easily become pieces in the game she's determined to win in the end.Arin is a slave who defies orders and dares to stare into Kestrel's eyes head on with his own beautiful grey ones.
One last thing I really, really love about the book is that neither Kestrel nor Arin is avoiding each other or pushing the other away.
AHHHHHHHH. All the feels. Seriously
"You might not think of me as your friend,but I think of you as mine." - KestrelNow we have Arin out of everyone in this book, I honestly didn't know where he stood, he had me questioning things over and over again and that's what I think I liked so much about him.
I wanted to know so much more about his character, but really what did we know/find out about him?- There are so many open ended questions, will we find out what they actually mean orrrrr?!Overall I honestly really enjoyed this book, if I didn't already have the second book I would be weeping at that ending, how can it leave us there wanting to find out what happens next?!
I also didn't mind the fact that this book didn't focus on world-building as the story's setting can eerily be relatable to what our world has/is going through x) THE CHARACTERS:- our main female lead, Kestrel, was one that I found meh in the beginning but grew to quickly love her.
She is fierce without being conceited and all-round lovely, hella nice human being that deserves all the love in the world.
- our main male lead, Arin, was fdhhdfjkf from beginning to end.
He also deserves all the love in this world.
SO FAR, IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE IT'S GOING TO END NICELY sooooo???
And it goes without saying she, heck the entire book, would've been much more interesting had Rutkoski developed Kestrel as the kind of character who's uncomfortable living in a slaveholding society despite that world being the only one she knows, but that part of the book is so glossed over there's no tension there and makes the eventual role reversal when Arin's rebellion breaks out all the more ridiculous.
Felt a slight disconnect with the main character, but otherwise I loved it!
This was a book I wanted to give my full attention to and couldn't wait to review.
✨ (Sparkles to prove my magicalness, obviously.)• There's a PIANO PLAYING MAIN CHARACTER.
Like I want to be this girl??• We are blessed with a slowly developed romance and it made me all kinds of happy.• THERE'S A SUPER FABULOUSLY WRITTEN ROMANESQUE WORLD THAT HONESTLY HAD SOME OF THE BEST WORLDBUILDING I'VE READ FOR A LONG WHILE & IT MIGHT HAVE STOLEN MY BREATH AWAY ALONG WITH MY UNCAPITALIZED LETTERS.
SO THERE'S THAT.• This was also a book that made me stop what I was doing and read for hours on end.
2.5 starsI cannot put my finger on what didn't work in this book.
The writing was enjoyable, but something about the plot or characters or I don't even know what just lost me.
I wasn't necessarily bored, I just didn't care.
It may have been because I listened to this on audio, but I could not connect to the story.
The characters were meh, the plot was meh, and most of the book was just war plotting, which was so confusing because we got barely any backstory about the different kingdoms or whatever the two opposing sides were.
“The Winner’s Curse is when you come out on top of the bid, but only by paying a steep price.” Ok, so I don’t know what happened to this buddy read with Laura, but I’m just going to go ahead with this review as it’s been sitting here in RTC-mode since 19 August.
:D (I like to think that I’m mentally fit anyway, hahaha)If you know my bookish tastes at all, you could probably guess that the one aspect of the novel that I hated the most was the slavery trope.
Una historia muy dura, que me ha hecho sufrir como pocos libros lo han logrado, no tan sólo por lo imposible de la relación de los personajes principales, sino por la triste realidad de un pueblo sometido.La trama nos sitúa en la imaginaria península de Herrán, que diez años antes fuera invadida por el imperio de Valoria, y que ahora utiliza a los herraníes como esclavos de los nuevos habitantes de la península, los valorianos.En ese entorno comienza la relación ama-esclavo entre Kestrel y Arin, cuyos sentimientos comienzan a cambiar de forma tan pausada que ni ellos mismos se dan cuenta y, cuando lo hacen, intentan negar esas emociones que les es cada vez más difícil ocultar.
AND ARIN??
AND OH BOY MY HEART IS TORN 💔  Regret not picking this book up ages ago, it was just so damn intriguing y'all I'm not really into politics much but  Kestrel is literally a queen  gosh she has definitely become one of my favourites in just one book.
Can't wait to see where this story will lead and the extent to which it will wreck my heart 🙂-A certain  someone  who loves tim tams and Dorian's phantom hands a bit too much forced me to read this so here I am 🤗
I can't wait to review and share the absolute amazeballs that is this book!Steph and I still sit on FaceTime and gush about a couple of the scenes over and over again.
Wow this book exceeded my expectations! I am blown away. I loved Kestrel and Arin. I loved the strong political aspect of the book as well as the connection with music between the characters. Best book I've read so far this year
I'm normally a polygamist reader, but I just cannot let any other book get in the way of me continuing this potentially emotional trilogy.With the exception of its setting, The Winner's Curse is not fantastical.
:pThe best thing I liked about The Winner's Curse was its emphasis on political drama.
As an aspiring novelist, I would love to be mentored by Marie Rutkoski.I'm honestly having a hard time pointing out the weak points of this book.
I sympathized with his oppressed status in society, but I could not help but flinch at his insensitivity.In conclusion, The Winner's Curse gave me an emotional and memorable reading experience.
Screw old teachers who smell like a dusty closet.I PLAN TO READ AND EAT JUNK FOOD FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE.
But anyways, Kestrel, (the MC and my teacher when I grow up ;) is a pristine, wealthy lady.And OBVIOUSLY, there's gonna be some hot, dude with a tortured soul that appears in her life.Duh.........So off they go, facing troubles and all that stuff young teens do  while i'm sitting here, snacking on potato chipsJust.......WHY CAN'T THAT BE ME???!!!
i'm gonna be single potato forever.....The Winners Curse was a brilliant book, you should definitely try it out!!!
