https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865508.Verbal_Judo
Please note that my review is for the First; I have not read the Second, so please do not be discouraged from reading that because of my review.]This is material I need to recommend; I just can't recommend this book.
It's about communication, but the undertone is about lying and pretending to empathize in order to get people to do what you want:"The other person will believe you're trying to understand.
I'll hope that's it, and wish him well.There is important material in Verbal Judo: stuff that is critically important to know to lead a better life.
In my job working with psychiatric patients, words are important and can mean the difference between calming a volatile situation or blowing it up into something violent, unpredictable and dangerous.
He outlines a very simple program that stresses always keeping some emotional distance between yourself and your words; knowing your audience well enough to guess what might work and what won't; outlining exactly those phrases that intend to quell an intense situation but instead inflame it; and above all else, in most situations, will allow a person to comply with your wishes without losing face.Before even finishing the book, I had an opportunity one morning to put it into practice.
I was surprised however at how effectively Thompson's techniques worked to quiet the patient and quell the situation.So I'm sold.
As a professional working in the behavioral health field I was excited to get a text that utilized a practical rather than soley theoretical viewpoint.
I found neither a practical "street smart" or empirically based material in this book.
The stories about the hostage taker and the man who almost took his own life in a bath tub were horrifying.
It was not horrifying because of the way he laid out the narrative.
I was scared that he may have been so callous and misguided to speak to people in crisis the way he did.
The idea of utilizing empathy as a springboard in crisis is sound.
Dr. Thompson has worked as an English teacher, a police officer and a consultant.
This book discusses things not to say, dead end arguments, talking yourself into a corner, and, how to get things done without creating an enemy and using force.This book and its concepts are taught to police officers and teachers.
(I was directed to read it through a UCLA course in teaching.) It just might save you from a frustrating experience with a friend, loved one, co-worker, waittress, or complete stranger.
(In complete stranger are another subject I guess.)
The whole book felt like a big promotion to take the guy's seminar.
The actual helpful bits are scattered around and have to be gleaned while plowing through a lot of bragging and peacocking behavior.
A lot of what the guy tells you is common sense.
Maybe if you are a very angry male who has no idea why his wife wants to divorce him and his children think he's a jerk, then it could help.
But, then again, there are a lot of people like that out there so maybe this book was meant for them.
I read this because it was recommended by a friend because it had some good points.It does, however the good points could have been summed up in about 7 pages.
И тия промени бяха към по-добро.Това, на което те учи комуникацията с подобни хора в условията на затвора е скромност и смирение, в най-библейския смисъл на тия думи (всъщност, точно тогава почнах да разбирам за какво изобщо говори библията като ги споменава).
Ще страдаш в конкретния момент, ще страдаш в дългосрочен план и много ще страда психичното ти здраве."Словесно джудо - нежното изкуство на убеждаването" не е написана за нежни хора - написана е от бивш полицай и дава примери главно от неговата полицейска работа.
Kind of a repetitive book, but definitely helpful in laying out strategies for dealing with difficult people -- I wish I'd read it earlier; it's already been useful in dealing with difficult library patrons.
Okay - the practices are sound. The delivery leaves much to be desired.
Thompson (died 2011) trained in judo and aikido before becoming a police officer in his early 30s.
All people want a second chance when they make a mistake.Thompson took his verbal judo classes around the country to various police forces for training.
He notes that he was scheduled to train police in Los Angeles the week after the Rodney King beating, and wonders whether that situation would have been handled differently.In this book Thompson expands on the ideas for other areas of people's lives.
He has chapters on parenting, managing, marriage, and other areas in which you need to make your feelings known, have priorities, and want to communicate with others without escalating conflict.
Another recommendation from a fellow scholar of violence and, more importantly, avoiding violence.
I cringe when I see books that say things like "with my extensive training, you can trust that my advice will work for you." One of the first actual sentences in the book is this absolutist statement: "Verbal Judo can help in every profession and can greatly enhance our personal lives." Hmm...
He explains about wimps: "When I’m teaching Verbal Judo and I hear people mutter, 'That’s a bunch of garbage,' I don’t let it pass.
Basically, "verbal judo" boils down to good use of interpersonal communication, things like empathy and paraphrasing so both parties understand each other.
Yadda yadda yaddah....
Well, this was an experience.I grabbed this book off the Audible sale a few days ago.
Right off the bat, I want to say that there were some excellent suggestions and tips.
I'm glad I read this book.However...This dude is basically an 80s movie cop that frequently quotes the Samurai 'masters' while being an expert in communications in the fields of law enforcement, teaching, parenting, sales, and a host of other things.
You can look it up...Wait, don't do that!Like I said, some good stuff, but there is a lot of BS and repetition and redundancy and saying the same thing.
Kesinlikle herkesin okuması gereken bir kitap... Yıllar önce bir arkadaşımın hediyesi olan bu çok değerli kitabı neden senelerdir okumamışım diye çok düşündüm, ne çok şey kaçırmışım meğer... İçinde herkesin alacağı dersler olan bir kitap, iletişim becerinizi bir kaç adım öteye geçireceğinden emin olabilirsiniz. Şiddetle tavsiye ederim :)
This book has a lot of examples and techniques for having conversations in extremely confrontational situations, like with criminals/culprits, angry customers, and difficult coworkers.
The author gives alternatives to all these statements (let me try to explain this, the reason for this decision is..., I'm not comfortable talking about this, sorry I would like to help but I can't, it's going to all right, talk to me, it's important you understand this so let me say it again, and let me see if I understand your position).
It's more important to be effective than to be right in a conversation.
No matter how many books I read on the subject they never cease to amaze me. People are complicated, you and I are complicated too. Our instincts are primitive and we should not resort to them when crafting our responses.The book is short but dense. Took me awhile, I had to take breaks after each chapter.
I loved this book. There is nothing new; it is full of common sense, but it is written in a way that made me continuously reflect on my common responses as a middle school teacher, a family member, a human. It helped me make new goals, gave me concrete skills to implement, and will definitely be reread enough times that responses become natural, professional, and empathetic.
This is a quick read - relatively easy to grasp, uses a lot of acronyms, details concrete concepts, and overall communicates the message with anecdotes instead of complicated data. These are all very practical concepts you can start applying right now! I recommend this book to anyone who works with people, especially to people who carry a gun to work.
Excellent book on thinking before you speak!
(The officers were actually scheduled to take Thompson’s Verbal Judo class shortly after the incident, if only it had been scheduled earlier.)In a nutshell, Thompson teaches you to treat people with dignity and respect.
This not only helps reduce conflict, but allows you to be influential with others, gain more from people, have better relationships, and generally be happier with all of your interactions with others.I read this book a long time ago, and just recently read it again for a refresher.
Obviously, going from English professor to cop is not your typical career move, and the entire book has that kind of unexpected juxtaposition of (for example) jumping back and forth between Greek philosophy and responding to domestic abuse calls.The main idea of the book was empathy: "Effective communication begins and ends with your ability to see yourself as you are seen." More than anything else, I was impressed that Thompson managed to go out and sell that message to cops, who are not the audience I expect to be super open minded about empathy.
Thompson writes his book for simple minded (me) audiences. Great quick read that provides a few unique methods when dealing with different personality types. I would call this book much more practical than many in the same field. He focuses on actual techniques and provides useful examples to bring home the point. Currently reading Instant Rapport by Michael Brooks, which provides a more scientific and psychological approach to gaining rapport.
It's an emergency mitigation plan for your tongue.What I can also appreciate is that there are solid principles of communication and persuasion that are laid out in a way which allows them to be transferred from the mitigation perspective (the tone I think the book was written in) to the creation/foundation of communication that improves relationships (the tool more commonly sought after).If you are aren't in the market for communication battle drills, this book may not be for you.
However, if you are looking to build mental muscle memory to smooth out sticky communication situations I'd definitely recommend it.
I listened to the audio version of this book.
Note to self (and you), don't listen to self help books on audible, because I will want to highlight the book and write in the margins.
The start of the book is slow, lots of great stories about why you need to change your verbal ways.
Later, the book gets into practicalities and ideas to try.
This is a great book to help me with my students, and I will try to get a professional development session for the staff at my school centered on this material.
Some good tips on Respoding and not reacting. Else most of the things he said are taught by our parents, Only which, we forget with time.
I placed this 6th on the list but Thompson says that if you take nothing else from the book always remember to practice empathy.7 - Practice Active Listening: probably the most difficult part of conversation for many people.
. ." This serves the dual purpose of showing that you are taking things seriously and priming the audience to listen to you.8 - Maintain Credibility: be knowledgeable of what you are discussing.
Trust me, there is a lot more in the book but I think training yourself on these principles alone would give you a good head start.
This book is written by a police offers who trains officers in dealing with difficult people.
I’d sure like to think there is.When someone has an objection that you have no answer for, deflect it like this: "Well I appreciate that but let’s not make that an issue that gets in the way of this ."Great example of a police officer defusing a situation by showing empathy by talking to a mom whose son he's arresting.
Listen, instead of you staying up all night, get some rest , come down to the police department in the morning, bring your friends, bring a lawyer if you want.
I don't know who the intended audience is here, but it seems to consist of people whose response to a difficult spouse is "Oh yeah, well let's just get a divorce!" or customer service representatives who look you straight in the eye after a dumb question and intone, "Moron." But that doesn't mean his tactics don't make sense.
Thompson says about two-thirds through it, if not earlier, that the responsibility for effective communication lies with the speaker, not the listener, and then repeats that old saw (which I first heard in the Karate Kid of all places) about how there's no such thing as a bad student or class, only a bad teacher.
And I’ve finished yet another book on effective communication.Guess what I’m doing in a few hours?Starting a new one.It’s not like I’m learning something new but I’m rewriting many beliefs and ideas about how to deal with people.
This book is mostly about dealing with difficult situations and with people who don’t really want to deal with you.It’s like “Crucial Conversations”, although the tone and approach is mostly for defusing conflict.
I have already learned that it’s impossible to win an argument or a verbal fight so having a tool I can use is welcomed.Just read the book.
