https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93371.Akira_Vol_1
Akira: And A Boy Shall Rule Them All... Badly. A Boy Whose Head Contains A Supernova  'Akira' and 'Lone Wolf and Cub' were among the first complete manga masterpieces to be published in English, and despite the mirror-imaging, were very similar to their original tankobon incarnations. Katsuhiro Otomo's SF-classic 'Akira' -- as well as it's equally brilliant predecessor, 'Domu' -- revolutionized Japanese comics. It introduced realistic, incredibly detailed artwork that merged a far more subtle m
The importance of 'Akira' is difficult to express, but it certainly rivals US contemporaries 'Watchmen' and 'The Dark Knight Returns', and it ran far longer than either title, giving it an epic scope and grandeur that exceeds both of those seminal works.
The film contains less than 15% of the super-epic that inspired it, but the art, the characters, the basic plot, and the light-speed pacing will all be unmistakably familiar.On a Technical Note: While I prefer the original right-to-left orientation for translated manga, Kodansha is still using the Dark Horse translation that appeared before Japanese formatting surprised the hell out of US publishers by catching on.
3.4 stars.For fans of: hijinks; ominous foreboding.Avoid if: you’re sensitive about being bald.
Since I had seen the film as a child and made it my first DVD purchase when I got my laptop (one of the few breaks in the long anime hiatus of my college years), the pull of this book was strong.Otomo is one of those preeminent figures in comics--like Moebius or Tezuka--who both as artist and writer revolutionized the way comics looked and felt, and the ways they told stories.
If I hadn't seen the film version of Akira way back in the late eighties, at a midnight screening at our local Indy theatre (run by the crazy Swede my Dad hated for selling us a nicked table), and if I hadn't watched it repeatedly over the next twenty some years, I'd have read this manga this week with complete disdain.
The characters are all lame in some way, one dimensional and boring: Tetsuo and Kaneda are impossible to empathize with or like, the kids being experimented on are lame, the Colonel is all yankee action movie bluster, Kei -- the hyper-capable love interest -- has become an overdone stereotype.

First published in 1982, the comic predates the film by 6 years though interestingly both were created by one man, the visionary artist Katsuhiro Otomo, who was an astoundingly young 28 years old when this book was first published, meaning he’d written/drawn this epic story at an even younger age!
I realise Akira is a 6-volume story and it’s altogether possible that Otomo’s setting up Kaneda in the first book as this immature prick at the beginning of his arc and ends with him completely changed for the better, but the way the character is written doesn’t make me want to invest any more time in reading the rest of this series.
If you are reading this review, there might be a possibility that you may have watched the movie and probably thinking if it is just a condensed version of the manga.
Key plot points in the comics are also there in the movie so that the latter does not deviate that much from away the source material, but I feel that you are missing too many things in the film.
Like Kaneda and Tetsuo are BFFs, Kei is a sort of love interest to Kaneda, you have the "children" and their look-out-for-each-other vibe.Bike bros.
I can hardly say after reading just volume 1 of six.
everything makes sense here, the transitions from one scene to another go smoothly (the anime has a flaw in this regard), character design works better, the characters themselves, especially minor ones, are actually given some characterization and time to develop hence the increase of the emotional impact certain scenes had on me (MY BOY YAMADA MAN.
overall, very nice so far, I think that reading the manga before/after watching the anime is actually a requirement if you want to really understand what the author really meant by all of...this.
so I just watched the iconic movie for the first time and whilst it’s undoubtedly a groundbreaking masterpiece I still found it quite hard to follow the plot.
A lot of the tropes are familiar -- post-destruction-of-tokyo, teen rebellion, ill-advised tapping of uncontrollable power -- but this distinguishes itself in a lot of ways: -Though originally serialized like most manga, it's almost impossible to tell -- the plotting seems that cohesive and fully-thought-out, each episode interleaving with others and progressing the plot with inescapable momentum.-Well-developed characters.
It's not unnecessary action, exactly, I just wouldn't mind seeing these things developed in other ways.Anyway, this is good.
3.5 - 3.75 StarsThis is a review of this first volume .
It's about two friends Kaneda and Tetsuo who become enemies after an accident gives Tetsuo psychokinetic powers .
This first volume is extremely fast paced and action packed .
This volume deals with the accident which causes Tetsuo to gain psychokinetic powers and his descent into madness .
And how his friend Kaneda tries to stop him from causing any more mayhem .
And then there is the sub plot with military people and rebels , about Akira , which is some source of power .
I would say my favorite manga-type series I've read in the last few years is Urasawa x Tesuka's Pluto (Urasawa's adaptation of Tesuka's Astro Boy), which is emotionally engaging, full of suspense, with carefully orchestrated drama, and a rich and complex set of characters.
That's more the kind of thing I'm looking for.So, I doubt I'll read the rest of Akira, but I'm very glad to have had the experience of reading this first book in the series.
An important book in the history of manga if not one that I fully appreciate.
4.5-5 starsAt 2:17P.M. on December 6th, 1992, a new type of bomb exploded over the metropolitan area of Japan.9 hours later World War III began.38 years later became Neo-Tokyo.Several teenagers (trouble making friends) end up at the old bomb site and one of them crashes into an unknown, wrinkled looking kid with 'special abilities', and then the story gets rather crazy.
Mais até do que no anime, os temas de aniquilação nuclear e sobrevivência pós-apocalíptica são explorados até suas últimas consequências.Mas nessa minha última releitura da saga, com um olhar mais amadurecido, reconheci novos elementos na narrativa, e considero Akira como sendo uma história que lida com temas muito ligados à experiência japonesa da Segunda Guerra Mundial, sua singularidade como o único povo atingido por uma bomba nuclear (o que explica os temas recorrentes de destruição apocalíptica, o topo do monstro gigante destruindo tókio, etc.) e do período pós-guerra.O mangá é bem diferente do anime, apesar de compartilharem os mesmos personagens, terem cenas e até temas em comum.
Lots of action based in a Tokyo post WWIII. The Government is up to something, there is a gang trying to stop something and a band of juveniles who are taking something. I assume this is the first in the series that will get better and better with the first one leaves a lot of dangling questions.
VALUE SECTION: 10/10 Analysis: Historical Value 3/3, Rereadability 3/3, Memorability 4/4 Amongst the most classic manga titles of all times, Akira has passed in history as one of the best dystopian/apocalyptic titles of all times, not only because of its detailed artwork but also because of its themes, angst-ridden characters, and grotesque action/transformation scenes.ART SECTION: 8/10 Analysis: General Artwork 2/2, Character Figures 1/2, Backgrounds 2/2, Readability 2/2, Visual Effects 1/2 I must say I am amazed.
This strange sci-fi dystopian manga takes place in Neo-Tokyo, a thriving city built from the ruins of Tokyo after World War Three.
But Tetsuo and Kaneda, two punk teens in a biker gang, find themselves caught up in government corruption, scientific experimentation, paranormal power and frightening secrets when they encounter the obscure truths of Akira.
Just who or what is Akira?
Well, this first volume is much more detailed than the 1988 animated film adaptation, to say the least, and it was incredibly fast-paced and gripping; I'm going to be reading the next few volumes soon as well to find out just how in-depth it gets.
definitely a book worth reading!
Visualmente espectacular, se lee en un suspiro y la historia, oscura y vertiginosa, está muy bien planteada.En este tomo pasan muchas cosas y parece que ya se encarrila toda la trama, así que me da a mí que en los próximos tomos habrá mucho relleno, en todo caso, continuaré porque este tomo me ha resultado muy entretenido y para mi, después de haber visto la película unas cuantas veces, esta es una de mis cuentas pendientes en el mundo del cómic en general y del manga en particular, además como consigo los tomos en la biblioteca sale gratis.
Not too into it. The action is great, but so far that’s the only thing I’m impressed with. None of the characters had a chance to develop or catch my interest. I don’t know what the plot is supposed to be about. Too many whacky hijinks for such serious subject matter. Too vague and a little too heavy on foreshadowing.I’ve never seen the film, but I’ve heard some pretty fantastic things about this series. I’m willing to read on.
Wow. Amazing read! Crazy thrill! Sci-fi action with smartass teens. A government cover up after WW3. Kids evolving with superpowers and numbered, this covers number 42. I have no doubt Stranger Things found inspiration from this. A young lady at work recommended this to me. Worth every penny. I read it in three sittings, and found it a bit confusing. I plan to read it again in one sitting, which I recommend doing.
It encompasses at least two Apocalypses, it grapples with huge themes and issues, leaves the reader to do much of the heavy lifting, demands multiple readings, and is just insanely detailed and beautiful.
Often such carefully rendered art smothers its subjects and themes, but not here.
This is a must read for anyone interested in comics, and further than that, for anyone invested in the questions: "What are we capable of?" "What are we doing?" and "What will save us now?"Great stuff, deep and broad as the ocean.
I had to debate myself about whether I should really rate this book at all.
That is because I am not really rating it on its content, at least not on the content as it was meant to be accessed.
I am blind and downloaded this book from OpenLibrary.org.
They have scanned many books and protected Daisy versions are available for print impaired people.
However, I did make my way through the whole thing even if I made no sense of it and when I finished it I found that I did not like it.
3.5 starsI haven't read any Manga before so this is new to me and it did take a bit of getting used to - I did get a bit lost in places. I think I need to pay more attention to the pictures rather than relying on the words for all the info as I would normally.I enjoyed it though and will order volume 2 from the library right now!
The symphonic suite of Yamashirogumi added much grit to the vibes of neo-Tokyo in the adaptation and due to some other factors and scenes, I think the movie was better. Nonetheless, the adrenaline rush here.
Desde el arte y la historia, Akira es frenesí entintado.
Wer oder was ist Akira?Diese Frage wird in diesem Band leider nicht geklärt, dafür bekommt man eine äußerst dichte, sehr atmosphärische Geschichte präsentiert.
"Neuromancer" meets "A Clockwork Orange", und ein guter Schuss "Blade Runner" ist auch mit drin - eine sehr gelungene Mischung.
Bereits nach wenigen Seiten ist man in der Geschichte drin und wird immer tiefer hineingezogen.Die Zeichnungen unterstützen den Erzählfluss und stellen eine heruntergekommene, gespaltene Gesellschaft in einem fiktiven postatomaren Japan dar, die sehr glaubwürdig wirkt - Drogen, Motorradgangs, eine anonyme Masse die durch eine hart durchgreifende Militärpolizei kleingehalten wird.
The "edgy" antisocial vibe hasn't aged particularly well, but the art is timeless. Otomo draws bodies in motion better than any other cartoonist I can think of, and the extended chase sequence in the middle of this volume is an absolute masterpiece. I'm excited to keep reading this series, and hoping it develops more of the political/moral/emotional weight that's hinted at underneath the layers of nihilist chic.
Awesome art, incredibly fast-paced. I read it in one sitting, but it kept me tense the whole time. Watching the movie before reading it is a must, in order to understand all the craziness going on.
Definitely worth reading for graphic novel junkies.
Otomo's style is cinematic, has action-packed flow, and full of stark visual contrast - which is great because sometimes manga is crowded and difficult for my eyes to process.
I'm glad it's in the original 8.5 x 11" magazine printing, which is way better than the standard paperback book size manga is often collected in here in the US.
Akira was definitely begging to be made into an anime, which I currently haven't seen.
It has a great sci-fi conspiracy set-up, unfortunately at the expense of well-defined characters.
Will definitely try Vol. 2, and the film.
I want to reread it again, just to catch the details-- the first time through I was just riding the wave of exhilaration.Kaneda is an interesting protagonist because he's such a typical villain-- he's a gang leader who disrespects the women around him, deals amphetamines and causes mayhem.
He just sticks himself into compromising situations, grabbing things that look valuable to gain leverage without ever understanding why.
He's attractive and charismatic and popular, and always 'has to be in charge', as the villain of this volume scowls resentfully.
Looking forward to the next volume.
4.5Que. Maldita. Movida. Osea, mira que ya la película de por si es una movida impresionante, y supongo que eso era lo que me estaba esperando, pero me ha sorprendido ver que son bastante diferentes ya desde el principio (yo pensaba que solo difería el final). De verdad que, incluso sabiendo más o menos par de cosas que me esperan, no tengo ni idea de que está por venir, y estoy impaciente por saber cómo continuará.
