https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395875.Dark_Reunion
This is the finale of the series and it ended with a bang.
I loved the ending of this series, so much more than the last book.
This is a well-written series and I highly recommend it to the ages 14 and up.
The Twilight series is actually for a more mature audience, especially the last book.
In this book it's called "Dark Reunion," because there is a reunion.
It's very popular to keep a diary at a young age, especially young girls.
This last and final book of the main series was suspenseful and really good.
Read this in high school and really enjoyed it! That's about all I can remember.
1. I like the dynamic of the group minus Elena.2. I think this is Damon's best book. He gets the most screen time and we get to see a touch—just a touch—of sensitivity.3. Stefan gets a little more ruthless in this book. That's hot. But he's also the most insufferable here, which negates the added hotness.
Ninguno de ellos pronuncio una palabra." Este libro es excelente.Me gustó mucho el libro, y el final que le da a la saga, es tanto esperado como inesperado en algunos aspectos.La forma en la que van pasando los acontecimientos me parece buena; y como van ligando lo que pasa en el presente con sucesos pasados me parece un buen detalle.Me gustó el hecho de que se centraran un poco mas en otros personajes y no tanto en los principales, porque así pudimos conocerlos de forma distinta.
Algo que no me gustó es la actitud de Bonnie hacia Caroline, porque esta última no le había hecho nada a Bonnie y ella la trata mal, y se pasa todo el tiempo diciendo que Caroline no tiene imaginación y que es tonta, como si eso fuera un crimen.
In my reviews thus far for The Vampire Diaries, I've neglected to mention how undeniably spooky they can get.
Especially if read at night, in the dark.
And Dark Reunion only upped the fright factor.
The end was modestly far-fetched, but it worked well enough within the series’ mythology to just go with; why the heck not?
Since Smith is so fearless and willing to mame or kill off characters, it only seems fair to allow her one concession: bringing one very special girl back from the (un)dead.
Overall, another fun read.
I’m totally addicted to these characters and their story.
After reading the last Vampire Diaries book, I wasn't sure that I wanted to continue with this series.
If you have read my reviews on the other books, you know that I am not too fond of her character.
In this book, it is even more of Stefan being, well...
I could write my own book on his character and how much I love him.
L.J. Smith does an amazing job at character development with Damon.
I have said it before and I will say it again, he is BY FAR one of my favorite characters in any book, Ever!
I was thinking that the ending would be another one that I'd be totally dissatisfied with(*cough cough* "Pearl of the Soul of the World" from the 'Dark Angel Trilogy' *cough cough*), but it's refreshing to see that love can WIN!
Either way, if you like vampires and want an interesting read, then you absolutely need to pick up this saga.The imagery L.J Smith uses is totally amazing.
When you read the cover of the book, you read about Stefan, Damon, and Elena and you don't see as much as you should, I think.Also, I thought the ending was a little rushed.
I think the first book was my favorite, but I totally loved Damon in the second one.
I think this is my favourite one so far.
Its just a coincidence Elena isn't in this one.
Its not because she is gone that I like it.
I like Elena, but Dark Reunion is the most intense so far.
It has the most going on and it is very exciting.
Meeting the original Klaus.
I tried to picture Joseph Morgan, but it was difficult.
They don't really explain a lot, including character motives.
And then at the end, wtf happened?
It was kind of a big deal and they didn't explain how it happened at all.
Now this is a book that deserves the DNF I'm giving it.
I just shouldn't have continued on from the first book, but I had hope it would get better.
But this book just started off super bloody confusing.
I don't even remember what happened in #3, which doesn't make sense as I read it legit the same day that I started this book (I think).
Decided to get rid of the physical books I have of this one, regardless of how much I love the TV show.
I hated these books.
3.5 stars
Lo que mas me sorprendió de este libro es la manera en la que la autora saca respuestas de rincones que antes parecían superfluos y sin importancia, ademas del desarrollo que les brinda a cada uno de los personajes, sacándolos de su zona de confort mientras en medio de todo ello, se presenta algunas escenas que cierran algunos conflicto y tensiones entre integrantes el grupo principal, así como fortaleciendo otras riñas.Hay muy poco que decir en cuanto a las ambientaciones, pero la trama va tan de un misterio a otro que es casi imposible reparar en ello, al igual que dejar de leer.El punto de vista de Bonnie me pareció tan fluido, chistoso e interesante que quisiera que todos los libros siguientes fueran narrados por ella, y es que decirlo Elena parecía ser la que estorbaba en las anteriores entregas.
Oh c'mon! First 100 pages are boring, and other 25 are stupid! :S And at the end even Elena is alive...oh please, give me a break! -.-'
OMG! This made me cry. Stefan's love for Elena was so deep, I guess no one can understand that. But still mystery is that how will Elena falls for Damon?
It was refreshing to have the different POV and actually made me a tiny bit excited to be finishing the series, but then it continued to improve off of that.
One of my main problems with the other three books was there wasn't any action.
It would build up to something big and then last for a little bit before ending leaving me in a constant state of disappointment.
There was always something going on and the build up didn't feel like this moment of "I've been reading for just that to happen?" Now, that doesn't take away the other problems I have with the writing.
Hey...just how the heck did Elena come back to alive?Did I miss anything??
Apparently L.J. Smith could not leave well enough alone and made a fourth book, and yes, I read it though none of the first three were any good.
It just goes to show that nothing is ever so bad that it can't get worse.This book picks up six months after the final death of Elena and is told from Bonnie's point of view.
Perhaps they only read the back of the cover of the book and thought (like me and so many others) "this seems promising".
I will begin by saying: No, I do not watch the T.V. show, nor am I at all interested in it.I am not an avid "boob-tuber."Back to the Vampire Diaries series review: I feel in love with these books many years ago when I was still in high school.
I am now 29 years old and to this day I feel the fondness with which I still remember the ending to this series and have absolutely loved it.I have not read the semi-recent revival books that L.J. Smith has written.
1 for Stefan. 1 for Damon, Matt and Meredith.It was all Bonnie and Stefan. Though I am happy for the later one, (he finally *somewhat* acted like a hero) Bonnie was annoying. She had always been. The writer had tried to replace her with Elena maybe. Or maybe the book was written in her honor. Anyhoo, she never deserved this much attention. The only thing she did was behaving like what in Stefan's case was  a typical stupid human  having her eyes all the time on Damon and a little bit on Stefan a
1 for Damon, Matt and Meredith.It was all Bonnie and Stefan.
Though I am happy for the later one, (he finally *somewhat* acted like a hero) Bonnie was annoying.
The writer had tried to replace her with Elena maybe.
Or maybe the book was written in her honor.
The only thing she did was behaving like what in Stefan's case was 
having her eyes all the time on Damon and a little bit on Stefan and Matt too.
Meredith and Damon deserved more scenes than Bonnie.
They were strong and Damon was actually the protagonist.The 
He should have come in book 3.
Ok-since I have already reviewed previous books in this series, I will keep this brief.What I liked: Bonnie's POV on this story.
I still like the pace the the series for a quick read.What I did not care for: Still a lack of character depth and writing style could use more detail for the age group.
The writing style is for that of an elementary child.
I heard the return series for this is even better than the first trilogy.
This was an ok read once for fun but I feel it was lacking quality.
Could read without dropping it but not interesting either.. Reading this book reminded me again how much better the TV show is compared to the books..
This only gets a 3 because I enjoyed how it ended. The TV series is defiantly better, I really didn't like how the characters where portrayed in these books, other than Damon and Bonnie everybody else was so different from the TV series and honestly the TV show made sooo many improvements 😂
Okay. Were they good? No. Was I entertained? Yes. No regrets.
Well more of a 3.5 or so but liked this one too.
Lot of supernatural items this time around and it's fun seeing book Tyler as an out and out villain and a mysterious villain is again afoot in Fell's Church that's Mystic Falls to the people who have only seen the show.Bonnie and Meredith are missing Elena and with Bonnie they are able to contact Elena and then starts the book.
And back they come.I liked the action and since it was again a smallish book it was a quick read.Nice I now jump on to the next part, you should also keep on reading.

Re-reading this series as an adult, I was a little less enamored of it than I had been as a teen.
But, it was never my favorite L.J. Smith series, anyway.I am convinced that, were these characters real and I had to deal with them in my high school, I would have despised our series heroine, Elena, and steered clear of her group of minions.
Let's face it, though, we don't read books for the sake of comparisons to reality.
At least, not vampire books.
And it's not a feminist's nightmare, like some vampire books are.Speaking of other books, stop comparing this series to Twilight.
I soon watched the TV-Series (both 1st and 2nd season) even before reading the books.
In fact, when I eventually decided to read the books I got disappointed.
I usually love the books much more than the TV-Series because books are full of descriptions about the inner self of each character and situation, giving glimpses of backgrounds which allows me to better understand their nature.
This time instead, the turn of events, the script, the characters and their behaviours were fabulous on screen but not so amazing in the books.Overall, it was an almost good reading but my interest stops here with this book and I have no intention, for the moment, to go further.
Bene, ed anche questo capitolo del Diario del Vampiro è andato.
Bene, a questo punto devo dirverlo...
mi sembra veramente assurdo iniziare una saga di libri dove il PRIMO è il più scadente e dove tutto gli altri sono un crescente continuo di suspance e intrighi.
Benchè sia una collana scritta per i più giovane e TOTALMENTE differente dai vampirucci della Meyer (ho amato anche quelli anche se in modo differente) il libri di L.J.Smith sono una continua sorpresa.
Gli avvenimenti accadono sempre uno di seguito all'altro in modo imprevedibile ed intricati in incastri perfetti ma che, sinceramente, non avresti mai immaginato.
I hate myself for this, but I watched the television series first.
With the books I hated most of the characters from book one, and only continued on because I’d been brought the first four books (yeah, I do love to subject myself to torture).If I read this comment from another person I would probably roll my eyes, yet in this situation the television show is so much better.Seriously, I have never hated a main character so much – and it only gets worse as the series goes on.I’m glad this was the last book I owned in the series as I lost my temper with this one.
3.75!
First we start off with this weird dream sequence from Bonnie, in which she meets up with the (view spoiler)[now dead Elena (hide spoiler)] in what is basically a tea party (...what?) and is warned that "something/someone is coming, and they're really powerful, and you can't stop them, and please do THIS THING HERE to get help" and just...
The lights go out, someone's after them, and (view spoiler)[Sue ends up dead after being thrown through a window by the "mysterious big bad" (hide spoiler)] and then y'know...
