https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153542.Mike_Mulligan_and_His_Steam_Shovel
It made me smile to see them again.But I paused when I found "Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel." This is a classic children's book that was originally published in 1939.
I think I first read it during a visit to my grandparents' house, and it brought up some bittersweet memories.It's the story of a construction worker named Mike, who names his steam shovel Mary Anne.
But soon no one wants a steam shovel anymore -- Mike and Mary Anne had been replaced by diesel and electric motors.
Mike is determined to find work, and he tells the city leaders he can dig the cellar for their new town hall in just one day.
Mike Mulligan has been my most favorite book ever since I was in grade school. There was no other book that thrilled me like this one. I loved the illustrations, I can still see that last picture and it still warms my heart. Everyone should read this. My sister and I discussed this book and the fond memories of it on our birthday cruise.I guess the cool nights reminded us of the Steam Shovel.
“Mike Mulligan and his Steam Shovel” is a memorable children’s book by Virginia Lee Burton and it is about how a man named Mike Mulligan tries to prove to everyone that his steam shovel, Mary Anne, can dig up a huge cellar for the new town hall in one day.
Virginia Lee Burton’s illustrations are just simply beautiful and colorful and I really loved the image of Mary Anne herself as she looks like an old, fashioned steam shovel and yet has a somewhat human expression as you see her smiling on every page.
It would take a hundred men at least a week to dig the cellar for our new town hall." ) Henry and the townpeople are swayed when Mike promises that "If we can't do it, you won't have to pay."The citizens of Bangerville and Bopperville, Kipperville and Kopperville plus all the people from Popperville come out to watch Mike and Mary Anne work hard under the hot sun.
Mike Mulligan can be the janitor, the steam shovel will keep the building warm in the winter, they won't have to buy a new furnace (Henry B.
What the hell?Anyway, that grasshopper was the classic Crammer who learns a lesson about not doing all his work at the last minute.Mike Mulligan is like that too.
If your financial life rides on one work day, you should probably spend less time steam-shoveling and making steamshovel-related bets and spend more time MAKING MONEY.As much as Mike Mulligan is a classic character, there's an even more popular children's character in this book: The Unmitigated Asshole.Henry B.
Some guy shows up to my town and says he'll dig a foundation in a day, what do I care if he uses a steam shovel?
Dopest book ever. Better than 50 shades or potter. Will read every day. 10/10
I remember making my mom read this to me every night before going to bed. A Classic!
Childhood favorite, I remember hearing this on the Captain Kangaroo show and loving it ever since, not only because the steam shovel's name is Mary Anne (spelled the same way as my name.)
So that's what they do, and Mike Mulligan and Mary Anne live in the cellar and everyone goes to visit them and tell stories.Even as a kid I found this story sad, even a bit depressing, though I also loved it and kept coming back to it (I may have been a girl, but I was more interested in cars and tractors and things like that, than dolls - in fact, I had no interest in dolls at all, especially those horrid baby ones that wee when you feed them, I thought that was a useless, boring idea for a doll and I didn't like the way toy companies were trying to make my into a mummy at the age of four!
It was used as a read-aloud by teachers who wanted to show us that hard work gets you what you want, and of course Mike had to go to smalltown USA to find a good home for himself and his shovel.
He also missed Mrs Beaman's repeated advice to "plan ahead before you get started and make sure you have everything you need!" And that was in second grade, folks!If you like books by authors such as Robert McCloskey you'll enjoy this.
Small children might find it a good read-aloud, though they won't know what a steam-shovel is or how it could be converted into a boiler.
A children's book that still kicks major ass well into adulthood!
One of my favorite books when I was growing up, and it was also one of the saddest stories I read growing up too.
I have several nephews and as I turned each page in the book, my delight grew at the thought of them reading this wonderful story!
It's just the right type of book to capture a little boy's attention - it has machinery, it has a competition and it has a victor.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
I was probably younger than L is now the first time I heard this classic story.
I was excited to share this with Alistair and he liked it!
Still great, and it makes me think about Ramona. How DID Mike go to the bathroom, tho
هحكيها لأختي، جميلة جدا
An old classic.
Mike Mulligan has a steam shovel named Mary Ann. Together they dig foundations, cellars and level ground all over the city and country for buildings and rail roads.But then the gas and electric come along and Mary Ann is not needed anymore.
Mike cannot bear to put her in the junk yard with the rest.They find a town that needs a new town hall.
Mike tells the man in charge that Mary Ann can do the job and if they don't do it by sun down they'll do it for free.
The bet is on.A little surprise ending that leaves everyone happy.
The title page has the author name next to the 1939 copyright, but it also says Weekly Reader edition, so I'm not sure how close to a first edition this is.It's a cute story about a dude named Mike who digs his way to glory with his steam shovel, dubbed Mary Anne -- gouging out canals and skyscraper foundations and roadway passes.
Disaster seems imminent until an ingenious young boy saves the day.There's not really much to latch onto in a book like this except for my adult self to constantly flag all the inconsistencies that clash with reality.
Machine operator Mike Mulligan and his trusty steam shovel Mary Annecleared the land for landing strips, cities, canals, train tracks, and roads.
Mike and Mary Anne demonstrate how important determination and hard work are when faced with an obstacle.
With the descriptions about the changing machinery and crayon illustrations of horses and automobiles sharing the road, this also presents a slice of life in 1930’s America.
I like the moral of determination paying off in this story.
I also enjoy looking at the pictures, as they represent an interesting time in the United States that I’ve never seen in illustrations before.
Though fiction, children can learn from this story.
Why this beautiful book!
"Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel" follows the story of a man who doesn't have enough faith and of course an old steam shovel.
As they face the new and technological changes that have confronted them, Mike finds that his doubt grows and that there seems to be no room for their services anymore until a small town needs their help.
This is a story with many great lessons and a beautiful classic for all ages to come.
Truthfully we do need to get some of these older books back into print again.
This was one of my favorites as a kid.
I'm not sure if that's because I liked it so much, or because this is a book my dad read to me a lot.I think this must have been one of my dad's favorite books as a kid.
It looks like the copy right is 1939.
My dad was born in '41.
Don't tell anyone.Also, he built us a steam shovel.
Well, it was made of wood, and didn't use steam...
But, it was really cool.Either way, I still liked this book a lot.
: ) I think they liked it.
This was an okay book. It was not one I grew up on or raised my kids with. I like that it is a story about progress and invention that also show there are winners and losers. But even though it came out allright-ish in the end, I didn't appreciate the ending. Art was okay, writing could have been a little better.
This delightful book tells of the adventures of Mike Mulligan and his trusty steam shovel Mary Anne as the work to build a new town hall. Has themes of cooperation, friendship, and industrial revolution. The illustrations are beautifully done.
This was an interesting story with an odd, but touching ending. Our girls enjoyed that the steam shovel has "eyes," and seems to be alive, but didn't understand why they'd build the town hall around her. Cute story overall.
This is another book that would be good for a professional day. It illustrates what jobs a steam shovel does. It shows that steam shovels are a part of other tools that complete a job. It can help children learn to play together or as a team.
This is a great story of finding your place in the world. My kids loved the pictures and cheered right along with all the townspeople.We've read this book several times. It's one we'll read again I'm sure.
Classic from before I was born. Mike and Mary Ann build roads and buildings. Now they are obsolete but Mike has a way of keeping Mary Ann from the scrap heap. I remember watching Captain Kangaroo as he read this book. It was fun then. It is fun now. My brother loved Mary Ann and Mike.
Hadn't read this in more than 40 years. Still a sweet little story.
One of my favorite books of all time!
