https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149667.HMS_Ulysses
I must have been about 14 when I first read this book and I can remember being blown away by it; it was the best book that I had ever read.
It is, along with The Cruel Sea and The Cain Mutiny, one of the best explorations of naval warfare in WW11, focusing not only on the battles but also on the effects of the cold, the fear and the danger on the men who sailed in those ships.
So, I suppose this and books like The Cruel Sea have a special resonance for me.
I was excited to read this book, because I used to love Alistair MacLean.
But I was also nervous to read this book, because I used to love Alistair MacLean, and what if he wasn’t as good as I remembered?
They rarely have more than a minute or two of down time before the next crisis emerges, so it’s a good novel for fans of fast-paced, action-packed stories.
On the other hand, this one does a good job giving readers a taste of the trials and sacrifices common on assignments like that, giving me a greater appreciation for what WWII Arctic convoys went through.
Alistair Maclean was on to a winner with his first novel HMS Ulysses portraying the plight of British Navy in the harsh winter conditions during Arctic Convoys which were under constant danger of German U Boats and Warships.Maclean's writing is so engrossing that you feel that you are there with the crew.
I have given it 5 rating bcoz GR rating is restricted to this, otherwise this novel deserves a complete 10.I wish Mr. Spielberg would make a movie on HMS Ulysses some day.
HMS Ulysses is a ship badly in need of rest., Having already been on several Arctic runs to Murmansk, she and her borderline mutinous crew are being sent on another high-speed convoy with supplies desperately needed by the Russians.
And if a ship were tender, and hundreds of tons of ice.
And not even in the bitter Arctic is there the merciful extinction by cold, for the insulation of an oil-soaked body stretches a dying man on the rack for eternity, carefully prfeserves him for the last excruciating refinement of agony.”This is not a feel-good book.
Witout doubt the best naval war book ever written.
I first read this brilliant heart-stopping book years ago many times over and recently bought it again.
This is the author's first book and he has written many more excellent sea stories too, but this one stands out for me; much in the way of the novel "The Cruel Sea"HMS Ulysses is a frigate which is part of the arctic convoy runs during World War II to Murmansk.
These convoy runs were fraught with constant danger from the atrocious weather conditions at sea but also from the risk of destruction by Germany’s U-Boats.
Calling this a harrowing tale of war time heroism would be a huge under statement. It does a good job of portraying what life must have been like on one of those arctic convoy runs. As a reader you are worn down by the enormity of what these men had to endure minute by minute, hour by hour. A good read but not an enjoyable one.
Aceasta este povestea decimării convoiului.Alistair MacLean este fără dubiu unul dintre cei mai importanți scriitori ai istoriei omenirii, și încă unul care scrie despre lucruri trăite sau cunoscute din relatări la prima mână.
Acesta este însă romanul său de debut și este mai degrabă o frescă a psihologiei marinarului aflat în război, lipsind obișnuitele surprize spectaculoase de final ori investigațiile complicate cu care ne-a obișnuit apoi autorul.
AM's best book (that I've read), but sadly overshadowed in popularity by a number of his other novels. A truly fine piece of historical fiction that has warranted several reads on my part.
HMS Ulysses has many of the same elements as Monsarrat’s novel, but Monsarrat practices control over his writing, he knows that magical point where language needs to stop so that the reader’s imagination can complete the imagery and feelings being conveyed.
It’s certainly not intolerable, but he does over-describe things to the point where it feels like one’s imagination has been pushed aside.The action in Ulysses is a bit over the top; as if MacLean is trying to compress the entire variety of wartime experiences into the single mission being chronicled.
With MacLean's easy understanding of the military and its technology/jargon, as well as his well-justified "a star is born" reviews, HMS Ulysses was probably the Hunt for Red October of it's day.
In total, it's really much closer to Michener's The Bridges at Toki-Ri (which perhaps not coincidentally, was published just two years before Ulysses) than to any of MacLean's other work - and like Bridges, it paints a realistic picture of the randomness and senselessness of war.
Many of MacLean's other books are good-to-sometimes-great yarns and a lot of fun; but with just a few exceptions they are read, enjoyed and then forgotten.
My favorite Maclean book. The author vividly portrays the awful conditions and paralyzing fear suffered by sailors in the Arctic seas during the Second World War. His descriptions of the conditions will have you shivering yourself! In my opinion this book ranks with the best of war fiction.
The author describes the H.M.S. Ulysses as "The complete, the perfect fighting machine, man's ultimate, so far, in his attempt to weld science and savagery into an instrument of destruction.
The reader follows along as the crew faces: The cruelty of an arctic winter, death and privation, destruction, unrelenting bad weather, blizzards, the worst storm of the war, the roughest seas imaginable, ocean warfare, U-boats, air attacks, constant tension, no relief, one mission after another without letup, numbing intense cold, being stretched past their limits, physical exhaustion, weakness, hunger, snow, ice, hurricane force winds, 24 hr nights, miserable dawns, ice everywhere, chaos, unimaginable fatigue, and all without end.
The reader should come away with an appreciation of the challenges our parents, grandparents, and great grandparents had to face during WWII.
I worried that the years might have aged this book a bit, but happily that was not the case.July 2016 rereadThis is the only book I can recall dealing with life or adventure on the high seas that I have cared much for, and it turns out it's probably my favorite book, period.It is the tale of a light cruiser on an arctic convoy to Russia - a punishment issued to an already fatigued crew by an infuriatingly cold and punitive Admiralty for mutinous actions on their prior convoy run.
The HMS Ulysses is a Royal Navy cruiser whose crew have recently mutinied and are tasked once again to meet and escort a convoy on the Murmansk run to Russia.
The result is a fascinating, horrifying, touching story of this voyage; the love of the crew for their ill Captain, his love for them; the many personalities of the crew and the ordeal they must sail through.
The story makes me think of my father as he also sailed to Murmansk, something he doesn't tell me much about.
I've read this story before, but so long ago.
"Things are bad indeed, when only the enemy can save us."An excellent, nerve-wracking classic on the perils of naval warfare during WWII. The H. M. S. Ulysses is assigned to assist a merchant convoy on its re-supply mission to their Russian allies in Murmansk. Their mission is hampered by their own leaders. An admiral who shows favoritism to some and disrespect to others. The men of the H. M. S. Ulysses are expected to perform and survive despite the extremely cold Arctic weather, small rations, little sleep and an uncaring high command.
Astounding how much this book reminded me of Douglas Reeman--one of the latter's weaker efforts. Too drawn out, too psychological; too many "black hat" characters. But as where Reeman always integrated those elements in the plot, many here were tacked on as afterthoughts--e.g., the Rating who sacrifices himself for the ship to atone for a murder that took place before the book starts! And Reeman never killed off so many "white hats."Still, MacLean knows boats, and served in the "wavy Navy" during WW2, including on the deadly Arctic supply run to Archangel, Russia. Hell on the high seas.
Alistair MacLean’s “H.M.S. Ulysses” is an entertaining tale of the horrors of the Arctic convoys to Russia during World War II. It is, just that, entertaining -- while sometimes lapsing into “soap opera.” A back cover blurb states “H.M.S. Ulysses is in the same class as The Cruel Sea.” I disagree. MacLean’s novel is more akin to a Douglas Reeman book, but while Reeman concentrates on action, MacLean concentrates on characters. Neither, as an author of nautical action tales, is in a class with Nicholas Monsarrat. Alistair MacLean’s novel is worthy of a weak Three Stars.
Perhaps the greatest WW2 sea adventure ever!
So maybe I may be prejudiced but there's an equally likely chance that I have tried to keep an open mind about it.The story itself is simple- HMS Ulysses is a ship, a huge war ship that acts guard (from what I gather) to a convoy which had to cross the Arctic.
I have several complains about this book and the major one is that while 'things' keep on happening, it is a very slow read.
The first 100-150 pages, like every other Alistair Maclean book is very long and very slow.
Have you ever read a paragraph, midway through a book, that made you stop?
Then read it again.
I never had until I read "HMS Ulysses".I had never read any Alistair MacLean even though many of his titles were familiar from films.
Reader reviews steered me to this book and I will always be glad they did.
The monster struck.", then read on for the following page and tell me you don't stop reading and just stare, open-mouthed and with goose bumps for at least a minute or two.
MacLean's first book drew from his real-life experiences on a war ship during world war II. It is a very effective book and it's success is no surprise. Brutal and relentless, the description of the borderline crew fighting the enemy as well as the elements during an Arctic convoy is both thrilling and exhausting and had MacLean continued upon this path, he would be remembered differently. Now, he did give us some good thrillers, such as The Guns of Navarone, Where Eagles Dare and Night Without End, but his later output is really not anywhere near his first offering.
probably the greatest first novel EVER written,if you can read this without tears in yours eyes,especially at the end,you are probably socio or psycho pathic! anybody who thinks that any war is glorious,or heroic or has any good in it at all,should read this book and have all of thoese illusions shattered.i have literally read at least 30,000 books,and this has been reread many times,and still moves me.
One of the most vivid and emotionally impacting war stories I've ever read. Makes you feel as if you are on the Murmansk run, enduring sleepless nights and sub-zero temperatures while German U-boats, planes and surface ships are trying their best to kill you.
The poor sods crewing this escort ship are officially about to have a very bad trip.
They are slated to do yet another run of the convoy to Murmansk, which is pretty much Dead Men Sailing In Ships.
The whole book could really be titled "HMS Ulysses and the Terrible, Horrible, No-Good, Very Bad Convoy".
Then he has to fire on his father's ship because it was endangering the convoy.
It was just the sort of adventure book I love, full of hard luck and people pulling through anyway.Amazingly, some few battered survivors lived to tell the story.
The story of the boat, it's battles, and the sailors was interesting enough to keep me plowing through the book.
I tried to get past it...Googled some pictures of ships to try and educate myself about the nautical terms MacLean was using...learned a few of the basics.
You need to have a fairly extensive nautical vocabulary to NOT get annoyed by MacLean's almost OCD use of so many specific nautical words.
In Star Trek, you know that characters dressed in a red uniform are not important to the story line and are probably going to die.
The basic story line was compelling.

This is a story about the men who sailed in the H.M.S. Ulysses, a one-of-a-kind light cruiser, during World War II and covers, in detail, their third run on the dreaded convoy excursion from Halifax, Nova Scotia, to Murmansk, Russia.
The convoy was carrying much needed lend-lease war materials from the United States to Russia.
I read much of this book on a warm, stormy, Mid-Atlantic summer day.
The only fault I found with this book was the way he used different names in different situations for the same people.
If I had a dollar for every WW II book where the suave protagonist strolls his way through the enemy and completes his mission..
well, I'd be able to afford a much better phone to write this review on.
But HMS Ulysses is not such a book.
I have read quite a few books that are loosely based on ww2 but this is the first that caught my full attention.
The story starts with a mutiny ship and when the story ends you are left with just one question why do all good things come to an end?
every character in this book speaks volumes of the valor and dedication of their work ( and this is a mutiny ship mind you!)  I have come across many short stories describing the pain that people were during this cruel war but this book makes you realize that men who fought this war were no less human.
