https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91109.The_Long_Tomorrow
On the other hand, although I liked the book, I prefer almost every other work of Leigh Brackett's I have read to this one.For me, Brackett will always be the queen of interplanetary romances, those Edgar Rice Burroughs style fantasy yarns which appeal to the child in all of us.
It soon becomes their shining city, their destination, and before long they are headed to the Ohio River--and beyond it—to the west.This is a quest narrative—second nature to Brackett—but this time she pursues her quest realistically (no winged, no furry creatures here).
Okay, those are the very extremes, but even the milder examples would be insane zealots in any other type of fiction.
Of course science fiction does have a habit of defaulting to ‘Science = Good; Religion = Bad’ (even in this book, where science actually causes the cataclysm).
As much then as I greatly admired this book, I did wish the narrative would wander a little further afield and find some more pleasant protagonists.In summary: if Brackett is really suggesting that at the end of the world all we’ll be left with is unyielding religion and teenage boys, I think I’d rather run towards the bombs.
By this time technology is outlawed and viewed as the evil root cause of the apocalypse.The book begins with this quote from “the Thirtieth Amendment”:“No city, no town, no community of more than one thousand people or two hundred buildings to the square mile, shall be built or permitted to exist anywhere in the United States of America.”So people generally live in little towns or villages, controlled by religious sects like the New Mennonite, the New Ishmaelites, and the Amish (not new for some reason).
I also found myself viewing the book in the context of two other post-nuclear novels of the era, John Wyndham's “The Chrysalids” and Walter Miller's “A Canticle for Leibowitz," both of which present visions of a rural, highly religious, post-apocalyptic North America where a profound reaction against science and technology has taken place.
And, while Brackett’s book was a pleasant enough page-turner, I feel it comes up a bit short in that comparison, both in terms of the gravitas of the issues confronted, and in the emotional and imaginative impact that it had on me as a reader.Still, there was much that I liked about “The Long Tomorrow”, especially in Part 1, with Lem and Esau sneaking around on their private adventures, getting in trouble with parents and schoolteachers, etc.
Brackett's brilliant and genuinely creepy innovation --although I guess it's not really an innovation if it is the first book of what is now a well-worked genre -- is to create a society, not unlike mid-19th century America, but where Mennonites control the government, the religion, and the ideology.Mennonites?Apparently after "The Destruction," they along with the Amish and whatever Shakers and like groups were still around, proved best suited to a life without technology.
Every once in a while, you visit a used bookstore and happen across a forgotten classic.
In May, I drove through the little town of Kinsman, Ohio, on my way to Pymatuning to sit in a cabin and finish a novel that won't be published for some time.
who moved there with her husband and wrote scifi novels in a house down the street.Brackett, I learned, also wrote several screenplays.
One day, a precocious boy, Len, and his cousin, Esau, come across a radio, a forbidden piece of technology that may have come from the last remaining city.
Visit a used bookstore and get a copy for yourself!
There were some rather dull sections in the middle and it was disappointing that nearly all the characters were male!
But all was forgiven with this section, "I know now what lies across the land, the slow and heavy weight.
Only a belief, a state of mind endures, and even that changes constantly, but underneath there are two main kinds- the one that says, Here you must stop knowing, and the other which says, Learn" without a doubt one of the best endings I've come across!
So I forgave her for the dull bits, and loved the terrifying bits and the message at the end and must read more by her!
Len Colter and his cousin Esau feel constrained by the strict rules of their New Mennonite community, and eventually break away, looking for the legendary Bartorstown, said to retain knowledge of science and technology.I haven't read a lot of Leigh Brackett - an adventure novel or two.
The Long Tomorrow changed some aspects of my view.The writing is stronger than I anticipated/remembered, and Brackett does a nice job of concisely conveying an interesting post-apocalyptic world, and of creating credible, engaging characters to follow.
Well-written '50s SF, with a post-apocalyptic, pastoral setting that brims with Cold War regrets about knowledge and technology. A controversial ending that keeps you guessing until the final page, but Len's decision is the only one that makes sense given Brackett's powerful theme: [redacted because find out for yourself].
Hawks read a crime story written by Leigh Brackett, and hired the author through an agent.
I looked Brackett up, and found that she'd written science fiction, including The Long Tomorrow, one of the early post-apocalyptic reads.
Brackett's storytelling embodies the best of science fiction writing in the 50s and reads as intelligently today.
Neither utopian nor dystopian, The Long Tomorrow delivers the what happens after in the journey of Len Coulter, a farm boy whose life is laid out before him in ordered rules with swift punishment for veering from the path.
THE LONG TOMORROW. (1955). Leigh Brackett. ****. This is yet another selection included in the Library of America’s “American Science Fiction 1953-1956.” It is a well-plotted and well-paced tale of post-Apocalyptic America, where it is now against the law to have cities that exceed certain numbers of buildings or certain numbers of people. Dispersion has become the rule. There are no large cities left after the nuclear storm. We meet two cousins, Len and Esau Coulter. They both live on farms in
They learn of a place that still exists called Bartorstown, supposedly a place that is still like a city of old, and want to get away from their small town existence and reach it so that they can think and learn and partake of the old ways.
Turns out that this novel is a plea for the safe use of nuclear energy, and the banning of its use as weaponry.
To her credit, she contributed to the writing of “The Big Sleep,” “Rio Bravo,” “Hatari,” “Rio Lobo,” “The Long Goodbye,” and “Starwars: The Empire Strikes Back.” Recommended.
The only real science-fiction-y aspect of the novel is the fact that it takes place in the future, after a World War III nuclear holocaust has destroyed all the cities in the world. After this catastrophic event, the government has outlawed cities (too much of a target) and pretty much everyone has taken to being a New Mennonite and living just like the Amish do today. Part of the new religion preaches the comfort of being ignorant, thus keeping people from wanting to invent another nuclear bomb.read more...
As the story takes place less than 100 years after the nuclear apocalypse, I have the feeling that the long tomorrow of the title is what happens after the story ends, and that Len Coulter's coming-of-age is the template for a development that will be writ large across the future history. So, a cautiously optimistic view of things, recognising the fragility upon which that hope is founded. A nice balance between character and plot.
There are obviously post-apoc novels written in the 70s-90s, but the best ones arose, in my mind, within ten years after WWII.
The ending also raised an interesting point about the grass being greener on the other side, but in the sense that I'm back to the 1950s "warning" novel again; it seemed to me that Brackett was saying: "we better not blow ourselves up, because no matter what you do or how you live your life in the apocalypse, your life will be shit." It also raised interesting questions about fear, technological progress, mob mentality, and morality.
Both novels feature a Christianity adapted for circumstances, and both feature young people desperate to escape the straitjacket of their lives.Perhaps wisely, Brackett chose to avoid the SF clichés of mutations and consequent psychic powers and focus on the question that Len has to ask himself which is, put bluntly ‘Is it better to live in ignorance and be happy, or be knowledgeable and depressed?’Ultimately, what is learned can not be unlearned, as is reiterated to Len in various ways by his father, by the mysterious Mr Hostetter, and by a pastor with whom Len was lodging.
Pros: good writing, realistic extrapolation of the aftermath of a nuclear warCons: boring at times, Len becomes increasingly hard to relate toLen and Esau are cousins growing up in the New Mennonite Community of Piper's Run a hundred years after the atomic war that destroyed the United States.
The Thirtieth Ammendment states that no cities beyond a certain size are allowed to be built and the country has splintered into a variety of religious farmers and traders.After witnessing a stoning, the boys realize their curiosity is peaked and they start dreaming of going to Bartorstown, a mythical city where old technology is still used.Brackett is a good writer.
I want to believe that dreams come true, and for me this book did not send that message...It told me that humans are eternally driven toward what they don't have and what they can't see, something "better." It questions what "better" really is, does a better place really exist or is this it?
It makes you think do you want to always exist in this "long-tomorrow" that never becomes what you imagine it to be or do you make what you can of what you know you have?
Somewhere, however, the remnants of a free-thinking, technological society are believed to exist and our heroes, two young boys, are determined to find it.Initially I was dismayed by the lack of imagination the author displayed - things had recovered too fast, with barely any (if any) biological or ecological damage.
In fact there was no real evidence that the bombs HAD been dropped.The whole scenario made me think of the American dream of a rural nirvana, everyone peacefully co-existing among the haystacks, barns and cattle.
I find it interesting that all the best post apocalyptic books were written more than 50 years ago.
But you realise that if you've read something like this before it was probably one of the ones that came later that was inspired by this book.
Even though The Long Tomorrow was first published almost 60 years ago it doesn't feel dated or "quaint", possibly because it reads like a period piece.
Star Wars: A New Hope
Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back.
I enjoy most novels that I read -- that's why I choose them.
But I read The Long Tomorrow because it was in the New American Library collection of 1950s science fiction.
I knew nothing about it except that it was science fiction and that it was obviously well respected enough to be a part of the NAL anthology.So it came as a huge surprise that this book is, without a doubt, the most accomplished novel I have ever read.
Everything about it is perfect, and I tell you nothing about the plot or characters so that you may experience them as I did, almost completely unprepared for Leigh Brackett's genius.
READ THIS BOOK.
Classic sci-fi. A post-apocalyptic tale of the US after being nearly obliterated by the bomb. Religious sects that live simply, and off the earth, are the survivors that teach the rest how to survive. The outcome, of course, is that people are now governed by the religious tenets of these small sects.We follow Len, who thinks there should be more. His quest takes him on a journey of discovery and he learns some hard lessons along the way. My only qualm with the book, is there are no strong female characters, as was typical for sci-fi in the '50's.
"There's never been an act done since the beginning, from a kid stealing candy to a dictator committing genocide, that the person doing it didn't think he was fully justified. That's the mental trick called rationalizing, and it's done the human race more harm than anything else you can name."
At time when Ace was publishing most of their science fiction in doubles Leigh Brackett published dozens of space operas and fantasies ( that took place on Mars and Venus) far enough back that it seemed possible.
Anyone who has read my blog for anytime knows I love a good end of the world story.It was a cool surprise for me by the time the book showed up on my library holds and I got around to it, I had forgotten what it was about.
I've loved Brackett's stories.
isn't my favorite.
I liked it, but it was far less a science fiction / post-apocalyptic tale than a coming of age story.
Yes, the post-apocalyptic world is now filled with religious zealots (even the men of science are self-admittedly zealots in their own right) all trying in their own (probably futile) way to prevent another, probably even worse, nuclear disaster.
So from a world-building standpoint, it's beautifully rendered.
The characters are well drawn.
the plot is really just Len's search for greener grass, whether in the city of his imagination, or his idealized memories of home.
Jo Walton's new review:https://www.tor.com/2017/10/19/pastor..."I trust the Hugo nominators to pick the best five books of the year, most of the time, and since it was the first fiction nominee by a woman, and easily and inexpensively available as an e-book, I grabbed it.
And as soon as I started reading, it grabbed me.
I read it in one sitting this afternoon.
For a fifty-two-year-old book, what more can you ask?
...The book is charmingly and compellingly written.
It’s written in a very tight third person completely focused on Len and the way he grows up but won’t give in.
The two boys are shocked at seeing the brutal death, but fascinated with the idea of Bartorstown, so they decide to run away and find its mythical technology.This is the novel that was billed as "Leigh Brackett's best" on the cover.
And the first chunk of the book is Brackett in fine form: a kind of Tom Sawyer pastoralism amongst the small New Mennonite communities of future America.
The last third begins to get muddled, losing its momentum and focus; the ending is okay, lacking the resonance that would have made it great.This is a slick novel, with a lot going for it, though I'm not sure this is Brackett's best: most mature, yes, and most thought-provoking---her closest to standard SF.
The fear of further attacks led the survivors to turn to groups like the Mennonites and the Amish who had survived without the technological innovation as guides for a new way of life.
The focus of the story is on a boy named Len who, despite his upbringing as a New Mennonite, is fascinated by the rumors of Bartorstown, a place where technology is still utilized and embraced.
The narrative relates Len's quest to find Bartorstown and navigate for himself what he really believes about technology and faith.Without spoiling any of the plot, an aspect of what I found most intriguing about this book is its idea of fanaticism.
The novel was interesting, but I wasn't emotionally involved in it.
The overall tone of the novel grows progressively more bleak as the story moves forward, mirroring the state of mind of our main protagonist, Len Colter.
Len is not really happy.
Accompanied by his cousin Esau, Len goes on a journey...
Let's make on mistake, it's an interesting journey.
The three thematic parts describe well how Len grows from being a curious, idealistic boy to a disillusioned young man.
There is no Shangri-La for Len, or people like him, and perhaps that is the message of the novel.
The novel constructs a world in which religious sects that opposed modern technology before the war have adjusted to the post-apocalypse situation far more easily than anyone else, and have come to dominate the post-war society.The tale follows a pair of cousins who escape their constrained world after suffering harsh punishment for a thriving for learning, and their pursuit of a seemingly mythical community determined to resurrect the industrialised past.I liked it, but found the casual patriarchal tone disconcerting.
You can imagine my surprise when I learned (after finishing), that the author was a woman!

