https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2142.Blink
Though, I must say that overall, I left the book feeling very disappointed.
I can’t attest to whether this was realistic or reflects the thoughts and mindsets of these people in real life or not, but the comparisons from Christianity to Muslim was quite interesting.
I can see the point of the second a little bit, but I feel like it contradicted her character.
I left the book really feeling like a salvation message of some sort was lacking.
Ted Dekker totally set himself up to explain Christianity and lead the Main Character, Seth, to Christ.
//CONTENT//This book contained a good bit of content.
Dekker takes the supposedly smartest man in the world and instead of using his intellect, he uses magic to get out of the random sticky situations he finds himself in.
The characters practically sit down and take a break to shove Dekker's religious views about Islam and Christianity down our throats.
Now I don't mind religion in books, but Dekker doesn't even try to blend it into the story as thematic or symbolic elements.
But eventually I just got tired of checking my brain at the door, and no amount of story was going to make the book worth the time.
I loved this book!!An adventure, romance and a man and a woman's search for the Truth.
They meet up miraculously and then continue on a desperate run from the people who will stop at nothing to kill her.As they run, Seth questions the existence of God. And how could a God exist if he can see multiple futures?Very thought-provoking and wonderful (despited some theological differences).
I love this book!
(an uncle kicking his niece until she is being admitted into the hospital for a week, where are her parents anyway?)third, no Muslim woman (a good one) will touch a man (which she is not married to, unless it is her father, brother or son), yet alone kiss him.
i guess being a Muslim I couldn't help feeling uncomfortable being stereotyped that way.
despite his refusal to admit God, i like his wit.
i was feeling, if he really is a genius, why is it so hard for him to see that God exists?
Amazing writing. It is obvious Ted is a Christian but he never preaches at you. He just lets the character cope with the situation in their lives and watches God deliver.This particular book appealed to the linear side of my brain. His progression was so logical and made such sense. I loved how he blended the fact-based person with the faith-based person to bring about change in both of their lives.I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I'll keep it and read it again.
I won't waste electrons by repeating the plot of the book--there's a sketch above--but I will give my uncensored opinion.
Add in some royalty to spice up the first and some genius to justify the second (that is just to show up on the ingredients list, because it really won't affect the taste of the final product at all).
Add three tablespoons of your broadest and blandest Christianity, --don't mix it in too well, so it will leave startling pockets in the batter--oh, and DON'T put it on the ingredients list, unless serving at CBD--and half a teaspoon of tolerance for world religions.
The fun part is: she meets up with a Berkeley student Genius who has a Supernatural gift to choose the future.
The characters were heading to Las Vegas to win some gambling money and fly to Paris.
But it was a fun moment.The book had a creative angle: The main character SETH (student genius at Berkeley University) could see the future possibilities in front of him.
His insights and Islamic abuses will most likely have every Muslim raging against him as if he drew a cartoon character of Muhammad and put it in the Sunday Times.
What I wrote earlier is still relevant for the first 3 quarters of the book, but by the end, the story takes a turn into the preposterous.What went wrong?I hate to do it, but it is the final, climactic scene where Seth, our resident "genius" turned savior-of-princesses, gives up on trying to see the future and puts faith in God to swoop in and save the day.Quite literally a Deus-ex-machina.
You're better off rereading anything by C.S. Lewis.-------Original On-going Review----------------So the story is about a young American genius who somehow gains the ability to see the future and becomes mixed up with an Arabic princess who is fleeing for her life/virtue/freedom.
Seth Borders, a genius student in the graduate program at Berkley, thinks he's seeing things. Not hallucinations, exactly. Definitely not "visions"- the term has too many religious connotations. More like- the future. The future is just math, after all- calculating possibilities. Seth has always been brilliant at math- though the future thing is starting to freak him out a little...Blink. Miriam is on the run. Her father is trying to force her into a political marriage to a man she knows to be
Seth Borders, a genius student in the graduate program at Berkley, thinks he's seeing things.
Seth has always been brilliant at math- though the future thing is starting to freak him out a little...Blink.
Knowing that her only hope for freedom lies in escape, she flees Saudi Arabia for America, hoping to enlist the aid of an old school friend at Berkley...Blink.
Seth "sees" her before he meets her- and Arabic woman, a hand holding a gun pointed at her face.
Their are already groups from both families trying to find Miriam in America- Seth has his hands full trying to keep out of their reach.
Another good book by Ted Dekker.
Seth's genius mind really did seem that noticeable through most of the book.
Dekker does a good job at exploring the world of the Middle East and expanding on the struggle woman face in that society.
But being a Christian book, many Christians would have a problem with Seth and Miriam getting married when the characters didn't share a Christian faith, or were not like minded when it came to religion.
If your looking for a fast read and pager turner this is a good book.
The main character, Miriam, is destined for a life of brutality and loneliness.
Death is preferable even to life in luxurious surroundings.
When Miriam escapes to the U.S. and encounters Seth, the chase is on.
Nevertheless, the plot is so entertaining, the realist will be willing to overlook such departures from reality for the sake of enjoying an exciting book.Is this Christian fiction?
It's hard for me to call a book "Christian" when that particular teaching is absent.
If you are seeking inspirational Christian reading within the context of a suspense novel, this is not the book for you.
I actually read "Blink of an Eye" which is a revised edition of Blink.
I had never read anything by Ted Dekker only watched a few of his movies.
I am not one to read scary books as I get nightmares, but this one was fine in that area.
I really enjoyed this book.
I have recommended it to many people since reading it and they have all really liked it as well.
It has a bit of romance, lots of adventure, and some suspense.
I learned a great deal about the culture in Saudi Arabia that I had no idea was happening.
Te amo Ted Dekker ❤️
Blink of an Eye by Ted Dekker was definitely a different read than some of the other books I have read by Dekker - The Bride Collector and Boneman's Daughters, for example - but this novel did not disappoint me.The two main characters - Seth, a genius, and Miriam, a Saudi Arabian princess - are set on a course that is and isn't believable that something like this could actually happen.
Are there beautiful Saudi princesses out there, who are used as political pawns - more believable than Seth's unusual powers - to me.Yet, having said that, these two unlikely individuals are thrown together by fate and together they weave a tale of love and political intrigue that is fascinating to read.
I was talking with a co-worker and he mentioned the version he read was much more overtly Christian.
I read Blink of an Eye and in it, he equated agnosticism, deism, Islam, and Christianity as equals.
But what that fails to acknowledge is that God's love is most displayed when Jesus takes on our punishment for sin at the cross...which had to happen in order for a most holy and righteous God to listen and have a relationship with sinners like us!
You diminish God's holiness if you forget the exclusivity of the cross.
I gave this book 2 stars (would have given it 2.5 stars if possible) because it was a quick read, had somewhat intriguing characters and for the most part, the story line kept me turning pages.
The author missed a great opportunity to develop and delve into the personalities of his characters.
Dekker could have done so much more with the story line (especially the ending).
This book was OK for a quick, one time read, but I highly doubt that I will be reading Dekker again.
Arranged marriages in Saudi Arabia may seem odd to American citizens but to them it's normal.
But for Princess Miriam she refused, and fled to the U.S. right into the arms of Seth.
Seth had just developed the power of clairvoyance, making him one of the most powerful people in the world.
Together, the two narrowly escape scenes that are definitely "on-the-edge-of-your-seat" worthy...however, it dwindles off near the middle of the book and gets really complicated.
I really wanted to like this book and it started out get, but then just got a little too complicated for me with all the names and titles and such.
This book is a slight rewrite of Dekker’s 2002 novel Blink. Unlike some of his later works, this story feels more like a whole story -- complete with character development, story arcs, and a decently satisfying conclusion. It's a strong testimony to the page-turning prowess that Dekker clearly possesses. Blink remains a clever, solid read that, while enjoyable, had the unfortunate side-effect of making me wish that Dekker would once again start writing more like it.
This book was so strange that at first I thought it was a continuation of of "The Martyr's song" but when I read that Seth had the gift of seeing the future, I completely changed my mind. This book talks about the future, love, the Middle East conflict, faith, etc.. I loved the characters and enjoyed every page but the names seemed a little strange but in the end, the whole story was great.
Ted Dekker has never failed to suck me in to one of his books.
Blink was no different!
I was hooked by the first page and found myself on the run right alongside Seth and Miriam as they eluded their foes.I also liked that Dekker introduced another culture with Miriam being a Saudi Arabian princess.
It gave me a view into something that I otherwise have no knowledge on.
The way of life there is so different and it made me sympathize with Miriam in a strong way.There are many possible futures, but only one future wins out in the end.
Another great book from Dekker!
A don't-think-too-hard-about-it thriller. This was a page turner without emotional depth, but although it had some promise at the beginning for addressing problems like whether the future is fixed by its being known, it kind of dropped the ball on actually addressing them and turned into a man-hunt / escape attempt aided by clairvoyance and prayer.
One of the best books i've ever read from a Christian author. The development of the story and characters was artistically woven from the beginning to the end. Love always wins <3
His own ability to view alternate futures seems to debunk the idea of God's existence for him because it seems to mean that the future is open and this appears to be incompatible with an all-knowing God. But as the book goes on, Seth realizes that he can pray to the God of Jesus Christ and the possible futures that he sees change, pointing toward God's involvement in the world.Miriam, meanwhile, is wrestling too, both with the cultural difference between Saudi Arabia and the United States and between Islam and the Christianity that Seth is exploring.All of these plots come to a fast-paced conclusion as Seth rescues Miriam from her husband-to-be's palace and God delivers them from a seemingly inescapable standoff.Dekker wrestles with some interesting questions in an imaginative way, and that makes the book work.
In this case, it's a Westernized fantasy about a Saudi princess named "Miriam" (which is totally an Arabic name) who flees the oppressive prospect of marriage in her country and experiences "true freedom", that is, not wearing an abaya (which Dekker equates with looking like Darth Vader) and having titillating encounters with the Greek sculpture (yes, the white boy is a Greek sculpture.
The issues within the Arabian Gulf do need to be addressed, however, the sensationalization by the Western media that exploits the trope of defenseless and oppressed Middle-Eastern women does little to help improve the issues.
Arab and Muslim women do not need liberation in the form of marriage to white men or Westernization.
Now, as an atheist, I'm not against reading books with religious overtones, and I've enjoyed Christian fiction before.
Dekker could have fleshed that out so much more, and again, perhaps I could have been more okay with that had I known I was foraying into Christian fiction (nowhere on the book cover does it mention this genre; when my friend passed it over to me, I assumed it was a sci-fi piece).The plot is thrilling, the dialogue is sharp, and the story was overall a good one.
The novel opens with Miriam, a young Muslim girl living in Saudi Arabia.
She is at her friend's wedding and we quickly learn about marriage in Saudi Arabia.
Back in Saudi Arabia, Miriam learns she has been pledged to marry Omar, a vile older man.
Seth becomes Miriam's protector and fellow renegade from both U.S. and Saudi officials.
He sees multiple possible scenarios in advance, and as they travel the country trying to avoid assassins, the king's hired guns and the American government, Seth and Miriam forge a bond of trust and love.
The author gave a fascinating look at a princess who runs to America.
When the princess arrives in America she starts to run for her life.
There is an emotional transformation of this princess as she runs away from the men who want to take her back to the only home she has known.
This story is a very action packed, heart racing page turning novel; full of twists and turns.
You will be up all night reading this great story and have a compassion for the women behind the cloth of their country..Disclosure of Material Connection:I received a complimentary copy of this book from the author.
Ted Dekker's "Blink" is a roller-coaster of a book; I had a hard time putting it down at night to get enough sleep for work the next day.
The latter is a brilliant, though somewhat naive academic, Seth Border, and the former is a Muslim princess from the royal house of Saudi Arabia, Miriam.
Their worlds collide and Seth becomes Miriam's savior because of his sudden ability to see the future.
At first, he interprets this to mean that God isn't omniscient because Seth is able to manipulate their future by selecting the one that works best to get them out of trouble.
I think it is a good thing that this book starts up a discussion about muslims and christians.
It's a good reminder that we're all people and no matter the religion, it's the same God. What sends huge red flags up for me is that people in their reviews of this book say how they "learned so much about the muslim religion" by reading this book.
The book is good in the way it starts a discussion about muslims and christians.
If this book sparks you to want to go learn more about the muslim or christian religions then that is a good thing.
This book is fiction.
Every now and again the writing was a little clunky, but it worked for the most part.
The whole thing felt a little cliched and overdone, but I had to remind myself that it was written seven years ago, before the books-about-Islam craze really hit its fever pitch.
I liked both the characters and thought they actually had quite a bit of chemistry, which seems to be lacking in a lot of more action-packed books.
I also learned a bit about Saudi Arabia, of which I knew next to nothing about before I read this.
