https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117835.Nourishing_Traditions
Then I was diagnosed with hypothyroidism.
I felt like my body was turning against me even though I thought I was healthy.
I mean, shakes and chills and visions of goblins until I had an hourly fix)-cleared complexion-okay, this is going to be harder to explain but I have this definition I never had before in my face and body.
And it's not the weight loss because even when I was terribly thin I didn't have quite the same definition.
I mean, it's magic!Plus I've had about 99% less joint swelling!
Magic, I tell you!
Looking it over at first I thought-- "Wow, she thinks I'm a spelt-eating, raw-milk drinking, conspiracy theorist lunatic." This book begins with 80 pages of single space size 10 font INFORMATION-- about how the USDA, the American Cancer Association, and your pediatritian are all part of a sinister alliance to give you cancer, heart disease, cavities, and arthritis, and about the vast conspiracy of misinformation in the health and food world, and more detailed chemical analysis of the foods you should and shouldn't eat than I've ever read before.Did I say looking it over-- at first?
As a child I lived in the city, playing outside, watching a lot of tv and chasing down the ice cream truck until my dad remarried when I was 8 and we moved to a small farm.
My step-mom made us eat liver (organs) and lacto-fermented foods like sauerkraut and pickled veggies.
We have a son that was born with heart defects so I am constantly reading books that will teach me how to feed him to protect him against worsening his heart disease and this book takes us back to eating a diet before all the modern inventions ruined our food.
If it convinces people to eat healthier, to eat closer to nature, that's a good thing, but I was turned off by the didactic, lectury tone and the wacky conspiracy theorist smell.I did like the fermenting recipes (I have some pickles up right now using the recipes in the early part of the book), but little other that really called out to me that I had to try.
I'm glad I read it because a bunch of friends have been pushing the WP foundation at me, and now I know exactly what they're up to, but I'm not at all convinced by the arguments.
And the other day she gave me a jar of her homemade fermented Anaheim peppers.
I was so in love with this meal, with the added peppers, that I had it again that day for lunch.I called Lisa up.
Of course, the amount used would more than likely be different due to the size difference.Fermented Anaheim PeppersFor one quart:12 Anaheim peppers, scorched, seeded and peeled1 T.
I called Lisa and she said to leave them on the counter for ten more days because it takes longer to ferment in cooler weather.
Update: Two days after Lisa told me that it needed another 14 days to ferment, the peppers were tart enough.
Then rumbles on into telling you that packaged, prepared food is bad for you, you're gonna die of malnutrition.
Packaged, prepared ingredients are bad for you, you're gonna die from malnutrition.
Your only chance is to get hard to find and expensive raw ingredients.
Which you must correctly prepare prior to consumption, else you're gonna die from malnutrition.
Basically, you're gonna die from malnutrition, but this book is here to save you.Overall, the book presents such an extreme viewpoint that it can be difficult to read at times.
While there are maybe good ideas presented in the book, they are drowned out in the dogmatic preaching.
Fallon puts together a very interesting book though she isn't an anthropologist, a researcher, or a very good chef (though some of her salads are delicious).She denounces modern food preparation methods, including the pressure cooker and the microwave in favor of old-fashioned methods of preserving, culturing, sprouting, etc.
She advocates time spent in the kitchen feeding a family wholesome, unprocessed foods.
Her book made me really think about how little I knew about the processes our food goes through before it hits our grocery store shelves.
I now own this book, and though I don't like many of the recipes, I like reading the quotes and getting ideas.
This book inspired me to become a nutrition consultant. It's a must-read. The first part of the book discusses nutrition concepts, and the second part presents a plethora of recipes. Don't worry if you are vegetarian; while Fallon focuses much of her time on meats, there is plenty of other information to be gleaned from this volume.
Even if you're rich, you'll be time-impoverished while sprouting/fermenting/culturing all this stuff.
I don't have time to make my own yogurt and grind my own wheat and spelt in order to make pizza dough, which, of course, I have to top with tomato sauce (made by me, and ideally containing bone broth as an ingredient).
A lot of them require special ingredients that must be ordered from elsewhere (piima, kefir, kombucha, kelp, etc) which is more than a little bit of a hassle.
And with varying fermentation times, a cold spell this week could upset the meal plans two weeks from now.
I was first given this book by an herbalist friend of mine who endorsed its content and position ondiet, but warned me about Sally Fallon's "spit-and-vinegar" approach to food choices and social change.
No doubt--Nourishing Traditions absolutely lives up to its subtitle in Sally Fallon's direct, no-nonsense critique of prevailing nutritional values and investigation of the vagaries of processed foods.
I am a vegetarian, and it's important to note that Fallon does not endorse vegetarianism, nor is the text limited to meat-free recipes (by any means!).
Nourishing Traditions begins with a section about nutrition that I recommend as much as the recipes that make up the bulk of the book.
Granola, like all processed breakfast cereals should have no place on our cupboard shelves.
Boxed breakfast cereals are made by the extrusion process, in which little flakes and shapes are formed at high temperatures and pressures.
Extrusion processing destroys many valuable nutrients in grains, cause fragile oils to become rancid, and renders certain proteins toxic.
For a new generation of hardy children, we must return to the breakfast cereals of our ancestors - soaked gruels and porridges." I made her soaked millet porridge for breakfast the next morning - topped with milk, butter, and maple syrup (as she recommends) and it was fabulous.
The most important book on food/health I have read in my life.
I have been making my own keifer, cream cheese, butter, buttermilk, root beer and so many other things since I got this--it's been incredible!
So far the effects of eating this way include: no more hair loss for Tom, beautiful skin for me, overall feeling happier, no desire to eat sugar or drink alcohol (I am convinced that those cravings are actually cravings for lacto-fermented beverages and things since now I will literally be having a bad day and crave my homemade root beer or kombucha).
I have such a love / hate relationship with Sally Fallon and the Weston A Price Foundation. So much of what they advocate is so wonderful - a return to real food, slow cooked, sustainably grown - and delicious. Unfortunately, the legitimate scientific studies and well-reasoned arguments are mixed together in equal parts with unsubstantiated, unscientific hogwash.
In brief: she advocates whole foods, healthy fats, plenty of meat, lots of cooked vegetables, lots of whole grains, lots of fermented dairy, and lots of fermentation in general.
As with almost any cookbook of this length (7x10, 12 and 10 point font, no photos, nearly700 pages), the recipes are hit or miss, although there are a higher proportion of winners than one might expect.
Most importantly, though, you can gain a real, nuanced understanding of fermented foods and traditional cuisines through her notes--as long as you ignore some of the more wingnutty bits and supplement with your own reading.If you are looking for a sensible introduction to home cooking, this is not the book I would recommend for you.
However, Fallon does use outdated and poorly constructed studies to try to convince her readers that you will be healthier if you eat more meat and lard.
I agree that fats are fine and that reducing fat is not healthy, BUT I think fats like avocado, coconut, and olive-based fats/oils (for example) are much healthier than fats like pig and cow fat.
Of course, I agree that ditching processed foods and cooking with whole ingredients is how people should eat.
All-in-all, Fallon did not convince me to do anything other than continue to eat un-processed foods.
Man, I love this Nourishing Traditions cookbook. It has immediately filled my kitchen with little dishes of fermenting stuff in a way that even Wild Fermentation did not. Fallon is pretty big on meat (mmm organs) but i think even hard core vegans could find stuff to take from it, e.g. fermenting fruits and veggies, soaking grains, eating coconut oil. It may even make me a raw dairy product convert if I get a little ambition. It's sort of the perfect recipe book companion to Pollan's In Defense of Food.
Full of well-researched and presented information on the value of traditional foods and dietary habits. Fallon has an agenda, but is not afraid to point out the failings of any kind of extreme diet. The only drawback of this book, she advocates against coffee and chocolate because of the negative effects of caffeine. I suppose, in logic, I agree, but I get so much satisfaction from those two items, that I can't imagine a fulfilling life without them. Such is the nature of addiction.
I enjoyed this book. I haven't started doing all that it suggests but I had already started doing quite a bit of it. Over the last 2 years i have lost over 70 lbs and became much healthier. I want my own copy now :-)
I think food plays a huge part, however, there is more to it than that (environmental, genetics, etc) and she didn't elaborate enough, in my opinion.I had hoped that she would have elaborated on her information and covered all the facts, not just her side.
Reading this book, you get the feel that you have to become an absolute food nazi and I think that, barring an extreme health issue, eating well 90% of the time and encorporating good eating habits, etc., in our children is probably good enough.
This is another good foundation book if you're looking at eating traditional foods.
She talks a lot about culturing foods to encourage enzyme growth which promotes good digestion and gut flora.
Heh. Some of her recipes are not the greatest...I would suggest finding some one who has tried them before making.
Also addressed is the soaking of grains to reduce phytates (naturally occurring nutrient inhibitors.) This can be somewhat daunting when it comes to bread making, turning a long enough process into a two-day affair.
If you're interested in soaking and want something easy, google Mother Earth News No-knead Bread.
It's a good overview of a lot of the same information you see in books like Good Calories Bad Calories, albeit from a different perspective, and it's not so rigorously scientific.
A lot of the info can also be read online at the Weston A.
I also liked how she promotes moderation and discourages orthorexia by telling the reader not to make a "fetish" out of particularly healthy foods she's touting.Will probably try some of the lacto veggie recipes over the weekend.
I modified the mayo recipe a bit, and added whey to lacto preserve it.
Fallon does an excellent job of refuting most of what we are taught by the government and has plenty of research to back her up.
I do appreciate the way Fallon points out that extreme diets are never a good idea; I feel that we Americans are looking for the one quick way to solve all our health issues, and if one extreme diet can do that, we jump right on.
I look forward to incorporating her ideas into my diet, especially where it comes to fermented foods.
This book is one part manifesto, two parts cookbook. It is the recipe for a grass-fed uprising. It has liberated me. The revolution will not be pasteurized.
It makes use of high quality ingredients and certain preparation practices, along with judicious quantities and frequency of use of these things.
I was actually scared of food at that point.
This book helped me fill in the blanks and adjust to my new way of eating confidently.
More than anything, I find this way of eating simply works for me.
I pick and choose which things I am going to be a stickler about and which I am more casual about.
There is a wealth of information in the margins about the history and anthropology of food.
The premise of the book is that so many of our health problems stem from industrialized food--food we've only been eating for the last 100 years or so, such as refined sugar, white flour, and vegetable oil.
I think the thing that most struck me over and over again while reading it was just how everything we do in processing foods--heating them to extremely high levels, putting them under huge amounts of pressure, just generally denaturing them--messes them up in some way or another, from killing essential enzymes we need to digest the foods, killing beneficial bacteria, making vitamins and minerals inaccessable, or just generally rendering it carcinogenic.The sections on fermenting foods also really resonated with me.
Certainly, she gives us all something to think about.The basic premise of the book is that people (and Americans in particular) need to get back to our ancestral methods of growing, preparing, and eating food.
She blames a myriad of health problems (from the chronic to the terminal) on our diet of prepared, refined, super-heated, pasteurized, and battery-raised foods.Alternatively, she recommends making everything possible from scratch (including salad dressings, stocks, soups, yogurt, etc).
(Makes sense, yes?)I have made a number of changes to my diet based on her advice and have prepared a number of her delicious, healthful recipes.
I highly recommend this book as food for thought...
I love this book.
I'm so bummed I took it to a friends' house to cook with and left it in my paper grocery bag and it got mistaken for recycling....*pout*.
It was my most referenced reference book, probably (so much so that I might splurge for another), with loads of info on every vegetable and what vitamins and minerals it is rich in and what each of those vitamins and minerals does for you, and loads of info on diseases and ailments and what you should eat to get rid of them and oodles of yummy recipes...and...and...and....Word to the wise, though, it's pretty anti-vegan and down on vegetarianism (she comes out and says it's bad for you at some point....I just ignored it and got on with the veggie recipes, and now I...want to venture further into this book again...I got my Beet Kvass recipe from this book (it's fermented beet tonic)!
I'm generally not a fan of anything that purports to tell me that the government is trying to kill me, so I skipped most of the first half of this book.
According to the book, anecdotal data shows that populations who eat a traditional diet (think pre-refrigeration) are in better general health than those who eat a more modern diet of refined foods.
I'm gearing up to make a batch of traditional sauerkraut, and I'm intrigued by water kefir.
And dairy kefir, for that matter.
I never did try any of the recipes, but I'm still intrigued.
I have been browsing through this slowly.
It is a lot of reading.
The idea of this book is that you should eat traditional, organic/chemical free foods, and unprocessed foods.
It has a lot of recipes for fish, meat, and vegetables, dairy/butter heavy sauces and also ideas for making things from sprouted grains and beans(the way our ansectors ate them, supposedly).
There are also recipes for fermented (good for you, according to the book) things you would never think to make yourself: thai fish sauce, yogurt, soy sauce, kimchi.
This one is the HUB of our kitchen.
I'm pretty sure that Sally Fallon is kinda crazy, but I believe that the nutritional information she presents in these pages is dead on.
It's so contrary to mainstream "nutritional knowledge" that it is almost laughable, and yet it all makes so much sense.
I don't agree with everything 100%, but pretty close.
There are very few who I feel have the true knowledge and understanding that Sally does about nutrition and how foods affect our bodies.All that, and tons of awesome recipes to boot.
Get this one, read it, and put it into practice.
