https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23346759-truckers
The nomes (gnomes if you like) are an interesting mix of clever and stupid, and the addition of a lost history and their origin in the stars gives a refreshing sci-fi twist to a fantasy-in-the-real-world story.
I wonder why that appeals to me...I'm not sure what age range this is aimed at, but it's published by Corgi Children's and I'm pretty sure my wife would have picked it up the 11 year old (or less) section.
So it goes with many of the jokes.Even so, it's an inventive story with various challenges facing our nomes, not least the understanding of the human world.
Very, very funny. Surprised to see on Amazon that this book is listed as ages 8 - 10. I first read it in my mid twenties, and enjoyed equally well now in my late forties. You can't put an age limit on humour!
Went looking and when I came across Terry Pratchett, I had a light globe moment, haven't read any Sir Terry for about twenty years.
Went looking in my box of many thing and found Truckers an audio edition.What a joy.
I like listening to audio books when my dog is taking me for a walk.
Mothers pulled children to to their sides saying " promise me that you will have me put down before I end up like that"Terry Pratchett has the ability to turn very ordinary thing upside down and make them extra-ordinary.
That a part, this was, once again, a joy to read.Will the thing rescue them?
Review to come, because post-match euphoria.
The librarian at our local library has amazing taste in books.
When she hands me a stack every time I go to the library I know I will like every single one.
She is such a motivation for me to read often.This book is the first in a series of three books and was recommended to me by her and she said, "You are going to love these." She was absolutely right.
While reading the whole time I kept thinking I want to write books like these.
I think I can do that.The book is about a bunch of gnomes.

Libro en el que unos gnomos que viven en nuestro mundo - aunque no los vemos debido a la relatividad del tiempo- se ven forzados a abandonar su hogar y descubrir cosas nuevas como la electricidad o algo tan simple como el mundo.La prosa no es muy refinada al contrario que otros libros del autor aunque si tenemos en cuenta que se publicó cuando los dos primeros libros de mundodisco ya nos podemos hacer una idea de que todavía no estaba afinada. Se trata de un autor con el que me cuesta muchísimo ser crítico.
I really liked this one! It was an exciting, thoughtful, and, I thought, intelligent story of the four inch high nomes and their struggle to find somewhere safe to live. It was interesting to read about how they find ways to use the much bigger, human-sized objects, and the adventures they have are surprisingly gripping and dramatic. I am looking forward to the rest of the series!
A fun and light hearted story about the Nomes who live among us.
Was good, but I lost interest at some points.
[Quick, short review from memory before I re-read and review fully:Memories are fairly vague, though the plot is almost there. I recall I enjoyed it, though I don't remember specifics. No characters spring to mind but setting is viable. Some happenings. Good writing. Elsewise vague.]
Truckers is no Discworld; it lacks the hilarity, but it possesses a charm that would endear itself to children more. It is very reminiscent of Pratchett’s first book, The Carpet People. In both, tiny people living near, but unseen by, humans, interact with the human world from an ants-eye view, often with silly results. They also mimic human society in Pratchett’s quirky way, giving opportunity to comment on prejudices, ignorance, religion, leadership, and human failings, in a gentle and understanding way. A great read with kids or for a Pratchett fan.
Il gradito ritorno del commentatore-ospite[Da lontano: 9 novembre 2013]L'inarrestabile genialità di Terry Pratchett si sfoga in questo libro; il divertimento e la fantasia vi travolgeranno: un racconto incredibile, fantasy e spiritoso. Vi conquisterà.[g]
❤
So they're quite shocked when a group of strangers arrives, especially when those strangers tell them that the store will be closing and that all the nomes must leave and find a new place to live.I don't really want to tell you much more about the story but where Terry Pratchett excels is with his clever observations about life, the way he finds the completely absurd in every day life and with just a tiny twist makes us realise just how strange things we take for granted really are.
The story begins with the last of the nomes making a desperate play to try and leave their lives behind because they're in danger of going extinct.
They end up at a department store and discover that thousands of nomes live there.
The book eventually drops its plot twist: (view spoiler)[nomes used to be an incredibly advanced and space-faring race and kick-starated human technology to try and get back to space after they crash-landed on Earth.
I think it eventually redeems itself, but I wouldn't recommend that you go out of your way to read it.

This is the sort of engaging, fun, funny story that would be ten zillion times better if there were more than one female character in the entire F*ing thing.
But, you say, there are three female characters -- THREE out of a cast of two thousand (and not a single female background character, mind).
And unto you I say, they are all the same damn characters: stubborn, plucky windowdressing with a side of "of course women should learn to read" thrown in.
This was published only fifteen years ago, which is a sad commentary on the state of affairs.Ugh, way to ruin a good book, Pratchett.
If you ask 10 nomes to push four will pull and two will say pardon.Reading this book was pure fun. Technically, this was my first Pratchett's book. I've read Good Omens, but he co-wrote that with Neil Gaiman. And after reading Good Omens I knew that Pratchett's books are going to be fun to read, and I was completely right. But also, while this book had lots of humor, it still had some meaningful things hidden in that humor. And I'm so glad that I have second part of this series, because I'm going to start reading it immediately.
What begins as one of those "cute" stories about little people living in baseboards and using paper clip chains as climbing ropes becomes both an entertaining adventure and an exploration of superstition, prejudice, the nature of religion, and how we know what we know. And it's funny.
U tom razgovoru Gurder je bio besan. "Čitanje", rekao je tada. "Da ovde dođe svaka noumska budala i da nam istroši tekstove preteranim gledanjem! Zašto ne odaš svima sve naše veštine, kad si već tako krenuo?
Anyhow, reading this series, I bought all three books at once, is long overdue.This is an earlier book by Pratchett standards, written in the late 80s, it was also one of few targeted directly at children, well young adults at least.
I was not sure quite what to expect, I knew it had been televised (I've had the DVD for many years, but wanted to read the book first...), so other people must've thought it was great, Pratchett is always great!
It's wonderfully funny and inventive and in true Pratchett style, particularly in his later years, but evident here long ago, is full of philosophical insight in to the nature of belief and people.
Jedná se vůbec o první knihu, kterou jsem přečetl od tohoto autora.
Musím říci, že se mi kniha líbila.
Spíše je určená pro děti, ale mohou si ji přečíst i dospělí.
Kromě humoru se v knize vyskytovaly i věci k zamyšlení.
Oblíbil jsem i postavy, které se v knize vyskytují, včetně VĚCI, která Nómům radila.
Časem vyzkouším další knihy.
Citát z knihy, který mne oslovil: U toho, kdo je vůdcem, není ani tak důležité, jestli má pravdu, nebo se mýlí, ale že si je jistý.
Jinak lidé nebudou vědět, co si mají myslet.
Samozřejmě je mnohem lepší, když navíc k tomu máš ještě pravdu.
A fun, witty, and whimsical tale of tiny people known as nomes trying to survive in the big world inhabited by odd creatures known as humans.
Pratchett’s writing is humorous and his characters are all charming and endearing in their own ways.
The dialogue between them was great.
The story has a sense of magical realism about it and the plot is simple enough but a enjoyable ride just the same.
I’m interested to see where the next book will go and how the nomes will tackle the next obstacle thrown their way.
This a fantastic little book that can appeal to all ages.
This was cute, with some great puns and wordplay (of which the Spider and I are both big fans).
The concept was interesting, but the characters themselves were a little lacklustre.
We will continue the series, as I’m interested to see how things will develop.The Spider enjoyed this very much - she said that she didn't want it to be over, and immediately asked if there was another one.
Cheers ensued when I told her that there was.
She then asked me who my favourite character was, and shared who hers was.
I'm so glad to be able to read with her.
Early Pratchett, vintage Pratchett. This story is meant for kids, but I would recommend every adult to read it. Might just make you look at society, religion, and people in a different, more understanding light.
I loved this book. I loved the play on words, the wry humour, everything. Will definitely read the whole series!
Bra.Jag älskar filosofin i den. Det är beundransvärt hur de har kommit på en hel religion baserad på skyltar i ett varuhus.Men det var inte en sån bok som man inte kan sluta läsa.
A nice fun little re read of a fave of mine always makes me smile 😊
So I'll rate it with a 4.Regarding the complexity and difficulty, as the nomes world is created for the novel, there are some degrees of complexity as the author needs to present that society in some details.
All in all, my final rating for it is 3.86, which I will round it to 4 on Goodreads system.+--------------------------+-----------------+| Criteria | Rating |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Premise | 2 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Form | 5 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Originality | 5 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Characters | 4 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Difficulty/Complexity | 4 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Credibility | 4 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Edition | 3 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Total | 3.86 |+--------------------------+-----------------+For more details on how I rated and reviewed this novel, please read these guidelines.
