https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29394.Cursor_s_Fury
But kudos, if you did...Ok, it starts out with the stars turning red and something scary getting loose in the clouds...All the characters we love are back, along with all the ones we love to hate.*rubs hands together with glee*The story switches mostly between the these main groups of characters:Tavi (and his friends) on a spoilery mission from Gaius as Legionaries, which turns into SO much more.
<--FANTASTIC STUFF!Then, Bernard and Amara (and their enemies!) on a spoilery mission from Gaius to rescue political prisoners.
<--FINALLY!And even though we don't get to see things from her POV, Katai is always on her own personal spoilery mission to save her favorite Aleran from his Aleran stupidity.
Hatte ein paar Längen, aber diese zu überwinden war alles wert!!! Dieses Ende, wowowowowow ❤️
[4.5 stars] The Codex Alera is shaping up to becoming one of my favorite fantasy series.
It’s already responsible for one of my favorite books I’ve ever read (Academ’s Fury) and I’d be hard-pressed to tell you why Cursor’s Fury doesn’t deserve a spot of honor right next to it.
I’ve been stingy with solid 5-star ratings lately because I want them to signify an outstanding book and really mean something when I assign them.
Cursor’s Fury deserved a 5-star imo, but I kept it at 4.5 because it wasn't my favorite of the series.
The first book, Furies of Calderon, was so average I almost didn’t keep reading.
For the third time (fourth if you count the past event which gets mentioned regularly) the realm is in mortal danger.
For every single book of the series I read so far I was sure I would rate it with 3 stars and every one of them ended up with 4, and this time is not an exception.
The big plot twist at the end typical for the series is present as well, but this time I was able to predict it (yay for me!)I already mentioned 4 stars as the rating.
Mr. Butcher established the world and the key players in the last 2 books, and now he gets down the business of telling the story.Audio book: I didn't like Ms. Reading too much at the start.
I think she's also flushed out the voices she uses for all the main and secondary characters to really add that extra something that not all audio books readers seem to manage.
I was having far too much fun listening this book to spend much of the review getting into that.Part adventure, part political thriller, part war novel with a decent amount of romance thrown in, there is a likely something for everyone here.
By far the best of the first three books in the series. I think the biggest change was Tavi stopped whining and in the first two novels the author kept insisting Tavi was smart but his clueless actions said otherwise. The action was also much faster. All of the other characters have been interesting and compelling all along and continue to be so. It's just hard when the focal character isn't. Looking forward to the rest of the series.
At this point, he has only been in school for two years, and he's going up against soldiers, sometimes with years of battle experience, and they just shrug it off and say, "Boy is that kid clever." He manages to come up with several deus ex machina; particularly I'm thinking of the Knights Aeris bending light to make a gigantic lens of fiery death.
It is even mentioned at one point that directly below the bridge, Canim troops try to swim across, but are thwarted by a defense Tavi put there.
This was my favorite installment, I loved everything about it: Tavi, the Canim, Tavi, the military setting, Tavi, the new characters, TAVI and basically everything else.I enjoyed all the flashbacks, I think they are very well done and also necessary to the story.
Araris is now a much more relatable character and I got to know Septimus, my new obsession.But let's talk about the very best: Tavi.
The only thing I didn't find as entertaining as the rest of the book was Amara's plotline: I didn't really care for her and Bernard and Rook, even though I know their story was as important as the others.Anyway, fantastic series!
Another 5 for sure on this book in the series!
I’m not sure whether I liked it as much as the second book but I do know that I loved it.I loved that this book takes place years after the last book and that gives the characters to grow up a bit.
There are some pretty big revelations that really push the series forward.If you like fantasy and don’t need sex in the story, get into this series!!
What I like most about the series so far is that they are standalone books that build on the previous one.
Wonderful. Best so far. Good integration of magic, strategy, and Roman engineering. Tavi's character takes shape and some new relationships develop, along with the old favorites (Max, Kitai, Ehren, Amara, Bernard, etc.). We learn about Fade's role in his birth, and see more of the wolf-like Canum warriors and ritualist sorcerers.But Butcher goes overboard with "wolfish grins" and inserts a bit too much on the sexy Amara-Bernard ship.I don't buy into the reformed character. Redemption isn't so cheap.
This is the third book in the Codex Alera series by Jim Butcher.
This is fantasy in the way that only Jim Butcher can do.
This book was a solid 4 stars for me.
The ending was 5 stars.
I loved the ending.
I like the characters.
Even the token romance between Tavi and Katai is kind of sweet, but in a good way.
I like that they are still their own character without the constant mooning over each other and plus, she was funny.
There was actually way more to this story than romance.
So on to book #4.
Another epic and adventurous page-turner in this amazing series! I'm totally looking forward to see Tavi's growth and development, and his embrace of the destiny that lies ahead of him. I have fallen totally in love with this series.
4.5 stars. Another outstanding installment of this high quality epic fantasy series. Of Butcher's two series, I think I like this series more (even though the Dresden books are a ton of fun). The quality of the writing continues to improve, the scope of the story continues to expand and the world-building is absolutely superb. So far, each successive installment has been better than the previous one and I hope the trend continues. Highly Recommended!!

This book is my least favorite in the "Codex Alera" series so far and, to be fair, its probably mostly my own fault. First of all, its been a while since Ive read the second book in the series and due two the huge amount of characters and place names, which many adult fantasy books feature, I already forgot quite a few and it took me a while to dive into this world again. Furthermore I was a bit disappointed that all the Marat, except for Kitai, were not really present in this book because their
First of all, it´s been a while since I´ve read the second book in the series and due two the huge amount of characters and place names, which many adult fantasy books feature, I already forgot quite a few and it took me a while to dive into this world again.
Although I like Tavi as a character I found his story line in this book a bit exhausting after a while and sometimes I wished to read a bit more about Bernard and Amara.
Although I already said that I wasn´t blown away by Tavi´s plot line in this book, that doesn´t mean that I like him less as a character.
The Freaking Canim.Finally Tavi's got some worthy adversaries and while treachery is always afoot in the Kingdom of Alera, this time, there's far more open conflict.
Butcher continues to write really well and put his characters through legitimately believable emotional turmoil and growth in a completely fantastic setting filled with awesome imagery and novel twists on epic action.There's nothing not to like about this book, and the way Butcher puts it together makes you feel rewarded for sticking with the series.
This is what Ender should have been after the first book.
Solid five starts. An excellent book that expands the universe and makes you keep reading. I love the characters. Butcher is really good at making them interesting and I end up caring about all of them, even the bad ones. Fidelias is one of my favourite and I really enjoy the fact that he is not wholly good or bad but has his own moral compass. The ending of the book was totally awesome and it made me start reading the fourth book immediately. A highly recommended series. Butcher shows once again what an excellent writer he is.
Another good addition to the series, but some of the foreshadowing was heavy handed, so 3.5.
A fun, quick read.
The series is definitely worth continuing.
No real need for a full review - if you liked the first 2 books, you'll like this one.
I did & am moving on to the 4th.Update: This book in the MMP edition, is the only one to have a map, so far & I'm on book 5.
I REALLY wanted a map in the others, too.
That makes this book very important to keep handy.
The growing relationship between Tavi and Kitai is just beautiful - very touching moments as they hold each other before battle, and also very prosaic moments when Kitai will puncture Tavi's times of pride, just because she can.Finally, I just want to mention that I was actually surprised by a particular reveal at the end of this novel concerning one of the characters - and that was just fine with me too.
Butcher has created a memorable protagonist in the form of Tavi of Calderon and the fact I keep picking up the next book in the series when I really have commitments to read other novels shows, I think, how compelling these are.
This is book number 3 in the Codex Alera series and I have really enjoyed the previous two so I was hoping to really love this one too and it did not disappoint!The storyline of this book is focussed mostly on Tavi once again as the main character, but it does still include chapter snippets into the lives of the other major players.
Getting to know the characters better here.
My attention was brought back to them and I want to take a minute to recommend them and say again that I like them.
Being a huge Dresden fan I probably tend to give them a bit of short shrift.You can tell by the titles that Tavi's is moving through life.
Having gone to the Academy he's become a Cursor...but things don't look to be getting any easier, or any clearer...or any safer.
Still dealing with the whys, wherefores, and "who am Is" of his life Tavi is drawing attention he really doesn't want.
This series just keeps getting better! I love these characters and story line. The only thing that kept it from a five star was the long drawn out battle scenes, other than that, this was pretty damn amazing.On to book four...
4.5 "We are at war." 2 years have passed and we once again follow Tavi, now 19, into uncertain death as Alera Imperia is under attack, this time by one of it's own high Lords.Jim Butcher really hit his stride in this book, the characters, story, and writing all melded together seamlessly to give an action packed story from start to finish. Definitely the best book in the series so far, most of the characters you've grown to love come back in this story and are faced with even more deadly challen
2 years have passed and we once again follow Tavi, now 19, into uncertain death as Alera Imperia is under attack, this time by one of it's own high Lords.Jim Butcher really hit his stride in this book, the characters, story, and writing all melded together seamlessly to give an action packed story from start to finish.
All show great depth of character and you get a glimpse more of a glimpse into what drives them and who they are as a person.This book was action packed from start to finish and definitely comes together as a whole.
Still interesting and fun, I liked this installment of the series. There was a decent amount of relationship and character development, but there was also a little too much action for me. I liked the twists and turns and look forward to seeing what happens next to Tavi and the gang.
Why the heck didn't i read this sooner?! It was great! My favourite of the series so far!
Instead, Butcher, following the pattern of the second book, runs at least another half-dozen major characters through their own separate tales, dealing with politics, magic, old loyalties, and devil’s bargains made and broken.
The good guys win, mostly, but never easily, and always at a cost.There’s probably three novels worth of material here, but Butcher does a good job of keeping it managed and coherent — and entertaining.Characters: As noted above, the book has several primary, and several more secondary, characters, most of whom we’ve met in earlier volumes, all of whom are involved in an elaborately woven series of plots and circumstances.
What I thought was a good story turned into a GREAT story and shows no signs of abating anytime soon.In Tavi, Amara, Bernard, and the countless others, Butcher has created a juggernaut-like cast of characters.
You root for Bernard and Amara to find happiness and safety, praying that they are never separated.It's truly the simplicity of the way these stories are constructed that is so impressive.
His best weapon, I believe, is the ability to make you wonder what they could possibly do....and then delivers a twist that you never see coming...one that makes perfect sense.This series is definitely one of the best.
I cant' praise enough this serie.No idea why I like it so much.Other than the fact that I love every single character that appears( evile, good, beasts, semi-human, human-eating...).
I love how organic this serie in general and each book is.; there is a general plot but every book has is own plotline and sublots end everyting is done oragnically and there is no subplot or character that feels out of placeThe author doesn't need tricks like cliffhangers or deaths of beloved characters to keep the reader interested.
This series gets better with each book. Cursor's Fury is still solidly in the military fantasy camp. I often find military fantasy a little tedious, but the battles are well-written enough in this one for the story not to drag on. There are twists and revelations that take it beyond pure military fantasy, and some great developments to whet my appetite for the next book.
