https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1655274.William_the_Fourth
Just as the Vicar explains and takes the sign off to show the Duke, William and his cohorts appear, each wearing placards with creative spelling announcing the various benefits of Mr Moss's sweets.
William in his tripping over his tongue enthusiastic way explains about Mr Moss and the Amazon-like attempt to close him down and how much they want to help and that nobody would notice them unless, he thought, they could put their sign on an important person who would be decent enough to care.Well, the Duke's been to more Sales of Work than he cares to think about and this is the first bright moment he's had for many an appearance.
This review is about the audio version of the book; it is the 5th William audio book I have listened to and is just as good as the others.
I read an interview with the author and she said that the books were never intended to be targeted exclusively for children; it just ended up that way.
I recommend the entire series, it is perfect for children and adults who want to read about a more innocent time.
The narrator is very good and creates different voices for the characters using the correct tones of irony, hysteria and sarcasm as needed.
More William stories. They are quite funny, but better enjoyed in small doses because, while Richmal Crompton has a wonderful sense of humor and a good eye for satire, sometimes her ideas are too similar. We know by know what kind of thing she likes to make fun of, and some stories become predictable because of that. Still, William often manages to surprise us with his ideas, and many good things are to come.
More fun. These books are getting me through chemo!

Wonderful fun - and a huge nostalgia trip as I started reading "The Weak Spot" where William becomes a communist and redistributes his brother's wealth, a story I remember vividly from childhood. They are all beautifully constructed vignettes, almost Wodehousian, where a small event spirals out of control thanks to William's imagination, enthusiasm and misunderstanding of the adult world. Unlike most children's fiction I still find them satisfying to read as an adult.
My childhood staple. I never tire of William and his out of the world antics. This is my umpteenth read, still I enjoyed it. You have to read William to know who he is. I cant do justice to his world and friends in a measly review.
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate..
