https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1934327.Bear_Island
TO BORE OR NOT TO BORE, THAT IS THE QUESTION!"thriller" plot: Not Boringmurder mystery elements: Not
Description: A converted fishing trawler, Morning Rose carries a movie-making crew across the Barents Sea to isolated Bear Island, well above the Arctic Circle, for some on-location filming, but the script is a secret known only to the producer and screenwriter.
En route, members of the movie crew and ship's company begin to die under mysterious circumstances.
The crew's doctor, Marlowe, finds himself enmeshed in a violent, multi-layered plot in which very few of the persons aboard are whom they claim to be.Marlowe's efforts to unravel the plot become even more complicated once the movie crew is deposited ashore on Bear Island, beyond the reach of the law or outside help.
Starting with the serious "H.M.S Ulysses", about the Murmansk Run of convoy ships during WWIl, and the excellent WWII adventure "The Guns of Navarone", Maclean then produced 25 books of varying degrees of quality, all characterized by complicated ( if sometimes improbable) plots, exotic locations, double and triple crosses, and some suspenseful action.
MacLean took the James Bond model from Ian Fleming, removed the sex, the sadism, and the misogyny, and produced a kind of " boy's own adventure " ,"ripping yarn" for the Cold War. Many of his books were filmed( some well, most badly), and his later books began to feel like movie treatments filled with contrived stories, wooden, stereotypical characterizations, and leaden dialogue.
Could've been an old dark house I suppose.
Our narrator is named Marlowe and one of the cast of characters is named Conrad and still another is called "Mary dear"!!!
Lots of characters to keep track of - kind of confusing for my old brain.
More tonight.- So far the characters seem to have drunk up a whole warehouse full of alcohol - and its only one night.
My earlier suspicions about a couple of characters has been confirmed and both the hero and I are wondering about the dropping of one little word earlier in the story.
Alistair MacLean, to me, is one of those never-can-go-wrong authors whose works are quite decent at worst and extremely satisfying at best... This one's end felt a little tame, considering the mounting suspense through the previous ninety percent of the novel. Nevertheless, chilling & thrilling, this one is a highly enjoyable, trademark MacLean book!
It goes something like this...The first 100 pp or so of the book are spent introducing characters, seeing some of them drop off right and left to a variety of villanous acts, and some just disappear.
Finally, at the end, one of the characters engages in a prolonged monologue (15-20 pp) that explains what happened, who did it, and why, to the readers who are not at all likely to have figured it out on their own.
If you like mysteries you may like this one, but I plowed through, mainly because I wanted to see how the book ended up, compared to the movie of the same name (starring Donald Sutherland).
Mr. MacLean did a pretty good job of creating suspense, drama, and chills (literally, as one could almost feel the Arctic wind and snow plaguing the trawler and Bear Island).
It seemed that nearly everyone in the film making crew had secrets and were not who they claimed to be, not even the good doctor, which made for some very interesting conversations and revelations.Perhaps not one of Mr. MacLean's best, as the pace dragged a bit in places, but quite an enjoyable offering nevertheless for those who are fans of these types of mysteries.
The Morning Rose has been chartered to take a film crew to the remote Arctic Bear Island. Christopher Marlowe, the ship's doctor, in addition to treating sea sick passengers has to deal with a murder among the crew. There is a secret on Bear Island worth killing for.
A film crew is on a voyage to Bear Island in the Arctic when the ship and film crew members mysteriously start getting killed.
This is a thriller but without getting the reader involved at first.This germ of plot in thrillers where a group of people in isolated situations start getting killed mysteriously one after the other, was perfected and reached its zenith in Christie's "And Then There Were None".
Bear Island is nowhere near that class.Also, there is a Bollywood film "Khamosh" (1985) loosely adapted from the plot of Bear Island.
I actually finished this book two months ago.
I've read some of MacClean's books before and enjoyed each one.
However, this book was a huge chore to slog through.
The critics raved that this was one of his best stories.
I beg to differ.
I really didn't enjoy this story at all.
Not only was it hard to follow but there were two characters with the same first name.
This made it exceptionally tiring trying to figure out which Mary was being talked about.
And when the two characters were in the same scene I had no idea what was going on.
I cannot recommend this book.
This was one of the first Alistair MacLean books that I read back as youngster in the 1970's. I enjoyed it then and having just re-read it I still find it as enjoyable. I know some criticize MacLean for being dated but what do they expect, this book was written in 1971 and he was a product of his time and that is going to be reflected in his work so cut him some slack and enjoy the tale. This is a particular favourite of mine, fast moving with plenty of twists and turns.
Classic MacLean (author Alistair, not Die Hard John) set in the frozen north with the usual one man against the odds (perhaps he should have written Die Hard scripts?) As usual he really brings the surroundings to life, and the chill of the wind can be felt by the reader. Good plot. Interesting characters. Good twists. A perfect thriller, beautifully executed.
A pot-boiler thriller about a film crew going to an Artic island. Really they are a Nazi group of criminals trying to recover stolen items left over from WWII. Plotting is good enough if the story is trite. I loved MacLean as a kid so I thought I'd read some now to see if I still liked them. Not as much as before, but still pretty good stuff.
I found this a very difficult book to get into. Lots of really uninteresting stuff going on and it took about 120 pages before I was given even a hint of why people were being murdered. I do not recommend this book.
Unable to get "into" this novel...too many extraneous details, not enough "meat". Sorry. After 50 or so pages I had no interest in continuing.
Not MacLean's best work, and a pretty poor movie with Donald Sutherland, by the way.
Not his best work.An oddly unfocused story with too many characters and a rather silly plot. Struggled to finish it and would not recommend that you start.
Gripping story ...
I hesitate to use the word "strong" because it seems like that has almost become un-politically correct these days...which is a separate topic of discussion altogether...personally I like strong, human, female characters...or male characters, for that matter.But out of a cast of characters so huge, and so many of them only vaguely described that I had a very difficult time keeping them all straight, there were only three female characters, and all of them were written with such contempt and derision that I can only deduce that it is a reflection of the author's view on women.
Being bit over the head with the solution to a murder mystery is not really my cup of tea.All that being said...I probably would read this book again, just for the aforementioned exploration and adventure.
The narrator is Doctor Marlowe, hired to be the physician on site for Olympus Productions Ltd., as they take a converted fishing trawler to Bear Island to film a picture for which only two members of the production actually know the script.
More deaths follow upon landing on Bear Island, and these are obviously murders.
But nobody in the cast, or Dr. Marlowe, are who they initially present themselves to be, and there may be more than one sinister plot at work.Glad I read the story, but I would not say this is MacLean at his best.
This is a sentimental favorite of mine. It's a good adventure story, well worth owning and re-reading for fun.
He is the medical man working for a film crew who are destined for Bear Island, an isolated setting in the Barents Sea where they will film scenes for a movie.
The cast and crew are travelling in “Morning Rose”, a converted fishing trawler making its way through stormy seas when suddenly people begin to die from mysterious circumstances.
This is at first a little frustrating, as the reader wonders why Marlowe is so far ahead of us in getting to the bottom of the mystery.
Details from beginning to end MacLean styleHighly recommended, a must read for all detail enjoyment readers. Build up the plot with need to know background and then put it all together.
The film crew's doctor, Dr. Marlowe, suspects murder.
When the Capt wants to take the ship to another location to have the murder's investigated, Marlowe sides with Gerran to have them still brought to Bear Island where the final events will be acted out.There are many suspects, many victims.
Is it a treasure hunt?Marlowe is an interesting character and there are many sympathetic characters in the story as well; Smithy, who leaves the ship and hides on the island; Mary Stuart, the 'Latvian' girl who Marlowe likes but who may or may not be involved; the loving couple, Allen and Mary 'darling'.
He said it was an interesting book and that he was over halfway through and wanted to find out who the murderer was but couldn't because:Jake had committed the crime of leaving the book in the family room on the TV and his mother confiscated it.
His mother wanted to punish him since he wasn't supposed to leave his things anywhere in the house except his bedroom.
The ransom wasn't much, maybe 3 bucks or something, but Jake, being a junior high student in the 70's didn't happen to have the fee and therefore couldn't finish the story.
This was another used book store bargain.
The needless padding and recurrent use of overly ostentatious words just kept me from getting any reading rhythm.
The story line seemed thin and I had to constantly go back and reread paragraphs to find out who and what was actually being said and who said them.
It seemed to drag on and on and it took me longer to read this relatively short book than a much thicker readable one.
Enough already with the booze, sir, how about the story?
Hardly worth the time to consume this forgettable bargain basement special.

And the narrator is interesting, and it’s fun to listen to him as he works through his suspicion of everyone and goes over the evidence for and against everyone, trying to figure out what is going on.
So, even though it brings out the tension between the characters, there are times when there doesn’t seem to be much going on.
It is a mystery but there is really no way that you could possibly figure it out because there is too much you just don’t know.
There are a lot of others books out there that are probably more worthy of your time.
This was my very first Alistair MacLean novel, and I've since read it many, many times. I love a good mystery, especially one with an exotic background-a barren island in the Barents Sea can't be beaten. And even in spite of knowing the mystery of "whodunit", the suspense never ceases to thrill me! Sure, the dialogue seems a bit woody at time, but given the context of the story and the narrator, this is easily forgiven. For me, this is classic MacLean!
A good mystery post World War II, in the coldenss and darkness of the Artic environment, where the killer of many people aboard the "Morning Rose" and later in Bear Island, Norway, was a surprise for me; I didn't expect who were the master mind and the executioners of these killings. A page turner, cold, harsh, raw and descriptive work of the circumstances and perceptions of the narrator and character Dr. Marlowe. Enjoyed it up until the last page of the book.
