https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7770.One_Fish_Two_Fish_Red_Fish_Blue_Fish
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars for One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish, a children's picture book written in the 1960s by Dr. Seuss. I loved this one as a child, and probably read it around 7 or 8 years old, then again at 10. Between the rhymes and tongue-twisters, it encourages kids to laugh and have fun when reading. Focusing on pets, under water fish are my favorite. All the colors, shapes and sizes. All the things to do with them. Dr. Seuss is a definite children's classic, but with pic
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars for One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish, a children's picture book written in the 1960s by Dr. Seuss.
I loved this one as a child, and probably read it around 7 or 8 years old, then again at 10.
Dr. Seuss is a definite children's classic, but with pictures and movies being made, it helps bring it all full circle.
I love buying these books for my friend's children, then sitting to read with them.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
This is the first book I ever read out loud to my mom by myself.
Because of this, it will always have a special place in my heart.
We had just moved to Illinois.
I kept asking my mom to read to me, but she was busy unpacking boxes.
She said, "Sound out the words, just like I showed you, and you can do it yourself."So in my determined little way I said, "Fine." Later that afternoon, I read it to her.
She was shocked.
She kept grabbing books off the shelf to test me, thinking I'd memorized them.
It earns its place as one of the most quotable (possibly only Green Eggs and Ham is more often quoted) and fun to read aloud (after only Fox in Socks), but it stays firmly in the middle tier because it lacks three things:  1) The classic Dr Seuss creations.
This may be all in interpretation (no one suggests that Giessel intended these), but many readers for decades have found the Seuss books' repetition and variation of a theme to serve as a metaphor or direct example of something universal.
Another ball out of the canon from Dr. Seuss. “From there to here, from here to there, funny things are everywhere!”  Simply remarkable with the tongue twister of a rhythm. Enjoyment knows no bounds and age is just a number. The tune of this poem is hard to get out of the head.  ALL YOUR LIFE! I am reading this to my kids. No more the simple 4 lines of Humpty Dumpty.Dr. Seuss has arrived in their lives.
4 Awesome-sauce ★'s “Today is gone. Today was fun.Tomorrow is another one.Every day,from here to there,funny things are everywhere!” This picture book is from the 1960's and is by none other than the genius Dr. Seuss himself. It's perfect for reading aloud with its simple words, its easy to read with a known vocabulary, colors and short tales and superb rhyming which makes it a tone of fun for people of all ages. Per his usual, Dr. Seuss's books are always whimsical and witty. One Fish, Two Fish
This picture book is from the 1960's and is by none other than the genius Dr. Seuss himself.
It's perfect for reading aloud with its simple words, its easy to read with a known vocabulary, colors and short tales and superb rhyming which makes it a tone of fun for people of all ages.
Per his usual, Dr. Seuss's books are always whimsical and witty.
One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish is absolutely perfect for teaching children some numbers and colors.
Really this is such a fun read and your little ones will LOVE it :)
The beginning of the tale focuses on...you guessed it...fish.
Pages and pages of fish with various characteristics (mostly harmless) are paraded before the reader in flashes of color and humor.
But then (and this is where Dr. Seuss lost a star rating from me) the story veers off and begins introducing a random cast of beings more strange than an assortment of beasties rejected from a circus of the bizarre for being too grotesque for the relatively polite society of carnies.
Take "Ned" for example.
Ned does not fit in his bed, not his feet nor his head.
More fun for the younger reader from the pen of Dr Seuss - lovely rhymes and illustrations as per usual and lots of fun.
WrensReads Review:Rhymes Rhymes Rhymes, My My MyDr. Seuss is a classic and a poet and... no, I'm not going to be that cliché.There wasn't much lesson with this one like some that he has, or purpose really. I think really he wanted to show kids that your imagination is important. Because obviously a lot of the things said are impossible, but the impossible is fun, you know? It is important to be impossible.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
All girls who liketo brush and combshould have a petlike this at home...
There are so many Dr. Seuss books that I love. One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish was a childhood favorite for sure. It still remains a treasure because the simple words and rhymes encourage children to read and they love it. Children love the colorful illustrations too. 5*****
https://twogalsandabook.com/ One of our favorite children's book. My grand daughter easily read this alone, and enjoyed it very much.
Maybe its for kids, but its not for me for sure..
When I reach for a Dr. Seuss, One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish is never the book I reach for.
If I need something quick because the kids are late for bed, I grab The Sneetches and pick a tale.
When two year old Scoutie wants a book, I grab the easiest Seuss of them all, Hop on Pop (just as I did when the twins were babes).
But if my kids grab it, and Scoutie's been doing that a lot lately, I'll gladly traverse the bizaare landscape of One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish.
the kids love it, and Scoutie can't get enough.
3.0 stars. Another clever, original Children's story by the legendary Dr. Seuss. Not his best, but still great to read with the kids.
We are reading through all of his books and have landed on my all time favorite: One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish.
From the time I was Harriet's age to being in second or third grade, I read this book on an almost daily basis.
Witnessing these different examples of silly are a boy and a girl (or a Sean and a Harriet as my children see things).
There are animals for opening cans, and others for boxing, ones who have hair for brushing and so forth.In all of this silliness are Dr. Seuss's illustrations.
ya gotta love dr. seuss
I rapped this book in front of a LOT of people last year. The "nook cook book" was a challenge, but I pulled it off quite nicely, I think.
i know everyone will probably hate me for not liking this but it is a pain to read to your child - a bunch of nonsense words rhyming does not always entertain - and in this case neither me or caroline were entertained.
The rhyming and tongue twisters are a great way to introduce young readers to the way that words can be used.
The illustrations of weird and wonderful creatures are whimsical and a great way for children to use their imagination.
Being presented with creatures that are not real can sometimes be a challenge for younger readers, but I believe that this can a great way to start conversations with children about the characters.
Finding out what they think these creatures might be, what they do, how they make them feel.
All in all a fantastic book for readers both young and old.
This is one of my favorites!
No es que sea malo, es que simplemente no me encanto. Se me hizo repetitivo y la descripción de los peces no me emocionó. Puede que sólo sea que me agarro en un mal momento.
Another great book by Dr. Seuss
My almost two year old falls asleep to this almost every day. Easy rhymes and lulling as hell!
I had heard some raving reviews about this book from 'ole Goodreads and although as a child myself I was never a fan I thought I would give it a go.
So, when I discovered the book and film The Grinch which is one of my favourites, and saw this book innocently laying on the table I thought that this was an opportunity to great to miss.
I read this book and although I enjoyed it very much it just didn't have the charm of the Grinch for me.
Maybe it is for even younger children than the Grinch but there was just something missing.
Who doesn't like Dr. Seuess? Even my 18-month-old picks this book over her previous favorites, wanting to read this book cover-to-cover (an amazing feat for an 18-month-old to sit still that long) at least twice in a row.
I loved a classic.
A childhood favorite that is still as wondrous to me as an adult. I love reading it to my little son!
MY Favorite Dr. Suess book. I actually have the entire book memorized, my girls get a kick out of me reciting it! One of my many useless talents thank you! :)
fuck you, book, you're like 30 pages too long
Having been a kindergarten teacher plus having 3 children of my own I do believe I have read every Dr. Seuss book. We even had a Dr. Seuss day on which we made green eggs and ham. His books are all part of "must read" for children.
