https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158141.Wiseguy

Funny like I'm a clown?
For those of you who may not know (um, have you been living under a rock, and how did you find this book?!) “Wiseguy” by Nicholas Pileggi published in 1985 is the basis for Martin Scorcese’s gangster epic: “GoodFellas” (1990).
It’s the only time in my reading experience where I’ve read and thoroughly enjoyed the book after seeing the movie, and believe me, I’ve seen the movie countless times.
I always recommend reading the book first or the movie will mar the reading experience.
For all the books I’ve read where I saw the movie first I always end up hating the book.
See, I told you the movie and book review would sound the same.
“Wiseguy” tells the story of the life of career criminal Henry Hill, well known in the film “Goodfellas,” which is based upon this book.
As with many books that go to films, the inner details add depth to Hill’s story and give the reader a better feel for the disturbing and violent life he lead.
I don’t believe the book is to make the reader sympathetic with Hill; instead it’s telling the story of his unconventional life that’s quite a miracle he survived on hindsight.
For fans of crime books, and for fans of “Goodfellas” don’t let the film do all the talking.
Henry's heyday takes place during the 1960s and 1970s when he works under the protection of mob boss Paul Vario in the Brownsville-East New York section of Brooklyn.Has there ever been a great disparity between a book and a film adaptation?This is not to suggest that 'Wiseguy' (aka 'GoodFellas') is anything other than a good book, it’s just that the film is a masterpiece, and so much more than just this book brought to life on the screen.'GoodFellas' the film is a work of art which takes the wonderful little incidental lines and vignettes in the book and frequently makes them into something magical.
I think this could have been a very jarring book had I not seen the movie Goodfellas so many times I practically have it memorized.
As with the Godfather book/film, Goodfellas is an extremely faithful representation of Wiseguy.As many people have pointed out previously, what sets this book apart is the outright bluntness in the delivery.
It wastes no time trying to water the cold, hard facts down or romanticize the lifestyle of a mafioso.
We're talking about people who would murder their best friends and probably not feel too guilty about it afterward.
Based on evidence given while going into the witness protection program, this is a gritty view of what it is actually like to be a 'Wise Guy' or Mafia thug.
I was amazed & repelled by the book.
Unlike the Godfather which made a hero out of such men & touted a loyalty & honor throughout the ranks, this book shows the actual setup.
How self-interest rules their lives & how little empathy they have.
I didn't like the book or the subject, but it was well written & worth reading.
I just find the idea of people leeching off society the way they do repugnant.
Watched my favorite movie "Goodfellas" based on this book several times.
But if someone watches the movie, the book is waste of time in my opinion.
The movie is a total honest representation of the book.
The experience was totally different from reading a Mafia Fiction (i.e. The Godfather, The Sicilian, Omerta etc).
When I read The Godfather, I don't know from where it came, but a strange sympathy worked for the Mafia.
But when I read this book, I came across to know about Mafia (the real Mafia) that it's totally different from what I read in those fictions.
A deeper look into the story of Henry Hill and his life and involvement with the New York City Mafia from the 1950s-90s. The beginning of the book is nearly exactly like its film version (Goodfellas, a classic in my opinion), but if you keep going the story takes new turns not shown in the film, with additional schemes and characters. I enjoyed the different perspectives, with narratives from the writer, Karen (Henry's wife), FBI detectives, and mostly Henry himself. If you have an interest in learning about organized crime, this book is a must. Hard to put down!
After reading this book I am sure going to watch the movie goodfellas(as also it has a high rating on IMDb). Talking about the biography it was a great ride, I enjoyed reading this book. And I am sure you will too!
It displays an interesting outlook,Mob movies books characters have fascinated the world for so long and its the belief that their is another world more exhilarating and exciting fast paced and the common person is just looking to escape the real world into a book or another life.
“Wiseguy” is not just a fast paced exciting book but you actually experience feeling of the association of the mafia.
Overall a great book , Keeps moving but always showing emotion a mix of all emotions, Displaying passion,family,blood,love, and death real true gore forced death and ceasing to exist on paper.
Wiseguy was a fascinating read for so many reasons.
The biographical account of low-level mafia man Henry Hill was the inspiration for the classic movie Goodfellas.
Like the movie, the book takes us inside the life of a gang of criminals who made their money every illegal way imaginable - from stick ups, to rigging NCAA basketball games, to robberies, to insurance fraud, etc.
I found it fascinating that the movie really followed the book and that much of the narration in the movie was directly from the book, and that these were quotes directly from Henry Hill and his wife Karen.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099685
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0099685
Henry the rat finka real coked up piece of workjust watch the movie.
Same old, same old..., over-rated. Or just not as good, maybe, as the movie.
The music would have killed him.Pileggi's book traces the life of Henry Hill through all his scheming and swindling, from earning a few pennies delivering sandwiches to poker players to stealing cigarette trucks, and on to stealing millions of dollars' worth of cash and other goods from Kennedy Airport.
It is sobering to see how anything is stealable in their world, and how little faith these people have in ownership.It is also hair-raising to read this book and learn how these mobsters would just identify a target, be it Italian scarves, a truck of booze, or a load of mink furs, and they'd just go and grab it.
The book is about working class Italian and Irish gangsters in Brooklyn, starting from their early days in the 1950s to their fall in the 70s and 80s, told through the eyes of a foot soldier - Henry Hill and his wife Karen.
Pileggi lays things down for us (like the milieu or an important happening) and then lets Henry and Karen Hill talk us through their lives.
But Karen Hill's (who is Jewish and an outsider) account of life as a gangster's wife is probably more important.
They were like animals who woke up in the morning and just went out and stole stuff from people.
Parts of the book were left out of the movie, but Martin used the book to tell the story on film the way he wanted to : to make you fall in love with the lifestyle and get you comfortable with the guys in the crew, then show you that you while these guys were your friends, you had to be careful around them, and finally, just exactly how scary your closest friends and associates could be if you were a threat to their freedom or way of life.The book demonstrates all of these things in much greater detail, because with a book, it takes longer to read and you are less likely to get confused by such a huge cast of characters.
The most surprising aspect of the book is just how true-to-life Scorsese was in his direction of the movie.
Normally, that's not a good thing, but in the case of this book, which I was reading only as a supplement to one of my favorite movies, it was terrific!Interesting tidbit I didn't learn until recently: Pileggi's wife, who is a Hollywood director, received so many calls from the real life Henry Hill, who Pileggi collaborated with to write the book, that she used Hill as inspiration for her 1990 movie My Blue Heaven (which pre-dates Goodfellas).
Another movie to check out for all you Goodfellas, or Scorsese-fiends
There are lots of reviews for this book...
This is a wonderful book if you like mobsters.
A lot of reviews say watch the movie and I can't disagree ...
Martin Scorsese is a genius and the screen play used great chunks of the book.
And Henry Hill is absolutely fascinating...If you like the movie Goodfellas and want to see another film with many of the same actors I strongly recommend Cop Land https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118887/...
Useless trivia why was a book titled Wiseguy released as a movie called Goodfellas?
because there was a TV show called Wiseguy which was plot wise closer to Donny Brasco https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0092484/...
This is the story of Henry Hill, a close associate of Paul Vario, a capo in the Lucchese crime family in New York City.
It impresses not in the criminal achievements of Hill, but rather in the breadth of knowledge which Hill provides of the mafia way of life - what is entailed in living the life of a wiseguy.Comparisons with the film of the same name are inevitable but I tried to avoid this common pitfall.
the film is slick, star studded, well acted and with innovative and highly effective camera work.

This has to be one of the best books I've read about gangsters, the mafia. I've read this book twice. I read it years ago before the movie Goodfellas came out and I've seen that movie so many times! It has become one of my favourite movies. Its not often a movie can be as good as the book but this is definitely the case
Through the years of Henry working with the Vario family, he learned how to run shops, do business (good and bad), and he learned how to get stuff done in a way no else could do.
Henry and all of the Vario family gets put in prison for the biggest heist in American history, the “Lufthansa Heist,” that took place at the JFK airport in 1978 with $5 million in cash and $875,000 in jewelry.
The book Wiseguy is a fantastic biography written by Nicholas Pileggi about one of the most secret and dangerous mobsters in all of New York, Mr. Henry Hill.
Everyone has their own unique mindset, and out of curiosity, it’s cool to get into someone else’s for a while.
Yes, it’s a truer story—more violent, and not as sanitized for the purpose of storytelling.
However, I don’t love dry non-fiction, and this was pretty dry.
The book was organized well and it wasn’t long, but it dealt with a seemingly endless string of murders and thefts, both of which don’t interest me in mafia stories.
I also feel that fictional accounts of the mafia work because they make the characters more dimensional.
Also, I hate reading about infidelity, so at several points during this I felt very uncomfortable.
Borrowed from a friend and was happy with the book A Good-fellas Story by Henry Hills Life story alot more in depth and alot more then the movie told... Very nice subject and was happy to read it.
A fascinating and almost unbelievable story about a remarkable mobster. An enjoyable book.
The basis for the movie Goodfellas. Provides some more detail than the movie. A must read if you are into this sort of thing.
Like so many others, I was drawn to this book because of the movie.
I had happened upon some Youtube videos of the star actors, closer to present day, talking about making the movie.
Always a fan, I had seen it several time, but Ray Liotta was commenting about the book in the interview and it piqued my curiosity.
As amazing as that movie is, the book (of course) is better.
How can a world such as the one created by the mob, regardless of the violence and harshness, be seen as anything else?
Of course, I am reading about it, not living it.
This is a great read.
The climax, as anyone who's seen Martin Scorcese's Goodfellas or read the back jacket of the book knows, is that Henry is caught, turns rat, and narrowly avoids death before selling all of his key associates up the river (minus the dozen or so who were already murdered).But far more interesting than the destination is the terrain, specifically what exactly your day-to-day is like when you've spent your entire life within a subculture of murderous sociopaths who can't trust each other and, even within that dangerous space, every decision you make is entirely id-driven, of the moment, and made under the influence of Quaaludes, cocaine, and red wine.
