https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319033.The_Corinthian
The banter is witty, the hero capable and charming, the heroine brave and feisty, and I was pretty much unmoved by it all.It's a cute and humorous plot: Sir Richard Wyndham is just about to enter into an engagement with the cold woman everyone expects him to marry, and has gotten very drunk to drown his unhappiness.
Pen thinks she's going to go formalize her 5 year old unofficial engagement to Piers Luttrell, an old buddy of hers (so she was 12 when she was hanging out and making a youthful marriage pact with this 16 year old boy?
Maybe I'll give it another shot when I'm more in the mood for that kind of story.
(view spoiler)[I felt like the love angle was just written as an afterthought where Richard suddenly confesses his love for Pen -- when the book is almost about to end.
(hide spoiler)] I wished the motivation of the characters were properly rendered, or maybe, the romance angle should have just been scrapped and I still think the story would have been delightful.
But like I said, I was entertained and it’s very likely that I will revisit this adventure in the future.“The Corinthian” may not be a good choice for a romance fix, but I think it makes for a fun, light-hearted read.
There is still a little bit of explanation of activities like Boxing the Watch, whereas in later books she is confident we are totally in her world.On this particular read, I gulped the book down in one day (it is one of GH's shorter works) IMO that is the way to do it, as there are a few issues that I find highly improbable.
But the great charm of the hero & heroine & the breakneck speed of the story carry things for me.Also, the scapegrace Ceddie is one of my favourite of Gh's secondary male characters & the book just sparkles every time he is on the page.Yes, there is an age difference.
Georgette Heyer is my go-to author when I want something well written, light hearted and witty to read. She never disappoints.The Corinthian is one of my favourites. I liked Sir Richard immensely, and Pen was funny and charming and had me laughing out loud at times.There were many interesting secondary characters that appealed to me as well. I didn't find the "thieves cant" a problem as some other readers did. I think the story was better for including it.A quick and enjoyable read.
I really liked The Corinthian.Unlike some of Heyer's other stories where you have to wait until everyone and their mother is introduced (and their situation), there aren't any delays here.
The introduction to Sir Richard and his family's wishes is done in a couple of pages.
If you pay attention, from the first moment you see that Sir Richard is not happy.
You see he wishes for something more.Penelope and Sir Richard's first encounter happens very soon and it is one of the loveliest I've read so far.
I wish I could list all the funny moments in this book.
The blurb, focusing as it does on the innocence of Penn, tends to put me off this book, but the story itself is a great deal of fun. Penn is a little naive, but she's also the sort of girl who reacts to being in a stage coach accident with delight at the adventure.By putting on a boy's clothes, Penn gets to participate in the adventures as well, and greets almost every circumstance with unimpaired good spirits. I particularly enjoy her opinion of her former swain and his new inamorata.
I've given this an A+ for narration and B+ for content at AAR, so probably nearer 5 stars than 4.One of the best things about listening to new audio versions of older books is becoming reacquainted with stories I read many more years ago than I care to count!
She’s got gumption and a degree of self-awareness that makes her seem a little more mature.There’s a wonderful cast of supporting characters, from the cant-spouting jewel thief to the insipid young woman Pen’s friend is determined to marry, and the various members of Richard’s almost-fiancée’s family.
She and Cedric are the life of the book and I just wish the plot had been a a bit different so I could enjoy it more.
Anyway, go into this book expecting bizarre, ridiculous and unrealistic but humorous adventures with a wild young chap called "Pen" PG nearly no violence,few swears and the only thing bumping this up to a PG is that some people may not like that at the end the hero kisses Penelope who is still in boys cloths in front of a stagecoach full of people.
2018 Re-ReadI generally find Heyer covers don't match the book, but this one seems particularly egregious.
Gah!As usual, I found re-reading this book just made it better.
He has all the charms of the usual Heyer Hero without their defects (aka, an eye for the petticoat line.) He has friends, has a believable sense of humor, and in general is quite the romantic.
Alverstoke and Charles may want to watch out...I've found a new Heyer Hero Favorite.
Pen isn't always my favorite, but Sir Richard Wyndham is terrific.
Truly, a must read for Heyer lovers.
Lots of smiles for this light-hearted romp, even before the ingenue climbs out a window disguised as a boy. And there's stolen diamonds, too! :D
Later, after getting ultimately drunk, he wanders the streets of London and wallows in self-pity, until he catches a girl, seventeen-year-old Pen Creed, dangling out of a window of her aunt’s house on a too short a sheet.
Pen, disguised as a boy, is set on avoiding a distasteful marriage to her cousin, who “has a face like a fish.” She wants to have an adventure.From the moment she falls into Richard’s arms, boredom becomes the least of his worries.
Then an irate father of a neighborhood beauty accuses Pen, who is still dressed as a boy, of trifling with his innocent daughter.
If you've ever read Oscar Wilde's "The Importance of Being Earnest" and have seen Julie Andrews play Maria von Trapp in "The Sound of Music," then you know you'll be in for a treat with this book!Several of Wilde's plays were known for their remarkable wit and comical plot twists and in "The Corinthian" Heyer matches, and quite possibly surpasses, these wonderfully.
Couple that with Heyer's classic writing prose and it makes for a fabulous read.The main character, Penelope, is such a hoot too and truly reminds me of Julie Andrews playing Maria von Trapp.
The youth turns out to be a girl, 17 year old Pen Creed who is running away from her aunt's in order to escape an unwanted marriage.
Drunk and bored, Richard offers to help Pen return to her old home to find her childhood sweetheart who Pen believes will rescue her by proposing marriage.
There's George, Richard's brother-in-law, who seems like a decent gentleman but is completely henpecked!
Richard and Pen meet a number of characters along the way.
Richard and Pen also run into a Captain Trimble, an evil man who makes trouble for all the characters.
A very sweet and jolly Heyer novel.This is one of her earlier romances.
Yet, I thoroughly enjoyed it; I think it may be one of my favourite Heyer regencies because it is so sweet and the characters are so likeable.
Innocent and brave heroine Pen and handsome and honourable hero Richard are both charmers and I was thoroughly rooting for their love story.
That's the danger with Heyer - she sometimes oversteps the mark from sharp to spiteful, and some of her main characters can be rather shallow and nasty people.
But not here, these two are lovely.
Yes, her book are a little predictable [I mean her romances].
One can also find many similarities in characters from different books.
I have read eight novels [romances] by Georgette Heyer.
I classify her books into three groups: the best ["The Grand Sophy", "These Old Shades", "Devil's Cub"], really good ["Arabella", "Venetia", "The Corinthian"] and good ["Frederica", "Friday's Child"].
It isn't typical for Heyer romances.
(hide spoiler)]It isn't "The Grand Sophy" with her twists and many great characters [and that end!].
It isn't "These Old Shades" or "Devil's Cub" with brilliant male-heroes who make you like those types.
I really really liked it, but I didn't get the same kind of satisfactory and awesome feeling I got after reading "The Black Moth" and "Powder and Patch" by the same author.
The story, although good, seemed too unbelievable, which made the characters appear awkward as a whole, though I loved them individually.
Sir Richard was a perfect, Heyer-typical hero and I thought the character of Penelope to be vastly entertaining.
Also, the ending did not feel conclusive at all, I felt like a whole chapter was missing!Overall, I still strongly recommend it, but wouldn't recommend as a Heyer first read.
The fashionable Sir Richard Wyndham is desperately seeking a way out of offering marriage to the icy Melissa Brandon.
Richard, passing by, rescues her and very quickly sees through her disguise.
He eventually helps her improve her disguise and the two go off together as uncle and nephew (or tutor and student, or any of several other ruses) on a journey to return Penelope to her home, where she thinks she will be welcomed with open arms.Along the way we encounter an odd variety of fellow travellers, jewel thieves and murder.
There is also hilarious dialogue and a bit of romance.
I will need to review this one at another. Did not finish the audio in time. I was more lively than reading it with all the voices.
I had a good time on the re-read.
) The delightful surprise was that Richard had a sense of humor and a boyish taste in adventure.
This being an early GH Regency, she crammed as many of those minor characters into the action as she could--somewhat to the detriment of the story.
All the attention on the elopement (of two of the sappiest young lovers ever) and the convoluted stolen necklace subplot came close to obscuring the very sweet romance unfolding between Pen and Richard.This still is not one of my favorites, but at least now I do think more kindly of it.
Another Georgette Heyer romance that's more a comedy of manners and would make a great play.
Another May/December couple, although here it might be May/October.
Another abrupt ending as the hero and heroine share their first kiss.
Cute story, but I don't dig chicks-in-pants very much.
But -- I'm awarding an extra star because of the stellar narration by Georgina Sutton, who sounds like she was having a blast with this one.
She has a wide variety of voices to fit the many characters who appear in this novel, and each one was just right.As with Black Sheep, listening is way more fun than reading.
Love Georgette Heyer but this novel wasn’t one of my favorites. Didn’t feel like the two belonged together.
One of my favorite Heyers. It involves the urbane, cultured hero-young, unconventional heroine combination, and its done very well here. Penelope Creed literally falls into Richard Wyndham's life late one night, determined to run away from an oppressive marriage to a creepy cousin to find shelter with an old friend of hers. Richard decides to run away with her, as there is a marriage of his own he would like to escape. Hijinx in the form of cross-dressing, escaped criminals, mistaken identity and saving people from their own dramatics ensue.
Enjoyable.I like the way this author uses sooo much dialogue. It’s good.The audiobook narrator Georgina Sutton was good - even though she had some weirdness in some of the voices.DATA:Narrative mode: 3rd person. Swearing language: none. Sexual content: none. Setting: England. Book copyright: 1940. Genre: historical romance.
That was delightful!
Less romantic than some of Heyer's other stories but what it lacks in romance, it makes up for with adventure in spades.
I'm a sucker for a girl who attempts to pass for a boy in order to escape some hideous fate, and Penn's story was rather adorable in this way.
And Richard, oh, how he endeared himself to me as her protector, despite running away from a distasteful fate himself.
There's just nothing quite like reading a Georgette Heyer novel.
It saddens me to no end that I've nearly come to the end of my library/Hoopla's offerings.
Not one of my favourite GH novels...
Pen was a very delightful heroine, and I felt Heyer did a much better job developing the budding romance between Pen and Richard then she did with the main characters in Faro's Daughter.The plot was engaging and well maintained throughout the book, full of the types of adventures you'd expect to find in a regency (i.e. struggles against marriages of convenience, a bored yet lonely dandy, a girl disguised as a boy).
I did have a bit of a problem trying to understand some of the thief "cant" from the character of Jimmy Yarde, but kudos to Heyer for having it in there - it added to the period feel, although it was fairly incomprehensible to my 2009 American ears!
Quite a bit of fun.
The fun lies in the plot getting more and more complicated.
I prefer a Frederica or The Grand Sophy -- a more established female character running a life of her own, who can stand on her own two feet, independent from the romantic interest.
Too many times Pen asks Richard, “Oh, what ever will we do now?” And he promptly takes over the plot.
Get your head squared on your shoulders, girl.I think Pen and Richard got some more development toward the end, but this is not my favorite pairing.
Enjoyed it more for the plot and style than the characters.
I am trying out the new romance package on Audible. And the best part for me is listening to all the Heyer books available in this package ;-)This was very funny, very sweet and light. Not realistic at all. But exactly what I needed at that time of the year. Escapism in its purest form. The narration was very good, although the voice actor did not have the talent for doing realistic male voices. She compensated by making all the voices very distinctive and by showing the feelings behind the words.
Have I mentioned that I love Georgette Heyer? Her books are just absolutely sweet, darling things. I loved this one, and I loved the ending of this book. Absolutely sweet. I just loved it.
She is avoiding an inevitable marriage to her cousin, who has the face of a fish.
Along comes Sir Richard Wyndham, whose family is trying to force him into a loveless marriage.
Sir Richard juggles roles.
Murder!The Corinthian of the title is Sir Richard.
My only criticism is regarding Sir Richard’s term of endearment for Pen, which is “brat”.
So everytime he calls her brat, it draws attention to the age difference.
I don’t actually think the 11 years is a problem but by calling her a brat, it implies he’s an adult and she’s a child.
