https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402739.Burglars_Can_t_Be_Choosers
The lead detective is as funny as Bernie himself.Berney is a character not duplicated in many other cozies - I like the charm of them but this one brings a punch of fun, something different, a crossing of the moral lines, a little humor, first person POV.I have to say this book has the funniest cozy body discovery I've read about - ever.
Looking back it makes sense but it's not something I noticed, so mystery kudos to the author.If you enjoy fun but not obnoxiously sweet/sappy humor mysteries, you may like this one.
Can Bernie figure out who really killed the man in the bedroom and avoid jail?Lawrence Block is one of my favorite writers, but for some reason, I’ve never fallen completely in love with his Bernie Rhodenbarr series.
They’re as well written as anything else he’s done, and as usual, Block creates an interesting main character in New York and then populates the books with a variety of unique supporting players.
I think my issue may be that the series is more about Bernie playing amatuer slueth than Bernie being a burglar.
This would also explain why I like Donald Westlake’s humorous books about New York thief John Dortmunder better than Bernie.
It just wasn't a very good Lawrence Block book.
Or maybe the sub-genre I don't seem to care for is the more specific, innocent man wrongly suspected blah blah blah and hilarity ensues.
I do love Lawrence Block, and I might give another book or two in this series a try, but reading through the descriptions of the next couple in the series they all seem to be the same basic plot.
And it's the characters that generally do it for me in Block's books.
Not quite as great as Scudder, but still phenomenal.
I've become accustomed to the darker side of Block through Matt Scudder and the incredibly bleak Grifter's Game but Bernie lets his lighter side shine, always ready with a witty line and a writing style that highlights the authors joy of words.Bernie is gentleman burglar, who happens to be discovered at the scene of his latest crime by a pair of dubiously honest cops, his attempts to talk his way out of a bust are halted by the discovery of a dead body in the apartment.
Pues me ha gustado; mucho... Será cuestión de leerse el segundo 😊
Bernie is not a violent thief, he prefers the five or six odd jobs a year and spend his free time in relaxation.
He is the kind who lives in a respected NY high rise, relaxes with a scotch and a good book in his hand ( I have respect for a burglar who in his collection of books has Edward Gibbons's  The decline and fall of the Roman Empire  and The Guns of August ).
Rather than an intellectual exercise, this is the kind of mystery to spend a lazy afternoon immersed in.
Bernie Rhodenbarr breaks into an apartment while the owner is out to steal a blue leather box and make a quick five large.
Only the apartment owner is home and quite dead, and the cops burst in while Bernie is there.
Bernie goes on the run and sets out to clear his name with the help of an oddly helpful girl named Ruth.
Can Bernie clear his name before he is apprehended for murder?Lawrence Block put together an interesting mystery in this one, one involving actors, actresses, blackmail, and dirty cops.
This is the first book in the series, but it's the last book I've read; I seem to have read the whole series in a totally random order. There are, I think, ten books in all, plus a few short stories. They all have basically the same plot. Boring? No, far from it. I love the characters in this series, it's light and funny and in Bernie Rhodenbarr I think he's created one of the very best. About time for an addition to the series I think, LB.
Back in the late 1970s, however, Lawrence Block introduced a less-bad bad boy: gentleman burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr, who debuted in this novel just a year after Block's other best-known series character, alcoholic ex-cop Matthew Scudder.In this story, Bernie accepts a job burgling an Upper East Side apartment.
The story is told through his eyes and voice; as first-person narrators go, he's quite normal except for his occupation.Written in 1977, Bernie's (like Scudder's) New York City is the pre-cleanup, pre-Disneyfication version.
I've read many of the books in this series, but for some reason, I'd never read the first one. This was probably my least favorite of them all, as Bernie (the burglar of the title) hasn't yet bought his antiquarian bookstore and we've not yet met the recurring secondary characters I really enjoy. But I definitely recommend the series if you're looking for a (mostly) light, sometimes humorous, escape type crime novel without any gore or much violence. Which I seem to be addicted to lately.
Bernie is a nice guy who is just trying to get by in NYC like everyone else.
His profession is as a burglar & he's a pretty good one, well liked by his neighbors ("Who cares if you take from the rich east side?
He has a good thing going until his job is connected to a murder.
Then Bernie has to figure out who the murderer is or else he's going to go away for it & he doesn't want to go back to prison again.
The company is atrocious.The murder mystery is convoluted & wrapped up nicely at the end.
He's sexist, mildly homophobic and a thief.
Block makes him sympathetic (or at least tries to) by having him be funny, honest about his motivations, averse to violence almost to the point of cowardliness (additionally hating guns) and someone who only steals from the rich - even though there's no giving to the poor involved, as well as making him the victim of false murder charge.Somehow it works; I'm rooting for Bernie to solve the murder and clear his name.Our society is changing fast by the way; this is the mid-nineties for Bernard and there are no mobile phones, nobody has heard of the internet - in fact computers are never even mentioned - and these facts stand out like an elephant in a high street, giving things a quaint air of past times that are not even a 1/4 century past.
Call me crazy but I've decided to re-read the entire burglar series. Started this one at 9:00 A.M. this morning, finished at 4:00 P.M. this afternoon. Trust me, Block is that good. If you read my profile I make no apologies for promoting Lawrence Block. If you haven't read him yet you really should.
I got one of those "Goodreads Deals" emails pitching a good price on the second Rhodenbarr book of the "gentleman burglar" series by Lawrence Block, so I bit.
But then I wanted to read the first in the series where Bernie is introduced to the reader so I bought that one as well, also a good price.
I appreciate being able to find books written in the 70's that may be hard to find otherwise.
I did enjoy this book.
I loved this book.
You can't help but like this burglar - at least I can't!
It's nice to step back in time to where someone has to solve a crime the old fashioned way and doesn't just happen to have a friend who is a hacker and can just hand them all of the information they need to help solve the crime.
And this book - made me stop numerous times and actually say "OMG" while laughing just to go back and reread the line for the pleasure of laughing at the line again.
Quite a romp, a lot of the enjoyment from the burglar/detective having a day job as a bookstore owner.
Tracking down the man who apparently framed him, Bernie gets caught up in a scheme involving blackmail, kinky sex, and lots of money.This is Lawrence’s more light-hearted series, the flip side of Matt Scudder’s gritty rough justice, and it’s an enjoyable “noir lite” leavened with wit and humor, courtesy of Bernie’s wry, self-effacing narration.
The mystery is clever, and although one of the twists requires a rather far-fetched coincidence (of all the apartment buildings in all of New York, she had to walk into mine…), but the solution to the main whodunit was a pleasant surprise.
Bernie is a sympathetic character because he’s intelligent and benevolently self-serving, so I’m not surprised Block went on to write a number of sequels.
I'm glad I read Block's Burglar in the Library, an adventure of Bernie Rhodenbarr's that happens later in the series, first.
If I had read this book, which is the first in the series, first, I likely never would have picked up any others in it.
So now I'm torn, because this book was okay at best, but I really liked the later other one.
Guess I'll have to read the second in the series and see if it is the more refined Rhodenbarr that I met later in the series, instead of this rough-around-the-edges protagonist that I really didn't like.
Sometimes some lightweight reading is required and Block's pleasant and personable gentleman thief seemed like just the right guy for the job. Some snappy clever lines doesn't really make up for the sheer weight of all the interminable exposition. What action there is takes place in various apartments and doesn't quite take me away to a more exciting life, as I sit alone in a similar apartment endeavouring to entertain myself without resorting to alphabetizing my tinned soup.
Check.What's not to love?This, the first of the Bernie Rhodenbarr series by Lawrence Block, was terrifically entertaining.
But with the help of a very attractive young woman and his own incredibly agile mind, Bernie solves the murder mystery, brings justice to bear while absolving himself of the charges, and gets not only one, but two very interesting female companions in the mix.If you like some humor and fast-paced dialogue worthy of an Abbot & Costello routine, you'll enjoy this book.
Bernie doesn't take himself or life too seriously, and neither will the reader while relaxing in the world set up by Block and this rather happy-go-lucky burglar.
Bernie Rhodenbarr is a burglar who is good enough at his trade to make a living and who is able to stay out of trouble, except when Lawrence Block calls him into action in the Rhodenbarr mystery series.
Since Bernie's story, as he tells it, is all in good fun, I couldn't help rooting for him and hoping he stays out of harm's way and out of jail.In Burglars Can't Be Choosers, the first in the series, Bernie has been framed.
And Block's story-telling skills are strong enough for me to try his more serious offerings, say the series about Matthew Scudder, the alcoholic ex-cop.
First of the Bernie Rhodenbarr series by grandmaster Lawrence Block. A nice bridge from Chandler to today's crime fiction, with super smooth prose and plenty of good humor. After you get familiar with Block, reading him is like settling down with a nice end-of-day whiskey.
The very first of Bernie Rhodenbarr's adventures holds up quite well. Light and casual with bright Bernie figuring everything out in the end. Recommended to all Rhodenbarr fans.
I liked the set up for this novel, which introduces us to Bernie Rhodenbarr, a mild-mannered burglar minding his own business (generally speaking) in NYC.
Bernie is another bad-guy protagonist created by Lawrence Block, who seems to have a knack for generating likable lead character criminals.
In this debut, Bernie goes against his instincts and takes on a contract burglary; he's paid $5,000 by a stranger (who happens to know his profession) to steal a blue velvet box (contents unknown) from a rich man's study.
Bernie breaks in but there's no velvet box.
A nice quick read though, and Bernie is funny guy.
In this novel, he tells his story with close attention to details, dry humor, and panache worthy of the best of mystery writers.
Stealing a blue box out of an empty apartment for 5K seemed like easy money, especially for an experienced thief, but when Bernie gets into the apartment, all his plans go haywire.
And incidentally, who killed the poor guy who didn’t have the blue box Bernie was hired to steal.
Of course, Bernie isn’t alone in his predicament: there is a girl in the picture, as mysterious as the pear-shaped man, but at least the girl is on Bernie’s side.
So I heard Lawrence Block's book on writing, Telling Lies For Fun and Profit was good (it is) and picked it up and started reading.
Almost at the same time, my school library had withdrawn THREE of the Bernie Rhodenbarr books so I thought, why not read some of the fiction written by this man?
And I have.This is Bernie #1 (a nice place to start, though the others I have are #3 and #5) and we are introduced to the nice, young man as he is in the process of robbing someone.
Which is, Bernie is a Burglar.
He is a high class Burglar, and never physically hurts folks, has a great rapport with the police department, and just does special jobs.
He has been hired to obtain a certain blue box from a desk, in a posh apartment in New York.
He has just arrived and the police turn up, there has been a call re loud noises and a disturbance, (Bernie has just arrived, and never made a sound).
Bernie has been set up.
Finished, enjoyed this audio book, well read by Mike Jarmus, who brings Bernie to life.
This is the first entry in the Bernie Rhodenbarr series, all of which have "Burglar in their titles.Bernie Rhodenbarr is a young-ish man about town, whose occupation happens to be that of a burglar.
Fortunately, one of them happens to be more than a nodding acquaintance of Bernies.
I'm not altogether sure these sections are included for humor, but they sure were funny to me.The puzzle isn't much, but all the investigation is fairly entertaining.
To be honest, I thought Block was trying to do his own take on Donald Westlake's Dortmunder series, but apparently that isn't the case.
A 3 Star quickie, throwback to the '70's when you needed a phone book to find out how to call someone. Bernie is a "professional" burglar and takes pride in it. No violence, only hit up the folks who can afford to lose. Much fun, some good twists and some clean, off the stage sex. You know, back when romantic trysts were hinted at, had to use your imagination, no full frontal exposure! Take a few hours off and pick this one up.
6 disc audioFor me, I am not a fan of New York City and the colloquial dialect. Two-thirds of this presentation was useless grade C dialogue. This should have been a short story in a mystery anthology, which is where I met Lawrence Block.
