https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9533378-hounded
It's hard for me to read urban fantasy these days and not compare the books to the Dresden files.
When the book is in first person, and the magic wielding badass is also a snarky, sarcastic wise-ass....
it's nigh impossible to avoid putting the two books side-by-side in my mind.
These books are more lighthearted than the Dresden files.
Mind you, when I say I like these differences, it's not because I dislike the way things were handled in Butcher's books.
I'm saying that I like them because those are the things that make these iron Druid books distinct from the Dresden files.
Atticus is living in Arizona and has been off the radar from said jerko for years, but apparently gods or demons, minions, whatever can surf the net and find people.
And Atticus has a werewolf (Hal) and a vampire (Leif) as his attorney's.
Oh and the old widow lady down the street, Mrs. MacDonagh who drinks like crazy, loves Atticus and is okay with him killing stuff and having werewolf friends.
" I have not had my breakfast yet.""Look at it like an all-you-can-eat buffet." I said, and then there was no more time for talking.
ADMIT IT!For the most part, Hounded is a delightful, action-packed urban fantasy novel with plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, interesting characters and witty banter.It's not a perfect novel.
Unfortunately, Hearne realized what an awesome character he'd written and accidentally took that step into making him just a little TOO awesome.
Reading about Atticus standing around pwning yet ANOTHER person with his cool witty banter and incredible intellect eventually becomes a little tiresome.
Characters like Buffy and Captain Mal, whom Atticus is strangely linked to in my mind, are fantastic characters - and what makes them doubly awesome is that they aren't perfect.
The Learning Annex presents a three-session workshop:HOW TO WRITE URBAN FANTASY IN 3 EASY STEPS!Session 1: Uncover Your Inner Shallow Self And Flaunt ItWhy waste time putting energy towards creating depth?
Session 3: The Ancient Path to EnlightenmentThis is a class that reveals techniques that have been taught from time immemorial to connect one to the primal life energy that enlivens the earth, plants, animals, man, and the universe.
This dog will be your guide on your path to making money.
Atticus' inner dialogue is also quite clearly modern-day American and nothing like what you would expect someone who has lived so long to be.
Oh yes, I think 2,100 years is enough for Atticus.
Oh great, dog rape, what a grand way to end the male fantasy book!P.S. Atticus gives Oberon (a DOG) both coffee and tea in this book, both of which are TOXIC to dogs.
I hate to think of the number of idiots who gave their dog coffee or tea after reading this book, or at least thought it was ok!
Ten Things I liked/loved about Hounded and the Whys:1.
Hero is a druid who can also kick butt like nobody's business.
Why, because I love characters who can kick butt, and druids are so mysterious and underutilized in contemporary fantasy.3.
Why, well that goes back to my love of the Irish and the Celts (and mythology in general).
Hearne does it very well here, and not too many books that I've read were set in Arizona.6.
I love werewolves.
Why, because I like to read books with wicked witches!10.This book was laugh out loud funny.
I love to laugh.Bonus: Dang, Atticus has some good lawyers!
Re-read 2017Because Druids are hot!I've been meaning to reread this series (and catch up on missing books) for a while now, but it took my oldest son getting into Urban Fantasy to kick my ass into gear.
I have the next one waiting for me right now, and you can bet your ass I'll be reading it as soon as I can save this review...P.SOn a side note, I loved that Thor was described as a huge douche in this book.
Johnson is nasty tonight.Stevie: I don’t think a speed spell druid could have hit that.Atticus: I don’t think so.Thor: Well, at any rate, a cool urban fantasy with several pantheons described, ghouls, demons, dryads, and werewolves is a fun story.Stevie: Don’t forget witches.Lyn: And don’t forget a bloodsucking vampire as an attorney.Atticus: Ha!
I thought you’d like that.Lyn: Yeah, I loved the part about your lawyers being werewolves and vampires, imagine the fee!Atticus: I described the fee, a wine glass of my vintage 21 century old blood.Stevie: I also liked the magical Celtic sword Fraggle Rock.[all laugh]Thor: How many beers have you had?Stevie: I can’t pronounce all those Gaelic consonants together, sounds like Fraggle Rock.Atticus: Well, I think any reader who liked American Gods or Christopher Moore’s A Dirty Job would like our little tale.Lyn: True, and Hearne has created a gem.
There was never a true dull moment in this book, and it was hard for me to walk away without wanting to read just a few more pages…!
After so much running Atticus is tried of the BS and has finally decided to make a stand, that will involved all his knowledge and magical abilities, his friends, his vampire and werewolf lawyers and a few helpful and not so helpful visits from some gods.
By all accounts Atticus would be like any of one of us when walking down the street, and that gave him his great charm and made me fall hard for him.
i was surpirsed at how much i loved it.the myths are correct and from all over the world.and i loved the dog.re-read still love that dog!!re-re-read i could read this every month if i had too.
On the other hand, it’s a little muddled, has a couple of plot holes, and is occasionally silly to the point of being cheesy.
It’s cool that Atticus is a Druid and gets to use his awesome Druid powers to fight bad guys, and I also like how random Celtic gods keep showing up to mess with him.
(I won’t spoil it.) Oberon’s obsession with Genghis Khan and French poodles also gave me some genuine laughs.Overall, Hounded is funny and entertaining, an enjoyable read despite the problems I have with the overambitious mythology, the plot holes, and the cheesy characters.
Can Atticus escape with his skin, even with a pack of werewolves and a vampire lawyer on his side?I had my eye open for a new urban fantasy series to try once the Dresden Files began tasting like ashes in my mouth.
It turned out to be a pretty good one.Atticus O'Sullivan is a 2000 year old Druid that looks like a tattooed 21 year old.
I liked the way Hearne depicted Atticus' magic and his Druidic abilities set him apart from a lot of other urban fantasy characters.The supporting cast was equally interesting.
Thank you, Milda, for one more great rec ;) “Hounded” is well soaked in Celtic mythology, with some spices from other cultures, also it’s fast-paced, humorous, magical, doggily fantastic and it has a great blend of modern and mythic worlds.
The story is well prepared and I liked that I didn’t need to search some additional info to understand it better.
Maybe a stronger character in the lead, a longer living villain(s)((view spoiler)[there was one great villain with an inexhaustible flow of evil backup, but sadly he died together with all his helpers!
He's an ancient druid and is the kind of sexy in a way you'd find from meeting one of those casual cool guys who knows he's all that, but doesn't seem to really care or pay attention to it.This book is an action filled, gender-neutral Urban Fantasy that will appeal to the people who are tired of fluffy paranormals.
I took to Atticus and his story immediately, in a way that I wish I could have with Dresden Files (don't worry DF fans...I'll get back there eventually, I promise!).I hear the books get even better, so I'm hyped.
Sometimes, I want a fantasy that is a happy medium between the two, something that isn’t dense and has humor, but where there are real stakes to the hardships facing the protagonist.
Judging from this first book, the Iron Druid series is at least in the “like” category, and I can see that growing into love.Atticus O’Sullivan is a fantastic UF protagonist.
As with most UF protagonists, he’s constantly on the wrong side of angry beings far more powerful than he is, and he has to protect himself with his wit and a little help from his friends.My favorite of those friends, and one of the few who isn’t supernatural in some way, is Oberon.
Iron Druid has the strongest beginning to an urban fantasy series that I have read to-date.
Given that Atticus O'Sullivan is a druid, it is only fitting that the debut novel dealt heavily with Celtic mythology.
The characters are also likeable although the main protagonist, Atticus, can come across as quite cocky at times.
My favourite character by far has to to be the most adorable and hilarious Irish wolfhound, Oberon - loyal companion and lover of sausages and poodles.
My enjoyment of Hounded was enhanced by magnitudes from Daniels' extraordinary ability to bring the characters and story to life.
The beginning seemed really good then everything went downhill damn fast.This guy was thinking like a 12-year-old!
And he was just so damn annoying about it!When I decided to read this one I saw two types of reviews: really good ones and really bad ones.
It was a bad read for me.Why the 1.5/2 stars?
I can see the appeal, the guy has his good moments (although I DNFed, so maybe he gets better or maybe he gets worse, I just didn't have the patience to stay and find out).
But all in all, I really really didn't like him.
And it has a narrator/protagonist who is supposedly two thousand years old and Irish, yet carries on an internal monologue that is entirely twenty-first century American at all times, complete with pop-culture references that never stray to older than a decade.
What kills the book is that he's also the worst kind of adolescent wish fulfilment super-powered stupidity.
I'm guessing the author thinks that the existence of kryptonite spoils Superman.But having said all that, somehow it still manages to be sort of fun.
Now the determined deity has tracked him down, and Atticus will need all his power--plus the help of a seductive goddess of death, his vampire and werewolf team of attorneys, a sexy bartender possessed by a Hindu witch, and some good old-fashioned luck of the Irish--to kick some Celtic arse and deliver himself from evil.My Review: The Doubleday UK meme, a book a day for July 2014, is the goad I'm using to get through my snit-based unwritten reviews.
The saying in my time was, "Storm clouds are thrice cursed," but I can't talk like that and expect people to believe I'm a twenty-one year-old American.
I enjoyed this first in the Iron Druid series. It reminds me a great deal of Dresden (that's a good thing). My only compaint...I didn't get as emotionally connected as I would have liked - probably beause he seemed rather nonconcerned about any conflict that would befall him. But that's a minor nitpick. (I'm a writer we always think about how we would have done things)I highly recommend this book - especially for those that enjoy Butcher's Dresden.
Atticus is the first praciticing druid I've read about in a long while, and it's nice to have a new take on magic in the urban fantasy line.
They actually behave a lot like the stereotypes of gods from mythology (at least in the Greek myths I read), which is to say, manipulative, egotistical and randy.
Vampires, werewolves and witches also play a role in the action.Characters are very likeable, although at first Atticus really seems a lot like a moderately interesting 25 year old rather than a 2100 year old druid.
Otherwise, hugely enjoyable and I'll definitely keep reading the series.Cross-posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0...
My favorite urban fantasy books have characters who have access to power or have supernatural traits, but they can only wield their power with a heavy cost.
Atticus has been alive for 21 centuries, he references (view spoiler)[ having a son (hide spoiler)] yet he is light hearted and does not appear to be affected by the passage of time or the loss of those he loved.
So because it was not a bad book and because I somewhat enjoyed it, I will read it again.
I recommend this book to people who are interested in a light read.
I read the first 5 pages and thought I might actually like it after procrastinating over the decision of: to read, or not to read?
These gods care enough to warn Atticus of an impending threat on his life but he doesn't take them seriously.
I don't understand why they care if he never listens to them.One of said gods has promised not to let Atticus die.
Well, I met him but he doesn't seem terribly dog-like.
I've never given up after so few pages read before, but I can't force myself to read any more.
Life almost seems good, but an angry Celtic god wants his sword and he has been looking for Atticus for a while.
He just really brings Atticus and Oberon to life and makes you fall in love with them and the story.
I have not had a lot of books where the audiobook enhances the series, so if you thought about trying this one out, I strongly suggest you give a shot.
I highly recommend it on audio, because the narrator does a fantastic job and the story is just so much fun with a brilliant cast of characters.
Easily a five star book for me, and Atticus, the 2000 year old Druid, is a five star character too!
This has LOTS in common with the Dresden Files which is a plus plus plus because I love the Dresden Files and have to wait patiently each year for the next in the series.
This series will help me wait:) Hounded is a great read, full of magic and all the creatures that that entails plus a new to me superhero who eventually wins the ultimate battles.
Loved it and can't wait to get the next one.
I started this book feeling a bit underwhelmed.
There are a whole lot of deities mentioned in this book along with shifters, the fae, vampires, druids, and witches.
Honestly, if I hadn't read many UF books before, I would have been completely lost.
I could have dropped the book in the first 50 pages.
And no romance to speak of??
However, as I read further and further, I started really enjoying myself.
I got into a urban fantasy groove, so to speak.
It is very hard not to fall in love with Atticus and Oberon.
I loved their banter.
I began really really loving it.
I am sort of a sucker for good snark. And I've been bemoaning the similarities of much of the fantasy I've been reading recently. So this book came around at exactly the right time, and quite enchanted me. It's not the deepest book in the world, but it was thoroughly fun and diverting, and I look forward to reading more in the series.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I was recommended this book by a friend and since I've also had a great time with several other series in the same way, I was perfectly willing to give it a try.
This being said, I'm still willing to try out others from the genre, just in case.I cannot say this novel is going to be ranking at the best that those other series can produce, at least until I've seen a progressive arc in story and character development.
Off I go to read the second!Edit 10/21/15And now I've read a ton more UF titles, but this series still ranks up there as a must read every time a new book comes out.
Buddy Read with Shandra, Ana, Loki, Skyla and Litchick!Really strong for the first book in a series, and I'll most likely check out at least the second one if not the rest at some point along the way.
Loved the premise and all the Celtic/Irish mythology (being of Irish, Scottish and Welsh descent myself, it just feels good to find a story that involves all of that without resorting to leprechauns right off the bat), and all the characters were fantastic.
This was good but forgettable, so I'm knocking it down to 3 stars.
That didn't quite work the way I'd planned.
This urban fantasy has a very light tone.
What’s supposed to be serious turns into dark humor.
The plot is very simple: He has a sword this god-enemy wants.
When they’re all gone, the enemy finall shows up himself to get the sword.
Atticus is so powerful, we’re never worried for his safety.
It’s light and funny with a sort of Harry Dresden vibe.
Atticus often comes across as cocky and immature.
I imagined him played by Nathan Fillion, and that worked well.
Harrison Ford would probably work, too.The audio narration is very good.
The violence is more humorous than graphic.
