https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403120.The_Spear
Caught up in the harsh reality of Roman political intrigue, he not only loses the lady (to none other than Pontius Pilate) he also ends up banished to the furthest reaches of the Empire—via total bankruptcy, the murder of his father, slavery, and time spent as a gladiator.
De Wohl tells the story of the last days of Jesus the Nazarene from several perspectives: Cassius and his fellow Roman soldiers; a rich Jewish merchant, Boz bar Sebulan and his household; Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin; Judas and his varied associates; Martha, Mary and Lazarus of Bethany; Pilate, his wife, his advisers, etc.
He took a cast of real characters from history, such as Pontius Pilate and his wife, Claudia; Caiaphas; the woman who committed adultery; Barabbas; and the man who hurled his spear into the side of Christ.
He took these people and he breathed life into them and fleshed them out beautifully, intertwining their stories and lives all together.
Then he built up around these people a world totally real, with detailed descriptions of this truly fascinating period of history and all the events that made it so.
It’s truly almost a spiritual read…and, though I claim NOT to like historical fiction, I think this is definitely historical fiction and it’s WONDERFUL.I caught myself, while reading it and since reading it, listening to the Gospel readings at Mass differently, actually hearing a voice and picturing people.
This gave grit and dirt to things that I think I take so much for granted: the wonder of our faith and of the real-life events that happened during Jesus’s life.Even though I knew the story, I didn’t.
Another masterpiece by Louis de Wohl!
It took me a while to get into the book, some of the characters, in the beginning, felt very shallow. Longinus seemed more of a child than the soldier de Wohl was also trying to make him out to be. Once the story progressed it became more interesting, and one of those books that get you hooked to see what happens in the end. But I found the prose itself was nothing to write home about.
I have read this book twice, I think and loved it. He really brings the First Century world alive, with a full panoply of sights, sounds, images. It is a faith-filled book, centering on the profound impression the crucifixion made on a man only briefly mentioned in the Gospels. For a book written sixty years ago, it holds up very well.Highly recommended
I really enjoyed this: I was a bit wary of it initially, as I think the project de Wohl set himself was a difficult one to pull off, but he does it really well. Good enough to re-read in due course, to recommend to others, and to send me off on the hunt for his other work.
"The Spear" is the story of Centurion Gaius Cassius Longinus, the Roman soldier whose presence at Rabbi Yeshua ben Yussef's crucifixion is related both in historical documents and scriptures.Louis de Wohl has drawn not only upon scripture but historical and cultural studies of Judea, Caesarea, Rome and even the gladiatorial schools to create this well-researched novel.
I feared I would find this disruptive to the narrative, but it was not problematic at all.I ordinarily avoid "Christian fiction" like the plague as it tends toward a preachy tone.
That was not the case with "The Spear" at all, and I enjoyed it.
This was a great book to read as a family during Lent -- 39 chapters makes it almost perfect for a chapter a day. The main character is the Roman centurion who pierced Christ's side after the crucifixion. Other characters include Bar Abbas, Pontius Pilate, Caiaphas, Mary Magdalene, and the woman caught in adultery and brought before Jesus to be tried (the scene regarding her adultery, about two paragraphs, was the only part that I didn't feel comfortable reading to my kids). We'll definitely read it again next Lent. Great story!
This is a wonderful book to read during the Lenten season. It portrays the life of Jesus through the lives of the sub-characters in the bible. Read this book while you read one of the gospels - it makes them so much more interesting! The plot is so engaging. Read it with someone so that you can discuss it!This book was easier to read than Citadel of God, also by Louis De Wohl. It was well written and dramatic. Read this book!
Fantastic book. I really enjoyed the perspectives of different individuals. It was very entertaining and gave great background on the circumstances of Jesus' death, but even more so it brought some of the Bible passages to life. Incredible book. Worth a re-read someday and definitely worth owning.
This book was great! It pulled me in right away and is one of the first "can't put it down" books that I've read for a while. :) The story plays out in Jerusalem at the time of Jesus and made for a great Lenten read, giving me a new perspective into Bible stories that I've heard many times before.
Cualquiera diría que los libros de Louis son religiosos, o solo para creyentes. Pero este hombre es capaz de hacer magia, de mezclar perfectemte el romance, con el suspenso, siempre teniendo un trasfondo religioso y apegándose a datos históricos. Admiro mucho este libro aunque al final se torna algo pesado y monótono, aún así sigue siendo uno de mis títulos favoritos de este autor...
I enjoyed this historical fiction very much!
Thought this would be good Lenten reading.
Just as great this time around; I believe that it will become a Lenten tradition
Amazed at the author's ability to take a common story and dissect it from so many angles and viewpoints! This definitely brings a fresh look to the passion of Jesus Christ and the events surrounding it. Would highly recommend this book!
Excellent writing.
I mostly liked this. However, towards the end, some of the preaching from Mary Magdalene felt more like something someone modern would say.
A thoughtful fictionalization of the life of Cassius Longinus, the centurion who thrust his spear into Christ's side at the Crucifixion and Cassius's secular and spiritual journey.
And we meet Cassius's lady love, Naomi.
[He's no longer carrying a torch for Claudia.] The Passion and Resurrection play out and we follow his spiritual crisis and its resolution.
Most characters but Cassius, Claudia, and Abenadar seemed bloodless to me.
It seemed to me that Naomi turned too quickly from her secular love [Cassius] to absolute devotion to Christ.
Comparisons with  The Robe  are inevitable. I didn't like The Spear quite as much; it hasn't aged as well, for one thing--especially where female characters are concerned. (view spoiler)[I'm still not quite sure what I think of the scene where the main character, Cassius (later to become Saint Longinus), practically rapes the love interest Naomi. The author attempts to sanitize it by having Naomi admit she loves Cassius, but she was clearly taken advantage of and she just isn't given enough of a
(view spoiler)[I'm still not quite sure what I think of the scene where the main character, Cassius (later to become Saint Longinus), practically rapes the love interest Naomi.
I'd have liked to see more of her own inner conflict: if she really did love Cassius, as the author wants us to believe, I think it would be more compelling if this had complicated her devotion to Christ a little more.
(hide spoiler)] But some of the characters are compellingly drawn, Cassius in particular.

This was a captivating piece of historical fiction that takes place during the time that word was spreading about Jesus Christ preaching and performing miracles up until his crucifixion & resurrection.
However, the story is told from the perspective of Cassius Longinus, according to the story, the one who pierces Jesus' side on the cross.
Many of the names have been slightly altered but anyone who knows the Bible well enough can guess which real life figures are personified by some of the characters.I found this novel as a perfect book for me to read during the Lenten season.
I have no words... this book is amazing. I've always enjoyed historical fiction but combined with the story of the Passion... Louis de Wohl does an incredible job of accurately portraying the characters' emotions. When I read the dialogue, I can truly feel and sympathize with the character's angst, joy, sorrow, etc.
An amazing true-life story related as well with the stile that defines De Wohl. The life of Casio changes when he find the right person and specially when she takes him into knowing Someone who would open his eyes to the Truth. Recommended for believers and also for those who don't.
I do like The Joyful Beggar more... But still really good.
I read this many years ago and as I remember it it was way too Christian for my taste....
great book
Un libro que es interesante en todo momento!
I loved it. It was a little hard since I was only like 12 when I read it but it was still really good!
