https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174390.The_Adding_Machine

ماشین حساب، یک نمایش نامه ی اکسپرسیونیستی ست که در 1923 نوشته شده.
سیری در زندگی آقای صفر، محاکمه و اعدامش، و وقایعی که پس از مرگ بر او می گذرد، وقتی که خواهش ها و تمناهای زندگی اش را بکلی از یاد برده است.
آقای صفر دختر جذابی به نام "هوپ" (امید) را تعقیب می کند و...
نمایش نامه ای ست جذاب که به فارسی هم ترجمه شده چون به یاد دارم نمایش نامه توسط آقای رکن الدین خسروی یکی دو ماهی برای صحنه تمرین می شد، و بازیگرانی چون محمدعلی کشاورز، جمیله ی شیخی و سعید پورصمیمی در آن نقش داشتند..
شعرت أن الكاتب فعل كل ما بوسعه لتشويه تلك الفكرة العبقرية وليجعل منها عملاً سيئاً للغاية ....
صراع رائع ، تجريد لشخصيات من أسمائهم ، رمزية محببة ، كل ما تحتاجه لتستمع بعمل مسرحي يوجد هنا ورغم كل هذا كان من الممكن أن تكون أفضل من ذلك بمراحل
Wow!! So many themes and tones in this short play. It starts out as a classic house play, but turns into an interrogation of mortality, souls and eastern-influenced symbolism. Very surprising and engaging.
# 8 In my effort to read a play a week this year (thanks for the inspiration Jason Richards), this was a pleasant surprise.
Some of the theatricality and ideas seem as surprising and fresh as any modern day piece, though some of the language and phrases remain colloquial to the 1920's.
Equally, the cemetery scene with the strange character of Shrdlu evokes great mood like a good night watching the nonmusical parts of Michael Jackson's Thriller video from the 80's.
A landmark piece of American Expression and easy to see how this could have been a great influence on Wilder's Our Town or a number of Tennessee Williams' work.
Beatrix appeared as Judy O'Grady in the Adding Machine by Elmer Rice at which opened 9 January 1928 at the Royal Court.
(It had originally first been produced in the US 5 years earlier) It is worth noting that her character is a murderess, who got away with only a 6 month sentance, and her scene is entirely her wanting to have sex in a grave yard.But I Really Really liked this one!
It was full of horrible people and the futility of life.
It highlighted the mundane and the pointlessness and everything without being dreary.
I'd love to see it performed.
This play was adapted as a movie in the fifties or sixties starring Milo Oshea and Phyllis Diller. It is brilliant. I recently saw it done as a play and there were a few elements that were not in the movie (racism, for example) as the main characters symbolize what is wrong with humanity. I would highly recommend it.
This was the first play I read for my 20th Century American Drama class, and I thoroughly enjoyed it overall as well as the message Rice implanted into his work. There's confusion in Mr. Zero's monologue in the middle of the play, but it's purposefully done so by the author to show the true insanity of Mr. Zero and what drove him to it.
An early gem of American expressionism - way ahead of its time in its portrayal of human alienation.
Gar nicht mal so schlecht. War amüsiert, vor allem weil es so bitterböse Szenen im Himmel gibt (-:
went to go see the play in seattle. tight. tight. tight.
This is my favorite play, I really enjoyed it.
I imagine when it was written it was an eye opener. It started out slow, but took an interesting twist.
A really great work and a quick read too.
Oh, Gawd. Not my cup of tea to say the least; expressionist art isn't my thing.
Dark, Expressionist, dour, and absurd in all the right places. I would love to see this play staged since all the characters seem to be symbols. The musical version is quite intriguing.
This seems to be a take off of an Anton Chekhov play that I read a year or so ago. I'm going to see if I can find my Chekhov anthology and get to the bottom of this. More later!!
I bet none of you have ever read this play. Read it, it's fantastic.
