https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93263.The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow
Every aspect of the book is complex: intricate plot, sophisticated language, detailed narration.
The author has done a good job by making the story short.
The detailed narration brings forth a good imagination.I'm citing a block below which impressed me a lot.
Some seem to have but one vulnerable point, or door of access; while others have a thousand avenues, and may be captured in a thousand different ways.
It is a great triumph of skill to gain the former, but a still greater proof of generalship to maintain possession of the latter, for man must battle for his fortress at every door and window.
This creative and magical novel tells the story about Ichabod Crane who is a poor school teacher and only works for 10 dollars a day.
This tale takes place around the time of the American Revolution near Tarrytown, New York.
At the dinner party everyone is talking about a headless horseman who stalks the countryside at night.
One man, Brom Bones, a rival of Ichabod, tells how he and the horseman were in a race.
On his way home from the party Ichabod encounters the headless horseman.
I think I would find it very difficult to live during the time of the American Revolution.
Perfect scary story! I love the part where it says ..."and he would have passed a pleasant life of it, in despite of the Devil and all his works, if his path had not been crossed by a being that causes more perplexity to mortal man than ghosts, goblins, and the whole race of witches put together, and that was-a woman." Poor Ichabod Crane!
What a great Halloween story! Makes me crave deep autumn.
This is already a short book as it is and said flowery descriptions make up the majority of its length; not much actually happens in terms of story.
In all honesty, this is one of those rare instances in which I hold the modern movie adaptation in much higher esteem than the original writing.
Sure, the Tim Burton film took great liberties with it and added much that wasn't originally there, but if they hadn't then there simply wouldn't have been enough material for a feature film.
Oh the story of the headless horseman, what better story to read while trying to scare kids or enjoy a nice halloween weekend.
The classic horror story created by Washington Irving has been twisted and tweak countless amounts of times to creat movies, shows, and even other books.
But as the story comes close to ending, Icabod runs into a dark figure, the headless horseman of Sleepy Hollow.This short story was very entertaining since before I read this book the only version I knew was from the movie which took a completely different approach.
This book, as previously stated, would be perfect around halloween time.
I saw the film Sleepy Hollow a couple of weeks ago and I found it very funny and enjoyable (I mean, I like anything by Tim Burton and anything with Johnny Depp in it, so it wasn't such a big surprise) and I decided to read the short story that inspired the movie.It was a nice and very short read, and even though the director developed and altered the story a bit, I can understand the appeal it posed.[image error]Did I say that I'm totally in love with Johnny Depp? :D
Well I must say I expected something different. Still it was quite an interesting read and I liked the rather unusual portrayal of the main character who was nothing less tan a hero. A nice read for Halloween.
A scary tale from America's past, but sadly, much of it is lost to another time.
Read as a kid - pretty scary. I remember wondering why the teacher was so skinny and then later learned at that time teacher's were more on a starvation salary than now.
Interesting. I like the gothic old fashioned atmosphere and language.
My book club read this for October. I'm not sure I've ever read it all the way through before, and now that I have I'm still not sure why it's such a classic. I guess tales of ghosts and pathetically maladroit schoomasters made a far greater impression on people in the 19th century. Also, it seems to me that people take a lot more out of the story than is actually in there. In which case, Irving has done a tremendous thing by creating tale that we all personalize to some extend.
Audio- fun and spooky in audio. A short quick clasic
I didn't really LOVE the story but Irving is so decriptive that I really enjoyed reading it. It made me want to read some of his other short stories.
With detailed and vivid artwork throughout along with the classic paranormal story, this graphic novel is really amazing.
Fantástica historia de terror con una ambientación soberbia. También ha sido llevada a la gran pantalla y recientemente hay una serie de televisión. Todas las versiones son buenas, pero la obra original es imprescindible
Pretty good for a story written over a hundred years ago. It's a good book to do a comparison unit with middle school or upper elementary students comparing it to "The Legend of Decimus Croome: A Halloween Carol."
The afterward by Charles L. Grant is what freaked me out most!!
Muy bonita historia aunque ya la conocía de la película
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
I have read reviews which bemoan the lack of dialogue and speech bubbles, but they would have felt out of place, especially considering that Irving's short story was entirely narration with no dialogue.
In fact, I watched that film so much as a child that when I think of Ichabod Crane, the Disney version is what pops into my head.
The Ichabod character is just about the only thing in the novel that it Disneyfied; in fact Hampton's introduction stresses that at the climax of the story, the Headless Horseman throws his decaying head, not a laughing pumpking, at Crane.
Europeans who wish to better understand the United States must at some point read a collection of Washington Irving Tales as it was this Yankee of the first half of then nineteenth century not Walt Disney who created the American pop culture that the world today now knows.Irving's characters where all descendants of the dutch founders of Nieuw-Nederland that later became the state of New York.
Irving however wrote not only tales about the city but also the Dutch in the rural areas of which none of which is more popular than the Legend of Sleepy Hollow in which Abraham Von Brunt a good young New Netherlander must deal with the unwanted competition of the pedantic New Englander Ichabod Crane for the heart of the lovely Katrina Van Tassel.
I thought it would be a suitable bite-size read (at only 30-something pages) for the month of Hallowe'en.As is often the case, this original story published in 1820 bears very little resemblance to the film it became.It is set in around 1790 in a Dutch settlement known as 'Tarry Town' where the inhabitants are extremely superstitious, believing most of all in the Headless Horseman, the ghost of a Hessian trooper whose head was shot off by a stray cannonball during the American Revolutionary War. The ghost now, allegedly of course, haunts the site looking for his head.Ichabod Crane is the character who unwittingly crosses paths with this phantom, after spending the evening trying to charm the beautiful daughter of a rich farmer.
This is exactly the moment in time that Irving captures in his writing with such alacrity that nearly two hundred years later the reader is drawn backward two centuries and given over to its fears and ignorance.This book is a must read for anyone.
Indeed, throughout, the story is replete with vivid descriptions of Ichabod Crane, Tarry Town, the graveyars, Katrina Van Tassel, and Bram Bones.
As a reader you feel you know these people and places.Perhaps the only major weakness of the story is the conclusion.
When Ichabod leaves a party he attended at the Van Tassel estate, he is chased by a mysterious headless horseman on the lonely road leading to his house.The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a short story that pretty much everyone is familiar with but not very many people have actually read.
However, I’d never read the book (which I happened to own.) This Halloween, I thought I would finally give The Legend of Sleepy Hollow a try.
Ichabod leaves a party late at night, and is chased by a headless horseman.
I did like the story, but in my opinion it just didn't grab me as much as Tim Burtons movie.The characters just seemed to really annoy me in the book, Katrina came across as a brattish whore, Brom Bones was just the typical bragging macho guy who you just wanted to see get killed (10 points to Mr Burton!)and Ichabod, oh my Lord-What a horrible cowardly man he is!.
Respect to the man (Washington) for writing a story which inspired several sequels, I know you all may hate me for this but- I think i'll stick with Tim Burtons movie.
It is in this classic short story we are first introduced to two character who have thoroughly captured our darkest imagination, Ichabod Crane and the Headless Horseman.
Ichabod Crane is the local school teacher, fascinated in equal parts by superstition, food, and one Katrina Von Tassel.
One late night, following the Von Tassel's annual Halloween party, a night of good food and frightful stories, a dejected Ichabod Crane rides home at the witching hour.
It is here that he meets the subject of so many local legends, the Headless Horseman.I was sadly disappointed by this short story.
I had read it in school and even watched the movie Legend of Sleepy Hollow that came out.
We meet Ichabod Crane who is a schoolmaster and who wants to marry an 18 yr old wealthy farmers daughter, Katrina Van Tassel.
He is the ghost of a Hessian trooper who had his head shot off by a stray cannonball during a "nameless battle" during the American Revolutionary War. Ichabod mysteriously disappears from town after that fateful night which leaves Katrina to marry Brom Bones.
The story leaves in mystery saying only that Brom would look "exceedingly knowing when the story of Ichabod was related".
Listened to the free Librivox recording, and the narrator was well suited to the story.I've always meant to read this and I'm not sure what I was expecting to happen.
In Sleepy Hollow, not long after the War of Independance, when many lives were lost, ghost stories have been built up around what happened.
He has to ride his horse through the haunted area, only to be chased by the headless horseman.Crane is never to be seen again, and rumours abound for a while about what happened and whether he is still alive Good haunting story, and well suited for a reading on a dark and stormy night.....
Irving, in creating this mood, sets up a skillful contrast between the indolent and seductive past and the hurrying future, a contrast that he intends to explore and exploit in this, as in so many of, his stories.
Ichabod Crane is the figure of the intellectual, the impractical man of the past, while Brom Bones is the up and coming, roistering new American, Whitmanesque in character.
This delightful and familiar short story is a model for the America coming into being in the early 19th century, an America that Irving view with, at best, ambivalence, but a model that has become a part of our national mythology, reflecting our view of ourselves.
