https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163906.Consider_Her_Ways_and_Others
Gee, these are good, and worthy of a five star rating. Wyndham was a great short story writer, and these show him at his best.
I've been working my way through all of Wyndham's stuff -- there's a flavour to it that makes it just wonderfully easy to read, despite being a little bit dated. This collection of stories wasn't, I suppose, terribly memorable: all based around the same gimmick of time travel, but it was fun to read and to see what different things he did with that idea. Some of the stories have nice little stings in their tails, which is something I always like to see.Not a must-read, by any means, but enjoyable.
"....and I wondered, was this nothingness my soul?". This has to be the most wonderfully written passage I have ever read and one that will stay with me forever.
John Wyndham sets a very particular tone in this collection, everything feels just a little bit off, like a familiar room but everything is shifted 2 inches to the left.
While I thoroughly enjoyed the title story, Consider Her Ways, it wasn't my favorite.
The dystopian future which would have been very unique in the decade it was publiahed feels less exciting given the flood of dystopian novels out today.
My favorite was Long Spoon, which had me laughing out loud at several passages.
The plot was unique and the execution quite funny, and felt almost like a satire of Faustian themes.
'Consider Her Ways': *NO SPOILERS*A very intriguing story indeed.Apart from being somewhat Kafkaesque being a kind of metaphysical journey, where the protagonist is constantly questioning her own lucidity, it is Wyndham at his core.
That is, until her memory begins to return to her.Mother Orchis is our narrator, and due to her state of mind and situation, cannot be omniscient.For Wyndham, this allows him to make this unfamiliar world and setting more unfamiliar and discomforting.
The unidentified kinds of people that exist coupled with their weird behaviour only sets the tone to a backdrop of peculiarity--nothing uncommon to a Wyndham story.Altogether, 'Consider Her Ways' is a psychological thriller with tones of dystopian science-fiction.
It’s an interesting collection and while the stories repeat the same theme – a sudden change that leads to exclusive knowledge or perception – there is still plenty of variety to the tales.
All but the last tale involve some sort of transportation – body-switching, folds in time, or multiple dimensions, that enable the main character to learn something they wouldn’t otherwise know.
In “Consider Her Ways” we are taken with the main female character, to a possible future where men no longer exist and cloned women run society, birth new clones and do all the work.
The back cover of my Penguin edition of this 1961 collection carries a quote from The Guardian that might almost be the definition of damning with faint praise: "Mr Wyndham writes strongly and has a gift for bizarre plots." As such, this is, unfortunately, a better assessment than that in the Tribune quote above it, which lauds the book as "Top quality".
Four of its six stories are about time-slips, with "Random Quest" showing a nice attention to period detail, and "Consider Her Ways" the most interesting and worked-out concept, let down by a rather predictable ending.
It passes the time but, as a whole, the collection reads somewhat like a poor man's Tales of the Unexpected written by Ray Bradbury on an off-day: far from Wyndham at his best.
Disappointing. The stories ranged from distastefully smug and preachy (Consider Her Ways), to three variations on pointless (Odd, Peggy MacRafferty, Stitch in Time), to somewhat interesting (Random Quest), to quite good (A Long Spoon). The running theme could have been better handled by removing all but the first story. While the last story (A Long Spoon) was well done and very funny, but it couldn't save this collection from itself.
The opening novella has an excellent reputation but I thought it was overdone and would have been better at a shorter length, and it too used a similar time travel idea with a woman's consciousness being thrown more than a hundred years into a dystopian future after taking an experimental drug.
I bought another Penguin edition of stories at the same time as this and I look forward to reading it and another Wyndham I have handy.
That doesn't have to be a bad thing but by the third story, it all starts to feel repetitive.
The first, and also the longest, story starts out ok with a woman walking up in an all-female society and in a body that she does not think is hers.
An interesting idea that I think has some merit but it's also perpetuating the idea that love and romance are women's things that men just tolerate for an easy life.
Both are quite short and fast-paced, both a bit offbeat, The Long Spoon especially made me laugh.Overall I'd say there are some good ideas but he's not at his best.
Consider Her Ways (the novella) left an unpleasant aftertaste, but the Others -- as a collection -- made me smile. Wyndham's characters seem to have all wandered off a production of A Dance to the Music of Time and into either A Wrinkle in Time or Titties 'n' Beer. He certainly doesn't seem to have run short of ideas in his later years.
A nice piece of holiday reading. There are a couple of real gems in this collection which really make you think as well as make you thoroughly uneasy. As with the Arthur C Clarke collection I read earlier this year a fair few share some similarities with jokes in their long slow build up to a single punchline. Conceptually very well done.
A brilliant set of short stories by my favourite author. A set of mixed genre stories all with quite imaginative plots and likable characters. I almost wish each of these short stories had a full length book to read.
The stories in this book may be older than me, but there is a reason John is regarded as a master of the genre. These stories are still good half a century after they were written.
An interesting collection of short stories, mainly based around the theme of time travel.
Stories individual ratings Story...1. 4.5/52. 3.5/53. 3/54. 4/55. 3.75/56. 4.5/5Overall score of 3.87
I read only "Consider Her Ways" on my Kindle, but this is the only instance of the story I found on Goodreads. One of the best Wyndham tales I have read.
The title story is one of these too, but stands out by dint of just being weird as hell - it's a bizzaro fantasy about a future where men have all been killed by a virus they caught from rats, and women run things according to the model of an ant colony, with mothers, workers, 'servitors' and 'doctors' (ie the few female trained professionals left, most of whom are medics).
I'm sure Wyndham wants us to see a female-dominated society as a terrible thing, but this rather feeble defence doesn't really cut it, and there were times I came down on the side of the ladies.
I love John Wyndham's writing and I'm slowly making my way through his books.
This one is a short story collection and the first of Wyndham's I have read.
I'll take as much of John Wyndham's work as I can get.So, there are six short stories in this book but the first one, the title story is actually the longest by quite a bit.
I think I might have just missed something somewhere or it was supposed to be mysterious in a confusing way.
Overall, I really enjoyed Consider her ways and others.
The stories were all entertaining and John Wyndham is definitely one of my favourite authors right now.
This collection pretty much confirmed my feelings.
Time warping is a bit of a constant theme- my personal interest in the subject probably kept me more entertained than I would have otherwise been- but people (including people who were alive around the same time as this guy, or a tiny bit later) have done far more interesting things with them.
The title story has probably the most substance- kind of like Trouble With Lichen, it's a pretty obvious commentary on gender relations.
Still, just like the other stories, it's a fun read nonetheless.I don't know.
This rating is only for the story "Random Quest".I listen to the British Invaders podcast, and they were recently talking about a modern adaptation of John Wyndham's short story "Random Quest" which is published in this collection.
I watched the production on YouTube before listening to the second part of the podcast and really enjoyed it.
It was a good idea, but it really is just a bare bones story.
Having just watched a more fleshed out version, the story seemed a bit lacking.I guess it shows that the production was good, since it took this clever idea and ran with it to produce something more satisfying.
Collection of 6 short stories from Wyndham...several offering differing twists on individuals slipping through time and the social effects of such on their own lives and others.
His stories contain much reference point to the decades he wrote in...and those relevance factors can be somewhat tedious now, even meaningless.
That said, these factors to tend to make one ruminate over the current life we are living too.
However, his writing style and plot structures are engaging and cerebral in these short stories.
One of the short stories 'Random Quest' was made into a movie starring Joan Collins.
Another one of those Love and the Time Traveller movies...heh.
These include:Consider her ways: Well..Its one of those end-of-world scenarios where men have been completely wiped off the face of earth and only female left on planet earth.
This plot , though intresting, is not first in the literary world.
I like the way the arguments against 'men' and for 'men' has been presented.Stitch in time: Its like this.
Each corner represent a point in time.
Mr Wyndham has a hold when he takes us into the unbelievable make-believe world of time travel.
He does this with interesting fictional concepts, crisp style and with little remorse to happy endings.
This is the second collection of short stories by John Wyndham that I have re-read in search of a time travel story that I read long ago and didn't understand.
Well, I found the story and it wasn't about time travel and it was perfectly understandable, which made the title 'Random Quest' quite appropriate.
Random Quest is a great story, a little dated, but interesting and almost plausible.
The two stories mentioned are as good as anything Wyndham wrote, but the collection as a whole is, I think, inferior to The Seeds of Time.
While not the best of Wyndham, he is as always a pleasure to read...This collection of short stories mainly deal with ideas about time travel and parallel universes... modern readers are much more used to these ideas now, so I think their impact may have diminished over time, but when they were first published, they must have seemed extraordinary...Mind you, some of the issues he realises still apply to us even now...Well worth a read if you can find a copt.
A book about how to yield to female cyclists without accidentally seeing their ankles.This was written in the 1920s, a time when seeing a young woman's ankles accidentally meant stopping your automotive device (or horse) and immediately throwing yourself under the next lorry that came along (or group of horses). The twist at the end is that the heroine has no ankles, due to a puddle skipping accident.
There were some great stories in this little book. I especially enjoyed the longest story "Consider Her Ways". Great detailed and slightly creepy story that surprised me all the way through. Definitely appealed to me in many ways :) "Odd" was an odd story, of course, but amazing how much an good author can say in a very short story. I like Wyndham's writing, may have to read some more.
I really enjoyed these short stories. 'Consider Her Ways' was by far my favourite, although 'Random Quest' was very good too. Although I liked them, I did have to keep reminding myself when they written, as some of the themes seem a bit outdated now, but taking that into consideration, I thought they were probably a bit ahead of their time. Classic SF at its best.
This book was compulsory for my English lessons but it wasn't that bad. Even taking into account that science-fiction is not the genre I enjoy the most, the plot has interesting aspects and the story has a good ending.
This is a most enjoyable and interesting collection of Wyndham stories set around the theme of time travel. Wyndham writes beautifully with a deliciously English sense of humour. I feel that he is still a neglected writer.
