https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/791345.Picnic_at_Hanging_Rock
upon a closer reading, you offer a far more ambiguous yet provocative interpretation, one based upon the nature of those who disappeared: they were not of this world, in spirit or in deed.
is there a greater implication, a pattern even, to all of our little actions and to all of our little lives, one that exists beyond us, one that connects us to each other and to a world beyond?here, in your own lovely words, is where i found the true purpose behind your strange, thoughtful tale:"Peering down between the boulders Irma could see the glint of water and tiny figures coming and going through drifts of rosy smoke, or mist.
”He reminded himself that he was in Australia: Australia, where anything might happen. In England everything had been done before: quite often by one’s own ancestors, over and over again.” Two years ago, I watched a film based on the book by Joan Lindsay. A month ago, I watched a marvelous TV series adaptation of the same novel. Both versions were eerie, dark, atmospheric. I’ve always wanted to read Picnic at Hanging Rock and the opportunity came with the Movie Night discussion in Zuky’s wonder
I’ve always wanted to read Picnic at Hanging Rock and the opportunity came with the Movie Night discussion in Zuky’s wonderful group ”The BookBum Club”.
There was no development in the characters which is a pity since most of them surely hide quite a lot of secrets.
From the teachers to the students, the claustrophobic environment that exists side by side with the beautiful, threatening, unruly nature provided a unique setting that I felt was wasted in endless descriptions of the life of the two young men of the story that were completely useless.
As the story starts, a group of young girls, boarders at Mrs. Appleyard's College for Young Ladies, is excitedly starting for their annual picnic near it, on February 14, St. Valentine's Day. There is Miranda, beautiful like a Botticelli painting; Irma Leopold, the pretty heiress; Marion Quade, top academic performer; Edith Horton, the college dunce and many others.
It is also to be noted that Sara idolises Miranda, who is almost a myth, an ethereal vision which fittingly disappears.But the real protagonist of the story is Hanging Rock, the volcanic formation which is millions and millions of years old, standing ominously tall above all the puny humans crawling around like ants at its base - ephemeral beings whose unimaginably tiny lifetimes it must have surely smiled at, mockingly....The plain below was just visible; infinitely vague and distant.
It is the atmosphere, the pervasive sense of dread and the wonderful descriptions that made this book for me, a special read. The school, the headmistress, the students all with hidden undercurrents of eeriness. What happened to those girls? An open ended ending, up to the reader's interpretation. Have never seen the movie but want to see it after reading the book. Wonder how closely adapted the movie is to the book? Very well done and mysterious read.
On a summer's day in 1900 the students at Appleyard College for Young Ladies decided to go on a picnic at Hanging Rock.
I am perhaps in the minority here, but I found this book to be B-O-R-I-N-G.
The girls went missing early on and things just went on and on and on like the EverReady bunny.
That is one thing that I liked.
But there seemed to be a lot of other things going on in the book that dulled down the story.I think it is safe to say that this was not the book for me.
Australian classic which I probably wouldn't have picked up other than I was short of an audio cd for the car.
It is pretty music that adds to the flavour of the time of the year 1900.
The narrator was outstanding, Australian actress Jacqueline Mackenzie portrayed the Aussie flavour perfectly, her male voices were entertaining and real.The story of a group of girls never to be seen again, for me, lacked finality, but that what the story was all about.
I noticed that just like The Harp in the South, this was another short classic.Historical fiction and I just don't gel, but I did like it enough.
While reading this, I kept thinking about "The House of Leaves".
I got the same eerie feelings I had while reading that story.
The eeriness started to happen during the schoolgirls approach to the picnic grounds near the rock.I was glad I got the chance to read this story.
I had been wanting a copy for years.
And as soon as I heard that Penguin re-printed it in the States I rushed out and bought a copy.If I ever get a chance to visit Australia, I would love to see the formation in person.Also, try and read this book in one sitting.
Por otra parte, la señora McGraw, profesora de matemáticas, que hasta hacía poco estaba con el grupo principal, también desaparece sin razón aparente.Resulta interesante la manera en que Joan Lindsay va desvelando los diferentes hechos, de forma paulatina, lo que obliga al lector a continuar leyendo hasta conocer el final.
Pero en todo caso, lo importante son los hechos que se plantean y cómo se expanden, más allá del misterio.
'Well, young ladies, we are indeed fortunate in the weather for our picnic to Hanging Rock. I have instructed Mademoiselle that as the day is likely to be warm, you may remove your gloves after the drag has passed through Woodend. You will partake of luncheon at the Picnic Grounds near the Rock. Once again let me remind you that the Rock itself is extremely dangerous and you are therefore forbidden to engage in any tomboy foolishness in the matter of exploration, even on the lower slopes. It is
'Well, young ladies, we are indeed fortunate in the weather for our picnic to Hanging Rock.
You will partake of luncheon at the Picnic Grounds near the Rock.
Once again let me remind you that the Rock itself is extremely dangerous and you are therefore forbidden to engage in any tomboy foolishness in the matter of exploration, even on the lower slopes.
In 1900, a pleasant outing for a local girls' school turns tragic when three of the participants never return from the trip.
The delicious anticipation of the trip to the Rock was much more interesting than anything that happened later.This was a damned good line, though:
The book began well, it kept my attention and I was intrigued to learn what supposedly happened at this hanging rock.
The story kind of went off track, and started exploring relationships with characters, that I feel, had no real role in the story, especially not if one wants to find out what happened at hanging rock.As I dragged myself painfully to the end of this book, I realised I didn't really care what any of the answers to the questions were.
I was hoping to love this book, but it was just a tedious disappointment.
It started really good and interesting as it quickly opened with a mystery.
It's set in a boarding school, and on a summer day, the class go to Hanging Rock for a picnic.
4 girls and 1 teacher wonder around separated from the rest of the class.
Only one student makes her way back, and the rest get lost.
The rest of the book is digging into the events, relationships, etc to resolve the mystery.
The book kept me wondering what happened to these girls, and I really wanted to reach the end.
But, I found the process of investigations and the end unsatisfactory.
Picnic at Hanging Rock by Joan Lindsay is a sinister tale that had me at page one.I really enjoyed this novel and set in Austrailia in 1900."   It was a cloudless summer day in the year nineteen hundred, Everyone at Appleyard College for Young Ladies agreed it was just right for a picnic at hanging rock.
Further, higher, unitl at last they disappeared, They never returned..............Extremely well written book that had me intrigued from the first page.
Loved the mystery of this story and on finishing the novel left me with a wonderful sense of " What happened to those girls".
Was ist mit den Mädchen geschehen?Joan Lindsays moderner Klassiker aus dem Jahre 1967 zeichnet sich vor allem durch seine einmalige, schwer zu beschreibende Stimmung aus, die Peter Weir in seiner Verfilmung von 1975 großartig einfangen konnte.
Nach dem nicht näher bestimmbaren Unglück werden die destruktiven Folgen beschrieben, die dieses auf das Internat und die Bewohner der näheren Umgebung hat.Lindsay spielt meisterhaft mit den Nuancen der Stimmung, die sie erzeugt, und mit ihren durchweg interessanten Charakteren.
Desweilen entlarvt Lindsay menschliche Schwächen – etwa den Hang zum Tratsch, für den das mysteriöse Verschwinden der Schülerinnen natürlich ein gefundenes Fressen ist.Das Rätsel wird nie gelöst werden – die Mädchen bleiben verschwunden.
La inquietud y curiosidad por saber si los hechos narrados eran o no reales, y la ambigüedad deliberada de la autora tanto en el propio libro como en las entrevistas posteriores, llevó a que numerosos investigadores y curiosos se desplazasen hasta Australia para tratar de desenmarañar el misterio.En el día de San Valentín de 1900, un grupo de estudiantes van de picnic a Hanging Rock.
A partir de aquí, lejos de intentar resolver el misterio, Lindsay trata de acercarnos a las consecuencias que tal desaparición tuvo en las vidas del resto de las alumnas, profesoras y padres.
Inteligente, y en mi opinión, interesante opción, pero falla en lo fundamental: los personajes no me han resultado creíbles, tampoco sus diálogos, y mucho menos la manera de resolver la trama.
The book is as vague as the articles and the film promised, but unlike them I now no longer care or want to know what "really" happened, mainly because I'm convinced it isn't smarts and literariness but rather shallowness that made Lindsay make it mysterious - the story of Sara is blatantly obvious, appearances by ghosts ridiculous, and a scene with a policeman and his wife towards the end straight out of an afternoon TV series."Dainty female rituals" are also hardly the focus, the purposely impossible mention of lost corsets aside, and while I liked how Lindsay created "atmosphere" on the way to the picknick ground, this description of nature, and a second one as the two young men ride to the rock on a different road, are all that make it "Australian".
It has the feel of a very polished yet not quite finished manuscript, and once the chilling and compelling mystery of the disappearance of three boarding school girls and a governess at the Hanging Rock has been set into motion, the momentum of the narrative is lost and ends up meandering toward a ghostly, spine-chilling non-ending.However, there are certainly many things to like about the book, not the least of which is its cheerful and artless "Australianness." The narrative voice has a very tongue-in-cheek tone that, funnily enough, reminds me of no other book so much as Miles Franklin's MY BRILLIANT CAREER, another Australian classic set in a similar era.

A strong argument could be made that the novel is about the fear of retribution white settlers felt when they attempted to tame this harsh country.
'Miranda!' In the breathless silence her voice seemed to belong to somebody else, a long way off, a harsh little croak fading out amongst the rocky walls.
Come back!' She took a few unsteady steps towards the rise and saw the last of a white sleeve parting the bushes ahead.And the girls disappear.
‘Picnic at Hanging Rock’ (1967) by Joan Lindsay is a seemingly simple and effective story well told – ostensibly nothing particularly literary, original or exceptional, save perhaps for the setting, the eponymous ‘Hanging Rock’ and yet…‘Hanging Rock’ is in one sense a good old fashioned mystery story, but it is this air of the mysterious and an all pervading sense of the eerie that is the key to the novels success – whether it is the monolithic ‘rock’ itself, the boarding school or the back stories, lives, relationships and fates of the various characters and main protagonists.
An Australian Enigma17 July 2018 Back around 1900, on Valentine’s day, a group of girls from a nearby boarding school just north of Melbourne went on a picnic to a nearby rock outcropping known as Hanging Rock. During the day three of the girls, and one of the teachers, decided to go and climb the rock to have a look around (remembering that these girls were wearing Victorian era clothing). The girls vanished without a trace, and the only one discovered could not remember a thing that had happen
An Australian Enigma17 July 2018	Back around 1900, on Valentine’s day, a group of girls from a nearby boarding school just north of Melbourne went on a picnic to a nearby rock outcropping known as Hanging Rock.
This mystery has never been solved, and because of it Hanging Rock has since become quite a haunted place, and many Australians are still baffled as to what happened to the girls, and many theories continue to float around as to their fate.
It's presented as based on a true story that happened in 1900, but as I found out in the net, it's completely fiction.Things are never fully explained and I could only guess the real causes and the real cruel or strange motives.
The endings (the book missed the last chapter, so I had to find it in the internet.
It is called "The Secret of Hanging Rock") were so unexpected and the missing chapter explained a lot.
I still think about the book and I am still trying to figure out if the deaths(?) on the hanging Rock were murders or suicides.
To make a solution apparent to the reader might have cheapened this book...because while the disappearance of the girls and the math teacher at Hanging Rock was the focal point of the story, the real story was the consequences of the disappearance and the effects felt by many throughout the story.Now the actual story: On Valentine's Day, 1900, several of the girls who were boarders & students at Mrs. Appleyard's College for Young Ladies, accompanied by a few staff members, went for an outing at a local geological phenomenon called Hanging Rock.
It was a cloudless summer day in the year nineteen hundred. Everyone at Appleyard College for Young Ladies agreed it was just right for a picnic at Hanging Rock. After lunch, a group of three girls climbed into the blaze of the afternoon sun, pressing on through the scrub into the shadows of Hanging Rock. Further, higher, until at last they disappeared. They never returned... So reads the blurb on the back of the book. How I wish that was all I had read of The Picnic At Hanging Rock by Joan Lin
How I wish that was all I had read of The Picnic At Hanging Rock by Joan Lindsay.
My review is not in line with popular opinion as despite my best efforts I simply didn't click with this book.
Less than half way through I turned to some GR reviews to get a sense of what others thought.
True, there was an unexpected twist at the end but to my mind it simply didn't compensate for the rest of the book.
I'm glad others enjoyed it but this is one picnic I wish I'd declined.
This is the haunting tale of a well known Australian mystery.
The author quickly states that this is an interpretation of events and that the facts of this story is largely unknown and the reader is left to make up their own mind.
This follows the aftermath of the event with some real life excerpts included to round out the story.
The writing was engaging enough with lots of descriptions of the Australian bush and surrounds and depicts the time well, although I wasn't overly riveted, it described the happenings enough to satisfy my curiosity even though the mystery still remains predominantly unsolved.
Wie in einer Schneekugel sind die Mädchen eines Internats in der viktorianisch starren und erdrückenden Ordnung gefangen, und genau das Leben, dem sie entgegen blühen, wird in ihrer Erziehung weitestgehend ausgeklammert.
Der Hanging Rock ist eine mit Höhlen durchsetzte Felsformation, in die die Mädchen gefallen sein könnten (“unique rock formations, including monoliths and reputedly bottomless holes and caves“)."At fourteen, millions of years can be almost indecent", schreibt Lindsay, und mit solchen Sätzen wird das skandalöse Schisma zwischen 17-jährigen Mädchen und dem Alter der Welt, wenigstens in Gestalt des australischen Hanging Rock, greifbar.Joan Lindsay war über 70 Jahre alt, als sie den Roman schrieb.
Around 1900, on a hot summer's day, girls from an academy for young women go on a picnic to Hanging Rock.
This isn't a travel guide to Australia - this is a song of understanding.The other thing that everyone knows about "Picnic at Hanging Rock" is that originally Lindsay wrote a final chapter, which explained the girls' disappearance.
The book is much loved, enduring, and talked about when many, possibly better, books have fallen by the way.The final chapter was published after Lindsay's death in 1985 as a standalone short: The Secret of Hanging Rock.
It is very rare that you can say a book is "exquisite" but there is really no other words for this little gem by Joan Lindsay.
Three schoolgirls and their teacher go missing during a picnic and the impact of the mystery reverberates throughout the small rural community they live in, negatively and positively changing the lives of a variety of characters from different social and ethnic backgrounds, deepened only further when one of the girls returns but the others vanish entirely.
Lindsay wisely only provides clues and very few answers; what answers she does provide only further deepen the mysteries.
It was a complete surprise.An ok story, written mostly from little evidence and a lot of imagination a loooong time ago.I suppose if I were a writer in 1966 (or whenever she started) and was looking for something different to write about, I might pick this strange story to incorporate into a novel, like Joan Lindsay did.
It is strange to think how it was.
Still, only questions remain about what happened to the girls and their governess.I do not think I am interested in watching the movie.

Full Review at https://jazza1997.wixsite.com/thebook...I highly recommend this book! It's just so good. Couldn't put it down for a minute. The suspense and mystery to the story line kept me on the edge of my seat. I felt the ending was left open though and it made me wonder what happened to the girls that went missing.
