https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36159.Black_Sun_Rising
Black Sun Rising; Or, How Ciani Got Her Groove Back.two major things to note in this sometimes absorbing, sometimes ridiculous science fantasy novel: a fascinatingly developed magic system and a head-smackingly stupid quest.regarding the stupidity, let's first clear the air with some extended ranting, so we can later speak on more pleasant things and end on an agreeably positive note.
both the egalitarian and the God-lover in me freaked out about this whole rationale.(3) apparently some piddly promise to protect said sorceress, made by an immortal vampire-sorcerer to a pleasure demon (best 2 characters), is enough to just up and change your entire life and go on a dangerous quest and maybe die.
I am in the process of re-reading her books after first reading them many years ago and I started with this one.
The first book of the "Coldfire" trilogy, this book takes place on the planet Erna which was colonized by people from Earth over a thousand years ago.
When the colonist first landed on Erna, they discovered the "Fae" which is a natural force that causes the thoughts of people (conscious, subconscious and unconscious) to manifest themselves physically.
This concept of the Fae and its power to make manifest the thoughts of humans was fascinating and got me hooked on the story right away.
With Black Sun Rising, author C.S. Friedman transports us into a world of darkness, where your fears can manifest themselves to haunt and hunt you.Erna is a planet humans from earth reached via spacship and settled onto.
Think Bram Stoker's Dracula and you have a good picture.Eevryday life is affected by eartquakes, that are way more frequent than on our planet, the cycle of three moons and the omni-present earth-fae, particle-like creatures that can be manipulated to do magic.But the darkness is not only invoked by the setting, it comes right down to the characters.
This was great.Main plot has been seen many times.Fellowship travels to the hearth of darkness for g
Im having a hard time with rating this.
It has something that at first looks like magic.It is inhabited by sentiment forces who feed on human emotions/blood/semen and can be tapped to fuel various things.
They are called fey and respond to strong emotions, desires, focused prayers...or natural adepts.
In my opinion they are characterization and character development and some mayor logical holes in plot and motivation.
Also sometimes as the plot moved on, I couldn't always answer why this was happening.
On one hand the world is stunning but characters and plot suffer for it at times.
The novel sets up a variety of interesting themes but concludes its bloated story with cliches, a disappointment given the great world-crafting of C.S. Friedman.Black Sun Rising takes place on Erna, a planet whose original human colonists were driven back to the dark ages by the mysterious energy known as the Fae. The Fae both is and isn’t magic in the traditional sense: while it is used for common wizardly purposes, it is also a product of Erna’s ecosystem that grants human thoughts and, most dangerously, fears corporeality.
here I think it bogged down a bit and often (for a while in the early chapters) had the reader going"okay...now how does that work?" Still it does eventually get roughly laid out and while we still have a lot of nebulous edges and loose ends to the system i assume she means it to be that way.
A great deal of the plot is that humans are "still after all this time" trying to understand and learn to work with the plant's forces.I found that while I got to know the people in this book the only one I really "liked" all that much was the priest Damien.
6 stars!My forth English fantasy fiction. I can't believe that i didn't read black sun rising before!!Review to come.
Damian isn't quite this bad, but he does have his moments.I initially was the most interested in Cianni, but her character development throughout this book was not to my liking.
Her assistant mostly got on my nerves.The most interesting character was the Hunter, but he's was very hard to like for many of the same reasons that made him interesting.I'm very much a fan of character-driven story, so when I don't connect well with the characters, it almost always hurts my enjoyment of the book.The world building, and the magic systems were both pretty interesting.
They felt pretty unique from most fantasy I've read, and that's always hard to do.Overall I felt like the pacing issues and my general dislike of the characters cost this book at least a star, possibly more.
Read this back in the early '90's and completely forgot everything.The good:I liked the writing style in that it is very descriptive and shows more than tells.
Tarrant and the priest were well developed and complex characters and I loved them both.The world building was fantastic..beyond fantastic!
Why did Tarrant care about her?
The author could have eliminated her character completely and I wouldn't have noticed or cared.The ugly:The "romance" between Ciani and the priest was horrible...Non existant!
"we are too different people from two different worlds." If there was more than an entire paragraph within the whole book dedicated to their "romance"I'd be surprised.Why have them even together?
Started reading book as it was recommended to me by many people, and also a book club of which I am an member was doing it for this month.But after almost completing almost 80% of this book, I don't give a damn about the world which the author has created neither the characters, so I am going to stop reading this book and further books in this series.I am just going to highlight the weak points for this book.1.
The book begins with a certain premise and plot, but completely jumps into another plot and this keeps happening with addition of more characters and concepts that after a certain point it just becomes too much for a reader to take.2.
I finally made it to the end of this awful book, mostly by skipping about eighty pages in the latter half (figured out what I'd missed within five repetitive pages, and no need to slog through) and then skimming the rest.All in all, this writer had a good idea, some fun character interplay potential and NO EDITING.
Then, I opened this up, read the prologue and nearly laughed with delight at the utterly female writer-ness of it.It's pretty good so far, though she does that switching narrator thing so often that it gets a little annoying.
A very dark book features one of the best bad/still most interesting guys in fantasy books.
I'm not really sure what I didn't like about this book.
The setting was amazing, the plot was interesting, the characters were...
I liked the characters well enough, but their problems didn't engage me.
I wasn't particularly upset when one of the characters died, I wasn't particularly glad when they resolved some of their issues, and I wasn't particularly interested to find out what happened to them in the later novels.That's not to say that they aren't good; my roommate is reading the series at the moment, and he loves it.
They're very interesting and incredibly detailed, just not really my thing.
Strong points to this book :- Excellent, dark atmosphere. - Rich worldbuilding. Weak points :- Character depth. - Storyline and its execution. Still a good read!
The Lesser Evil puts up with the self-righteousness of the Self-Righteous prick and generally acts in a very honourable way and is the most interesting and three-dimensional character, which is quite funny because he is supposed have no human soul left in him.
Events take forever to set up, and then when something does happen, I'm like "what the hell?
I don't care."I didn't like the characters, for the most part.
There were three main ones: Gerald Tarrant, a fairly interesting anti-hero; Ciani, the female protagonist, and Damien, the male protagonist.
Well, I liked Gerald Tarrant pretty well, was indifferent to Ciani one way or the other, and I disliked Damien.The dialogue was pretty horrible too, and probably the reason I didn't like the characters.
They sounded like heroes from a bad B-movie and even Tarrant sounded more like a Scooby-Doo villain half the time than a normal person.
Black Sun Rising is the first novel in C.S. Friedman’s popular COLDFIRE trilogy.
I read Dominion, the prequel novella, a couple of years ago after reading (and loving) several of her science fiction novels.
I admire Friedman’s worldbuilding and her writing style.The COLDFIRE trilogy feels like traditional epic fantasy, but it would best be categorized as science fantasy because it takes place in the far future on Erna, a planet colonized by humans looking for a habitable world.
When they got to this world, they discovered that natural laws work differently.
There is an old episode of Star Trek .
. .Okay, for you born after the 1990s, I'm talking about the really old ones.
You know the ones with the Enterprise attached to a string, with Leonard, with Shatner and his ever changing girdle.Anyway, in this episode, Lt. Uhura, who is very cool, gets her knowledge zapped by some alien in bad make up.That's this book, sorta.The book is about power, knowledge, people, and cost.
Very few books deal with cost.
I enjoyed this book very much.See there is this guy and he thinks he is in love with a girl, who is OLDER than he is.
Although it is in many ways a typical quest tale, Friedman gives it a couple of twists that distinguish it from earlier quest tales—one member of the party is undoubtedly evil and the party is looking to track down a demon-type entity which has stolen the memories of one of the party.
They are not looking for an object, but for a target, bringing back a memory, not a trophy.The world Erna, where this tale takes place, reminded me somewhat of Sheri Tepper’s world, Grass.
I very much look forward to continuing the series.Book number 296 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy Reading Project.
E in questo mondo tanto diverso dalla nostra Terra devono muoversi gli uomini e le donne che del nostro pianeta sono originari, che con la loro origine così diversa dalla fisica di Erna hanno finito per causare un autentico terremoto evolutivo sul pianeta coloniale, vittime e plasmatori delle corrente magiche che li circondano.
Don't let my low ranking deter you - this is a perfectly fine book, just not my exactly my personal cup of tea.First off it has kind of a fairytale vibe for me - and I never liked those.It also starts off with a feel like a secondary world - but after a short while (so no spoiler) we learn that it actually us humans in the future - and I personally HATE mix ups of realworld and secondary worlds.
No idea why - it just doesn't click with me.It is written emotionally - don't get me wrong, it isn't a romance or anything, but I much prefer a style that is more matter of fact and way faster paced.
five stars for classic science fantasy with wonderful world building. vivid setting and characters, a straight-forward and satisfying story. my only complaint concerned anachronisms in the prose style (e.g. characters from a pseudo-medieval (or maybe pseudo-neogothic) culture using corporate slang like "PR"). but overall, this is a wonderful series and deserves to be revisited in this era of gritty fantasy. i'm looking for the rest of the series.
This doesn't mix very well with human technology, so what we have here is a kind of post-apocalyptic science fantasy (indeed, the characters stop at an Inn of the New Sun early in the book, hint hint).With that (very appealing!) background in place, our story proper begins with a priest meeting, and immediately falling in love with, a renowned scholar.
Black Sun Rising is another highly recommended fantasy novel that I took my time to get around to finally reading.
The biggest - issue - I had with Black Sun Rising, and the biggest drawing point of the novel, is that compared to other similar fantasies it is very alien.
As can be common in fantasy, the themes and ideas overwhelm the ability of the author's writing and many phrases and descriptions are reused with annoying regularity throughout the plot.
If you want to enter a reading experience with a world such as this featured within it then give this book a try.
No more.One reason why this book gets two and not one star is the magic system, which is interesting, if confusing - humans can use, consciously or unconsciously, natural forces of the planet Erna (called fae) to, well, do stuff, like materialize fantasies or nightmares, or change reality in accordance to their purpose.
Or something.So, that's the good start.Then we have our main characters - kind of vampire/evil fae/ex-human, priest (faith is the weapon of mass destruction here), chick/ex-adept in magic and kind of sidekick of the said chick go on a quest, searching for stolen...I don't know...adept-ness of the chick (she can't do magic anymore).
The world-building and the magic system are really original and well-written and the characters are quite complex and well-developed, but sometimes the plot itself bored me.
I also had problems with Ciani; she pissed me off so freaking much and what bothers me most is that I don't even know why!I liked the other characters though, which helped because otherwise I don't think I would have been able to enjoy Black Sun Rising like I did.
I think that that's the reason why I liked Black sun rising but I couldn't bring myself to love it: I was impressed with Friedman's ideas, but that doesn't mean that I actually liked them all.
We've barely been introduced to our main characters when suddenly they are thrust into their Designated Quest, supposedly in part because of the deep feelings two of the characters apparently formed for each other virtually overnight.
Also, I couldn't tell if one character's Secret Identity was really supposed to be a secret from the reader or not, since it seemed glaringly obvious to me from the beginning, so the unraveling of that particular mystery by the other characters struck me as tedious.
Perhaps more of the backstory will be explained in the subsequent books in the series...I'm giving them a chance, at least.
I am almost finished with this book and even though it took me longer than usual to get into the story, i must admit that right now I will have a tough time putting the book down.
I want to know what happens.In this story, I seem to like the bad guy (a/k/a Gerald Tarrant) way better than the "good" guy (a/k/a Damien Vryce).
Gerald has this "je ne sais quoi" about him, and I cannot help but like him ...
As for Zen, oh well, read the book and you'll understand what I mean.
So far, all in al, it has been an entertaining read.
Great read!
I struggled, oh how I struggled.
This was the second time I started this book, the first was a DNF.
This time I did get to half the book, but yawn.The world is fascinating!
Scifi mixed with fantasy.
Humans came to a planet and settled.
They lost their tech ad found magic and a cruel world.
After 250 pages I started to skim.
At the end I closed the book, and will not read more or care what happens.I will give it a ok grade for that amazing world and the promise it held.
I did half like it at times.
