https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32701385-maigret-and-the-man-on-the-bench
This is a brand new modern translation of a book I've previously read a few years ago.Do we ever know our spouse or partner?
Here Simenon presents a twist on the murdered husband who after being found killed in an alley is not the man everyone at home believed him to be.Clever police procedural which shows Maigret often in the office waiting for the phone to ring when all he wants to do is pound the beat and ask the questions.
Those who have found this great writer will found new treats re-reading them in a fresh translation.
New readers have a unique chance to find Maigret for themselves.
The Georges Simenon's novels featuring detective Maigret are slow, but entertainging, crime stories. This is the third one I've read & it's no exception. Maigret carries out his interviews methodically, only pausing for an occasional puff on his pipe. It's unlikely I'll read all 75 novels in the series (or the 28 short stories), but they are good to dip into once in a while.The recent UK TV series stars Rowan Atkinson as Maigret & while he may not have the physical build of the detective his delivery of the dialogue is exactly how I imagine Maigret would speak.
The mystery in Maigret and the Man on the Bench does not rise to much, but readers won’t care.
The 41st novel’s main focus is the imperative to carve out a little of bit of freedom when one is bullied for years and years.
But it turns out that the worm has turned, and that everything his disapproving wife, sisters-in-law and brothers-in-law think they know about Touret isn’t true.
Like Maigret, you will be secretly cheering on Touret for finding a window of freedom and happiness before his untimely end.
A man is found stabbed to death. In the investigation, it is discovered his life is a web of lies and deception. He has been out of work for about three years, but his wife thinks he is still working. He has an income from an unknown source. He wears different shoes when not with his family. And apparently he spent much of his time during the day sitting on a bench.
Another fine, fast moving and atmospheric 'Maigret' novel. I don't know what more to say about it really. There are 75 'Maigret' novels in existence and I have now read about half of them. I tend to give each one three stars, apart from the occasional book that I give four, but if I could consider the entire series (so far) as a single unit I would give it five stars without doubt. The individual novels are good but not spectacular; but they gradually build up and accumulate into a greater entity that really is superb.
He manages to continue to leave the house at the same time every morning and to come home at the same time every evening, and also manages to give his wife the same amount of money at the end of each month as if he was still receiving his regular salary.
All of these disparate characters led the murdered man to lead his double life and, in some way, manage to earn a living somehow.
Suddenly, however, Maigret learns that his way of earning a living was on the wrong side of the law, and forces Maigret to come to terms with a whole new cast of characters.
In most cases, the book begins when a murder has occurred; Chief Inspector Maigret finds the perpetrator--not by sniffing out physical evidence but rather by arriving at a deep understanding the victim's life and probable motive of the killer.
Never have I read an author better able to create rich, round, credible characters--often several who are fully developed in the space of a mere 200 pages.After reading so many of his books in French, I was worried about being distracted by poorly chosen words in a translation.
(The conclusion is more than usually quirky, however; perhaps that part alone may have lost a little something in the translation.)

The feelings began to build up as I neared completing this, my two hundredth book to read this year.
As good as Maigret always is- for me, closing in on number two hundred became the overwhelming feeling.
I had always thought of myself as a reader, but I've never read so much like this although I may have read nearly as much many years ago.
Reading like this again now is like getting close, again, to an old friend from whom you had unconsciously drifted away.
Another nice short mystery by Georges Simenon. I really like the way he goes about investigating cases and his relationship with the "suspects" although I was a bit surprised at who the killer turned out to be in this book because it wasn't set up well. I love the way he's constantly slipping into restaurants, bars or cafes for a beer, a glass of wine, or an aperitif. Is this a French thing or is it a 1950s thing? Must read more to find out.
I am really enjoying these books - a really great series and who can't love a detective who loves his food and beer.
A French detective investigates a murder.I really enjoyed this book – it’s short / punchy style and icon central character made it a quick / easy / good read.
Enjoyable mystery.First "Maigret" I have read, and although I will read more I have no plans to read the entire series.A colleague of mine has remarked that she was surprised at the conclusion, because it was not well set up. I agree.
Un excellent livre qui m'a permis de découvrir George Simenon.J'ai trouvé ce livre et j'ai eu la curiosité de le lire à cause d'une note que j'ai trouvé sur le livre." A la belle du 22, avec tout mon amour" comme quoi cela m'a donné envie de le lire et je n'ai pas ete decu.Lire est beauAmanda.
[Shrugs, stares out at the rain]I'm no expert on Simenon or Maigret, but I remember reading somewhere that Simenon had a system for creating a Maigret novel in a fixed amount of days.
I can only assume this system involved spending much of the time creating a beautiful, twisty, mysterious 120 pages and then getting frustrated and impatient and writing the first ending that comes to mind.
Great characters, though I find Maigret a little rude and thorny--maybe his humor gets a little lost in translation.
Excellent mystery.
Solution totally bogus.[Shrugs, stares out at the rain some more, lights his pipe]
Not the very best Simenon, but still rates a 5 star! His Paris and Parisians, not the least Maigret himself, and the chief inspectors's quiet and dogged and inspired pursuit of motive, make him so entertaining. A body found in a city park leads Maigret back into the man's personal life and as our detective he puffs on his pipe and stands at cafe bars, all come clear to him.
I am amazed after reading this murder mystery on how well this author can tell a story. This one has many twists and turns, and has some interesting characters as well, including Fred the clown. My quest now is to find all 75 Maigret series books and to read them. I just finished number two.I highly recommend this book to whomever loves a good mystery.
Classic Maigret novel in which he investigates murder of a man afraid to tell his wife he has lost his job, but who supplements his income with crime. The familiar Simenon tropes are all there - loveless marriage, spoilt child, etc - from his 'romans durs' but leavened by the human approach of Maigret himself. A good read.
Maigret works really hard. Phew! He gets so much done in a day, you might even think Simenon had never worked in an office.
kollan nemidoonam chera aslan az seri ketabayaye maigret(megre)khosham nemiad ziad:(
This is Simenon back on form with another majestic Maigret.
This is I think his 41st Maigret and whilst they have not all been classics, it is remarkable though how he maintained pretty high standards in all these books.
There is always a dark secret at the heart of the mystery yet though we know Maigret will get to the bottom of it, we are kept in suspense until the final chapter in which a weary Inspector will reveal all in an unjudgemental manner.
'Maigret and the Man on the Bench' does not disappoint.
He was sacked from his job as a warehouse man two years ago but never told his wife, and now somehow makes a lot of money, wears weird "goose poo" shoes and loud ties, and spends much of the day sitting on street benches in Paris.
His daughter who works in the city, and her student boyfriend, are all somewhat mixed up in this, as is a clown faced ex-con Maigret last dealt with fifteen years ago.
For the bulk of the well paced story you had no real idea what was going, who had any kind of murder motive, or indeed how the murder victim was making his money.
An excellent Maigret, based in Paris and its suburbs.
Moderate people, struggling to survive, and to progress both materially and in family life.The GR blurb:'Inspector Maigret must untangle the web of lies left behind by a murdered man whose family didn’t know him as well as they thought.
The forty-first book in the new Penguin Maigret series.When a man is found stabbed to death in an alley off Boulevard Saint-Martin, his identity card shows a workplace that had gone out of business three years earlier.
Can Maigret find him?'
Доста от нещата съм чел през годините, но ми доставя огромно удоволствие да ги препрочитам, а с други се срещаме за първи път.
Именно такъв е случая и с "Мегре и човекът на пейката".
Обстановката е представена вълнуващо и езика, който Сименон използва, с лекота те пренася в Париж, през 50-те години на миналия век.
Иначе самата история си е симпатично наивна, инспектор Мегре не е брилянтния Холмс, нито надутия Поаро, а обикновен полицай, който обаче залага на своя нюх, наблюдателност и малко късмет, за да разплита криминалните загадки, пред които е изправен.
The victim is an unemployed man who leads a double life having devised an ingenious - and criminal - way to get the money to maintain appearances and two households, and allay the suspicions of his horrible wife.
The first part of this is quite good as Simenon is an acute psychologist of those who live in quiet desperation - including the horrible wife.
Things start to get weaker when Maigret interrogates the horrible daughter and her boyfriend and then it turns out that the murder was committed by someone outside the family circle - decent police work might have turned him up earlier.
In this story a working stiff named Louis Thuret is found stabbed to death in a dark alley.
Investigation shows a wife who distained him since he was not as successful as her brothers-in-law, and a daughter who acts suspiciously.
Things get interesting when it is discovered that unbeknownst to his wife, Louis has been out of work for several years and often sits on benches around town.
Who is the strange old man seen by witnesses to visit with him on these benches?
Well, we will find out from dogged and intelligent police work.
The feelings began to build up as I neared completing this, my two hundredth book to read this year.
As good as Maigret always is- for me, closing in on number two hundred became the overwhelming feeling.
I had always thought of myself as a reader, but I've never read so much like this although I may have read nearly as much many years ago.
Reading like this again now is like getting close, again, to an old friend from whom you had unconsciously drifted away.
For once thing they are short and easy to read in one day.
This book came in handy on my way back home during the flight, it was easy to carry.
In this novel Maigret must unravel the secret life of the victim, who is not really known or understood by his family.
A clever police procedural, shows, Maigret at his best by resolving the crime by getting to understand and know the victim and also his family members and friends.
Wonderful background of Paris, the food and drinks and also the supporting cast of inspectors working with Maigret.
"Ozio padre dei vizi": un proverbio facilmente riassume l'intera vicenda.Un insieme di poco colore in cui due dei personaggi-tipo, canonici in Simenon - la matrona dispotica e burattinaia; l'inetto rovesciato dall'urlo dell'io - si manifestano alla guisa di spettri debolucci, senza la forza di incarnarsi.
Le strade rese fangose dalle piogge incessanti, le birre bevute alla brasserie Dauphine, le lente boccate di fumo aspirate dalla pipa durante gli interrogatori al Quai des Orfevres. Leggere un Maigret è come assaporare un bicchierino di Calvados, lasciando che il suo aroma si diffonda lentamente fino raggiungere, con tutte le sue sfaccettature, le più remote sensibilità gustative ed olfattive.
