https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10533438-the-sexes
The Sexes is a small collection of Dorothy Parker's short stories about relationships, and is published as part of Penguin's mini modern classics series.The first story, the Sexes, is a masterclass in dialogue: taught, lucid, and oozing with an admixture of cultural, emotional and interpersonal tension.
Glory in the Daytime is a sharp vignette contrasting the human costs of fame against the droll existence of normalcy, and Lolita is a strange but elegant story of the smallness of attitude fostered by small town life.The Sexes is an perfectly tempered collection of short stories that not only underlines the genius of Dorothy Parker, but also serves as a intricate lesson about the complexities of human emotion and sexual politics.
This book of short stories was a joy to read. There are five stories included and my personal favourite was" The Little Hours" ... Something about being up in the small hours of the morning was really captured well by Dorothy in this story.. This book is a wonderful addition to any booklovers shelves especially if you already a fan of the great woman.
Pretty much "bah" except for "Lolita" which I really liked.
This has been the year of the short story for me, and this miniature collection was entirely satisfying. Her talent for layering meaning and intent in a simple sentence is delicious.
I want to like Parker far more than I do. She can turn a very nice sentence but there's something cold and empty at the core of most of her stories.
Reading this the second time I still liked these short stories but did not love them. While they're clever and entertaining the dialogue just never rings true to life for me, there is something very carefully constructed about them (I'm not sure how much of a bad thing that necessarily is, though?). Still, I'd be interested in reading more of her. If not, I'll probably re-read this book in another 3 years anyway.
Disappointing short stories with surprisingly mundane dialogue.
Strongly reminiscent of the language used in 'Cather in the Rye', these short stories paint a vivid portrait of everyday longing, hardships, triumphs... An excellent introduction to Parker's work.
Reading Dorothy Parker is like curling up under a warm, colorful blanket. This is a nice new Penguin series that makes very good writing accessible and portable.
If you need an introduction to Dorothy Parker, this is a quick and compelling starting point.
Common theme: at least one character is upset at being left, and in words and deeds express the sentiment: "You can't leave me alone like this."
