https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1060412.Achtung_Panzer_
If ever you find a tank parked in your driveway and suddenly develop a need to invade a small country.. this is the book for you.
-En palabras del propio autor, “narrar el desarrollo del tanque desde el punto de vista del soldado que lo utiliza”.-Género.
Primero, una revisión de la concepción, actividad operativa en el campo de batalla y desarrollo de los tanques durante la Gran Guerra.
Después, análisis de las innovaciones técnicas y tácticas del arma blindada (y de sus contramedidas) durante la postguerra.
A continuación, una revisión de las fuerzas motorizadas y blindadas alemanas bajo las condiciones del Diktat de Versalles.
Por último, exposición de postulados sobre la forma de combate de las tropas blindadas (analizando situaciones reales pasadas), su combinación con otras armas y la valoración de potenciales situaciones contemporáneas al autor.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Quite good - detailed description of tank's history, and operations during WWI. Second part of the book provides some details about building the new army after WWI, and thoughts about future operations.
Хайнц Гудериан е може би най-успешният танков генерал на Вермахта през Втората световна война, създател на т.н.
бърза война (блицкриг, макар че той не я нарича така), основата на която е бързо и агресивно навлизане на многобройни танкови части през линиите на противника дълбоко в неговата позиция.
Благодарение на тази тактика, Германия завладява за отрицателно време половин Европа, но по-интересното в случая е, че Гудериан разработва доктрината на използването на танкови сили в тази книга не само преди да има какъвто и да е опит в ръководството на такива, но и преди изобщо танковете да станат основна част от военните сили на която и да е държава.
Guderian was ahead of all the leading foreign military "armoured specialists", in the way armour was to be employed in the field, and went on to prove it in Germany's early successes of the war.
What struck me most about this work is that it was written in a time when tanks were, at least by some, considered secondary to infantry.
Consequently, the interwar years tanks were an untried weapon leading up to the outbreak of WWII, and the "Blitzkrieg" campaigns owed much of their success to (apart from Guderian) these fast, mechanically reliable, versitile machines, and the tank was never doubted again.
This book is not for the casual reader of World War II history. Written between the wars, this is Guderian's account of the development of German armored tactics which would later be labeled as "Blitzkreig" For the more serious WWII scholar, Guderian's book is essential reading that should sit beside Rommel's "Infantry Attacks".
Very good book for any history or war buff. Heinz Guderian writing in 1937 theorizes what he called Total War, and we called Blitzkrieg.This book is a short but thoughtful book. The author lays out the problem and provides his insight in resolving the mistakes of the past.When I finished reading I wondered if the enemy ever read the book. Were they prepared or did they wait to be confronted and then try to solve the puzzle.
Containing tank development start from its first introduction in ww1 to its possible usage for the next war. Some about operational tactics discussed. This book also include several interesting tables such as technical specification of ww1 and interwar period tank and world production share of motor vehicles.
This was a very good book about first, the development of the tank and then its use in the world wars. How major general Heinz Guderian used the German Panzer. But, not only that, he discusses the change from the tank being an infantry support vehicle to being its own separate divisional unit.
A superb book on the development and theory of armored warfare prior to ww2. It May be a bit biased in certain aspects off the period's politics but all' in all a must read for armor entusiasts.
Amazing. I love studying Military tactics
Very interesting book on the origins of armoured forces and the use of armor as a standalone force.
I was inside the mind of a genious.This isnt an easy book to read, I tought that it is a bit boring, specially for someone that doesnt like military strategy and it isnt familiarize with the theme. Also it would be great to update the maps of the battles.Unfortunately for mankind, Guderian created, at the time, the best army in the world thanks to its revolutionary theories about the use of tanks and the creation of a mecanized independent tank brigade and the close cooperation between the panze

Published just before the second world war, this exceptional book is Heinz Guderian's play book for armoured warfare.
Then, he takes us through the developments after the First World War, concentrating on how Britian, France and Russia adapted the armoured warfare concept.
It is no wonder, reading through this book, that the Germany tank forces and indeed military as a whole were so successful during the opening years of the Second World War.For military buff's, this is a must read and exceptionally well translated.
Written in 1937, this book is an interesting study of "what went wrong" in World War I, which is Guderian's focus throughout the text, as he probes different strategies that failed and succeeded.
Not only that, but two years after this book was published World War II started and the same tactics Guderian outlines in his text are used.
A lot of technical details make this read not necessarily a "pleasure" read, but scholars and history buffs will love Guderian's in-depth analysis (also, the ending of the book ends on an interesting flourish commonly found in ancient Greek texts, where the writer invokes the favour of the gods for victory, revealing Guderian's classical education, common for officers in that era, adding a personal touch to this purposeful study).

-En palabras del propio autor, “narrar el desarrollo del tanque desde el punto de vista del soldado que lo utiliza”.-Género.
Primero, una revisión de la concepción, actividad operativa en el campo de batalla y desarrollo de los tanques durante la Gran Guerra.
Después, análisis de las innovaciones técnicas y tácticas del arma blindada (y de sus contramedidas) durante la postguerra.
A continuación, una revisión de las fuerzas motorizadas y blindadas alemanas bajo las condiciones del Diktat de Versalles.
Por último, exposición de postulados sobre la forma de combate de las tropas blindadas (analizando situaciones reales pasadas), su combinación con otras armas y la valoración de potenciales situaciones contemporáneas al autor.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Heinz Guderian was a pioneer in the development of armored warfare and the most important military strategist in the first half of the 20th century.
Achtung-Panzer!
is a military classic and a good read.
As a primmer, I would recommend "Kaiserschlacht 1918" by Randal Gray from Osprey Publishing.
The Ludendorff Offensive represented a paradigm shift in war-fighting, and helped shape Guderian's views on the importance of armor, maneuver warfare, adaptability and initiative.
Heinz Guderian's autobiography is a thick read and should be avoided for all but the history and strategy buffs.
I would also recommend Panzer Leader
With that said, this book is not for everyone.
Achtung Panzer is not a memoir or a novel, it is Guderian's argument for the use of tanks in modern warfare.
This book sums up tank use in WWI and the development of "blitzkrieg," albeit with Guderian's fairly biased opinions.
After the war Guderian played the book and his own role up a little bit but he was undoubtedly an important player in the development of Germany's Panzer Forces.All in all the book can be dry at moments and don't expect any epic story-telling, but it is still one of my favorite books.
Written in a straightforward manner, which may be how Guderian did it originally, or extra work on the part of the translator.
Starts with a look at how the tank evolved, based on his own experiences in WWI.
Then it follows up with how the Allies improved things after (Germany wasn't allowed to make its own following the Versailles Treaty).There are chapters on the organisation of German panzer units and how they fit in with other arms to work together and achieve objectives.Overall it's a good book.
There are occasionally pieces which come across as flattery or self-aggrandizing (possibly to make the views appeal to other armed forces who had different ideas about tanks than Guderian).
Clearly written/translated and organised into sensible sections.
Excellent introduction and notes in the English translation.Only real complaint is the production of the edition I read (Cassell paperbacks).
The type is too small throughout the book, almost amusingly so by the time it gets to the end of chapter notes.
The original maps have been reproduced, but, while these may have been a paragon of clarity in their time, would benefit from being re-drawn as finer vector line art – at present they appear dense and confusing with a great density of lines and labels in a small space.
The Great War examples were astonishing and clearly pointed out how and why the tanks were invented and how they were misused at that point.
This then reveals the thought process behind the combined arms approach to (tank) warfare.In the "what goes on now" part one can see pretty clearly some of the forecoming developments, vehicle-wise at least.A very, very interesting read.
I had a good amount of "of course that's the way it should work!" moments while reading about the "modern panzer tactics" and I guess that's just proof of how advanced Guderian's work was, as it pretty much holds true today.
A very far-sighted analysis of the panzer weapons capabilities. One of the most talented military commanders of the 20th century begins with thorough dissection of WW1 positional warfare, proceeds to analyse allied tank attacks at the Somme, Cambrai and Soisson and then prognoses, how the future of tanks and war in general looks. His insights were proved very soon after this book was published- and when german tanks overran Poland, France, and a big chunk of USSR, Germany had mainly Guderian to thank for it.
A solid primary source for those interested in learning about the pre-WWII evolution of German armoured theory. However, enthusiasts should take note that much of the book centres on Guderian's analysis of Allied tank usage during the Great War, so be prepared for an historical lesson within an historical lesson. :-)Also, be aware that carrying this book around in public makes you look like a neo-nazi. Steal the book-cover off something else (preferably something socially acceptable like the newest addition to the YA fiction craze) if you're going to read this on the bus.
An excellent history and study of early tank warfare. Would have been four stars but for the helpful notes, context, and corrections by the English language editor. Guderian does a great job of examining WW 1 tank operations and explaining the lessons of what went right and wrong in those battles. He then applies those lessons to the then-current (mid-late 1930s) political situation to argue how armor warfare should be fought. Guderian's arguments are clear, concise, and prophetic. When the Germans followed his outline, they rolled over their enemies.
Una aproximación diferente a la Primera Guerra Mundial, a sus consecuencias y a la tecnología y las tácticas asociadas de la guerra. Es un poco escalofriante ver cómo Guderian habla de la guerra desde un punto de vista podríamos decir científico o cómo habla de la Guerra Civil Española como un laboratorio del que aprender lecciones.Si Hitler hubiese dejado las decisiones militares a Guderian y otros militares alemanes me imagino que esta reseña la estaría escribiendo en alemán.
Quite possibly the seminal book in 20th Century War Studies because out of it came the then-most fearful war machine in the history of the world. The key to this book is in understanding Guderian's broad theory: mobilization, coordination and communication. If you don't know anything about WWII, steer clear of this one. If you do, then this might interest you. If you're an armoured warfare buff, this is a must-read.
I wouldn't say I "really liked" Guderian's Achtung Panzer, but this is such a fundamental book for anyone interested in the development of mechanized warfare in the inter war period that it deserves this 4-star mark.One can see there the core of Guderian's main ideas on C3, combined arms cooperation and mobility as the decisive factors in armored operations.
I read this book in English, the Brockhampton Press edition, and found it to be a fascinating read, every bit the book others promised it to be. A standard reference for more than half a century, this book must be on your bookshelf if you have any interest in armoured warfare. It may even improve your skill at Avalon Hill panzer games.
Guderian is very in depth of how armored forces were developed in World War 1, and even expresses the importance of armored divisions (rather than infantry combined with armored).Any military Historian should read this great book!
