https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156770.The_Return_of_the_Indian
I am not sure why Lynne Reid Banks feels the need to ruin these great books with coarse words. The Indian in the Cupboard series are great. Boys and girls both love them. There isn't much that could be more exciting to a child than their toys coming to life. But is it necessary to us a--, and other words similar to this in a child's book? I just finished reading this aloud to my children. They loved it. I edited out the words that weren't necessary as I was going.
Overall, the Return of the Indian was a good book, but not amazing. The Indian in the Cupboard, the first book of the series, was more exciting, yet this was a good enough sequel. It has more problems and drama when Little Bear demands "now-guns," his name for modern guns. However, him and his tribe have no training on how to use them, and trouble occurs... Banks doesn't explain the characters as well as the first book.
"The Return of the Indian", the sequel to "The Indian in the Cupboard", is about a boy named Omri, a boy named Patrick, a miniature Native American brave called Little Bear, and a miniature Native American squaw called Bright Stars.
When Omri opens his magic cupboard again (after keeping it closed for a year) he finds that his best friend Little Bear is now an Indian Chief and he has been wounded.
Omri and Patrick must help the wounded Little Bear.
As Little Bear recovers, he tells them of the French and Indian War between his people and the French.
In my humble little opinion this book is practically equal in its appeal to the first, which can be 
The Return of the Indian is the second of the Indian in the Cupboard series.
After a year of keeping the cupboard locked, Omri decides to see Little Bear again.When Omri brings Little Bear back to life he learns first hand the brutality of war.
In an effort to help Little Bear win the war, Omri and his friends interfere first by sending weapons back and then by going back themselves.See, it's not the cupboard that's magic, it's actually the key.
Perhaps later books dig deeper in the magic behind the key.I enjoyed the darker themes of The Return of the Indian but I still found Omri a rather dull lead character.
My kids loved it!
Another book club book success!
Book Review of Return of the Indian- by Lynne Reid Banks  "Return of the Indian" is the second book of four in the classic series of "The Indian in the Cupboard." The series narrates different tales of a child's toys coming to life, similar to the Disney movie "A Toy Story." Main character Omri in "Return of the Indian" controls the fate of his toys, obliging him to make many adult decisions throughout the novel. It’s not always fun and games for Omri when the toys don't want to get along with e
The first novel ended with Omri giving the key to his magical cupboard (which brings his toys to life) to his mother because he wanted to avoid the constant temptation to influence his toys lives.
Omri asks for Patrick's help after convincing him that the magic in the cupboard still exists.
Matron saves Little Bull, however she also has another announcement to make about Twin Stars.
It all started when Omri and Patrick found out how to put themselves in Indian time of Little Bear.
And then another man came but then they fell down, Omri got blinded.
Omri went quietly upstairs, and hoped Corporal Ficketts didn't die in the war, put him in the cupboard and turned the key.
And you're not going fight with Indians this time, but British soldiers.
Then Patrick got a book, something flat, and put all the soldiers on it.
Patrick turned on the lights and said "Fire!" Corporal Ficketts said, "Fire at will!" And then the soldiers started shooting.Ok that's it for now.
Omri is a year older, so he's dealing with more mature issues, specifically some skinhead bullies in his new neighborhood.
Omri has won a writing contest for the story of the Indian.
Even though that bit is a bit self-congratulatory on the part of the author, it also has some good insights into the writing process, which can be very useful to kids.Then we get into what we were waiting for - yay!
So it's a very mixed message, but then, so is reality.If you don't want your kids exposed to violence, this is not the book for you.
Onri brings Little Bear back to tell him a bit of news, only to find that the Iroquois village has been destroyed by the French and his friend nearly killed.
Reluctantly, Onri agrees to supply Little Bear with weapons to strike back against the French, but comes to realize that he isn't necessarily supporting the "good" side.
But if your child decides to read it at home and you're okay with that (I think I would be), just make sure to pair their reading with information on real native tribes.
You can often find great museum resources in your area for your local tribes, so check them out!
(They are nameless, but we still definitely feel for them through the suffering of Little Bear and the nurse who can't save them.) The Indian death is hard on Omri too because it is a consequence of his allowing Little Bear to have "now guns." That there are consequences to decisions we make & actions we take is a good topic for discussion, but do use judgement when sharing with a sensitive child.]
In the Indian in the Cupboard #1, Omri gets a magic cupboard but nobody knows it's magic until Omri puts a toy Indian inside and he comes to life.
So, Omri makes more Indians come to life and sends them back with Little Bear.
I liked when Omri and his best friend Patrick found out that it wasn't the cupboard that was magic, it was the key that fit in the hole.
It fit in the hole of a big chest and they found out that they could go back to Little Bear's time if they were touching something from his time.
In this sequel to "The Indian in the Cupbard", Omri brings Little Bull back to life after a year in order to share with him that he has won first prize in a writing contest.
Omri and his friend Patrick help to save Little Bull but then contribute to disastrous consequences when they send modern day weapons back with Little Bull in order for him to attack the Algonquins.
At the end of the book, a collection of armed toy Indians that are brought to life are used to attack some skinheads who are burgling Omri's house when he is home alone with Patrick.
I liked it. They bring back Little Bear and Boone cause Patrick came on a vacation from his new house. They lose the key and Little Bear got really hurt and they couldn't get anybody to help him and they needed to save Little Bear. My favorite part was burglars were coming to their house and he shot the burglars with teeny guns and it was really funny.
Después de haber terminado el primero de los libros de este volumen, La llave mágica, tengo una opinión encontrada al respecto: por una parte, enseña al público joven nociones históricas y también morales, como en la página 131, cuando Omri le dice a Patrick, sobre los hombrecitos de plástico vivientes: «Tú los utilizas.
Pero son personas.
Y a las personas no se las utiliza».
Que la novela esté anticuada en cuestiones de género no extraña teniendo en cuenta que pertenece a los 80, pero no es un libro que recomendaría en la actualidad, sobre todo a una audiencia joven.
I felt like this was a great sequel.
Omri and Patrick have moved away from each other, it's been about a year.
Omri has written a story for a fiction contest about his experience with the cupboard, and it won first prize.
He decides to put Little Bear back into the cupboard and see how he's doing.
Omri goes to get Patrick, and they bring a matron to heal him.
He is told a story of how the French as well as other tribes are attacking their village.
This story is just as exciting as the first one.
Oh my goodness!
I will be sharing this one with my boys as we move back into our nighttime reading before bed.Omri has brought his friend Little Bear back in his magic cupboard, and it seems it was just in time!
Little Bear was injured in the fighting that was raging in his village.
But the adventures are just starting there.
As the adventure moves on, the boys attempt to help their friend protect his village.
Little Bear has returned as the new Chief, since his father has passed.
But the adventures are going to keep on coming in this read!
The continued references to Native Americans as "savages" is starting to irk me a bit, but the story continued beautifully. We got to see Omri's growth as a person, and it's easy to see why Patrick might lose his faith in the experience he'd had in the first book. I'm looking forward to reading the last 3 stories in this series. I DO hope that the image of Native Americans as "savages" is finally addressed and done away with.
This is a delightful continuation on the adventures related in Indian in the cupboard. Banks begins to explore more in depth how the cupboard, key, and time travel work. This is kind of where the story breaks down for me. The mechanics of the whole process are poorly explained and don't seem to have a definitive logic. However, it is a kids book. I don't remember this being a problem when I first read it at age 8.
We enjoyed the second adventure of Omni, Patrick, Little Bear, and Boone as much as their first. Once again, the imaginative premise provides a setting from which to explore differences and similarities between people from varied backgrounds. It took a little while to set the stage and launch into the action, but the second half of the book flew by.
My children were enthralled with this sequel to the Indian in the Cupboard. I did not find that it had the same magic or charm as the first book, but I also grew up reading it, so it may have more of an emotional attachment. Asher and Judah loved every minute of it, and begged for ''one more chapter'' every night.
We loved this book! Reading to our sons, ages 8 and 6, the four of us could not wait to read a chapter or two every night before bed. Despite what other reviewers have said, the language was not a problem for us. We enjoyed this book better than the first - it seems to have more excitement and action than the first. We will keep reading books in the series.
I adore these books. It makes me sad that these probably won't be on any sort of summer reading list for kids because they aren't exactly "politically correct" and people can get offended by just about anything these days. But these books are so clever, so magical, and so fun. I can't wait to read them to my kids.
Wonderful second installment! While initially I took issue with Omri abandoning his thoughtful nature and bringing whatever crew he needed to life in order to fight the skin heads, I realize now that it is a great sub-plot which helps to illustrate how he would go along with the "now-guns" plan as as he is able to empathize so easily with Little Bear and his plight.
What started out as a cute imaginative story in book one took a darker turn in this book...it made me nervous and stressed out because it became more "real." It's not really a lighthearted kid's story.
Good story, but...I found a few distracting typos in this ebook. Even the protagonist is called "Qmri" on one page. Good story though, I read it to my kid and he can't wait for the next one.
Second entry in the series adds more drama, more compassion, and arguable as the character has aged so has the maturity and strength of the book. The plot is strong and the characters believable in what is a decent read, I will look out for the next book in the series to read. Well worth reading.
My kids loved this just as much as the first. I would say the first is better but, it was still a fun read.
This series was brilliant! Some part of me still has nightmares about being turned into a teepee and then being burned alive.
