https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404874.Rest_You_Merry
Christmas great escape group read..with my Great Escape gals!! :D3.5
I adored the late Charlotte MacLeod’s Kelling series so, so much that I devoured all 12 books and only wish she’d lived to write a dozen more.
So when my book club, the Great Escape, suggested Rest You Merry, the first novel in MacLeod’s Peter Shandy series, as our December read, no one was more enthusiastic than I.
Special thanks to my Great Escape sisters for a chance to launch into yet another Charlotte MacLeod series.
And with 10 books in the Peter Shandy series, I will be enjoying myself for years to come.
4.5 rounded up. Wonderful first entry in the Peter Shandy series.
I downloaded this book a few days ago because I was looking for a quick read to fit in before Christmas, and this one had good ratings. For me it was pretty mediocre. The characters felt pretty interchangeable and the mystery wasn't especially clever. Overall it was just okay and I don't plan to read more in the series. And I didn't even finish it by Christmas!
He's also been such a private type that his colleagues and neighbors on campus didn't seem to realize some of these things until one particular Christmas season.Every year the campus puts on a massive festival called the Grand Illumination and all of the houses on campus (Shandy's included) are expected to participate.
The messier the mess gets, the more Horik-ish Svenson seems.
I love it.Of course, the mystery gets solved by the end thanks to Shandy and his best friend's son-in-law's aunt (didja get that?), Helen.
A fun "who-dunnit" with a Christmas theme. Peter Shandy is a professor at the esteemed Balaclava College. During the Illumination, the yearly Christmas celebration on campus, Shandy stumbles onto not just one, but two dead bodies. When the authorities don't seem to share his sense of urgency, Shandy - along with help from the ever resourceful Helen Marsh - does some detective work of his own. While I felt this dragged a tad in some parts, I enjoyed the story as a whole and would like to read the next in the series.
First in the Peter Shandy series. Very funny. Set at the fictional Balaclava Agricultural College. Out of print, something different. Worth looking for.
1977, #1 Professor Peter Shandy, Balaclava Agricultural College, New England; murder of an obnoxious woman at Christmastime involves a quiet academic in sleuthing and affection; her first adult novel, it's filled with all the right stuff for a lovely cosy village-type comedy/mystery, plus a bit more.
Ms. MacLeod obviously read those books and enjoyed them, but her creation of Balaclava College and Peter Shandy and friends is entirely her own.
If you enjoy a good cosy “village mystery” filled with peculiar characters, tidy plots, word play and a satisfying conclusion, you can't go wrong with any of Ms. MacLeod's four series; besides the Shandy stories she wrote (as MacLeod) the Sarah Kelling and Max series, Boston (#1 The Family Vault).
It's the night before Christmas as I write this review.The season is merry and I should be too.Yet despite best intentions and goodwill to all men, I couldn't bring myself to listen to this book again.The story is slow and the characters are bland. I don't care whodunnit or how they are found.Two hours of listening to lengthy discourse on marbles and murder and wrongly locked doors, with no tension and no action are more than enough. I'm setting it aside to read other stuff.
One of my favorite Christmas rereads, this is the first in the author's witty, charming, clever Professor Peter Shandy series set at a small agricultural college in rural Massachusetts.
2015 - Always a favorite reread, still holds up and makes me smile and laugh out loud in a few spots, fun!
I try and fit in a reread every year, light, snarky, quirky and charming - I've read and recently reread the entire series, but this is definitely my favorite book of the lot.2014 - One of my favorite Christmas rereads, I try and get to it every year - so much fun!
This is the first case for Professor Peter Shandy of Balaclava College, a small agricultural school in rural Massachusetts.
The local police didn't even qualify as a joke and I don't know if that's a product of the 1970s, small towns, or just bad research.
The mystery wasn't an easy solve, I had suspicions about certain people but couldn't tie them together with any kind of motive.
The ending was rushed, with an entire mystery solving trip totally untold.
The vocabulary was particularly appealing, it was nice to not know some words and not feel like the author was throwing them in to sound smart or because they like some strange word, but because people just had better vocabularies in the past.
This series looks like it will be a fun one to read.Peter Shandy is a professor at an agricultural college.
They area he lives in on the college grounds really goes all out for Christmas.
His trip doesn't go off as planned and he is forced to return home.
Upon his arrival back home he discovers the body of one of the other residents dead in his living room.
Peter doesn't believe it is an accident and decides to figure out what really happened.Great characters and a good story line.
Looking forward to reading the next in the series.
This is the first in Charlotte MacLeod's Professor Shandy mysteries. In it we are introduced to Professor Shandy and several of the recurring characters in this series. Although each mystery stands on its own, it does help to read this one first if you can so that you can get to know these characters. If you enjoy humor based on character portrayals, you will enjoy these mysteries.
Cute, whimsical mystery that honestly put me more in mind of Dorothy Sayers than Agatha Christie. I wanted to read a holiday book and it was a pretty good choice.
2.5- to 3.0 - Cozy mystery- ok read- slowly starting to get ready for Christmas! xx
Professor Peter Shandy would like nothing more than to spend to spend a quiet Christmas away from the small college town of Balaclava Junction.
Every holiday season this otherwise quiet neighborhood is transformed into a “Grand Illumination”, drawing tourists from far and wide, to see the beautiful Christmas displays in which each neighbor takes part; all except for Peter that is.
What initially drew me in when choosing a mystery to read was the setting (small college town during Christmas) and the cast of characters (librarians, professors etc.).
The first book in the Peter Shandy mysteries by Charlotte MacLeod, in a 10 book series.This was the audiobook edition narrated by John McLain.Peter Shandy, college botany professor, and librarian Helen Marsh Shandy solve murder mysteries in Balaclava County, Massachusetts.With the festive season in full swing at Balaclava College, professor Peter Shandy is not feeling in the festive spirit.
The campus security and the local police are quite willing to put it down as an accident, but Peter thinks it is murder, when he finds that one of his nieces marbles is missing.So it is left to Peter, with the help of Miss Helen Marsh to find a killer within the college campus.Charlotte MacLeod story telling is light, fun and totally enjoyable.
A cozy murder mystery set at a fictional agricultural college in New England in the 1970’s, during the Christmas season.
It felt a little odd that nobody is particularly shocked or upset at the murder of someone everybody has known for years, but then this wouldn’t be so cozy if the characters were seriously distressed.The romance is sweet, but as it’s a case of love at first sight with absolutely no conflict or impediment, it’s not terribly gripping.Not sure I liked this well enough to read the next in the series.
There is a mystery here, a quite interesting mystery but the real appeal to me is the quirky characters who inhabit Balaclava Agricultural College and the small communities of Balaclava Junction, Lumpkin Corners and environs.
A case in point: Peter Shandy, proffesor of agrology, in partnership with his friend professor Timothy Ames, is propagator of a world renowned and highly profitable rutabaga, the Balaclava Buster.
This has made both proffesors moderately wealthy and provides a steady source of funds to the college.
Rutabagas, turnips, pigs, a profitable Christmas Illumination, agricultural college, small towns and murder.
This zany 1978 murder mystery is the first of the Professor Peter Shandy series. Set at Balaclava Agricultural College during the Christmas season, Peter tries to play a joke on his neighbors with his over-the-top holiday decorations. The murder of a neighbor lady leads to a silly series of events with many eccentric characters to keep us amused but ends happily with Peter meeting his soulmate Helen who likes counting things as much as he does.
Much fun. Insta-love, ugh, but whatever. Balaclava Agricultural College is definitely a very interesting place. This series ought to be read in order. I'd read the second before I picked this up and it spoiled this one.
This one's an old favorite, the funniest Christmas mystery I've ever read.
I don't always like "quirky" cozy mysteries -- sometimes they seem to be trying so hard to be funny that you can't care about the poorly-developed (and/or TSTL) protagonists, and sometimes the author seems to have written a "light" story because they lack the skills for any more -- but Charlotte MacLeod is a fine and even erudite writer.
Although individual books in each are better or worse, there's not a one I regret having read.
(My mother, who also loved Ms. MacLeod, felt the Shandy story "Curse of the Giant Hogweed" was simply too nonsensical/zany for her, but it 
Perhaps it is with the knowledge that Charlotte MacLeod first drafted this as a short story, that I find the introduction weaker, detached from the astonishingly well-developed setting that unfolds.
There is a smorgasbord of characters to digest, which is fine if one is on board with the protagonist.
He overdoes Christmas decorations in revolt against obligation to adorn his private home.
With information and the arrival of ‘Helen Marsh’, who changed Peter’s personality at once; I metamorphosed into a fan.
Here is one of the world’s true writers, whose sentences compel you to stop and marvel at their construction.
Perfectly pleasant cozy-type mystery, which takes place in the ’70s and stars an old-fashioned professor at a small American agricultural college. I liked Professor Shandy’s quiet wit and general oddness, and MacLeod manages to deliver at least one deliciously creepy image. This was a rec from Wychwood, and I can see why she enjoys the series; if I stumbled across any of MacLeod’s other books at a library sale, I’d probably snatch them up. However, this wasn’t memorable enough that I’ll be actively and desperately seeking them out.
'tis not at all the season for this book, but I was in the mood for a mystery and had never tried MacLeod. Fortunately, the holiday touches are merely the set up for a couple of murders, set on a fictional college campus near Boston. It will definitely not be my last MacLeod - I thoroughly enjoyed pretty much everything about this. And I only kind of managed to figure out the parties involved in the offing.
I used to love this series so when the audiobook was on sale, I got it. It is full of outrageous people at a small agricultural college. I think I have worked too long in higher education because I found this all just plain silly. Plus the hero's love interest, a librarian was a little too demure and a little too perfect a love match.Higher education is ripe for biting satire, but this is not it.....
This is an annual re-read for me, and it was fun, as usual. I love the description of Peter's outside decorations, and the escape he makes immediately afterwards. I also love that he meets Helen March, librarian, through circumstances difficult to explain without plot giveaways; happily for me, the two are meant for each other :).
A straightforward murder mystery that doesn't make its reader think, but just enjoy it. An easy read that doesn't take much concentration to keep the characters straight, and it's cozy setting and late 70's time period makes for a nice, pleasant get away from the regular world for a few hours.3.5 stars, and recommended to anyone to likes/loves "cozy mysteries".
Very funny!
