https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359581.The_Courts_of_Chaos
While often the information involved in required, I wish there could be a better way to portray it, especially when it nears the end of the fifth book, when pretty much everything is about to be destroyed, and we take a time-out to hear another of Corwin's brother's political standpoints.Along with this, I feel that Zelazny goes on a bit too long wtih the hellrides.
As cool as the formatting is, Corwin hellrides too many times, especially in the fifth book, for me to want to spend three pages in a psychadelic trip through countless universes.That said, of course, I must reiterate that I really enjoy these books.
Corwin gets a quest and heads to Chaos, and leprechauns and The World Tree, a fitting ending to the first arc of the Amber series, enjoyed all 5 of the novels, onto the second arc now.
The final chapter in the original Amber series ties together all the story threads but leaves plenty of room for sequels. This book is probably the second best in the series (after the first one and perhaps tied with the second one) but won't be enjoyed as a stand-alone.
"Sometimes it's damned hard to tell the dancer from the dance."- Roger Zelazny, Coruts of ChaosSo, this isn't the bottom of the first five books in the 'Chronicles of Amber'.
Actually, of the five books that make up the Corwin cycle (Books 1-5), it might be my favorite (so 3.5 ✷?).
Sometimes, we feel like we actually influence things, and this gives rise to striving.
They began this foolish show when you entered the valley." Um, OK?Anyway, the things I just gently mocked above are also probably WHY I give this an extra 1/2 ✷.
I'm not going to strive to hard to explain.
In some ways, I enjoyed this one, the fifth in the Amber series, the most.
The momentum built, the suspense, the twists and turns, the revealing of character traits, truth from lies.
The way Zelazny tells this story is incredibly unique in the manner in which you learn the story, piece by piece, one more part of the puzzle.
He kept me interested the whole time, and wanting more.
He knows just when to give me more to keep me from getting frustrated and holding back just enough to keep my interest piqued.
Clever author, satisfying read.All in all, a wonderfully imaginative series every sci fi fan should read at least once.
Learning about Amber, the shadow worlds, and the family along with Corwin was a great tool to get the reader engaged.
Still intriguing, but the plot just dragged in this one.Sign of the Unicorn - This book was mostly backstory and you get some great insight on the different views of all the family members which helped to flesh out their motivations.
I did like Zelazny's choice for the King of Amber though!This series had it's up and downs, but at the end of the day it is a quality read.
Still it's an interesting change of pace from the relentless plot twists in The Hand of Oberon.The ending is an anti-climatic, but fitting conclusion to the series, although there are some unanswered questions (presumably to set the stage for the Merlin cycle of novels), and certain things happen to Random that don't make a great deal of sense (If you've read it, you'll know what I mean).I'm being picky though.
The series as a whole is nothing short of excellent, and Zelazny's playful-but-not-hokey writing style just make the novels fun to read.
wonderful.the battle, the journey and the sadness of passing.this would seem the natural end of the series, i'm glad it isn't.
Остання частина першого підциклу нагадала мені про кінець "Гаррі Поттера".
Менше з тим.Рефлексії Корвіна цього разу справді набувають небачених масштабів, але читати їх досить цікаво, якщо ви не квапитеся поринути в динаміку і дізнатися нарешті фінал.
Найбільше мені сподобалися філософські бесіди із Гуґо — які скінчилися досить неприємно для останнього.Побачили ми і Мерліна — сина Корвіна та героя наступного п'ятикнижжя.
А Корвін нарешті зможе помандрувати світом і знайти себе — гідний кінець для протагоніста, хоча, можливо, й не той, на який очікує читач.Що ж, чекаю на "Козирі долі" та нових персонажів.
It is a little bit artificial, but on the other hand it is good that he doesn't appear in a flash in the next book.The narrative is slower than the previous books, lots of psychedelic descriptions of Shadow voyage - it reminds me of the first travel of Corwin with Random in his car towards Amber.And it is full of interesting self reflection and philosophical discussions.Concerning action, I really liked the hilarious drunken dwarf party.
Because Zelazny's strengths of inner monologue, philosophical discussions (like the discussions with Hugi about Absolute and desire), psychedelic travels and strange random encounters (like the drunken dwarves) and divings into mythology with Yggdrasil and Hugin are emphasized.
"...the Courts of Chaos, a grossly non-Euclidean realm..."A satisfying and touching finish, despite its uneven start.
And Zelazny's epic must have provided things that became the basis for many of the principles at work in Roland Deschain's universe.I especially enjoyed the minor confrontation with the cannibalistic little people, which seemed deliberately borrowed - and twisted - from Swift.
The July edition of the New York Review of Science Fiction has an amazing essay that examines all of the brief, cryptic references and allusions.
This bit of fantasy is more than just a minor sword and sorcery tale crossed with some science fiction.
This opens with Random demanding that Corwin open the door -- he brought food -- because Corwin is reacting badly to the revelation at the end of Hand, namely that (view spoiler)[Ganelon was really Oberon in disguise. (hide spoiler)]More revelations ensue. Who is designated Oberon's heir. What Dara was up to, and who was the warrior who spared Corwin in the Courts of Chaos. What they are going to do about the black road. And the grand conclusion to this series.
I have finished the Corwin arc and along the way I had the feeling that this must be what someone experiences on LSD but in written form:) I've found the story compelling, juvenile, incomplete and strange all around but I have enjoyed it nonetheless.
მოულოდნელად ძალიანაც კარგი აღმოჩნდა კორვინის ციკლის ბოლო წიგნი! უბრალოდ, ბოლოსკენ წმინდა ფენტეზიში გადავარდა, თავისი ემოციური კონიუნქტურითა და პათეტიკით, თორემ ხუთიანსაც კი დაიმსახურებდა
A fantastic end to a the Corwin Cycle of the Amber books.
The characters have deepened amazingly & so much is tied up, yet there is plenty of room for expansion.
I'm so sorry he never got to fill it in better.The first 5 books AKA The Corwin Cycle are followed by 5 books in the Merlin Cycle & then Betancourt wrote a prelude; a trilogy & the first book of a duology.
Unfortunately, the publisher folded after the first of the duology (4th of the Oberon Cycle) & it is doubtful if the last book will ever be published.
you can always count on Zelazny to deliver
It feels as if there ought to be an explanation, but there’s a narrative power in all of that getting subsumed by chaos – both the named chaos of the adversaries and the implicit chaos of a story that edges along the boundary of no longer making sense.It’s a strange quest and an even stranger narrating of it, but there’s a combination of philosophy, play of language, and fringing away from the conventions of genre that make it spectacular.
I recall those as being pretty good, though not as good as the original Amber.Having revisited here, I can’t quite claim this work stands as the very best that the fantasy genre has to offer, but it’s not far behind.
Amber is the true, real, center of the universe, see, and it's a magical kingdom where the king has gone missing and the nine princes and a handful of princesses are playing the game of thrones, and...
There was a second series of five books with the same setting and some overlapping characters that didn't have quite the same feel, and after his death someone else produced some books that shouldn't have been permitted that I would recommend avoiding, but those first five Amber books are real classics.
I enjoyed the story, the concepts, and the fast-paced of these books.
I give the whole series (the Corwin Cycle) four stars.
My main complaint is that there are these nine brothers who are all pretty much indistinguishable as characters.
Unless you memorize their names and "colors" early on, there is not much to tell one from the other.
(Even when an entire chapter is told from Random's POV, it sounds no different from Corwin.) So it took me until about midway through the fourth book before I really started to remember which brother is which.
My imaginings of this story are colorful and detailed.
But right now, after finishing Corwin’s cycle, I don’t feel like go farther for the time being.
Nothing about this series felt like twenty years ago when I’d first read it.
Then it was like true magic, something that didn’t let me go for a long while.
But not this time.
I’m getting old I guess because very little of that twenty years old magic worked with me these day while I was rereading it.
Don’t get me wrong - this is quite a decent series.
I just wish it remained magical for me.
Том втори от „Хрониките на Амбър” съдържа поредните четири романа (части от 4 до 7) от многотомната фентъзи сага на доайена Роджър Зелазни. Легендарната поредица е задължителна за феновете на жанра и съвсем с право е включена в колекцията на издателство „Бард” „Велики майстори на фентъзи и фантастика”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
კარგი სერია იყო, უნდა ახლავე გავაგრძელო-მეთქი ვერ ვიტყვი, მაგრამ ალბათ შემდეგსაც წავიკითხავ ოდესმეფიონა <3
As the end of a five book story arc I was hoping there to be much more pace in this novel so that it might attain some of the brilliance of the first book in the series.
It did not stand on the strength of the story that had gone before it but instead on the strength of that particular moment which meant the only thing about the entire series that was actually relevant other than driving them too that final battle ground was the final act itself.
Oberon, the king, and father of the narrator, Corwin, and his siblings, plans to repair the damaged pattern on which Amber and the universe of parallel worlds is based, aware that he is likely to die in the process.
And Brand is doing his best to attack Corwin and get the Jewel.As ever, it's an interesting read and if the prospect of yet another Hellride through a changing landscape is rather déjà vu, this one has some elements from northern myth, with a form of Yggdrasil, the world tree, and a bird inspired by the god Odin's raven Hunin (Thought) who has a philosophical bent of a rather nihilistic nature.
On the merits of this final book alone, I'm tempted to rate it three stars; but I cannot avoid putting it in the context of the greater story coming to an end.The Amber series has been an odd beast.
It's simultaneously slow-paced and kind of rambling, but each entry in the series built up a really epic and engaging story.The characters are all interesting, and the characterization shines—from Corwin himself, to Brand, Benedict, Oberon; they all have their unique voices and personalities.
I'll miss my time in Amber, and I'll miss Corwin's voice.
Corwin and his family are faced with the end of the world, and the only way to stop it is to fix the Pattern.Not as much intrigue or fighting as previous books.
An adequate ending to the Corwin cycle.I'll probably comment on this again at the end of the Merlin cycle (in 5 more books), but as of right now I probably won't recommend this series to anyone.
I won't stop them if they're interested, but it doesn't get my recommendation.Rating: PG or a light PG-13, for some action violence, mild language, and mild sensuality.***SPOILERY THOUGHTS***(view spoiler)[It was an interesting reveal at the end of book 4 that Ganelon was actually Oberon in disguise.
Dun dun dunnnnnThe Courts of Chaos was a fast paced, but information dense novel that very neatly and satisfactorally wrapped up the first half of the Chronicles of Amber.
Battles that don't go on needlessly - even epic duels between siblings or, in the case of this book, between Corwin and a master swordsman bent on killing him, do not drag on for pages, describing every parry and thrust, every grunt and scrape and thought.
And there's no BS about them - characters don't give big speeches and delay the inevitable, they just end the fight like a real person would.
My main gripe was that, for the first time since Nine Princes in Amber, Zelazny used (or over-used) his brief snippets of world after world to give you the feeling that a lot of changes were going on as Corwin traveled between shadow versions of Amber.
Zelazny is a good writer, but I think he got a little carried away in trying to be at the forefront of the new wave of sci-fi in the 60s-70s.
But I think Zelazny went too far in the other direction; being different isn't more important than good writing.
I'm not sure why these books were ever once considered good.
Essentially, this series drifts from scene to scene, in a more and more disjointed way as the series progresses (random 'hellrides' with pages of surrealist drivel to random shadows (alternate worlds) that don't hold any special meaning, making their purpose ultimately useless).
None of the characters are compelling to read about, and they never gain any real depth -- this despite a slightly intriguing first book, the series never delivered.
It was, in short, random.No wonder the character named Random was made king in the end.Not recommended.
-Remate a la primera serie relacionada con Ámbar.- Género.
Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta.
Corwin está bastante furioso por los recientes acontecimientos y los cambios que han causado, además de sentirse engañado y por tanto dolido en su amor propio.
Y las instrucciones de prepararse para una guerra en tan poco tiempo le preocupan, pero no todos sus hermanos comparten sus pensamientos ya que hay que enfrentarse a la gran amenaza.
Quinto y último libro de la serie Crónicas de Ambar.
Hay otros cinco libros de una serie protagonizada por el hijo de Corwin, y tengo entendido que hay por ahí una precuela.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
