https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104216.Peachtree_Road
Oh my gosh y'all, I am so sorry to everyone who has ever tried to get me to read this author, but I can't, I just can't.
This is my second attempt, I tried to read Low Country about 10 years ago and it just did me in with the verbal diarrhea.
Still, people whose literary opinions I like and tend to agree kept telling me how great she is and how I should really read her novels.
I am not above liking some florid descriptions of cities and homes and people, but good gravy, there's a time when you have to stop beating the reader over the head with your $.50 adjectives and get on with the story.
It describes what people tend to refer to as the "old money" in Atlanta, although Shep, the main character, is quick to note that no money in Atlanta is truly "old".When evaluating a book I like to think about what my biggest take away is...
(Suddenly, things my mother has told me about growing up in Charleston, SC in the 1950s feel more relevant when I find myself transported to that time and place.) She also does a great job at showing how Buckhead was transformed from a bucolic paradise to a hustling skyscraper city over the last 50 years.
Admittedly, the first 75 pages of this book sound a bit like listening to an old lady prattle on about the times back in her day...
At certain times it’s almost too much: too much description, too much tragedy, too many characters and themes, too many pages left towards the inevitable conclusion that you only begin to accept around the same time Shep Bondurant does.
That having been said, at least one part could have been cut out cleanly due to the impact it should have had but didn’t.My final verdict is this: I will read this book many times in the coming years, and learn something new from it each time, until it has been absorbed into my brain in all its Southern glory and tragedy and abundant summer.
My review may seem like a complaint, but Peachtree Road is as vivid, alive and deliciously exhausting as Lucy Bondurant herself.
This book was horribly disappointing, mostly because I thought it was going to be wonderful.
The plot was interesting at times, but the book was just too long, too drawn out; the last 200 hundred pages were not much more than painful.
And unfortunately, by the end of the story I found myself hating (and despising in some cases) every single one of the characters.
You end up reading not to see what happens, but how it happens.
Overall, though some parts were truly fascinating, I cannot say I reccomend the book.
A must-read for Atlantans. I read it after I had moved here and it got me interested in Atlanta's rich and colorful history. Everytime I drive Peachtree Road in Buckhead I glance over at the last mansion and think about this great book.
The first time I picked up this book, I put it down after about 20 pages because I just couldn't get into it. Some months later, I picked it up again, started reading it and was so sucked into the story that I was sad to see the book end. I absolutely loved this book.
Siddons telling of Shep Bondurant's childhood is so nostalgic and evocative; I just love the first 200 pages of this book.So it isn't really like Gone With the Wind at all, except in the broadest sense that the world the main characters loved so well has disappeared.
At the beginning of the book, the reader has no idea who Lucy is; you know nothing about her, so the fact that she is being buried is immaterial.
You have to read the book, find out who Lucy was, and what her life was like.
Without judgment or condescension, and more in the vein of an objective matter of course, the reader is gifted with the voice of Shep Bondurant as he lays the backdrop of his riveting life shaping story, a story so scathingly unusual as to psychologically scar, yet somehow the reader understands the crumbs offered along the way of this cause and effect, sins of the father story.In the opulence of aristocratic, pre-civil rights Atlanta, when the city was but a Southern town divided by race and class, partitioned into those who live in mansions and those who serve within, Shep Bondurant is an only child rattling around his family mansion on Peachtree Road.
I loved the main characters of Shep and Lucy from the first, and their glittering world of privilege—Shep’s without lifting a finger, and Lucy’s only through sheer determination.
I loved the main supporting characters of Sarah, Charlie, Ben, Jack, Little Lady and even Jack’s forbidding parents and Lucy’s social climbing trash mother.
Having read the entire book, I was able to go back and make sense of it all to see the heavy foreshadowing present within it, but in retrospect I should have skipped right to chapter one and not tried to make sense of it until later.
Writing this long after reading the book. I mainly recall it being too wordy. The plot was interesting, but it was a challenge to get through this book and quite depressing at times.
Otherwise that model (2 door, hardtop coupe) would be beige and gold.To be 16 and get a Plymouth Belvedere Fury, the EARLIEST a person could be born is 1940.If Shep was born in 40, Lucy would be born in 42, and therefore Lucy could never have heard the original broadcast about Pearl Harbor, the kids wouldn't even meet until some time in 1947, when WWII was already officially over.My guess is the author just wanted a cool, iconic 50's car for Shep to use in high school, and never bothered to think that the cars available at the start of the decade (Jan, 1950) would not necessarily be the same as those available by the the decade's end (Dec, 1959).The whole timeline is confusing and full of historical and pop cultural inaccuracies.
Very interesting book about several generations of Atlanta Aristocracy and populated with some Dickensian characters. Many an unexpected plot twist abounds!
This book is largely set in Buckhead, where I used to live (1948-1956) and went to school (North Fulton HS 1948-1950).
254 is the emotional high point (so far) of the book: Sarah says to Shep as she is boarding the plane from NY (where she had been visiting him) to Atlanta: Don’t come home.
278, she refers to Army Rangers as “murderous peers.” The narrator’s mother is killed on a plane crash with a group of members of the Atlanta Art Association (p.397), who were touring the art galleries and museums of Europe.
Yes, I have to agree with The Baltimore Sun's report that Peachtree Road was a love story, a historical novel, a mystery, and a tragedy all wrapped into one.
The love/hate relationship which existed between the two main characters, Shep and Lucy, can be compared to a plot found in a Shakespearean tragedy, because in the end they not only destroy themselves but almost everyone else who knew them.
The love/hate relationship between these main characters begins when the book opens as spunky, little Lucy makes her grand entrance into the Bondurant household.
Yes, Shep was caught under that old Black Magic called, Love.
Some books are just banquets. This is one of them.
Told (not entirely successfully) from a male point of view, Sheppard Gibbs Bondurant, aka Gibby, recounts his relationship with his cousin Lucy.
Lucy came to live in Atlanta with her mother and baby brother when she was 5 and Gibby was 7; even then Lucy was haunted by nightmares and was a demanding and clinging child.
They grew up in Atlanta society through the 50's and 60's Shep graduated from Princeton and got a job in New York City, vowing he would never return to live in Atlanta in spite of his mother's pleading.
I wanted to shake Shep sometimes for not just saying no to Lucy.
Growing up in Atlanta off of Peachtree Road, a daughter of the book's generation of Southerners, I found this book compelling reading. Again and again it triggered stories about my grandfather. Although he came from the wrong side of the tracks and far too poor to be one of the "Buckhead boys" of the book, he pulled himself up by "his own bootstraps" to join the ranks of the powerful city aristocracy, especially in the political arena. The book helped me understand my own heritage in new ways, especially the cultural dimensions of Atlanta white women.
I reserve 5 stars only for my absolute all-time favorites, so 4 stars is still pretty great. This is nuanced classic southern literature, a la Pat Conroy and it both troubled and captivated me. It felt unusual that Rivers' narrator was male, and perhaps why the book is so compelling. It delves deep into his psyche and pulls things out that are unfamiliar though a females voice and downright unexpected by a man. I really appreciate what this book brought to the table.
Delicious, but disturbing. I've been sitting here trying to come up with something that would do this novel justice, and honestly, I think that's about right. What else can you say about a book that shocks the hell out of you many times (and not always --or ever-- in a good way) but you devour it?
one of my alltime favorite books; written from the point of view of a man (unusual for this author), Shep, growing up in Buckhead in the 50's and 60's - follows his life and the life of his cousin, Lucy - really interesting since I live in Atlanta - one of my favorite authors and this is my favorite books of hers
This is one I plan to read again. It's another of those grand southerns stories in the tradition of Pat Conroy or even Margaret Mitchell. The backdrop is beautiful and the story interesting (and just scandalous enough to be fun...but not to much!) It definitely reinforces the stereotype that those genteel southerners have a lot of skeletons in the closet.My favorite of her books.
I have been a big fan of Siddons for many years. Peachtree Road is the first book of hers that I read, and I absolutely loved it. Maybe it's because most of her stories center around the Atlanta area and I love Atlanta. Who knows? Peachtree Road is a GREAT read!
I love this author, but this was the first book of her's that I could not finish. The main character's long trains of thought and observations were so mind-numbingly dull and tedious that I had to put the book down. A big disappointment from an otherwise great author.
This was her best novel, in my opinion. Richly drawn characters, and a setting that not only impacts, but drives the plot. It makes me want to visit Atlanta and see the homes, but I have a feeling they've probably all been razed to build office buildings by now!
Best first line I've ever read--"The south started killing Lucy Bondurant the day she was born. It does that to all it's women>"
A Southern novel in the vein of Pat Conroy. It was full of secrets - I liked it.
Haunting tale of first cousins Shep Bondurant and Lucy Bondurant Venable told against the backdrop of coming-of-age Atlanta. Excellent read.
I couldn't stop reading this book. I stayed up until 4:30 in the morning to finish it. It's great! Heart-wrenching but great!
Yes, her childhood was filled with neglect, and Lucy was “different” from the other girls, but I just reached a point where I stopped caring and basically just wanted Shep to ditch her once and for all.
The end of the book is just a description of Lucy once again destroying her life and the lives of the people around her..
I understand she was meant to be the focus of the book, but at one point it just really dragged out and I just wanted it to end.
Told from the narrator, Shephard Bondurant, he told the story about the arrival of his cousin Lucy and the life they lived on Peachtree Road with his aunt and two other cousins all in one roof.
Throughout the years, these two cousins were inseparable as siblings, he told how Lucy came into their lives and how she became a hellion in such a young life.
After when she had a clean slate with some happiness as Malory grew up and found love of her own, Shep told how Lucy snapped until he couldn;t deal with her anymore, until her own death happened to bring it full circle to how the story started.
