https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32263.The_Surgeon
I'm assuming it's unused because how would a bunch of men get a used tampon, let alone shove it into a bottle of mineral water, but how could a clean tampon be considered disgusting unless you hate women and/or female bodies?3.
Also nice is how this character (angry, possibly man-hating, woman) is saying that all women blame themselves for being raped.
This is a mediocre book about a terrible subject made worse by clumsy writing about rape, VICTIMS (not, let's be clear, survivors), and being female in a male world.
The Surgeon is a brilliantly written medical thriller, that will have you gripped and terrified from page one until you finish the novel.
He attacked women who were victims.
The Surgeon had been attracted to their pain.The story begins with a successful physician named Catherine Cordell who was nearly murdered a few years back in Savannah but lived to tell the tale because she blew her attacker away before he could finish the job.
With her attacker's death, the string of grotesque torture-murders ends in Savannah, but then resurfaces in Boston.
Jane Rizzoli is so much different than the TV show.
I am a fan of the TV show so I decided to start with book #1.
I was not disappointed in the book, but it was a bit of a shock to see Rizzoli as a homely, outsider fighting for her what was due her.
The focus upon the impact on the lives of victims was fleshed out more than in any other crime novel that I have read.
All in all, this makes a nice read and opens up the series to many diverse paths.
The details of the crime are identical to that of another young woman he investigated a year ago.
Those looking to see Jane Rizzoli & Maura Isles featured at the forefront will need to wait until the next book.
The author decided to explore the Rizzoli character after this story and Isles doesn’t make an appearance here.
This was a graphic story so be prepared for that, not only the murders but the ER trauma procedures.
I disliked Jane Rizzoli in this story, a lot, but she is someone I want to learn more about and maybe will redeem herself.
The readers of The Surgeon will follow the twist and turns of Detective Thomas Moore and Detective Jan Rizzoli investigation into the murders.Tess Gerritsen has provided the readers of The Surgeon a new strong women detective Jane Rizzoli.
I like the way Tess Gerritsen describes the problems women have in law enforcements.
I also enjoy the way, Tess Gerritsen describes the interaction between Detective Thomas Moore and Detective Jan Rizzoli.
Also, Readers of The Surgeon will learn about the law enforcement procedures.
Readers of The Surgeon will learn about hospital procedures and what is involved to be a surgeon.I recommend this book.
The story begins with a successful physician named Catherine Cordell who was nearly murdered a few years back in Savannah but lived to tell the tale because she blew her attacker away before he could finish the job.
With her attacker's death, the string of grotesque torture-murders ends in Savannah, but then resurfaces in Boston.
The new murderer, nicknamed "The Surgeon", moves through Boston like air carrying out his sick fantasies that are identical to the string of murders in Savannah.
Follow Gerritsen as she masterfully leads her characters (who are real and well-developed) to solving the puzzle of the Surgeon, a terrifying tale like none you've ever read before.
“Hell, no one ever knows who the monsters are.” Detective Thomas Moore was heading to Maine on his vacation when he is called back to Boston.
Thomas Moore and Jane Rizzoli are to work together on this case and she is not happy.
without help from her male partners.The two cases that force Moore and Rizzoli to work together involve attacks on women.
As the investigation intensifies Moore and Rizzoli learn of a similar crime spree in Savannah two years ago.
The killer in Boston seems to be recreating the crimes that took place in Savannah with chilling accuracy.
(view spoiler)[ When a detective puts her own selfish, low self-esteemed feelings before a freaking rape victim, I'm kind of done with the said character.
(hide spoiler)]If the point of her behaviour has been to make her seem flawed but likeable and someone a reader would root for, I'm afraid she only gets the flawed part well.
(view spoiler)[ I was really annoyed when after all her crap she got rewarded by a clue in the end.My biggest issue with her was this: 'But when you were a woman and better than anyone else and you had the nerve to let them know it,..' - not once in the book I got the impression she is better than anyone else as she thinks.
(hide spoiler)]Moore, the other detective, is more likeable.
Heart stopping read that kept me on the edge of my seat, biting my nails while reading as fast as I could turn the pages. Intense suspense at its best!
Maura Isles is not in this story and Rizzoli is no Angie Harmon, (and probably one of the most dislikable heroines I’ve ever read- more on that later) If you’re at all sensitive to blood and vivid medical details (or rape) then this probably won’t work for you either as the surgical element here is graphic, bordering on overdeveloped –it’s pretty obvious that author Tess Gerritsen is a physician.
The precision of the killer’s methods suggests a medical background and the media dub him “the surgeon”.Investigating the murders are detectives Thomas Moore and his partner Jane Rizzoli -described as homely, self-loathing, jealous (and just downright bitchy) Through their investigation the police soon discover almost identical killings several years back in Georgia.
Tess Gerritsen Fans Group Link - **my 2nd read** The first book in series. Tess has medical school education at University of California. With that she writes with "extensive Medical terminology" easily understood. Her knowledge of Boston is nice.Boston Homicide Unit's Jane Rizzoli & Thomas Moore lead a murder investigation in the South End with Elena Ortiz(22) raped, tied with duct tape, "catgut" stitches & a missing Uterus (female organ). They find Diana Sterling(30) was murdered last
Her knowledge of Boston is nice.Boston Homicide Unit's Jane Rizzoli & Thomas Moore lead a murder investigation in the South End with Elena Ortiz(22) raped, tied with duct tape, "catgut" stitches & a missing Uterus (female organ).
Took 1 year off, being afraid, now works at Boston's Pilgrim Medical Center/Hospital.Catherine's internet username is CCORD & tells Det. Moore of a car's license plate "POSEY FIVE".
Then you will need to figure out the link between the dead Dr. Capra & "The Surgeon from Chicago to Boston?FYI only - this is the first book in the "Rizzoli & Isles" series - Det. Thomas Moore is Det. Jane Rizzoli's partner not Dr. Mauri Isles.
I had never read such an amazing story like this in my whole life.
While reading, I had the feeling that someone was watching me, like...
There's a moment when they induce hypnosis in the main victim, Catherine Cordell, so she can remember things from the crime scene, which is also minutely described.
It's been carried with me forever, I don't know why, but I always remember this part.
I didn't even imagine who the killer would be, where he'd live, how would he act under certain circumstances of the story.Tess is one of the best and I am so honored to have the opportunity of reading her books.
Picked this one up on a whim and WOW did I enjoy it.
I'd never read a Tess Gerritsen book before and I was hooked!!
I can absolutely see why a TV show was made from her books - THE SURGEON reads like it's made for the screen.
This book was fast-paced, totally addictive, and also totally chilling.
It's a cop-vs-serial killer story with a twist: Gerritsen applies her own background in medicine to add a whole extra dimension to her crime novel.
I loved the hospital setting, the medical details, and the creepy serial killer "The Surgeon." This is really just fast-paced entertainment!
If you're just coming into the Rizzoli and Isles books, be aware that these are very different from the AMC series. Dark, gruesome, and complicated, the series follows the strong Detective Jane Rizzoli through several fascinating cases. (Maura Isles plays a bigger role in the later books, though I'm not as big a fan of those that focus on her.) The writing is excellent, the stories are mostly consistently good, and they're terrific thrillers for fans of Chelsea Cain or Karin Slaughter.
review and rating to be revealed soon
This one grabbed me from the first chapter and kept the pages flying. Not since "The Silence of the Lambs" have I felt so compelled to finish a book. This one creeped me out! I found myself hearing noises in my house late at night.
2018 Subjects Specific Reading ChallengeI have 30 books with specific subjects that I need to read Book 26:A book recommended by a friendMy sister recommended the TV series to me, but on discovering it was based on books...
how could I resist to read them first?Mixed FeelingsFirst Sentence: Today they will find her body.I have some mixed feeling about this one.
I love the story and the medical crime side of it, but I have some issues with the writing.
At stages it felt dragged and I just put it down, and other times I could not put it down, I guess the pacing was a bit off for me.I gonna try the next book and then make my decision.
I've been wanting to start reading this series for a while, and I was very lucky to find this book at a book swap library thing at the Botanic Gardens (I can't remember exactly what it's called, but basically you can take a book when you put a book there, or return the book you took...now I am confusing myself...).
I have watched a couple of episodes of the TV show and I must admit while I liked the way the tv show portrayed Rizzoli, I think I preferred her in the book.
Gerritsen is a great writer and I look forward to reading the next one.
Trigger warnings: rape, mutilation, medical details (both descriptions of stuff like cancer and descriptions of accidents/operations).That had to come first, because I spent much of this book wishing I had something firm and indestructible to crawl into, to keep me safe.
It's not actually a bad crime/mystery book: it's very good in that sense, and I'd recommend it to people who like, for example, Val McDermid.
But it was just not the kind of thing I should be reading at all, and I'm going to steer clear.
Now, I don’t want to sound anti-feminist or something with me saying all this stuff, but I felt the book was a bit radical with some of it’s points about men being raping, murdering bastards.
Genoten van dit boek! Van begin tot eind spannend.
Serinin ilk kitabı biter. Dizisini çok severek izliyordum. Favorim dizideki Rizolli ve İsles 😅😂
Der erste Fall für Rizzoli (Isles kommt noch nicht vor) und der hat es in sich.
Den Fall fand ich sehr spannend, auch wenn das Büchlein mittlerweile fast 15 Jahre alt ist und die Thriller heute anders geschrieben werden (meistens noch brutaler und blutiger).
Ungünstig war allerdings, dass ich die Serie Rizzoli & Isles vor Jahren gerne geschaut habe und mit gewissen Vorstellungen an das Buch heran gegangen bin, die es aber nicht halten konnte.
Denn so war mir Rizzoli, die zunächst lediglich eine Randfigur der Ermittlungen ist, leider nicht sehr sympathisch und ich konnte außerdem nicht alle ihre Entscheidungen (und Gedanken) nachvollziehen.
I'm always hesitant to read crime thrillers because I usually end up losing interest and putting them down but this book was just wow!
I like crime thrillers to be dark, disturbing, gruesome, creepy and well-written and this book ticked all of those boxes.
I am really really impressed and I would love to read more books like this!
It's obvious that Tess Gerritsen put a lot of work into weaving this story but she makes it flow very nicely.
One thing I really liked about this story was that I didn't guess the killer.
I will definitely be reading more from Tess Gerritsen as I'm really impressed.
I kind of had mixed feelings about this book for much of the story.
I can understand that, but she seemed to have a chip on her shoulder, so she's hard to like, especially when she's around people who don't deserve her scorn.It seems like her feelings sometimes cause her to make mistake which were pretty serious, and she uses her feelings of being female as an excuse.I look forward to reading the next book in the series to see if things change at all after this episode, which ended on a high note.
Ohne Schlaf hätte ich es am Stück gelesen. Das Ende war bisschen schnell aber trotzdem top.
This is marked as the first book in the Rizzoli & Isles series but, unless I totally missed her, the Isles half of the duo is missing.
He's now terrorizing a woman who was a victim of an eerily similar attack two years ago.
Rizzoli gets assigned the case but she has to work in tandem with Detective Moore, who was totally bland as a character.
His romantic subplot with the terrorized victim was tepid at best and felt vaguely inappropriate.
Despite my lack of enthusiasm for this book, I will give the second one a try, mostly because I think Moore will be gone and Isles will finally show up.
The crimes are pretty gruesome so if you are any way squeamish at all, I would give this a miss.I’m glad I did finish it because I felt it picked up a lot towards the end, hence my three stars, I didn't hate it and didn't love it but there was obviously enough in this first book to make me finish it and to make me want to read the second book in the series at some stage.
Overall, this is a good murder mystery but I hope the rest of the series improves on this one.
Three years previously Catherine Cordell, an emergency trauma surgeon survived a viscous rape and attack by a depraved junior doctor who had raped, butchered and killed three other young women in Savanna.
Living now in Boston, Catherine is slowly regaining her confidence and starting to feel safe when the police call to inform her that a similar series of murders have been occurring in Boston.
The writing is excellent with the medical and surgical scenes realistically described and the torture scenes almost too real.
An excellent start to this series!
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
