https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23209971-girl-at-war
"It's terrible what happened there," people would say when I let slip my home country and explained that it was the one next to Bosnia.
it is about a ten-year-old croatian girl's coming of age in zagreb, in the midst of civil war.
They asked because they hadn't smelled the air raid smoke or the scent of singed flesh on their own balconies; they couldn't fathom that such a dangerous place could still harbor all the feelings of home.the way she finds herself softening the blows, pulling the punches of the details of her memories when speaking of them to americans is heartbreaking.
“Their musings about how and why people stayed in a country under such terrible conditions were what I hated most. I knew it was ignorance, not insight that prompted these questions. They asked because they hadn't smelled the air raid smoke or the scent of singed flesh on their own balconies; they couldn't fathom that such a dangerous place could still harbor all the feelings of home.”  This book gave me chills. I noted many similarities between the main character and me. My name is also Ana.
“Their musings about how and why people stayed in a country under such terrible conditions were what I hated most.
They asked because they hadn't smelled the air raid smoke or the scent of singed flesh on their own balconies; they couldn't fathom that such a dangerous place could still harbor all the feelings of home.”  This book gave me chills.
Can a young child understand war?
No. Children, in all their innocence, can't understand the meaning of the term 'evil.' I do remember the sounds of air raid sirens.
My family managed to survive the war unscathed.
There's always hate just as there's always ignorance.
‘’Of course we want to go back. Of course we’re going home.’’ Home...Where is this ‘’home’’ when the land where you’ve spent all your life is about to witness violence, desolation, and death? Where is this ‘’home’’ when the people you’ve known as neighbours and friends are now considered enemies? Where is this ‘’home’’ when your loved ones are lost? When the guilt of surviving the nightmare still haunts your dreams? Home can only be found once you’ve made your peace with a terrifying past and A
Home can only be found once you’ve made your peace with a terrifying past and Ana begins her journey through an ordeal that no living human being should ever experience again...The ordeal of war and exile.
Ana, a young girl from Zagreb, finds her life torn as the war in the Balkan region starts in 1990.
Ten years later, following the tragic results of a ferocious war, Ana returns to beautiful Croatia to lay the ghosts to rest, to find beloved faces from the past, to discover some form of peace, however fragile.
"The war in Zagreb began over a pack of cigarettes." 'Serbian or Croatian?' asked the grumpy kiosk clerk, and the world of ten-year-old Ana Juric in the Zagreb summer of 1991 changed forever. From the slogans and air raids and simple childhood war games imitating the ever-worsening, ever more atrocious war in the Balkans - "War quickly became our favorite game and soon we had given up the park altogether" - to the life-shattering moment in the roadside wood (the horror of the chapter title "The
From the slogans and air raids and simple childhood war games imitating the ever-worsening, ever more atrocious war in the Balkans - "War quickly became our favorite game and soon we had given up the park altogether" - to the life-shattering moment in the roadside wood (the horror of the chapter title "They Both Fell" when the actual meaning sinks in) to the child soldier mutely assembling an automatic rifle (“Forward grip, gas chamber, cleaning rod, bolt, frame, magazine, function check") to the field in which you need to shoot first before you are slaughtered.
Girl at War tells the story of Ana Jurić, who when the story begins is 10 years old, without a care in the world, running around the streets of Zagreb, the capital of Croatia.
One of the most shocking things I've read in a book lately changes Anna's life forever.
While listening, perhaps I got relaxed with the book in the beginning, and then when that fateful day approaches, it completely took me by surprise.
The story goes back and forth in time to tell Anna's story.
One that I'm finally glad I read/listened to.The audio was an issue for me.
3.5 Ana is ten years old and living in Zagreb, Croatia's capitol city with her mother, father and very ill baby sister, when war breaks out.
Seeing it as the only way to save her daughter, the family makes a journey that will change Ana and her family's lives in a horrific way and plunge Ana right into the middle of the war.This novel goes back and forth in time, Croatia and America, ten years later when Ana is now a college student.
Her young adult's self trying to come to terms with what she experienced during her short time involved in the war is both horrific and terrifying.
5.0 (brilliant shooting) STARS!Updated November 27, 2015. I saw this photo attached to a recent article about the Syrian conflict. It reflects exactly my feelings and emotions about the Croatian girl in this story![image error]Oh how I loved this book :)  “Damir taught me how to fieldstrip and reassemble an AK. Forward grip, gas chamber, cleaning rod, bolt (piston first), frame, magazine. “Function check!” It meant to cock the gun as a test, but anyone completing the check yelled it triumphantly
The terror attack on NYC collapsed her carefully constructed emotional walls just like the towers and deep down inside she knew she had to go back to Croatia, to her old apartment building in Zagreb, to the Safe House and the forest where it all began for her, to confirm that Luka was still alive, to come to terms with her tumultuous past.What an extraordinarily powerful story!
Ana Juric, a regular kid growing up in Zagreb, Croatia is forced to face the horrors of civil war and the savagery of ethnic cleansing.
This pitch-perfect debut novel is an inside look at the Yugoslavian Civil War and its aftermath, from the perspective of a young girl caught up in the fighting. The careful structure is what keeps it from becoming just another ordinary, chronological war story. The recreation of a child’s perspective on the horrors of war is stunning. In fact, I can barely think of a negative thing to say about this concise novel. It strikes a perfect balance between past and present, tragic and hopeful.(Non-subscribers can read an excerpt of my full review at BookBrowse.)
Many years ago me and a friend hitchhiked through the whole of Yugoslavia, from Ljubljana all the way down the coast though Split and Dubrovnik – what a beautiful road it was, with the grand mountains on the left and the sudden chasmic drop on the right down to the fishing villages at the edge of the Adriatic, and the islands out in the sea.
Girl at War puts us right in the middle, through the eyes of ten year old Ana Jurić.
Which leaves this reader frustrated, and ordering some heavyweight history books immediately.
Even the exact premise of this book – protagonist experiences conflict in her home country as a girl, immigrates to the U.S., and later returns with an adult’s perspective – is hardly unique; for that I recommend Nayomi Munaweera’s Island of a Thousand Mirrors, or for a non-fictional version, Zainab Salbi’s Between Two Worlds.All of which is to say that while Girl at War is not a terrible book, it does little to distinguish itself either on its literary merits, or as compared to similar stories; it’s the poor man or woman’s version of the books listed above.
This one has been on my to read list for such a long time, and then BookRiot recommended it in anticipation for my trip to the Balkans, perfect excuse to finally read this one.Ana Juric is residing in Zagreb (former Yugoslavia) in the 1990's when the wars broke out effectively breaking up Yugoslavia and changing the landscape of the Balkans forevermore.
Her family decides to send baby Rahela to America for help through MediMission while continuing to struggle in their home country.
I had to find out what happened to Ana, her family, and her culture.
The first part of the book introduces us to Ana as a child in Yugoslavia - the author does an amazing job of showing us how slowly war creeps into your life, and then she follows it up with one of the most unexpected and shocking scenes I've ever read.
Girl at War also focuses on Ana trying to fit into the American culture, but never really feeling like she belongs anywhere.
This is a book not only about a girl in a war, but about a girl at war with herself and her world, trying to make peace with her past and her present.
Realisticamente a Jugoslávia como país agrupava um conjunto de regiões e etnias, com diferentes credos religiosos, que formavam uma unidade de génese artificial, assente na repressão política e social, dominada por dirigentes comunistas ditatoriais, com uma economia que estava a entrar em colapso.
Ana Jurić é envolvida de uma forma trágica e dramática na guerra…Em 2001, dez anos mais tarde, encontramos Ana Jurić em Nova Iorque, como estudante universitária em Manhattan e como sobrevivente da Guerra Civil Jugoslava, participando, igualmente, em conferências na ONU sobre o conflito armado – incapaz de separar a história do seu país da sua história individual.
Told in four parts, the story flips between this setting and Ana ten years later - a student living in New York.
Here are some unoriginal things I could say about Girl at War:- Ana is a fairly likeable and interesting character, but the narrative never gets into her head enough for her story to be truly emotive, despite the all the hardships she faces.
One of the strongest aspects of the settings is the way Nović highlights how alien Ana's way of life is when compared with what the reader is likely to have experienced, while frequently reminding us that these conflicts are not some distant, ancient memory but actually took place very recently.
As a side effect of modern warfare, we had the peculiar privilege of watching the destruction of our country on television.I found this book after it was nominated for two categories in the Goodreads Choice Awards - Debut Author and Fiction.
Her as a young girl in Croatia, and later in her twenties as a college student in New York.The writing was great, with vivid characters that broke your heart.I just wish there was more resolution with this book.
However, I'm impressed enough to see what else this author will write.
Croatia, the War of Independence (1991-1995) and the aftermath as seen through the eyes of a young girl.
This was maybe a three and a half star book for me.
Lots of people loved this book and one of the top reviewers, Karen, suggests that the detached tone is a literary device.
This is Sara Nović's first novel and she is clearly a promising young writer.
Her prose style is smooth, easy to read, interesting, and I learned a fair bit about Croatia and the wars that tore the Balkans apart in the 1990's.
I’ve not read much in the genre, but every time I do, it makes me want to go research the time period in question.
Nović’s debut novel is about a girl living in Croatia at the tender age of 10 when the Yugoslavian Civil War breaks out.
The novel fast-forwards to her college years in America, where the tragedies of her youth still haunt her budding adulthood.
She decides to return to Croatia for closure.
Nović manages to balance the darkness of war with breaths of hope and joy.
This is really an astounding book for a debut author.
— Chris Arnonefrom The Best Books We Read in April: http://bookriot.com/2015/05/01/riot-r...
«آنا» دختری از خانواده ای کروات قهرمان کتابه که کودکیش در جنگ بین صرب ها و کروات ها و....
روایت آنا از زندگی آرومش شروع می شه تا به جنگ و نجات معجزه آساش از دست صرب ها و در نهایت رسیدنش به آمریکا می رسه.
مثل زمانی که خاطرات جنگ رو برای «برایان» تعریف می کنه و این خودش حس آنا رو که نمیخواد راجع به گذشته حرف بزنه رو بیشتر القا میکنه.
کشش داستان خوبه اما چیزی که به نظرم با کلیت کتاب همخوانی نداشت پایانش بود.
به نظرم داستان یک باره تموم شده .
Told from both her ten and twenty-year-old perspectives, we gain insight into her simple, happy childhood and how war drastically changed everything she knew overnight.
“The realization that my parents, too, felt pain and fear frightened me more than any strangers could.”In its own way, every war is the same, and as Americans, I think many of us are too ignorant to see how sheltered we really are from it.
The Holocaust is always in the forefront when people think of war crimes, but I am not sure that any war is any better.
Ana, at age 10, is even more naive, not understanding when she goes on an errand to buy cigarettes for a relative, why she is asked whether she wants Croatian or Serbian cigarettes.
Those few who recognized Ana as Croatian likely picked up on small things like these.Throughout the novel, the Croatian language represents being Croatian.
We learn that Croatian, Serbian, and other languages of the region are not mutually unintelligible.
As a linguist (of sorts), the use of Croatian phrases and references throughout, were very unifying and significant to the story.Ana is an extraordinarily brave girl and later young woman.
This is compellingly readable, more so the first half, which is why I ended up dropping the rating a bit, and sheds light on the Yugoslavian war, a war I knew very little about.There was something about the first half of Ana’s story that felt very real and authentic; the narration reminded me of war through a child’s eyes, similar to one of my all-time favorite memoirs, The Girl With the White Flag, about a young girl trying to survive in wartime Okinawa.As Ana ages, the style and narration become more distant, removed, and wooden.
انتهت بغتةً كما بدأت بغتة.في حالةٍ من الدهشة تركتني تلك الرواية، في العادة الروايات التي تتحدثُ عن ا
في باكورة أعمالها تنقل لنا الكاتبة الأمريكية الكرواتية سارة نوفيتش تأثير الحرب على المدنيين و الأطفال منهم خاصة، من خلال  شخصية آنا يوريتش الفتاة الكرواتية التي عايشت الصراع العرقي الدموي في مدينة زغرب سنة 1991 في خضم السؤال عن الهوية و الرغبة في لملمة جراح الحرب ان وُجد لذلك سبيل، تراوح الكاتبة الشابة بين ماضي الشخصية المحورية و حاضرها، و ما بين كرواتيا و الولايات المتحدة في رحلة للبحث عن الذات و إعادة التواصل مع الجذور. رواية رائعة سواء من ناحية السرد القصصي أو من ناحية بناء الشخصيات… لم أستمتع هكذا بعمل أدبي أمريكي كُتب حديثا منذ مدة. تمت12/08/2017
This is a sad story; is there even a story of war which is not sad? Ana whose parents had been killed in front of her is now a college student in NY. After presenting in UN about civil war in Croatia she decides to go back home again....
Novic has created a distance between Ana and her story, in both time and space, allowing her descriptions of events to be told in a rather detached tone.
Her thoughts are reflected through youthful experience, even in the parts of the book in which Ana is older, and these two strands of war and childhood are intertwined in her memory to such an extent that any remembrance is difficult.
I read lots of books on this period: sweeping histories, political commentaries, reportage, personal memoirs.
In this novel, the story of the Bosnian War in the early 90s is told through the eyes of 10 year old Ana, who is living in Zagreb, the capital of Croatia when war breaks out.
Fast forward 10 years, and Ana is living in the U.S. as a young college student with memories of her past haunting her.
The story was told with sensitivity and the ending was perfect and satisfying.It’s rare that I find a book narrated by a child/teenager so satisfying.
Switching time periods between past and present was done very well and was necessary for the story as a whole.
" أتعرفون ما هو الوطن ..
الوطن هو ألا يحدث ذلك كله " أتعرفون ما هو الوطن ..
ما هي فكرة الحرب والتشتت ..
ماهي الحالة النفسية التي قد يعيشها الشخص ما بعد الحرب والتي قد تستمر إلى ما لا نهاية أيهما أصعب أن تعيش في بلدك وقت الحرب أو أن تجد لك وطنا بديلا يتسع لك ولأحلامكولكن سؤالي هنا ؟!!ماذا عن الوطن بعد انتهاء الحرب؟؟ ألا يبقى يطاردنا في أحلامنا ويقظتنا وإن عدنا إليههل قد نجد أنفسنا من جديد هل نتعرف عليه ويتعرف عليناهل يعود كما كان ؟ أم أن الأوطان بعد الحروب تعود بصورة مشوهة وضئيلة صورة لا يمكن ترم
فنعود مع أسئلة أكثر وأكبر قد لا يتحملها العقلقد نجد بعض السلام والهدوء للمضي قدما ولكن في النهاية يبقى السؤال هل نعود نحن كما كنا قبل الحرب ..؟تقودنا آنا في دوامة من الأسئلة ..
و العودة لكرواتيامع استرجاع لفترة الحرب وما حدث فيها من مآسي و نخوض معها آلاف الأسئلة والمخاوف الأبدية وفي ظل مخاوفها نجد أنفسنا محاصرين بخوف ربما أكبر ..
Sara Novic's Girl at War is frustratingly incomplete.
Ana wanders through Girl at War in a directionless daze.
Ana's parents, friends, sister, and boyfriend all feel like stock characters pulled at random from the fiction warehouse, and she herself is not much better.
This might be easier to stomach if we heard more of her childhood story sooner; for some reason her ten years in and around Zagreb are chopped in half and interspersed with boring scenes of Ana as a student in New York (astoundingly unappreciative of the opportunities she's been given).
But Ana is less a person than a piece of anti-war propaganda, and we never get to know her well enough to sympathize.
While attempting to travel within the country with her family, Ana’s once simple life is thrown into chaos and sets off a chain of events that will lead her through dark, unexpected situations.Girl at War is completely devourable, in the best way.
Her remaining time in Croatia bubbles under the surface and makes the book nearly impossible to put down.Sara Nović has written an unflinching look at life during war and the endless ripples it leaves in its wake.
Girl at War is a debut that makes you thankful to find an author early in their career and thrilled by what they’ll do next.More at rivercityreading.com
This book definitely does some time jumping between the past and present of Ana's life - but you'll love it!
In the beginning, Ana is about 10 years old and she's in the middle of war while in Croatia.
I loved getting to know Ana because she was such a strong character.
This book takes you on her journey - it shows you what she did to survive, how she adjusted her life when things were thrown her way, and how the past definitely shaped her into the woman she is today.The past definitely broke my heart.
