https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169211.F_is_for_Fugitive
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to F is for Fugitive, the 6th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series written in 1988 by Sue Grafton. In between a cozy mystery and a traditional mystery, this series toes the line with its strong and serious private investigator, Kinsey, based in California during the 1980s. In this one, she takes on a case close to 20 years old, trying to collect as many details as she can from the family who has hired her. But they won't tell her everything... and it's about t
Book Review
3 of 5 stars to F is for Fugitive, the 6th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series written in 1988 by Sue Grafton.
In this one, she takes on a case close to 20 years old, trying to collect as many details as she can from the family who has hired her.
A good book in the series, not one of the best ones, but certainly not one of the less fun ones.
Takes Kinsey out of her normal Santa Teresa homestead.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Sue Grafton played up to her strengths, which is the descriptive.
No one, nobody is better than she was at showing us these bits and pieces of metal, cloth, and concrete in which she hatched her characters.Kinsey Millhone.
In each book, this character felt different.
Here she is plagued by a cold case.
Thankfully Sue Grafton was a dab at creating small amounts of tension.
This was believable enough.Unfortunately for us readers who have grown up with Agatha Christie, Dorothy L Sayers, M.C. Beaton, and Ellery Queen, we must admit that the author here is weak at plotting.
Still, the book is in my mind.
When I am reading this series I sometimes think I am actually in a Sara Paretsky book!
Kinsey goes away from home for this one so there was a change of scenery and a raft of new characters, which was refreshing.
The author managed to keep this reader at least in the dark as to the real murderer.
I like that in a mystery:)It is very sad that the author has recently died, but she has left a solid body of work behind her and I intend to read all of it!
Yet another rough ride for Kinsey. I love the way Kinsey manages to pick, pick, pick away uncovering those dirty little secrets in this small town story. Sex, jealousy, scapegoating, insanity, murder- you know- the usual!
Kinsey spends most of this book away from home, where her apartment has been destroyed by a bomb in the E is for Evidence.At the beginning of F is for Fugitive, Bailey Fowler has been captured after decades on the lam.
In that time, grown men who had sex with teenaged girls called them "affairs" and figured that it was fine, since the girl was prolly a slut anyway.In fact, I had a 40-something social studies teacher who divorced his appropriately aged wife so that he could marry the 18 year old student that he had unquestionably been sexually abusing before she turned 18.
The reader gets a really good feel for just how observant Kinsey is of the people around her.
Grafton brings this out as Kinsey is describing the people, the family dynamics and the community culture.
The case is engaging and the supporting characters make great suspects as Kinsey works through the process of trying to find out who killed Jean Timberlake and hopefully free Bailey Fowler.
Reading the story also helps bring into reality that fact Kinsey didn’t really have a true family growing up as she interacts with the Fowler family.
Great story for Kinsey. Didn't include the regular locale or any of the regular characters other than Kinsey.Mostly, I was weirded out that for the first time in the series Sue Grafton didn't mention bougainvillea. Strange!!!
Kinsey is feeling hemmed in and takes a case that has her living with a family that hires her in Floral Beach.
Kinsey is hired by the Fowler family to clear the son (Bailey) since his father doesn't believe Bailey killed his young girlfriend 17 years ago.Having Kinsey in a new location could have been interesting, but I felt claustrophobic while reading this.
It just didn't make a lot of sense and the motive was lame as anything I thought.
The ending has Kinsey glad to get out of Floral Beach and return to Henry.
Kinsey Millhone takes the case of helping an old man clear his son's name.
He has been in hiding, but when he is found, the old case if brought back to light.
He says he didn't do it, and it's Kinsey's job to find who did.The 6th Kinsey Millhone book in Grafton's alphabet series.
I liked that this one took Kinsey away from her home, and introduced her to a small town atmosphere.
The small town made her case more challenging, since everyone knew everyone else, and nobody wanted to be telling secrets to an outsider.
Seventeen years ago, the murder of a teen shocked the small community of Floral Beach.
The young man who confessed to the crime broke out of prison a year later, but he’s been recaptured and Kinsey has been hired to prove his innocence.
Can she learn the truth of what happened all those years ago?One again, we are off on a wild ride that only gets wilder as we go along.
Everything comes together for a great and logical ending, and I’m curious to see how the growth Kinsey experienced here will translate in the next in the series.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I think I liked this the best so far. I'm reading or re-reading Sue Grafton's books starting wit A. This has a good plot, characters, twists, a cold case, and a new locale with the truth hidden till the great ending.
Kinsey is called upon to solve an old murder case in a small, dilapidated beach town.
The residents of Floral Beach all know each other, and many of them seem to have motives for killing off 17-year-old Jean Timberlake.
As usual, Kinsey manages to ingratiate herself into the lives of the suspects, which at times seems a bit forced, but certainly makes the mystery more fun.What makes this mystery work so well is the new setting and the plethora of interesting suspects.
Grafton skillfully outlines the motives of the various residents and keeps us guessing until the very end.
But I powered through today and pretty much read half of it.Kinsey is employed by the father of a man who was arrested for killing his high school girlfriend (who was pregnant) 17 years earlier, but he went on the run.
There's a subplot about the money that Bailey and his best friend got from a couple of armed robberies and had given to Jean to hold (which of course went missing when Jean was killed).I'm warming to Kinsey - the actual killer played some mind games with her, she was also running on virtually no sleep - but she got there in the end.Good story.
Kinsey is away from home this time around, working a cold case for a man hoping to clear his son’s name before he dies.
Ken Kinsey discover the truth before he’s sent back to prison?
I am really enjoying reading through this series in order, for a change.
Kinsey was on top of her game here, and I enjoyed the change of scenery.
Cold cases are always a hit with me, making this story more compelling.
I love small town secrets and family dramas too, and I think this story has a poignant ending, which left me feeling a little sentimental on Kinsey’s behalf.
I liked this installation of the Kinsey Millhone mysteries very well. It had its usual low-life scummy people with whom she has to interact, and some scary situations, but I like how she goes about her investigation -- I think I'd have given up on this one a lot earlier than she did. I especially would never have agreed to eat dinner with that awful family every night! Great ending! And now on to "G".
This is the first story in the series to be set outside of Santa Teresa, and that made for an interesting read. This installment makes you think about the relationship between parent/child, and student/teacher. When do you keep trying to reach someone and when do you give up? Do you ever know if you’ve done enough to prevent future failures?Most thought-provoking book in the series so far.
There were a couple of earlier books in the series that I liked better than this one, but all of them have held a consistent level of entertainment for me. This one took place outside of her usual surroundings. As usual, I was on the cusp of solving the mystery but fell short on the details. I tend to get led off the trail by the distracting nuggets she drops to trick us, lol.
F is for Fantastic! I enjoyed this installment of Sue Grafton's "Alphabet Mysteries" even more than earlier novels in this series. A sharply crafted cast of wacky characters, an engrossing mystery to solve, and a satisfying conclusion. It took this series a while to get going, but now it is racing like a train out of control.
This was a re-read. Kinsey goes away to solve this cold case and we miss the usual characters. The premise is very dark along with the issues that lead her to the conclusion. The people she meets are pretty depressing.
This is such a good series and I have enjoyed them all so far. I love to get involved with such long running story lines, because the characters become such good friends.....on to G......
There is no greater keeper of secrets than a small town that wants to protect its own. Kinsey Millhone discovers this fact when she travels to Florida to investigate a cold-case crime.
Now, after all that time, Bailey has been caught, and his father wants Kinsey to clear his son's name.
Whilst the storyline was interesting and I enjoyed reading it, but I think for the majority of the book, too much time was spent gaining very little information, and then Kinsey suddenly knew who it was right at the end.
Sure, there were little clues to be picked up along the way that suddenly made sense once the killer was revealed, but for the majority of the story I felt she was asking heaps of questions and getting no answers at all, which made it hard to follow he leap at the end.
Grafton seems to have fallen into a pattern with these mystery novels: Kinsey runs, eats little, gets absorbed into the world of the person she's investigating, finds out things very slowly, things come right together in the end, and she almost gets killed.
This novel is certainly no different, except Kinsey is not in her home of Santa Teresa, she's out of her element in a small town called Floral Beach.
My favorite alphabet mystery remains B is for Burglar- although this certainly was a page turner and an interesting read.
Another murder mystery from Sue Grafton, unlike the rest of her books though, this time she is investigating a murder that occurred in the past!
This one didn't really feature many of the normal regulars, there was mention of Kinsey’s neighbour at the beginning...as she was staying with him as a result of her home being blown up in E is for Evidence!!Some interesting new characters but lacking some personalisation in this one and some of the new characters were a little bit too much!!
I actually predicted the murderer of this one...felt it was the most obvious yet!
Short & sweet, F is for Fugitive really only focuses on Kinsey's investigation, which was peculiar enough to keep me interested. Kinsey's personal life, however, was temporarily on hold, so there was no real character development to speak of. These books are always enjoyable. A very good series so far.
3.5 StarsThis book reminds me of why I do NOT like small towns. Everyone is in the others business, and the twisted, creepiness of peoples secrets, knows no bounds. I had no idea who the killer was. What a nutcase.
This was a rather sad story in so many ways. Showed how families can be easily torn apart. Quite different I thought from the others in the series although just as good. More of a mystery this time than a thriller.
Top-notch entry in the series, for me. P.I. Kinsey investigates an old murder in a small CA town. I liked her eye for detail and toughness in this book. Good interaction with the minor characters.
One of my favorite Grafton books...
She has been hired by Royce Fowler, whose son, Bailey, was arrested 17 years ago for murdering his teenage girlfriend, Jean.
Royce, who is dying of cancer, wants Kinsey to find out who the real killer is so Bailey can be released.As Kinsey begins to investigate, she discovers that Jean had been promiscuous so there are many who could have killed her.
Everyone in the town, though, has no doubt that Bailey killed her except his family.I thought this book was okay.
This is the sixth in the "alphabet series" featuring Kinsey Millhone.
