https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10222.The_Far_Pavilions
He tells Koda Dad, his Indian father figure, that he will "always be two people in one skin--which is not a comfortable thing to be." Koda Dad responds that "you may discover in yourself a third person who is neither Ashok nor Pelham-Sahib, but someone whole and complete." The conflict between East and West, both in Ash's soul and in this part of the world generally, is one of the major themes of this book, but there is so much more: an amazing love story with more ups and downs than a roller coaster, a terrifying dive into a corner of India that has preserved its same brutal, backward culture for hundreds of years, and the British battle for a foothold in Afghanistan.The love story epitomizes the divide between India and Britain, but also evinces the hope that there can be an understanding between them.
The author has a great feel and understanding of India under the British Raj. The story of Ash and Juli (Anjuli) was incredible.
The last portion of the book gets away from Ash and Juli (although they are together) and slows down to tell the story of the British incursions into Afghanistan (sp?)and the resultant disaster of setting up a British mission in Kabul.
Ash is still prominent as a "spy" for the guides, in the disguise of a native of the country, but while still a good read, the story takes on a different character from the first portions of the book.
I first read The Far Pavilions by M.M. Kaye when it was first published in 1978 and have since read it a few times…it’s become one of my favorite books ever.This is an epic novel of Ashton Pelham-Martyn, an English officer, during the British Raj period in India, who falls in love with Anjuli, a half-caste Hindu princess.    The author’s knowledge of and childhood experiences in India make this an epic and unforgettable book.A sweeping and gripping high adventure and passionate love story, of he

He is neither British nor Indian, Christian, Muslim or Hindu, he's everything and nothing all at once.
Actually I might recommend this book if you liked Life of Pi. Although I would say that this is a much more thorough and interesting tale.
Ashton (also called Ashok) is born to an English professor and a British mother in India.
Ashok lives a life in poverty as an attendant for a noble family and also becomes very close to the games keeper who is Muslim and learns their traditions as well.
It's only when he is 13 or 14 that he learns that he is English and not Indian.
3.5★When I finish my own review, I'm going to find & like the review where the reviewer packed it in about 160 pages from the finish. & I'm writing"like" when I mean applaud. This novel was more of an epic struggle than an enjoyable experience. 960 pages or not, I'm a fast, avid reader. No book should take me four months to read.My reading progress really does the work of a review! READING PROGRESS08/21 page 42 4.0% "Instantly enthralled!" 08/25 page 97 10.0% "OK, I'm ready for Ash's chi
READING PROGRESS08/21	page 42		4.0%	"Instantly enthralled!" 08/25	page 97		10.0%	"OK, I'm ready for Ash's childhood to be over!"09/01	page 183		19.0%	09/06	page 258		26.0%	09/08	page 288		30.0%	09/15	page 316		32.0%	09/18	page 395		41.0%	"Awesome ending to part 3!"09/22	page 401		41.0%	09/25	page 467		48.0%	10/02	page 530		55.0%	10/20	page 570		59.0%	"This is my Everest!"10/30	page 614		63.0%	11/03	page 707		73.0%	11/27	page 720		75.0%	12/01	page 740		77.0%	12/04	page 798		83.0%	"Part 7 is dragging..."12/05	page 823		85.0%	"My copy completely disintegrated - the middle has fallen out.
I'm thinking this book being both a historical and (part of the time) a historical romance is what doesn't work for me." 
Some books get into your senses.
M.M. Kaye is a storyteller that makes you taste India.
She takes her own life experience and, like  Rudyard Kipling and  Frances Hodgson Burnett, draws fairy tales in the sands of Southern India while tucked in at the bed of the Himalayans.
This is not just a book for women, with its romance and its splendour, but  Ernest Hemmingway would be proud of the imagery used to explain the Sepoy Mutiny, the uprising of the colonised soldiers against the colonist generals.
Reading this book for the first time (as a teenager) was a magical experience for me.
They were so real for me--Ash and Juli, Wally and Zarin, Biju Ram and Hira Lal. Leaving their world--leaving India--at the end of the book was painful.
One is his traditional English persona which is forced on him in his later childhood, and the other is Ashok, the person he was in his earliest memories of himself.
Toward the end of the book is a battle scene based on a real historic event.
Usually I find protracted battle scenes tedious, but this time .
You are still hypnotized by that selfish, hysterical little egotist."Or later, after Shushila has died and Anjuli is still mourning her (it's been, like, less than a month, by the way):"You will not", said Ash, speaking between clenched teeth, "say that name to me again.
Sorry to spoil it for you, but uh, I'm just trying to spare you all from reading it.Anyway, this event convinces Ash and Anjuli that they're too good for the rest of humanity and so they should just go live by themselves in some valley in the Himalayas (the fact that the Himalayas are, you know, already populated does not appear to present a problem):"Where do you go?""We go to find our Kingdom, Sirdar-Sahib.
I finished it!!!!I'm not even going to try to summarize this, enough readers have already done so and to be honest, it's so huge, so SO HUGE that I wouldn't even know where to start.
You can only read something for the first time once, so choose carefully.My favorite part: Ash's childhood in India and later....
I mainly read those bits to see who else had died.Highly recommended.CONTENT:SEX: One scene, not explicit but not really for young readers either.VIOLENCE: Some battle scenes, poisonings, Suttee, assassinations etc, not gratuitous, but people do die.LANGUAGE: Mild profanity sparsely scattered throughout.
Like one of those days where you feel like reading the Lord of the Rings trilogy because you want a romping good time, but sadly, you've already read the Lord of the Rings trilogy and you're not really in the mood for the wordiness that is Tolkien anyway - you just want all the fun and adventure without all the work.Okay, maybe I'm the only one who has waited to read this book for those reasons.I've read some other things by Kaye, but they were specifically mysteries.
I knew The Far Pavilions wouldn't be that same sort of excitement, but I figured since the book is about the same weight as I am that I'd find something exciting in the pages.What I really found, sadly, was a lot of disappointment.

The Far Pavilions is one of my all time favorite books.
I picked it up and was absolutely enthralled.This historical fiction is reminiscent of Margaret George's books in its character development, dramatic plot line, and, clocking in at more than 900 pages, length.
I love it and always recommend it to people who are looking for excellent historical fiction.If you loved The Far Pavilions, I'd recommend reading anything by Margaret George, The Red Tent by Anita Diamant, and Gone With the Wind by Margaret Mitchell.
(I wonder why so many Margarets are amazing historical fiction authors?
4.75 ⭐ A historical fiction the way it ought to be written. Damn near perfect.
4.75 ⭐️ A historical fiction the way it ought to be written. Damn near perfect.
First published in 1978, this monumental epic sold -million in hardback alone; paperback sales, especially after the TV series, soared. Justifiably. Though written in a completely different style, I feel it can be set alongside Paul Scott’s magisterial Raj Quartet. Set in India during the time of the British Raj, The Far Pavilions tells the story of Englishman Ashton Pelham-Martyn from birth in the 1850s, through the Indian Mutiny until the Second Afghan War, 1879.Due to its scale, the story has
Set in India during the time of the British Raj, The Far Pavilions tells the story of Englishman Ashton Pelham-Martyn from birth in the 1850s, through the Indian Mutiny until the Second Afghan War, 1879.Due to its scale, the story has to be told from an omniscient point of view.
And they don’t like being dictated to or ruled by foreigners – any foreigners!’ It applied in 1979 and, to all intents and purposes, it applies now.It was fascinating to read of places such as Murree, Jamrud fort, Peshawar, Islamabad – all part of India at the time.
I guess I was expecting an exciting adventure mixed with a beautiful love story.
I got a long dry trip across the desert, a war story and a love story with very little romance.
I did learn a lot from this story and I always appreciate that from a book.
The book did have many interesting and exciting parts, but I feel that it was entirely too long.
All of the extra wording took away from the main story and made it at times very tedious and slow.
I did enjoy Ash and Juli's story and wish we had spent more time with them together.
It's a beautiful "sweeping epic" set in British colonial India, the story of "Ash", who spends the first part of his life believing he's the son of a Hindu serving woman in the palace of a rajah and is himself enlisted as a personal servant/favorite playmate of the young prince.
I love all the palace intrigue and politics, and the juxtaposition of Eastern and Western cultures and ideals, and the ways Ash is depicted searching to make meaning of his identity and his spiritual and personal beliefs.
I was excited to read it, and only finished for my book club (yes, I do take one for the team now and then).
1. The narrative's flow is disappointing, things happen and then you're on to the next event with little transition, which made the piece feel rushed in that sense.2.
3. There were some parts of the book that weren't needed, it was filled with tangents to the narrative that not only made the book longer, but took space away from a better development of the narrative and characters.On the whole a very disappointing book, I would not recommend it to anyone.
Buddy read with Hana, Tadiana, Kathy and Felicia in July 2014.This was my third reading and it's still a favorite.
I wanted to read every single word because this is such a wonderful story.
I may have read more carefully because it was a buddy read, or maybe I just get more out of the books I read since joining GR, whatever the reason, this third reading was the best ever.
I would refer anyone interested to the group discussion pages:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/group...Thanks for a great read ladies.
And thank you to Hana for setting up the folders!
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Magnificent book, telling the story of Aston and Anjuli ant the India struggle against Afghnistan.The movie is available at You Tube. It is as good as this book, it's worth watching.
They give human beings a place to belong while simultaneously limiting and stifling them.Despite all of the other compelling characters, Ash and Juli's saga was so central to the book's emotional core that the story lost its way when its focus shifted to the Second Afghan War and the ill-fated British mission to Kabul.
I wish M.M. Kaye had used that section as the basis for a second book, rather than trying to shoehorn it into Ash and Juli's story.The key figures in the siege against the British mission were based on real people.
Today I am reading Kipling's Kim. I remember the leading character in Kaye's book as similar to Kim. The Far Pavilions is a saga (it's quite large) set in India during the Raj. It is sympathetic to British and their loyal subjects (sympathizers?), and presents an enlightening contrast to Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness.
I recommend The Far Pavilions to everyone open minded enough to understand that people and events should be evaluated within the world in which they lived at the time.
This is the best epic novel I ever read.
It's an historical adventure/romance that takes place in colonial India.
Later as a young man he falls in love with a young woman, Anjuli, who has been promised to marry an elderly wealthy nobleman against her will.
Custom dictated Anjuli would be burned alive on his funeral pier at his death.
Thirty years later I still think of these characters I came to love so much sometimes.
It's a beautifully written novel, and also a page-turner-- never drags-- and I learned a lot about India too.
I brought this audio edition with a monthly credit. (I succumbed after looking at all the cool narrators. Very good so far, this book aside).I have no problems with the narrator, Vikras Adam is very good. I'm not sure if this book works best in audio form, however. GR friends whose reviews and opinions I respect greatly love this book, and for that reason alone I will give this a try in print version. But Ash is annoying me and I find some of the description to be rather repeatitive. Will try print version.
What was even greater was that not only big events were true but also small ones (Mrs Kaye knew India, lived there, and men in her family belonged to Corps of Guides - so she knew the stories also from them).
After this book, I understand more why this modern occupation couldn't possibly be successful.because Afghanistan is no country to fight a war in – and an impossible one to hold if you win2) Great characters, that weaved the plot perfectly.
Being woefully ignorant of history, I didn't know how frustrating and ultimately tragic this historical fiction was going to be. I did find the main character Ash a tad irritating at times only to be brought up short by the realization of how young he was (he is still under 30 at the end of this epic!).The narrator (whose name escapes me at the moment) was terrific.
Ambitious historical-fiction of the British in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan during the second half of the 19th century-I became a little impatient toward the end.
This part in particular stood out: "That such a thing [another Afghan war] could happen again had seemed so impossible that even after Koda Dad had warned him of it, he could not believe that anyone with any sense could consider it, largely because, like most Frontier Force soldiers, he was under no illusions as to the fighting capabilities of the Border tribesmen or the ruggedness of the country in which they lived; and knew only too well the appalling problems posed by supply and transport (quite apart from the actual fighting) that must confront any modern army attempting to advance through a hostile land where every hill-top and ravine, each rock and stone and fold in the ground, could hide an enemy marksman."As for Wally, dear sweet Wally, you could see in him the future folly of the First World War, when similar lads would sign up with dreams of military glory and honor, only to be cut down in their thousands in the fields of France.
A real epic novel of war and romance, it has been called a "Gone with the Wind" set in India and Afghanistan.
It has been written that her lead character of Ashton, completely able to blend in with the colorful, fierce Afghan Pashtun tribes, was modeled after her father.People who know this book - love it and read it again and again.
If you like Historical romances and/or want a real taste of what Afghanistan and India were like in the late 1880's - please treat yourself to this book!!!
Kaye was born, raised, and spent her early married life in India, and she and her husband came from a long line of British officers that served the British Raj. In fact, given the dedication, Walter Hamilton, a character in the novel, was related to her husband.
At first the last 250 pages centered on Afghanistan seemed an anti-climatic digression, but I ultimately felt it effectively tied together the novel's themes of tolerance and acceptance, as well as holding its own fascination for showing how Western powers came to grief over a hundred years ago in a "fanatically independent" land.I wouldn't call this a "literary" book that impresses because of style.
