https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32075671-the-hate-u-give
When you're reading books like The Hate U Give, you're reading someone's decision against silence.This book has made me feel every single possible emotion at the same time. It was truly incredible and I have SO MUCH to say about it I wish I could actually just send everyone a howler containing the entire script of this book instead. “What's the point of having a voice if you're gonna be silent in those moments you shouldn't be?” In all honesty, The Hate U Give has made me realize just how simply
A reality in which justice is dead and the police kills black youth with impunity.And so many other real stories I read about that truly made the atoms making up my body have enough of being anchored to this awful reality in this human form and wish to move on, become a light wave or something.See, I don’t know what it's like to be black in America, but I have 18 years of experience in being a brown Muslim woman and I can tell you this: being in the minority is like being stuck behind a glass wall and whenever an injustice occurs, you breathe onto it and you write it in HUGE letters in the condensation...but nobody seems to really see it.
The truth casts a shadow over the kitchen—people like us in situations like this become hashtags, but they rarely get justice. I think we all wait for that one time though, that one time when it ends right.Maybe this can be it. There are those books that are important and timely, worthy of reading because of the social and/or political message that they send. They fill a gap in the market; they make waves. They need to exist. And there are other books that are well-written, emotionally-charged
I could tell you that it rips unapolegetically into a subject that needed to be ripped into - the shootings of unarmed black people by police officers, as well as racial bias in the justice system.
All of that needs to be said, for sure, but I feel like I'm doing this book a disservice by highlighting its sociopolitical importance over the fact that it's also a fantastic, powerful and utterly unforgettable book.I don't know what your experiences were as a child, but when I was young, I remember my parents giving me a talk about how if I was ever lost or in trouble, I should look for a police officer.
The person who said "you're white," who has no other reason besides this prejudice to be angry and stop talking to a white person, is Starr Carter, the narrator of this supposedly anti-racist book.After Starr's black friend, Khalil, is unjustly shot by a white police officer, Starr immediately zeroes in on the fact that the police officer was white.
If you're looking for a diverse read that stands out amongst most YA,  The Hate U Give  is the book for you.I love Starr Carter so much.
I truly don't think you can leave this book without SOMETHING that will have made you say "I never thought about it this way", "When you put it this way, that actually makes a lot of sense.", and "I'm glad someone finally told me this."Although this book is full of important moments related to the current state of marginalized populations, it is primarily about using your voice.
I believe this book has the power to make readers realize just how much their words matter.
When the Khalils get arrested for selling drugs, they either spend most of their life in prison, another billion-dollar industry, or they have a hard time getting a real job and probably start selling drugs again.That's the hate they're giving us, a system designed against us.
Angie Thomas gets so many things right, and so many readers can learn about black culture, cultural appropriation, covert and internalized racism and so much more through this.Apart from that, this book is simply good.
‘‘A hairbrush is not a gun.’’ This doesn’t make any sense. And I hope that to you, too, it will not make any sense.Starr may only be sixteen, but she has already witnessed two murders in her life: the first of a young black girl in a drive by and the second of a young black boy shot multiple times by a cop.While she was in the car. Even though they didn’t do anything wrong. Even though he was unarmed.  ‘‘A hairbrush is not a gun.’’ Does that make any sense to you? You can’t just kill someone be
And I hope that to you, too, it will not make any sense.Starr may only be sixteen, but she has already witnessed two murders in her life: the first of a young black girl in a drive by and the second of a young black boy shot multiple times by a cop.While she was in the car.
Can you predict that they will reach for a gun and kill you with it?No, you cannot.
It has been told orally and on paper many times before, unfortunately, but it was time someone wrote a book dealing with social issues of race like the ones here for a young audience.For young people are dying.
This was such a heartbreakingly honest account of what is happening in America right now.
Being Canadian, as well as being white, I have the privilege of not having to deal with any of the things Starr deals with on a day to day basis but the experience of being alongside her as she grappled with the injustice of it all gave me a completely new understanding of what is going on in America.
Canada has it's fair share of race issues as well and I obviously am not ignorant to it all, but this just felt like an honest firsthand account.
“Splitting up in situations when they clearly need to stick together.”I understand that this scene is all in good fun, but it made me feel VERY uncomfortable while I was reading it.Now I want you to use those objective glasses we talked about earlier and objectively tell me, that if this was reversed with races, everyone wouldn’t be flipping crap over it, because I’m positive they would.Here’s a rule I like the stick with: if I’d find it offensive if it was pinned on me, I don’t speak it.
GET READY, WORLD!
A thoughtful, honest and fantastic book. One of 2017's shining stars for sure. Highly, highly recommend.
She feels like there are two of her—the devoted daughter who lives in a poor neighborhood and saw her best friend get killed in a drive-by shooting when they were 10, and the student at the fancy prep school her parents sent her and her brothers to in order to get them out of the ghetto, the student who doesn't speak the way she does at home, and lets very few people into her "real world." Even her boyfriend at school, Chris, with whom she watches reruns of 
This really blew my mind, and I think this is a book which really deserves all of the hype it is getting.Several times in the book Starr's mother uttered the quote, "Sometimes you can do everything right and things will still go wrong.
This is one of the best audiobooks I've listened to all year. If you are considering reading this one, listen to it. You wont regret it.
It is important, educational, and happening in our world right now as you're reading this review.
This book is inspired by the #BlackLivesMatter movement, where sixteen-year-old Starr witnesses her best friend, who is an unarmed black boy, be killed by a police officer.
This book is real, honest, and it's going to make a lot of people uncomfortable, but being uncomfortable is necessary to change.
And this book is going to change a lot of people's lives.
I hope everyone reads this and starts educating themselves on, and will stop ignoring, the problems going on in today's world.
Like, dude, this book is important and one of the best contemporaries.So I have to admit: the character are what makes it that just something incredibly special for me.
And that's why this book is so good and the story so real.OTHER LIST OF THINGS I LOVED:• Starr has friends who are women, like god bless, this shouldn't be irregular but it is in a lot of books• there is SO MUCH FOOOOOOOOOD• Starr has a super sweet relationship with her uncle as well• It's funny!!
When you read a 444 page book in one day bc you can’t put it down. Powerful. Yeah, I don’t think I can write a review for this one other than to say everyone (of a certain age/maturity) should read this. Poignant, important and timely.
congratulations, 2017 goodreads choice winner in both best YA fiction AND best debut goodreads author!!i rarely read realistic YA - if i’m going to read YA, i prefer fantasy or survival stuff where teens are in peril.
but this was recommended to me by too many people to put aside "for later,” and while there are plenty of teens in peril, this sure ain’t fantasy.
it earns every one of its rave reviews; it’s an important, timely book that doesn’t feel as though it was thrown together in order to cash in on its timeliness.
Audiobook: A VERY NON-TRADITIONAL REVIEW: - just sharing....not really a review...
My typical days are like boot camp lately -walking between 7-10 miles a day -PLUS an hour circuit weight resistance class ( 4 mile walk to class from my house) -- then I often walk to a cafe - eat & drink something - check-in with Goodreads -- try to touch base with this community- a few 'one-on- one' chatting exchanges--during my sitting break.Sometimes I try to talk into the phone while I walk.
I retired from traditional reviews--- but I may write a few NON- TRADITIONAL REVIEWS as my way to feel connected with people here I love and am forever thankful for!!!
"We are with you not against youWe only hope you got the common sense toRealize we're unifiedAnd realize we are here to back youAnd not let anybody else attack youSo you know we're on your sideWe're unified"The Mighty Mighty BosstonesThe Hate That U Give is an important story about humanity.
This is awesome because I think all people should give this story a try.
This book not only shows what happens if the hate grows, but also what happens when we work together to overcome it.
It hit every single point and put you right in the middle of it.I also liked how Angie Thomas made brought up big points in really subtle ways.
But the quote that really hit hard was, “Funny.
Slave masters thought they were making a difference in black people’s lives too.
I read that quote and was like, damn, preach it girl!The minority alliance between Starr and Maya made me so happy.
It was so good to see a black girl and her Asian best friend team up.
Personally, I think we need more minority alliances because there is more that unites us than divides us and together we can make a big impact.
Wow, talk about a book that can hit you with every emotion possible.
This is an incredibly powerful book, not just for its political message but for the internal conflict Starr is struggling with.
You did nothing wrong!"Though I know there are other authors out there with stories like this to tell, it's so great to see this sort of coming of age story receive the commercial success it has.
I wish Angie Thomas nothing but success and good fortune in all her future endeavors.
It centers on a teenage black girl, Starr Carter, who leaves her crime-riddled neighborhood each day to attend an affluent school across town.
Some will stick around to support her, others will reveal that they were never really who she thought they were.While this book certainly highlighted the issue of police brutality against blacks, there were several other takeaways for me.
Racism is still racism and it is wrong, regardless of the race.Although I did find the danger of Starr's neighborhood to be exaggerated, the author also highlighted the issue of violent crime, drugs and gang warfare.
YES I felt uncomfortable while reading the comments about interracial relationships in this book but YES I realize it has nothing to do with me - because this book isn’t about my culture - and YES if a Black person tells you you’re being racist you have every right - you’re even encouraged - to shut the hell up because I think they know what racism looks like.Also, to everybody who says racism isn’t a thing anymore ….
More like a 4.5 :).I loved this book so much. It made me see things from a different perspective. It educated me.
Así que cada vez que mencionaban a alguien, algún baile, un artista, lo buscaba en internet y podía empaparme más en la historia, tanto que al final conocía tan bien a todos los personajes que sentía que estaba con ellos en medio de todo.Starr Carter vive en un vecindario problemático, en donde las peleas y los traficantes de drogas están a la orden del día.
Un momento muy importante para mí en esta lectura es saber que el libro está inspirado en un movimiento real, Thug life: The hate u give little infants fucks Everybody, proclamado por Tupac Amaru Shakur, quien era un rapero que las letras de sus canciones se centraban en crecer alrededor de la violencia, violencia contra las mujeres, dificultades en los barrios y mensajes de igualdad racial.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Authentic, funny, and occasionally overlong. The Hate U Give is saturated with poignant messages about community, bravery, and the power of one voice.
Video review (6 Reasons To Read It)- https://youtu.be/XM_c3_KTEX4YES.Read this.Not only is this a timely and powerful story, but Angie Thomas has the writing range of a seasoned pro.
This book had some of the most well developed characters that I've ever read.
Thomas switches gears from writing a basketball game, to a day working retail, to a family dinner, to a prom scene, to a murder, to rioting in the streets without ever missing a beat.
It has such a strong sense of family, friendships, community, and self.Seriously, it's the most full, real story I've read in a long time.
It's a story that is powerful & tragic & relevant.What I enjoyed most about this book was its honest portrayal of modern issues among black communities, and how largely unaware we who are outside of those communities can be.
~How the people paid to protect us don't always consider all of us worth protecting.~How racism is intentional at times.
How racism is destructive all of the time.~How death isn't something we think about until it affects someone we know personally."Her words used to have power.
Believe the hype.Watch my review: https://youtu.be/MooDoNa2GowSee my time on the set of the movie (!!!!) including interviews with Amandla Sternberg & Sabrina Carpenter https://youtu.be/kSQ8B8JWP9Q
Okay, yeah, it makes total sense for a school library to ban a book that is educating people about issues going on in the country they live in!!!When I read this book, my eyes were opened.
I can’t believe that a school district is banning people’s right to read a book so incredibly important in today’s world, that talks of issues happening RIGHT NOW and need to be addressed.
This was an amazing book and completely understand why everyone has been raving about it!It will make you laugh with all the Harry Potter references, cry with all the horrible things that happen and will bring us all closer in our hate for Hailey (kidding... kinda :P)4.5?
