https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78257.Quicksand
Somehow, Helga Crane’s odyssey through life - from excitement to disappointment, to rebellion, break-out, and new excitement, leading to repeated disappointment - mirrors and reflects the difficulties all people face who do not completely fit into their environment.
Women around the world live like that, and feel Helga’s despair without any reason to believe that they will be able to break free and live a life embracing different layers of identity at the same time.It is better now, in some parts of the world.
But too many of us still struggle to combine longing for freedom with a wish to belong to a conventional community, or hope for an independent life with yearning for children.
Totally misunderstood by those around her, mistreated and disowned by her white family,abandoned by her father, with nobody really to help her, it's no wonder she built up walls… I looked at Helga’s internal and external struggles during the first part of the book and wondered how on earth anybody could live like that, with that sort of ambiguity, so I was glad when she decided to visit her Aunt Katrina in Denmark:“Leaning against the railing, Helga stared into the approaching night, glad to be at last alone, free of that great superfluity of human beings, yellow, brown, and black, which, as the torrid summer burnt to its close, had so oppressed her.”I liked how Larsen juxtaposed the Danish culture of Helga’s mother and the Black culture of her father.
3.5/5It's galling when a book does not keep the promises it makes at the outset. There's a problematic discord between Larsen's finely crafted sentences and the rather amateurish splicing of theme and plot. And this constant discrepancy morphs into a bothersome enough flaw that is responsible for those 3 stars. Life wasn't a miracle, a wonder. It was, for Negroes at least, only a great disappointment. Something to be got through with as best one could. In a way this is a failed bildungsroman whe
And yet the blow of this tragedy is dulled by Helga Crane's relentless forthrightness which the authorial voice brings out with nary an attempt at novelty.
Go back to America, where they hated Negroes!
To America, where Negroes were not people.
To America, where Negroes were allowed to be beggars only, of life, of happiness, of security.
Like every other tortured hero/heroine in literature, there is tension between Helga's private and public selves which refuses to abate despite her best efforts.
This is possibly because I was only ever bluntly told about Helga's insecurities and emotional vulnerabilities, seldom shown.
Worst of all was the fact that she understood and sympathized with Mrs. Nilssen’s point of view, as she always had been able to understand her mother’s, her stepfather’s, and his children’s points of view. She saw herself for an obscene sore in all their lives, at all costs to be hidden. She understood, even while she resented. It would have been easier if she had not. Someone at the helm of NYRB Classics fell asleep at the wheel, for the fact that this work has not yet been granted a rebirth i
It is a matter of minds in different worlds that for all the voids of time and skin convene here, in this place of the written word and the life it spawns.
Neither Helga nor Larsen had happy endings; it is their living by truth I must look to.
Now you know, Helga Crane, that can mean only one thing.” Anne’s voice was trembling with cold hatred.
That coming to terms of the self is far more worthwhile than any seeming happiness of an ending.
We follow her over a number of years; initially as a teacher in an all-black school in the south.
The reader knows by the end that Crane has run out of her own inner resources and what happens to her is now out of her control, but she does have an awareness of the exploitation and repression she has suffered.One interesting point of the novel is Larsen’s use of colours.
There was yellow hair, brown hair, black hair; straight hair, straightened hair, curly hair, crinkly hair, woolly hair…”But also the colours of clothes and fabrics, which in a way add to the hollowness of Helga Crane’s world.
Not as complete or as beautiful as "Passing", though most of the same themes are kept intact.
That in a conservative environment nothing changes is absolutely correct--will the times ever change?
Looking at the news, at national happenings, the answer is a nice, dark, heavy no.There are some similarities to Woolf's Clarissa Dalloway--much meditation and inside-the-head narration, with very little poetry, actually.
This novel bashes the reader repeatedly in the head: yes, it sucks to be a woman; yes it sucks to be of color.
That she is a woman and colored.
She suffers indignities like everyone else.
Like I've said, "Passing" is a way better novel.
Biracial, black, she is rejected by her white family, yet raised among whites, starved of any recognition or respect, finding refuge in aesthetic and intellectual pleasures, both drawn to and repelled by the joyous abandon of Harlem's parties and jazz clubs, scornful also of the black activists who talk of racial equality but, fed on white supremacy, cannot help but privately disdain aspects of blackness.Escaping Naxos, a black college in the South, where the contaminant dust of antiblackness hangs thick and heavy over everything, from clothes to curriculum, she is at first elated by the style of New York, by the liveliness and keener race-consciousness of Harlem.
Both refer or reflect, to varying degrees, the Harlem Renaissance.
But the protagonists are different, reflecting the strengths and weaknesses of their childhoods, their acceptance of their selves, their marriages, friendships, and above all, their feelings about being black, being Negro, in white America.Quicksand is, if anything, to my mind, even sadder than Passing.
Helga's happy times seem based on running away from questions she simply can't answer.
Another aspect of the novel I noticed and also recalled from Passing is the often oddly constructed sentences.
I wondered if this was a reflection of the time at all.
Even by you.’ Her understanding of her situation is different from a black woman like Anne, who in her racial fervor, deconstructs everything into the rigid binaries of ‘black’ and ‘white’, a kind of consciousness that doesn’t breathe outside the margins of race.
So I can do as I please.' She consciously wants to use her ambiguous racial identity, to search for more complex experiences and perspectives which go beyond the superficiality and generalizations, into which things are reduced to for someone belonging to one community.
The question of identity, whether it is racial or cultural, is something that I think about a lot, and this particular story truly captures the internal struggle of someone who can never feel at home anywhere because somewhere in their background, the lines were blurred.
This novel follows the life of Helga Crane as she struggles to find her place in the world.
And she must struggle, for she was a mixed-race child in an era when that was a sin marked against her from the day of her birth.The back cover blurb tells us 'Helga's mother is white, and her father is black ~~ and absent.
Ostracized throughout her lonely childhood for her dark skin, Helga spends her adult life seeking acceptance.
What kept Helga from such acceptance?
She did not feel at home with either set of 'her people'.
3/5starsI """read""" this for class aka i skimmed it and took notes when we discussed it in classseems like it'd be a good book though! I just did NOT have time for that lol
There was a recurrence of the feeling that now, at last, she had found a place for herself, that she was really living." Set in the 1920s, the novel has a surprisingly modern feeling to it.
I find it amazing that in just 125 pages, Larsen captures Helga's experience as a bi-racial woman, in four very different places - teaching at an insular boarding school, amongst the black elite in Harlem, as an exotic figure in Copenhagen and finally falling into the quicksand of the deep south.
The novel is not just about one troubled life but also about racism and racial identity in the US.
And what at first seems like self-sufficiency and even courageousness begins to molder bit by bit around the edges, and the haunting line “but it didn’t last, this happiness of Helga Crane’s” begins to resurface constantly like an inevitable refrain accompanying each turn of events.
In the end Quicksand was a protracted, mournful lament instead of the harrowing shriek against racism or sexism (or any number of other social ills for that matter) that I had initially expected it would be; instead it turned out to be something more ambiguous, more difficult to pin down and get a handle on—and in the end I found myself all the more devastated because of it.
This is a fictionalized account of the author's own life and experiences. Extremely Tragic Mulatto.I find it interesting that 'Helga'/ Nella so accurately read the bullshit self-hating aspect to The Tuskegee Institute under Booker T. Washington, at the same time the main character is very antiblack. The way Helga describes Black People and their culture is demeaning. I've since read this author latter in life 'passes'. I can see that based on how much of her philosphy and outlook makes up this novel.
i marvel at the magic that was the harlem renaissance, when african american writers and artists, still fresh from the civil war, during jim fucking crow, carved themselves a space in which to talk about race so freely, so controversially, so open-woundedly, you know the world would not be the same if the harlem renaissance hadn't happened.
the language of this book alone testifies to a freedom of experimentation that blows the mind (the 20s were good from this point of view for everyone in the english speaking world, though, not just for african american authors).
Too close!However, Helga lacks a home and sense of identity, her white mother, an immigrant from Denmark, died when Helga was fifteen, leaving her alone but for her Uncle Peter, a white man who arranges for her education but otherwise remains the racially correct amount of distant toward her.
Led astray by her own folly and inevitable inability to know her own mind, Helga searches for a home, an identity, and a balm to sooth the racial friction of her very being.I read this novel for a literature class, and my classmate pointed out immediately how distasteful and unlikeable Helga is as a character.
When I finished it a few weeks ago I gave it 4 stars, but it has really stuck in my mind since then, so I've decided to upgrade that to 5 stars.
This relates to how do we perceive ourselves, and what exactly is it that gives us our identity?So I could write a long review, giving details of the author's background and how that links in with the background of the main character in the novel.
Suffice it to say, that the title of the book 'Quicksand' relates so well to the experience of the main character, and maybe other characters as well, in their attempt to find a place they feel comfortable with in society.
Despite the white public’s expectations, however, many African American literary artists, including Larsen, wrote novels and poems that presented fuller and more accurate portraits of black men and women.
Larsen harshly criticizes the forces that have shaped the cultures of both black and white society while narrating the story of a woman who, much like herself, sought but never found happiness.Like the work of many other writers of the Harlem Renaissance, Larsen’s work was largely forgotten until she was rediscovered by feminist critics in the 1970s.
The stark result of Helga's travels, however, are revealed by the title: the more you move around a country simultaneously obsessed with and ignorant of its problems with race relations, the deeper you sink into the worst of what it offers.On a personal note, I'm disappointed I didn't hear about this book until age forty, when it is the perfect novel for late high school and early college students to explore the incongruous, complex relationships between whites and blacks in early 20th Century America, while simultaneously examining the idealistic wanderlust of any person's early twenties.
Her thoughts often feel overdetermined and abstract, though in some instances it works well, as in when Larsen is finding a way to make the the political personal, inflecting Helga's thoughts with the philosophy and thinking of black radical politics and activism.
Larsen also does this to emphasise Helga's bourgeois yearnings and the chasm between politics and what she desires; she loves art and solitude and beautiful things, and is often torn between contempt for the communal activities of her people vs the life she thinks she should adore in Copenhagen: "meeting only pale serious faces when she longed for brown laughing ones".
The novel's protagonist, Helga Crane, could not be more oddly reminiscent of myself at the very time in which I encountered this novel: 23 years old, a teacher, feeling completely alien in her surroundings, perplexed at both her own dissatisfaction and the complacency of (what seems like) everyone around her.
Despite my own difficulties, Helga Crane could not find happiness in Chicago, New York, Copenhagen or the American rural South; and so all of us, burdened by our physical markers (whatever they may be) and the facticity of our past (which in these days of infinite record keeping can and does haunt us forever), can easily find ourselves struggling very hard to get away, to rise above the quicksand, and only burying ourselves more quickly and deeply.
But for me, the book was more about a young woman's struggle with deciding who she wanted to be when she grew up.The main character, Helga Crane, is 23 years old at the start of the novel, and doesn't progress beyond her mid-to-late-twenties until nearly the end.She's a teacher in a black school.
So, cut ties with the fiancee, abandon the job on a moment's notice, and fly the coop to New York.She gets a job as an assistant for a wealthy woman of color in New York and is introduced to her new best friend, roommate, and landlord.
Another great short story from Larsen, she manages to capture in these tales the disillusionment and feeling of never truly belonging to those stuck between two worlds and never feeling at home in either. Whether it’s outright “Passing” or the constantly moving, trying vainly to find your place, while sinking further into the “Quicksand” of the race question, these strike home in a very personal way. You can feel the soul crushing pressure of not belonging because you’re not black enough to be black and not white enough be white, forever being in-between two extremes.
Nella Larsen's Quicksand is indeed her Roman a clef.
No need to deny the complicated background of Larsen filtered throughout the pages.
Where Larsen found trouble finding her role in society, her character Helga mirrors the same trouble.
Some may call Helga a free spirit fencing a society determined to tell her, based on her race and sex, her rightful place.
But, Helga, in her series of wrong decisions, ultimately decides to listen.
Wrong.
Wrong.
Wrong.
But, at times, the telling drew a headache, despite a good story.
Does not get off to a great start; the writing is pretty wince-y in the early going:"Helga ducked her head under the covers in a vain attempt to shut out what she knew would fill the pregnant silence - the sharp sarcastic voice of the dormitory matron.
It came."But she gets over it pretty quick.
You can almost watch her learning to write over the course of the book.
It's a dark story and she does a good job of getting into Helga's head and showing us how she can't escape from her restless depression.
Well, it's a book about alienation, depersonalization, and a relentless creeping despondence...so I loved it!This reminded me a lot of Jean Rhys. It's such a shame Larsen's 3rd novel was never published. I know I'd like to read it. It was probably a masterpiece of form and substance. Probably far ahead of its time. Stupid publishers.
Not really my cup of tea. I didn't like the writing - it was difficult to read, sometimes boring. The story itself was not one that grabs the reader. It is difficult to like the characters and even harder to feel some kind of empathy. For all that, I didn't like this book.
Larsen’s nihilism derides both racial stereotypes and racial solidarities. She portrays the stifling conformity and futility of race, uplift, separatism, and religion.
I felt like I was slowing sinking with Helga Crane.
