https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4789747-fashion-is-spinach
The book may be 70 years old but her views on fashion are up to date and still topical. Hawes writes about her experiences as a fashion writer, a copier of French fashion and as a designer herself. She explains how it all works and why it's ultimately all spinach. You only need to look at the fashion industry today to see it is still the same. A real insiders view.
Elizabeth Hawes dispels the myth that all beautiful clothes are made in France and all women want them, while discussing style vs. fashion. Her insight and philosophy are inspiring. Fashion is Spinach explores design, manufacturing and sales through the 20's and the Depression, but the narrative/explanation didn't hold my attention as much as the straight-forward cut-down of fashion trends and her promotion of personal style benefited by well-fitting, well-made clothes. Nothing changes!
While I agree with Hawes that Fashion can be fun, but is mostly silly and a waste of time, the fact remains that it fulfills a social function that's important to a lot of people.I think at this point the clothing market is diversifying enough, and communication between manufacturer and customer has become clear enough, that there are manufacturers and clothing stores that do cater to what multiple groups of women really want and need, by making good quality clothing in a fairly predictable style.
That said, I'll add that I much prefer reading this scanned PDF copy of the original book (2nd ed) from http://archive.org/ because the OCR ebook I bought leaves a lot to be desired.
While PDF book files are quite large, to me, they give as close as possible reading experience of the bound edition as possible.
While OCR occasionally inserts little clip art versions of original illustrations and a few of the first and last pages of the book, the illustrations become disjointed, separated from the text they were meant to enhance or support.
No longer does the text envelop these little drawings.
A surprisingly candid look into the early stages of American couture, Elizabeth Hawes is an underrated treasure for the inspiring business owner or fashion designer. Open and in-depth about finances and the need for the understanding of one's customers, Fashion is Spinach is a pleasure to read.
As I looked them over, I perceived that they had all gotten themselves up in honor of the occasion.One had on a white turtle-necked sweater.
Another wore a red sweater with a small round neck.
And the fourth and the fifth and the sixth had on different colors of the same models.How do you like your sweaters?" I asked."We love them," they responded all at once."Can you think of any improvements that could be made?" I inquired.'No" they asserted firmly.I tried for an hour and a half to make them tell me something they would like to have in the way of a sweater, something new, something different.
She regales us of her determination to work in the fashion houses in Paris and her first jobs as a—no!
Okay, maybe her name isn’t as well remembered as it ought, and clearly her path was never clear of doubt and frustration, but her words are a trustworthy encouragement to persevere.
Even though her words were penned more than 80 years ago, much has changed in the industry—how much clothing is manufactured in USA or Central Europe anymore?
There are some of us who are committed to grace, style, and elegance.
The book begins with author Elizabeth Hawes’ post WWI time in Paris, when she worked copying French fashions to be recreated for the American market.
One of her early 1930’s fashion collections featured dresses named after popular songs of the time, which included the future-standard, “Blue Moon.” After being involved in ‘ripping off’ (no, the term was not yet in use in 1938) French fashion, one of Hawes own early designs for a leather jacket is ripped off by a manufacturer.
With little effort, you can learn what the future holds for Elizabeth Hawes, the author, who, at this time, comes off as an intelligent, confident, and principled woman.
You can't wear it because it has a belt and this year "we are not showing belts." Fashion gets up those perfectly ghastly ideas, such as ac- cessories should match, and proceeds to give you shoes, gloves, bag, and hat all in the same hideous shade of kelly green which he insists is chic this season whether it turns you yellow or not.
Fashion is apt to insist one year that you are nobody if you wear flat heels, and then turn right around and throw thousands of them in your face.
After graduating from Vassar College and Parsons School of Design, she worked in a Paris fashion copy house, and wrote about fashion for The New Yorker.
In 1928, the public's interest in French fashion began to fade, so she opened her design house, Hawes Inc., which originally made expensive custom designs for affluent women.
The outspoken and independent Hawes criticized the New York Fashion industry for creating poorly made, expensive clothing and marketing them as trendy.
Hawes believed in designing classic, well made clothes, instead of caving into designing the latest fashion trends.
Sometimes you happen upon an old gem, dust it off and find that it still sparkles - such is the case with Elizabeth Hawes' autobiography, the wonderfully-titled Fashion is Spinach.
She took Seventh Avenue by storm, but her heart wasn't in mass production - she was an old-school couturier with new-fangled ideas.
Which brings us back to the title of her book, drawn for a famous New Yorker cartoon in which a mother says to her son, "Eat your broccoli, dear." The child ripostes: "I say it's spinach and I say the hell with it!"
This book was first published in 1939, and I regret that despite my 20+ years working in the Garment Center I never heard of it or its author. But that may be precisely the point. Hawes bites the hand that feeds her and skewers Fashion. I can see why the collective industry would want to distance itself from such an iconoclast.But Hawes' observations are still spot-on. The prose is a little dated but the message is clear. Fashion is not style, and we consumers are being sold a bill of goods based on the "authority" of a few.
"The passion which has been created for being chic leads to almost anything, probably including murder."What a little gem! Elizabeth Hawes turns her insider eye onto the spoils of the fashion industry, though her wit and observations create a telling portrait of manufacturing in 20th century America. Just as we expect our technology to outlast the year, Hawes argues for the longevity of a garment, interspersing economic ethics with aesthetics.
I'd never heard 9f Elizabeth Hawes before I read this book, and I immediately searched for more by her. I can't find her book Why Women Cry, or Wenches with Wrenches, which was from the Rosie the Riveter era.
A fascinating insight into the history of fashion and the behind the catwalk maschinations.This digital copy was given to me by the publisher via NetGalley in return for an honest, unbiased review
What a fun look at the world of high fashion in the 20s and 30s! This book is totally worth reading, if only for her distinction between style and fashion.
whoa whoa
