https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/553907.Camp_Concentration
Flowers for Algernon has become a minor classic, and, thanks to the movie, even people who haven't read it often know the story.
It's a great weepie, and I am one of many people who love it.Camp Concentration is Algernon's evil twin.
He's credible both as a character and as an author.The book has flaws (difficult to discuss them without spoiling a fun plot), but all in all I found it deeper and more interesting than Algernon, and I have re-read it several times.
Disch could, and it's odd that more people haven't come across him.
The poet is sent to a secret camp where prisoners are given an experimental drug without their knowledge or consent, a drug that increases intelligence but in less than a year will most certainly cause death.
Below are a number of stinging direct quotes from the pages of Louis Sacchetti's diary that, in effect, comprises Camp Concentration.
Here goes: “The cells are as bony-clean as a dream of Philip Johnson (Grand Central Bathroom), while we, the prisoners, carry about with us the incredible, ineradicable smell of our stale, wasted flesh.” ---------- The irony of much military mentality – make sure all objects are scrubbed antiseptic clean as counterpoint to minds of the dehumanizers that are little more than open cesspools inflicting a life of psychic filth on inmates.
This book didn't grab me straight away -- it isn't like contemporary novels aimed at a wide popular audience, where the first sentence is a hook, or the author begins in the middle of an action scene to get the reader caught up.
A sudden descent or attack.Latria: a theological term used in Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic theology to mean adoration, a reverence directed only to the Holy Trinity.
There are different terms for the veneration of the saints.
Dulia is a Greek term meaning the veneration or homage, different in nature and degree from that given to God, that is paid to the saints.
Savaşa katılmayı reddettiği için hüküm giymiş ve sonunda kendini bu deneyin yapıldığı kampta gözlemci olarak buluyor.
Goethe, Dante, Rilke, Shelley, Van Der Goes, Messiaen gibi çok sayıda yazar, şair, müzisyen ve ressama ve eserlerine gönderme var metinde.
Özellikle birinci kitaptan ikinci kitaba geçerken yazarın sayıklamaları gibi olan bir kısım var.
Anlamsız gibi geliyor bu kısım.
Kitapta ismi geçince merak edip baktığım Messiaen'in bir kaç parçasını dinleyince yazarın bu kısımda neden böyle bir yol izlediğini anladım biraz.
Messiaen'in eserleri için "En iyi müzik bir tür estetik çorbadır" diyor yazar.İyilik, kötülük, güzellik, din, cehennem, deha gibi bir sürü konuda görüşlerini paylaşmış yazar.
Bazı kısımları zorlasa da okumaktan keyif aldığım bir kitap oldu.
When Louis Sacchetti, a poet and war protestor, is moved from his prison to a secret underground camp called Camp Archimedes, he is at first bemused and impressed by the good food yet wary.
But on the big day, nothing goes as expected - least of all for Sacchetti, who finally realises the truth about his role in Camp Archimedes.I do like these kinds of stories - which sounds awfully trite, but I mean that I love apocalyptic, post-apocalyptic, and dystopian fiction, for various reasons.
Also, I generally consider my vocabulary to be pretty damn good, but I don't think I've ever come across so many words I didn't know in one book before.
Camp Concentration details a government experiment where prisoners are injected with a compound which makes them progressively hyper intelligent before the syphilis component in the injection leads them to madness and death.
A poet who had been imprisoned as a conscientious objector to the forever war is asked to chronicle the process.
The inmates stage a play Faustus (by Kit Marlow) and the poet pens a play Auschwitz: a comedy.
The whole enterprise feels like it is staged, people speak in speeches, think Marat/Sade meets Punishment Park.
The Peter Watkins reference is telling, both Camp Concentration and Punishment Park can't escape feeling dated.
I will say this, I think it is kind of brilliant, and definitely better than any other "let's make them smart" sci-fis I've ever read, and the end is at least as good as Amazing Spider-Man #700.""That good?""Okay, I was fucking with you there.
Yeah, I think the ending may be exactly why I am uncomfortable giving this more than three stars right away.""So it was cheesy like a comic book?""As much as it pains me to say it, yes.""But you loved the last Amazing Spider-Man, so why not this?""Ummm ...
I am rather surprised by how much this book is sticking with me.
I wish more people knew of this book.
I would rate 4 stars if considering that but I am choosing to rate solely on how this book made me feel and all of the wonderful imagery Disch forced upon me.
If you can find this book, I strongly recommend taking the time to read it.
The characters are interesting and if you understand even half of the references Disch employs (I admit, there were a few I was oblivious to), then you will more than likely be happy you read this.
Ho dato un indecisissimo 6.
Essendo comparso in Italia negli anni 80 (correggetemi se sbaglio) secondo me non ha avuto nessun genere di successo che forse avrebbe meritato.Devo essere sincero, non è che mi sia piaciuto cosi tanto da osannarlo o da consigliarlo e sono particolarmente felice che fosse breve e scorrevole.La storia in se è buona, niente di troppo originale o sconvolgente, ma che si poteva svolgere in una 50ina di pagine.
If Philip K Dick had written "Flowers for Algernon", it would have come out like this.
Un libro difficile da affrontare, sia per il tema trattato che per il tipo di scrittura.
È curioso che anche l'altro libro di Disch che ho letto 20 anni fa (Le ali della mente) mi abbia lasciato un ricordo simile e la voglia di rileggerlo.Consiglio la lettura di "Campo Archimede", a patto di affrontarlo in un momento in cui il vostro stato mentale sia "ben disposto" a un libro a tratti delirante, spesso oscuro e introspettivo, perennemente angosciante.
Non l'angoscia dell'horror ma quella molto più terrificante di una realtà possibile.
Camp Concentration by Disch and Otto by Tom Ungererhttp://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...A pair made in a sort of hell, I guess, birthday books read back to back.
I don’t understand why Otto is badly written, when the author is obviously capable of writing good text in English.
One could conceive of an argument along the lines of all the innocent victims being in concentrations camps, after all – two words ignored by this children’s book.
Was I supposed to know there were clues and that I was reading a mystery book?
But then, to be fair, I don’t think cleverness is nearly sufficient to produce a good piece of writing.
Una lettura non facile, ma senza dubbio affascinante,Ci sono dentro tutti gli anni settanta del novecento, con tanto di deliri psichedelici, complotti delle big pharma e del governo. l'esercito e la guerra.Molta poesia.Non si può prescindere da questo libro comunque, anche se non è il miglior romanzo di fantascienza, serve comunque a dimostrare come il genere comprenda una tale varietà di stili e tematiche che lo rendono sempre vivo ed attuale.
Someone has something insightful to say about venereal disease and philosophy of mind and his name isn't David Cronenberg! Saints be praised!Seriously though this will leave you starved for science fiction written by a WRITER as opposed to a thinker or a schemer.
This book was incredible, no doubt about it. I'm honestly surprised that it isn't more well-known; it was insightful, deep and thought-provoking, while still offering vivid characters, imagery, vocabulary and scenery. It was very depressing and morbid, but still a fantastic and chillingly interesting book to read through.
Both books have a very inventive plots and a few solid characters but appear to act as a soapbox for Disch to write several chapters of allusion-heavy monologues interspersed with enough plot points to hold a story together.I felt that the plot and big reveal for "Camp Concentration" might be worth the slog, but it was not always an enjoyable experience.
Mordecai manages to prove himself to be a powerful, insightful, and multifaceted character by the end, but as usual, the female character is defined strictly by her sexual activity - lack or excess.
Thomas Disch's Camp Concentration, published in 1967, is the most erudite work of speculative fiction I've ever read, beating out even the various books and short stories that I've read by Gene Wolfe.
Joseph Bottum wrote of him quite fondly for The Weekly Standard, and an article in the Boston Review praised in his first book, 334.Camp Concentration is set in a nightmare America, where President McNamara has embroiled the United States in another Vietnam-style war.
The book is the journal of an imprisoned conscientious objector who finds himself stuck in a secret military human enhancement project.
I am, perhaps, prejudiced (and maybe still in shock).
Tom was a friend.
I am glad I didn't read his SF, though, while he was still around: I would have proved a blathering fanboy and an unworthwhile conversationalist.I have encountered many writers who possess the twisted, wild skills of imagination germane to speculative fiction, but I have rarely seen them execute their visions with such facility.
Tom's prose is knife sharp, and allusions to Dante, Marlowe, Rilke, Goethe, et al.
abound (they hang like ripe fruit on the low branches—they don't slow the narrative down a bit).
In summary, I liked this book.
If you like books about devils and poets and alchemy, you would probably like it too.
Written in 1968, I know the book is a reflection on America's involvement in Vietnam but reading it in 2018, I felt like it is talking directly about things that are happening now.
We experience the story completely through the journal entries of an imprisoned poet and war protester.
That is a tall order for an author to fulfill, and part of the thrill of reading this book is watching Disch manage the character with aplomb.
I have a feeling this is one of those books that is only going to become more popular as the decades go by.
Of course, since he knows that his journal is being read by the camp authorities, likely he is being deliberately obtuse.The main themes of the novel appeared to be the interplay between genius & madness and how people reconcile themselves to death.
Whether madness or genius is predominant in our narrator, it is focused on his internal life and channelled into writing fiction.
The same appears largely true of the other prisoners, although our narrator clearly takes relatively little interest in other people much of the time.
Robert MacNamara is mentioned frequently, and Disch assumes that his readers will know what Dwight Eisenhower looked like.
There are only a handful of internees, and they all seem like nice enough fellows although a couple of them a clearly ill.Sachetti's role at the camp, according to Haast, the ex-military man with a dubious record and a mystical streak who runs the place, is to simply record what he observes.
Brillliant visionaries surround Sachetti, but each has only a few months to live.The military hopes their lab rats will come up with brilliant weapons, but they tend more toward alchemical experiments and arcane theological discussions.
La novela en realidad es un diario, el del preso Sacchetti, que ha sido coaccionado para que cuente cómo se están desenvolviendo el resto de presos en esta particular prisión.
La descripción de la prisión es sucinta y podría haber sido algo más detallada, al igual que la parte de ucronía de la historia (el que los Estados Unidos continúen la Guerra Fría) también podría haber sido mejor explicada, en lugar del par de pinceladas que nos suministra el autor.
It’s hard to put into words why these two sentences filled me with despair reading this book, but let me try.
Second, I really can’t believe that Louis, the narrator and through whose eyes we see this arrogant and at times pretentious mess, looks at a man puking and immediately thinks of the clean, geometric lines into which the man is horking.
Louis is a writer though, and as a result, he thinks very writerly things.
He is a hammy stage actor on paper and it hurts reading his thoughts and then thinking about the implications of those thoughts.
“In summary: I like this book, and I think anybody who likes books about painters and devils would like it too.”(pg.83).
This starts out like Kafka rewriting Flowers of Algernon with hints of the Prisoner (which Disch wrote a novel for) before becoming a surreal dreamscape and then winding into an ,I thought, satisfying twist.
A rich text filled with allusions to Dostoevsky’s and Genet’s prison novels and especially Mann’s Dr. Faustus (my favorite of his books for some reason.).
A more focused novel than 334, if less ambitious as that novel reads like a soap opera written by Ballard with all the good and bad that that implies.
This was not one of my favorite reads.
Well written, but did not work for me.
The novel felt very stilted in the writing and never really made sense to me.
It was a very short novel that felt much longer in reading.
Part of the problem for me is that this is a very old novel and it did not age particularity well.
This is a thinking novel and with dialogue carrying on the weight to get across the points.
Yet, I did not follow the thinking all them much.
Once again, it is well written and you may like it.
Freaky sci fi book. Government prisoners in a secret camp are given a drug derived from syphilis. They die from it, but on the way become geniuses. Scary. Intense.
This topic is important to me in part because of my familiarity with Vladimir Nabokov's postmodern novel Pale Fire for which the issue is paramount, but while thinking about that book my view of the status of other narratives was called into question.
I mention this because Camp Concentration is told in the first person as the journal of Louis Sacchetti, poet and draft resistor (this is the 1970s), and the question of its reliability is just as important as in Nabokov's meta-fictional work.
Disch's book mentions a female composer named Adrienne Leverkuhn.Sacchetti's journal tells a horrific story, but how much can we believe when it (apparently) has been through the prison censors.
Thomas Disch was never as fashionable (for want of a better word) within the science fiction community as he deserved, and at the time of first publication Camp Concentration was perhaps (to take a very long view of things) outplayed by Daniel Keyes’s slightly more reader-friendly novel Flowers for Algernon which had been published some months earlier, explores the same theme of artificially enhanced intelligence, is hard-hitting in its own way but then is also, undeniably, outstripped by Disch’s combination of erudition, creativity and political cynicism.
Let's see how it holds up.Pretty well, actually.
There's some question how much the author is faithfully writing from the point of view of a self-indulgent literary figure and how much the author is actually indulging in being a self-indulgent literary figure.
It's an ingenious view of dystopia that uses all the tricks in the canon - including Joycean babble - to a definite purpose.
What's dated (at least from the point of view of the Bush Administration) is not the dystopia of the protagonist's environment, but the literary preciosity of the protag himself.
I suspect people will think I give this "only" 3 stars because I don't like Disch's "strong language" that he uses against the Establishment.
I admit - I do not adore the snarling vitriolic writing from a number of authors.But I grew up reading Nietzsche and Voltaire and Sade and since have read Celine and bits of Burroughs.
Now it just seems rabid, not shocking.When Disch is on - the prose is erudite and succinct, making the work great.
Now, Disch is very transparent - along with all of his issues and troubles.
For fans of Bukowski and Vonnegut and Burroughs.
