https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24113.G_del_Escher_Bach
How do we get something as complex as human consciousness out of something as simple and well-understood as a neuron?The answer Hofstadter likes is that the brain operates on many different interacting levels, and that conscious thought is a product of the complex interaction between all these levels.
Overall, this approach is very good at getting you to understand the complicated ideas Hofstadter is getting at.
But if you read this review and you get the feeling you probably won't like this book, you're probably right.
A simple description of a canon would be a theme that played against itself, such as in “Row, Row, Row Your Boat.” J.S. Bach - The Musical Offering:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQWsOG...Escher’s visual endless loops, Gödel’s incomplete self-referential theorem, and Bach’s canons and fugues in varying levels help to illustrate the characteristics of consciousness.
This idea is also compared to theorems and nontheorems, or provability and nonprovability, nonprovability being key to the Strange Loops that is at the core of this book.The chapter Figure and Ground starts with a set of rules for typographical operations which were used in the MU-puzzle and the pq-system, which is the mechanical process of the Turing machine, the parent of what we now know as computer intelligence.
There's a lot of other fun stuff as well, but it's the Gödel proof that's the core of the book, and if that doesn't turn you on then you aren't really going to think GEB is worth the effort.
Personally, I would say that this is one of the most amazing things ever.
there are mathematical theorems that are true, but which you can't prove.
And not only can you can prove that that is so, you can even construct examples of such theorems!
Vroom!PS I remember, not long after GEB came out, leafing through an interview with Sylvester Stallone.
It would be like recommending large doses of LSD to everyone: some small minority will find the experience invaluably enlightening, but for most people it's just going to melt their brain.While you do not need to be a professional mathematician to appreciate this, you really have to like math a lot.
If, during the course of slapping said knee, all the pens fell out of your pocket protector and landed scattered across the piece of paper you were using to make Venn diagrams to help you decide what to have for breakfast, that, of course, is even better.If you really like math, then this is going to be one of the best books you've ever read.
Hofstadter makes some fascinating observations about emergent properties (such as intelligence) and diverts us into the extremely heavy mathematics of Godel via the self referencing systems that are Bach's fugues and Escher's 'optical illusion' style artwork.Before too many chapters have passed though you'll be firmly in number theory land, albeit doled out as painlessly as is possible with such stuff, leavened with imagined philosophical debates between ancient Greeks and other proxies.
I seem to remember Achilles spends a lot of time talking to a tortoise...Number theory requires no great resource of mathematical knowledge - just an extremely agile and open mind.
I'm as likely to read this as a book on string theory.
Please don't tell me I have read a book on string theory, I'm trying to forget the whole sordid story.) But. I hope you like this.A friend of mine established The Harvester Press in the 1970s.
He did it on a wing and a prayer, he was a young teaching academic who couldn't find in print the old literary books he wanted to use as texts and so he set about publishing them.
As he was describing it, John interrupted with 'Godel, Escher, Bach I presume?' Evidently Hofstadter had gotten lucky and had on loan a very early word processor.
But the fugue is used as a metaphor for layers of brain activity, thoughts, superimposed over the “hardware” of the brain, the neurons.In fact, though I would recommend starting at the beginning of the book, I suppose one might begin anywhere and read through and back again, a'la Finnegan's Wake.
I won't tell anyone.The idea of nested hierarchies is central to the understanding of what makes human intelligence different from machine intelligence.
I'm not convinced that Hofstadter was fully convinced that there will ever be a machine so “intelligent” as to completely mirror human thought.And, one last time, it doesn't matter.This book has set me to thinking, thinking hard, about what it means to be human.
Gödel’s incompleteness theorem, which states that all consistent axiomatic formulations of number theory include undecidable propositions, is certainly a large part of what made the book so fascinating and addictive.
My personal favorite part, math-wise (other than Gödel’s insanity of course), was Cantor’s Diagonal Argument.
Just think of the all the real numbers contained between 0 and 1, for instance: there is an infinite universe contained therein.
The field of real numbers is just so badass and beautiful.Cons: The book was a bit repetitive at times, and much more long-winded than it needed to be.
What makes it more than a grab bag is Hofstadter’s setting side-by-side a fairly diverse set of topics and tracing out homologies and isomorphisms and analogies all which ought to culminate in shedding some light on the nature of consciousness and the prospect of Artificial Intelligence.So but, what is made clear, if the prospect of AI is not, is that metafiction is not just a bunch of intellectual masturbation but is a fictioning which takes real things, ie, metamathematical structures, and uses them in structuring a story or fixing them into narrative metaphors.
The book attempts to put forward the outline of a theory of intelligence, by drawing from an incredibly wide array of disciplines - not just the three (mathematics, art and music), which are implied by the title – but also logical systems, computer science, genetics (there are really too many to list) as well as a considerable amount of literary flair.The core argument is speculative, and more philosophical than scientific.
You will be required to think about the problems presented, and work to understand and use the complex logical systems that have been created, or you will quickly lose the thread of the argument.
start here--->  Bach’s                   B.:    Fug                 G.E.       es&                st!           Es               mu              ch              you               er             _it                ’s_W            ad                    or           Re       pln.no_xar;A   |           d.    ncometZe’sodaPchil          ia--cY&I               les&Mr_       -- Br                       |  Tu      eN  _n                       ld  rt    IsT   de                       &    oi   Ns     lo                       Gö   se.  Co      _G                       ed    Th  n.      al                      s’l     er io       nr                     hT       ’eit         et                    oe       reng          E_                 mer        L_Co           nA              moc_         og_n            .irim        nib            cima            ytaliS      de              &QuH                  \  htiw              iu sv                 csorueN             sen  IA          G&ecnei \                 ;  .sna&N_o_scene       fleS&spooL_egnartS     ōKEZta,it         __         rd         ue         ot
  This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.

It is definitely not a great example of conciseness (with its sprawling 800 pages), and not always rigorous (for example, in its treatment of some aspects of mathematical logic and Godel's incompleteness theorems), and also occasionally a bit loose with the terminology; however this is more than compensated by the peculiar and exhilarating way with which the many interconnections and analogies between different disciplines and perspectives are illuminated by the author in his wondrous and sprawling synthesis, architecturally beautifully even if not always based on completely sound foundations.What is also peculiar with this book is that, while the author does not manage to provide very convincing support to his overall thesis about the ultimate nature of intelligence in self-conscious entities, this does not really matter: what matters, in this book, is not so much the ultimate destination, but the exhilarating intellectual journey that the courageous author bestows on the reader willing to follow him in this adventure: there are so many themes, so many original insights, so many side topics, so many multi-layered threads that it is simply impossible to render justice to this book within the confines of a GR review.
Hofstadter argues, using the pictures of Escher, the music of Bach and the mathematical formulas of Godel, that for those inside a system of any kind, be it music, art or mathematics, you can never prove everything which is true about the system!
He does this in the most entertaining way, through dialogues and examples that lead even a Rabbit like me to the obvious conclusion.Dante: it may be obvious to Mr. Hofstadter, and even to you, but to me, there may be an entirely different conclusion from the same information.
GEB reads like a collection of sparks, produced when the mind is working at its primed, relaxed, hyper-aware and associative best.
While it requires the reader to think, process, and invest effort in understanding his notations and work through the concepts, it’s written so that a creative young person with basic grounding in math could read through the chapters and be occasionally stumped, but mostly richly rewarded and inspired.
I could not think of a more ideal book for a parent/ mentor to go over carefully with a growing child.
Less flourish, more focus. That would have been a better braid.
This is probably going to be an unpopular thing to say, but I truly think Hofstadter does a better job of explaining, engaging with, and articulating his project in IAASL- which has the added benefit of being a third the size of GEB.
I like Hofstadter, just like I like Bishop Berkeley (love him, actually) and Plato and Galileo, but I Hate With A Capital H that they employ dialogues to communicate their thoughts.
Whereas in IAASL, I got to know Hofstadter very, very well.
I was wondering if you could help me review this book that I am reading.the Meta-Enlightened one: With pleasure but unfortunately over here we tend to divide mental labour between ourselves.
Anyway, I'm afraid I have only read one half of your book, I better ask my Meta-Enlightened SELF!-the Meta-Enlightened one closes his eyes and awaits the rise of his Meta-Enlightened SELF among the colorful haze-Meta-Enlightened SELF: You summoned me?the Meta-Enlightened one: Yes!
just give me half a moment to ask my Meta-Enlightened SELF!-the Meta-Enlightened SELF closes his eyes and awaits the rise of his Meta-Enlightened SELF among the colorful haze-Meta-Enlightened SELF-Enlightened Life Force: You Summoned me?Meta-Enlightened SELF: Yes!
Hofstadter(Original Review, 1980-09-24)Before we ask "Are dolphins intelligent?" we must ask "What is intelligence?" Doug Hofstadter, in his book "Gödel, Escher, Bach: The Eternal Golden Braid", presents a way of looking at intelligence that is not as restrictive as most current definitions.
(I highly recommend this book to anyone, by the way.
It is published by Basic Books in hardback, and is worth whatever you may pay for it.) He makes a good argument for the claim that intelligence is a consequence of the complexity of organization of the nervous system of an organism.
I was struggling along through it in a workman like fashion, trying to follow his arguments (which to me often seemed like so much dribble and unnecessary obfuscation and nothing like a fun puzzle), when I got really stuck and so I went to the MIT website and started reading the class notes on this book.
Actually, just read Neil Stephenson period, as between his various work he manages to do everything Hofstadter attempts only better.
Deep, heavy, at times extremely fun.
Took me five years to read it.And so somewhat in the spirit of the text:GEB is like this incredibly attractive, incredibly smart, incredibly funny/witty woman that you meet through a friend.
The early part of the relationship is a little tentative—what with both of you trying to get a feel for each other, and both of you not quite knowing what to make of each other—but the time you spend together is lots and lots of fun.
And after a little while, you're both very comfortable with each other and the time passes quickly.
And like a coward you walked away.
After an entire tome about the workings of the mind and what it means to be intelligent, you'd think the author would be more self-aware by the end of the book than to say, "indirect self-reference is my favorite topic".No, Mr. Hofstadter, blatant self-reference is your favorite topic.I'm notoriously bad at distancing the creation from the creator, so perhaps I was biased from the start -- reading the 20th anniversary intro was like listening to a narcissist who insists he's modest.
I'd love to see his reaction now that so many of his predictions have proven false (a topic not touched on in the 20th anniversary intro).
Pretentious crap.
Hofstadter is about as interesting and insightful as a 14-year-old stoner who got a hold of some of his dad's reference books.
The whole thing is a massive (and I do mean that literally) waste of time, though since it does have a knack for making dumb people feel smart, it will undoubtedly appeal to the xkcd crowd.Even if none of them will ever actually finish the whole thing.
(Many concepts are elucidated as comedic dialogues between characters borrowed from fellow author and logician Lewis Carroll or others, and there are many fascinating illustrations.) Many years of operating in the stratosphere of mathematics have made the author perhaps a little too playful in his sense of how many meta-levels a book or argument should contain, but he reiterates the thesis from enough angles that you can skip off the surface of a few pages if you find your brain exploding.GEB has the potential to put your beliefs about the nature of consciousness and life on a much sounder, but more challenging intellectual footing, and it's a great distillation of the ferment but ever increasing levels of profundity experienced in theoretical science since the 1950s - when we found ourselves with power to explain phenomena we were confident we could leave to the spiritual even post - Enlightenment, just as Godel encountered our first (?) nonnegotiable limit on human knowledge.
This book is a must read or at least must selectively skim for anyone interested in intelligence. Some of the ideas regarding intelligence and how it should be implemented are perhaps slightly outdated (you would see much more statistical reasoning if you asked experts today), which is largely absent in "old AI" approaches to intelligence.
Topics covered: DNA and RNA replication, Artificial Intelligence, Zen Buddism, Eschers artwork, Computer programming, Bachs fugues, a whole host of literary paradoxes and critical thinking exercises wow fun!
He uses Lewis Carols interaction between Achilles and the Tortoise to help make mental connections for those of us who are literary minded (thank you!) and artwork for those of us who are visually minded.
And then long strands of proofs in, yes you guessed it, mathematical formulas and the like as the bulk of the work.
It is one of the fun things about math that doesn't often duplicate itself in other portions of life.
I have always wanted to be brilliant.
So this was the book I chose to make myself brilliant.
Not super.
Not smart.
Not nerdy.
Just brilliant.Alas, it didn't work.
It's taken me years (yes, literally years) to get through this tome.
If you asked me what it is all about, I couldn't tell you, Alfie.
I remain blitheringly stupid.
That's why they make British baking shows, for dunces such as I.Tough read.
This should be part of a Marines-type training course for readers.
Much admiration for those who understand whatever the bloody hell it's telling you.Book Season = Year Round (still lost)
It's quite impenetrable, but if you can hang in there, you can learn a lot about a lot of seemingly unrelated things. I don't know why mathematicians feel like they have to write like it's 1885. Hofstadter himself encourages you to just open the book at random, read a few pages, skip around, look at the pictures, listen to some Bach, etc, and that certainly helped me get a foothold.
However, the point is that every part of the book—every obscure analogy, every puzzling metaphor—makes sense, in a certain sense.In this vein, it is interesting to read Hofstadter's justification for including the Incompleteness Theorems in his book: I think that the process of coming to understand Gödel's proof, with its construction involving arbitrary codes, complex isomorphisms, high and low levels of interpretation, and the capacity for self-mirroring, may inject some rich undercurrents and flavors into one's set of images about symbols and symbol processing, which may deepen one's intuition for the relationship between mental structures on different levels.
The first is a series of comedic dialogues in which characters created by Lewis Carrol engage in friendly battles of wit and skill, or just conversations, each dialogue being modeled after music by Johann Sebastian Bach.
It is the most joyously creative written work I have ever encountered, overflowing with wit and wisdom.
This can be off-putting for those without inclanations towards logic or math.2.
This is an epic book that covers an insane amount of ground.
While Hofstadter covers that ground with astonishing clarity, it is still a long and winding journey, and requires quite a commitment.
