https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4507.Sickened
Eventually she did remarry to someone who was close to me and although his mother disapproved saying, "She's tried all the men in the community but no-one wants to take her on with all her sick children, so why you?"Her eldest son has several neurological disorders, Crone's disease, ADHD and Tourettes.
This lot enabled the mother to spend a lot of time taking the kids to the doctors and hospital and needing a whole kitchen cabinet full of pills.
Her husband even had to have a minor operation for something or other.When her daughter turned 18 she got her a gastric bypass, persuaded the doctor it was the only possible thing that would help the girl.
The entire time I read this book, I was screaming in my head.
Giving the riot act to the doctors to the father to the social workers that turned a blind eye.
I was just as bewildered and pleading as Julie as, watching the doctors slice her open when nothing was wrong.
I can remember countless times, my eyes screamed volumes that no one wanted to hear or understand.
And how everyone turns away, or shakes their head in disagreement but not one single adult will stand up for you.
But if you've read it you might know what I'm talking about here.Unfortunately, Julie Gregory's story is not especially compelling.
It's very much "here's a list of things that happened - doctor's appointments, child abuse, tests, countless medications." The drama with her parents read more like episode of Jerry Springer.
I understand her relationship with her parents directly tied into the medical side of things, but the crazy drama definitely overshadowed Julie's experiences with Munchhausen's by Proxy.The language was so...over the top I guess is the best word?
In an era where we've recently been faced with headline stories of kids like Hannah Milbrandt and Gypsy Rose Blanchard, used as ploys to get sympathy, money and attention for their mothers, Sickened shouldn't be all that surprising, yet it is - the fact that a parent would not only do this to a child but also go to such efforts to hide it, that's a whole new level of disturbing.
While this book doesn't give a huge deal of insight into the mother's reasoning, it does look at munchausen through a child's eyes and also what might've led to the attention-seeking behavior and abuse.
Interesting novel written by a victim of Munchausen by Proxy.
I've seen Munchausen in my practice and it is an ugly disease, and very diffcult at times to detect.
I'm not surprised the abuse Ms. Gregory suffered went on as long as it did, because of how sneaky and insidious the disease is.
She does an admirable job writing about the abuse without becoming maudlin or playing for sympathy.
It is tragic that abuse is continued in families through this horrific illness and children are miserable and die because of it.
Though Munchausen's by Proxy is a terrible disorder that causes parents to inflict grievous pain and suffering upon their trusting and powerless children, I simply was not impressed with this book.
"The Glass Castle" -- and some are so deliciously horrifying I couldn't stop reading --e.g.
"Running with Scissors" -- but "Sickened" was redundant and padded with too many lame metaphors and not terribly compelling a read.
I did read to the end because I was curious about the fate of the family, but could not identify with any of the characters.
MBP could be presented in many ways… such as the Pine Sol scene from above or say, poisoning your child with excessive amounts of salt or um….tainting your child’s urine with your own blood… In Julie Gregory’s case it included not feeding your child and then bringing them to the doctor saying that they are listless and weak (duh) or convincing the child that something is wrong with their heart and introducing doctor upon doctor until the mother (it’s usually a female caretaker) finds a doctor willing to run a battery of invasive tests to determine the problem and then screaming at the doctor when he refuses to do open heart surgery on the kid.
Most of the time I was reading it I felt just as the title says, sickened.
This girl went through such terrible, terrible situations as a child, her mother actually succeeding in making her, along with many, many doctors and hospitals, believe she was truly sick and is still dealing with the after effects to this day.
I was literally sickened the whole time reading this and I'm not sure she could have ever came up with a better title for this book.
Her mother had Munchausen by Proxy, a mental disorder that causes someone to seek attention by inflicting medical symptoms on a dependent.
Throughout her childhood, Julie was told that she was sick.
She was starved, beaten, and taken out of school for doctor's visits and hospital stays.
Julie was punished if she didn't go along with the symptoms her mother told the doctors she had.
This is Julie's story of her childhood and how she finally broke free.Readalike suggestions: For more memoirs of child abuse or mental illness, suggest "A Child Called It" by Dave Pelzer, "Wasted" by Marya Hornbacher, or even "Prozac Nation" by Elizabeth Wurtzel.
This book was a little disappointing. More than following the issues of Munchausen by Proxy, the author reveals more about the emotional and physical abuse her mother and father. I was expecting more detail (and I guess more Munchausen issues) then was given.
Wow this book was disturbing, yet I was unable to put it down.
It a memoir of a childhood lived with a muchausen by Proxy mom.
Julie was carted to doctor after doctor, made sick with pills, all sorts of terrible things.
A very good book, one that I think more people should read, specially hospital/doctor staff.
It really gives a deep look into what a person with muchausen by proxy is like, and what it is like to be the child the mother is making sick.
I was left wondering if Julie was able to get tina out of the house.
Great and disturbing read.
"My body, sliced, diced, and probed away from me for nothing."
This is an interesting personal account of a Munchausen by Proxy survivor.
As a "survivor" book, it's okay, though the topic itself (Munchausen) is somewhat more interesting than the writer and I don't mean that in a belittling or disrespectful way.Much of the narrative was repetitive and felt bulky thanks to the author's penchant for metaphors, some that worked better than others.Personally, I wish Ms. Gregory had delved further into her mother and father's histories (she gives some background, but I wanted more).
I would have also appreciated more discussion of the disorder (stats, case histories, causes, treatments...etc).
This disturbing memoir is the account of a mother who intentionally invented symptoms and illness for her daughter to gain attention from medical professionals.
This is known as Munchausen by Proxy Syndrome.
The best pop culture example is the little girl in the Sixth Sense (Mischa Barton pre-O.C. days).
I learned a lot about this syndrome from a short medical introduction; the rest of the book is Julie Gregory’s story.
I feel more informed after reading this but her story truly is horrifying in many aspects and a little depressing.
An excellent book to read for those with a need to know and understand this complex illness. For others use your own judgement. This is a very disturbing illness that really created a lot of attention about 10 years ago in the mental health and medical field. 'Sickened' is a very well written page turner, but it is a true story...no fiction here.
I am probably the only human being on the planet that hated Pelzer's The Lost Boy, for various reasons including what I thought of as terrible writing; and unfortunately, this book reminded me a little too much of that one, and that ruined some of the experience for me.On the other hand, I think Gregory exposes a kind of abuse that I think deserves wider attention, and that's a good thing.
I think that part of her life deserves another book on its own.
Munchausen by proxy (MBP) was not the worst of the abuse that this writer suffered as a girl; the other physical abuse and especially the emotional abuse stuck me the most.
The brutality of the facts of this story reminded me a bit of one of my favorite books: Blackbird by Jennifer Lauck.
What was especially disturbing and sickening for me was having to not only absorb Julie’s story, but those of her brother, the foster kids, the elderly men, and even her father, and even her mother.
A powerful memoir about a young woman's messed childhood dealing with Munchausen by Proxy (MPB) at the hands of her mother.
Prior to this book I had never heard of MPB, but after reading this sordid tell all, I definitely have a grasp for how horrible it is.
Basically a parent or other figure convinces you that our sick and you need to go to doctor to doctor to find out what is wrong with you.
Her parents were also mean, abusive, belligerent, and uncaring.
I had to read this for a class in child abuse and neglect. Very disturbing, yet impossible to put down. It's a miracle the author is alive to tell her story.
Monsters should never, ever be called "Mum" or "Dad".I really don't want to go into this too deeply because I found it to be a distressing read.
The fact that Julie not only survived, but was able to tell her story is testament to her bravery.
A condition where a caregiver or spouse fabricates, exaggerates, or induces mental or physical health problems in those who are in their care, with the primary motive of gaining attention or sympathy from others.
I'm glad I read it though, as horrific as it is, because I want to wing my mental love to Julie and tell her what a remarkable human being she is.
READER DISCRETION IS ADVISED!!A very disturbing story about one child's experience growing up under the care of her mothers affliction with Munchauser by proxy. I applaud the author for speaking out and sharing her explicit upbringing. I had trouble reading the details, and can only imagine the authors realities.
Sickened is the autobiograpy of a woman who fell victim of her mother who suffered from the psychological disorder, Munchausen's by proxy, and her journey to as "normal" a life as possible.
I experienced a fair amount of damaging shit in my childhood and it's amazing how the smallest things are what I recall, my stomach churning in knots - days where dad had had enough of being as patient as a saint with mum's bullshit and finally snapped, thumping his hand on a wall making a clock fall down and smash.
Gregory's prose was a little overblown and dramatic at times, she shifted tenses frequently and the last 30 pages or so dragged on without much structure but all in all, it was an interesting account of a childhood living with a MbP mother.
The mom takes her to the doctor and tells the doctor all these simptoms she says her daughter has.
The weird thing is that her daughter is not sick her mom is just making it up.
Her mom takes her to a hospital where the doctor runs all these heart test because she says her daughter has a heart condition.
Her parents got all the insurence money and her mom went to Mexico with the guy who lent them the trailer...when she came back she told Julie that her husband and planed to burned down the house and that he killed her dog ..
Munchausen syndrome is when you make yourself sick to get attention.
But this is the third memoir that I've read now, and I don't think that I like this genre.
Jessop's memoir had a story arc, there was rising tension and promises to the plot, but I don't find that here.
It is a disturbing book, which is probably what the author was aiming for, now I know how this disease might play out in my students, and to watch for it, but just when the story was getting interesting, "how is she going to deal with her mother?", the story stopped.
Gregory gives a candid and wise account of the manipulation and emotional abuse inherent in her mother's control and insightfully decodes the psychological ramifications of her victimization.
And though I didn't get the sense that her aim was to impose any trite lessons in existentialism, you come to know that she is certainly stronger for all she has endured by the end of her story.
As of 2003 when first published, she was bravely pursuing charges against her mother in an effort to remove from her custody the quasi-/common law adopted daughter that she'd claimed as her next victim.
I'm quite interested to know what became of that.
This is an amazing memoir, and I call it amazing because it never occurred to me that there were families such as Julie Gregory's.
I'd heard of Munchausen by Proxy, but J.
Gregory's family--not only her mother, but her father and grandparents--are all insane.
Her family's lifestyle, while she was growing up, is so far out of the mainstream, that it's incredible that Julie Gregory grew up to be a functioning (and law-abiding)adult.
It's a testiment to her strength and intelligence that Ms. Gregory was able to gain such perspective about what happened during her childhood, and to seek emotional freedom from it.
Cât de mult am așteptat ca autoarea să facă o schimbare, dar lectura din păcate nu m-a „captivat” pe cât mă așteptam.Atunci când vezi că propria ta mamă se bucură când ești bolnavă, încearcă să facă să fii bolnavă, atunci îți dai seama că ceva e în neregulă. Julie, știai că ceva nu se leagă, că totul e nenormal, dar în loc să strigi, să te zbați ca toți să știe prin ce treci, ai tăcut. Ai tăcut și cu ce te-ai ales? Cu spirite care te vor bântuie întreaga viață. Strigă! Luptă! Fă ceva!
An easy read about a very serious subject. Got really touched by Julies story.
(originally reviewed at  elphareads.tumblr.com )In college I was a psych major with a focus in abnormal psychology. My final project was about traumatic childhood experiences and the comorbidity with violence later in life, if that gives you an idea of what I spent my time researching back in the day. One disorder that always gave me a serious case of the willies was Munchausen By Proxy. If you have been privy to a LAW AND ORDER marathon, a Lifetime Movie, or even THE SIXTH SENSE in your time, y
I stumbled upon a book called SICKENED: THE MEMORI OF A MUNCHAUSEN BY PROXY CHILDHOOD by Julie Gregory.
As Julie got older she realized that there was something very wrong with all the medical trips, and as she dives into her history she discovers Munchausen’s By Proxy, a disorder that victimizes children at the whims of a attention starved parent.Woof, this was a hard one to ready.
I’m also glad that Gregory was comfortable in sharing her story after living through such a hard and awful childhood.
