https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94597.The_Caucasian_Chalk_Circle
Εσωτερικά του κύκλου με την κιμωλία υπάρχουν κρυμμένα ένοχα κοινωνικοπολιτικά στοιχεία που συνυπάρχουν σε όλο τον κόσμο και είναι εκ διαμέτρου αντίθετα.
Σε μια χώρα μακρινή υπήρχε ένας σπουδαίος βασιλιάς και μια αξιοθαύμαστη βασίλισσα που κυβερνούσαν το λαό μέσα απο ένα αμύθητου πλούτου παλάτι.
Μια υπηρέτρια σώζει το μωρό και με κίνδυνο της ζωής της το κουβαλά μαζί της σε διάφορα μέρη που αναζητά ασφάλεια και τροφή.
Όταν τελειώνει ο πόλεμος, η "πολύπαθη" βασίλισσα αναζητά το ξεχασμένο της παιδί και την περιουσία που του αναλογεί ως νόμιμου κληρονόμου.
Είναι ένας περιστασιακός δικαστής που παλεύει ενάντια στο άδικο και τις πουλημένες και εκφυλισμένες ζωές.
Η μητρική αγάπη είναι αυτή που προκύπτει από τη διαδικασία της γέννας ή μπορεί να ναι και η αγάπη που προκύπτει από την ανάγκη να μοιραστεί περίσσια αγάπης σε ένα παιδί από μια ξένη γυναίκα? Λιτό κι απέριττο αλλά με πολύ κοινωνικό, ιστορικό και πολιτικό βάθος. Συνιστάται ανεπιφύλακτα!
The title refers to the Chinese story of a judge placing a child in a chalked circle and the two women claiming to be the mother are asked to remove the child, the nominal reason being that only the true parent could extricate the young one.
As the reasoning goes the judge awards the child to the woman who didn't attempt to remove the child for fear of harming it.
This is replicated by Brecht with certain human caveats about the stewards of justice and the greasing of palms.
Ο Μπρέχτ ξαναγράφει το μύθο του βασιλιά Σολομώντα, μόνο που αυτός το κάνει σωστά ! Το βιβλίο είναι μικρό , όμως οι χαρακτήρες έχουν διάσταση και όγκο , και φυσικά ο Μπρέχτ δεν δειλιάζει να κάνει κοινωνική κριτική για την οικονομική ανισότητα αλλά και τους θρησκευτικούς πολέμους. Το μήνυμα της μητρικής αγάπης διαρκώς παρών σε αυτό το διαχρονικό αριστούργημα. Ίσως η θεατρική του έκδοση να μου αρέσει ακόμα περισσότερο.
What I learnt from this book: rich people suck, poor people suck, war sucks, society sucks, socialism isn't bad and fruit farms are the future.
Η ιστορία του βασιλιά Σολομώντα και των 2 γυναικων τοποθετημένη στην περίοδο του τριαντακονταετή πολέμου και δοσμένη αριστοτεχνικά απο τον Μπρεχτ... Το βιβλίο περιλαμβάνει και μια διασκεδαστική ιστορία "Τραυματισμένος Σωκράτης"!!
Απλό, μεστό, λιτό, κατανοητό, αριστούργημα!!
This is another one I performed during my years as a drama geek. To be honest, I think I was too young to appreciate Brecht's work properly.You have to comprehend symbolism, or this all ends up kind of dull. The whole story of the mums fighting over the kids is interesting but short, while the rest of the play is a comment on society.I'd have to go back to give a worthy review, but it honestly just didn't interest me enough.
Bertolt Brecht considered himself to be a great author which is not terribly surprising as most people are at least partially self-delusion.
As a result he produced a number of highly entertaining plays that had audiences laughing in the four corners of the world.The Caucasian Chalk Circle is an amusing fairy tale set in the Georgian Caucasus about the judgements rendered by the village idiot that an invading army has installed as a magistrate as a joke.
If properly staged, the Caucasian Chalk Circle is extremely funny and offers a great evening at the theatre.
Tackling a Brecht script takes a lot of patience and time! His writing is complex and fluid and yet the embedded symbolism takes time to unravel and reflect on! This is one play I would love to see on the stage!
من عشق برشت هستم دربست! از ابتدای آشنایی تا همین الان:)
This book is really hard to understand because the language of this book is really complicate. But after reading this book twice it made this book a lot easier to understand. This book uses really hard words and some words are not even in English. I really enjoy the prologue. I really like how it foreshadows the story.
Brecht's ideas are abstract and they kept me wondering about the fairy-tale like quality.
Grusha, a servant working for a snobbish aristocratic woman (Natella), cares for the child (Michael) who Natella left behind.
Brecht's ideas intrigued me here.
Grusha and Natella are asked to pull at him to see who is the real mother.
Grusha is the true mother because she could not bear to hurt the child she raised and cared for.
This play is not about emotions.
The play was originally written in German and it premiered in the United States in 1948.
Perhaps the best Brecht play I have read so far (though they have all been good). There is something particularly engaging about the two main characters, Grusha and Azdak. Although the message of the play is supposedly very straightforwardly "Socialist" I always feel that Brecht is never quite so obviously simple as that. The writing is amazing and the songs always add to the impetus rather than detract from it.
Brecht's works and techniques aiming to completely and utterly emotionally isolate the audience of his plays create confusion as to how the characters should act or whether they should act at all and they SHOULD.
By confusing you with things like having the characters refer to themselves in third person, the sudden gestures and expressions (gestus), Brecht truly accomplishes a state of uneasiness, making the reader (audience, better put) question what they're seeing and encouraging a thought process that evaluates the nature of our system.
Has its moments but it's far longer than it needs to be and only a handful of characters are fleshed out in any way.
Es scheint als wurde der Herr Brecht in seinem Alter ein bisschen "gefühlsduselig" (view spoiler)[(ein Happy End bei Brecht?? wow). (hide spoiler)] Aber sonst immer noch Alles beim Alten: alle Geschehen sind noch schön im lieben Marxismuskleid eingepackt. (inkl. Songs und Stück im Stück Parabel)
Eski zamanların birinde Devlet Tiyatroları genelde başarılı kadrolarla iyi oyunları sahnelermiş. Cemre de bu zamanların birinde Erzurum DT’den izlemiş Kafkas Tebeşir Dairesi’ni, çok da sevmiş. Bir gün bir sahafta görmüş oyunu, hemen almış. Bugün de okumuş, kim bilir belki de izlemekten zevk aldığından okumaktan da bir o kadar zevk almış.Erzurum DT demişken, yaklaşık bir ay kadar önce Erzurum DT binasında çıkan yangına ne kadar üzüldüğümü belirtmem lazım. Erzurum DT, başarılı işler sahneye koyan devlet tiyatrolarından. Umarım en kısa zamanda yanan binalarından çok daha iyisi inşa edilir ve başarıyla oyunlarını sahnelemeye devam ederler!
Der kaukasische kreidekreis=The caucsian chalk circle, Bertolt Brechtعنوان: دایره گچی قفقازی؛ اثر: برتولت برشت؛ برگزدان از متن آلمانی: مجید سمندریان؛ تنظیم اشعار: فروغ فرخزاد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، گام، چاپ سوم 1335، در 131 ص، موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 معنوان: دایره گچی قفقازی؛ اثر: برتولت برشت؛ مترجم: م. امین موید؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، رز، چاپ دوم 1351، در 176 ص، فروست: در قلمرو نمایش، موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 مماجرای همان داوری سلیمان نبی ست در باره کودک و دو مادر که یکی مدعی کودک است و دیگری مادر کودک
هرگز این همخوانی تئاترش یادم نمی روددنیا تماشاخونست تماشاییش فراوونههرکسی جای خودشهاما عدالت وارونستسال ۷۷سالن تئاتر اصلی تئاتر شهر
لماذا يكون التغريب حاجة اساسية في المسرح الملحمي ؟ التغريب مطلوب لجعل الاشياء مفهومة لانه عندنا تكون
Taking place right after WWII, in the Caucasus region, but most of it actually being told as a story within the play (which is set a few centuries in the past?). While the actual play is inspired by an old chinese drama.
I am, clearly, missing something. The only thing reading this play gave me was a headache. War sucks, but I think that has always been a given. I didn't nee this play to know that. Also, one play is enough of a challenge without the play within a play debacle.
دادگاهی تشکیل می شود و طی وقایعی، ابتدا حکم می کنند که مادر طفل، همسر فرماندار قبلی ست و میکائیل متعلق به اوست.
در کشمکش های بعدی و شهادت شهود، قاضی تازه به نام آزدک که از سوی فرماندار فعلی منصوب شده، به یک حیله ی قدیمی قفقازی (قضاوت سلیمان) متوسل می شود، این که دایره ای با گچ می کشند و کودک میان آن می گذارند.
قاضی آزدک می گوید مادر واقعی آن است که کودک را از وسط دایره بکشد و ببرد، و اگر دو طرف هم زور بودند، می توانند بچه را نصف کنند و هرکدام نصفش را بردارند.
A marxist discussion which the workers will win in the end.
Like the biblical episode that has been previously mentioned, both mothers are told to do something that could hurt the baby: a circle of chalk will be traced on the floor and the kid will be put in the middle, the two mothers should pull from his arms, and the one who manages to defeat the other can keep it.
The adoptive mother refuses, showing compassion and caring for the state of the baby, and this will be the motive for which the judge that doesn't seem to care about law but what is fair in the end will consider that she is the indicated one (though Brecht kind of forgot that not every law is innherently bad)
I once acted in a powerful production of Brecht's satirical masterpiece in, of all places, Kampala, UgandaI suppose the play can be summarised as follows: The city burns in the heat of civil war and a servant girl sacrifices everything to protect an abandoned child.
But in a culture of corruption and deception, who wins?Well, you can probably guess the ending and I won't spoil it for you.
It is a brilliant play and when performed in a country as corrupt as Uganda was in 1965/66 and at a time of civil war it becomes even more poignant!!!!!!!!!!
Aaaah, Herr Brecht, ich weiß, was Sie mit diesem Stück tun. Und trotzdem: ich falle darauf hinein, immer wieder.Ich liebe die Figuren, die jemand, die auch nur ein wenig mit der Folklore der ehemaligen Sowjetunion vertraut ist, sofort kulturell zuordnen kann. Und ich liebe diesen Hintergrund, so wunderbar eingearbeitet. Und die Sprache, natürlich die Sprache.(Wo kann ich jetzt das Stück bitte richtig gut umgesetzt auf der Bühne sehen? Wird es überhaupt noch gespielt?)
This was a very strange play. It follows the old story of two women forced to prove they're the mother of a child by fighting over it, and the true mother won't harm the child. It was a sort of play within a play, with a chorus of singers and poetry woven into it, which I enjoyed, but it seemed to be very disjointed plot wise. I'll be interested to discuss this in class to hopefully illuminate my understanding.
It is amazing the ability that some writers have to compress in a very short story a very strong message. It's also a good reminder of what writting is,simple things,powerfull message,unexpected ending. You don't need anything else no fancy writting no blood no sex. PS. In this adition there is also a short story called the injury of Sokrates. Brecht succeds to make us understand that you can win and be lost and you can lose and be a winner.
A drama that really embodies the spirit of Brecht's epic theater, and delivers a strong political and philosophical message. I wrote my dissertation about this and Der gute Mensch von Sezuan. The comments at the back are helpful. This edition also includes two earlier, shorter versions of the drama, which gives greater insight into Brecht's writing process.
