https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773858.Born_Standing_Up
I like Steve Martin's writing, especially his novels Shopgirl and The Pleasure of My Company, and this memoir is a good behind-the-scenes look at how he came to craft his hyper-silly comedy routine of the 1960s and '70s.
One of the things that is especially refreshing about this memoir is that it focuses on just his comedy career — he wasn't writing a biography of his whole life, or of every movie he ever did.
I ignored my stand-up career for twenty-five years, but now, having finished this memoir, I view this time with surprising warmth.
Whimsical anecdotes of how an artist became one huge superstar by honing his skills of wit & comedy—funny & observant. Great autobiography. This one is possibly on par to Bob Dylan’s "Chronicles." Quite inspiring!
Nine times out of ten, books like these put me to sleep.Not so, Steve Martin's BORN STANDING UP.
Once , while working as an up-and-coming comedian in the late 1960s, Martin recalls how he stepped on to the stage of a Playboy Club on a Monday night.
Martin is as skilled a writer as he was a standup comedian; he keeps the pace brisk as he tells his multi-faceted tale.
( Paul can listen to it later whenever he wants) I'm not sure what I was expecting- ( nothing really I guess)- I had a shiny new hard cover in my possession for years-- ( not sure where it came from), but I finally gave it to my aunt who adores the heck out of him.
I don't 'not' like Steve Martin --- who doesn't like "Father of The Bride?"...or any movie he did with Goldie Hawn....
but seriously struggling to survive.If his climbing up the ladder wasn't hard enough - (lonely -isolating work) - the saddest part of the book -besides the many rejections failures plus almost quitting completely-- was his relationship with his father.
It was too much for my super white New England parents on that trip down through the Carolinas, Georgia, etc.At that young age and for years after, Martin's humor resinated with me and I never fully grasped why until reading his autobio, Born Standing Up: A Comic's Life.
Yes, it can be hokey, perhaps a pratfall or three didn't need repeating, but that is the essence, the originator, of humor and should be revered on some level.Beyond learning more about myself, Born Standing Up also showed me a side of Martin I never knew was there.
If, before I read this, someone were to tell me that I would only laugh one time in the whole book, I would be like, “No way,” and he would be like, “Seriously, at one point a bird craps on Steve Martin’s head and that's literally the only time you’ll laugh in the whole book,” and I would be like, “Come on, really?” and he would be like, “Well, think about it: think about his material during this period and try to imagine how it would translate onto the page, and then think about where he is now, both as a writer and just as a person, and imagine that person trying to convey anything that you would be able to have any connection at all to, and plus you’ve heard all of his albums, right?
Just one question—’ and then as Martin leaned in expectantly: ‘How come you're not funny anymore?’He looked genuinely distraught as he turned away (in fact it later emerged that he had cancelled all his press engagements as a result), but the trajectory he was on is one that's become familiar – from live stand-up to film comedies, and from film comedies to more bittersweet roles, and finally to worthy passion projects.
Steve Martin, one wild and crazy guy!So why did I find this book boring?
I'm not quite sure.With a serious tone of voice, dryly recounting his childhood and his difficult relationship with his father, Steve Martin goes on to relate the story of his comedic life.
There are very few funny asides, and there's very little information on his skits on SNL or his relationships with the cast members.
I usually adore autobiographies in audiobook form, especially when they're narrated by the author.
David Spade's and Betty White's were great.
It was just okay.
This is the first book I've read about what life as a stand up comic is like but it certainly won't be the last and it definitely has me wondering about Martin's fiction works.Steve Martin knew he wanted to be a performer from a very young age.
One of the highlights of listening to the audio production of Born Standing Up is how apparent Steve Martin's appreciation is for all the people who were a part of his comedic journey.
He laughed aloud a few times and would tell me side stories about some of the people from the "Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour" that I would never have known due to my age.
I was upraised when I saw Caro’s review of this book and I definitely wanted to read a book written by a comic, who was with bunny ears, (a true witty playboy (ups, sorry, playgirl) bunny:D) My experience with memoirs is 50/50 (as before this one I read only 2, one was really good and heartbreaking (The Diary of a Young Girl) and the other was awful and heartpuking (Scar Tissue).
Though some may say that to be a good writer someone needs reflection, self-scrutiny, endurance, skill, maybe some degree in writing/literature/or smth.
This seems to be a common theme in the comedy memoirs I’ve read so far – everyone seems reluctant to discuss the work that goes into being funny, or to even acknowledge that being funny takes effort.
So it’s actually very refreshing to read Born Standing Up, a deeply impersonal, deeply straight-faced comedy memoir that shows us exactly how much work and conscious effort went into creating the persona of “Steve Martin, comedian.” It’s like no other memoir I’ve ever read.At first, Martin adheres to the established memoir formula by taking us through his childhood.
A book that moved quick and didn’t bullshit. Great writing, very subtle and smart jokes.My map of the book:
The idea that you could sell out the Universal Amphitheatre in L.A. with fans who wanted to hear your comedy was unheard of, kind of like Martin's act itself, which might be the very definition of "you-had-to-be-there".
As a teenager, Martin built an amateur magic and comedy act, performing for Boy Scouts groups or rotary clubs or anyone else polite enough to encourage him.
Over the next four years, Martin threw together everything he'd learned -- magic, comedy juggling, a banjo song, old jokes -- and with the poise he'd earned performing for paying customers at Knott's, took the comedy world by storm.
Some of the answers were provided by another show I tracked down in which Steve chatted to fellow comedian Jerry Seinfeld, but I wanted more and this book was referenced by Seinfeld in the interview so I decided to track it down.This short autobiography focuses on Martin’s time as a stand-up comedian and his formative years as a wannabe performer.
He walked away from stand-up in 1981, apparently to focus on his film career but I sensed that he was by this time he was discontented with his act and after years of working his material he was looking for something else.
Once he got into college, according to him, once he was in his twenties and starting to put together an adult touring club routine of his own, he simply left the magic-store accrouchements in, simply because he was 20 and a terrible comedian and needed stuff to fall back on; it was only as he started getting older, started embracing more of the countercultural things going on around him, that these details took on their ironic effect, by which time he was a good enough comedian to understand how to exploit them for that purpose.In fact, it's no surprise that no less than Jerry Seinfeld has called Born Standing Up "one of the best books about comedy and being a comedian ever written," because this is a very wonky, very process-obsessed memoir, a chance for Martin to literally record the steps that moved him from one moment to the next in his early career, to literally talk about the specific things he changed from step to step, the specific things he held onto.
I have always adored the bizarre stand-up of Steve Martin.
Steve Martin was a master at both of those.And after reading Born Standing Up, did I learn how Steve Martin got so fuckin' funny?
Kinda, its the emotionally stunted life that many comics seem to have, a job history that just couldn't be repeated in modern day America, and the study of philosophy.
But this is an impossibility due to the fact that Martin seems to have little insight into himself.His book reads like a Filofax diary of who and where and what.
He also appears to have less emotional connection to the women in his life than he did to his stage props.
(I actually detected some emotion when he talked of his magic rings and arrow-through-the head prop - but I could be mistaken.)I walk away from reading this book thinking Martin has got to be a very shallow man, and feeling duped that I found him so interesting back in his SNL days.
When I was 18 I took a cross country road trip with my father during which we listened to Martin's LET'S GET SMALL on repeat for the entire length of New Mexico.
The trip confirmed a few beliefs, yes my father was the greatest man on the planet, and yes Steve Martin was a close second.
Martin's stand-up has still never been rivaled, a perfect blend of absurd with a straight face, as if his goal was to make the joke fly over the audience's heads.
Born Standing Up never tries to make you laugh, nor does it try to make you pity Steve's struggling beginnings.
The book has a short but universal question. Why do abused children feel ashamed? Nice language, love the Disney stories.
It becomes clear early on that he worked very, very hard to get where he did, and that the insanity he expressed on stage was created by a man with both a devotion to his craft and an unexpectedly serious philosophical bent.Martin's book is an excellent history both of comedy and the capricious nature of show business.
Still, for those interested in the history of comedy, Martin himself, and what it's like to have a career in the performing arts, this is an excellent book.

Steve Martin’s account of his first 18 years in the business – “10 years spent learning, four years spent refining, four years in wild success” – makes absorbing reading, full of the absurd humour and unsparing honesty of the comic’s best work.The former “wild and crazy guy” began his show business career as an aspiring boy magician who sold guidebooks at Disneyland, graduated to corny melodramas in a semi-professional theatre and then entered stand-up (while studying philosophy on the side) with some props and a banjo.
Steve Martin, one of the most obviously intelligent comedy artists of his generation, has written a genial and serious book about the art of stand-up comedy as he saw it during his development in the 1960s and his enormous success in the 1970s. The book is charming and funny, yet it trades easy laughs for a real look at what went into the building of a spectacular career. Martin is authentic in his description of his upbringing in a family that didn't discover closeness until almost too late. It's a lovely and sometimes touching book.
His SNL work and standup and early movies were a big part of forming the peculiar sense of humour that I have today.So next time *I* am laughing hysterically while the rest of the room looks on in silence, remember kids, it's all Mr. Martin's fault.This book, which I listed to as read by the author (I think it would have been funny to have it started to be read by someone else, but he's a bit more serious nowadays.), tells of the early days of the comic's career, from his troubled childhood to an early job at Disney, where Martin met some of the people that would affect his future career.With a co-dependent mother and a father that, while Martin covers it a little, seems to have been abusive, Martin grew up very isolated and therefore gravitated to the adult figures he found in his work.
It was not only an interesting story it was filled with laughs.
Since then I've "read/listened to" a few biography/memorie type books.This is much more a bio than the Conway book.
Unlike some other "stand-up" comedians or comics Martin never really seems to have liked stand-up and doesn't have the same feeling about that "genre" of entertainment that you will see in other memories of other stand-ups.Side issue: I also just read a short memorie by Bob Newhart.
Having just read that book, I noted that the sub title of this book is "A comic's Life".
I should have listened to this on audio, as Martin would've been the perfect narrator, I'm sure.
Martin writes with a light touch, and comes across as a very centered, reflective, and well-grounded person, anything but wild and crazy.
Of course, I grew up on Saturday Night Live and Steve Martin was my idol in middle school, so this had a lot of nostalgic value for me.
I also liked it for its reflections about the fleeting nature of fame.
We have lots of examples of those who became famous too young too soon and self-destructed.
I enjoyed reading Steve Martin's memoir of his years in stand-up comedy.
I first knew of him as the guy in the movie The Jerk, but he was also a writer for The Smothers Brothers and Sonny and Cher.I want to share an amusing passage from the Acknowledgments at the end of the book.
It made me think of Good Reads:"My thanks extend to...and finally, the Internet: I have learned that people are uploading their lives into cyberspace and am convinced that one day all human knowledge and memory will exist on a suitable hard drive which, for preservation, will be flung out of the solar system to orbit a galaxy far, far away."
I listened to Steve Martin narrate this on audio, and it was a funny and endearing glimpse into his life and career. If you are a fan, you will enjoy it!
If you listened to his comedy in the 70's it's a fun reminder. If you didn't you won't like this book.
I'm not the biggest Steve Martin fan, but I watched "Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid" a few months ago and my brother gave me his book "Cruel Shoes" in college, so I was interested to read his take on his stand-up years, which were a kind of anti-comedy that employed the banjo and purposely bad magic tricks.
...if I kept denying them the formality of a punch line, the audience would eventually pick their own place to laugh, essentially out of desperation...
Eventually, I thought, the laughs would be playing catch-up to what I was doing.
They had to believe that I didn't care if they laughed at all, and that this act was going on with or without them."
