https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588020.The_Man_Who_Came_to_Dinner
A work of comic genius!One of my favourite play-to-film adaptations and a riot of a play with some eminently quotable lines.Sheridan Whiteside, celebrity speaker has slipped on ice outside the smalltown home of a family he had deigned to visit (for a fee) and has now taken over their house, rooms, telephone with his requests, guests and gifts.Querulous, sharp-tongued and used to his own way, 'Sherry' causes friction in the family, stirs up trouble between his secretary and her new beau, and generally attempts to force things to be as he wants them.Much hilarity ensues.
Honestly.
It's brilliant.
Whiteside is a fantastic creation, the old-fashioned setting no impediment to the language of the play.Enjoy.
This has got to be one of my favorite comedies of all time! Whiteside is absolutely hilarious! He's so mean - it's fantastic! I love that the characters in the play are very closely modeled after real-life celebrities of the 1930s. I'm such a fan of the era that adding the impeccable timing and comedy in with the fashion makes this play one of the best ever. I cannot wait to direct this show at our theatre this Christmas! Auditions are in September!
Fun fun fun!!! Such drama and comedy! Laughing out loud in the subway all the way. Maggie: pg144 Lorraine: pg177,193
This is certainly not my first time through this play, but a project had swung it back into view, and it always a pleasure to spend time with this comedic gem.
Another funny play! I directed this during my student teaching and it is hilarious! (Plus we won a One-Act competition with this play so it will always hold a place in my heart!)
Brilliant script!
This is a play that I loved reading every moment of. The writing was top notch making it a timeless play that just so happens to take place in a certain time period.
Subtly funny, slightly raunchy, insidiously clever.
Camp comedy of insult & bitchery. Well-crafted burp that delights amateur theatre groups in the stix.
I'm sure that this was an interesting play in it's day. But the themes of a man who is abusive to everyone, and especially to women at least in his manner of speech, are not things that are comfortably addressed in the current climate, not even when they're intended as humor. If I were a theatre company looking for something to stage, this would not be it.
Classic big cast comedy. Practically every character has his/her moment. Even though so many of the names are unrecognizable (takes place in the 1930's--and I don't know half of the celebrities) its humor still holds.
A fast-paced witty comedy. In places dated due to sexual banter and gendered comments (also, telegraph!). Otherwise it plays well to a modern era.
Enjoyable classic comedy.
I was in this play many years ago. It was hilarious!
This remains one of my favorite plays. Freshman year in high school I read Moss Hart's autobiography, Act I. Then the school put on this play and I went to see it. I was hooked. I never missed a play or musical at the school after that. I rediscovered the story a few years ago when the movie version came up On Demand. I loved it all over again (and could distinctly remember some of the actors from my high school). It's a fun and funny story and one to enjoy over and over again.
Kanye and Kim were relaxing with me in my conversation pit when our talk fell, as it always does, to "fame".
And some dude seventy years from now will be saying 'Kanye'?
But sometimes you're reading and come across that page's Zasu Pitts and it stops everything as you try to make out the joke.
And that doesn't cut it in farce - gaps like that make the action fall very flat.Other than the name-dropping - the play is very witty.
But I'm sure every director who puts on this show now has to make decisions about lines with the Kanye Wests of seventy years ago.
I liked the many moving parts of this play.
There was a lot of ins and outs, and a lot of characters having multiple side plots and shenanigans.
While the play generally was entertaining, I gave this two stars instead of three because so much of the humor was reliant on cultural references that are out-dated for today.
Parts like that make the humor seem forced instead of flawless.
What's the point of Act 1 besides way too much plot exposition and build up.
There are so many good characters, but they only seem to get a few minutes on stage.
I don't think I quite understood everything, but I knew a good read when I saw it!Years later I was able to attend the revival with Nathan Lane & Jean Smart (and a slightly miscast Harriet Harris)--what a delight to see these masters bringing the words to life.
But this is one of those wonderful plays which read very, very well indeed.
I am involved in my school production of this play, and have now read it at least 7 times through, and each time the jokes are still hilarious.
The jokes are fantastic and will certainly leave you out of breath, as well as the progression of all of the shenanigans that occur during this play.
I highly recommend this play/script to fans of Young Frankenstein (a Mel Brooks production) and to anyone who loves a good laugh.** You can find all of my reviews here, on my Goodreads page; add me as a friend!, as well as on my blog: www.thepaperworlds.blogspot.com and can find me on Instagram and Twitter as @thepaperworlds and on my Tumblr: www.thepaperworlds.tumblr.com **
1.5 stars. This is one case where the Hollywood Production Code deserves a vote of thanks for making a halfway decent movie out of the play. While a lot of the situations and the biting wit are undeniably funny, the nastiness and vulgarity of so much of its humor makes it hard to read and not worth the time.
I was a little bit confused with it. I think it would have been better if there hadn't been so much going on. It seemed as if 10 things were happening at once and it was crazy. Also, there were too many people and I couldn't always keep them straight. I didn't really understand the point of the play and it just left me lost in the end.
This is just another great classic that's a thoroughly enjoyable read! I chuckled so many times, made me happy - but as I was reading it I could see parts of the film rolling along in my head with the words I was reading! Most entertaining.....
Very entertaining play satirizing the budding entertainment industry with its whimsical actresses and equally whimsical critics who make this little world go round... or awry!Now I can't wait to see the movie adaptation with Bette Davis.
A great and witty play. I even remembered my three lines!
Entertaining, little usable material though
This play was really funny, and well written. I saw the movie first, it is excellent also, i think it is from 1943.
A comic masterpiece.
I liked this play well enough. It didn't really start getting interesting until near the end though.
Funny, funny story that also serves as a cautionary tale against letting your front stoop get too icy. Get that salt sprinkled pronto, or next thing you know you'll be accused of white slavery...
A rare play that gets away with wearing its heart on its sleeve, aided by the fact that its heart is in the right place.
