https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/715073.Tanar_of_Pellucidar
David orders best friend in Sari, King Ghak, father of Tanar, to build and man "fifty ships" p 165, then follow.
Tanar of Sari where every one has black hair, is brought from ship's dungeon, falls for golden-haired daughter of The Cid. The leader's second, Bohar the Bloody, has repulsive face scar and single fang, also wants Stellara.
Stellara's father Fedol, "chief and great tandor [mammoth] hunter" p 177.
(hide spoiler)]Bohar and Korsars invade while Tanar hunting, take Stellara.
Stellara hears Gura, rejects Tanar "in Korsar, you would only be a naked barbarian" p 229.
The empire they constructed having rid themselves of the Mahars has progressed in relative peace for many years, but for the advent of someone else who has come from the outer crust and its no one you would suspect.
Apparently, hundreds of years earlier, mighty pirates by accident sailed into the inner earth through a polar opening and never found their way out again.
The advent of the Korsairs - a power to rival the Empire set up by Innes and Perry - is totally unexpected and simply brilliant on Burroughs' part.
I have the Ace edition so I don't know if the Bison has extra material in it, but I certainly enjoyed this entry into ERB's Pellucidar series.
When it comes to Edgar Rice Burroughs novels, it's often easy to think, "If you've read one, you've read them all." So it is with TANAR OF PELLUCIDAR, which is a total mishmash-rehash of the standard Burroughs cliches, only this time the setting is Pellucidar rather than Mars or the jungles of Africa.
TANAR OF PELLUCIDAR somehow manages to be clever but dumb, well-written but sloppy, action-packed but unexciting, cartoonish but adult, naively romantic but championing of divorce.
It does a good job of setting up the next PELLUCIDAR adventure, but I don't think even the most hardcore Burroughs fan would consider it a "must-read."

This book was terrible. Burroughs' writing is convoluted, sexist, and racist. The basic "plot-line" is: 1. Stellara gets kidnapped, because she is "so feminine" she can't help it. 2. Tanar goes of to find Stellara, in the process saving a chief's son, jumping off a cliff, and finding another girl who loves him. 3. Tanar and Stellara reunite. 4. Stellara gets kidnapped, because she is "so feminine" AGAIN.....From there, the "plot" repeats itself several more times, until Burroughs has a manuscript thick enough to pass as a book.
The third volume in ERB's Pellucidar series, it's 15 years since the events in the previous novel. David Innes has to rescue Tanar of Sari who has been captured by the Korsairs, a pirate kingdom newly encountered, who originated from a pirate ship that had inadvertently entered Pellucidar through a polar opening and had never found their way out. And Tanar falls for the pirate king's daughter.
Another winner in the hollow earth series. No need to be a Tarzan or John Carter of Mars fan to enjoy these adventures which hold up well after all the decades.
Read this and the rest of the Pellucidar series in the 70s. Enjoyable!
R. Burroughs "Pellucidar" series in my review of Back to the Stone Age ( http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23...
The inventor, skeptical, is told by the author, Burroughs: ""You know, of course," he said, "that there really has been a theory of an inner world for many years." ""Yes," I replied, "I have read works expounding and defending such a theory." ""It supposes polar openings leading into the interior of the earth," said Jason.
Therefore, I have to wonder did Burroughs read Gardner's bk & was it the inspiration for the "Pellucidar" series?
Pellucidar #3; possibly read some time in winter 1967
Along the way the two of them will face Korsars, prehistoric beasts, even the undead, but nothing can prepare them for the greatest foe they will encounter on their adventures: their feelings for each other.I enjoy the adventures in the primordial world of Pellucidar, and this adventure was interesting.
I enjoyed seeing more of the seas and islands of Pellucidar, and here Burroughs takes the opportunity to create a swashbuckling tale in a prehistoric world.
Burroughs could've taken the time to expound on the story.
Stylistically this novel is little different and follows much the same plot lines - danger, capture, escape, capture, rescue.
It requires a bit more suspension of disbelief than some of his other novels.
In my view, the description of Tanar's imprisonment in the Korsar dungeon is the best piece of writing in the book and the most realistic.
(It might be seen as a precursor to Zelazny's imprisonment of a blinded Corwin in the dungeon of Amber.) The distinction made between the two island peoples merit more consideration.
Tanar of Pellucidar, Edgar Rice BurroughsThis novel is about a young man, Tanar, who is a prince in Sari, his native land.
On this boat Tanar meets a lovely lady Stellara and they start to fall in love.
Throughout the whole book Tanar and Stellara are trying to escape the many perils they face, while slowly falling in love with one another.
They make friends and enemies, and there is a lot of jealousy that occurs between them and the people they meet.
I really enjoyed this novel.
I love that two people can go on so many adventures in a short amount of time.
The third book of this pulp era series about adventures inside a hollow earth.
Like some of the others, this one is written as if Burroughs himself was in contact with Pellucidar and the story was relayed to him from one of the main characters.
It's an interesting concept and does adds a bit of variety.
The pulp serial style of interconnected mini adventures is common in books from this period.
Another reason is that the fate of one of the main characters is left unresolved at the end of this book.
Next one is the crossover book 'Tarzan at the Earth's Core', which should be interesting.
We own this as part of an omnibus: Edgar Rice Burroughs Science Fiction Classics: Pellucidar, Thuvia Maid of Mars, Tanar of Pellucidar, the Chessman of Mars, the Master Mind of Mars
Civilisation isn't the same, even if the citizens are pirates.
Non-stop action and really creepy new creatures, the Coripi.
The hero, Tanar, son of the King of Sari spends the whole book moving between capture and escape.
He visits two islands, one where all is love and happiness, the other where all is hate and misery.
The key distinction lies, apparently, in the availability of no-fault divorce on the happy isle.
He is kidnapped by pirates, escapes them thanks to a storm at sea, is imprisoned by islanders, escapes, is captured by the buried people, escapes, is captured by pirates again, escapes again, is captured again ...
So far this was a low point in this series, and only 3 books in.
Tanar was little different from other Burroughs protagonist, but this one just didn't have "it".
There are a few interesting elements, it's cavemen vs pirates, cannibals, and wild animals, but none of them are developed that well.
They really could have been better story elements but are just kinda there.
Unless you're a completist or need to know what the setup for Tarzan at the Earth's Core is, you can probably skip it.
In fact, just read the summary and move on to Tarzan at the Earth's Core.
Way more internal than the other Pellucidar novels and centered around a love story that actually rings true for all its pulpiness. Tanar is an almost Candide-like adventure, with the internal worldviews of various tribes treated as the centerpiece of entire civilizations. You can tell that Burroughs was tired of writing adventure serials and from what I understand, he began phoning it in on the Pellucidar and Tarzan series after this novel. Which is unfortunate, since Tanar is a delight and Burroughs clearly had some excellent insight into psychology, philosophy and romance.
A nice adventure story, more grand in scope than the previous books, and a bit darker in its themes. The characters themselves don't exude complexity or conflict, but the story itself is quite complex and weaves and interesting picture of the world at the earth's core.
If you have read the other Pellucidar books then you know just what to expect.It is a fast paced old fashioned adventure story complete with the attitudes of the early 20th Century.My only real gripe is that the story just ends what feels like half way through and he wraps it up in a single page.A very odd way to end the book.
The Pelliucidar series is my favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books!
Can't beat it! See my reviews of "At the Earth's Core" and "Pellucidar" for details, but basically, this is a solid series from start to finish. If you don't mind the slightly dated feel to it, you'll have a great time.
This has been my fav pellucider book so far, mostly because it lately disposes of the first person narrative style for a third person omniscient style. Plot wise it was super repetitive but the characters and the word building made up for it.
False
I love the setting for the book: Pellucidar. Burroughs takes you to strange places. Check out the cover! Fly leaf drawing is great too.
Really 2.5 stars...decent, but maybe it's just that ERB is beginning to lose its appeal since his writing is so similar from series to series.
Pellucidar Book 6
Just another book from my childhood
I mean, it's still as fantastically conceived and high-adventured as ever, but the sexism and tension from simple understandings (and kidnappings) are growing a bit old.
