https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35133922-educated
I had to remind myself at times that I wasn’t reading a gritty novel, that Tara and her family were real as I got more than just a glimpse of a life that was hard for me to even imagine.
A religious fanatic father, hoarding food and guns and bullets and keeping his family off the radar, not filing for birth certificates, not getting medical attention when they needed it, avoiding the government, the feds at all cost , keeping his children out of school, the paranoia, the preparation for the “Days of Abomination” - this is what we find in this place on a mountain in Idaho.
Whenever I don’t know a lot about something, I’ll read a textbook or watch an online course until I do.I thought I was pretty good at teaching myself—until I read Tara Westover’s memoir Educated.
(Full disclosure: she was a Gates Scholar, which I didn’t even know until I reached that part of the book.)Educated is an amazing story, and I get why it’s spent so much time on the top of the New York Times bestseller list.
Her dad taught the kids that they could teach themselves anything, and Tara’s success is a testament to that.I found it fascinating how it took studying philosophy and history in school for Tara to trust her own perception of the world.
On the highway below, the school bus rolls past without stopping. I am only 7, but I understand that it is this fact more than any other that makes my family different. We don't go to school. Dad worries that the government will force us to go, but it can't because it doesn't know about us. Four of my parents' seven children don't have birth certificates. We have no medical records because we were born at home and have never seen a doctor or nurse. We have no school records because we've never
Maybe not an ideal way to make sure your kids reach adulthood in one piece.View from Buck Peak - image from Westover’s siteHome schooling was also less than idyllic, with mom’s attention spread not only over seven children but to her work as an herbalist and later, in addition, a midwife.
(I included a link in EXTRA STUFF to a music video in which she sings lead, so you can hear for yourself.)At age seventeen, Tara Westover attended her first school class, at BYU, clueless about much of what was common knowledge for everyone else, resulting in her asking a question in class about a word everyone, I mean everyone, knows.
I've read a few books about isolated communities that go off the grid and enforce their own laws and, I have to say, Westover's experience felt pretty tame.
I think this was the most important part of the book and it's been glossed over in favour of people's delight at learning about weirdos running around wild in the mountains.
Or, alternatively, Westover's "survivalist" family were sitting on a few on-the-grid dollars that conveniently popped up when equipment needed repairs and people needed to go to college.
When I began reading Educated, I was floored that Tara and her siblings were not in school, and they were not homeschooled either.
Tara made it clear from the start that her family’s Mormon faith did not cause her father’s substantial paranoia; however, he used his faith to feed it.
It was both fascinating and heartbreaking to watch those dynamics shift even more as Tara’s aspirations developed and were achieved.
Overall, I found Educated to be one of the most engaging, powerful, and inspiring memoirs I have read.
Thank you to Tara Westover, Random House, and Netgalley for this reading experience I will treasure.
Educated is now available!
One thing I had an issue with is that her family is described as survivalists who educated their children at home - many of which do not even have a birth certificate - but then they had many modern conveniences.
Case in point the first car accident in the book, Tara's father offered to pay for the damaged tractor.
Was this because they were raised without any rules and became reckless, or did bad things just happen to them?Tara does want a better life for herself.
Tara Westover’s book “Educated” is a distressing & discomforting - alarming & startling exposure of her Mormon fundamentalist family.
This book is very well written - ( gloomy -perplexing - and wearisome at times from repetitive trips back home to seek validation from her family)- but it seemed her education brought her almost as much pain as it did inner fulfillment.
I DO FEEL THIS BOOK OUGHT TO BE READ ....I DO SEE THIS BOOK’S IMPORTANCE....a story about an American family living by their own rules - ignoring others who don’t follow their beliefs.
He thinks he speaks for God. Tara struggles with the knowledge that for her to go to school will mean a total separation from her father because he will never acknowledge that his ideas are not the correct ones.
Tara continues throughout the book to struggle to find her way, to stand up for her beliefs.
And how strong folks like Tara are to be able to rise above their beginnings and be able to fight back against the attempts of family to hold them down.
It's not about getting a PhD, it's about growing up in a family that doesn't believe in school, thinks doctors are a part of a sociologist conspiracy, and that any day the government will shoot them dead--if the end of times don't come first.
By the end, she has to come to terms with balancing family bonds and having the strength to see past their warped sense of reality.There's really no words to describe it, but I'd start with moving, inspiring, shocking and un-put-downable.
Stop wasting your time reading this review and start reading the book!
It had never occurred to me that my voice might be as strong as theirs."- Tara Westover, Educated: A MemoirThis book feels like it was written by a sister, a cousin, a niece.
I often found myself having to talk through parts of the book with my wife while reading.
It consumed us.This book reads like a modern-day, Horatio Alger + The Education of Henry Adams: An Autobiography.
These narratives especially begin to reorient as she becomes "educated."I bought a copy and before I even read it, I gave it to my father to read (He grew up in Heglar, ID).
Refraining from spilling all the beans.I could sit here and write a Cliffs Notes version of her life, just because I’m so excited to share it, but I’ll try to put a sock in it (one of the two that were knocked off my feet by the power of this story) because you really need to experience this book all for yourself.Dad buried gas and guns.Tara is the youngest of seven kids, all raised in the mountains of Idaho by a madman father who was a religious fanatic and believed the end of the world was coming.
Had it not been for the group read, I'm sure I would have DNF'd this one.So I'm probably in the minority in not liking this one.
It was more of a 'having a hard time believing the story' kinda thing.
It just became a bit much and I was having a hard time believing it all.
She ended up having multiple siblings teach themselves, go to college, and get advanced degrees.
I'll just say thanks to NetGalley for an advanced copy of the read and this in no way influenced my review.
Wow!
Tara Westgrove is one of the strongest, and bravest people I have ever read about!
So much danger for her in that life, mostly because of her father and one of her older brothers.This memoir is so brutal at times and hard to read, your heart just breaks for this girl, and for some of her siblings.Tara rises up to become extremely “educated” despite the fact that she never attended school, and was barely homeschooled.
Her academic achievements were fascinating to read about, especially with all the turmoil in her life.Recommended!!!!!
It has made me very leery of trusting and believing a lot of things and unfortunately this gene kicked in big time in this story billed as a memoir.While I do believe that the things described by Tara Westover might have happened, I also have to think that this was a book of childhood memories.
From her writing, we know that is not true.Lastly, if indeed these things were happening, where were the people who should have noticed the abuse?
Would they have not noticed untoward things happening to the Westover children.
It took me through a whole gamut of my own emotions from belief to disbelief, from hesitation to doubt to wariness, and most importantly, from the weightiness of compassion and empathy to the restrictions of frustration and anger.Tara Westover tells her story straight out through the reflections seen by her own eyes, her own jagged experiences, and in her own words.
It is my sincere hope that Tara's words, truth-bound or not, will reach into that darkness that exists in others right now in order for them to find their own voice.
I was blown away by this book.
I finished it a few days ago and can’t stop thinking about it.Tara Westover grew up under the watchful eye of a survivalist and fundamentalist family.
Her parents did not believe in sending children to school for fear of being brainwashed, they did not believe in doctors, hospitals or medication.
Whenever a member of the family was injured they would be treated at home with tinctures, herbs, and homemade remedies.
There is a lot more to the story than this brief description.The book is captivating, emotional, and powerful.
the pull of family is strong and many people continue to love people who hurt them repeatedly, but there’s no world in which i teach myself trigonometry, so #2 still has my vote.it’s an interesting book for a number of reasons, but maybe not the ones that are being used to pitch it.
the family is self-sufficient and insular in many ways, but they have a phone, a tv, a car, tara participates in local musical theater groups - they’re by no means “off the grid." except for Y2K, which deeply disappointed her father by failing to happen, the family doesn’t actively prepare for the breakdown of society, and there’s nothing of the survivalist guns and ammo and “we live in trees now” lifestyle here.
FIVE STARSThis is one of those books that I can't stop talking about.
Tara Westover is not only highly educated, but she is stubborn as a bulldog and pulled herself up by the steel-toed boots she wore as a child working in her family's Idaho junkyard.
I love it!At the heart of her memoir lies Tara's unrelenting drive to be accepted by her family despite her eventual success with higher education and her rebirth into a different world altogether.
He was a devout survivalist and determined to take his entire family with him into the darkness.EDUCATED is a fascinating story of sheer perseverance and grit.
Wow.Harrowing, heartbreaking, and ultimately triumphant,  Educated  is at times difficult to read and not at all what I expected, but I couldn't tear myself away from it."Mother had always said we could go to school if we wanted. We just had to ask Dad, she said. Then we could go. But I didn't ask. There was something in the hard line of my father's face, in the quiet sigh of supplication he made every morning before he began family prayer, that made me think my curiosity was an obscenity, an af
She touches on learning about things like the Holocaust and the civil rights movement for the first time, and how difficult she found being on her own, dealing with the disapproval of her father.While this book deals with the educational triumphs Westover ultimately achieves despite all of the obstacles thrown in her way, this is a tough story to read as well, because she also shares what it is like to constantly have your self-worth undermined by those who claim to love you and want what's best for you.
So this book is billed as being along the same lines as The Glass CastleMy little nothing opinion falls around something like this. Tara grows up in a different kind of family. Her dad knows that the end of the world is coming and makes sure his family is always ready. He has them preparing food constantly, digs a shelter, does not believe in association with anything government (including doctors)...mom is a midwife that practices with herbal cures. The family has strong beliefs that center the
So this book is billed as being along the same lines as The Glass CastleMy little nothing opinion falls around something like this.
Her dad knows that the end of the world is coming and makes sure his family is always ready.
The family has strong beliefs that center them on their mountain and away from worldly things.
Including school.
Technically, the story is that the family is homeschooled...but there is not a whole lot of schooling going on.
Their dad is a force and his beliefs are held strong in the family.
But then there were parts after the first half of the book that I couldn't read fast enough.
for this reason I may never read another memoir that I need to review, it is hard for me to separate the person from the book....
all I’m saying is the average person of average intelligence probably isn’t going to end up at Harvard....
if I had started college without knowing any algebra my freshman year I would have never made it through college much less ended up at Harvard, no matter how hard I worked.....
so yes you should work hard, yes education is important, but you also need to be realistic with what your abilities are....
Raised by a anti-government survivalist and fundamentalist Mormon father, Tara's early life was anything but ordinary: little education other than learning to read, being nearly worked to death in the scrapyard by her father, tormented by her probably-schizophrenic brother, not even sure of her own birthday.
One thing I quite liked was that she never dragged her family's Mormon beliefs through the mud even though it would have been the easiest thing in the world for her to do and pretty understandable given everything it cost her.Parts of the book are heartbreaking and it makes the end that much more satisfying.
Buck Peak - a dangerous place to live....at any age!Tara Westover grew up on a mountain with a paranoid, volatile father who spent his days preparing for the end of the world; a submissive mother who was blind to her children's hurt, five brothers and a sister....one brother so threateningly scary at times, I could hardly believe what he was doing or what I was reading.
And OMGOSH!....the accidents....the accidents....the accidents!EDUCATED is a powerful, shocking and noteworthy debut....an unforgettable memoir.Many thanks to NetGalley and RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP for the ARC COMING FEBRUARY 20, 2018 in exchange for an unbiased review.
Her father was a survivalist and thought the world might end at any moment!Their family home was situated in the shadow of Buck Peak mountain and they lived in poverty.
Tara and her six siblings endured much pain under the volatile father and one brother who proved to be quite dangerous.
She endured so much pain growing up with such a demanding and out of touch father.
The accidents were horrific.Lots of reviews on this one, I thought it was both shocking and uplifting to read how Tara was able to pull herself out of the family chaos and become a successful woman.Thanks to NG for my arc.
Well, this one was a special book.
I didn't like what I read in the beginning.
But it's a reminder of what harm religion can do.
But quickly we came out of this Sam Harris-like territory, and went into more chaos.There are a few cases like Tara's.
But not everyone of them can write like her.
She reminds me of Beryl Markham with her biography, West with the Night.Reading this book was very much aligning with the values that I hold sacred.
I gave this book 5 stars knowing that it was an antidote to ignorance.
” I will not makeThe same mistakes that you didI will not let myselfCause my heart so much miseryI will not breakThe way you did, you fell so hardI've learned the hard wayTo never let it get that far“I lose my wayAnd it's not too long before you point it outI cannot cryBecause I know that's weakness in your eyesI'm forced to fakeA smile, a laugh everyday of my lifeMy heart can't possibly breakWhen it wasn't even whole to start with” --“Because of You” Kelly Clarkson, Songwriters: David Hodges /
A family of seven children, a father who believes the End of Days is imminent, a mother who followed the teachings of her faith, believed her husband to be the head of the house and bent her will, bent her ideas of right and wrong to his will.
Birth certificates were viewed as a tool that the government could use to force them to make their children attend government-run schools and be taught ideas fed by the government.
”There’s a story my father used to tell about the peak.
Written with the skill and resonance of a work of fiction, Tara Westover's memoir is heart-breaking and frank and yet hopeful in its telling.Westover was born in 1986, grown up in a rural Idaho radical Mormon Family dominated by her father Gene who was determined to raise his children away from the clutches of the government and the wider world.
However this is Tara's story and I can only read,review and rate the book on the written word in front of me and how I reacted to those words 
They wouldn’t let the Government brainwash their kids in them public schools, so the Feds came after them.’ Dad exhaled, long and slow.
She was nearly brained and cut with something and called to him to stop, but he kept right on throwing.“I almost had it when Dad flung a catalytic converter.
Your mother will deal with it”, including the kid in the first quote, who was on fire, running through the fields.Brains spilling out on the highway?
but when I was your age I was living on my own, getting ready to marry your father.’ ‘You were married at sixteen?’ I said.
Clearly brilliant, she managed to get into college at Brigham Young and eventually made her way to Cambridge University in the UK.Westover’s memoir focuses on her family and their influence over her life and her understanding of the world.
There was love in her home life, but it came at a ridiculously high price — intellectual, emotional and physical.
While Westover clearly values her ability to get an education and learn about the world, the consequential separation from her family also came at its own high price.Educated is an emotional roller coaster— but it’s not told with melodrama or self pity.
Inquietante, dal mio punto di vista, la quantità di fotografie che si trovano di questa giovane scrittrice nata nel 1986 alla sua prima prova letteraria: ho sempre l’impressione che in questi casi si usi la fotogenia di chi scrive per vendere di più, e magari coprire qualche magagna.”The Hills Have Eyes – Le colline hanno gli occhi”.
2010.La storia credo sia ormai abbastanza risaputa: famiglia numerosa (curioso come chi scrive commenti vari il numero dei Westover junior, per chi son cinque, per chi sei – invece sono sette, e questo si aggancia a quanto dirò tra poco) e famiglia disfunzionale – un incrocio tra “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre - Non aprite quella porta” più “Le colline hanno gli occhi” e dall’altra parte “Winter’s Bone – Un gelido inverno”.
