https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339443.True_to_the_Game
Fabulous series! incredible writing,this book was engaging and had a nicely developed cast of characters..recommend (paperback!)
I liked the book because I think that it showed the consequences of being a drug dealer.
It showed that being "true to the game" would leave you dead, or paralyzed.
I also wanted Gena to learn more by the end of the book.
I wanted her to learn that she needs to get away from the game.
Because it may bring wealth and material things, but in the end it leaves tragedy and despair.
I don't completely doubt Qua's love for Gena.
But if the author really wanted me to believe that Q loved Gena beyond any doubt, then he should have been faithful to her.
How did this book make it to the top when they are so many well-written writers who go unnoticed?
If Teri Wood can make it as a so called writer, and be well received with accolades, any one can.
Gena is one of the most underdeveloped characters I have read; and what was so special about Quadir?
I like street fiction when the characters are developed and there is a lesson and good story line.
So mad I picked it up because of all the rave reviews I'd read.
And they said Teri Woods is the new generation's voice from the street.

It wasn't the best book I've ever read, but it was very entertaining, and it contained all the elements I expected to find in the genre: cattle stampedes!
So there's a tough-but-tender heroine, a hero who, given the chance, really just wants to be a dentist, a grandmother (Gah Git) who is the mother to an entire neighborhood worth of children, a variety of associates and hangers-on who want their piece of the good life, and villains who want to get in the way of Gena and Quadir's happiness.
With the movie scheduled to come out in a few days, my bookclub decided to read so we can compare and from page one I was sucked completely in all over again.
There were a few things I felt different about this time around such as Gena and Qua's love.
I'm praying that they do it justice but if they don't I won't even be mad because I can always come back to this book that will forever be classically TRUE TO THE GAMEMy name is K SherrieAnd I recommend this read
I read this book, finally, because I always heard good reviews about it. I honestly do not see why. The main character had no development throughout the book. She seemed to only care about money and how to maintain her lifestyle. The writing was going back and forth from different points of view often jumping around making it read like a school aged story. Maybe If I was eighteen I could appreciate this novel a little more. (It was such a simple read that I was able to finish it in less than 24 hours.)
Trash...no plot and I couldn't really connect to any of the characters. They were too ignorant for me. But I was never into the drug game. I don't mind chasing women but these guys were dogging these women and the women were seriously just after money. Boring. Worse was how shallow everyone was. There's more to life than money. You can't take money with you after you're dead. You can't take jewelry with you when you're gone. You can't take any of that material nonsense with you.
When I was about twelve years old I was in the Philadelphia Library in search of a book for school. Scanning the shelves I came across an aisle dedicated to African American Fiction Novels. The first book I laid eyes on was “True To The Game” by Teri Woods. The book cover was a plain black paperback with a set of dice on the bottom and the words TRUE TO THE GAME in big bold white letters. The book cover was very simple not eye grabbing but the title made me want to see what it was about. True t
The production in the book is only one reason why I loved True to the Game.
The way Teri Woods put life in Gena and Quadir made them appear to be real life people.
When reading True to the game the love story it shared was “So Blue” as Gena would say.
This read had me in tears...excellent read...classic
"Even the rich are hungry for love, for being cared for, for being wanted, for having someone to call their own." In this book one of the main characters Gena represents this quote very well.
Gena doesnt care that she is spending dirty money and that anyday her "Lover" can be killed because of the kind of work he does.
Gena starts to catch on that there are problems and start to think about what will happen to her if Quadir dies she doesnt know how she will be able t go on with life without him because she has no money of her own she depends on Quadir a lot.
The book that I was reading is very interesting I really enjoyed it because its like some people everyday life which is very sad but that's just the way some people live.I was able to visualize a few things like for a example young man standing on the corner I see that almost everyday so yea I cold pic it.
I would recommend this book to young teenage boys who's are confused and the ones who live a street life this book can be really touching and help you make better choices in life.
This my second time reading this series of True to the game. I actually read the original book she first wrote this time. It was very close to the newer version of the boook. What I can say that there part that were new to me like I don't remember her being beating up by her boyfriend Jamal, the trial with Forty, the way she was dressed for her party was different, Black and his girl pam. But the fable version was pretty good. So that everyone is clear there is two version to this book.
I listened to the trilogy, and overall, I enjoyed all 3 books. Sometimes they were too graphic for me, but they held my attention. The narrator was not very good and I feel his inconsistent, sometimes choppy narration detracted from my enjoyment of the audiobooks. The plot is somewhat predictable, but it's good enough for you to want to keep reading/listening. I'd give it a 3.8.
Wooo, lordt this was terrible. I checked it out after seeing a trailer for the movie somewhere. The movie looked terrible so I thought maybe this was one of those cases where the book would be better. WRONG. Smh
Excellent, this gangsta book made me feel like I was right there in the story while I was reading it.
This book have you like WOOOW!!!!!!Anybody that have not read this book needs to ASAP!!!!
This was a good read.
Not in my top ten, but it was good...even better after the halfway point.
Definitely better than most urban fiction books out now.
The end shook me a little, because that wasn't how I pictured it all going down.
I will probably read the rest of the series, but I feel like the real star was Quadir, so...
Gena was pretty one dimensional while Quadir seemed to have different levels to his character, obviously because of his business and his lifestyle.
I would have liked to see what happened after he got out the game.
It took me awhile to get in to this book but once I did it was really good.
Awesome BookI read this book when first published and read it again to prepare for the upcoming movie. I can't wait to see the movie.
Very good. BookVery good book i would recommend getting this book. I'm getting the 2&3book love it . C in inn i
Well in this book "True to the Game" a girl named Gena who came from the projects meets up with a "top dog" drug dealer and her life begins to go differently.
Its all fun and games at first with all the shopping a money and lots of power , but then everything turns around when Quadir wants to get out of the drug dealing bussiness so him and gena can get married and live their life without worrying for their lives.
I don’t know why I wanted to reread this, but it made me thankful of the life I chose to live.
My friend on the other hand just wanted to make money but never leave the our neighborhood.
As always rereading opens up new things about the story you didn’t get the first time reading.
It seemed like everyday you would hear shots fired and the next thing you know someone from around the way...or across the city was killed.
The lifestyle of the young men thinking they can do it for a few years to make quick money then get out is really messed up.
My favorite character is Quadir, the millionaire drug dealer who was a person who was about his business but took are of the people he loved and trusted no one with some things he was a very humble person.I would recommend this book to anyone who likes books that are fiction repasenting the game as well as life in the streets.
If you like B-More Careful you'll love True To The Game because basically its like the same type of things happen in these books.
Superficial tale of money, "love(as long as the money lasted)" and hood fameI listened to the book on audible.
While we were told that Gina and Quadar had this amazing , deep connection and love for one another, it was not evident in their interactions with one another nor with their individual thoughts about each other.
As with a few other points in the story, the telling of how Q & Gina made a connection was glossed over and had you wondering if there was audio or pages missing.
My book club is listening to the trilogy.
I read this book in my early teen years, at that point in my life, this whole Urban glorified drug game ghetto fiction was captivating to me.
I thought that the characters relatable, because there were so many girls that I knew, and my Philadelphia area, who were just like Gina.
But now, I see that, this type of fiction, is inappropriate, there's so much of it going on in real life, that there is no need to write about such types of lifestyles, in books.
I got to the half point and the dialogue just started to sound really stupid like she ran out of steam in the story.
Also, I realized that words like "jewelry,BMW,beamer,sneakers, benz, jaguar" are some of the main things these characters talk and care about.
The characters are some of the most shallow and stupid and worthless people imaginable and there is really nothing to like about them.
I don't mind reading raw stores and I don't mind reading about people I don't like but then make them interesting/fascinating and have the writing be incredible and It will keep me wanting to continue reading.
It's been such a long time since I've read a good street lit book which is why I was able to finish this book in one day.
I really enjoyed this book and found myself emotionally tied to it.
However I gave it 4 stars because I felt that it lacked description.
When the characters were introduced, they weren't really given a good physical description and so I was left to use my imagination.
Other parts of the book seemed to be rushed and had no detail.
But overall I loved this book and I'm looking forward to finishing the series.
I think I would have really loved this book if I read it when I was a teenager but now, it more frustrated me than anything. While the story was captivating enough, the characters were completely not likeable! Maybe I'm a grumpy old person, but the only character that I liked was "Gah Git." Everyone else was extremely frustrating and hard for me to feel sympathetic to them. Maybe I felt a little bad for Quadir. Maybe.At the end of the book, Gena doesn't seem to learn anything and there really isn't an character growth or progression.
The book was decent. I have definitely read better. Gena had no common sense and there were too many characters. Living in the fast life has no future and will not last forever, so you would think Gena would have stashed money for a rainy day considering there was so much of it but she just kept blowing it. There were a lot of parts in the book that was just unreal and borderline stupid. The idea of the story was good but wasn't well written. I plan on reading part 2 and 3 just to see what happens.
