https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25614523-originals
This isn't a cutting-edge primer on what it takes to be "original." It's a pleasantly readable, if mediocre, collection of findings and anecdotes that are more-or-less related to the notion of fostering creativity/success.
Yes. The author applies his formula with zest: he starts each chapter with a "hook," spaces out his anecdotes, sprinkles in previews to build suspense, and distills each story into a pithy moral.
The take-away points are numerous and don't all hang together thematically.
To illustrate his points, the author tells the stories of mostly familiar heroes (mostly white guys, except of course MLK) whose underdog narratives are either well-worn or predictable.Original?
The reality is that procrastination (aka waiting) may in fact be the measured recipe for provoking more creative output as judged by multiple observers.The myth is that first borns have an innate advantage compared to later siblings.
The reality is that later birth ordered children have demonstrable abilities to take risks that older siblings avoid and these calculating risk-takers succeed in higher ratios.If your are ready to stop believing the dogma of what it takes to succeed and start questioning the mythology of success then you must read this book.
The book is a collection of anecdotes slathered with confirmation bias in place of a logic rooted argument.The examples are written in more of an infotainment style than the likes of Thinking Fast & Slow, yet it does not make up for the lack of detailed critical analysis with an engaging narrative as Malcolm Gladwell masterfully executes with his books.One example that really stuck with me as lacking any scientific validity was the phrasing of the sign which instructed doctors to wash their hands.
Ironically, this book contains very few original ideas on it's own
OriginalsTwo stars are generous. The first 3 or 4 chapters had some value, but the examples that were used, in those chapters, were dated and generic. The author’s credentials seem steer and the reviews were quite good, so you can imagine my surprise when I found the content to be so remedial. The remaining chapters seemed trite and had little value. It’s sad. I love to find something worthwhile in this subject matter, so please recommend something if anyone knows of anything worth reading.
It's not about nonconformists or originals.There are many Social Science tests discussed.
Setting up the tests themselves are interesting ideas, but the audio book never mentions the sample sizes or if any experiments have been able to recreate results, so you don't know how real the implications are.He deals with how relatively little decisions are made where the main gist is to get people to just be more open minded and less dogmatic.
I would get a lot more out of the author pointing out unsuccessful Originals.
Still, it's interesting to hear about successful people in a casual way.
This is a mash-up of other books on pop psychology and whatnot with some personal anecdotes about other people who are original.
That kind of overachieving activity is pretty much the opposite of what most people think of when they hear the word "procrastination." There's something interesting in these speech stories about greatness, but it's not procrastination and I don't even know that it's about originality.
Of course, touting the benefits of procrastination is in itself unoriginal and if you want a better book for that I'd recommend: 
It is concerning though that people might think this is well-researched strong science.
I read this book in two days. Several times while in the middle of reading it, I had to remind myself that I wasn't reading a book written by Malcolm Gladwell. Then, I realized something just as good: I was reading a book by Adam Grant. Grant is quickly becoming one of my favorite thinkers in the field of social science. Pick this book up—it's wildly entertaining, and you'll get so much out of it.
It has a lot that I already knew, but it added important principals, told great stories, and wrapped it all in great structure.When was the last time you had an original idea and what did you do with it?Originality is scary, and it is conventional wisdom that some people are innately creative, while most have few original thoughts.
That’s the passion you’re looking for.” (Or in Outliers: The Story of Success, The Beatles and their relentless performances, playing for eight hours a day in Hamburg before becoming outstanding).Can we tell who is going to be a better original?For one, Research on highly creative adults shows that they tended to move to new cities much more frequently than their peers in childhood, which gave them exposure to different cultures and values, and encouraged flexibility and adaptability.
It could have been a 5 star book, but struggles for a few reasons.
Thirdly, some of the examples used seem to be of successful businesses, but I struggle to see them as hugely original.
Don't get me wrong I've got no problem with the US and many of us can learn a lot from US businesses, but there is a wider world out there with plenty of originals in it!An easy read, some useful information, but it does not really live up to the original promise.
This is one of the few self-helpy books that is actually worth reading. Great stories and great tips and very well-written. I really enjoyed it and have thought a lot about it since I read it.
يتحدث الكتاب عن الأشخاص الذين يأتون بأفكار جديدة وسباقة، والذين أسماهم باسم Originals الأصليونويعطي نصائح هامة لهم كل فصل من الكتاب يتحدث عن مشكلة معينة تواجه هؤلاء الأشخاص، ابتداء من الآلية المثلى لتقييم افكارهم ومعرفة ما إن كانت فاشلة أو قوية، مرورا بكيف سيتحدث وكيف يقنع الآخرين بفكرته والتوقيت الأمثل لطرح الفكرة، وانتهاء بطرق لتجاوز القلق من صعوبة التحديات التي تواجههم.الكتاب قوي جدا، يبدأ بحماس ويضيء العديد من مساحات التفكير لديك.واعتمد في كتابه على الكثير من الأبحاث والتجارب
I'm going to have to disagree with Sheryl Sandberg on this one.
Grant tells a curated set of stories of familiar heroes that are mostly white guys, except of course of MLK.
I wish he included a broader range of stories from other incredible black figures and figures of color -- Native Americans, Latinoamericanos, Asian Americans.
Moreover, women of color were entirely written out and only mentioned as "double minorities" which paints them as powerless victims, rather than sharing stories of overcoming adversity and fight for equality.
More of a collection of stories that don't necessarily fit together.
Read this for the EY book club at work. I found it to be mostly weak connections and psychological claims with no real support. It is like a BuzzFeed article turned into a book. There are better books in this genre.
But the best reasoning I can come up with was that it was flattering to me...!Not because I'm particularly original--I'm an attorney, after all--but because it actually lauded a certain kind of restraint that I believe I'm possessed of.
The book did not exhort throwing out all conventions, but rather to be sensible and accept restraints and to discard conventional thinking within them.
Given that I'm a lawyer, the field whose whole "thing" is adhering to convention, I must be either a masochist or highly deluded about the degree to which the above describes my mien.
But it at least describes how I think I operate when thinking about social and legal issues, or that I aspire to.
A must-read for any person who strives to change the status-quo.
He tackles lots of popular misconceptions about what it needs to become successful.
It shows that you don't need to follow the media image.
Overall, I find this approach really difficult to follow.
He throws in lots of numbers, but I don't know which one is based on proper study or just based on 1 case study.
All it says is you don't need to follow a certain path.
I usually respect this type of "Self help" author who can give guideline, rather than simply tearing down misconception like a pop journalist.
This is a very well written interesting analysis of the origins of originality and how our society can foster it. I would recommend this book to basically anyone. The author uses fascinating anecdotes to get his points across and writes in a clear and concise manner. Great book!
Great book.Check out a 4 minute video review and summary I made on Youtube. It will give you a good overview to decide if you want to further explore it, or it can also refresh your memory if you have already read it. https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=KB9CzAA...
Not as much as Give and Take: A Revolutionary Approach to Success, which was amazing and I think I pestered everyone I knew about it for a solid three months after I finished it, but it was still a solid and engaging read with good information written well.I think I have credibility when I say that I already have a good track record in speaking out on subjects I care about regardless of whether or not they are popular or will make me well-liked, so in some ways, I wasn't the target audience for this book; a lot of the information struck me as fairly obvious.
If you haven't read much on creativity lately, he does a good job at consolidating a lot of recent research (including his own - many of the references are for email exchanges or phone conversations that he instigated) and presenting it in a holistic way.
Some of it I had seen before but there was a lot of new perspective and new ideas in it for me.
I will be ordering this book for my library!I received a copy of this from the publisher through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
I would give this book 4.5 stars if possible. It is a compelling book with many ideas to reflect on. There are some useful suggestions one could apply immediately at work or in their life and likely achieve some positive results. Other ideas are less supported or the suggestions for application, IMO, would likely miss the mark. Despite my opinion on some specifics the book is one of the best I have read for offering advise and busting myths about how originality, and thus innovation, may be acheived.
Following some of the book's advice, which says to ban the words "like", "love" and "hate" when talking about ideas, I'll just say this book presents its ideas on originality and creativity in a palatable way, gives practical advice on how to put them into practice, and connects them to real life examples. It's quickly become one of my non-fiction favorites.
I generally steer clear of anything like self-help books, but after being exposed to some of the ideas in Originals via podcasts and articles, I decided to give it a go.
The reason I dislike self-help books is two fold, 1) it’s typically decent advice that doesn’t merit a whole book and thus becomes self-parody partway through 2) they never acknowledge how much of success is related to factors outside of the reader’s control, because if the reader doesn’t believe this one easy trick will fix their life, they won’t feel good and people won’t buy the book.
Sometimes, human nature works in counterintuitive ways, which means working with people/organizations involves counterintuitive strategies.
It took me about 5% of the book to warm up, but it was a fascinating journey all the way to the end.
Are entrepreneurs risk-takers or calculating risk-taker?
We learn from the careful research of Adam Grant in ORIGINALS that successful entrepreneurs are careful risk-takers.
Instead of jumping off a cliff, these entrepreneurs took calculated risks to begin their business.
For example, everyone likes to talk about how Bill Gates dropped out of Harvard to begin Microsoft.
It was through listening to ORIGINALS, I learned Gates took a calculated risk and a “leave of absence” from Harvard.
It is one of the principles that Grant mentions in his book.I enjoyed listening to this audio book from cover to cover.
Author Adam Grunt's diversified knowledge and analysis for this book is awesome.
From "Creative Destruction" to "Rocking the Boat keep it steady" chapters, he is continuously trying to make us acknowledge "Yes, he is correct" kinda of nod.
Comparative facts like, chrome/Firefox, first born/later born, investors, Rethink/Group think etc are trying to showcase author's well-determined research on it.
I like his gut at few places when he confidently roar about management stuffs.
This book meant " Good Book to me " for it's different approach on routine facts - Originals!
Definitely, I can say " I am convinced to read your rest of the works like give and take etc".
Good job Adam!
A set of interesting stories. In my opinion not all of them are exactly to the point, which I understood as "why it is good to be an original and how to become one". Reminds me of Malcolm Gladwell's style of writing.
Fantastic research, well-presentedAnother classic from Adam Grant. At first, the book started a bit slow before things clicked for me. The principles are practical and ready to be applied which made this a real winner for me.
This is a nonfiction guide to making a meaningful difference, inspiring creativity and finding one’s own gifts. It’s how to be truly different by one of my favorite thinkers.
