https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18023.Hot_Water
Written at the height of his powers ‘Hot Water’ is Wodehouse’s most ambitious farce and certainly his most successful.
Wellington Gedge, Mrs Gedge, Senator Opal, his daughter Jane, Vicomte Blissac and Packy Franklyn and an assortment of domestic staff whom aren’t as domestic as was traditional in the nineteen thirties.In ‘Hot Water’ Wodehouse has raised his own standard and that of farce to he one of the highest rather than lowest of art forms.
Wodehouse’s most overlooked masterpiece, a timeless literary classic.
Mistaken identities.
Compromising letters.
Unfortunate engagements.
Long-lost loves.
Confidence men and safe-blowers and drunk people.
Deliciously absurd and absurdly delicious, this is typical Wodehouse, and I mean that in the best way possible.
There are reasons I love Wodehouse so much, and this book embodies all of them.The only problem with his books is how quickly you get through them, even when you're making an effort to savor them.
Still, in the end, you're left with a warm, satisfied feeling, similar to drinking hot cocoa but not limited to your stomach.
I highly recommend all Wodehouse, but this one in particular is especially lovely.
Jane is engaged to novelist Blair Eggleston but is really in love with Packy Franklyn, a Yale football star.
There are numerous twists and turns and, because of that, the reader perhaps needs to concentrate on the precise details of the plot rather more than is usual with a Wodehouse story.
A good example of Wodehouse's beautifully simple but seductive writing style is this brief extract from chapter 1 of 'Hot Water':'Who's going to be Ambassador to France?' said Mr Gedge, mystified.
'You are', she said."That succinct prose sums up Wodehouse's exquisite way with words and makes reading his stories so pleasurable.
'Hot Water' is a very enjoyable light comedy.
Hot Water (1932) is peak P.G. Wodehouse Much of the story takes place at the Château Blissac in St Rocque (Wodehouse’s fictional Monte Carlo) which makes for an interesting change.
Wodehouse delightfully captures the atmosphere of France in the 1930s.
The plot embraces American senators, English aristocrats, safe crackers, con men, jewel thieves, and a Bloomsbury novelist.
Hot Water contains none of Wodehouse’s regular characters however the various types he often deploys are all present and correct.
No one is quite who they appear which makes keeps this interesting and it is in turns funny, sentimental, and exciting.
Yet more Wodehouse magic.
Excellent. And I finished it again in August of 2017.
I've discovered that the way to enjoy Wodehouse fully is to make sure you read good stretches of him at a sitting: the plots are so intricate that if you read just a few pages before drifting off at night, you are hopelessly stuck as to who was pretending to be whom when you next pick the book up.Anyway, I think this was the most elaborately plotted piece of his I've read, and I'm not going to attempt any sort of summary.
I like this: the plotting really is complicated and it's good to have a breather and be assured that you know what you thought you knew.
But, ignoring this, I thought some of the exposition was more laboured than Wodehouse was at his very best, but the dialogue was as good as usual, and the complicated, but easy to follow, plotting was absolutely stunning, with some good surprises near the end.
So, overall a 4*.The GR blurb is:"At French seaside Château Blissac, J.
Amid confusion of assumed identities and one real undercover detective, 'Packy' Patrick Franklyn, rich ex-Yale footballer, wants Jane Opal to be happy.
Rakish 'Veek' Vicomte de Blissac returns for holiday festival where men drink, fight, and find love - or at least rewards from safebreaking."
Example: there's a little running bit on the theme of an imaginary German sociologist with precise statistics for how young men rejected in love will react.
On a good day Wodehouse could no doubt be hilarious with this, but in fact he just reels off a few labouredly facetiously precise figures for exactly when the person concerned does this and that, and tells it all in lengthy convoluted sentences with the verb right at the end.
This is like flat lager for sheer enjoyment value.
Well, half-flat lager maybe.
Hot Water is a delightful farce set in the north of France at the Chateau Blissac, Brittany and in London, containing a mixture of romance, intrigue and Wodehouse's brand of humor.The story recounts the various romantic and criminal goings-on during a house party, hosted by the Vicomte Blissac. It was another reminder to me what a ‘serious business’ comedy is. Supposedly one of Wodehouse’s more elaborate farces; I appreciated ‘visiting with a very different set of characters—not that I don’t enjoy the usual Blanding’s and Jeeves & Wooster set.Most enjoyable!
Typical brilliant PGW romantic farce. Great stuff. Definite reread!
My first reaction to this book was gratitude.
Gratitude to live in a world that features a comic genius and a word-magician like P.G.W. The second reaction was pity.
Pity that there are still those who are tone-deaf to the sheer wizardry of this brilliant author.
One example will suffice."It serves to keep the records straight, and is a convenience to the public to whom one wants to do the square thing - affording as it does a bird's eye view of the position of affairs to those of his readers who, through no fault of their own, are not birds."Not that the specifics of a given PGW are very relevant but just to dot the i's and dash the t's - the plotting is superlative and the situations are absurd.
Each Wodehouse novel I read is in such top form that it causes a sort of inner turmoil (pleasant as it may be) and puts my rating system into confusion. If this one was better than the last should I have rated the others lower? What's greater than 5? What if I had started here instead of there? Perhaps as with cameras, so with Wodehouse novels: the best one is the one you have in hand. Ratings are arbitrary in the end, I suppose. Needless to say, I found this book firing on all cylinders.
Light hearted fun.
Brilliant. As ever!
A jolly good read from dependable PGW...and so pleasing to know that there are many more where that came from...
Wodehouse is hilarious. A smile on every page!
G. Wodehouse.“Hot Water” is a work testimonial to Wodehouse’s impeccable writing flair.
After Senator Opal’s compromising letter to a bootlegger lands in the custody of Mrs. Gedge, Packy Franklin, an American millionaire and the soon to be son-in-law of the Earl of Stableford, offers to help him and his daughter, Jane, retrieve it.
Each sub-plot is adequately emphasised, just enough to stay relevant without stealing Packy’s thunder.Overall, “Hot Water” is an exceptional comedy that delivers on all fronts – it is hilarious, but not slapstick; the jokes are subtle but don’t get lost between the lines.
This is the most intricately woven Wodehouse that I've read so far.
A bubble map or flow chart type diagram would be required to fully explain the plot.
Yet, somehow, it still feels like the same simple, pleasant, wonderful Wodehouse.
This story finds around a dozen or so characters converging on the Château Blissac.
Nearly everyone has designs on breaking into the Château's safe for one reason or another.
Hilarity ensues as the chaos continues to build until reaching that always fantastic breaking point.
Don't worry though, as with all Wodehouse, everything works out in the end.
One of Wodehouse's best works! The plot was excellent, with a few unexpected twists that made for an exciting read. It also helped that the main character, Packy Franklyn, was thoroughly likeable. Fairly intelligent (unlike Bertie and some of the other young men that Wodehouse commonly portrays), warm-hearted and a 'man of action', his bright ideas enable him to get out of quite a few scrapes and eventually save the day!
The plot gets inextricably entangled towards the end and just when you begin to think that this time PG Wodehouse has overreached himself, he pulls off a fantastic climax and brings about a denouement that leaves everyone happy, satisfied and smiling. Brilliant!
Like Wodehouse's book "French Leave", this is a twist on the usual Wodehouse with a plot centred on Americans in France, no doubt to appeal to his growing American public at that time. The format doesn't work that well for me.
finished it on Friday updated now.
After a harrowing novel or two, I always go back to Wodehouse for a bit of light relief.
Just the quality of the prose, which flows so elegantly mixing deep satire with nonsensical farce in a light way that is so easy to read, makes this worth the read alone.
Add to that some of Wodehouse's most ridiculous coincidences and a brand new range of typecast yet strangely three-dimensional characters, and you have a real gem.For the stalwarts - there are no regulars in this book, and that is no bad thing.
Relax, sit back and just enjoy the usual brand of linguistically wonderful, over-the-top, chaotic humour from a writer at the top of his game.
I found it difficult, at times, to keep track of who was whom, particularly when so many were masquerading as someone else.
By the time I was about three-quarters of the way through I had to re-read the first couple of chapters, as I’d forgotten some of what had happened.The story is a complex farce, and I found it quite amusing in places.
It's written in classic Wodehouse style with literary allusions, unexpected encounters, and some cleverly-written action.
Recommended if you like PG Wodehouse, but although it's considered one of his best works, I personally prefer the Jeeves series.
One of the most underrated books of P.G.Woodehouse. This book has such a convoluted plot that even Woodehouse felt that there was "too much of plot", nevertheless; it makes for an irreproachable humorous story telling experience in the famous technique of his. A casual read which necessitates that the technicalities and feasibilities of such happenings not be taken too seriously. Most characters show a lack of common sense and moral turpitude leading to unpredictable twists and hilarious turns. Do add it to your vacation reading list.
One of his best. Consistently inventive and entertaining throughout the entire book - which you sometimes can't say about him. Very good characterization, and a very complex plot. But it is his prose, especially the dialogue, which is really exemplary and which shows Wodehouse in his best light. The characters in this novel do not appear in any other novels (except for in passing, apparently), so these characters are fresh Wodehouse inventions for this book only, and they really are unique and memorable. I recommend this book to all readers.
Nothing new plot-wise, incorporating, as it does, domineering wives, young people in love, professional criminals, American politicians, and various persons pretending to be what they are not in pursuit of something (in this case, some priceless jewels and a compromising letter). But it represents the author at the top of his form. It is a particularly pleasant novel coming, as it does, directly after three distinctly disappointing Wodehouse opuses, and it is wonderful to find he is still a master of farce.
A wonderful hilarious farce with hijinks throughout. Two couples mismatched a couple of crooks, a chateau in France all add up to laughter. Senator Opal, Packy, a Vicounte and Soup Slattery to name a few characters all add to the laughter. Jewels, blackmail, lots of booze and twists and turns throughout. The wordplay Wodehouse uses is simply superb and funny. A great easy book to read and I can see why he is such a popular author.
(Shared read-aloud.)If you generally like Wodehouse, you'll like this book, too. I wouldn't say it was one of my personal favorites (maybe a bit repetitive at times, too many American characters, lacking the typical English country house setting and the cozily familiar recurring characters), but it was still very good.Hot Water is light and funny, with all the twisty plotting, witty humor, and charm you'd expect from the author.
I randomly picked this up for a quarter at a library sale, best quarter I've ever spent. This book is absolutely hilarious, and a complete breath of fresh air from the normally depressing material I read. The situations these characters get themselves into are just so ridiculous and wacky, all building up to a fantastic climax. I can't wait to read more Wodehouse.
