https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415.Gravity_s_Rainbow
Advice for a first time reader of Gravity's Rainbow:Gravity's Rainbow is a book you either love or hate, and if you hate it it's probably because you couldn't finish the damn thing.
Pynchon's V is shorter and more accessible than Gravity's Rainbow, but addresses the same themes in a similar style.
If you enjoyed V, you will have built up a reserve of goodwill for Pynchon that will carry you through the initial rough patches of Gravity's Rainbow.
As with other famously difficult novels, Gravity's Rainbow's real payoff comes in the rereading, so you shouldn't feel obliged to linger over each passage until it makes sense.
THIS BOOK IS ABOUT A MAN IN WW2 HE GETS ERECTIONS.
‘What is the real nature of control?’ From the first sentence of Pynchon’s National Book Award winning novel, Gravity’s Rainbow, the Reader is transplanted into a threatening world where death strikes first, the cause second. It is a world of frightening realism and comic absurdity, all fueled through drug induced hallucinations, paranoid ramblings, and psychological investigations that is not all that unlike our own reality once you remove yourself to view it from afar as if it were some painti
‘What is the real nature of control?’	From the first sentence of Pynchon’s National Book Award winning novel, Gravity’s Rainbow, the Reader is transplanted into a threatening world where death strikes first, the cause second.
Life and death are found strung together all throughout the novel, yet, as critic Harold Bloom points out in his essays on Rainbow, in Pynchon's book so focused on the idea of Death, the Reader never actually experiences or witnesses one - not one in all of the 800 pages.
The library card in my wallet is like a condom just begging to be used.So yeah, I can now say I've "read" this book.
Oh, come on, I fucking dare you to read this book and not make a single sexual reference while reviewing it.
You know, after I practice a few more times by reading this thing." The strange bit of all that is it doesn't feel like a cross to bear.
And not the losers as actors on the scene of history who are typically unscrupulous leaders who in large part escape responsibility and aftereffects of the ensuing disasters, but rather the “rank and file” who are treated as no more than pawns on history’s chessboard.Pynchon is a complex writer who pulls no punches: GR has a non-linear plot with an elliptical writing style and a myriad of complex characters, sometimes finely described in vividly lit detail like in a painting of Ingres but sometimes barely evoked out of darkness like a self-portrait of Rembrandt.
about the books you’ve read… But me myself, I read for many reasons - among them the opportunity to transcend the narrow window of my own point of view; the chance to learn by a leap, however minimally, over the subjective walls of my own stupid existence; also and especially to inhabit for a few moments the warm pulse of aesthetic bliss and recognition that waves over me whenever a certain sentence or passage hits just so…; at a basic level, to increase my appreciation and understanding of Life, and those artists and thinkers out there striving to contribute to the meaning of human experience, those attempting to bring some beauty or order into the entropic universe and make a little sense out of this mess of a reality we’re stuck in for the duration.
After reading The Crying of Lot 49, Slow Learner and now this, I'm convinced that Thomas Pynchon is a hack, and the reason we don't hear from him is because he has nothing to say and knows that if we gave him a microphone and fifteen minutes he'd be found out.90% of the people who pick up this novel won't finish it, and 90% of those who do won't like it.
But 100% of them will pretend they do because Pynchon has the rare reputation of being one of those authors you "have to read".

You know that very brief moment after you wake up in the morning?
That moment when you're not sleeping but you're not yet awake.
You kind of know what's going but you're not fully aware.
You're in conciousness limbo.
When you read Gravity's Rainbow you fall into this conciousness limbo.
You read the words on the page but they don't all make sense.
You're confused, you don't know what's going on but...
Because you know that this is the greatest novel ever written.
And you'll never read anything like it ever again.
Knowledge, and better yet, a love of knowledge, sheer ecstasy at the mere sight of knowledge, adoration of subjects ranging from geography to organic chemistry to folk lore of cultures other than European to religions other than European to philosophical meanderings upon death and life and lust and shit and piss and the War, the War in none of its popular culture trappings of honor and glory and instead in its vulgar horror of wasted lives and idiotic bashings and the eternal chance of being blown to smitherings no matter if you were suffering in the worst of concentration camps or if you had found some small and precious moment of laughter in these bleak and desperate times, run by Them.
ITS ABOUT A SECRET ROCKET PROJECT IN WW II BUT I THINK SOME OF IT IS A DREAM BECAUSE IT DOESNT MAKE SENSE. THE AUTHOR IS VERY CLEVER.
I dallied with the idea of writing a very short review, saying pithy things like:"I'm glad that's over."or:"Fuck."OR should I go more eloquent: "I'm going to set this day as an anniversary to commemorate why I'll never read this book again."But I think I'll just state that I think I just got post-moderned in the ass.Or I could say some wonderful things about the novel, too, of which there are many, many wonderful things, such a great and funny commentary on WAR, Operant Conditioning, Drug Fiends, Erections, Scatophagy, Porn, Dirty Limericks, Porn, the Physics of rocketry and drug making, Porn, Orgasmo, Porn, and a great scene near the beginning that brought to mind Pink Floyd's The Wall movie with the buttcheeks over London mixed with a sampling of the BLOB and Bananas.
An Approach for Simulating Text Consistent With Gravity’s Rainbow Technical Report issued 6 July 2012 by the Simulation Lab Originating Text-based Handiwork (SLOTH) While the exact algorithm used by Pynchon (1973) to produce Gravity’s Rainbow (henceforth GR) was never documented, we contend that the method proposed in this paper is, on average, in a repeated sampling context, observationally equivalent. As is true of any simulation, there is a deterministic component and a random component. Sim
Such an approach differs from ours in that their structure is more narrowly defined, allowing insufficient latitude to characterize the chaotic and disorienting nature of GR.The input parameters to our simulation will, by default, result in 4 sections, 73 chapters, over 400 characters (mostly minor, wordplayfully named), and 776 pages, just as the original did.
By applying noise terms to the narrative, comprehension will vary throughout.Text Generating ProcessThe backbone of our simulation structure is established in the initial step.
Draws from this set of transformed and re-adumbrated insights inserted into S3 give us S4.Stylistic modifications to S4 are important when attempting to simulate the GR experience.
En la relación de Enzian con sus subordinados y su confrontación con los Vacíos se puede apreciar claramente la dualidad entre el Bien y el Mal, como asimismo la autodestrucción humana que impregna en su totalidad la atmósfera bélica de la Segunda Guerra Mundial.Otros de los contenidos habituales del genio norteamericano (frecuentemente tratados con un humor tan bueno que es hasta posible terminar con una subluxación de costilla) son el sexo impúdicamente estrambótico (a veces excesivo, sin embargo), la manipulación de la entropía, ciencia real y contemplativa (en este caso le tocó el turno a la psicología conductista, más precisamente a la experimentación pavloviana), estupefacientes y sus respectivas secuelas alucinógenas, y un largo y variado etcétera.
HA!This one's for you Slothrop & Bodine (I had no idea that there actually were zoot suit riots!
Yawn… Okay, so I don’t think he actually screwed any farm animals, but he did just about everything else.
Oh yeah, there’s a war going on…When sir Slothrop isn’t getting laid, some interesting ideas are presented.
Uh, or something *wink.*(I’m going to go now and drop some acid and read this thing again.) ***********************Casting for the part of Slothrop:Or:Or finally:**A note to those who wish to read this book: it should come with a warning label DO NOT READ WHILE EATING.
I read it over the course of around three months, on my fourth attempt, when I was living in Tallinn, Estonia.
I would bring it to lunch at the bars where I dined and start crying into my club sandwich when the book was sad and laughing into my kebabs when it was funny (which is nearly always) and there are a lot of bartenders who probably thought I was crazy.The first rule of Gravity's Rainbow is you do not talk about Gravity's Rainbow.
Just read it and don't worry about all the things you don't get.
It teaches you how to read itself.
I think reading and reviewing this book requires taking on some extra baggage because it...well, I don't actually need to explain why or else Gravity’s Rainbow wouldn't have this baggage in the first place.
Another general issue Gravity’s Rainbow has me mulling over is: how legitimate is it to construct a book that includes hundreds of allusions the vast majority of well-read, well-educated people will be unable to grasp without a serious study of the text and outside sources?
Initially, the difficulty of reading Gravity’s Rainbow centers on the disorienting nature of character and plot introductions, as Pynchon places you into scenes and conversations with no instructions or compass.
I’ve compiled for your amusement a report of the number of times certain words appear in the text (please try to suppress your natural impulse to giggle uncontrollably):Breasts – 33Buttocks – 23 Clit/Clitoris – 25Cock – 81 Cunt – 26Erect/Erection – 45 Fuck/Fucking – 108 Hardon – 28Masturbate – 14 Penis – 40Semen – 27 Sperm – 14Thigh – 53 Tits – 10The point here is not to admonish Pynchon for his use of profanity (which I don’t have a problem with), but to demonstrate just how fixated the book is on the subject.
Then I had to concede I simply don’t like Pynchon’s writing style, period.
William raised this point in his review of The Tunnel—you’re helpless against an author’s crystalline prose if you simply can’t stomach his particular talent for arranging squiggles.
Also, the point of view shifts from the ice-cold third-person narrator to the internal states of the dozen or so interchangeable characters with equally stupid names for no particular reason I could fathom for those sixty-nine pages.
there simply wasn’t enough cohering for me in the style, and books that warm up around page 467 are not my bag.
Can you imagine him being interviewed on CNN?In one humorous scene (I think Pynchon makes fun of himself a lot), Slothrop, the main character, feels lust towards a pig.
We are introduced to several minor characters in the beginning---"Pirate" Prentice, Osbie Feel, and Teddy Bloat (don't you love the names?) They might all live in the same house (this, like much else in this novel, is unclear).
Notably, they are administering truth serum and interviewing him on subjects like racial tension in the U.S.BTW, Pynchon uses the color white a lot throughout the book to symbolize death (as it does in many cultures).
And having circumnavigated this literary Everest, victorious, but a little delirious and oxygen deprived, the finish liners now take positions for a whole new battle.
These hundreds of blog voices out there, with no one to hear.....But the pitch has fervored me: mob rule and all that.
Cause I’ve been having poppy seed bonanzas for a long time now and I’m peaking: I’m dead hungry and Gravitys Rainbow is just a’ ghost in the machine’.To begin somewhere, I call my 13 year old niece to the stand.
Too late to the ball for a good time.
It has taken me forever, and I dropped it for other, less infuriating books over and over again.
At some point, when I was over 500 pages into the story (if you can call it a story), I decided that I had to finish it, simply to have it off my to-read-shelf.
I have struggled with books before: Ulysses is not easy, neither is Marcel Proust or Dante's Commedia.
300 pages of raging chaos at the end of World War Two would have been enough to start that da...
Gravity is working hard on that brick of a book.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.On Preterition: "Gravity's Rainbow" by Thomas PynchonI think I found it difficult in the sense of its denseness in fact.
Well, I find it hard to answer the “difficulty” question with much certainty; I'm equivocating.
There are parts that I prefer immeasurably to others however, simply because I prefer I'm not sure whether that persuades me that it would be 'better' in some sense without them.
I think you notice this as you read it, right?More stuff on the other side of Gravity's Well.
Recipient of my 2017 "Rod of Priapus"For Artsy Outside (Book Jacket Design) covering Multiple Scenes of an Overly Gratuitous Quantity of Vile, Lascivious and Highly Perverted Sex WithinFine Art Painting of Priapus, Minor Greek god of fertility and male genitaliaFine Art Sculpture of Priapus, currently on view at Boston Museum of Fine ArtI Am Obviously a Simple Man, Surely I'm Sickened*More PSA/Editorial than Review: Should You Read this Without Nauseation, You May Disregard ItWarning: I've sanitized one description as much as reasonably possible, yet it still may make you physically sick.This novel won the National Book Award in 1973.
"Be sick and bedridden and read the whole thing through with no interruptions, and when you're done, flip back to page one and do the whole thing again."And I get it: that would indeed be a good way to understand this drunken maelstrom of a book.
And Pynchon's the only guy I can think of who can include song lyrics in his book and they're actually cool.
Look, it's probably the best 800-page book about Nazis and dicks I've ever read, and please don't make me read The Kindly Ones.Still, though.
This is my third Pynchon book; I think I get the idea, and it's not really my favorite idea.
1 star for readers who require things like "plot" and "accessibility" in their books — silly readers!2 stars for readers who just don't "get it".3 stars for readers who probably also don't get it, but would rather not infuriate 1-star and 5-star readers by rating too low or too high.4 stars for readers who value writing over narrative, plus more erections (both literal and figurative) than you can shake a stick at.5 stars for TRUE masochists and/or readers who may just wish to appear hipper/smarter than they actually are.I get all the criticisms this book receives, I really do, but I'm glad that it was written and I'm glad I got the chance to read it (thanks, Jenn).
Disclaimer 2) I willingly admit that I have no idea what the hell I just read.Disclaimer 3) I did not read this with a companion text, [if that's totally prerequisite for enjoyment then, really?] though I did find myself occasionally using the Pynchon Wiki, and googTranslate.
I’ve just done the English sweets scene which was splendid though there’s the obligatory slipshod lack of editing: “his tongue a hopeless holocaust” – is that “hopeless” funny or just absurd?
I think maybe it’s his vision which is his problem.
For starters this, like the other book of his I’ve read, is rife with paranoia.
I think another problem is, he sets out by asking us to believe that this might be one of the greatest books ever written – which it patently isn’t.
Once though one has recycled these misgivings there’s masses of excitement to be derived from his writing.
Well, there is a protagonist: it is the ominous SG-00000 rocket – an epicenter of evil, a mysterious artifact Tyrone Slothrop is looking for, but it hides from us until the end of the book.“…and now, in the Zone, later in the day he became a crossroad, after a heavy rain he doesn't recall, Slothrop sees a very thick rainbow here, a stout rainbow cock driven down out of pubic clouds into Earth, green wet valleyed Earth, and his chest fills and he stands crying, not a thing in his head, just feeling natural…”In this cosmic way, the Earth gets fertilized for the future…“Well.
I pondered whether Pynchon's twentieth-century could best be described as the thousand-fold madnesses of man—in the thrall of brilliant technologies hatched from his own rational mind, many of them mass-murder machines—the paranoia and irrationality, the dissipation of his spirit and sanity born of being forced to stare that mighty, slow-moving tsunami Death full-on into his fathomless, inert, coal-mine eyes without any sense of surety or stable footing whatsoever; of the observer and abyss sharing an eternal kiss of gazes, now that the concealing curtain has been consumed in firing the ovens.
