https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160629.A_Bear_Called_Paddington
Okay Goodreads Recommendation Engine, I know you're just trying to get us into trouble again... but it'll be fun! I'm in. And bring a jar of marmalade.
When the first trailer for that awful-looking Paddington movie appeared, my kids asked about Paddington and I described him in glorious detail and then I .
I knew that Paddington was a book, I had always known this.
If you're not familiar with the Paddington cartoon, you really must find it!
the people are hand drawn, with minimal colors, while Paddington stands out as an actual stuffed bear.
But of course I promised my kids I would get the first book and read it to them, and so I have!
This summer, I am attempting to balance my reading with some lighter fare. This is the perfect antidote to the intensity of the winter's books. Fun, frolicking, fantasy! What a wonderful bear!
This is a children’s book, so I wouldn't recommend it to anyone now, but it is a good book I can’t say I would recommend it to anyone now, but for children it is a fun, exciting read.
I was in love with Paddington; I wished my parents would find a bear like that at the train station.
“It doesn’t seem a very exciting story,” he said, impatiently.
He reached across and poked Paddington with his pipe.
“Well I never,” he said, “I do believe he’s fallen asleep!”That is one of the many reasons why I loved this book (as much as 8 year old me could love something).
This is a story for a child, not for the adult reading to a child.
Isn’t it best when both the child and adult get a kick out of the shared reading experience?The writing is ordinary, as is the content of the stories.
For a young child, the book may be fun, reading about a world they recognize.
He may be from the Darkest Peru, but he sees the world as they do.After an excursion to London, a child may enjoy the book.
A child will have no trouble understanding, but yet again, the reading was all very ordinary.
And I hope that you will read it so you know.
I guess I'm just another fan of yours, but I thought I'd write and tell you so.You made me love you.
You made me love you, and all the time you knew it.
You know you made me love you.Aw gee, Paddington, I don't want to bother you.
But gosh, you love marmalade!
I love marmalade, too.
Paddington...if for any reason...well, if for any reason the Browns decide you can't continue to live with them, you can come here.
You know you made me love you.
So I read this book for my bookclub RECS... and no it wasn't someone else who chose it, it was me!!! :DI really wish that Paddington had been introduced to me as a child, because even as an adult the cuteness got to me. There are 8 stories in this collection. My favourites were when Paddington screwed up the Underground, when he went shopping and the story with the painting. It was all very amusing, and just took me back to innocent times in my life. If you're a parent, then please introduce Paddington Bear to your children. :)
We meet Paddington for the first time at Paddington station where he sits, small and lonely, on his suitcase, wondering what to do after having travelled all the way from Darkest Peru in a lifeboat, surviving on a jar of marmelade.Luckily, he meets the Browns who take him in, feed him, care for him - and help him whenever he gets into trouble.I think the highest recommendation I can give for this book and for sweet little Paddington is, that I made my boyfriend laugh so hard he cried just by me retelling the adventures of Paddington.Loved this book!
I really thought this was going to be a picture book when I borrowed it from the library, but it ended up being considerably longer than expected and quite delightful. It’s funny that I’ve bought a Paddington Bear from the station once but had never read the books.
I had my first taste of Paddington Bear when I was 7 years old and read the first story.
I loved it then and I still love it now.
It's always nice to revisit childhood classics - and this is definitely one I'm glad I picked up again.
It's like when you rewatch a kids movie that you haven't seen since you were young - you pick up on so many things that you didn't notice back then.
I don't care that I am 21, I love this story.
Michael Bond was a truly gifted man, and deserved his Paddington Statue.
This is a lovely, charming story about a bear from Darkest Peru (TM) who lands at Paddington Station and is taken home by an average, middle-class London family.
I never read these books as a child, but I watched the TV series (which is lovely) and I've been meaning to watch the films.
In an afterword to the edition I read, Michael Bond writes that he didn't set out to write a children's book, and it shows.
That said, it seems pretty clear that the current editions have been updated since the original 1958 version.
Cute and fun but I still prefer Winnie-the-Pooh over Paddington bear. Why am I comparing the two? Probably because they are both sweet, clean, classical, type reads about bears. I've always loved Winnie-the-Pooh though, the charm to the stories, and all of the lovable characters. This felt a little boring in comparison; at least that's what I kept kept thinking while I was listening to the audio. This would be a fun audio or read aloud for kids though. My girls had fun listening to it while I did the dishes at night.
original read: 2005
Velmi roztomilé! A teď hurá na film!
One of my older sisters named them: one was called Paddington, the other, Bear.
As the puppies got older, Bear decided he wanted to go out on the farm and learn to be a sheepdog like Tess.
Tess though had this awful habit of, instead of obeying instructions and rounding up the sheep, she would race in front of the ute or the tractor, barking and snapping at the front tyres.Bear learned from her.
When I was a child, I was never introduced to Paddington Bear and there was one bear in my life and that was Winnie The Pooh.
A Bear Called Paddington is an absolutely adorable book with such superb illustrations and a humorous main character, this is a book that parents and children will enjoy alike.
I can definitely see why Paddington has become world-renowned and why countless people have already fallen in love with the bear from Darkest Peru.
A Bear Called Paddington is such a fantastic book that truly transcends it's young age group and is a book that can be enjoy by 3 year olds or 83 year olds.
I love bears, and the idea of this super-polite but oft-in-trouble brown bear from Darkest Peru is one that instantly resonates.
I must have read this a thousand times, and just like Winnie-the-Pooh (another bear), it’s one I could read every day forever.What’s actually lovely about it is that Paddington isn’t your goodie-two-shoes innocent bear.
The book is chapter after chapter of Paddington Brown getting into scrapes and then clawing his way out of them.
It’s marvellous fun to sit back and watch the harmless japes of a different kind of ‘silly old bear’.
Found it funny when I was a kid.
I wanted to revisit this book after enjoying the recent films.
I found it a charming read, with adventure, surprises and comic moments.
A useful read for people of today, as it tells the story of how Paddington comes to live in a foreign country not understanding how things work, but is taken in and shown great kindness by the Brown family.
He has excellent manners, speaks good English and always means well ( although numerous disasters occur).
Therefore, everyone invariably grows to love him and he enriches peoples lives.
I wish I could find a bear like Paddington at the station, to bring home.
This is my Paddington... Awwww ...nostalgia...wonderfully narrated by Stephen Fry...this made me smile :)
In memory of the author who died yesterday, I gave my first Paddington book a try. It didn't go so well. I hate children's literature— but I am in my sixth decade so give me a break. LOL. I think I'll pull the Ted movie DVD off the shelf and enjoy it instead.
Love Paddington.
So cute!
4 saoBan đâu minh chi châm cuôn nay 3,5 sao thôi nhưng sau đo lai thây như vây thi khăc khe qua nên cho no 4 sao luôn.Đây la cuôn sach đâu tiên vê chu gâu Paddington, gôm co 8 câu chuyên nho.
Mây truyên đâu noi thât la minh không thich chu ta cho lăm vi đi đên đâu Paddington cung gây ra môt mơ hôn loan ơ nơi đo.
Du luc nao kêt thuc tro pha hoai cua câu cung vô tinh mang đên kêt qua bât ngơ, nhưng kiêu truyên như vây chi thich hơp vơi đôi tương tre nho, vôn thich pha phach va cung thân tương nhưn
Còn đứng ở vị trí một người đọc trưởng thành thì mình lại thấy hình tượng chú gấu Paddington như thế có phần phiền nhiễu, không dễ mến chút nào, và cách giải quyết vấn đề của tác giả cứ như vậy cũng không ổn cho lắm.Nhưng từ câu chuyện thứ 4 trở đi thì mình mới nhận ra ý đồ tác giả khi tạo ra hình tượng nhân vật Paddington, hiểu rằng nguồn gốc những rắc rối cậu gây ra đều hoàn toàn xuất phát từ sự hồn nhiên, vô tư trước xã hội con người còn mới mẻ với cậu.
Nigdy nie byłam fanką Kubusia Puchatka, a dzięki dzieciom dowiedziałam się, że Miś Paddington także nie znalazł miejsca w moim sercu.
Nie wiem.
Najważniejsze jednak, że synowi książki się podobały i namawiał mnie stale na kontynuację lektury.
Zresztą jak na Paddingtona reagują inni także jest ciekawe - mówiący i żyjący jak człowiek niedźwiedź nikogo nie zaskakuje.
Ma on bowiem tę niezwykłą przypadłość wplątywania się w najgorsze tarapaty.
Wszystko to dzieje się mimochodem i niechcący, a efekt zawsze jest fenomenalny.
Sam Paddington nie wie, jakim cudem udaje mu się ze wszystkich tarapatów wyjść obronną ręką.Ciąg dalszy:https://przeczytalamksiazke.blogspot....
Libro acquistato subito il primo dell’anno, in circostanze straordinarie (leggasi tentativo di andar
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu ....................................A fost o dată un ursuleț venit din întunecatul Peru care mânca marmeladă de portocale în gara Paddington. Un domn, Brown, și o doamnă, tot Brown, l-au îndrăgit de cum l-au văzut. L-au îndrăgit atât de tare încât l-au luat acasă și l-au numit Paddington după numele gării în care s-au întâlnit. Și Paddington i-a iubit la rândul pentru că este un ursuleț deosebit de civilizat, dar care intră mai tot timpu
Și Paddington i-a iubit la rândul pentru că este un ursuleț deosebit de civilizat, dar care intră mai tot timpul în belele.
Nu ai cum să te superi pe Paddington chiar dacă-ți inundă casa sau de nu-i iese un truc magic și-ți distruge ceasul de mână la care ții ca la ochii din cap.Paddington este un fel puști neastâmpărat, singura diferență fiind că micul șturlubatic e acoperit de blană.
Din fericire, Paddington reușește întotdeauna să scape din poznele pe care le face pentru că este mult prea simpatic, amuzant și nevinovat ca să te superi pe el.
It made it very easy to read and the stories do build upon what we already know about Paddington and the Brown's.In some places the book was quite dated and I feel some children would not pick up on this but the ones which do would need a bit more explanation as to why certain things happen, for instance, why Paddington gets a photo taken of himself at the beach by someone, therefore historical elements could be explored with ties to children's own family history etc.
I think my mum has photos of many of her British beach holidays when she was little.
After reading "All the Bright Places" *still crying*, the story about Paddington was rally good choice. This book was funny and sweet, and it made me laugh-that's what I really needed :))
Have fond memories of reading this as a child.Loved re-reading.Wonderful stories!
