https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76935.The_Crisscross_Shadow
Reading this as an adult, this is just an "okay" read for me.
I was entertained for a while, and it was an easy read.
I like going back & visiting children's classics, in case I ever have kids of my own.
I like that it takes you back to a simpler time.
Although I probably won't re-read this anytime soon, it was a fun & entertaining read.
I honestly wanted to keep reading to find out what would happen, even though this is one of those where you know everything will work out in the end.
I'm starting to realise again that Fenton Hardy doesn't do his job. Instead he seems to set his kids up with investigations he claims have no bearing on his own work, then sits back and waits for the boys to realise that the two cases are connected. This story seemed to have more depth to it - in fact if you read between the lines it was an interesting parable on how Native Americans have been screwed out of their land because they can't find the papers proving they own. One of the better tales, I thought.
I haven't read a Hardy Boys novel in a long time (though I used to burn through them pretty regularly) but a friend recommended this so I thought I'd give it a read.
I am a bit surprised to find one that I haven't read but I really don't remember this one.
It did play well to my sense of nostalgia and made me reminisce on my younger years and summer reading programs in the heat of the afternoon at the air conditioned library.
While my childhood is probably not as idyllic as I remember the book certainly is and is still an enjoyable read.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Kind of an interesting book but I always feel like the titles with the "signs" or "shadows" or "marks" are never as good as they should be. The reservation bits weren't totally up my alley either.
Having read the Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys books when I was a kid, when I came across them at a recent booksale I decided to try them out on my eleven year old reluctant reader.
Not having the patience to read in this slow manner, I have reread it by myself.
Unfortunately, with maturity, comes a dimming of the appreciation of such fine adventure where teenage boys are encouraged into dangerous situations by mothers, aunts and the police, with only a simple "Well take care of yourself, boys.
Of course, the Hardy Boys will always come out on top.
Entry 1-Frank, Joe, Chet,and Mr. Hardy are the main characters and protagonists.
The antagonists are the people trying to take the RRampans property and stealing the Indian Articals.
Entry 3-Miles Kamp is leader of a group of sabatouers that were terrorizzing the U.S. They wanted too use the Rampans pproperty for the plots as a hideout since it was so secluded, but Chief Whitestone didn't give up, even when the deeds are burned up.
The Hardy's go in search of the missind deed to restore the Rampans' property and succeed in taking out the whole gang.
I am about 3/4 through this book.
So far I am having trouble understandingThe two main characters in the book are brothers named Joe and Frank Hardy.They go in search for the rampatan indian tribe to find a man selling illegal leather.
When they found it they were surprised to find houses instead of teepees.
But they did not have electricity.
Then someone hit Frank in the head with a blunt object.
They think it is the man they were looking for.
I don't like this book because it doesn't make sense to me.
I am still going to finish reading it.
There are so many new adventures that easy-going readers like to learn from the Hardy Boys series. The main characters take on many different cases, like when Frank and Joe discover where the key case was made because it was the kind of key case that a man sold to their mother. When they find the deed to their property along with different treasures, they solved their mystery just like in every other book. This is why The Hardy Boys is one of my favorite book series that I don't feel worn out from putting each one down.
The Crisscross Shadow was an exciting book. I thought the basic idea was very good and seemed to just grab you. At times I got lost and had to re-read a paragraph or two, but overall a wonderful book.
American Indian tribe under threat of losing their land to some evil gangsters are stopped in their tracks by the amazing brothers and their intrepid father...
read when I was 10 through 13
..uhhm.. great!
Finished another book in the series that I am reading to my 10 year old son. Great father-son time!
This review is of the original 25 chapter book.
Picked this book up out of a traveling book bin in California and took my time reading it. it was cute and gave me something to read...
In which the Hardy boys are at their most violent, their least constitutional, and their most GOD MOM SHUT UP AND LET US HAVE FUN.
The Hardy Boys help thier father solve a case
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
Dixon, Franklin W.
My book was published in 1969 and has the 1969 cover.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11867623
Not that fond of the Hardy Boys, but I read it as a kid.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
This one was cool to me, especially because Iw as big into Scouting and the outdoors.
