https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820461.The_Greek_Myths
The literary quality of these retellings is generally praised.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم ماه 2015 میلادیعنوان: جهان اسطوره ها؛ نویسنده: رابرت گریوز و دیگران؛ مترجم: ابوالقاسم اسماعیل پور؛ تهران، جامی؛ 1393؛ در 720 ص، مصور؛ واژه نامه دارد، شابک: 9786001761119؛ موضوع: اساطیر یونانی - سده 20 ماسطوره، در دیدگاه پدیدارشناسی، روایتگر آفرینش، پیدایش، و سرگذشت خدایان باستان، جهان‌ بینی و فرجام شناسی اقوام، و ملتهاست.
اسطوره تاریخ مینوی و مقدس کیهانی و بسیار راز آمیز، و حقیقتی ست زنده، که در دوران آغازین رخ داده، و از آن پس، جهان و سرنوشت آدمیان را، زیر بال و پر تأثیر خویش، قرار داده است.
Sometimes names were changed (as when Aphrodite became Venus or Odysseus Ulysses); sometimes they were actually spelled differently (as when Asclepius became Aesculapius); sometimes no changes at all were made, so that stories with a particular Green location (such as the spring of Hippocrene near Thebes, created when the winged horse Pegasus stamped his hoof on a rock) were accepted quite happily by people who had never otherwise heard of, or seen, the originals.”So really all one can do about this rather complicated book as I’ve done is to concentrate on for example, Pandora, as she fascinates me, to begin with and find out who she’s related to (which in itself is like being on an odyssey) and working out from there as if I were a spider on the web awaiting my next “kill”.The Greek God Hermes (Mercury to the Romans and the son of Zeus), I have a particular fondness for.
This is one of the gems I discovered, and purchased for a pittance, during my professional college days (1980-85).The old "Current Books" bookshop was an institution in Thrissur.
It was located in a very old building, with rows and rows of shelves and books arranged in no particular order.
They now have an air-conditioned store where the books are arranged alphabetically in neat rows, and you can enquire for a particular tome and it will pop up on the computer.
It opened a whole new vista for me.Graves analyses mythology in strict historical context.
When this edition says it's the complete and definitive edition of the Greek Myths it truly means it!! Well worth the hefty price tag and a book I will be consulting over and over and over again.
Although Graves makes use of folkloric, ethnographic, historic and archaeological sources in interpreting the myths they all appear to have already been out of date in the 1950's (when he wrote this book) and, worse, the sources themselves are not referenced.
Since Graves was happy to present his own ideas in the footnotes as well and all the supporting evidence and theories he uses are not referenced it's impossible to sort his own fancies from others'.
It's also notable that all of the sources he does present conform to his own ideas - a further sign of his writing to an agenda (Murray influenced or not).
This also means that you can pick and choose what you want to read without having to flip through the whole book - ideal for people only interested in certain characters/myths.
I also want to note that I will always love the story of the birth of Aphrodite.
In short, it's Noah's Ark before there was Noah's Ark. Makes you wonder how original that bible story is.One last comment, I found it interesting to think about whether or not these myths influenced morality - or at least tried to influence it.
THE GREEK MYTHS. (1945; rev. 1960; this ed. 1996). Robert Graves. ****. This work was first published by Penguin Books in 1955, and later revised by the author in 1960. I bought a copy of the two-volume paperback edition sometime in the late 1960s and found that it was almost unreadable – primarily because of the voluminous footnotes and interjections by the author. This edition (Folio Society; two-volumes) takes the 1960 edition and removes the distraction of the footnotes, combining all of the
For his sources he read and researched all of the original materials available to us that have come down from the classical times, in addition to the modern (in his time) commentaries that scholars had issued over the years.
His real intent was to tell the stories of the various Greek myths in a way that would make them accesabible to the general reader in a format that did not repel him.
Graves himself made use of these myths in much of his writing as an inspiration for a variety of story lines.
His commentaries after each entry provides his sources and also the correlation of the particular myth with other mythis lore from other societies.
The table of contents provides 171 different myth titles to choose from, but if that doesn’t help you find a particular reference, the index at the end of the second volume will help you locate the relevant myths that touch upon a particular name or subject.A second way to use the book is to simply browse until you find a myth that interests you and spend some time reading about it and its variations.
Another way to use this book is to simply read it to gain an overall understanding of Greek myths.
This would be an invaluable tool to an academic but as some one who only wanted to read and enjoy the stories I skipped all that and consequently probably only read half the near 750 pages.
Also, in order to be academic each character is given their lineage which in a cast of thousands becomes tiresome.
As I said previously with this being aimed at the academic I guess it’s not quite the book for those who just want to enjoy the highly entertaining stories that mythology represents.
Read when I was 18 or 19 and an ever-present backdrop to all of my reading thereafter. Followed naturally from the Bernard Evslin, D'Aulaire's Greek Myths, and Edith Hamilton's Mythology of childhood.
I am also completely comfortable navigating my way around the book, starting from either the table of contents or index, reading the actual myth(s), the source citations, and then exploring Graves' notes and comments.
Now, whether one buys into all of the notions put forth by Graves in his commentaries, I'll leave that up to each reader to make up his or her mind, but I think he's on to something here--like I said, it just seems to make sense.I think that the myths of ancient Greece are important, and will continue to be.
Opera affatto didascalica o pedante, è corredata da note preziose che uniscono la mitologia greca a quella micenea ed aria.Pur essendo improntata a una ormai superata concezione antropologica e storico-religiosa di un primevo matriarcato, la classifico tra gli imperdibili perchè narra in toto la mitologia dell'Ellade, la quale, a sua volta, altro non è che la trasposizione, onirica e quindi immaginifica, delle paure, dei desideri e delle esigenze del nostro inconscio.
Dicono sia la versione colta di niente affatto, io la preferisco comunque a quest'ultimo ;-) charta ha detto il Jan 16, 2012  Credo che nessuna parola in nessuna lingua possa/debba esprimere un concetto ma anche, veltronianamente, il suo contrario.
The second book gets deeper into the actual mythological stories such as Jason and the Argonauts, Heracles, the Trojan War, and Odysseus.It is a very interesting read for those interested in Greek mythology, but again it is closer to a “Who's Who” of mythology and Classical Literature and not the full stories.
If you are looking for stories with heroes fighting monsters I would suggest you look elsewhere, however if you are looking a deeper understanding of where the characters you know (and either love or hate) come from and interacted with the world, this is for you.
Alright I actually like this book a lot because unlike Bulfinch's Mythology, this book delivers what you're looking for. It actually has the Greek Myths in a style that is understandable and for entertainment purposes. You'll get the whole stories here and they are easy to read!
Graves has pulled together an exhaustive compilation of Greek myths, arranged by themes, and provides short commentary on their history as well as documentation on where and when they appear.
I have been a fan of Robert Graves since reading I, Claudius in college.
I also read a range of hisotrical fiction set in ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome.
Often myths of the time period are important elements of the story line.
I had a cursory knowledge base of the basic myths.
I'm glad I read this, as I think it will provide an extra layer of understanding in reading future historical fiction work.
4.5 stars
El delirio sigue, y repito, es muy lindo de imaginar, pero si bien a lo largo de todo el libro Robert Graves vive exponiendo sus fuentes, en el caso de esta introducción (que además servirá de base interpretativa para el resto del libro) no nos dice absolutamente nada, expone, digamos, su teoría, su versión, con expresiones como "Parece ser" (sic).
La verdad es que Graves es un autor que puede servir para introducir sobre ciertos detalles de la mitología griega, para contarnos por arriba los diferentes acontecimientos, e inclusive para introducir más de una curiosidad, pero la ausencia de rigor de sus propuestas vuelve a este libro una especie de pantomima.
See reviews to Part I and Part II. I'll probably get around to combining a full review of the whole Graves/Greek thingy, but I've got other books to hump and other stories to ride.
Totally boring.
Each chapter consists of three parts: the first part contains a retelling of a myth (sometimes multiple version thereof) divided into paragraphs that are labelled alphabetically; the second part contains references that appeared as numbered footnotes in the first part; the third part contains Graves’s commentary, also divided into paragraphs, though labelled numerically.The myths are comprehensive and comprehensible, if at times dense with names.
That said, enthusiasts will find it an excellent overview and a window into the less “famous" stories (“Cleobis and Biton" anyone?) and a starting reference point that will lead to other sources (Apollodrus, Herodotus, Pausanias etc.) I set aside the criticism of Graves's commentary, as I am not qualified to assess it.
I would suggest you not read it cover to cover as I did, but grab an interesting that grabs your attention.It is supplied with copious illustrations of Greek representations of the various mythic persons.Greek myths seem to have total disregard for any ethical guidelines in the behavior of any of the characters, a problem remarked on frequently by the ancient Greeks themselves.
They do have a certain richness of detail and fantasy, and I think most of the emphasis is on how characters solve their problems.
So problem solving and ingenuity in unfamiliar situations features frequently.
Robert Graves writes the myths in a few paragraphs which do more to "telling" then to "showing" the myths.
A lot of this is book is putting facts behind the myths, where one might confuse what is real with what wasn't.
There is also that it is claimed Robert Graves was attached to the early forming of "wicca" (his novel "The White Goddess") so may have shaped his "Greek history" and the "facts behind myths" to those budding beliefs.
Yet for a resource book, it's very good, if one ignores what Robert Graves attempts as history to explain myth and ancinet religions.
The condensation from two thick volumes into one sparse, illustrated book dashes any hope of narrative flow, of course, but the crucial facts are here for the reader.
The myths are also refreshingly not bowdlerized.However, possibly due to the prose cuts, the reader is given no historical or psychological explanations for the myths (of what significance is Athene’s birth from Zeus’ head?
Certainly due to the cuts, names and events are sometimes dropped with no prior or future explanation given.
On a more quibbling note, while the contemporary art serves nicely as illustrations to the myths, I wished the age of the art had been given.
If it was all mortals and no gods, it'd read like some great sprawling ancient soap opera.
And people like family sagas.
It was all going well for (insert brave mortals here), then Zeus killed em all.
Or. It was all going well for (insert lone mortal here), then Zeus turned him into a tree/swan/flower.
The abandoned baby (again, take your pick, there are so many) grows up in secret and then kills his dad.
Every time.Each tale starts so intriguingly, so promisingly and yet ultimately they end, in most cases, as if the Greek god of Editing demanded a quick conclusion.
Graves ha ricercato e letto ogni testo classico sull'argomento così come diversi libri di critica a lui contemporanei.
Ha tratto le sue conclusioni (che hanno travolto tutto quello che sapevo di mitologia greca) e ha lavorato isolato su di un'isola greca alla composizione di quest'opera non solo trascrivendo tutte le storie, ma dandogli un'ordine grosso modo cronologico e arricchendo e solidificando l'opera con note alla fine di ciascuna leggenda che riportano non solo i testi originali da cui lui ha tratto la storia, ma anche altre in cui lui spiega/critica quello che sta succedendo nel mito - con chiavi di lettura (come scrivevo sopra) sconvolgenti, ma solide, intelligenti ed interessantissime.
an excellent place to go for exploration of the Greek myths. This book has been especially helpful to me since Graves very accurately lists the ancient sources he used for each myth...then there's that little star followed by his own interpretation and comments. If you need to write a paper on the subject it's the book to have. I haven't read it cover to cover, but I think I've gotten to just about every myth via the index
A very interesting look at the Greek myths and comparative mythology. It makes a fine reference for interpreting mythology with somewhat of a historical perspective and giving a view of influences upon Greek myth. It suffers a bit from Graves's own prejudices and 'goddess' oriented beliefs, but overall it is a small flaw. I am in process of re-reading and adding notes for my own future reference. Graves's style is easy to read and enjoyable.
some ultra vires & original content here, so the reliability of the whole must be considered.
This is the book http://www.24grammata.com/wp-content/...
A superb and comprehensive account of the Greek myths, including some very obscure variants, with lots of interesting insights on their anthropological and ritual origins.
