https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900065.The_Berenstain_Bears_and_the_Messy_Room
this book was one of my favorites as a child. it made me feel that anything was possible. and now, living as i do, crammed into my tiny apartment with several thousand books and an alarming number of stuffed animals and knickknacks for a woman my age...well - i could stand to re-learn the lesson. i long for tidiness, but i need more square footage.
Ha, read this to the kids and they both said that I need to clean my room. It is a mess. There are books piled on everything and notebooks and papers and mail. Boxes. This is a nice little message to myself that a clean space does fill good. Maybe I can clean it this weekend. The kids enjoyed this book. These books from the 70s and 80s are the best of the Berenstain Bears. Brings back much nostalgia reading them. Brings back feelings of coziness and safety.
Just looking at the title of this, and other Berenstain books of similar vintage, such as The Berenstain Bears Forget Their Manners, The Berenstain Bears and Too Much TV, The Berenstain Bears and Too Much Junk Food, or The Berenstain Bears Learn About Strangers, you know you're in for a lecture. How the gleeful anarchy of Bears in the Night became a propaganda mill for bourgeois Standards and Practices is a sad story that indicts us all. Even the deaths of the original cartoonists can't stop their shop from oozing out more treacle. Unendurable.
i remember that my dad bought me this book b/c my room was always a mess. i just ended up shoving everything in my closet and under my bed. now though, i have learned the lesson of the bears, and my apt is pretty neat....but i still have tons of crap.

If you’re a parent and your kiddos are having a tough time keeping their room clean … I suppose I could have simply said if you are a parent, this might be a good addition to the ole library.
They do their homework and their chores and are polite, but they seem to have a bit of trouble keeping their room clean.
Lord knows I still need that lesson even today.
At any rate, if you get a chance, and need a little boost for your kiddos to pick up their room, this is a good place to start.
I loathe the Berenstain bears, i really do, and if you like them, well I loathe you too.Two decades past bedtime reading, the trauma lingers still, and awful nights spent reading insipid rhymes are a cerebral scar that won't heal, like a tune from 1975 by The Captain and Tenille.So, new parents, when one of these grim tomes finds its way into your house, you must shred it, stomp it like you would a louse, poison it, kick it like you would a mouse
Organization does a lot for this bear family. Brother and Sister bear argue about cleaning their room. Mama Bear is always cleaning their room, until Papa Bear comes up with a great idea to keep his cubs room clean.
good life lessons. i wish it was thia easy to keep things clean, lol.
I despise the Berenstain Bears. Hate the drawings and stories are thinly disguised (& idiotic) lessons.
Well sometimes, when we were kid or became adultWe just can't clean our room Some people probably do the same thingNeither do I, sometimes I do thatIf ours room messy Ours parents telling us to clean it upBut some reason their room messy because they need to work, busy, and more After you clean your room, try seen from far distance fitting you can see the rooms are clean and nice views Hope you like it!!Thanks..
This book is a very relatable book for children. More times than not, kids do not like to keep their rooms clean. This book can teach them that it is much more fun to be organized and live in a clean room instead of a dirty one. It has very good illustrations that get the point across as well.
I did not like this book because I do not like messy rooms. I also did not like this book because this book had a messy room in it.
النظام و الاهتمام بترتيب الغرفة مهمّ مفيش كلام :D
From a very young age, I have always wanted things to have homes. Must be why I reread this one a gazillion times. If your child is fascinated by The Container Store, this is the book for them.
The message is clear. It is so much more enjoyable and relaxing to live in a neat, clean and well-organized room. Declutter.
And it's "a neat, clean, well-organized room-- and so much more relaxing!" "[A]nd a lot more fun!"And of course you know that Mama's still going to end up putting stuff away, because just having rules about not arguing doesn't mean the kids aren't going to argue.
Cleaning is important, and maybe the kids need to understand the importance of cleaning in some way other than their mother flipping out and threatening to throw everything away.
And they need to understand that, and maybe they could have a more natural consequence, like not being able to find what they're looking for, or falling over things that have been left in the middle of the floor.
Prose: Modern FantasyA book with great lesson on teamwork, collaboration, and organization.
Often, Mama did more work than the children when it came to cleaning their room.
The cubs screamed and yelled in agony as they watched their messy room become clean as their toys were thrown into the box.
Papa heard the screaming and looked into the messy, noisy room and screamed over the cubs for them to be quiet!
The cubs learn that Papa had been right, it is much more fun to hang out in their room when it is clean and organized.
The life lesson of this story is that no one enjoys a messy, unorganized room.
I loved the majority of the Berenstain Bears books I read as a child, but this one was always my special favorite.
Also a part of the Berenstain Bears series, The Messy Room is a great book for parents at home and for the classroom.
The book teaches a lesson using the little bear cubs and the parent bears.
The cubs do as they please and then Papa and Mama Bear teach them a lesson.
I would recommend this to a first grader or someone who is near that age group because the book was written for kids learning to read.The illustrations are so bright and fun to look at.
In this story Brother and Sister bear learn an important lesson about keeping their room clean.
When Mama bear realizes how messy their room is the two are tasked with cleaning it up before they can play or relax.
As Mama bear throws all of their things in a box for the trash the cubs learn a lesson about treating their possessions with respect and keeping their room clean.
4. My mother used to read this book to me and my brother when we shared a room.
After reading, a conversation circle could be had about respecting our classroom materials and keeping our classroom clean.
This book can be used in the classroom to help with student organization.
Sometimes classrooms, especially in younger grades, can get really messy because things aren't put back where they are supposed to go, and kids get in such a rush they forget to clean up.
So by reading this book and showing that cleaning and organizing can have a positive impact you and your students can start an annual cleaning day for each month.
Then for the res of the month make sure to have students put things in their places as best as they can.
Also a part of the Berenstain Bears series, The Messy Room is a great book for parents at home and for the classroom.
It’s about the two siblings and how they need to clean their room, but instead of working together, they try to do just their part.
I’m sure parents really enjoy reading this book to their kids because it is so difficult to get them to clean their room, especially when it is as messy as the siblings!
When it comes to using this book as a teaching opportunity, I feel like it would be very useful for group projects or assignments where the students need to work together.
Since this and the other books like these all have a life lesson in them I would recommend parents read them to their children before bedtime or whenever, but I am not sure it is appropriate to place these in a classroom.
This one in particular might not be the best one for a class, but there are other stories written by these author's that could do well in a classroom setting and help children learn valuable lessons about things such as sharing and the importance of education.
I love how the characters are bears but they act like a human family.
This book could be pulled out and read to the class if students were having trouble getting along or working together.
This would also be a great book to pull out in the classroom if the students were having trouble keeping the room clean and following their delegated jobs.
The Berenstin Bears and the Messy Room shows that the things you do can also have an affect on others, like the messy room had an affect on Mama and eventually on Papa too.
I grew up with the Berstain Bears, so when I saw this book on the shelf at the library I just had to grab it.
The Berstain Bears were a big part of my childhood, I loved rereading this book.
After the bears saw what needed to be done they stopped arguing and worked together to make sure the little bears would be kept in better shape.
Rather than arguing about who should clean this and I can't clean because of your toys, they were able to get their room into better organization.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
I read the book, "The Berenstain Beard and the Messy Room" by Stan Bernenstain.
I love all of the Berenstain Bears books.
I think these books teach Primary children great life lessons in a simple and kid friendly way.
Primary children can relate to this story because all children have had a messy room that their parents yell at them to clean up.
They use many different shades of color and blend them in a unique way to form amazing pictures.
I love the Bernenstain Bears series and will use these books in my classroom.
However once a room is cleaned and optimized you can feel completely different about the space and realize how much more enjoyable it is to be in a clean and efficient room.
Children typically keep their rooms messy and parents are constantly asking them to clean up their messes.
This book could show children the advantage of cleaning up their own space and hopefully inspire them to clean their room on their own terms.
Each students desk is representative of them and a messy desk generally does more poorly in class than a clean and efficient desk.
My first impressions of "The Berenstain Bears and the Messy Room," include intensity of emotions of animals and relatable.
I enjoyed the book because it is easy to relate to the characters.
Literary elements include humor, and easy repetitive words.
This story is part of a series and helps kids learn how they should live everyday.
The bear family practices praying, going to church, and being kind.
Children are able to learn from the experiences seen throughout the book, while enjoying the story overall.
I would recommend this book to families because it teaches real life lessons.
