https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511208.Lark_Rise_to_Candleford
In our academies we learn history from the top down: “Big" people first followed by middling ones who managed to become important, and then the rest - farmers, laborers, servants, and craftsmen who left little more to posterity than their names in parish records and the artifacts we dig up (when we want to build a new road e.g.), catalog, and make stories about.
So, again, what a gift Flora Thompson offered up in 1939 when she published Lark Rise, her first memoir in what would become a trilogy depicting rural life in Oxfordshire during the 1880s and 90s.
Like so many others, I wanted to read Lark Rise to Candleford because I love the TV series.
The book was not really what I expected, having very little plot and only focusing seriously on a few characters.
(Mainly Laura, of course.
It was such a lovely book.
At first I found it a little dry, but soon became enchanted with the description of life in Lark Rise (where the first two books were set).
And Laura!
Oh, I loved Laura.
I found a kindred spirit in her.
Just don't expect it to be terribly like the show.
The overall spirit is the same, though.
It almost reads more like a blog (a very faithfully, well written blog) that Flora Thompson is keeping of her life in the late 1800's in rural England.
The characters are so incredibly truthful with each other that it draws out the truth in your life.
Yet, I always like it if the truth in my life can end and begin with a small, but good smile of self acceptance.
I find an understanding smile is a good side dish to serve with truth.
I would think it was endearing and sweet if she didn't destroy all her lovely anecdotes with something horrible about what happened years later.
Like Twister, lovely old man, years later he took to kill cats.
Laura's father, worked hard his whole life hoping to better his family and get out of Lark Rise, he died in the same cottage 40 years later.
The interaction of a country town with Laura's young mind is fascinating.Book 3: Candleford Green 5 starsNow THIS is why I read the book.
This gives the writing a glorious sense of yearning but without being too sentimental and Thompson often checks herself with a wry comment on changing times; waxing lyrical about the happiness of the inhabitants of the hamlet she then describes quite frankly the desperate poverty of peoples lives and the infuriating rules of conduct that she saw change in her lifetime.
The descriptions of English countryside are delicious and nostalgic, describing an England that can rarely be found now and the whole thing is made somehow more poignant by the knowledge (alluded to at intervals) of the coming World War which would change everything irredeemably, the small hamlet losing a large percentage of its young men in one fell swoop.
At sixteen, I thought this book was a colossal bore, where was the excitement I was craving for...
At a much later date, when my craze for excitement in books had abated, I picked it up and found it very good.
It really is a meticulous account about rural England at around the beginning of the Twentieth Century .
I loved the book, it gave me a feeling of calm and peace but sadly a world that will never return, the simplicity that is lost forever.
It's a semi-fictional (I think names of people & places are changed, no idea what else was fictionalized) auto-biography that reads like great fiction, but not in a "fiction" way at all, but in a great biography/historical document sort of way.
A few really interesting things about this book: I loved reading about the food, she described in detail the diets (and subsequent health) of the inhabitants of the tiny hamlet of Lark Rise.
Before they would open a book, they had to be told it was one that everybody was reading.
I don't think I've ever wanted to call a book lyrical before, but this one is - if something that is so much like listening to the symphony can be called lyrical.
Perhaps Little House would be closest, because of the willingness to admit to the harsh and non-idyllic but this is more like oral history than reminiscence.If you are irritated by repetition, this is not the book for you - as it began as three books there are quite a few sections that repeat with varied levels of detail.
If you don't like listening to people talk about how-it-was-then, it's not for you either.
Flora, who calls herself Laura throughout the book, has a good eye for detail and is able to share the information of what it was like to live in the area in the 1880's and 1890's in a way that is both informative and educational.The television show is not a direct transition from the text.
As a result, the book is focused a bit less on specific characters and more on a social overview, though readers will recognize a number of the names mentioned throughout the volume as well as some of the specific stories presented in various episodes of the show.The television show definitely takes some dramatic liberty with the content of the books, but that is to be expected.
Flora becomes Laura, and, in the process manages to convey to the reader what it was like back in the day.
I only read the first volume, more than enough to provide the flavor of the work.
The book is very well written, and in such a way that the reader gets to feel that he or she is a resident of the village.
Most readers today have been driven to read these books as a result of the BBC series.
I really don’t know what to expect since there are no real stories in these works.
Like Little House on the Prairie but with more textual awareness of poverty, class, and sexism. Also, it's set in rural Victorian England. Otherwise, just like, complete with grand tales of killing the pig and stories about getting dresses muddy on the miles-long walk to school.
Whilst the show is episodic and has a loose overarching storyline which underpins each season, the book itself is almost entirely lacking in plot.It is very good writing indeed which can hold my attention for 537 pages when those pages are filled with description and anecdotes.I soaked up every word as it delved into the history of everyday life of the 1880's to 1890's told through the autobiographical lens of Laura.
Whilst many historical books present facts and details as found through second-hand evidence, this is history as someone actually experienced it and remembered it with fondness.
The pace is so gentle and the book itself is gentle: Flora Thompson's slow, descriptive style is a way of writing that's vanished in this fast-moving world of ours where we feel cheated if the first sentences of a novel don't immediately make a bid for our attention.
The sixth word in the first sentence of Lark Rise is gentle:'The hamlet stood on a gentle rise in the flat, wheat-growing north-east corner of Oxfordshire.
I don't know when Thompson wrote the book but I do know that it was first published in 1945 so perhaps this hymn to the English countryside was a reaction to the horrors of war.
I’ve lost count of how many times I’ve read this book since I was first introduced to it in 1979....
If you also like long novels you won't be dissapointed.
I've just finished reading this version which contains all three novels of the trilogy and feel refreshed and charmed.
I feel like I've just returned from what people are always in old novels calling "a rest cure".
It's not even so much about the heroine as it is about the people and places around her.
I suppose this sort of work has a limited sort of audience, and I suppose you all know who you are, but you're all out there, like me, needing this sort of English country charm now and then.
But it read more like a memoir, weaving together facts about village life with the names of actual families at the turn of the 19th century.Thompson writes, "All times are times of transition; but the 1880's were so in a special sense, for the world was at the beginning of a new era, the era of machinery and scientific discovery.
Values and conditions of life were changing everywhere." And so she winsomely describes the vanishing country customs she witnessed in her childhood, preserving them forever in her writings.
I also appreciated the details of religious and academic life in the villages that are largely left out of the TV series.
(She refers to herself as "Laura" instead of writing as "I.") As a teenager, she often spent her summers in a nearby town where her better-off cousins lived.
She described life--education, games, holidays, etc.--at that time, but she also tells stories about things she did relating to these subjects.
The book reminded me of the Laura Wilder books, but this was less a narrative about Flora's life and more a telling about how people lived with some related stories (not in any order) relating to the current topic.
I'd recommend this book to anyone who enjoys learning more about how people lived at other places and times.
If you are considering "Lark Rise to Candleford" after watching the series, you won't be disappointed if you are looking for a richer picture of the communities and customs of that time and place.
I, for one, loved the pace and description of this memoir-esque book and found it perfectly delightful to read from beginning to end.
The first section of the book about the hamlet of Lark Rise was particularly beautiful and intriguing with the country customs described.
The book is well worth reading for the insights it provides of a time different and then not so different from our own.
I was pretty eager to start this, but found that eagerness wearing off pretty sharpish.The trouble is with 'The Lark Rise To Candleford' is that not a great deal happens, especially in the first part of the trilogy.
We spend the whole of Lark Rise having the way of life they describe to us in great detail, with only small titbits about Laura thrown in.The second two books were a great improvement as we actually start to follow Laura in what resembles a storyline.
I'll still be proud to tell the story of where my name came from, I just won't recommend that people read the book!
Lark Rise to Candleford is actually three books, "Larkrise", "Over to Candleford", and "Candleford Green".
They were spun of love and kinship and cherished memories"(The BBC TV Adaptation of "Lark Rise to Candleford" converted this final paragraph from "Candleford Green" into a poem that Mrs. Timmins recites)I loved this and all the frequent descriptions of nature, the narrations of the simplicity of country life, and the stories of everyday people was so heartwarming.
The final paragraph (quoted above) proved so moving that my eyes began to water.
The setting is rural Oxfordshire, England, in the 1880s and 90s, written half a century later.
Although it is an autobiographical account of the author's childhood and youth--she being Laura, rather than Flora--it is written in third-person.
However, other than a few remarks comparing later events and conditions with the time period being chronicled, the narrative is not that of a mature adult reminiscing about the past.
Depending on the reader it can be judged as either a fascinatingly comprehensive account of minutiae from this time period in rural England, or a dreary and long-drawn-out collection of sociological and botanical trivia.
I have just re-read Flora Thompson's classic story of the English countryside 'Lark Rise to Candleford'.
It is semi-autobiographical with Flora being Laura in the book and her home village of Juniper named Lark Rise.
Some critics believe the story, written when Flora was in her 60s, is a highly romanticised version of life from the 1880s to when the railways, mechanisation and progress destroyed the idyllic country way of life forever.
My father had a 1950s copy which I loved as a child, but the version I read now was one my daughter Kate gave me in 1991: an illustrated version with photos and paintings that brings the English countryside to life.
This is one of those “saw the TV series before I heard about the book” books.
I mean it has Saffie in it.
Anyways, this book is different, but it’s not bad.
I just wish it had little more than in the way of a plot or was a straight out memoir.
The three books that make up this edition detail the life of the poor people (low class) that Flora Thompson came from.
In this regard, it does make the first volume, “Lark Rise”, the best of the three.
The level of detail and the almost chatty tone in Lar
This is one of those “saw the TV series before I heard about the book” books.
You can be there, and you can understand why it was adapted into a series.
This falls off slightly in the second book, “Over Candleford,” though some of the charm is still there, and there is more reference to subjects that were taboo, such as drunkenness and its corresponding violence.
The third volume, detailing Laura’s rise to a job is perhaps the weakest because while it is the closest to having a plot, it doesn’t quite, and the charm is missing in large sections.
from imdb - An adaptation of Flora Thompson's autobiographical novel "Lark Rise To Candleford", set in 19 century Oxfordshire, in which a young girl moves to the local market town to begin an apprenticeship as a postmistress.This is Thompson writing in Austen's 'Emma' mode, executing her fictionalised autobiography. After a while the self-righteous moralising tone palls, however it is well worth a dip-in.
I loved these books so much! They're beautiful, melancholy, funny, and lyrical without ever either romanticizing or being overly dismal about the rough rural life. The style is simple and straightforward, but not dry, you really feel the authors affection for the people and place. This is a trilogy of three books together, but it reads perfectly as one.
I only developed this awareness recently, so I probably would've loved this had I read it the moment I acquired it, but as I did not do so, I can easily compare this to the many other English works written on this particular period and find it lacking.
Such was the academic bread and butter I imbibed for the majority of my literary trajectory, and while I'm capable of being more critically valuable, I still have my moments of aesthetic weakness.The world has certainly changed since Thompson's day, and while advertisements for this text of hers lead to false assumptions about its inherent nature, the text itself manages to shine in certain valuable sections.
Oh my god this one of the most boring books that I have ever read.
I was so close to giving it one star but I feel that other people could enjoy it (my dad liked it so much he named my sister after the main character).
The problem is, there just isn't an story to it!
It describes in detail how the people live their lives and what they eat and where they go and what school is like and what the postal service is like etc.
but the story just doesn't go anywhere!I would not recommend this book.
Lark Rise: 3 starsThe first part of the book reads very much like a history textbook: impressions of life in an Oxfordshire hamlet in the decade of the 1880's.
Interesting but a little dry.Over to Candleford: 3 starsMore of the same and some repetitions from Lark Rise, although Laura's own story begins to develop at the end.
We are introduced to Dorcas Lane and in the very last chapter, Laura heads out to Candleford Green to begin work at the Post Office.Candleford Green: 3 starsThe third part begins promisingly; we begin to see more of Laura's story developing.
Beloved Memories of a Country Girlhood  LARK RISE Set in the latter part of Queen Victoria’s reign this first part of Thompson’s trilogy captivates readers despite the fact that it proves virtually plot less, with minimal character development.Although narrated in the 3rd person the 250 pages provide gentle nostalgia for on the part of young Laura.
Despite much fondly-recalled generalizations of changing hamlet ways from the ‘80’s to the early 90’s Laura clearly emerges as the protagonist in these nostalgic pages—a young lady destined to witness more of her circumscribed world.
In the end, I wished the story went on longer, so I could follow Laura further into her newly independent life.This book is hard to define – could it have pioneered the ‘fictionalised memoir’ long before it became a well known genre?
Flora Thompson changes her name to Laura in the book, but we don’t know what else is fictionalised.What I craved was character, and I didn’t appreciate that the village (or hamlet as Thompson calls it) was actually the main character.
At times, the narrative becomes almost like a personal journal, with a lovely episode when Laura and her brother walk to Candleford alone for the first time.
