https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6476594-pami-tnik-z-powstania-warszawskiego
Disorienting memoir of the time of the Warsaw Uprising in 1944, with moments taken from before and after.
I say "disorienting" because there's seldom any understanding or reaction of what goes on.
He is meticulous in his detail, but the detail is all about rushing, confusion, never understanding where the battle is coming from or where to go next.
No one person can understand the course of the uprising as it happens.The Uprising itself, sketched out, stretches between August and October 1944.
Białoszewski chronicles the struggle to survive - where will the food come from?
Author Bialoszewski was a civilian during the uprising so this is not a military overview of the event but rather the book concentrates on memories which recall the chaotic period.
People are gathering on the streets and he hears that “they killed two Germans in Ogrodowa Street." Tanks are“cruising around,” the author hears shooting, “heavier weapons” including cannons, and then people begin cheering: “The uprising,” we told each other immediately like everyone else in Warsaw.In spite of the sounds of machine guns and rocket flares, the general mood is definitely excitement.
A valuable contribution to the canon of the Warsaw UprisingMiron Białoszewski’s book is not the standard documentary account you would expect.
He describes the civilian experience of the Uprising as an observer rather than an active participant despite being of military age at the time.The Uprising numbers beggar belief.
The book itself reads more like a stream of thought, rather than a coherent, chronologically accurate history.This makes the account it all the more vivid and compelling as the confusion of events seems to accurately reflect the chaos and confusion of the civilian experience.A valuable contribution to the paucity of books in English detailing the civilian experience of Warsaw Uprising of 1944.

Beznadzieja
:/
Had to read this for school, but it ended it up both suprising and shocking me in ways only war can. Review to come soon
a remarkable memoir in that it makes you tense in a way that others who recorded these events do not. There is constant running and scattering, constant bombings and shootings. I felt my jaw tighten. There are short sentences and poetry and singing. There are descriptions of the sewers. The gray poles and the dust and the pipes of basements. Lists of streets and buildings that have been destroyed. Eventually, the whole city is destroyed, it is all rubble.
Ulubiona licealna lektura.
One can almost feel one is there, in the middle of the constant bombing, running from shelter to shelter, keeping up the chores of daily life in the most extreme and unreal circumstances.
I felt literally tired reading it, all that running from the bombs and the shelling, when short distances of a few blocks in a familiar city became almost insurmountable, when the once familiar streets became unknown territory, the rubble replacing the apartment blocks.
The frantic moment by moment rhythm of the narrative reminded of another book I read recently, about another kind of war, The City Always Wins.
A Memoir of the Warsaw Uprising really does strip down the process of remembering to the words and thoughts that permit and create the act.
Not if you want a clear, historical break down of the events of the uprising.
But if you want to know, just a little, how it felt to be there and live though then Bialoszewski does an admirable job of transporting you there.
As such the account is very personal and authentic; exact these qualities make it sometimes hard to read and somehow impersonal for the reader.Just as it is an act of remembering, Bialoszewski weaves in those things forgotten.
Really 3.5 but being generous. Not really a history or a memoir but it gives you a sense that this uprising was brutal and chaotic.
Boring, boring, boring. Did I mention that it was boring? Well, it was. And confusing as well.You get lost within the streets of Warsaw under siege, after the ghetto uprising? Before it? Well, who knows. The author tries to reproduce some sort of stream of consciousness and his readers don't a clue about where he was, who he as with, who was part of his family...At the end of the day, a sad story but a very appealing one.
Czytałam nocami. Myślałam dniami. Najbardziej utkwiło we mnie to wędrowanie kanałami. Ten ranny na plecach. I to że powtarzały się te Wolskie sprawy. Cały czas. I to że latały "szafy" i "krowy" i kule i samoloty...i ludzie. I to że wtedy, w 1920, nie chcieli, a teraz chcieli, żeby przyszli. Bolszewicy. No i upadek. Bo jednak trzeba żyć. A nie ma Warszawy. Nie ma Warszawiaków. Bardzo polecam to Powstanie z perspektywy młodego Mirona!
Very difficult to read--I'm afraid I couldn't get all the way through it, but I'll keep trying another time. Białoszewski's story is an important one though, and his voice should be heard. The Warsaw Uprising was horrific and this memoir truly reflects that. I hope it reaches a wider American audience in the future.
Przynajmniej 1/3 pamiętnika czyta się koszmarnie, zdania pojedyńcze, chaos, zaprzeczanie sobie samemu, nadają charakter pisania ich podczas zawieruchy Powstańczej, chociaż w większosci powstały w latach 60. Świetne metafory z literatury klasycznej, ukazanie różnicy między Powstaniem na Starym Mieście, a w Środmieściu.
Memoir of the Warsaw uprising of 1944 which resulted in more than 200,000 people killed and the center of Warsaw flattened by the Nazi's. Written 20 years after the uprising, this is clearly not an historical nor chronological work. It is more a stream-of-consciousness memoir. A story of survival but lacking in the horror of the uprising.
An eyewitness account of Warsaw Uprising by non-combatant. Fate of civilians, Methodical killings by Latvian and Ukrainian criminals. Continuous bombing by German Luftwaffe. A living hell for innocent civilians.
A very challenging read, and while I couldn't follow much of it, I appreciated the many tragic and solemn epiphanies with which it is laced: a rare, strange account of life, death, and endurance during almost unendurably dark times.
*lecture*
Miron Białoszewski wrote a relayions from the Warsaw Uprising in form of a diary. Rather good book, but if you read that in school, re-read that.
Kiedy czytałam tą książkę jeździłam do pracy przez Powiśle. Wyobrażałam sobie, gdzie mógł stać ten dom na Rybakach...
Defenitely PERFECT.
