https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30962267-the-ghostwriter
Whether it’s romance, suspense or in this case, contemporary fiction, Alessandra Torre is a master at pulling-punches, knocking the reader off-kilter and delivering jaw-dropping twists.
It’s Helena's one chance to come clean and bring to light an alternative version of the events that took place four years earlier—the day she lost everything.
“If you lie enough times, no one believes your truth.”
For this reader, the magic of the story was in Alessandra Torre’s ability to taunt me with the shocking tidbits of truth she sprinkled throughout Helena’s unburdening.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpress.com/Alessandra Torre has written many novels but this is the first I’ve read. You can be sure my “to be read list” has quite a few more titles on it now that I’ve read this novel. I loved it!We are told right from the start that this isn’t a romance novel.From the blurb:  This book is not a romance. It is contemporary fiction, but very suspenseful in nature. It is about a famous romance author and a dark secret she keeps. I
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpress.com/Alessandra Torre has written many novels but this is the first I’ve read.
Helena Ross is famous for telling stories.
What happened in that big rambling house four years ago?Helena receives some bleak news….But truthfully she had been waiting for something like this.
The story would normally take years to write.
Kate has been with Helena for thirteen years.
Helena just wants the readers to understand how she felt, her emotions and why she made the decisions and mistakes that she made.
This is Alessandra Torre’s fourteenth book and she says it was the hardest to write.
You knew all about the author, Alessandra Torre, before everyone else did.
I had the pleasure of learning about this from the beginning...Couldn't see how AT was going to figure this out...But Never doubted she would...Read an early version...And now am lucky enough to see how it all turned out...●•●•●•●•●•●•●•December 15, 2016Pssst...I have something to tell you...You thought you knew what type of books Alessandra Torre wrote, right...She did Erotic...She did Romance/Erotic...She did Romance/Mystery/Erotic...And then there has been those Rom-Com/Women's Fiction/Erotic...Well, just when you thought you had Torre pegged as what type of Author she is...Be Surprised, Be Very Surprised...
Some information on The Ghostwriter:* This book is not a romance. It is contemporary fiction, but very suspenseful in nature. It's about a famous romance author and a dark secret she keeps. * The is available NOW, on all retailers! >> http://books2read.com/ghostwriter* Goodreads Choice Nominee in Mystery/Suspense * Movie being shopped by Mark Morgan (Twilight, Percy Jackson) and Dawn Wolford
My official thoughts:A gripping story so profound that I’ll still be thinking about it months from now. The Ghostwriter is hands down one of the best books of 2017.My messages to Alessandra at the end.Oh. My. God.I mean ...Did you seriously do this to me? I can't ... I just can'tI'll just be over here like ...Her response:
For one, the pacing manages to keep one engrossed from prologue to epilogue with ĵust enough back story to keep you wondering what was this damning secret.Weirdly, this story is reminiscent of Mud Vein because not only are both protagonists authors but they are, easily, the least likeable and monumentally selfish characters that I've read.
But unlike Mud Vein, I actually loved this book although I absolutely disliked, Helena, our main protagonist.
But you know, I think Torre doesn't actually want us to like Helena.
I think knowing what an awful person she was made the story infinitely more impactful so when we eventually get the big reveal, it feels authentic.
This mystery inside this heartbreaking story!I really need to apologize to Alessandra Torre this is my first book by her, and I truly had underestimated how amazing she is!
This book captivated me from the first page to the very last!The character development of Helena was quite remarkable....
along with how well developed Helena is...
this was another stellar Traveling Sister read!
All of us thoroughly enjoyed it, and we had a wonderful discussion as usual....
once again ladies thank you for adding so much to my reading experience!💕You can find all the Traveling Sisters reviews at Norma and Brenda’s fabulous blog...
I felt every emotion as I read The Ghostwriter and I slipped into this book like it was my life too, it was like being a writer myself.
It was captivating, heartbreaking, and so profound."It's not hard to imagine a happier version of you."I am a massive fan of Alessandra Torre and I thought I knew what I would be getting out of The Ghostwriter, but it was beyond anything I could have ever imagined.
The Ghostwriter doesn't read like previous novels from Alessandra Torre, it's an outstanding example of her versatility and will captivate fans of all genres.
She has also had a horrible event in her life, with both things combined, she decides she needs to make her story known.
So much more than a thriller, it is more like an inside view of the disintegration of a life, a person.
Because Helena is no longer who she was, no longer has any control over what has happened, or is happening in her life.
The story is told by Helena herself, alternating with that of her agent, and the person who becomes the chosen ghostwriter.
The story leads you where the author wants to take you, in her own time, and the big reveal, was just that, big.
| AMZ US | AMZ UK | B&N | KOBO | iBOOKS |A MYSTERY.
NOT A ROMANCE!Stand-alone.LIVE!
| AMZ US | AMZ UK | B&N | KOBO | iBOOKS |Blurb:I have three months to write the last book of my life.
Three months to confess the details of that day, and how it changed everything for me.
I’ve written fifteen romance novels, ten of which have become international bestsellers.
But this one isn't a romance, no Happily Ever After in place.
This novel holds only the truth, which I have run away from for four years.
This final book?It's my confession.
Aghhhhhh! My heart has been trampled into a million little pieces.  You know what you did Alessandra Torre, you know what you did...What a book! What a story! The book starts with writer Helena Ross. She has recently learned that she has terminal cancer and about 3 months to live. Before she passes away she wants to write her last novel and the most important story of her life.Helena knows that because of the illness she won't be able to complete the book unless she hires a ghostwriter to help h
The book starts with writer Helena Ross.
It is similar to Lies She Told and Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore which were books that contained stories within stories and also were both books I loved.Please note that the book takes its time revealing the story so if you're 60% in and wondering still, please keep going, you won't regret it.Overall I enjoyed this book and highly recommend it!Thanks to NetGalley, the author, and the publisher for providing me with a copy of this publication in exchange for an honest review.FINAL NOTE: What a beautiful cover!
THE GHOSTWRITER by ALESSANDRA TORRE is a beautifully written novel that is so emotionally moving about a famous romance novelist Helena Ross that wasn’t always the most likeable person but definitely the most interesting and in the end she totally captured my heart.
ALESSANDRA TORRE delivers an extremely impressive, well-written, well-paced and touching story here with well-developed characters that was interesting, heartbreaking and captivating to read.
The way that this story was written is one of my absolute favourite ways as I love books that are about writers and stories within stories as I find them so fascinating and so interesting to read.
Helena has written successful romance novels over the years...but this LAST novel is a story that is rooted personally with dark secrets oozing out.
Helena instructs her agent Kate to hire a ghostwriter Marka Vantley to help her write her own story.
Alessandra Torre slowly reveals Helena's story alternating from the past and present.
One of my favorite quotes in this book which I think sums up the book perfectly in so many ways "That is how life is, it gives us burdens to carry and doesn't give a damn about the weight.
This was a traveling sister read and I think was my favorite read with the ladies yet!
This novel is dark and slightly depressing but good.
Helena had a life many would envy.
Money from a career she loved—being a romance novelist—a husband, and a little girl.
Only she knows the truth behind their deaths, and she’s ready to tell her story, but she needs help, so she calls in a rival author to ghostwrite.Helena is an odd character.
I found the last third of the book a little stressful as all the secrets of her relationship with her husband were finally revealed.
I admire authors who can create that much tension.Recommend.Fore more reviews, please visit: http://www.theresaalan.net/blog
This is a contemporary suspense read with challenging subject matter but with the kind of writing that beautifully navigates you through the difficulties.There are three main characters in this story but Helena is at the helm.
Her husband Simon is at the fore, as is the ghostwriter Mark."I hate Simon with my entire soul, and I love him with every other inch of my body, and neither really matters."Helena is a character that is rather hard to like.
A war I am losing."As Mark helps Helena to tell her story, something special happens, a chink of light, of friendship.
Pause for a moment......Pull up a chair and sit with me a while.The Ghostwriter beckons like a Shapeshifter in the darkest corner of the room.
Knowing that the writing process may exceed her own limitations, Helena instructs her agent, Kate, to contact a particular fellow author to ghostwrite parts of the book for her.
It wafts from Helena herself who begrudgingly allows them to come in.
They arrive at a business deal and the writing will take place immediately.....no time to waste.Alessandra Torre, herself, is a gifted writer.
Helena covets this process of dying as the final culimnation of her life's darkest secret.
She is not the most likable character - she rarely smiles, is gruff, comes across as cold, likes to get to the point, and doesn't appear to have any friends.Helena makes an announcement to her agent, Kate, that she is going to write her last book.
Kate helps her connect with the Ghostwriter and *BAM* this is where the magic happens.As Helena and the Ghostwriter begin writing the most important book of Helena's career, the reader is given glimpses into Helena's life, her past, why she lives the way she does and why this book is so important to her.This book is told through a past and present story-lines with various character's POV's.
4.5 Heartbreaking Stars!  "Someone has to know the truth."  Helena Park's is a successful author, but by no means perfect. She is outspoken to a fault, bitter, difficult and needs help desperately (from an unlikely adversary) to meet a pressing deadline for a story that must be told....a story filled with painful memories and secrets too awful to recall....her story.With no knowledge of the storyline going in, THE GHOSTWRITER shocked me. It turned out to be so much more than I envisioned at the
4.5 Heartbreaking Stars!
"Someone has to know the truth."
Helena Park's is a successful author, but by no means perfect.
She is outspoken to a fault, bitter, difficult and needs help desperately (from an unlikely adversary) to meet a pressing deadline for a story that must be told....a story filled with painful memories and secrets too awful to recall....her story.With no knowledge of the storyline going in, THE GHOSTWRITER shocked me.
It turned out to be so much more than I envisioned at the start.
Highly recommend.
I'm no ghost reviewer so what you read is what you get from me.
Not sure what I expected as I've read some conflicting reviews.
Helena is a well known romance writer with 3 months left to live and in desperate need to tell her story.
The writing of a life story leading up to a climax and I was pulled along not really knowing what had happened but given glimpses.
Was for me, an alright read and that's the best I can do as I sit here and wrap up my vacation.3.5 stars rounding up⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
A good read is a story you can't put down once you start, and makes you glad for the time you spent consuming it.
I felt that the book captured Helena's emotions well.
I can't reveal special spoilers but this book takes a twist that it melted my heart, I felt everything with Helena.
Books hardly ever make me actually that emotional so this was special.
Just read it!In short:Hero 4/5 | Heroine 5/5 | Plot (Point, Originality) 5/5 | Writing Style 5/5 | Steam 0/5 | Romance 0/5 | Angst-Suspense 4/5 | Darkness 3/5 | Humor 1/5 | Secondary Characters 4/5 | Drama-Conflict 5/5 | Mystery 5/5 | Twists 5/5 | Pacing Fast | Action 3/5
4 stars!This novel started off strong, then lost a bit of steam in the middle where it slowly built up to the heart-wrenching ending that had me sobbing like a baby.
I had no idea what to expect from this story and was surprised it turned out to be such an emotional journey.
I had a love/hate relationship with the main character, Helena Ross, an international bestselling author.
I felt fully drawn into her world, feeling her emotions over her past and contemplating her life decisions.Overall, I enjoyed the writing and storyline, I just wished the pace was a bit quicker.
The characters, though not all likeable, were well-developed and impactful.
I have a story that I don't have time to tell.
I stood in front of the police, my friends and family, and made up a story, my best one yet.
Telling stories is what made me famous.
It'll be my best one yet, with a jaw-dropping twist that will leave them stunned and gasping for breath.They say that sticks and stones will break your bones, but this story?
A perfect morning.
A perfect husband.
A perfect daughter.
A perfect lie.
This review and others are also published on my blog sandysbookaday.wordpress.com
Whatever happened to her in the past blew her away, and it’s a secret she wants to reveal.Don’t worry, there is a Joy Jar, but I’m afraid I did have to haul my Complaint Board out of the shed.Joy Jar-The last quarter of the book, wow.
We learn about her past through the story she’s writing but also through hints she gives to the ghostwriter (and the reader).
(Note that I’m in the minority here; most other reviewers say the pacing is great!) Since the book is well-written, it was easy to read, but at the same time, I thought it was way too drawn out.
Profound, suspenseful and heart wrenching story.Two best seller romance authors combine their efforts to write a book. The book had certain rules to follow, with a definite beginning a middle and an end!The result was a flawlessly written, emotional and cathartic journey of self discovery, love and forgiveness.The why, and what the end result was you'll have to read and find out!!Alessandra never disappoints with her arsenal of unique creative writing. This is one of my favorite top 5 reads if 2017!!
Only that it's the story of her life.And since she doesn't have enough energy to write a book she would normally have a year for, in three months - she hires a ghostwriter.
Please Netflix, come do this!!!Marka was also really great - a good friend to Helena in that last chapter of her life.What can I say without spoiling anything...Don't expect a romance.Don't expect a happy end.Expect a bit of crazy and weird.Expect to feel.Expect to be thoroughly entertained and left with a lot to think about.
4.5 Stars "He doesn't know anything yet. He knows I fell for a boy. He knows I had a baby. All he knows are the first lines of a song. He hasn't heard the melody yet." Alessandra Torre once again delivers the not expected with this novel. Her writing is anything but typical as she excels at writing romance, dark reads, thrillers, angst, and with The Ghostwriter she gifts a heartbreaking story of a New York Times Best Selling author's truths. A very well done read that is impossible to put down.
4.5 Stars
"He doesn't know anything yet.
He knows I fell for a boy.
He knows I had a baby.
All he knows are the first lines of a song.
He hasn't heard the melody yet."
Her writing is anything but typical as she excels at writing romance, dark reads, thrillers, angst, and with The Ghostwriter she gifts a heartbreaking story of a New York Times Best Selling author's truths.
A very well done read that is impossible to put down.
"We all have a Happily Ever After, each story just needs to pick the right time to claim it."
I loved and gave five stars to both Black Lies and Sex Love Repeat by Alessandra, but this, unfortunately, just didn’t work for me.This is also the first ARC I’ve ever DNFed, so I kind of feel horrible.
And this final story will be about the truth of what happened to her husband, which no one else knows but her.
And honestly, I’m fine never knowing what happened to her family, too.
I don’t know, but I hope if you guys pick this one up that you enjoy it more than I did.
A perfect morning. A perfect husband. A perfect daughter. A perfect lie. Now that we are approaching the end of 2017, I can easily say that this was the best book that I have read this year. I have actually read it about two months ago, but it was so overwhelming and heart breaking that I couldn't write a review straight away. Even now that I am trying to mutter a few words about my experience reading this book, I cannot stop my tears.Helena Ross is not an easy character. She is mean, annoying,
Even now that I am trying to mutter a few words about my experience reading this book, I cannot stop my tears.Helena Ross is not an easy character.
I suppose it is something that happens often.Helena hires the least expected person and it is the best thing that has happened to her for the last 4 years.This book is focused around a secret that tortures Helen and around a truth that she cannot accept in order to find peace.
Please when you start this book, don't read spoilers!
But, once Mark agrees to write the book with Helena, the animosity between them wanes as Helena unveils a shocking truth about her life, her husband and child, and the circumstances surrounding their death, for which she has claims complete responsibility- guilt being the only factor driving her to complete her final book- but there is much more to her story than anyone could possibly imagine-This book was nothing like I had anticipated.
The squabbles between two authors is also one that is entirely plausible, but I enjoyed the way Mark and Helena worked together despite their differences.
