https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152226.Conan_the_Usurper
The books I'd take to a desert island.The books I'd save from a house on fire.The books I read over and over.The best of the best.
Another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E. Howards stories. I am a purist when it comes to a writers works. I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another period. Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read. Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
"The night was as black as a witch's hate." REH doesn't offer much in plot, the stories generally following the same format, nor does he bother with character development, the evil being pure evil and the everyone else just trying to survive.
He spends time running from the Picts and finds yet another hidden treasure, and he once again demonstrates his lack of understanding of statecraft and has to beat back an invasion of his new-won kingdom.
It's a well written tale with savage Picts and an evil wizard and demons and Conan is talked about as a famous barbarian that no one has ever actually seen first hand.
After the climactic battle, the stage is set for the next chapter in Conan's life as he proposes to use the treasure of Tranicos to fund a revolution against the King of Aquilonia and take his place on the throne.Wolves Beyond the BorderL.
Events culminate with an assassination attempt that nearly exceeds if not for the demonic monkey wrench thrown into the works by Thoth-Amon who gets his mojo back.The Scarlet CitadelAlthough the previous plot failed, a trap set by two neighboring kingdoms secretly backed by a wizard named Tsotha-lanti proves more successful and five thousand of Conan's finest knights are massacred and Conan is taken away in chains.
SO great kids should read in school.Just awesome.When movie?Pelias is my seond favorite magic user in conan after agohoth.All characters could have entire novel series written about each of them, it's so awesome.Robert e howards power to grab u and not let go on full display.Arguably the best author ever.Only ae van vogt and jack vance and maybe michael moorcock when he is on even compete.
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... Conan is forever.
This book contains four Conan tales originally written by Robert E.
Following are my comments on the stories.Treasure of Tranicos - Rewritten by Howard from what was originally a pirate story set in the Americas, and it shows.
It still sort of has the problem that the Picts and the frontier world described by Howard doesn't seem to fully belong in the Conan world but oh well, it's fantasy, you just have to suspend your disbelief.The Phoenix on the Sword - This is the very first Conan story that Howard wrote and it is a good one.
civilization theme that Howard would continue develop in the Conan stories.
Otra recopilación de relatos, en este caso cuenta historias de un Conan de alrededor de 40 años justo antes y despues del asalto al trono de Aquilonia, tambien con una historia en la que no aparece Conan, en la frontera con los pictos, no hay historia sobre la guerra en sí, pero se llega al momento culmen del personaje acabando con un Conan rey.
Поредната чудесна история за един от любимите ми герои. Типичният Конан, който убива наред в един от богатите фентъзи светове, измисляни от човешки ум.
I enjoyed the adventure and politics of these stories. Especially strong was The Treasure of Tranicos.
Conan the Usurper is not a tale in itself; it is a collection of four other tales plus an introduction:The Treasure of TranicosThe Phoenix on the SwordThe Scarlet CitadelWolves Beyond the BorderI like these stories.
The style is also more narrative, featuring more descriptions of the areas in which Conan is travelling.The Treasure of Tranicos a.k.a. The Black Stanger begins with Conan on the run from numerous Picts.
I assume this story is the reason for the title of the collection as Conan usurps the throne from the current king, Numedides.The Scarlet Citadel is also set during Conan’s stint as king of Aquilonia.
Η παρούσα συλλογή αποτελείται από μια μικρή νουβέλα με τον τίτλο Ο μαύρος άγνωστος και δυο μεγάλα διηγήματα, το Ο Φοίνικας στο σπαθί και το Η Άλικη Ακρόπολη.
Ας τα πάρουμε με την σειρά: Στον Μαύρο Άγνωστο ο Κόναν καλείται να αντιμετωπίσει πειρατές, κουρσάρους, άγριους ιθαγενείς και έναν δαίμονα με τεράστια δύναμη, και όλα αυτά για ένα θησαυρό που είναι χωμένος μες στα βράχια.
Πρόκειται για μια πολύ δυνατή ιστορία που θα ικανοποιήσει τους φαν του Κόναν και γενικά τους φαν της δράσης σε εξωτικά τοπία.
In "Conan the Usurper", the eighth book in the original series, there are four separate short stories, "The Treasure of Tranicos", "Wolves Beyond the Border", "The Phoenix on the Sword", and "The Scarlet Citadel".
The story "Wolves Beyond the Border" was completely about someone else within the Conan universe.
Throughout the entire Aquilonian civil war, the Picts kept invading, and Thoth-Amon once again regains power through his lost (now found) serpent ring.
In "The Scarlet Citadel", Conan fights the wizard Tsotha-lanti.
Looking forward to reading the ninth book in the series, "Conan the Conqueror".
It also doesn't resolve well, and thus works poorly as a standalone, but leads quite well into the subsequent stories.Wolves on the Border was originally a draft Howard never quite finished.
It features a protagonist other than Conan, and the writing really stands out, in no small part due to De Camp's editing and additions.Phoenix on the Sword is a classic, and Howard at his best.The Scarlet Citadel works better in this context than as a standalone, but a great read either way.
This collection of stories is an edited version of previously released stories by Howard. L Sprague DeCamp rewrote many of the stories and edited them way down -- not necessarily a bad thing. They generally lack and depth of character and are only mildly interesting for the most ardent Howard. Conan devotee. They're Conan stories so what do you expect. The Treasure of Tranicos (first released as The Black Stranger) is moderately interesting as Conan only arrives in the final third of the book - which coincidentally is when it falls apart.
These books are a great read- fun, and really exciting.
It's amazing to me that Robert Howard created the Conan character way back during the Great Depression in the mid-30's, and he's still just as great today.
I started reading Conan as a comic book when I was a kid, but I wanted to see if the stories hold up in novel-form (they do, admirably).
My life is hectic right now, and my only real respite is a little light reading...
about a mightily-thewed barbarian kicking the crap out of basically anyone/thing that gets in his way.
Crom!
-Espada y brujería, más y mejor.-Género. Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta. Cuatro trabajos cortos (uno casi novela corta más bien) de Conan, dos de ellos publicados tras la muerte del autor y con diferentes cambios, añadidos y reformas de los manuscritos inacabados de este, y otros dos publicados en los años treinta en vida de Howard, que nos llevaran hasta el camino de Conan hacia el trono y, una vez rey, cómo enfrenta un par de problemitas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
This is one of the Lancer Conans. Some of you will hate them because they are not only NOT the pure Howard stories, but they also include stories made from notes and pastiches by other authors. I enjoyed them, maybe not so much as the pure Howard stories, but they are good. I don't have all of them anymore and they are hard to find...if you can find them they are worth a try. Wish someone would reissue them.
Robert E. Howard watered down with too many unnecessary adjectives and overtly archaic constructions. Not the best of the old Conan paperbacks, though it's adequate for a needed sword and sorcery fix. I like L. Sprague de Camp's work when it doesn't involve reinterpreting and editing Howard. Conan isn't such a primitive inexorable force when you continually point out that he's a primitive inexorable force.
This anthology contains the very first two Conan stories Howard ever published, "The Phoenix on the Sword," which is a reworking of the unsold Kull take, "By this Ax I rule," and "The Crimson Citadel." Both stories introduced Weird Tales readers to Conan as King of Aquilonia. Exhilarating stuff from the father of sword and sorcery.
do not laugh at me. this book is extremely well written, even if it is fairly remedial and elementary, being of the fantasy genre, especially when it has no true historical allegory or metaphoric ties to morality plays or historic events.
No one can write Conan like Robert E. Howard can, but De Camp does a pretty good job with his contributions to this collecion of four tales.First read this when I was about 12 or 13. Returned to is a second time when in my early twenties and a third time in my late thirties.
non è certo un eroe problematico, conan. ma per la barbara semplicità dei moventi e della psicologia supera lo stereotipo.
conan....his mighty thews...how could you go wrong? i don't recall the particulars....all i've read from howard has been first-rate
I love the Conan Series!
read in summer 1967
There are a couple decent stories to be found in the collection (and a couple that are so-so). It's hard to tell how much was actually written by Howard though.
I bought this old paper back as a kid at the Dawn Treader in Ann Arbor off of Liberty Street. Those were the days!
Edited versions of Conan stories, edited by L. Sprague De Camp. Would have been better off left alone.
the Conan books were the first and the best big barbarian type books
