https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184882.The_Space_of_Literature
In order to balance out the seven Harry Potter books I have on my page, I realized that I should probably start giving myself credit for all the smart-person reading I've done.
It's just...who wants to read a review of theory when they can read a review of Harry Potter...besides Erez?So, Blanchot is the intersection of the soul into the academy.
For now, I read him on my own term and am probably better for it.
Anyone who writes or is interested in writing should read this work immediately. It shocks me how little Blanchot is known and discussed (even in academia(and especially outside of france)).A figure of great thought and importance, dwelling on the margins of society (both physical and intellectual)
If you ever wanted to understand why all your writer friends are congenitally depressed -- Blanchot knows why. The writing project will almost always be an inevitable failure and you can never truly die. So French it hurts...Just read it.
Art in a desacralized world.“What will become now of art, now that the gods and even their absence are gone, and now that man’s presence offers no support?” (233)Art as repetition (and repetition aligned with failure)“Beginning again, repetition, the fatal return—everything evoked by experiences where estrangement is allied with the strangely familiar, where the irremedial takes the form of an endless repetition, where the same is posed in the dizziness of redoubling, there is no cognition but only recognition.” (243)Art and the beginning, alpha“But where has art led us?
I am always reading this book...the writing of the "constellations of doubt" - writing as close as possible to the desire for language itself.
Socrates, a man I deeply respect, hated sophists. But then again, he never read Blanchot.
Mais, cela n’est pas une chose négative, parce que c’est dans le néant que le poète peut être libre.
Sans la mort, il n’y a pas de choix : tout est sans fin, contraint à être uniquement sa propre essence.
Enfin, il y a toujours la nécessité d’un final : sans la fin, le texte ne peut pas rejoindre son sens plus propre.
Tandis que la lecture n’est pas finie, le récit peut devenir ce que l’on veut : mais c’est le final qui dissipe chaque ambiguïté, parce qu’il dit comment les choses sont passé.
challenging in more ways than one
Blanchot et moi: une nouvelle histoire d'amour!
4.5
Njegove zbirke esejev, zlasti Ognjeni delež (La part du feu, 1949), Literarni prostor in Prihodnja kniga (Le livre a venir, 1971), so močno zaznamovale francosko literarnoestetsko in filozofsko kritično mišljenje – naj so se slkicevali, mdr., R.
Resnico literarne govorice išče ne v neizrekljivemu, v negotovih blodnjah po labirintu jezika, v slutenjskem dotiku presežne izkušnje smrti.
Izkušnja smrti, ki je nedostopna racionalno-logičnemu diskurzu, je potemtakem tisti odlikovani prostor pesniškega (in s tem vsakršnega leposlovnega) jezika, tisti privilegirani “literarni prostor”, kjer prihajata v svetlobo dneva tema noči in iz zamolka tišine stvariteljska beseda.
To je prostor, kjer se na ozadju smrti vznika življenje.
This is not a book about literature as much as about life's challenges: loneliness, death, artmaking, etc. Blanchot's thoughts are dense, rambling and not so clear but a good exercise for the mind. Some of the writers examined here include Kafka, Mallarmé, Dostoevsky, Rilke and Hölderlin.
http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/1...
Very significant with regard to thoughts on Blasé or distinctions between words and things (See Foucault's _The Order of Things_.
A beautifully written analysis of the phenomenon that is so important to all of us here.
Blanchot meditates on literature. How can one recount or say what it is about?
I read Blanchot's Book; useful notes.
Confuso no começo, esclarecedor no final.
This book, The Space of Literature, did me the great favor of giving me insight into this book: On Wonderland & Waste, by Sandy Florian.
