https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253435.Fighting_the_Flying_Circus
Until the end of the war when everything was in short supply, they were well treated by the Germans.A lot of the flying maneuvers have French names since they were the earliest flyers as well as the theater in which he & his fellows operated most of the time.
It took 1000 men to support a relative handful of flyers complete with a few mechanics per pilot & a lot of stewards & orderlies - all great fellows, but obviously not of the pilot's class.
Rickenbacker managed to transfer into the U.S. Army Air Service (USAS), received his flight training in France, and was assigned in March 1918 to the newly established 94th Aero Squadron - one of 2 U.S. trained fighter units on the Western Front at that time.
Despite the 94th Aero Squadron lacking armament for its fighters when first activated for combat, it began flying over the lines to give its pilots a feel for the challenges and perils of frontline flying.
Rickenbacker flew many of his first combat missions with who was then America's leading fighter ace, Raoul Lufbery, who had had extensive experience flying with the Escadrille Lafayette in France's Aéronautique Militaire during 1916 and 1917.
His account as a member 94th Aero Squadron reads like a well written story rather than a dry history.
The 94th started with members of the somewhat illegal Lafayette Escadrille coming under American control as President Wilson threw his hat into the ring.
America unprepared for war and proud of its neutrality, had no planes to provide for its pilots.
France sold the US its previous generation of planes for American pilots to use.
American squadrons took the these planes and excelled.
From being the new player who both France and England want to use as filler for their depleted armies, America walked away from the war respected and its soldiers and Marines decorated.
Conversely, this is not a comprehensive big picture accounting of the Great War, as the author does not expend much time detailing the major battles or political events surrounding him and his famous 94th Aero Squadron.Rickenbacker’s journal is largely a compilation of stories about his experiences during the numerous combat missions he made.
Were the others gloomier or less confident than their stunning ace; did they care about their victory counts?Overall, this is an interesting and enjoyable recounting of a great World War I fighter pilot, though some mission accounts begin to feel redundant near the end of the read.
I think that part of the problem is Rickenbacker's modesty and desire to be a regular guy, which is admirable, but takes away a lot of the potential fun of the book.
Even if Rickenbacker himself was a somewhat colorless regular guy, it would have been nice to have gotten more colorful portrayals of the other American and allied pilots.
I am sure that the allied pilots had to make themselves feel that way about their enemies to be OK with killing them, and it is the nature of war for there to be little personal contact with the enemy.
A classic WWI memoir.
Rickenbacker manages to be serious and somber but yet preserve a positive overall feel to his story.
The dark hopeless notes of some of the veterans who spent time in the trenches is absent here.
He tells his story, learning to fly combat missions, making mistakes, living thru them, and growing in skill and ability.
He tells some of the overall story of his squadron and a mentions some of the other American squadrons around them.
He doesn't work very heard to place their efforts in the wider context of the war.
He just tells his story.
A first hand account of the Ace of Aces battle through World War 1. Though America's involvment in the war was much shorter than the French and English, the American aviators still made quite a reputation for themselves. Eddie Rickenbacker gives his account of the 26+ victories credited to himself. I particularly enjoyed the details into the other pilots who flew alongside Eddie as well as the respect for the German aviators.
A fast, very interesting read. Rickenbacker was the top American air ace of World War 1 with 26 confirmed kills. This is the story of his time at the front, which spanned less than a year. If you're interested in a real-life account of early air warfare, this book is not to be missed.
I had zero interest in WWI or air warfare when my dad gave me this book. But I had forgotten the power of books to immerse you in another world. My world had grown since reading this, and I have a new appreciation for Snoopy to boot. Check this out.
He was, at the end of WWI, the US "flying ace", but his story is of the brave men who were a part of the aviators during this period.
Published in 1919, I quote the last sentence in this book, "When again will that pyramid of entwined comrades (he is referring to the 'pile on' of the aviators-one on top of the other-in joyous celebration at the end of the war) ---interlacing together in one mass boys from every state in our Union---when again will it be formed and bound together in such mutual devotion?" The Great War---100 years later, there have been wars and rumors of wars and men and women are still bound together in trust, bravery and comradeship.
This gives a real insight to the early flying machines and their addition to warfare.
The early pilots' courage to take to the skies against the unknown odds was truly remarkable.
He doesn't sugar coat the horrors of the warfare but he does add that little bit of humor to get one through the battle.
The Life and Death battles in the skies over the enemy, the daring tales of the seasoned pilots, and the realization that it all could be over in a blink of the eyes are just some of the items that cover the pages of this great book.
I have to admit. I was slightly disappointed in this book. I did not realize that Captain Rickenbacker had a Ghost writer. I did not realize that I had picked up a later version of the book. The book had several notes that mentioned many discrepancies.Several people I know have told me that there are few decent books written about WWI flying and this is no exception. I did give it three stars because I was entertained and not bored. I do think that I have had my fill of reading about Eddie Rickenbacker.
The personal journal or memoir from America's WWI flying Ace Eddie Rickenbacker.He gives the reader a first hand fast paced account of aerial combat, giving you the parameters of his missions, the loss of friends during the war, and the comradely feeling of the pilots in his squadron.From getting his start as an automobile racer, and being good with motors, despite his lack of education he's able to join the ranks of his college grad equals in the world of pilots.Very fast read, and I'd recommend for those interested in WWI or military memoirs.
Quite simply, this is an awesome book.
It was written by a ghost writer from Rickenbacker’s WWI journal.
It almost reads like a collection of short stories.
It is super readable.
I personally haven’t read any other books from this point of view.
My favorite story was about Rickenbacker loading up his plane with newspapers & dropped them over American trenches so the Doughboys would know what was going on.
This version includes a 70 page biography of him & a postlude telling what he did after the war ended.
Footnotes point out differences between the book & his journal.
WWI American Aviation by the famous Eddie Rickenbacker e Rickenbacker was the leading ace of the American flying service in France during WWI. He uses diary entries and his recollections to tell the story of American fighting in the air during WWI. Very interesting. He is also the author of another book, Ten Came Through, describing the time his B17 crashed in the Pacific during WWII. Both books are highly recommended.
Outstanding!From one of America's first living air aces at the end of WW1, is the story of his time at 94 Squadron. Well written in first person and his story takes you along with him. You can almost feel the win in your face as he drops to attack the enemy. Lots of fact verifying his and 94 Squadron's illustrious early history.
Phenomenal history of the WW I pilots of the American Air Service. Things were much different then than they are now -- the whole lot of them would have long been court-martialed!!
The details were very interesting, especially all the problems they had mechanically and how they managed to return to the airfield after major damage and unlike the Germans did not have parachutes.It was surprising to find out the skill needed to shoot down observational balloons which you would think of as sitting ducks when in reality they were surrounded by anti-aircraft fire and it took great skill to take one out.Rickenbacker writes of his efforts to be a better fighter pilot and then later as head of his squadron his leadership skills in leading others by always willing to be an example and to fly more than his other pilots.In a book like this you might think a lot of ego is involved, but he was apparently a very humble man which is often the case of Medal of Honor winners.As a retired Navy Chief who worked in Naval Aviation this book was especially interesting, though I think it would also be the same for most.This book is available on Project Gutenberg and the Librivox version I listened to had a decent enough reader.
But there are some interesting bits in the other twenty percent.I read this on a whim.
I didn't know what to expect, but I soon found out.By rubbish, I mean that this book is a hastily-written war memoir, published immediately after the war, full of rah-rah enthusiasm for the fight and sensational accounts of his daring escapades.
Nonetheless, it reads as if the author wrote the book by simply copying over every significant flight report from his flying log, and padding them with detail.
The book covers the period from February to November of 1918, during which the author was in almost constant action in France, flying fighter planes against the opposing German forces.
"ace of aces" of WW-I it is a vastly different pace from other pilot bios since it comes from the early years of aviation combat; only a good decade from the Wright Brothers, and is written from the age of living chivalry.
Gone are half the 'horrors of war' stories of more modern work, but it doesn't lose the personal connection a pilot bio pours into the reader.
This is not a WW-II or Vietnam bio, but somehow more admirable, leaving you feel the flavor of people who lived those days.
Captain Rickenbacker's account of his exploits as a fighter pilot in WW I; drawn from his journal, but ghost-written by someone else so it's hard to tell (except for some excellent annotations by the editor) where fact turns into imagination.
In the case of the war, though, I was particularly disturbed at his decision to let four pilots under his command fly a needless mission on the eve of the armistice (which he knew was coming the next day), and then to crow about how his pilots downed two German fighters and an observation balloon on that mission.
A good account of one young American’s air war over France in 1918 against the German war aces.
The writer leaves you wanting to know more after every page as the young fearless heroes go eagerly into battle—too eagerly at times.
Eddie Rickenbacker showed himself to be a fearless leader who cared about the pilots under his command.
Through natural ability and daring, he became one of the great WW1 American aces and survived the war—although he had more than his share of wonderful luck.
He went on to become a great pioneer in civil aviation and owner of Eastern Airlines.
This book provides a view of the Great War that is quite different from those focusing on the trenches.
Rickenbacker tells interesting stories about some of the primary missions for the pilots: protecting and hunting Arial recon flights, hunting and protecting observation balloons, and later in the war.
Although the pilot's day to day seemed far removed from the trench soldier experience, it was certainly very dangerous indeed.
The majority of the American Aces that Rickenbacker flew with were shot down or killed in action.My favorite vignette was Rickenbacker's description of movie making using a captured German and then US aircraft.
I've been reading a lot of WWI books lately as part of my research for my next novel.
While particually of interest to guys or people with a high interst in Airplanes, this was a fascinating account of life and death during the first high-tech war the world had ever seen.
It's the American, Ace of Aces personal account of their daily lives, their victories, their losses, their tactics but most of all, their fears.
Too often, we think of WWI as comical, B&W images, so far from reality.
Eddie Rickenbacker uses only his words to bring it all to life in living color!
MUST READ!
Excellent book.The events being written about in first person prose happened almost one hundred years ago. As a ex military pilot and and current airline pilot I was wrapped up in the sheer bravery of men in very fragile machines flying above 15000 feet and engaging in combat. No navigation, no radar, no guided weapons, no avionics. Just vulnerable men and machines in a cruel war. A different age.
This is a memoir of the commander of the “Hat in the Ring” Squadron, the most successful American squadron in the First World War. The author had a fortunate war, and his text reads a little like propaganda. He does occasionally say things critical of himself, and he broods a little on how callous he has become concerning the deaths of his friends, but generally it’s all a steady march toward victory, success and honor. This makes it less interesting that a similar book reviewed below.
I thought this book, based on Rickenbacker's journals written while he was a pilot during World War I, was going to be a verbose look at the first American Ace. He chose a ghost writer who checked all facts, and heavily footnoted the story. It is an excellent, well told story. Rickenbacker admits his mistakes, his great concern for the men he was responsible for, and admiration of the German aviators.
A well written book mainly journalling Cpt Rickenbacker's personal adventures, the adventures of the 94th air squadron, and the general adventures of American aviators in WWI. An excellent book for understanding the general hardships and the terrors faced by early aviators. Well worth the read for anyone interested in history.
Great book by the top American Ace of WW 1This book has the wisdom acquired by an Ace as he matures from raw recruit to squadron commander. It details life in a WW1 fighter squadron and the characteristics of both friendly and enemy aircraft. It is exactly what a more recent aviator wants in a book to find out about flying in combat during the early of aviation.
America’s “Ace of Aces” writes a simple autobiography of his WWI experiences that I first read when 9 years old. I’ve never forgotten it. Rickenbacker went on to create Eastern Airlines, have an automobile named after him, own Indianapolis Speedway (he had been a famous driver before the war) and survive a plane crash in the South Pacific while on a WWII fact finding mission. A real hero.
