https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140337.They_Came_to_Baghdad
You can't be mad at her because she's just so honest about it!
<-- 100% trueAnd you really shouldn't like her so much considering all the idiotic choices she makes which land her in incredibly dangerous situations.
Of course, this frees her up to take off on an ill-advised adventure to Baghdad to find the handsome young man she exchanged a flirtatious conversation with on a park bench.Oh come on, girl!What ensues is the classic tale of a girl in love who follows her heart and gets mixed up in a political assassination attempt in another country, while working as an untrained mole in a cult...and becoming an amateur archeologist on the side.
This one might work as a movie (I'm disinclined to find out, but if you are interested one was made in 1952), but fails to impress as a book.Victoria Jones has been fired from her typist position.
In the Iraqi countryside, Carmichael is trying to sneak back into Baghdad in time for a major world powers meeting with proof of a certain conspiracy.
In my case, Christie's 1950s Baghdad felt a lot like Elizabeth Peters' Egypt in 1880, which most likely reflects time spent reading the Amelia Peabody series.Baghdad, 1950Baghdad, 2014So many coincidences in this plot!
ليست أفضل أعمال اجاثا كريستيتسلسل الأحداث بطئ إلى حد ما، وهناك مبالغة في سرد التفاصيل أحياناً بطريقة تربك القارئ ولا تخدم العمل
International intrigue has never been such fun, nor has it probably ever been infiltrated by a mediocre shorthand typist.
Miss Victoria Jones, freshly booted from her job, sits in a London park figuring out her next move.
– is leaving the next day for a job in Baghdad.
Armed with a can-do attitude and a remarkable gift for invention (some would call her a pathological liar, but things sound so much better when she makes them up), she’s off to the unknown.
even better!
. an international conspiracy.
It was almost like reading a Robert Ludlum novel. Great start, fast paced action spread across different cities, unconnected people , a mastermind brilliantly orchestrating the entire drama and all coming together in the end to give a nice satisfying closure. Written decades ago when espionage , compared to current standards, was novice, the story line holds your attention till the end. Nice gripping drama.
السيدة كريستي العظيمة ملهمتي منذ الطفولة للقرأة مشجعتي التي سحبتني من يدي واشركتني في تفاصيل عالمها 

The more mystery books I read, the more I realize just how incredible Christie was at what she did.This mystery centers around, not so much a murder, but the plot of a political overthrow (Is the overthrow a good thing?
Victoria isn't really "book smart" and she's not entirely "street smart" but she's clever and has a wonderful ability to never give up, and an optimistic heart that makes her a pleasure to follow through the pages.
I read this some time in the 1980s and remember thinking it was one of Christie's more enjoyable books. This is a reminder to myself to read it again sometime and see if I still think that's true.It's too bad I still remember who the villain is (it was a particularly surprising reveal to me) because I've forgotten almost everything else about this book.
***2018 Summer of Spies*** I went into this novel with trepidation, as my friends’ opinions of it are all over the map. I think that reaction to it may be a function of timing & mood—are you in the market for some fluffy, silly spy fun or not?It does get rather silly at several points—Victoria is remarkably self-sufficient for a Cockney lass who has never been out of London city before. Right after she loses her job, she has a brief encounter with the handsome Edward, which sends her lookin
Nor does she suffer from culture shock (or not for very long) and is very good at the spy biz, considering her only job experience is typing badly and telling tall tales!Nevertheless, I couldn’t refrain from speeding to the end, to find out how everything resolved.
I re-read both Death in Kenya and Death in Cyprus last year and to me they seem to have much the same vibe (although Kaye inserts a bit more romance, the atmosphere remains very similar).All the comparisons made this a much more enriching read than just speeding through a fluffy spy novel, so I thank my BookLikes reading companions very, very much.
Full of Middle Eastern ambiance, but with a good dose of 1950s British-ness thanks to our lead characters, it's the perfect blend of humor and adventure, exotic and comfortable, a bit of romance, and of course lots of suspense!
I give it only four stars because I thought a the chapters in the beginning jostle around as we are introduced to the full cast of characters and it lacks a bit of narrative flow; also, I was impatient to get back to our spunky heroine, Victoria Jones, with her penchant for telling marvelous lies, her lack of typing skills, and her sudden love for the handsome Edward who is, alas, off to Baghdad!
I bought this book on a whim.
Agatha is just one of those writers who, regardless of what book you get, she'll never disappoint you.
Then there was Edward, the handsome stranger who made her just pack up and head to Baghdad on a whim (girl, are you crazy?
You make me want to be crazy too!!).
Now, since I don't want to add many spoilers (or any, at that) I shouldn't write any further about the book except the fact the fact that I loved it so much I read it all over again when I finished it the first time.
— تدور أحداث الرواية في مدينة بغداد بعد إن تم أختياراها لعقد قمة سرية بين القوتين العظمتين في العالم
As her life is threatened and a plan to kidnap her is hatched by her rival for Edward’s affections, Victoria finds herself getting more on her plate than she had asked for.They Came To Baghdad takes the reader through a roller coaster ride with its suspense, mystery, murder and conspiracy.
Victoria’s plucky and dauntless nature makes her character hard not to adore.An exotic location, a mysterious message by a man who has been stabbed, an international conspiracy that threatens to start another world-war —They Came To Baghdad has everything you would want in a fast-paced thriller/mystery.Quotes:Victoria at any other moment would have been enchanted—nylon stockings having been usually beyond the reach of her purse.
As her life is threatened and a plan to kidnap her is hatched by her rival for Edward’s affections, Victoria finds herself getting more on her plate than she had asked for.They Came To Baghdad takes the reader through a roller coaster ride with its suspense, mystery, murder and conspiracy.
Victoria’s plucky and dauntless nature makes her character hard not to adore.An exotic location, a mysterious message by a man who has been stabbed, an international conspiracy that threatens to start another world-war —They Came To Baghdad has everything you would want in a fast-paced thriller/mystery.Quotes:Victoria at any other moment would have been enchanted—nylon stockings having been usually beyond the reach of her purse.
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيمتمهيد: شرائي لهذه الرواية كان عارضاً حيث أنني كنت في أحد المكتبات لقضاء بعض حو

A few days later, her contact at the employment agency calls to confess an American woman needs a companion to accompany her on her journey to the self-same city and Victoria can't believe her luck.Unbeknownst to Victoria, who just wants to reunite with Edward, the young man in the park, there is a secret international diplomatic summit planned in Baghdad and there are sinister forces who are trying to sabotage it.
This is a flawed but fascinating Christie set in the then fabled city of Baghdad and as is so often with Christie involving a feisty independent female protagonist in Victoria Jones who throwing all caution to the winds becomes involved in a dangerous adventure involving spies, Communists and the overthrow of world order. Great fun and lots of well realised local colour based on the author’s own experience of the Middle East
It seems that Victoria’s problem is solved.Meanwhile, an interesting assortment of other people are beginning to converge upon Baghdad, including the flamboyant explorer Sir Rupert Crofton-Lee; the eccentric archaeologist Dr Pauncefoot Jones (no relation of Victoria’s, although she’s quite willing to pretend that he is); Anna Scheele, a clever and elusive young woman; and the mysterious Carmichael, whom we first meet in the British Consulate wearing Arab dress and trying to convey an important message to a fellow visitor.
This was lovely again, not read this in decades
I have to say, when I found out Agatha Christie had a book called They Came to Baghdad, I was so excited!
When I started reading, I was still excited, and even thought about getting a copy for my dad for Christmas.
Oh, I should probably say, for those who don't know me, my parents are Iraqi immigrants, and I've been to Baghdad on multiple trips to visit family that was living there in the '90s and early aughts.
Finally, I think the biggest thing for me was that I found the book mildly racist.
Or maybe it's just her mysteries, I don't know.
I never realized that Dame Agatha had written so many "adventure" novels--her reputation rests solidly on her detective fiction, and I think I have typically read the novels featuring one of her Great Detectives, Poirot or Miss Marple (or Tommy and Tuppence, etc.).
But now that I am reading her entire canon, I find that she has quite a lot of novels that might be better characterized as adventure with a mystery twist...and they are really not my cup of tea in the least.
However, I can only say that I kept wishing someone would be properly murdered and that Poirot would appear and take charge, and that simply is not what this novel is about!

Absolutely tip-top and fantastic. I would write more, but you can't really go on about it very much without giving something away! I'll just say that Victoria, (young, smart, cute Cockney typist who finds herself suddenly playing a dangerous part in a web of intruige ), is one of the most endearing characters, and the romance is sweet!
Obzvlášť akčná, až špionážna detektívna lahôdka od kráľovnej A. Christie. Príbeh letí neskutočne rýchlo a vďaka ľúbivej hlavnej postave Victorii knižku zatvoríte až po dočítaní.
c'est la première roman d'agatha que j'ai lu en français et d’après j'adore tt ces romans
قصة جاسوسية من إبداعات أغاثا كريستي ♡
رواية معقدة و متشابكة .. جميلة كعادة روايات اغاثا كريستي .. لكن النهاية لم تليق بالرواية
This was fun! But not my favourite Agatha... 3.5 stars?
