https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6006518-strange-angels
Sometimes the background noise is too loud to hear what people are saying or maybe I'm just really going deaf like my family accuses me of all the time.The thing is, I hate to ask, "What did he just say?" only to have the other person go, "I don't know, just a sec." Then of course the press reverse and we go back and try to catch it but can't so we have to try again...
Remember when Ariel is getting chewed out by her Dad for missing the concert and Flounder comes to her rescue recounting why it wasn't her fault?For those who don't have young children and therefor HAVEN'T seen this movie a THOUSAND times:But it wasn't her fault!
Cover:  Book:  First chapters...After a few pages...At the middle of the book...Second part of the book...1 hour after finishing the book...  Main Characters:  DruChristopheGraves  OVERALL:
Unfortunately, I didn't feel like I was reading about a world-weary teenager.
Dru is borderline too stupid too live and she's one of very few supernatural girls in Saintcrow's mythos.
Dru doesn't give a crap about how she looks, because that's for normal girls.
I don't know who the author was at Dru's age, but I wasn't one of the girls who had a mirror in their lockers and watched every calorie they consumed and still managed to run a brush through my hair without feeling shallow.
NOTE FOR THE AUTHOR: SOMETIMES TEENAGERS ARE ATTRACTED TO PEOPLE THEIR OWN AGE.
Strange Angels really grabbed me because it sounded like Supernatural (the show) - a girl and her father out to hunt evil beings of the night.
5. A suggestion of racism with constant slights towards Graves, the half-asian guy with a big beak-like nose and who can get really white even though he isn't a white boy.
Not to mention that she refers to him as a 'half-breed' and always brings up his asian features when describing him.That's probably enough to put me off reading the rest of the series.
I'm not really much of a romance reader but Strange Angels is much more than that.
A captivating story including everything from ghosts to magic, it follows the life of a hunter of sorts, Dru, who lives a life of travel with her father.
Sometimes the story felt oddly paced and some of the characters seemed like they were just sort of there without much development, but overall this is a powerful paranormal tale and the main character offers readers a resourceful heroine whose talents and wit make her easy to follow along with.
Goodreads SummaryIn Strange Angels, Dru Anderson has what her grandmother called “the touch.” (Comes in handy when you’re traveling from town to town with your dad, hunting ghosts, suckers, wulfen, and the occasional zombie.)Then her dad turns up dead—but still walking—and Dru knows she’s next. Even worse, she’s got two guys hungry for her affections, and they’re not about to let the fiercely independent Dru go it alone. Will Dru discover just how special she really is before coming face-to-fan
And make no mistake, I'm not hating without a reason, I wanted to like this, I really did, it just never worked out that way because: I.Hate.Dru. She's egotistic, boring as heck, generally ungrateful and CONDESCENDING.
She treated him as well as St. Crow implies of him, like a dog.*Sigh* To wrap things up because I really do not want to be meanerany more honest about this, 1.5 stars is all this book is getting from me, nothing more and if possible a lot less.
This is the first book I've read about vampires. It wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. I did enjoy reading it perhaps because it is not solely about the steroetypical sort of vampires or called in this book as "suckers". The concept of half vampire and half human and other classifications of vampires sort of intrigued me.
The mom getting killed, the absentee dad hunting things that go bump in the night and a kid that grows up knowing there is a whole other world out there.But it felt kinda weird because Graves has been living on his own since he was 12 or something, I don't get how he did that without getting caught, and having just enough money to keep himself fed, clothed and in school.
Notable things I liked: Graves.
I suspect there must be a reason why we don't know his first name yet.Notable things I disliked: The French Djamphir guy, although I did laugh when I found out what his last name was.
What I really wanted was Supernatural the show but with a teen girl.
Dru grew up hunting the big bad thing in the dark.
Dru's motives were boring old inherited.
Dru summed up: I'm gonna do what I wanna so buzzzz off.
It could have been girl versus un-nature.
Not special teen girl again.
Dru never formed much in my mind.
I dislike love triangles 'cause they remind me of when I two-timed Usher and R.
Too bad Usher did the same trick with Justin Bieber.) I dislike same as everything else without using the good stuff.
More bad vamps?
To surmise my thoughts on this book, this series has serious potential.
While the book itself was a slow start to hopefully something even better, by the end of the book I was heavily anticipating the next novel, Betrayals.The book is about Dru, whose father is a hunter of sorts - except he hunts otherworldly beings in the Real World.
Then she meets Graves, a half-Asian goth boy with some helpful abilities.
Now Dru just has to survive until she can find help against the deadly forces trying to kill her.Let me just say, Graves all the way!
He's one of the largest contributing factors to my approval of this series.
It’s finally over!God, this book was SO boring.
As if that wasn’t enough, our heroine was a no-nonsense, extremely serious person whose idea of fun was blowing up stuff and both the male sidekicks were annoying the hell out of me.The writing was fairly good but the character description was not.
But still there were some things that Dru found out along the way which  did  turn her world upside down but she was able to take it better than those clingy girls.And the best part about this book – NO ROMANCE!
“Better to be strong than pretty and useless.” This was pretty good! Going into this book, I expected nothing more than a disappointment, so it was a great surprise that Strange Angels turned out as a promising first book of paranormal series. Here's hoping the sequels gets way better.Of course this book had some faults, since it deserved around two stars from me, but overall after finishing this book in two days, I have to say, even with the imperfections, I pretty much enjoyed it while readin
Here's hoping the sequels gets way better.Of course this book had some faults, since it deserved around two stars from me, but overall after finishing this book in two days, I have to say, even with the imperfections, I pretty much enjoyed it while reading it.
Though I can't (yet) see him as a love interest (which I hope will change in book 2), I like him very much as a character.
The writing style was definitely the weakest spot of this book.► The world-building:Which wasn't exactly a bad thing, but for most of this book, the paranormal aspect was pretty confusing, not entirely explained.
Things are really confusing, and there's a lot of gaping plot holes, such as WHO'S THE IDIOT IN CHARGE OF THE KIND OF SCHOOL THAT LETS A KID DITCH FOR A WEEK WITHOUT PARENTAL CONTACT?
I wanted more information as to what Dru is, and what kind of stuff she and her dad has been up to since her grandmother died, but I'll let it slide for now, in hopes that the next few books in the series will provide more insight.
I am looking forward to reading the next book.
urban fantasy.The story was interesting.
Dad and daughter engaged in a battle with all things that go bump in the night.
Not sure I understood why her Dad would put himself in harms way, when he is her only living family member, but I guess that just adds to the story.
Initially Dru annoyed me, I don't know exactly what it was but by the end of the story she'd grown on me.
The is novel is a supernatural overdose, werewolves, vampires, zombies, leprechauns...
okay I made the leprechaun part up, but still wow!
All my favorite creatures of the night in one tightly bound volume.
Lilith Saintcrow has obviously been influenced by many current authors, but you are able to see their effect on her without any blatant stealing on her part (I’m looking at you Cassandra Clare!) And I’ve got to admit that the most refreshing thing about this book is the fact that the super old, super evil and kinda sexy vamp does not have hair down to his waist, thigh high leather boots or puffy shirts with lace cuffs.
Finally, an author who does not feel the need to keep her old vamps outdated, silly and possibly transgendered.Strange Angels is a great start to a series.
Why do people who didn't watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer just assume that people who did were all about the werewolves and other monsters?
That is not why Buffy has such a big fan base...most of us liked the human elements, the real-ness of the show, the characters.So when someone told me I would like this book b/c I liked Buffy, well, humpf.
Ugh...bad characters, stupid plot, and WHYYYY do people feel the need to re-spell words in their own mythology?
Werewulf?
This book was so annyoing....and the lead character drove me up a wall!
She was so cruel, and not very smart.
It’s like she looked down to everyone that didn’t know about the “the real world”.
I just finished reading the demon trappers daughter, and let me tell you her father dies, he hunted demons, and he didn’t want her involved, and yet that main character you could feel she genuinely missed her father and she actually knew what was going on in her “real world”** spoiler ended****Wow I know that sounded like a rant but I needed to get that off my chest.
I didn’t like the main character at all!!!Graves he was okay and nice but that’s about all he had going for him.
From the beginning to the end you are kept in the dark as to the true realities of Dru's world - what's real, what's myth, what's truth, what's lies.
The set up for the series is definitely in place though, and if you really want to have any idea of what is happening/will happen to this kid you have to keep reading, which I shall be doing.And as a few others have pointed out the respelling of words like 'werewulf' was a bit annoying, as was the random capitalizing of things to give significance like 'Before' and 'Real World'.
Strange Angels inhabits the same world as "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and Wicked Lovely (and a host of others).
- we never learn exactly) is special, seeing and hearing things in the Real World that the rest of us cannot see or hear.
The only school class we see includes a very nasty teacher (and Dru's telling the teacher off is one of those "I wish I'd said that to my witch-teacher" moments) and a guy, Graves, a half-Asian Goth boy.
Suffice it to say that I can't wait to see what happens to Dru, Graves, Christophe and how they fare in the Schola.
Holy Twilight regurgitation, Batman. Even with the hot yummy smelling vampy boy and wolfish best friend, it didn't get going until almost mid book. I often find Crow's writing annoyingly moody, but dang it if her action scenes aren't killer = ). I'm going to hang in there and hope now that the foundations laid bk 2 will impress.
Strange Angels is the first book I've read by Lili St. Crow and it definitely won't be the last.
Within the last year I've read quite a few books from this exact same genre in which the characters are unrealistic in storylines that are incredibly preposterous, or worse yet, unoriginal, I was under the impression ANYONE can be published these days, so long as they write a story about a supernatural-something falling in love with a really insipid teenage girl.
Although this is good, I don't see myself checking out the rest of the series because A) there are virtually no other women (and certainly no positive female role models) in this book, B) females, once again, are cut out of being supernaturals unless they are REALLY REALLY special (the next book, Dru is the ONLY FEMALE at the school because nearly all dhamphir are male), and C) the book closes nicely enough, there really isn't much of a sting to read on (NOT a bad thing BTW).I would not hesitate to recommend over similar books like "Shatter Me" (seriously, this book is nearly exactly like it, but WAY better).Full Review:Dru Anderson lives with her dad.
It's mentioned a couple times that Dru sketches and can draw really well, but it felt disjointed.
It didn't help that drawing only comes up a few times and each time it felt forced and not at all like it connected to Dru's overall character.I also wasn't able to relate to the characters.
Of course it would be boring if the author only used simple verbs like "said" and "walk", but it just went too far in Strange Angels.
But using "hinky" made the book seem more dated to me, or more like a hick.On a more positive note, the plot is interesting.
This is the opening premise for Lilith Saintcrow (writing as Lili St. Crow)'s young adult series, Strange Angels.Dru Anderson is not as annoying as most YA heroines these days.
She has a personality, she doesn't fade into the background and, thank the good lord, she doesn't spend all her time worrying about her love-life, despite being stuck in the standard love triangle.But my personal favourite in the book, much to my surprise, was Graves.
I think Lilith Saintcrow woke up one morning and thought, Yeah, that whole werewolf-vampire love triangle is so cliched, let me hedge my bets and make them half-and-half!
I wanted to read the book so bad because the plot sounded similar to my favorite tv show Supernatural, a show the originally started out centered around two hunter brothers that had lost their mother to a demon but later evolved to include angels and demons.
I later read that another reviewer thought this refered to his half-Asian appearance, which made much more sense.Overall, do not waste your time with this book, especially if you are annoyed with today's lack of strong female characters.
St. Crow delivers a tightly-written, fast-paced, novel full of paranormal action that exceeds the expectations set by the blurb on the back.
that inhabit St. Crow's world, at the heart of this book is Dru's struggle with intimacy and the way she is forced to accept others into her life, which she is so not ready to do.
Graves' and Dru's relationship makes this book, while the action keeps it moving along.
But, beyond that, there's also the intriguing and unique spin that St. Crow has put on vampire lore -- one that is even better than Stephanie Meyers'.
Strange Angels was a book that was hard for me to get interested in. The issue with the story is that some things are so over described that alot of times I just wanted to rip my hair out!! Then to the other extreme it felt as if I had missed something and I was flipping back to see why I was outta the loop. I guess for some it could be enjoyable I however am not really interested to read another one. I will be updating this review soon!!
Graves is a bit like a puppy dog and wants attention.
Christophe knows all about Dru’s family and what really happened to her mother and why her father was turned into a zombie.
She has no where to turn and unless she allows Christophe to take charge, she will end up like her parents.Strange Angels is a very dark and morbid young adult novel.
Unfortunately I would want someone much better for Graves than the morbid Dru.Violence and angst are two perfect words to explain Lili St. Crow’s Strange Angels.
Put to good use to make creepy scenes.DISLIKES:* The Quirks of Language - I don't know if I was just being overly sensitive to this, but the way Dru explains things bugged me.
* The Constant Descriptions of Graves and Christophe's Faces/Eyes/Face-Structure - This may seem odd, but it seemed like Dru spent an unbelievable amount of time thinking about the different colors of the guy's eyes, their cheekbones, hair, smiles, etc.
You have better things to be focusing on - you know, like staying alive and asking the RIGHT questions to get the information on how to stay alive.
When her father does not return from one of his hunting expeditions, Dru is left alone in a town somewhere in the Dakotas.Strange Angels is a unique book in the Young Adult Paranormal genre.
Dru refers to her world of monsters as the "Real World." Dru fights a zombie, but in her Real World, the zombie was created by a vampire, the same vampire that killed her father.
Christophe is part of the equally mysterious Order, a group that fights the monsters of the night.The book is packed with action.
There always seems to be some sort of creature chasing after Dru and Graves.
