https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204382.The_Stars
Though the book is designed mainly for users in northern latitudes (from 30 to 50 degrees), star charts for all other latitudes and their constellations are included.
A helpful index and glossary are included at the back of the book and, as an added bonus, the book jacket unfolds into a 22 X 26" poster that's a chart of the night sky with all of the constellations drawn on it.
The Stars is a dazzling introduction to the lost art of gazing at the night sky and familiarizing oneself with the stars.
This book led to me knowing my way around the night sky, the constellations and their histories, and eventually, to getting an astronomy internship and going to Stanford for physics... Yeah: it's good. And really easy to understand, and fun, too.
This book contains the most lucid explanation of the sidereal day I have ever read. If you are looking for a book that explains the big bang theory and modern astronomical theories, this is not your book. If you are want to look up at the sky and recognize stars like old friends, then this is your book. Along the way, you will learn enough about the relative motions of the earth, sun, planets and stars to understand why different parts of the sky are visible at different times of the year, and from various places on earth.
This book is awesome. I think the constellation Orion (along with down comforters, cardinals, and the sauna) is one of the things that makes life in winter not just bearable but lovely. I have lived in Bloomington for ten years, but I still get lost sometimes. Once when I was biking drunk to my new house, I navigated by the stars and made it home just fine.
More so than any other book I've read before that talked about stars and planets, H.A. Rey (of Curious George fame) brings an excitement and love to the subject that are infectious.The book includes an introduction to all the constellations that can be seen from the northern hemisphere and gives helpful tips on how to find them.
Along with the basic tips for finding constellations, you may also find such fun tidbits as how to tell time by looking at the stars.I'll be keeping this book by my side for some time now, because I want to learn how to recognize all the familiar constellations.
The author H.A.Rey continues to go on and say, "the whys come later..." I believe this is a quote represents the idea behind this book.
There were many star-charts included for practical purposes along with in depth description of each constellation and of course all of the whys?
I would recommend this book to anybody who is simply interested in acquired an understanding of stars and constellations.
The constellation charts are easy to follow and clear to use.
Whatever the case, this is a highly interesting and informative book.
This book was pretty interesting at first. Then it was kind of confusing.
Excellent astronomy book for those who casually want to learn their way around the sky. Lovely illustrations, more sensical constellation drawings, and succinct explanations of the basics of how stars, planets, and the like work. Wish I would have had this when I took my astronomy class, as it would have been a much better explainer for some of the topics that the textbook insisted on making incredibly complicated.
Such a perfect book for someone just getting into stargazing. Fantastic illustrations and simple explanations of very complex astronomical and scientific concepts.
I love this book.
It was given to me as a gift in 1963 and I still have my copy.
LOL- I recommend you purchase or read a more up to date one for the charts.
My brother and I taught ourselves many of the constellations as well as basic astronomy with this book.It is very clear and basic and brought the night skies to life for us both.
We would lay in the yard with red cellophane covered flashlights (for unimpeded night vision) and identify various stars and constellations.
Fifty years later we both have a continuing interest in astronomy.
However, when I study constellations again, I'll surely pick up "The Stars: A New Way to See Them" again."The Stars" by H.A. Rey is a great book for studying the constellations and learning the basics of astronomy.
Rey also offers intriguing facts about both the science and the mythology of the stars.Confusingly H.A. Rey has also released another very similar book called "Find the Constellations".
I haven't read "Find the Constellations" yet, but it's mentioned in the "The Stars" that "Find the Constellations" is aimed at younger readers, so getting both of them probably isn't necessary.
This book is fantastic. It is well-written and well-illustrated (no surprise there). I highly recommend as an introduction for someone new to stargazing but even a stargazing veteran like myself will find it enjoyable and enlightening. I need to buy a copy.
This book is now 65 years old (and has been updated). The information is still fun if one wants to watch the stars. Easy to read, with charts to use while gazing up at night, and time tables that will help find the constellations of the season.
It’s not super scientific, not full of theories or heavy explanations, just what you need to know to look into the heavens and really see the stars!
(There is an explanation of what happened to Pluto, the charts have been extended etc.) Rey has redrawn the graphics so the constellations connect the stars in a pattern that looks more like what it represents.
A wonderful resource - however, the cover art makes it look deceptively like an old book - don’t be fooled, it’s been updated, and besides, the stars don’t change.
A classic for beginning astronomers, excellent for the whole family.
This is a classic in introductory astronomy books!The bulk of the book very nicely introduces constellations, suggesting best times to see them.
The last third of the book contains updated theory behind celestial mechanics for layman, and it is very well written as well.It is amazing how many details in the book there are.
So many things are just superb.The only "flaw" is that classical constellation figures (as opposed to H.
Weather that was the case decades ago when the author was writing the book, or is this a way to further push his constellation figures is a mystery to me.
Given everything else is amazing, this "flaw" can be ignored :o)

Excellent introduction to the stars! There is a whole series of plain star maps set alongside constellation maps that make it easy and pleasurable to study and identify the constellations. As Albert Einstein wrote to the author, "Many thanks for your lucid and stimulating book. I hope it will find the interest it deserves."
Another inspirational volume
This book literally changes how you see constellations. Gemini, Leo etc. all pop out at you in a way that should have been self evident. Great for parents to teach kids about astronomy.
The drawings of the constellations and the motion of the earth, moon, and stars are phenomenal. The prose is engaging and fascinating to adults and kids.
This is a great book if you want to start stargazing or if you go on a regular basis. It has great star charts and excellent explanations of why the night sky looks the way it does.
O
Who knew the guy who created Curious George also wrote an accessible, engaging guide to the stars and constellations? Everyone, buy and read this book!
Everything you want to know about the stars, told in a very down to earth way.
It’s not super scientific, not full of theories or heavy explanations, just what you need to know to look into the heavens and really see the stars!
(There is an explanation of what happened to Pluto, the charts have been extended etc.) Rey has redrawn the graphics so the constellations connect the stars in a pattern that looks more like what it represents.
A wonderful resource - however, the cover art makes it look deceptively like an old book - don’t be fooled, it’s been updated, and besides, the stars don’t change.
This was one of my first "grown-up" books on astronomy.
I've been in love with the night sky for as long as I can remember, and my parents encouraged my interest in astronomy by enrolling me in Saturday morning classes at the St. Louis Science Center's planetarium.
With engaging illustrations, great storytelling, and a minimum of "astronomese" (out-of-this-world techno-babble), this book delivers what it promises: a new way to look at the stars and constellations, with easy-to-follow maps and charts and practical advice on how to find all those marvelous "sparkles in the sky." All in all, a great read for children and grown-ups of all ages who are inspired and intrigued by the "subject that is over everyone's head" -- astronomy!
See from all the reviews how universally good and welcome an impression this book makes on all who try out using it.
That you can still go to a stargazing talk and find Capella counted as Auriga's foot, which makes no sensible pattern in the sky at all.
Rey makes Capella Auriga's eye, and by its virtue of being sensible, Rey's Capella is fixed from an early age as how I will see Capella for life.Who are the closed minds who have continued to produce silly star atlases with sloppy blob-shaped constellations since Rey did this work?
If you've ever gone camping and looked up at the stars and said 'What the heck am I looking at?" this book is for you.
Originally written for children, The Stars: ANew Way to See Them, will teach you all of the constellations in a clear and simple manner.
Mr. Rey, co-author of the curious george books, took it upon himself to redraw all of the constellations so they actually look like something recognisable.
Most star charts are just a jumble of boxes and triangles with no recognizable shapes.For instance on a regular star chart Tarus looks nothing like a bull but Mr. Rey's version, using the same stars, definitly looks like one.
This is the book that changed the shapes of the constellations for everyone - including the professional astronomer, from the old classical configurations. Those older constellation outlines were not at all intuitive and most didn't reflect the real sky. H.A. Rey changed all that. His constellation depictions were so good and so sensible that, although they were intended for children, they soon transferred to the professional astronomical community and are still the preferred renderings in use to this day. His second book on the stars, "Find the Constellations" was also a classic in this sense.
I love this book for older amature astronomers.
Rey takes the name of the constelation, and, instead of having what I call an "abstract art" representation of the constellation, he makes the constellation appear as close to the name as possible and does not remove or add a star to the constellation.
And I like how he uses the English name, when possible instead of the Latin names of the constellations.
I put down the date I first read this book.
I am on my 3rd paperback copy of this book!
