https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1408153.The_Case_of_the_Perjured_Parrot
The most interesting part about the story is that the original development has little in common with what happened afterwards thanks to traditional for Perry Mason novels plot twists.
A guy whose millionaire father was recently murdered came into Mason's office asking to help him to keep the inheritance.
As a result Mason did not get his chance to cross-examine the people on the witness stand - something he is an undisputed king of.
It made me feel like the last part of the book was too slow at getting to the point and even the last very much unexpected plot twist had not help much.
(For some reason, there seem to be a number of Perry Mason books in which an older man has remarried to a woman who seemed very loving and terrific before the marriage but who then turns out to be a greedy, unpleasant shrew, usually with greedy, grasping, unpleasant children, immediately after the vows.
Then, when the man attempts to get out of the marriage, bad things always happen.)In this case, the father has arranged to get a divorce.
(A curious reader wonders why, having decided to divorce and disinherit the wife, the guy would leave the new will with her rather than, say, leaving it safely with his son or his lawyer.
Ever since I watched every original Perry mason TV episode except, The Case of the Shoplifter's Shoe, I have wanted to read the books.
Perry Mason in the books is a bit more jocular and less serious than in the show.
A man is dead in a cabin, his son is worried that the wife will try to take control of the estate.
But the son insists that it isn't the correct parrot.
As the story evolves it appears that the deceased man had not one but 2 wives both named Helen.
Interesting how reader ratings vary on this one.
And I lack the perspicacity of another reader or two who found the clues transparent.
There is only a coroner's inquest rather than a court case, and thus Hamilton Burger does not appear.
He contrasts sharply with the open-minded decency of a county sheriff and the county's coroner.Mason is a bit more sentimental this time around, but his relationship with Della remains ambiguous, especially as they hold hands looking at the moonlight at the close of the story.Anyway, I found this fun.
A fight ensues between between the son and the widow of Fremont Sabin after his death. The heart of the question is did he divorce her before his death? Sabin's will has been destroyed leaving Perry Mason in a difficult situation.
A very interesting case! This is one case where it is not exactly a jury or court hearing, but one with minimum technicalities. This is where Mason clears the case at the coroner's inquest itself.A very interesting thing is, that it has most things in double! I guess Gardner wanted to confuse the case as much as possible.All in all, interesting read.
Perry Mason ❤ what’s not to love!
Perry Mason ❤️ what’s not to love!
Prolific Erle Stanley Gardner wrote this in 1939, so Perry Mason, smooth suave cool collected handsome long-legged lawyer would smoke.
The series has stock cast, revolves around suspect, details of crime.
Like real Gardner, fictional Perry demands the trickiest challenges, mostly murder, preferably pretty clients.
Based on physical evidence, the reader can interpret along with smart Perry in favor of the naive bumbling client, or careless antagonistic opponents.(Personal aside: I grew up in the age of formulaic intellectual challenge, such as Nancy Drew, my brother's Hardy Boys, and recuperated from pneumonia beside adult Agatha Christie and Erle Stanley Gardner, also published in Star city newspaper.
"Remember this, that most of the wire-tapping these days is done by the police".
"Why the police?" Mason asked."Oh, I don't know.
- 1939Erle Stanley Gardner knows people and the result is that his characters, though they would be over a hundred years old today (2015) are types we know and may in fact be.
This novel, published in 1939, is based on human emotions.
One of the cool things about a mystery is that the motives for murder: jealousy, greed, revenge, and a very few others besides lunacy are elements of the human condition.
And it is Mason and company who mastermind the defence of the person who initially is thought to have committed the crime, particularly as that person was named by the parrot!However, unsurprisingly, everything turns out be not quite what the police officers thought and Mason is left to reconstruct the crime, after many hours of tracing various people and trekking around the countryside, and comes up with a scenario which is totally unexpected but does reveal the true culprit.And when it is all over Perry and Della drive off into the sunset, or should that be moonlight as Perry says, 'Let's think of moonlight instead.' Indeed!
It is impossible not to have Raymond Burr in mind while reading, but the differences between the original Mason and Burr's Mason are interesting.
Not that Gardner's work is mere potboiler.
But Gardner does it well here (even if it's actually an inquest).You might remember the TV episode from the testifying parrot, although in the end it is a string of other clues, not the parrot, that leads Perry to the guilty party.
And, oh yeah, quite an interesting twist at the end that the TV episode also includes.
Mystery - LegalNeeding a book published in 1939 to complete a challenge, this title appeared -- Perfect!My Mom was a big Perry Mason fan, and we watched every episode with her.
As an adult, I watched the old black & white reruns, the updated versions of Perry Mason with a different, younger Paul Drake.I was surprised the author was writing Perry Mason books (85 in all) so far back (1939).
And to top it off, a parrot who chatters one character's name, saying "Don't shoot!".This 1939 book holds up surprisingly well, despite the few technological advances (cellphones) that are missing.
Perry Mason books are a bit like a box of cookies.
You start off thinking you'll just have one (cookie/chapter).
But then it's goes down so easy that you decide to have just one more.
Pretty soon the whole box/book is done, and you're left lying there confused and delirious from your binge.This was a pretty interesting case, with a parrot that kept naming the murderer.
There was one particularly interesting twist at the end I didn't see coming, but fit the facts and tied up loose ends.
I think I was partially caught off guard because it happened after the case was solved.
If you read one Perry Mason book, you might what to choose this one. I thought it was quite enjoyable with a good resolution. More interestingly, there are some brief mentions of politics and the Great Depression, which add some nice flavor.
During the mid-1950s, amazingly the Perry Mason novels were selling at the rate of twenty thousand copies a day.
There have also been six motion pictures based on Erle Stanley Gardner's famous lawyer.First published in 1939, Gardner's "Case of the Perjured Parrot" is one of the earlier Perry Mason novels, #14 in the series.
"The Case of the Perjured Parrot " is a quick, fun read and an enjoyable trip back to the early days of pulp fiction crime novels.
The Perry Mason series are well crafted mysteries to which many writers owe a lot today.
Better Than TVThis is one book I guarantee is better than the Perry Mason/Raymond Burr episode. The book is crisper, with more plot twists and frankly, just more entertaining than the TV segment. Whether you've seen the TV version of not, please read this book! You won't be disappointed.
This book held my interest from start to finish. It is definitely a “must read” for fans of the Perry Mason television program starring Raymond Burr.I will admit, the book is better than the corresponding television episode, though the episode is still enjoyable. I suppose to do the book complete justice, it really should be a feature length film.Read the book, you will like it.
I enjoyed the twist ending. I will read more of these even though they are what I call formula stories - the format is the same for each book. I enjoyed the TV series and I enjoy the characters. I also enjoy they are rated G to PG and nothing more.
What a pleasure it was to read Perry Mason! I've always love the classics; Sherlock Holmes, Charlie Chan, the Thin Man with Nick and Nora Charles. I've seen all the videos, but reading the stories jacks up the suspense.
Not one of the best, but I always love Perry, Della, and Paul. Lt. Tragg and Ham Burger aren't in this one, which (I think) is #14 in the series.
Fast paced enjoyable mystery with a surprising twist
Very good investigation and engaging story
Hopefully he will be around next year as well, but if not, I will have this and the other books I have read over the last two years, to console me.Little know fact about me, I hate birds.
My aversion to them is so great, that if this wasn't a Perry Mason book, I'm not sure I would have picked it up.
Personally, I prefer the harder edge version, though they are both wonderful.With The Case of the Perjured Parrot, Perry is confronted with a rather baffling case.
Add in the fact that the substitute for the substitute parrot is found headless, and poor Casanova may be in real danger.
This is the fourteenth Perry Mason novel, written in 1939.
By 1939, Gardner was transitioning into his mature period, when most of the best ones were written.
The mood is different: Gardner (and his alter ego Mason) are no longer the angry fighter; he is more mature and reflective, with a warmer style.
(The mountains not too far from LA occur frequently in the Perry Mason novels from this middle period, 1939 - 1950.) He is murdered there.
A parrot is found in the cabin with the murdered man.
As the parrot in the cabin is discovered to be fake, a foul-mouthed imposter planted by the murderer, the real Casanova is found in the house of one Helen Monteith, repeatedly squawking the words, “Put down the gun, Helen!
Helen Monteith claims to have been oblivious to the Sabin’s real identity, knowing him only as George Wallman - a poor, simple and generous man whom she married.
It becomes quite evident that the police try to fit circumstantial evidence to their theories and views on the murder and are left stumped when they get one-upped by Mason with Holcomb fuming in the face of Mason’s cheerful geniality.
Click here to read my full review:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
My father was interested in reading the very first Perry Mason mystery and we think this was it.
I think it reads like a radio script myself.
Published in 1939, there's a quote which seems descriptive of today's economy."You might be interested in his economic philosophy, Mr. Mason.
He believed a dollar represented a token of work preformed, that men were given these tokens to hold until they needed the product of work performed by some other man, that anyone who tried to get a token without giving his best work in return was an economic counterfeiter.
The woman is accused of murdering but Mason believes her when she says she didn't.
The man she knew whose photo was in the paper was known to her by a different name.As the case unfolds Mason realizes that the parrot on the scene next to the body was not the original parrot owned by the millionaire.
The accused has the original parrot.
Mason goes to elaborate lengths to buy another parrot and substitute it for the one the woman has in the belief that he can uncover the real murderer.
When that parrot is murdered Mason's instinct leads him to investigate further to discover the real murderer.
Gardner, Erle Stanley.
THE CASE OF THE PERJURED PARROT.
This one concerns the murder of a wealthy industrialist in his mountain cabin.
What makes the case so interesting is the presence of a parrot, the pet of the murdered man, who keeps saying, “Put the gun down, Helen.
Ah...you’ve shot me!” The parrot keeps turning up in the case, although several people either try to kill him or substitute another one in his place.
With two Helens as potential murderers, Mason has his hands full with proving who the proper murderer was, and, in the end, who was actually murdered.
When a recluse millionaire is found murdered in his fishing cabin, Perry Mason is contacted by the victim’s son to represent his interests.
A blue jay, wire, deserted cabin and a mysterious woman all tie together to lead the reader on a memorable forensic journey.
As the circumstantial evidence gathered, like clay pigeons on a white picketed fence, against the spinster librarian Helen Monteith, Perry Mason prepares to shoot them down, one at a time.
This 1949 published courtroom thriller not only meets but surpasses what the reader would expect from this famous writer of judicial suspense.
