https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29819.The_Landing_of_the_Pilgrims
The Landing of the Pilgrims, James DaughertyIn England in the early 1600s, everyone was forced to join the Church of England.
Their belief in freedom of religion became an American ideal that still lives on today.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سیزدهم ماه ژانویه سال 1995 میلادیعنوان: گردونه تاریخ جلد 43 : نخستین مهاجران؛ نویسنده: جیمز داگرتی؛ مترجم: محمدرحیم عیوضی؛ ویراستار: جهانگیر افکاری؛ تهران، انتشارات علمی فرهنگی؛ 1374، در 176 ص؛ موضوع: نخستین مهاجرت به امریکا - داستان ماساچوست - قرن 20 مداستان نخستین مهاجران و رسیدن آنها به کشور امریکا.
Each is intended to arouse in the reader not only an interest in the course of history, but also an understanding of how the democracy that is our heritage was forged."-From one of the dust jacketsThe Landmark Books for children are a great way to learn history!
Cleanliness: Mentions alcoholic drinks.
Mentions naked Indians.
"Lord" is said.
"Bl**dy" is said.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Read with my son for AO year 3. Very informative and still interesting.
It was an ok book. But it's history. At least it wasn't one of those book you don't want to read.
This is a great history book for early-ish readers. It’s not a beginning chapter book but it is attainable for elementary students. It is a living book so older kids would also enjoy it. Very well written, doesn’t talk down to kids.
Overall, this book was good. I liked Captain Standish, but I liked Squanto a lot better.
Terrific understanding of the how and why the Separatists came to America.
The influence of God in their decisions is very enlightening, to understand why they left Leyden.
Found many captures in this book:"So they committed themselves to the will of God and resolved to proceed.""Hard work was not a virtue, it was a necessity.""It is not with us as with other men whom small things can discourage, or small discontentments cause to wish themselves at home again."I find it absolutely fascinating that the Mayflower Compact, written as a temporary document, lasted for over 70 years.Truly amazing that they wrote the Mayflower Compact
Written at about a third grade level but was recommended for Junior Highers and Freshmen. Also it was a story about a certain young man on the Mayflower but rarely talked about him. It wasn't engaging enough for a fictional novel and not informative enough for a non-fiction. I recommend it for elementary school kids who want a very basic introduction to the landing of the Pilgrims.
Read aloud to my son for a history lesson. We had been discussing colonies created in the new world and this book was a great edition to bring the colonies to life. It brought the separatist (pilgrims) to life along with the hardships and accomplishments.
I read this book and learned a lot about the pilgrims and the Indians that I didn't know.
I learned a lot about what happened when the pilgrims came over and what trials they had to go through, it is a good book.
This is not making my kids love history or think that history is anything but stories of boring dead people. Abandoning this and searching for something that isn't such a snoozefest!
Excellent book on the Puritan pilgrims and the first few years of their Plymouth Plantation. Very high literary value, but sometimes hard for a younger student (11) to understand. Wish it had included a map or other art to bring some of the descriptions to life a little better. Really loved hearing the faithfulness of the pilgrims and their devotion to and trust in God. Makes me want to find more of their writings from that time. So inspiring.
After many months we have finally finished this story of the Pilgrims. My daughter gives this book 3 stars as it lacked excitement and was quite dull to read. She thought the most thrilling part of the book was when they discovered a skull with blonde hair.
Read this book aloud to my 10 and 8 year old boys. It was slow-going as the book is dull. It was a strange mix of first hand accounts, history, and meager attempts at making it interesting.
Read this with kids for History. Good book and easy for the kids to understand. Good details on the 1st Thanksgiving.
Great overview of the pilgrims and their early years on the new world.
informational
very interesting , people never change , it did not work for them to try communal living where every one works and shares food because there were hard workers and those that were lazy workers
In the beginning of the book, the author relates to a dream in which the main character of the allegory, fittingly named ‘Christian’, embarks on his journey to the Celestial City.
The author of the book has paid attention to detail, and the conversations Christian holds with the characters of the story, give the reader a clear insight into the life and background of this determined Pilgrim and the people he talks with.
The Pilgrim’s Progress is an excellent book that encourages the reader to walk on with a steadfast and unwavering spirit, just as Christian did - never stopping until he reaches the Celestial City!
I read a bunch of the Landmark series books as a kid.
I just liked reading biographies and histories, and there wasn't a lot of interesting non-fiction for kids at that time.
These books did not talk down to the reader, which I appreciated.Each Landmark Book was written by a different author, each highly respected and invited to contribute to the series.
There is a wonderful article on the Landmark Books series on the American Historical Association website: https://www.historians.org/publicatio...I'm rating them on the memory of enjoyment alone, not on accuracy or how they would go over today.
Fortunately, kids today have a lot better from which to choose.
If you want to read all about the Pilgrims' journey, this is the book to read.
The author, James Daughterty, tells the complete story in such a way that you learn interesting (true) facts, while reading an intriguing book.
As the story begins to unfold, you learn each step the Puritans took before gaining their freedom.
There were many challenges and hurdles in their huge undertaking, but their faith in God kept them going.Follow their journey from England to Holland and finally to the New World, America.
Be there as they experience a whole new life, interact with the Indians, and as they celebrate Thanksgiving.
Overall, a very enjoyable read--especially in the Thanksgiving season!
They don't write like they did in 1950 anymore.
(sigh) And they certainly don't write like they did in 1604, which is probably a good thing.
This book makes me want to learn more about the first men and women to come to America.
I would much rather read Landmark Books than Rush Limbaugh's attempt to teach the same material!Update.
Just read this with my older kids.
They said it was a bit boring...I don't know how you can be bored with men and women of God risking their lives for a new land...but they managed.
This is our second time through this book. It's a great basic telling of why the Pilgrims left England and what happened when they came to America. The writing is a bit older, but not difficult to understand. There are some very interesting stories here; several being a bit on the violent side (nothing my very sensitive younger son couldn't handle though). There were a few times the kids gasped, "The PILGRIMS did that!" then they'd start laughing. Overall a solid book for learning about this time period.
So much information in such a small book.
Journal entries of William Bradford are included with the original spelling.
Spoiler alert: I never knew how many attacks from the English the Separatists had to deal with.
Attacks in the sense of them stealing from them and arson.
That was part of the reason why Winslow went back to England, to fight the scheming English.
But what ever became of him and what was the outcome of his pamphlet "Good News from New England"?Captain Standish proved to be very beneficial to the new colony and good at reading trouble.
It's definitely worth reading.
-Chapter book about how and why the pilgrims came to America on the mayflower.-Some real life accounts-Hard work and determination can get you far in life. -Never give up on a dream that you have.-People had to suffer to make America the way it is today but without them we would still be part of England.-There is a reason for everything and everything that has been done in history has a huge affect on us today. -Good descriptive vocabulary.-Incorporate Indians into the story.-"Paints a vivid picture of how the Plymouth colony struggled into existence."-5th grade
This book is about the landing of the pilgrims. I found it a little boring and hard to read. I think that I much prefer historical fiction with great stories in history than this dry retelling of what happened long ago. The most interesting quote of the whole book is this, "The colonists had discovered in America that water was an attractive and healthy drink but in England most men drank only beer and looked on water as unhealthy and dangerous."
Pretty good book. I learned quite a bit about the pilgrims and all of the hardships they had to face on their journey. I would definitely recommend it. However, a little advice to teachers who are considering having their students read it: Maybe give them a list of words to look up before they start reading or tell them to keep a dictionary close at hand. There were a lot of complicated words and phrases in the book that I had to look up. Over all, I enjoyed it. :)
This is a great little read to acquaint your children with the settling of the Pilgrims. It features William Bradford, Miles Standish and Squanto. The book starts in England, then Holland and finally America. When we cycle back through again to American History we will read this.Olivia will be reading it shortly for her current American History class.
In a way, this book depresses me because it reminds me of how far we have come, how weak we have become compared to those who gave their lives to create our "new world". But, more than that, it inspired me to live up to their sacrifice. I gained a desire to find my own mission and work to my death to give it life.
