https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39092290-lost-horizon
In 1931, four people, including Glory Conway, escape the political unrest in Baskul, China by boarding a plane, bound for Peshawar.
The plane, however, much to their dismay, has been hijacked and eventually crash lands deep in the far reaches of the Tibetan Himalayas.
Seeking shelter, the group soon finds themselves in the valley of the blue moon, guests at a lamasery, called Shangri-La.Reading this is like stepping slowly into a hot, fragrant bath while strains of your own audio preferences delight; lapping against your tired muscles as you immerse yourself deep within its hypnotic scent.
Landing at an isolated mountainous spot, not really a runway, getting refueled, by people with lots of guns.
An old Chinese man, Chang, with a dozen others, leads them to Shangri-La. But not before mountain climbing dizzy heights, which scare his friends but not Conway, a former mountain climber in the Alps.
Ropes are used, stomachs are lost, but at long last, they enter the Valley of the Blue Moon (as the natives call it).
The High Lama strangely is European, and looks like he's 100- years -old, but he's older!
Basically, he's seen enough to have made him more or less unflappable, and because of this he often is viewed as calm under pressure and courageous; at the end of the day, though, all he really wants is peace and quiet.When the English are evacuating India, Conway and three other passengers have their airplane hijacked, and they are whisked away to Shangri-La. I won't say anymore except that he and his companions find a great deal of mystery there, but Conway also senses immediately that he's found his place of repose.I say I read this book at the exact right moment in my life because I can identify with Conway's dispassion at times.
This is a fun read.
They did a pretty good job with the film.
Given that Hilton was a major screenwriter that makes sense.
It is very Victorian in its feel, a sort of Kipling-esque yarn, in which depression era westerners find themselves in a version of paradise.
The place is rather communistic, with elements of free love that no doubt raised some eyebrows when it was published.
On the other hand, the place is run by a Belgian cleric.
On the other hand, their motto is all things in moderation, even ethics.
It was a fun, quick read and is recommended for anyone who enjoys 19th century tales of adventure.
This is the 1937 theme song for the Frank Capra’s movie adaptation of James Hilton’s 1933 wondrous classic Lost Horizon and I only know the first two lines.
This book by James Hilton (1900-1954) was first published in 1933 but it was only noticed by readers after he released his other novel, Goodbye, Mr. Chips.Lost Horizon was filmed in 1939 the same year when it was released as mass paperback by Pocket Books.
Now, that I am done reading the book and I think I have to find out how to sing the song in full.
Και με οδήγησε σε αυτό το μυθιστόρημα, στην παραμυθένια Σάνγκρι – Λα και σε αυτόν τον κόσμο που κάπως αχνά μου θύμισε ένα διήγημα του Μίχαελ Έντε με τίτλο «Το τέρμα ενός μεγάλου ταξιδιού» από τη συλλογή «Η φυλακή της ελευθερίας» (αν και το διήγημα είναι σαφώς κατώτερο).
Αλλά πώς άραγε θα αντιδρούσαμε όλοι μας, αν μια μέρα συνέβαινε κάτι εντελώς απίθανο; Σα να ξεκινάς για κάπου και να καταλήγεις, χωρίς καλά -καλά να καταλάβεις πώς, σε ένα μέρος που πότε δεν φαντάστηκες πως υπάρχει, αν και κατά βάθος, μέσα σου, χωρίς ίσως να το ξέρεις, πάντα το ποθούσες.
Διαβάζοντας στα 4ο μου, σήμερα την ίδια ιστορία, δεν μπορώ πλέον να δεχτώ τον τρόπο που βλέπει το πράγματα.
This was a book club selection that I was actually excited about since its setting is the mystical Shangri-La. I thought it would be an Indiana Jones-esque action and adventure in an exotic Asian setting.
What I got instead was Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Boring Tibetans.
There's no action; all they do is prattle on about how perfect existence in Shangri-La is (so perfect, in fact, it's painfully boring to read about).
I am so glad that I checked this out from the library.
Now I can't wait to go check it back in.Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder
(Nor does it fit into the "lost race" tradition popular on both sides of the Atlantic before and between the World Wars.) But it does have a central speculative element to its plot: the idea of long extension of human life (though not actual immortality, nor anything like it) by purely natural means.
This element is squarely in the "soft" SF tradition (more characteristic of the British than the American genre), a literary conceit employed to set up and serve the human social and philosophical questions the author wants to explore.
Hugh Conway, a veteran of the Great War and a British diplomat, told a novelist friend an incredible story.
After they crash landed in the frigid, windy mountains, their dying pilot told them to go to the lamasery of Shangri-La. The four passengers were guided there by porters and a postulant from the lamasery.
After winding through dangerous mountain passes for hours, they arrived at the lamasery overlooking a protected fertile valley.
It left me hoping that Shangri-La is real, hidden and protected by the mountains of Tibet.
Four passengers hurriedly boarded a small single engine plane to leave Afghanistan.
The plane though small, was powerful and was specially built to fly at 25000 ft.
Flying into a storm, the plane crashed.
How about all the time you need to do anything you want with no deadlines or pressure.
Shangri-la is where the passengers ended up, though not on a sunny island, but in the Himalayas.In fact the author of this book, James Hilton, created the fictional phrase Shangri-la for this story.
An Englishman himself, he wrote mostly stories about the times between the 2 World Wars.
Lost Horizons is a very silly, dumb book, but charming and fun for all that.It's racist and sexist, in that casual and unmalicious way that you see in, like, Mad Men. The "hard, mocking, sex-thirsty voices of women" are mentioned at one point, and the inhabitants of Shangri-La are described as "cleaner and handsomer than the average" Chinese.
It's certainly one of those books that threatens to make your eyes roll right out of your head.
I mean, for one thing Hilton is inventing Shangri-La here, and that's pretty cool.
The plane that launched a thousand derivatives...Before there was the ABC juggernaut that is LOST, there was James Hilton's afternoon read Lost Horizon.
You'll even find yourself asking "What Would Edward Said Do" in certain passages, but that's part of the fun in reading a book almost a hundred years old...You may even ask yourself (although quietly, if you're in public) to examine how much free will we truly have.
They may also be curious to know that Lost Horizon spawned both a book sequel, a movie, and a musical.
It wasn't until I finished the story and read the Afterword that I realized that this book was written by the same guy who wrote Goodbye, Mr. Chips, another story I had pretty much put out of my mind.
It's supposed to be this perfect society essentially created out of moderation, which is bogus, right, because moderation is boring and, c'mon, haven't we all agreed that nearly immortal longevity is a real drag?But Shangri-La has other good stuff, apparently, like toilets and libraries, so it's not all bad.
I don't want to live forever.It's a cute story, but just like Goodbye, Mr. Chips was a cute story.
(As I was reading, I could practically hear Ronald Coleman talking at times.) I was surprised to find that movie director Frank Capra would actually expand on the novel's impressive economy by adding characters and complications.
Something of a mistake, I think, but the movie is as beloved as the novel, so Capra was able to infuse the story with his own very capable and visual magic.
Still, after reading "Lost Horizon" I found myself wanting to see a modern director, a gifted one, take us once again to the Valley of the Blue Moon, but this time sticking to Hilton's original map to Shangri-La. The times call for just such a return journey.
Again I am reading a novel that I saw the movie long ago that Frank Capra's 1937 Lost Horizon version with Ronald Coleman and Jane Wyatt and also my favorite Edward Everett Horton.
Both are wonderful but like always the book has more into Conway's mind than in the movie.
It is also interesting that in Hilton's Random Harvest (Ronald Coleman was in that one too) and Lost Horizon deals with a main character that has had amnesia and head injury due to world war 1.
Looking forward to reading him again to see if this happens again in another novel.
Hilton's beautiful tale is hard to classify. It reminds me, in a way, of "The Twenty-One Balloons," by William Pène du Bois, and in another, curious way, of C.S. Lewis's "Till We Have Faces." I do know that I want to go back to Shangri-La.
A beautiful story set deep with in the Himalayans, sits a mysterious place known only to a few as Shangri-La.Four people are kidnapped in a plane and land in the unknown regions of Tibet.
As the pianist is leaving the room, Conway goes to the piano and begins to play a unknown piece of music that is however obviously Chopan's.
His friend discovers he has booked a boat heading east hoping to find his way back.The story that Conway tells is a a wonderous tale of a utopian society that not only brings long life, but peace and tranquility as one has never known.
Hikâye çeşitli amaçlarla Çin'de bulunan dört kişinin iç savaş nedeniyle ülkeyi terk etmek üzere bir uçağa binmeleriyle başlıyor.
Bu dört kişinin bulunduğu uçak kaçırılıyor ve kimselerin bilmediği bir yere inmek durumunda kalıyor.
Aksi gibi kendilerini kaçıran kişi de ölünce ne yapacaklarını bilemiyorlar; fakat tam bu sıralarda ilginç bir kafileyle karşılaşıyorlar.
Bu kafile onlara dönmeleri için uygun ortam sağlanıncaya kadar manastırlarında, Şangri-La'da, misafir etmeyi öneriyor.
Onlar da mecburen bu öneriyi kabul ediyorlar; fakat en sonunda manastıra ulaştıklarında hiç beklemedikleri rahat, konforlu, huzurlu bir ortamla karşı karşıya kalıyorlar."...geleneklere esir olmamak bizim geleneğimizdir.
177).Şangri-La, aslında bir "ütopya" diyebiliriz.
Tam bir denge söz konusu.
Ben gerçekten ummadığım bir keyifle okudum.
This was a reread for book club, but I enjoyed it as much as I did (1990) 26 years ago!It's not too long. It's kind of mysterious. It was first published in 1933 which I think is an interesting era. It's about 4 people who get kidnapped and accidentally end up in Shangri-La. Or do they? I enjoyed it :)Also, the same author wrote Goodbye, Mr. Chips, it's a good one too!
It is one of the perennial classics of Golden Age Hollywood, and the circumstances of its making -- and ironically, its partially "lost" state through the years due to several rounds of injudicious cutting -- have become as legendary as the film's stature.I've now read Hilton's original novel, and re-watched Capra's movie after having not see it for many years, and I have to say, unequivocally, that the Hollywood director -- working from a brilliant script adaptation by the ingenious Robert Riskin -- wins the contest hands-down; the movie is a masterpiece, while the much more austere book is merely a good tale boosted by some choice philosophical musings, almost all of which make it into the film but in expertly compressed form.In the book, Hilton leaves much to the imagination, which is fine, but Riskin and Capra took up the challenge of filling in gaps in the tale, adding and subtracting characters, fleshing out motivations and personalities and heightening the sense of scope, adventure and romance.
There are reasons books become classics. They speak with a voice that is ageless, have a plot that reflects the human experience and/or connects with a deep part of the psyche. Reading a classic work of literature for the first time is akin to discovering an unknown family member - someone who: expresses a familiarity of experience that is rooted in genetics, needs no explanation or translation to be understood and is a friend upon meeting. When this classic was offered by one of my dealers, th
Reading a classic work of literature for the first time is akin to discovering an unknown family member - someone who: expresses a familiarity of experience that is rooted in genetics, needs no explanation or translation to be understood and is a friend upon meeting.
My only regrets in doing so are: 1) I wanted so long to read it and 2) I now have a renewed craving for classic works of literature.
The story of what happened to these four is told via the account given by Conway (detailed in the prologue) of being taken to a land that is known as Shangri-La. What is found in that valley hidden high in the Himalayan Mountain range must be experienced to be grasped.
At the time of its writing, Hitler was just rising to power in Germany, and the Japanese had already bombed Shanghai in the "January 28 Incident" of 1932 that presaged not only the Marco Polo Bridge and Rape of Nanking in 1937 but ultimately the entire war in the Pacific as well.Well, we more-or-less survived that war; but reading the book today I find the Lama's warning perhaps even more relevant to today's world - standing once again on the brink of nuclear conflict; facing (but largely failing to address) a looming environmental catastrophe; terrorism, disease, Trump...maybe it really is time to head up into the hills and look for a cone-shaped mountain...NOTE ON THE AUTHOR: James Hilton wrote over 20 novels, but is really only remembered for Lost Horizon and Good-bye Mr. Chips, which he wrote back to back.
مقريتش الرواية الاصليةبس اعتقد ان د احمد ملخص منها كتير اوي زيادة عن الحد بس رغم كده الفصول الاخيرة في الكتاب ممتعةخصوصا مقابلة البطل لللاماالنهاية شبه مبتورةاعتقد ان تفاصيل النهايات دوما بتحيي الروايةحتى لو كان الحجم هيزيد شوية بس انا بستمتع في طريقته في الانتقاء و الترجمة و الاختزال اكتر بكتير من الروايات المترجمة نفسهاادامه اللهمحمد عطيةفبراير 2013
They call their oasis Shangri-La.The middle-aged British man is named Conway; he has the best grasp of the goals of Shangri-La of any of the people in his group.
He has the good fortune to meet the High Lama of the monastery there and to be told the secrets of Shangri-La.Conway's sentiments narrate the story, and his calm personality resonates with the reader and makes the sometimes outlandish beliefs of Shangri-La become vivid and desirable.This is a magical book with the same feeling of hope and inspiration that is present in Frank Capra's films.
I wasn't sure at first if either of us anticipated our tastes in literature very well, but I at least read Lost Horizon with interest.
In the end, however, I simply wanted some more action.
I hoped for it with each turn of the page and even thought I saw how the story could credibly transform into an intense finish, but instead it faded into a rather open-ended, thoughtful conclusion.
I wasn't disappointed by the end, by any means.
Perhaps, my brother-in-law is experiencing the reverse with his read, wanting less action and more philosophical observations, and will maybe be ultimately foiled in his wish, though not--I hope--disappointed.
A British group leaves India in the 1930s by plane, the plane goes down, and thereafter they find themselves in the fabled Shangri-La. In this valley of warmth and beauty in the midst of the Himalayan mountains, they find a people with astounding longevity leading lives of simplicity and wisdom and peace.
They eventually find their way out of Shangri-La and back home, but Conway (the main character), consumed by regret for the peace that he left behind, returns in the end.
For me, the power of this novel was in the sense of potential peace that is evoked, and that is available to all of us.
What a beautiful and wondrous book!
Our hero Conway's adventure was an awe-inspiring tale of a monastery hidden deep in a Tibetan mountain range, where the lamas lead extraordinary existences.
Their isolation and longevity allows them a unique position in the world and very few outsiders are privy to their secrets.
Hilton's use of the high lama's telepathy is certainly prophetic, considering the book was written prior to World War II.
Lost Horizon was a great adventure story as well as a picture of an ideal society.
Hilton's dream on utopia was brilliantly written and enchanting.
This is a great book. It is a short read but provokes deep thought and questions about what we want of life and existence. It's very much rooted in the time it was written and, without any direct references, reflects the emotional, societal and physical damage that WWI created and that tipped reality on its axis. It is a sort of adventure story but, be warned, it's not pacey...it takes a while for both the characters and the reader to get to a point of understanding but its worth the wait. A very well written and charming tale.
If you don't believe in Shangri-La, well you might after reading James Hilton's Lost Horizon. Four people on a plane, hijacked and taken to a remote and secret location in the Himalayan mountains where they find a visual and spiritual paradise. A short fantasy, action, adventure. I use the word action loosely.
After loving the BBC dramatization based on this book, I decided to read it afterwards. Really liked it and I didn't know that Frank Capra had made a movie version of this book, which was probably more reliable to story itself than the last Hollywood version.
