https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121308.Code_of_the_West
Early feminism meets compromise and the boxing techniques take the everyday scrabbles to a new level.
Fascinating studyIts author dead before WWII began, this is a work that tries to frame feminism within the moral constructs of the day, with mixed results. The book is written simp!y, with jargon and references used commonly at the time, but it's a key piece for those readers keen to see where modern patriarchy had roots in popular culture.
Nice book and a good storyBeautiful descriptions of the west along with a relaxing pace.. It also has a cast of strong characters and a good plot.
I'll pick this, because he can inject someone of different gender, some 50 years apart and a country away from me with similar emotions and troubles I remember.
If he was not a "stable" of men and women under one name, like some other popular writers even now, or helped strongly by a woman, he was an unusual and awesome author.Surprising.
Author born in 1800s, male writing Georgiana as 17 in post WW1 States, citified in short skirts and painted face, moving out West.
He captures the energy and wanting to bust out of my skin energy I remember from that age.Typos:p 291 "Green valley" is "Green Valley"
Classic Zane Grey--Romantic western. I've re read this a couple of times. I'm sure modern-day feminism eliminates this book as a "good read", given the heroine is taken over the hero's knee and spanked (not in a fifty-shades manner), but I'm old-fashioned.
I like westerns, but this read like the diary of a 14 year old girl from the city who moved to the country, who cannot write. Even though it was written by a man in the 30's. Not enough wild west in the western. :(
I read Zane Grey as a window into earlier times and places. This story, not his most memorable, is about a ranch, the usual cowboy protagonist, and an Eastern flirt who learns to be more settled by the end. It also portrays the early sport of boxing.
UnusualThis is not a Zane Grey western I am accustomed to reading. Set in the west after WW I, this is more a short romance than an adventure. The ending was as expected, and while moving, was what hoped for.
Southwest
Good Zane Grey western.
The "code" refers to a Westerner's value system and way of living. I love Grey's simple plots, light romances, western settings, and predictable endings. Sometimes they are just what I need.
Yet another well written lovely ZG book. Stale in the middle but completely satisfying and a bit contemporary for the 30's!
Pure cowboy stories
Written 83 years ago, one of the best books I've read in a long time. Zane Grey had a way of describing landscapes and flowers and the sky like no other writer I've ever read.
ReviewThis was a good western. Not the gun fighting kind but the western family. I don't care for western as such, but this was a good read. Probably worth more than my four stars.
Breathtakingly misogynistic.
In this romantic Western from 1934, Zane Grey gives us the story of Georgina Stockwell who comes to Tonto Basin to join her sister. Unprepared, she breaks the code of the West with her behavior.
