https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84746.Hornblower_and_the_Hotspur
Some real quandaries of conscience beset Horatio Hornblower in this the third book in CS Forester's Hornblower series.
It's really one of the sadder, more perplexing moments in the series.
Luck does not completely abandon him though, as we see when he is made Commander upon a sloop and is sent off to the Brest blockade just as the inevitable war resumes.Hornblower's career and neck are at stake on a number of occasions, which makes this an exciting or at least intriguing read.
Forester continues adding nice historical flourishes to keep the details wonderfully authentic.
Hornblower and the Hotspur keeps the series' sails full and its heading on the right course.
I started listening to this & stopped thinking I'd missed a book, but this is definitely the third chronologically.
It starts out with Hornblower getting married, rather surprising considering where we left off in the last book.
This is cleared up if you read the short story "Hornblower and the Widow McCool (aka, Temptation or Big Decision).I really enjoyed this once I recovered from the whiplash of the first part.
Now I REALLY want to go on to the next, but I have another Parker novel, too.
I should stick to alternating them, but I think I have to go on to Hornblower During the Crisis.
I recommend these books highly. As the story continues Hornblower marries quickly (more from pity for his bride than love though he goes to lengths not to let her see this) and goes to sea in command of the Hotspur.I won't synopsize more than that. I'll only say the adventures here are worth the read. This is another step in the life and career of one of the more iconic characters of literature. The book carries us through to see Hornblower promoted to Post Captain.Enjoy.
This book picks up right on the heels of the last.
Hornblower finds himself attached to a young woman, Maria.
In fact, the book starts at the alter with Hornblower getting married.
THe cold, manipulative Lieutenant of the last book was discarded in favor of a return to the do-gooder young Midshipman.
Hornblower was unwilling to disappoint this young woman and finds himself marrying her.
Like that earnest young Midshipman, Hornblower does his duty.
It was the right thing to do.I wonder how Hornblower will continue to develop?
The book is very good, and the fights at sea are top notch.
Jos jedna zabavna knjiga o zivotu i borbi na moru u Napoleonovo doba. Moram priznati ipak da ovo nije za svakoga, ko ne voli detaljniji uvid o zivotu na brodu i sta je sve potrebno da sve funkcionise kako treba, za njih bi ovo moglo biti mozda i dosadno. Mene je super.Idemo dalje.
"She was close-hauled, sir, under double-reefed tops'ls, on the starboard tack, sir." ...
His fore tops'ls coming round.
I read almost the entire Patrick O'Brien series before starting Hornblower, which was written first.
I like both series, not as a steady diet, but maybe one a year.
Hornblower and the Hotspur (Hotspur is the name of the ship) was very well written, with a mixture of many action scenes, a few personal scenes, and an underlying frustration with the English navy bureaucracy.
Hornblower's struggle with his personal ethics and sense of duty is engaging.
It was then, and remains upon rereading, one of my favourite Hornblower novels, I think primarily because of how it emphasizes Hornblower’s continuing inner conflict between what he believes is expected of a RN officer and what his sense of human decency and of justice demands.
That reminded me that Hornblower and the Hotspur deals primarily with Hornblower commanding a sloop close inshore at the blockade, so of course I had to read it again.
When I reread it, I was amazed by how effectively and accurately C.S.Forester had woven the story of the blockade into Hornblower’s story.Altogether a great fighting sail story; the finest part for me was a description of Hornblower sailing the sloop through a hurricane into shelter in Torbay.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.
The Hornblower books get better with every installment. Hornblower is a wonderful character, flawed, nuanced, introspective, and dynamic. Forester's obvious knowledge of his subject brings a compelling and even instructive verisimilitude to the historical setting. Hornblower's little domestic troubles add a nice rounding touch the otherwise stalwart naval scenes.
This book gives us Hornblower's first outing as a full Master & Commander of his own vessel, as a commander assigned to a sloop of war in the channel blockade.The novel takes place after the peace between England and France has broken down and Napoleon is preparing for an invasion of England.
This becomes irritating at times, but it does help to flesh out a very real character of whom we wish to read more, despite his all too human faults.Much is also made in this novel of the system of "Prize" money given to captains during the Napoleonic wars and the disdain Hornblower has for it.
I gushed over this series in my last review and I will add the first chronological books are my favourites.
The little stories focus on Horatio as he and the Hotspur (and his first lieutenant Bush) get their ship ready to patrol the French coast and get intelligence on the French fleet; his deadly chase with the Loire; his daring raid on the French signal house, his night missions to thwart the French army, his near deadly winter at sea, and finally his adventure in Spain to get a frigate full of gold.
Just a joy to read these books again (I first read them 18 years ago), one of my favourite all time series.
As the most junior commander in the English fleet, he hugs the French coast and bribes fishermen for insights on policy ashore.
These combined challenges bring out the best in the young commander.An interesting aspect of the Hornblower books is watching Forester fulfill the biographical commitments he has made in "Beat to Quarters," the first written (and the best) of the Hornblower books.
For example, in "Beat to Quarters," Forester lets us know that Hornblower is married to a plain, not particularly intelligent woman with whom he had children.
"Hotspur" is rather episodic, a la Midshipman Hornblower, with each chapter describing a different action along the French coast.
Chronologically, this is the fourth book in Hornblower series, telling the tale of Horatio Hornblower's command of the Sloop-of-war HMS Hotspur.
(I've read that Horatio Hornblower was part of the inspiration for Captain Kirk.) I think one reason I'd rather pick up this novel rather than one of the multitude of Trek novels out there is that Hotspur shows the challenges of not only fighting a war but the regular hardships of keeping a warship afloat and functioning.
Anyway, that's why Hornblower and the "Hotspur" goes on my shelf, and will undoubtedly be followed by the other books in the series.
Naval manuevers: to the extent a land lubber like me could appreciate this sort of thing I found his descriptions of naval manuevers and Hornblowers ingenuity to be very engaging, page-turny sort of stuff.
I recently read "The Perfect Storm" and some of the maritime concepts seemed to carry over (which I guess is a good thing given that previous book is roughly nonfiction).
What I thought could have been improved: I would have appreciated a glossary of naval terms and explanations of certain maritime assumptions, as a lot of stuff is taken for granted.
Forrester captures the essence of Hornblower - I am a bit miffed why he took the tack he did with Hornblower's wife?
And, is Hornblower going to imitiate the great Lord Nelson later in life?
Interesting continuation of Hornblower's life...he's growing in self-esteem, trust and gaining confidence in himself and those around him.
Fortunate to have one who champions his career, but with Cornwallis' retirement at the end of this volume...I know Hornblower must continue the upward path - but - how is the question at this point.
The other question is what happens to Hornblower's wife and children?
Continuing immediately following "Lieutenant Hornblower", this book includes the start of Horatio's ill-fated first marriage and tells the story of his first independent command. It also shows him now as essentially a mature man with the emergence of the conflicted yet iron-willed, resourceful commander of the later stories.In many ways, the arc of Hornblower's career, from raw teenaged Midshipman to Admiral is reflected in the quality of the writing, beginning with a series of modest adventure stories such as this one and reaching a peak of literary accomplishment with his adventures as Commodore in the Baltic.
As personagens são familiares e fáceis de decorar, e Mr.Bush está sempre presente no seu direto mas agradável modo em que sabemos bem o que está a pensar: algo simples e sem imaginação mas de algum modo agrada-nos e faz-nos estima-lo.Há uma grande tendência para o tema da coragem(sentir medo não era sequer natural, quanto mais mostrá-lo) e do sangue-frio em batalha, e aprendemos bem que a morte está sempre por perto a bordo de um navio da época.
Book 3 of the series.
Action and adventure on the 19th century high seas as England fights Nappy’s French Navy.
The newly married Hornblower has command of his first ship- a small sloop- named the Hotspur.
Batten down your mizzenmast for high speed adventure.
With Bush as his first Lieutenant, HH engages the French and gets the best of them.
Cannonballs, charging Royal Marines, crazed Frenchmen along with Maria and little Horacio highlight Forrester’s third Hornblower novel.
A winner in every respect.
Heroic characters, tense scenes and non stop adventure.
Rule Britannia, Britannia rules the waves, Britons never, never, never shall be slaves.
C.S. Forester takes one into the life of a 19th century British Naval Officer like no other. This book was a bit slower than it's predecessor, but it really made up for it.It gives such vivid insight into the everday life of a man in the British Navy. It goes into the bureaucracy that plagued the navy at the time. The most interesting aspect of the novel was Hornblower's struggle with his own sense of morality which up until now, had been set in stone. Overall, a great read and leaves you anticipating the next novel.
This book was first published in 1962 and as far as I know has never been out of print - the latest issue being july 2017. It still manages to stirs the imagination, and it has been 50 years since I last read 'Hornblower and the Hotspur'. When I read C.S. Forestser, his phraseolgy never fails to enhance the story to such an extent that I must keep reading well after bedtime.
Geez, I never thought I'd read a book about a Napoleonic era character who was so devoted to duty and propriety yet so likable. C.S. Forster... the man could write.
Following a marriage, Horatio is given command of the 'Hotspur' and is leading from the front in the naval blockade of France. Even after years of sea going it is comforting to know that Hornblower is still troubled by sea sickness and whilst outwardly he demonstrates a calm decisive manner, internally he is awash of conflicting thoughts.
In this book, we see that Hornblower regrets getting married.
Further, given his monotonous duties of the French blockade – and Napoleon’s 200,000 troops waiting on the coast – he has little chance at prize money.
He never sees himself as a hero but rather only as a Royal Navy officer doing his duty.
Forester also does a wonderful job of explaining the intricacies’ of sailing – and he does it within the story, without the impression of an instructional text.
I’m hooked on the Hornblower series and looking forward to reading the remaining eight books.
I put this book on my list about a year ago, but when it came up to the top, I kept passing it over for something else as I couldn't get excited about the prospect of reading it.
I don't think the story itself is particularly memorable, but the descriptions of nautical life in the time of the Napoleonic wars was wonderful.
The descriptions of the misery of fighting a gale for days on end in the cold while eating nothing more than weevily​ biscuits and salt pork and on half water rations (half a gallon per day for all purposes)​ make me give a hearty "no, thank you!"
If folks who have trained naval officers in qualities beneficial to command over the past two centuries have not used these books as required reading, I would be very surprised.
Likewise, folks training aspiring authors of historical fiction would do well to use these books as a model.In the past two books (chronologically speaking) Horatio Hornblower has been rising through the ranks on a couple of British Navy ships in the years leading up to the war against Napoleon Bonaparte.
In this offering, we are gratified to see the deserving young officer given his first command, albeit of the spritely little Hotspur.
Written later than many of the books but set earlier than most of them, this would be an excellent introduction to Horatio Hornblower's character and milieu.
Although his self-consciousness sometimes grates (especially when dealing with poor Maria), this book shows more clearly than some of the others how Horatio does tend to do the right thing, it's just that his over-analysis of his own motives and the situation can drive the reader mad.
This novel has a couple of amazing action sequences--a raid on a gunpowder store and a sea battle--but the real power is in Hornblower's interactions and relations with his two very different personal servants in the course of the book.
I'm at the last few chapters and the story telling and fleshing out of the Horblower character really make this a fine addition to the series.I do have one caveat, and that is due to the heavy use of nautical terms.
I do find myself lost at times when Forester describes in accurate and minute detail how a sloop ship is navigated with the use of sails, winds, sheets, tacking, et cet.
Everything else about the book hinges on your identification of the main character and the choices that he makes throughout his current adventure.
This is probably one of C.S. Forester's best novels. In this book Hornblower is at his very best. The naval battle scenes are wonderful, especially the engagement with the Loire. You can also really feel the contrast between his professional successful self and the struggles he faces on a personal level. You can't help but really feel sorry for both him and Maria. I listened to the audio book and the narration was nearly pitch perfect.
This is the third novel in the Hornblower series. Excellent follow-up to Lieutenant Hornblower; in this novel, which is told from Hornblower's point of view, we continually encounter the duality of his character: prone to acts of reckless courage, but privately chastising himself for cowardice; by nature a kindly person, but determined to properly mete out discipline; typically confident of his duty in battle, but in his personal life, and in peacetime, full of doubt.
Hornblower and the Hotspur (Hornblower Saga: Chronological Order #3) by C.S. Forester (Back Bay Books 1962) (Fiction). It is 1803, Napoleon is building an army, and the newly married Horatio Hornblower has been promoted to Commander and given command of the three masted schooner the Hotspur. Hornblower has more worries over his interpersonal life than anything else, he avers. My rating: 7/10, finished 2005.
