https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19486421-skin-game
It occurred to me today when I sat down to write a review of this book, that I've never gone into detail about my Dresden Files obsession online.
That includes books I *overflow* with love for, like Lynch's Gentleman Bastard series.
I love these books so much that when Ghost Story came out, I read the *entire* series starting at book one, so I would be ready for the newest book.
For this book, Skin Game, I would probably have done the same thing again.
And that Jim made me cry, like, four goddamn times in this book.
Loved this book, as usual.I want to start with a quote from Jim Butcher:For me personally, CHANGES – GHOST STORY – COLD DAYS is the big three-part special episode that comes in the middle of the season like they used to do in the old shows, like in the 70s and 80s.
Harry's in a bind and almost without any allies...Now if you are reading this book, you know what to expect in a Harry Dresden story, Jim Butcher piles up the comedy (Parkour!), terrific action sequences, crafty plot twists and some neat character reappearances.
When a series starts getting up into the double digits usually one of two things happens, either the story seems to lose track of itself and it wallows directionlessly under its bloated weight, or the characters stop developing because the author has run out of ideas on how they can continue to grow, so they stagnate, never learning anything new, and basically becoming a stereotype of themselves.
A lot of people didn't like what becoming the Winter Knight was doing to Dresden.
It is well written, and even after fifteen books, Butcher finds new and interesting things for Dresden to do and face.
My love for this series is now almost unprecedented, and quite irrational. My objectivity makes a mad dash for the nearest exit any time Harry Dresden is concerned. Because Harry and I? We have been through some tough shit together, and that is the friendship that's truly unbreakable. “Well, hell,” I said. “What’s the world coming to if you can’t trust Santa Claus?” Yes, I know there are probably many reasons why I should be critical of these books. The savior complex. The not-so-rare deus-ex-ma
“You know he’s not going to honor the truce,” I said quietly.
What is she going to do with me then?” “Oh, Harry,” Michael said.
“What is she going to do with you if she can’t?”_________Wonderful, fun, fast-paced story that makes me want to reread the previous 14 books so that I can once again relive this whole journey with Harry Dresden, the Wizard of the White Council, the Warden of Demonreach, The Winter Knight, the loyal friend, the worried father, and the awesome guy to grab a couple beers with.To me, you are perfect.
Okay....listen very carefully, or if you're a stickler for accuracy...read very, very carefully:If for some reason, curiosity, accident or whatever you have decided to look at this review and you HAVEN'T read Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden books, stop whatever you are doing...reading this review, eating a meal, pretending to work as you browse the internet, surgery, having sex, whatever it takes, disconnect your IV tubes, put your oxygen tank on wheels NOW.
Update, Jan. 27, 2015By the way Mr. Butcher...Jim, it's come to our attention that you're working on a new series.
New book this year!!Update: 13 Nov 2013, uh, what?! It's not going to be released Dec 3rd? So I've been lied to for months now?!!! Someone's gonna have to die for this treachery!Update: 6 Jan 2014...... WOOHOO. Official release date May 27th. Update & review: 1 Jun 2014.Well, well, well. What a game. Mab, you wicked faerie. This book was very good, plenty of action, development for the series, and for Harry in particular. It made it me cry at least twice, maybe three times. Hard to do.My only complaint; I wish we could've seen Thomas (& McCoy). Five stars.
This combined with Harry's complete inability to get laid despite the fact that quite a few drop-dead gorgeous women literally throw themselves at him in every story makes the series look like it was written by a sexually frustrated teen boy (I am talking about a very young teen here).
Final showdown comes up; Harry gets beaten practically to death, but he pulls up a hidden reserve from his ass at the very last moment, so he survives.
I see every single book as a proof that Harry Dresden gets severely punished for choosing to be a good guy.
Anyone else really looking forward to Dresden's next encounter with Kincaid? I think as moments go, 'priceless' would be an understatement :)
[4.5 stars] Following my two (okay, three) least favorite books of the series, I went into Skin Game fearing Jim Butcher had lost his touch and had dragged the story on too long.
What a delightful surprise when Skin Game turned out to be one of, if not my favorite Dresden book so far.
It quickly turned a novel I was determined to “get through” into a book I couldn’t put down.
Skin Game reinvigorated my enthusiasm for the series and I am genuinely excited to see where the story goes next.
May 28 2014HOLY.FUCKING.SHIT.I knew this book was going to be good but I never expected it to go to that level of epic.
It had EVERYTHING I wanted, resolved a lot of stuff, advanced several things that have been stagnant for a while and we had DENARIANS again.
The only thing that I was a bit disappointed at was the lack of Toe-mas.
Might be the best book in the series so far.And now I'm sad cause I have 1-2 years ahead of me until the next one.Time to read the rest of the series again.GOD.May 27 2014This is moi today:May 22 2014I can't.
In it, we find out that Mab has various debts which she has incurred over the years and Mab is very keen on getting her debts paid, and when one of the people she owes shows up and asks for a favour, she loans him Harry Dresden in order to help him.
So Harry is going to find himself, by command of Queen Mab, assisting Nicodemus Archleon in a heist.
Also reveiwed for Addicted2HeroinesWow. Book 15, already?Huh. Well I guess since I've been reading these books for years now, that sort of makes sense.So.How did Skin Game hold up to scrutiny?It was classic Dresden.
And, just like all the other novels, the action never lets up enough for you to catch your breath.Also, if you were hoping there was some resolution to Harry's multiple problems?Psssht.
Forget it!Looks like book 16 will hit the stores sometime in 2015, but I'm not counting on that one laying anything to rest, either.If you've ever read a book from the Dresden Files, then you know there's not really a way to coherently explain everything that goes on in the story.Too much!
Worst idea ever.It was bad enough I was already upset with Butters in the beginning of the book for thinking Dresden was his bitch.
No, he doesn't have time to play superhero for the city again!Good gracious, if Butters wasn't Dresden's go-to doctor, I would have told the dude to fuck off.
Anyway, I hope poetic justice will be served in future books now that Butters, in his new role as a hero instead of just as a sidekick, will experience the shit Dresden and others go through.
This is Harry Dresden.
This is Harry the Bolshevik Muppet.* .
(view spoiler)[I vote Sanya, because that provides a certain nice symmetry.
I vote all three.Otherwise, I want to know:(view spoiler)[--Hey, remember the Fomorians terrorizing Chicago?
How's that going, then?--Cowl and Kumori: totally think they're Justin and Elaine, but I'd like to find out for sure.--Who had Nic on a timetable in #5?--Who sideswiped Dresden in #8 and bombed Murph's car in #9?--And anyway, considering our info came from Maeve, what actually happened in #8?
I suspect the explanation starts with "Uh....".--Please, please, do not let the title pun mean what I think it does.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
If anyone was new to urban fantasy this is the first series I’d recommend.
Character development over the series is phenomenal, not only for Harry Dresden, but all the rest of the cast too.
And boy Am I glad I paced myself because it’s only now that I have to join the queue of Harry Dresden fans waiting impatiently for the next book.And the audio is excellent.
It’s only the last couple of books I’ve picked up on audio, so now at least I can treat myself to the whole series again in audio.In case you haven’t guessed..Recommended.
*4.5 stars*Though this wasn't my favorite Harry Dresden book, it was still amazing.
Part of that is because the audio of this book is so good I could cry.
The audio of this series, especially the later books, is simply the gold standard of what an audiobook can be.
The audio for this book was astonishingly good, and I think even if the book was terrible, I could never do anything but love it.
The story was exciting, Harry was impressive, and the audio was divine.
Now I just have to suffer and wait for the next book to come out.
it's Dresden, how can it be anything other than five stars.just finished the book...Holly Crap!!!!!!!!!!!!
I say not surprisingly because readers should know that when the Denarians and Michael play a role in the book, Harry's moral compass is pushed and questioned.
Factor in that Butcher releases decent short stories every year in the Dresden world, writes a fantasy series (Codex Alera -6 books) and is starting a new series (The Cinder Spires -- August 2014) Sounds like a recipe for disaster or boredom.
Jim Butcher is somehow able to continuously write a book set in the same world, which advances the story line, progresses the characters, stays consistent with the world he constructed over a decade ago and is still brilliantly interesting.
I should have a whole new category for this. 'To Read' doesn't quite cover it. Maybe, 'Must Read'?
Yes, Mab has her Winter Knight teaming up with some of the most evil characters we've come to loathe over the series to help them rip off a treasure trove from the very jaws of hell - or the Greek version of hell.
Well let's check the list - ...Winter Mantle - check...Soulfire - check...Some old and familiar friends to watch his back - check...A bigger stick - check...A bigger gun - check...Parkour!
And fans, old and new, of James Marsters will be treated to some excellent voice acting as Marsters gets his evil on.Parkour!4.25 stars
Review Posted to  The Literary Lawyer.ca   Silver Gavel for Best Novel of 2014  My #8 Read of 2014  Oceans 11, Harry Dresden Style - 5 Stars Just when I thought the series had "jumped the shark" and was on a express trip down the crapper, Jim Butcher pulls off a magnificent effort with his latest and greatest. For my money,  Skin Games  is one of the best three in the series. The story is one of the best thought out, organized and exciting in many years. I hang my head in shame for uttering the
Review Posted to  The Literary Lawyer.ca   Silver Gavel for Best Novel of 2014  My #8 Read of 2014   Oceans 11, Harry Dresden Style - 5 Stars  Just when I thought the series had "jumped the shark" and was on a express trip down the crapper, Jim Butcher pulls off a magnificent effort with his latest and greatest.
If you have been reading the series you know there is something in Harry's head.
Content Advisories  It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
Sure, we still have the White Council politics, vampire mischief, Fae Court shenanigans, and what have you, but once more we’re back to having a very tightly focused story around a single EPIC situation – it’s heist time, baby!
This book was just pure fun, harkening back to the days when I could enjoy a good Harry story without having it spin out of control into half a dozen different directions.
Executive Summary: While not quite as good as Cold Days, Jim Butcher once again shows why he's the king of Urban Fantasy and one of the best fantasy writers out there.Audio book: James Marsters once again makes this series a must listen.
If for some reason you still haven't caught up on this series after Cold Days, consider this another recommendation to get on it.Thankfully I'll have The Aeronaut's Windlass to read to tide me over over while I return to vigil of waiting for the next Dresden Files book.
15 books into this series and I am not even a little bored with it, nor am I tired of reading about Harry Dresden.
I loved that Michael was back in this one and that Harry seems to be almost back to himself again after the events of the last three books.
And can Harry please, please have a home in the next book?This could be the best book out of the whole series, but there were a couple of others that I loved just as much.
This book moved me in a way that most urban fantasy doesn't.
I can't wait to read the next book in the series.
I have been having an iffy run of books lately.
That would be The Martian by Andy Weir, and this book right here.This book is everything that I've come to expect from the Dresden series.
Exciting action, crazy risks, complex plots, and Harry Fucking Dresden.
But these last couple books...
I love Harry's conflicted mental state right now, and I know it's messed up to say so, but I kinda don't want it to end.
I mean, I do, eventually, but I just love this series so much that I kinda don't want it to end...
If we have another 8 books coming...
I think this was the best one in the series so far. Mab scares the s**t out of me! Can't wait to read #16!
It goes against my usual attitude of continuing a series until the bitter end even if I’m not enjoying it but I’d well and truly had enough of reading the same things over and over and the last few books in the series failed to impress me.Suffice to say after this one I will not be reading any more books in this series, from here on out I will only ever listen to them!
I also think that the story for this book was a lot more interesting than they have been for the previous few, I actually enjoyed this one whereas I’ve been quite disappointed with the others.
As always there’s a new twist / additional character each story which gets my attention & the story / lives of all involved moves along with perils / trials thrown at them along the way.
The pre-caper part(s) went from enthralling to maybe at times becoming padding as it did seem to go on a bit with a ways of near scrapes for those involved.....
Its certainly a strong four stars & a great addition to the Dresden series.Good points, the ongoing development of his “relationship” with Mab, Queen of air & darkness with their endless jousting, Dresden always thinking he’s ahead of the game only to.......
(If you have no idea what a Winter Knight entails, go back a few novels rather than starting with this one.)Harry does not go willingly but he goes with Mab to a meeting in Chicago where he witnesses a bizarre ritual in which someone is inducted into the service of the other-worldly, Nicodemus.
This story rolls out over 400+ pages with hardly a pause.From my perspective, Jim Butcher brings his “A game” to almost every Dresden novel.
A little romance, some surprising monsters and a lot of action come folded into this Dresden File.
“What is the most relevant question, then?”Hades settled back into his chair. “Why would I, Hades, take such a personal interest in you, Harry Dresden?” Why indeed.The ever cunning Winter Queen Mab twists Harry's hand to pay off a debt of hers, and because Harry is now the Winter Knight of the Winter Court he just can't refuse. For that, he has to help lead a group of vicious supervillains break into a mythical legendary vault in the Nevernever (the fantasy world under our own real world). Prob
There's also Karrin Murphy, ex-cop and Harry's most trusted friend and ally (who maybe more than a friend to him and vice versa); the badass Michael Carpenter (with the Carpenter family) and his Knights of the Cross - who are like the opposite of Blackened Denarious handpicked by God Himself to help people of earth; Angel Uriel; the always awesome medical examiner Waldo Butters...
And every single one of them plays a crucial and important role in this upcoming 'Skin Game'.Mix Harry Dresden's realistic magical universe with Greek Mythology and a quest (or was it Ocean's Eleven and a heist?
