https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76664.A_Spell_for_Chameleon
Aforementioned Sabrina will not give up everything she knows & loves to follow Bink into exile, and therefore she doesn't love him enough (another example of childishness, but it also shows how Anthony views women as less than people, more like accessories).
It's all "needs" "urges" "absolutely beautiful" "me tarzan, you jane." Even born mouth-breathers can write well (see: Lawrence Durrell, Henry Miller), so what gives?The only reason I can figure for my earlier positive impression (aside from being 12 at the time & clueless) is that I was taken in by Anthony's imaginative world-building & skillful plotting.
It took several years for what exactly made me maddest about this book to sink in. I finally figured it out. When our narrator and Chameleon (in ugly phase) were imprisoned together, Chameleon asked for a curtain for some privacy for the chamber pot. Our narrator nodded wisely to himself: a beautiful girl does not mind being looked at, but an ugly girl wants to hide herself from the eyes of everyone. In the absence of being able to pitch the narrator across the room, I settled for the book.
Very original and with good storytelling, this is a good fantasy by an excellent writer.
Bink is at first banished from Xanth for apparently not having a magical talent until it is revealed that he does have a very unique magical quality.The element of this book that I still remember today ( I read this in HS more than 25 years ago) is the magical characteristics of Chameleon.
Her beauty and charisma runs inversely to her intelligence, similar to a menstrual cycle.
So as the month goes on, she gets more and more attractive while she gets less and less intelligent.
Then, the cycle reverses, her IQ waxes as her beauty wanes, until she is a near genius hag!
It’s a place where walking off into the woods at night is almost sure to get you killed, and the method of demise can be as inane as “death by peacefulness” (which essentially boils down to losing all interest in living).Bizarre dialogue interlude"May we stop for a drink?" "Not here!
That’s to say, what may have been relevant in 1977 (when A Spell For Chameleon was published), may not be relevant today, but should not by default disqualify the book.
It was dangerous to play with magic unless the precise nature of the spell was understood.
I wish I could give this book a higher review.
The storytelling is tight, the magic is interesting, and it can be occasionally funny.
But the characters are mostly two-dimensional, with maybe an extra half dimension added to The Evil Magician Trent and to Chameleon of the book's title.
Chameleon herself could be a truly great character if Anthony had much interest in watch she thinks of her condition, of how her thinking changes as she changes, or in any other aspect of her as a person.
He's supposed to be 25 years old?
I've met 12 year old boys with more maturity.
Utterly repulsive.The second real issue I had was not quite so offensive (not hard to be less offensive than that scene), but it did still rub me the wrong way (VERY spoilery spoilerage).(view spoiler)[The titular Chameleon is a young woman whose magic talent is a bit of a problem: She transforms throughout the month (on schedule with the female cycle, she explains >_>) from a stunningly beautiful but astonishingly stupid woman, to a woman average in looks and intellect, to a stunningly ugly but astonishingly brilliant woman.
A Spell for Chameleon by Piers Anthony, first in the Xanth series, was to be my quickie 49th book on my list.
This is what's going on.Looking up Piers Anthony, I found his preoccupation with teenage or younger and the intellectually challenged being molested was a big thing with him.
read this in junior high while staying at my aunt's house. read it on an ugly couch covered in plastic. read it cover to cover, realized I loved it, then read it again. jacked off to it too. my aunt's house was next to a smelly sewage plant so it was sort of a struggle at that. but I soldiered on! read it a third time years later but the magic was gone. years after that, when I was living in a punk rock flophouse, the couch was donated to us. oh the memories on that couch.
So, Piers Anthony is a pervert, a sexist pervert.
But the story lacks direction, a bit like a badly planned Dungeon and Dragons session: "an encounter!
you fall in a hole!
Final argument for why this book sucks: rape apology.
There is actually a rape trial in this book.
Let's look at a couple extracts: "Bink felt sorry for his opposite.
" 'Your opposite, the one you almost raped'.
and I doubt I'll read anything else by Anthony in the near future.PS: Breasts breasts breasts getting married is what you should do breasts let's get married.
Even after all this time, Anthony still has trouble putting a sentence together, or making his dialogue sparkle or creating a convincing character (either male or female!) Not even for the puns, although they are rarely a disappointment (although lately he has taken to shoe-horning entire paragraphs of them together as though he wants to get them out of the way.) And when he uses one for a title, it's always a doozy: who else would dare to call a novel Stork Naked?!It's for the ideas and the structures.
One Xanth novel often contains more ideas than some novelists manage in an entire career.
I got book 2 of this series first, read it a couple of times before I finally got the first.
I think the first 4 books are well worth reading - a must read for anyone into fantasy books.
I think the series is up in the 20 odd count somewhere now.
The first 3 or 4 are excellent.
After that, I just couldn't get too into it any more.
When this came out, it was unlike any series before it AND was funny on top of that.
Humor in this sort of fiction is hard to pull off, but Anthony did it very well.
2.5 stars. First in the Xanth series of books. Took me a while to get around to reading this as it has been on my "to read" list for a while. A decently written, fun book with a good system of magic and interesting world-building. Definitely on the lighter side, but I enjoyed the puns and the tone of the book. Not as good as some of Anthony's other books (most notably On a Pale Horse), but still a good read.
Wow.i began reading the Xanth series somewhere around the 15th or 16th book many years ago.
It was filled with light-hearted drama, action and puns that made me laugh out loud.But this first book was such an original idea & filled with an amazing amount of tension, thoughts, morals, as well as the drama & etc.
To begin at the beginning was very rewarding & i am eager to resume my Quest.
One of the first series that really got me hooked on reading. i had to buy every one of these as soon as they came out (showing my age!) I recommend to anyone who enjoys reading Fantasy and is amused by PUNS.
And now that he's approaching adulthood, he has to find his magic...or face exile.I struggled with this one, but I read the first sixty pages before I finally gave up.
Either way, this was a challenge to read.The other thing I couldn't get into is the "everybody has one magic skill and that's it" thing - and many of the skills were unexceptional or useless at best.
This is an adult man writing really adolescent stuff, obsessed with women's breasts (his characters notice them even in life-and-death situations) and really emotionally shallow.
You would think he would want to help create a better, less-sexist world for his children, if not for society in general.
Its a shame, since he does create a semi-interesting world and comes up with some interesting plot twists.
I'll continue reading a few more in the series because that's part of my project, but wow, I never want to meet this guy in person--I don't think he sees women as real people.
This 1st Xanth book held my interest.
I was reluctant to get into the series based on the many charges of sexism raised by reviewers.
A female friend discounted these and I jumped in.
Glad I did.
Lots of themes in this one pertaining to characteristics and traits of the female gender - intrinsic to the plot - but this did not strike me as denigration.
I thought the ending was a bit weak - like he was trying to wrap up loose ends in a hurry - but it won't stop me from continuing in the series.
What I'm saying is Fantasy as a genre is often reduced to wish fulfillment, and that is by far the more juvenile approach.The 'not all that attractive but plucky' farm girl who the prince falls madly in love with for no apparent reason is more sexist and offensive, in my mind, than anything in this book.And for young guys to consider the themes here, even if they end up agreeing with som eof the author's rather wayward thinking, is a much healthier thing (at least they have the opportunity to disagree with him) than a young woman reading a sad 'one day my prince will come' piece of pseudo-erotica.That said, this is an early book in the writer's career.
Surely one of the most despised books of all time.
I could bash it for hours, so I'll try instead to say some nice things.
I commend the author's bravery for sticking to his vision.
At times it does portray the less than ideal state of male adolescence.
It has lots of fantasy monsters.
I abandoned this several times since middle school, and my instincts were correct: for most people it is best avoided.
This listening was twenty years in the making, and only possible due to a cassette transferred to Youtube and listened to at high speed.
What a mess.
This book was SO bad, I forgot I even read the thing!
Yeah, I know, it is not really part of the story, but hey, at least one thing in this book was ok, right?
I liked how the author chose the number of pages this book was written on.
Ok, sure, the idea about having a cool super power was not so bad, but I find that I have already read SO MANY BOOKS ABOUT THE SAME THING!!!!
Eww. The main character of this book was T-E-R-R-I-B-L-E.
Piers Anthony is an author who is more conceptually innovative than literary.
None of Anthony's books takes long to read, and you'll be able to tell by the first 100 pages of a series whether you're into his concept.Xanth is a great series about a world of magic where humans each have one magical ability--give or take--of varying potency, and almost everything in nature is a pun on a concept in Mundania (our world).
The books lost steam as the series continued, but it was fun in the early going (the first eight books?) as the history and politics were fun to watch resolve, and you got attached to the characters.
This was a re-read. I originally read it around 1980. I remembered it being a lot of fun and read about 6 more in the series. After that, they started to feel like they were factory manufactured. Someone told me there are now about 30 books in the series. On this second read of the first Xanth book, I still thought they were fun but the puns didn't seem as clever as when I was younger. I was also more annoyed with the author's obvious sexism. But hey! A Spell for Chameleon is still cute and worth the read.
Below the cut, you'll hear more, there will be spoilers, there will be a lot of gross talk about rape culture, and a shitton of sexism will be unveiled.So, there's a story behind why I read this book.
But then goes on to dehumanize women in telling Bink how he'd be bored with a beautiful woman with no mind.Blah, blah, blah, Bink is about to go see the wizard because his hot girlfriend really hopes he has magic so he won't get exiled but it's hard because epic quests have to be, and he meets a centaur.
A lot of people have put it this way: in this book, women can be beautiful, smart, or good.
I originally read this in my early preteen years and I loved the way it awakened my imagination.
Now I've read all the reviews about Anthony being sexist, but I've found that I have to put this in perspective.
I think Anthony knows his target audience is mostly adolescent young men in their early teens.
Guess what teen boys think about non stop?
There is only one part in any of the Xanth series that I find to be distasteful and that is the infamous rape trial in A Spell For Chameleon, as I think most people do.
This book is a classic, and by that I mean that I have seen copies of this book everywhere since I've been interested in reading fantasy.
The cover art by Michael Whelan is almost iconic.
Yes, I was at odds with several character's viewpoints.
Yes, I was bored with Bink's meandering.
As a side note, there was quite a bit of sexism in this story.
But from a lot of the reviews I've read this struck a raw nerve with several people.
I don't condone actual sexism but in a story, meh.
It is after all just a story.
It has a nice cover if nothing else.
Within the book's original context of the late seventies, perhaps this seemed more clever than it does now. But, now we have Douglas Adams and Terry Pratchett, who are much funnier. And don't rely on the cheapest possible puns, and don't write stories geared toward horny middle-school boys. One of the strangest phenomenons in fantasy, and perhaps in all of reality, is that Piers Anthony still sells tons of books. If anyone can shed some light on why, I'd love to hear it.
I turned to the Xanth series because I wanted an enjoyable summer read that would remind me of my childhood instead of my thesis.
(I imagine he would be an ideal video game writer, though I don't know much about that career field.) But aside from chuckling at his creative Xanth flora and fauna (such as "ambushes": shrubbery that are invisible until you least suspect to see them) I didn't find much here to captivate even my fantasy-obsessed inner child.
I'll have to find a new means of procrastinating on my thesis because I'll never be able to continue the series.
Awesome read, and so much fun!I loved the main characters; they were all so quirky in their own ways, intelligent and straightforward without being whiny and know-it-all.
Bink made a great lead; for once, a fantasy hero who isn't invincible OR a whiny, angsty loser!
Bink's one is pretty complex, and so is Chameleon's, although hers is easy to guess after a while.
Anthony's light sense of humour that pervades the book made it a fun read and perfect for fans of light fantasy, although loyal readers of epic fantasy might find the world-building aspect of Xanth very much lacking.
I like many other reviewers read these books when I was rather young.My dad started me on them when I was about 11 and was breezing through children books so fast it was damaging his credit card with trips to borders and gas to the library.
As a child a read horse books, Nancy Drew and a few fairy tales, but this opened up a whole new world to me.
(I'm slightly distraught over this, part of me really wants to re-read them but I know my adult mind will not overlook the sexism the second time around and I don't want to ruin my memory of them.) So why 5 stars?
I read this when I was 15-16 years old, which I now think is the target market for Anthony (at least with this series). I think it's easy for teenagers to identify with Bink: he's an outcast, he doesn't fit in. But then there comes a point where actual plot is required-- writing entire novels around puns just isn't enough to maintain my interest. I enjoyed The Source of Magic as well, but I was unable to finish Castle Roogna.
