https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762462.One_Up_On_Wall_Street
Conversely, if a business that seems to be doing great but you don't like its products or services and many others agree with you, maybe you should avoid it -- the business may be about to tank.I still remember reading a blurb from this book in a magazine when I was 12, about how Lynch should have invested in Hanes when his wife came home from the grocery store having bought the new L'Eggs hose because the quality of the product was good and the delivery mechanism (a grocery store) was way better than the traditional department store.
A very helpful book for those who want to gain some basic knowledge about how stocks work in the financial market and how to select the best portfolio of securities. Lynch shared his experiences and told us how he felt or how he dealt with losses and success when investing. I personally liked this book and he made these seemingly difficult concepts so much easier!
ok let's go!REVIEW:main position:many people think that it's impossible for an average individual to compete on wall street against huge and infinitely resourced companies.lynch rejects this assumption, and posits the opposite: the average person actually has an advantage, since it is she who is in constant contact with the everyday representation of a stock's products.examples: lynch took a large long position in the Gap after his wife and all her girlfriends fell in love with it.
also took a large long position in hanes, the company behind L'eggs, again on his wife's advance, made money.examples abound in this book: la quinta motor inns, taco bell, philip morris, etc.
Regular re-read (every 5-10 years) of one of my two favorite investment books.
His investment style is a combination of growth and value investing, so called GARP--growth at a reasonable price.
While he made most of the money in big cap stocks like Wal-Mart or turnarounds like Volvo, Ford and Chrysler, he loved investing in small caps.
This book covers it all.
It's the most practical book on investing and the smartest.
(His initial advice, by the way, is: before investing in stocks, buy a house.
You'll see.)Whether you like growth or value, small or big caps, this book will be useful.
A must read for novice stock investors , oversimplified but drives home important concepts.
I originally picked this book because after I read a lot about Warren Buffett's investing I decided to see other people's style.
This was a good read but it was specific to Lynch's style so it was not applicable to today's investment decisions.
He describes everything that happened in an easy way to read.
The book emphasizes through numerous examples the importance of understanding the companies you invest in, picking winners, and collecting the important facts.
This book is significant to people staring on investment because it teaches you that the average investor can get rich.
The book is a fun read and gives novices, such as myself, some basic fundamentals and concepts before we rush in (again) to lose our money (again) while the big boys rake all the profits (again) in the casino we all know as the stock market.
There is no specific advice in this book other than to spend as much time researching a stock as you would buying a new refrigerator; however I found the general concepts interesting and informative.
But reader beware, even though the book is short Lynch does get the point across that choosing your own stocks is and making money is a combination of perspiration and luck.
I learned from this book that the average (non-institutional) investor can pick winning stocks with the same success as professionals can.
I am unsure about this, as I am highly skeptical any investor (professional or amateur) can beat the market.
As a proponent of indexing - the idea that a broadly diversified fund invested in a basket of stocks - can beat actively managed funds, I found Lynch's advice not completely believable.
Especially when Lynch admits that he's made some disastrous stock calls, but has made up for it with some equally successful picks, I found myself asking: why not just park the money in an index fund?
The best book on stocks and markets anyone can get their hands on. The book gives Wonderful insights into studying diferent businesses and then going after stocks. Easy Read and Interesting examples makes this book, one of the pioneers in this field of study.
You can get the concept faster.I am still applying the tips I found in here.PROS:* Very well written and easy for any lay person to understand* Reads like a story, goes over some of Peter's personal successes* Gives specific examples based on Peter's life experience* Describes also his failures, so it gives a balanced view* Uses common sense and explains things in ways that are logical.
If you are resourceful, you can think of ways to apply his concepts without being the VP or CEO of some financial company.)Of course, any book will only be as valuable as what you personally take out of it.
Very interesting read on Peter Lynch's investment techniques. Good amount of basics and a somewhat more aggressive approach as compared to conservative, academic, stick to indexing approach. It also helps that the author is at times funny and most of the times makes the content easier to read for people with not much knowledge of economics and finance.
First book I haven't been able to finish in a while. It was outdated before the current financial collapse, now it's just stupid to read. Plus Peter Lynch likes himself way too much. Pass on this one and bury your money in the backyard.
A book with light humor... A beginner book for personal stock investment.
Key issue is price, p/e ratio will tell if you are paying too much.-Check for diworseifications that may reduce earnings in the future-Check the company's long-term growth rate, if it has kept up the same momentum in recent years.-If you plan to hold the stock forever, see how the company has fared during previous recessions and market drops.Selling signs:-If stock price gets above the earnings line, i.e. if pe strays too far beyond normal range-New products introduced in the last two years have had mixed results, others still in testing stage are a year away from the marketplace.-Has p/e of 15, while other similar quality companies in the same industry has p/e's of 11-12-No insider bought shares in the last year-A major division that contributes 25 percent of earnings is vulnerable to an economic slump that's taking place (housing, oil drilling, etc)-Company's growth rate has been slowing down even though it's been maintaining profits by cutting costs, future cost-cutting opportunities are limited.The Fast Growers:1.
Peter Lynch does such a great job explaining how you do not have to work on Wall Street to be successful in the stock market.
One Up on Wall Street provides a great overall foundation for investing and how people can utilize companies they know/understand and products they use and enjoy to make successful investments before the stock catches the attention of the large institutional investors.
Lynch does not believe in getting caught up in daily stock prices, he sought after undervalued companies that are consistently growing for 5-10 years.
Recently got into investing and this book was a solid start.
The best way to learn is from the masters, right?
He was not overly smart or special in any kind of way when he started to invest.
He was in some ways struggling and hoping for something better in life.
I will also look into reading more of his books as he is very smart and knows what works and what doesn't.
I'll let someone else go deeper into what he goes over in the book.
In fact, Lynch believes the individual investor actually has an advantage over the Wall Street fund manager because he’s not tied down because of company politics.For example, the average portfolio manager would rather put a fund’s money in a stalwart like Microsoft rather than in a highly profitable upstart in an obscure industry that nobody’s even heard of yet.
Why is that?As Lynch explains it, suppose this upstart takes a turn for the worse before it takes off for the stratosphere.The portfolio manager is immediately called on the carpet to explain why he picked this weird stock no one has heard of.
If everyone will look for tenbaggers who would create those in the first place? Well, though several minutes and recalled somewhere saw that financial and business billionaires are 50/50 (in U.S.), so probably everything's ok, no matter what you do, you still need to go to a lot of the shit.
All you need for a lifetime of successful investing is a few big winners, and the pluses from those will overwhelm the minuses from the stocks that don’t work out.As I look back on it now, it’s obvious that studying history and philosophy was much better preparation for the stock market than, say, studying statistics.
This results in a strange phenomenon: large funds are allowed to buy shares in small companies only when the shares are no bargain.The point is that fortunes change, there’s no assurance that major companies won’t become minor, and there’s no such thing as a can’t-miss blue chip.Historically, stocks are embraced as investments or dismissed as gambles in routine and circular fashion, and usually at the wrong times.
Quick easy read. Heavy emphasis on simple concepts and ideas about investing. A few more complex details are clearly explained too.
Just the book to start with for an aspiring investor. The amount of insight this book imparts in simple and easy to understand themes is invaluable. The rules, checklists and wisdom of lynch is inspiring.
My truthful opinoin of this book would be that the basics outline and concepts are still in play as of 2017, but how they impacted on his life doesnt concern me in the least and will never matter as time goes by...
One Up On Wall Street by John Rothchild was a great read about how to improve and increase your knowledge when it comes to the stock market and investment everywhere.
John gave three main tips and advice to follow when you invest on Wall Street.
Another piece of advice is that anyone can purchase stocks not just the rich or people in powerful positions.
I thought that this was a great informative book that will hopefully help my financial decisions in the future and can change my thoughts on the market place.
I was quite surprised how little Mr. Lynch spoke about the price of companies, except for those in asset plays, instead he spoke a LOT about stock charts and price movements.
I was also quite surprised when he talked about owning more than 1000 different stocks regularly.
I have this feeling there is something more behind his success that is beyond this book...Nonetheless, I'm very glad I read this book and learned about Peter Lynch and business!
More like a 3.7/5.It's an exceptional book if it's the first one your reading on investing.
But for someone who has read other material such as by Ben Graham will find a good part of this book rudimentary.
The 2nd part does a good job of providing for ways in which investment potentials can be classified.
For example, Peter is a big proponent of insiders buying shares in their own company.
Anyway, it is still a good book, and I recommend it to anyone that's interested in investing.
Investing without research is playing a stud poker and never looking at the cards.2.Only invest what you could afford to lose without that loss having any effect on your daily life in the foreseeable future.3.
Index funds have typical annual return of 9-10% .
if we dont want to play the market, it is better to invest in Mutual and Index funds and let it do the work.2.
we can expect 15-20% annual return from the stocks that we picked after research, but beyond 30% , is too much to expect.3.
Thats the advantage of picking right companies and stocks.
The incredible ease with which one can read this book meant that it far outpaced the Buffett biography.
This dated-ness demonstrates how nothing is a sure thing for too long.Mostly, this book provides 'homespun' wisdom, and suggestions for how to put your own experiences as a consumer to work in the market.
I enjoyed it immensely and have no doubt I will benefit from its lessons.************This reads ridiculously easy and is quite straightforward.
Though a bit dated (it was written shortly after the '87 crash) the lessons Lynch imparts seem timely enough.
It seems this will make a good companion read to the Buffett bio.
Took a moment to decide about reading any further - continued to read anyway because my other book was on my laptop which my son was using and I had nothing else to do.Reached page 73 and so far the author has given examples of opposites - a blue chip that gave astounding returns - another that gave astoundingly poor returns, bonds are good - bonds are bad, large caps are good/ safe - large caps can destroy your wealth, holding for long term is good - holding for long term is bad, amateurs will do good - amateurs don't now what they are doing.At page 73 the topmost question in my mind - kehna kya chahte ho, bhai?
Though the examples continue in same format i.e. some stock worked and some did not for the same guideline.
market - and one could picture how difficult it would have been to keep one's head while everyone was losing theirsDoesnt write much about price, and even though the book is aimed at retail investors, it is still quite interesting to take notes about historyChrysler had a tank divisionPhillip Morris had Miller, General Foods (WB owned a good chunk), Seven up, Kraft and price moved from 75 cents to 125 $A little known story about Melville Shoes - very Teledyne likeMcDonalds' ability to grow its business and moatFord in 1988 at a 1-3 PE ?
Peter Lynch was the manager of the phenomenally successful (on his watch) Fidelity Magellan Fund, thus becoming a legendary figure on Wall Street.
What he achieved is out of reach of everyone else but the methods he espouses here, and which contributed to his success, are not.
Lynch hasn't written a How-to-Become-Peter-Lynch book but you only really need to do better than the average investor to be a standout.
If you are interested in investing and aren't already a stock analysis geek you'll enjoy this book and probably get something out of it.
It's well written, well organized and easy to read.
