https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828015.The_Breadwinner
It is about an 11 year old girl called Parvana, who is forced by circumstances to be the breadwinner for her family in the war-torn Taliban-era of Kabul, in Afghanistan.
At the book’s end, the family’s future is still uncertain, since Parvana’s mother, sisters, and brother, are en route to another town that has been suddenly captured by the Taliban, and Parvana and her father must travel to meet them.The Breadwinner is an important book and one that girls (and guys) everywhere should read to learn how women are treated in some societies.
I discovered this book a few days back after watching the trailer of its movie adaption.
:vThis book highlights the story of an eleven years old girl named Parvana who leads a very miserable life in Afghanistan because of the Taliban.
I have read quite a lot of these war-related books starting from Khaled Hosseini’s Kite Runner to Marjane Satrapi’s Persepolis.
I feel they all have tried to highlight the effect of a war on children.
I believe that they are the biggest sufferer of any war.
*sigh*I loved this book.
The storyline is brilliantly structured and the style of writing was beautiful and easy to read.
داستان دربارهی پروانه و خانوادهشه، که از وقتی طالبان پدرشون رو دستگیر میکنه مجبور به استفاده از راههای عجیبی برای ادامه زندگی میشن. از جمله تبدیل کردن پروانه به پسر خانواده و فرستادنش برای کار در بازار.اگر معلم کتابخوانی و اینها میبودم، معلم نوجوونای این سنی، این رو توی دستور کارم قرار میدادم واقعا. از این نظر که از همه چیز مقداری داره. هم آدم رو طوری با داستان زندگی پروانه و خانوادهش همراه میکنه که هی دوست داری سریعتر بره جلو، هم تلخی داره که یادت نره داری دربارهی کجا میخونی، اما به قدر کافی بر
هم آدم رو طوری با داستان زندگی پروانه و خانواده‌ش همراه می‌کنه که هی دوست داری سریع‌تر بره جلو، هم تلخی داره که یادت نره داری درباره‌ی کجا میخونی، اما به قدر کافی برای یک نوجوون اون سنی(و این بنظرم نکته‌ی مثبتیه که بیش از هرچیز به این مربوطه که نویسنده فعال حقوق افغانستانی‌ها و اینها هست، اما خودش افغان نیست.
It is a beautifully written story about a young Afghan girl named Parvana who is growing up in Taliban-occupied Afghanistan.
Her story is amazing, I know that it is fiction, but I believe that the author, Deborah Ellis, did a lot of research on how women live in Afghanistan.
Parvana is young enough that she is allowed to go with him into the marketplace.
Parvanas father is arrested by the Taliban, and the family starts to suffer from his absence.
This is a great story, and I loved it from beginning to end!
در سرزمین افغانستان بی سواد زیاد است و کسی که نامه بخواند و جواب نامه بنویسد خودش یک شغل است...اما یک روز طالبان می ریزند به خانه ی آن ها و پدرش را به جرم این که در انگلستان تحصیل کرده است می برند.
پدر او را هم مثل خیلی از مردان افغان دیگر طالبان سربه نیست کرده است...بعد از مدتی معاش خانواده به گردن پروانه می افتد.
I have wanted to read this book since middle school and finally decided to cheack it out after seeing a trailer for the movie. Parvana is a young girl living in Afganistan during the Taliban regime. After her father is arrested and sent to prison, Parvana must dress and live as a boy in order to provide for her family. I loved Parvana and her family and I plan on reading the rest of the series really soon.
My middle school students responded so strongly to my booktalk about this book, that the library and the local bookstores ran out, and many went on to read the sequel. However, do not be quick to label this as purely young adult fiction. As an adult, I was changed and moved by Parvana and her family, and this novel has stuck with me vividly for 12 years.
I am not any different from those readers.
Through this journey, I have met beautiful writers and their heartbreaking stories.
Deborah Ellis is not different than them.I have discovered the Breadwinner while watching movie trailers on youtube and the animation was spectacular as well as the gist of story shown in the trailer.
So, I searched the book finding out the movie is a book adaptation and fly through it ....
It's short, easy, lightly written but very heavy on emotional thirst of the heart.Currently flying through the second book of the series and already having a feeling that this series is gonna sit near my heart for long time.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
5.5 starsStrong storyline, excellent characterisation, gripping prose - and worst of all.....it's true. These things did happen, are happening; it's real. The story is a story but someone like these characters exists. Tragic. Horrific. We in the West are so spoiled and lucky.Read this - it's worth the short amount of time it will take you. It's no YA book, it's for everyone. And the women out there with no voices deserve to have us at least contemplate what their lives are like.
Parvana by Deborah EllisIt was a re-read and a quick one at that but every word on every page was so perfectly put.
I can't even write out all of the things that are running through my head.
Tragedy after tragedy.
Hope and disappointment.
A happy moment followed by days and weeks of depression.
Men being punished for having an education and books in their possession.It's an eye-opening book, and reading it a bit older than I was the first time, I found that I understood more than when I did when I was 12.
I will most definitely read it again in the future.
Parvana is a great book! The book is very interesting... It doesn't only explain how Parvana is feeling, but it also describes how other girls in Afghanistan survive with the Taliban in control. Some girls in Afghanistan are scared to go outside, I would be too, but Parvana is brave to go outside to get food for her family. At the end Parvana, goes back to see her family which is sad and happy at the same time... I really LOVED this book and I can't wait to read "Parvana's Journey!"
boring.
However,this particular novella sheds light in the Taliban rule in Afghanistan and tells the story of an 11 years old girl,Parvana.
The family is forced to move into a one room apartment and trap their lives under the veils of burqa while only Parvana can go outside with his old and lame father to help him earn his meagre income.
Parvana must do something to feed her family and in the process she pretends to become a boy.
The world becomes new in the newly found boy's eyes but Parvana has still a long way to go to survive in a place where no one is safe and anything can happen.What can I say about the book?
وبينما أنا خارج من القصباء إذ دخلت مكتبة هناك، استقبلتني فتاة صغيرة رقيقة، عرضت عليَّ منشورات دار روايات، قالت لي: «دعك من هذا الرف، فهو مخصص لروايات الخيال العلمي»..
اشتريت كتاباً أو كتابين، وهممت بالخروج عندما عرضت علي الفتاة هذا الكتاب..«المُعيلة..
رواية رائعة، ستعجبك»الحق يقال أنني لم أتوقع أن تعجبني، لكنني أخذتها مجاملة لها.الرواية جميلة جدا، تحكي مأساة من مآسي الشعب الأفغاني، مع تسليط الضوء على المرأة هناك.الترجمة ـ سأكون صريحاً كعادتي ـ ليست جميلة جدا، لكنها ليست بهذا السوء..
ليست جذابة كثيراً، لكنها ليست منفرة..
يغفر للمترجمة اختيارها الجميل للرواية، فالرواية تستحق بالفعل أن تُقرأ.لن أقول أن نهاية الرواية سيئة، لكنني توقعت الأفضل.
This is one of the best books I have ever read.
All The ideas in the book have logical supporting evidence, The characters are very realistic due to their activities and appearance.
I would recommend this book to each and every student in the world (Even the bullies).
I think when someone reads this book their thought about Afghanistan and Afghan people must change.
This book was just so realistic and so pure that it took my breath away.
I could literally feel the characters' feelings, sometimes I used to get in trouble for being grumpy after reading the book.
The book tells you about Parvana, a little Afghan girl and her mother, who try to make a living. The mother waits or Jamil, Parvana's elder brother, to visit them. He has to come and visit them soon. He has to.My first introduction to Afghanistan when I was on my first year after primary school. I remember we have collected milk to send to Afghan children at the time. Incidentally, it was my first introduction to Nantes too.
A quiet tale of heroic courage set in Afghanistan, ‘The Breadwinner’ is a charming tale that speaks of the horrors of war with a warm dignity.
I have read quite a few books on war, but I don’t think I have read many written for a child.
Parvana’s voice is lyrical and affecting, and as I read certain chapters of the book, I was moved by how the things we take for granted are often missed in life elsewhere.
There is this passage where Parvana is able to take her sister, Nooria, outside.
Her sister sits there, warming herself in the sun, and says she had forgotten how good that feels.
Waiting to read part 2!
Finally, she looked at her big sister Nooria....Instead of turning her back, she took the money from her sister’s hand.” This quote shows that even though Parvana was scared and did not want to go out, she took the money for the food and left for the market.
Parvana ends up cutting her hair and goes into the market for days long work and earns her family more money.
Another theme of human rights seen in this novel is to never turn your back on something and to keep going at rough times.
This book was assigned to my son, who is in the 6th grade. Because he struggles with reading, I have made it a habit to read the same books that he is reading for school.And I am so glad.Because I might not have had any other reason to discover this very compelling story.It was a fast read and one that gave me particular insights into life under the Taliban regime. I am looking forward to many great discussions with my son as he and his classmates make their way through it.
I think Parvana was a very good book. Deborah Ellis keeps action in the story, while still developing the character of Parvana. The writing flows smoothly and was very enjoyable. I liked the whole book, but it gets very exciting in chapters fourteen and fifteen. It has a good ending, but it makes the reader want to know more about Parvana, and what happens to her.
Edit July 2018: Saw the movie, which is on Netflix. Just as beautiful and bittersweet as the book. I highly recommend bothOriginal review, Jan 2018: A bittersweet and touching story about life in Afghanistan under Taliban rule for a young girl named Parvana and her family.
3 ⭐️
This book was amazing. I had heard nothing about it before hand.Really good eye opener to another world and the difficulties it faces every day.I loved Mrs Weera.
In the book ‘The bread Winner’, The author writes about a girl who has many troubles in her life and is stripped of many of her rights. This girls name is Parvana. Parvana is in a family of 6, her mother, father, older sister, younger sister, a little brother only 2 years old and herself who is 10. She lives in a city in Afghanistan called Kabul, and because there is a war going on, her house had been bombed several times and she had become poor. The final house setting that they end up in (the
When Parvana thinks it can’t get any worse, her father is taken away by the Taliban.
The Taliban were killing people on the streets without mercy and Parvana is afraid it will happen to her family so she traveled to find them, with her father.
In this novel, the author makes it relate to human rights by showing several times that the Taliban had taken away the rights of the people.
This is bad because it takes away many lives and can kill families in situations like Parvana’s.
I think this because the author clearly shows that the people in Kabul are being treated unfair by the Taliban.
The author uses the story of a young girl to present the difficulties of life, the responsibilities and the lack of rights that people, and especially women and girls had during that time.
Knowing that the events that happened in the book are based upon real stories helps to imagine and visualize life in Afghanistan at that time.
In my opinion, the book is very effective because after reading it, I understood the difficulties and the harshness of life in Afghanistan, as well as the responsibilities of young kids.Word Count: 608
Although I am lucky enough to have never been in a situation where I have not had human rights, this book helped show me what it is like.
She looked at Maryam whose cheeks were already beginning to look hollow.” As you can see from this quote, Parvana was scared herself but she knew what the right thing to do was so she was brave and went out and got the food for her family.
Anyone who likes reading about real world problems and human rights issues will enjoy this book.
If you want to see a world where human rights have been stripped I highly recommend this book.
Read this when I was younger one of my fave books.It was turned into a movie last year, and got a best animation nom!!!I really NEED to see it.
I really liked this book and I think it will be a great eye opener for students.
The book starts off with 11-year-old Parvanna and her background as a little girl living in Taliban controlled Afghanistan and the struggles she and other girls and women faced.
When her father is captured and taken away by the Taliban her family have no way to provide since women were not allowed to work or go to school or even go outside.
This book will definitely open the eyes of many students.
As a result Parvana dressed like a boy and worked to earn money.
Her family was well educated and her father read letters for people even in the markets.
Her father arrested there ware nobody to give them money and feed them.
That is why she dressed like a boy and went out to work.
I recommend this book to every girl to read it, because it is really worth everybody's time.
This book taught me so many things about Afghanistan's life and how do its people suffer everyday.
I liked the ending of this book because it is an open ending.
