https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14948.A_Writer_s_Diary
The vulnerability shown in these diaries bespeaks of a woman aware of her writing prowess but also mindful of her limitations, something one might not expect to see in the diaries of her male contemporaries.As years pass and the entries get closer to the onset of WWII, the collapse of Woolf’s world seems to match her increasing mental frailty.
Woolf’s hunger to seize meaning through writing wanes and a lulling indifference takes hold of her former urgency.Where to draw the line between the woman and the writer?
اما خب، درباره ی نوشته‌ هایم چه احساسی دارم؟ - این کتاب یعنی «ساعت‌ها»، اگر عنوانش همین باشد؟ داستایوسکی گفت: آدم باید از احساسات عمیق بنویسد.
آیا «ساعت‌ها»1 را با احساسات عمیق می‌نویسم؟ البته بخش‌های مربوط به دیوانگی برایم بسیار دشوار است، و باعث می‌شود که در ذهنم چنان تراوشات ناخوشایندی پیدا شود، که به سختی می‌توانم ادامه ی نوشتن آن را در هفته‌ های آینده مجسم کنم.
آیا توان ابراز واقعیت حقیقی را دارم؟ یا این‌که درباره ی خودم می‌نویسم؟ ممکن است به پرسش‌ها، ولو به نحوی که تحسین‌آمیز نباشد، پاسخ دهم، ولی این هیجان، همچنان برجای می‌ماند.
Published by Leonard Woolf in 1953, A Writer's Diary compiles literary extracts from Virginia Woolf's full diary: the short collection's entries feature the writer's plans for her own books; her reactions to other writers' works; character sketches and other exercises; and philosophical musings about literature and society.
Even at her most informal, Virginia wrote thoughtful and brilliant prose, and Leonard included only the best parts of the many volumes of his wife's diary.
The hyper-mediated character of Leonard's editing to some extent mythologizes Virginia as a flawless writer, obscuring certain facets of her character that appear clearly in the full diary, but it also successfully introduces members of a vast audience to the personal writings of one of the twentieth century's greatest English novelists/essayists.
scritch scratch scritch scratch dash scritch scratch scritch scratch semi-colon scritch scratch scritch scratch inkblot the trusty nib flounders a moment then wades through the puddle of ink and on to the end of the lineto the end of the pageto the end of that year’s diary and though it flounders sometimes along the waythe trusty nib keeps on scratching through the diariesuntil half-way though the last it flounders finally_______________________________Now for The Longer Review - and apologies in advance.Reading a diary is like being in a room with someone who thinks they are alone.
A Writer's Diary starts in 1918 when Woolf’s second novel, Night and Day was about to be published, and it covers the most important years of her writing life.
As such, this volume is an ideal book to read if you are fascinated by Woolf's creative process, if you are a writer looking for inspiration, or if you are interested in Woolf's diaries, but want a taste of her writing before you make the commitment to read the more complete published editions of her diaries (which I plan to read through this summer).
Woolf struggled to find a rhythm to her writing and reading that would sustain her through the very difficult periods when she had just completed a long work, and when she was waiting to learn what its reception would be among friends and critics alike.
It gives both this review and my dream of writing for a living an air of antagonism, watch your step/mince your words or be misunderstood severely.Or that could be me thinking too much.But see here, though, that's what this whole work is all about.
It is everything to do with how a question of how I write put by a unwitting bystander is going to set me off on a complete and utter rhapsodizing on the power of literature in every facet of life.
You see, I'm thinking furiously about Reading and Writing.
A Writer's Diary, unlike Woolf's fiction–beautiful though, is an easy book to read.
The book is aptly titled; it is primarily about words, mind, books, artists, writing, and how these myriad things at once possess and liberate a sensitive soul like hers.'There are a few things, among many other, that particularly make me stop and reflect to know her better.
In one of her entries, she writes about a dying person, but her way of seeing gives a peep into her own fears of what lays ahead– what it all comes to in the end.
My copy of A Writer's Diary—I tried to post a photo, but Goodreads just couldn't deal with whatever it was I had to offer—has a forest of little tags poking out from the side. All the passages I've marked. As a writer, I move between despair and joy on a daily basis. A good day of writing leaves me scoured clean and refilled with peace;  There is some ebb and flow of the tide of life which accounts for it; though what produces either ebb or flow I'm not sure. but the stress of rejection  and  of
The way to rock oneself back into writing is this.
I remarked to another writer what an inspiration this book is to me, what comfort I have found in Woolf's own struggles and doubts.
She reminded me how things ended for Woolf.
Instead of being haunted by Woolf's end, I think of Mary Oliver's poem, "The Summer Day" Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?
Virginia Woolf passed like a cloud on the waves.
But her words have become moments upon which we all stand, strengthened, made taller by the foundation of her genius.
A separate collection forming a narrative around her relationship to her own work, the process she developed or was encumbered upon her through natural organic entreaties, the people she associated with including writers, painters, her conflicting relationship with the outside world as seen through the eyes of her artistic realm, scenes of that outside world and its landscapes described in the beauty of words painted, the limitations of a mental instability and physical maladies, and what she read-an influential part of her daily existence.
One reviewer, she admits, describes her style as ‘so fluent and fluid that it runs through the mind like water’ – which is the closest I can come to a description of how her prose feels to me.But when I read her non-fiction, well, I’m both in awe and a little bit in love.
The list of examples of the latter is endless, but here are a few to savour:Life piles up so fast that I have no time to write out the equally fast rising mound of reflections (…)(…) the creative power which bubbles so pleasantly in beginning a new book quiets down after a time, and one goes on more steadily.
در آخرین جملهی کتاب، ویرجینیا میخواهد شام بپزد. ماهی هداک و سوسیس. بیست روز پیش از خودکشیاش. در حالی که برای روزها و ماههای آیندهاش برنامه ریخته. گاهی انرژی دارد و گاهی بیحوصله است. درست است که خودکشی با بعضیها هست؟بی آنکه پای ویژگی مشترکی وسط باشد، ویرجینیا وولف من را یاد ویوین مایر میانداخت. شاید برای آنکه هر دو دروننگری خاصی داشتهاند و شاید هم بیدلیل. ویرجینیا در سراسر یادداشتهایش دارد با کتابهایش دستوپنجه نرم میکند. اول اشتیاق نوشتنشان را دارد و بعد انگار با آنها میجنگد، جنگی برای شکل دادن ب
در آخرین جمله‌ی کتاب، ویرجینیا می‌خواهد شام بپزد.
گاهی انرژی دارد و گاهی بی‌حوصله است.
درست است که خودکشی با بعضی‌ها هست؟بی آن‌که پای ویژگی مشترکی وسط باشد، ویرجینیا وولف من را یاد ویوین مایر می‌انداخت.
شاید برای آن‌که هر دو درون‌نگری خاصی داشته‌اند و شاید هم بی‌دلیل.
ویرجینیا در سراسر یاددا‌شت‌هایش دارد با کتاب‌هایش دست‌وپنجه نرم می‌کند.
اول اشتیاق نوشتن‌شان را دارد و بعد انگار با آن‌ها می‌جنگد، جنگی برای شکل دادن به جملات و رام کردن کلمات.
در آخرین جمله از کتاب، پیش از آن‌که ویرجینیا شام بپزد، من از تمام شدن کتاب، غمگینم.

يکي از دشوارترين و مجردترين پاره از اثر درست همين است که با آن روبرويم.
بايد به ترسيم يک خانه خالي بپردازم، بي وجود هيچ شخصيتي از هيچ کسي، و گذشت زمان، و همه کور و فاقد هر ويژگي، بي‌وجود هيچ چيزي که بتوان در آن چنگ انداخت؛ خوب، با شتاب مي‌نويسم، و تا چشم به هم بزني دوصفحة تمام سياه کرده‌ام.
وقتي يک کمي از آن را مي‌خوانم، به نظرم مي‌رسد انگار خيلي هم زنده و پر تپش از کار درآمده است؛ فقط يک کمي بايد فشرده‌ترش کرد؛ ديگر هيچ چيزي لازم ندارد.
اين يکي ساختگي نيست؛ واقعيت محض است.
She regularly reviewed books for the Times Literary Supplement, and was a regular contributor to some of the most respected and influential literary publications in both England and the United States of America.In short, Virginia Woolf was a writer who did not turn to words as a hobby, or as a helpful panacea for times of need.
Human nature fascinated her, its inward complexity as well as its outward glow, and her entire life was devoted to the expression of such vibrant universes.A writer’s diary was originally published in 1954 by Leonard Woolf, Virginia’s lifelong husband and companion – someone who, in her own words, “kept her steady”, and whose opinions she deemed invaluable.
A Writer’s Diary has sat by my bed for a good few months now, at times (during the sections on To the Lighthouse, The Waves, The Years) leaping into the foreground of my thoughts, but mostly providing a fallback when I wanted to snatch a quick paragraph or two of something that wouldn’t get its hooks in me.
And most recently The Waves, which I’ve put on hold after 50 pages and may have to start again when I feel like diving in, but which the diary intimates I may like best, for Woolf’s having bent her mind and will to it with such force, in the full flush of confidence, before the torture of The Years, with a sense of both its unique limitations and its power.
Che mente straordinaria, non trovo altre parole!
this isn't exactly prying. leonard woolf presents a very distilled version of her mind. for the public, for her readers and fans, with a clear focus on anything literary, her criticisms, fears, disappointments, perpetual feelings of failure: all in relation to her writing. but, as with all her autobiographical works, there is the impending date of doom at the end of March, 1941.

If you would like to try reading her formidable full-scale diary, there has long been a five-volume paperback set entitled The Diary of Virginia Woolf Volumes 1-5: 1918-1941 (Penguin, 1982) edited by Anne Oliver Bell; vaguely, I recalled coming across the set in the Asia Books Branches in Bangkok and only browsed some pages during my college years since I had rarely known her and never read her works.For instance:Monday, October 2nd (1933) It's October now; and we have to go to Hastings Conference to morrow and Wednesday, to Vita, then back to London.
هوش بالا وقتی با جزئینگری زنانه ترکیب میشه تبدیل به یه تجربهی جذاب و صد البته ویرانگر میشه. ویرانگرتر از هوش مردانه. ظرافت طبع ویرجینیا وولف رو میشه تو لابهلای صفحات این کتاب دید. یادداشتهای وولف آیرونیوارانه! از سال 1918 (سال جنگ بزرگ) تا 1941 (میانههای جنگ عالمگیر دوم) رو شامل میشه.همهی جذابیت این کتاب برمیگرده به دید زدن حالات روحی یه نویسنده توی یه گسترهی زمانی بیست و چند ساله. وولف اوایل کتاب بسیار حساس هست و بی اعتماد به نفس. دونه دونهی نقدهایی که روی کارهاش می نویسند روش تاثیر میگذاره. ام
ظرافت طبع ویرجینیا وولف رو میشه تو لابه‌لای صفحات این کتاب دید.
از سال 1918 (سال جنگ بزرگ) تا 1941 (میانه‌های جنگ عالم‌گیر دوم) رو شامل میشه.همه‌ی جذابیت این کتاب برمی‌گرده به دید زدن حالات روحی یه نویسنده توی یه گستره‌ی زمانی بیست و چند ساله.
توی همین کتاب هم می‌بینیم که وولف موقع نوشتن خیزاب‌ها (که ظاهرا بهترین کتابش هست) خودش هم از نظر روحی عالی و توی اوج هست و بعد از همین رمان هست که آروم آروم باز هم اعتماد به نفس این بانوی بزرگ تحلیل میره تا جنگ شروع بشه.
اما در مورد خیزاب‌ها برمی‌گرده و میگه: این یه شاهکاره.
Full of Virginia Woolf's typical incredible insights, also a really interesting look at the books she was both reading and writing, her process as a writer, and her reaction to the reactions her books received.
Guarda per l’ultima volta tutto ciò che è bello Ho in programma un'estate woolfiana; trovo che i tempi siano maturi per l'esplorazione di una scrittrice che ho tanto amato in passato e che poi ho perso per strada. Faccio ritorno nei suoi luoghi col cuore gonfio, ritrovando le cose esattamente come le lasciai, un po' impolverate ma bellissime. Questo diario, che ha rappresentato a lungo l’unico disponibile per i lettori, è in realtà un bel lavoro di taglia e cuci; sul retro della lettera di suic
Le parti sociali, per la maggior parte, i passaggi della Virginia svagata (o meglio: "quando sono sparsa e varia e gregaria”, come scrive ella stessa nell’agosto del 1922), sono stati espunti.
Questi diari non vanno letti nell'ottica della fine, ma come il percorso di formazione tortuoso e accidentato di una delle più grandi scrittrici del secolo scorso e non solo.
La luce improvvisa illumina angoli remoti della sua mente contorta, fa riemergere vecchi ricordi, odori e dolori; il suo problema più grande è sempre stato lo stile: quale adottare per tradurre in parole le complesse sinestesie che sono il pilastro dei suoi lavori maggiori?
خاطرات پیش رفتن کتابهاش، نقدهایی که ازشون میشد و حسهای مختلفش نسبت به اتفاقها و موضوعات مختلف. توی سختگیریهاش نسبت به نوشتن و درونگراییهاش خودم رو دیدم و از اینکه آخرین نوشتهش رو ۴روز قبل از خودکشیش نوشته بود بسیار غمگین شدم. دفترخاطرات آدمها اگرچه همهی بخشهای شخصیتی اونها رو نشون نمیده بسیار مفیده واسه شناختن گوشههایی از دیدگاههاشون.
خاطرات پیش رفتن کتاب‌هاش، نقدهایی که ازشون می‌شد و حس‌های مختلفش نسبت به اتفاق‌ها و موضوعات مختلف. توی سخت‌گیری‌هاش نسبت به نوشتن و درون‌گرایی‌هاش خودم رو دیدم و از اینکه آخرین نوشته‌ش رو ۴روز قبل از خودکشیش نوشته بود بسیار غمگین شدم. دفترخاطرات آدمها اگرچه همه‌ی بخش‌های شخصیتی اون‌ها رو نشون نمیده بسیار مفیده واسه شناختن گوشه‌هایی از دیدگاه‌هاشون.
Ah, Virginia. I feel that I know you, although I know that I do not. I like reading about your struggles and realizing just how much you leave out (this book is excerpts from a much longer diary). I like that you are human, worried, fallible. I want to jump though the pages of time to reassure you that your writing, your reputation and your beautiful works of art will survive. I love you Virginia. How very presumptuous of me.
Diario de una escritora, publicado por vez primera en 1953, reúne aquellas entradas de los diarios de Virginia Woolf escritos entre 1915 y 1941 que se ocupan de la literatura: el proceso creativo, la preocupación constante por la crítica, la dificultad para poder conjugar la vida cotidiana y la escritura, las lecturas que adora y las que le provocan cierto rechazo… La selección la realizó el marido de Virginia, Leonard Woolf, tal como informa él mismo en el prólogo.
I highly recommend this book for writers...especially those who think that they might be struggling in vain.
After all, Woolf is now listed as one of the greats and this book is packed with information on her process, her concerns, her self-doubts, and her triumphs.
It's inspiring.The reader does have to keep in mind that this is a diary, and therefore doesn't have a particular 'design'.
The emotional ups and downs can be tiring (especially regarding her concern about critical opinion).
But when one remembers that a diary is a spot for a person to 'unload,' so to speak, Woolf's emotional roller coaster is completely forgiveable.
Rende un'idea esatta - non potrebbe essere altrimenti - del calibro della scrittrice e della donna; della sua sensibilità paradossale; del travaglio di ogni creazione; del sollievo di ogni vittoria; dell'umanità di ogni piccola soddisfazione.
E' stato per me fondamentale comprendere, finalmente, l'essenza di una scrittrice di cui non avevo mai capito bene i lavori.
Whether read or forgotten, they freeze acts, and thoughts, and revitalize them at the same time, at each request.
This diary was a nice read, very stimulating.
Reading this diary was crucial for me to understand the proper essence of a writer I had never really understood till now.

There are few writers who write their diaries in a fashion of self-talking.
While reading A Writer's Diary, one has to keep in mind that diaries does not have a specific design by which they are written.
It's diary, it can be tedious, and full of blissful thoughts at the same time.
Virginia Woolf's A WRITER'S DIARY, is a latter case.
For her writing, it shows a clear account of how critical she was of her own words.
I recommend this book, to every reader, and every writer.
I don't really know much about the relationship between Leonard and Virginia Woolf, but this book was lovingly edited. Excerpted from her unabridged diaries, Leonard Woolf culled the bits that he thought to be most about writing--the process, exercises, etc. These entries detail her exhaustive writing and revision process, as well as the relationship between her own reading and writing. She often sets herself schedules and tasks here, which were interesting to read. Reading this book has re-invigorated my writing self.
On April 12 1919, she wrote...Moll Flanders, which I finished yesterday in accordance with my time sheet...Not everyone likes to be so regimented in their work, but any of my students who have suggested to me that they can’t get a routine going will know I do recommend using tick lists, time sheets, work diaries and pie charts to get motivated – I would certainly recommend reading A Writer’s Diary as a wonderful way to inspire your own writing, and one of my OCA students, Helen Steadman, has been doing just that...
I had very strongly the feeling as the light went out of some vast obeisance; something kneeling down and suddenly raised up when the colours came.
