https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/674321.The_Screwtape_Letters
That said, The Screwtape Letters, an intense rumination on good and evil, as told through the letters of one demon to another, is a work I feel everyone should read, if to do nothing but understand the true nature of evil.
I'll admit, I picked up the book because I thought a tale told by a demon would be kind of cool...
sexy in a dark fun kind of way.
It did what the best books always do; it expanded my understanding of the world around me.
After reading and processing his work, I know why.
This is a small book with a fun premise: a high-ranking demon (Screwtape) writes his novice nephew (Wormwood) with advice on corrupting a human soul in order to ensure the man's damnation.I suppose I pictured something more colorful in terms of scenery and back-and-forth imbroglio; this is simply a series of 31 letters that the elder demon composes, each commencing with "My Dear Wormwood".
Wormwood is continually fouling things up and losing his grasp on his assigned human to “the Enemy”, aka God. The concept, as Lewis explains in his preface, is that hell is not so much a series of red-tinted caves populated by pitchfork-wielding demons, but rather a staid bureaucracy in which quotas must be met and souls won.
On the other hand, The Lord Foulgrin's Letters gives the reader a frightful feeling and sounds more like a discussion between two evil beings, but has a lot less intelligent thinking.
The latter may sometimes go over the edge and extent the importance of a tempter's ability too much; the first begins with saying 'The devil does not like to be laugh at' * and the author cautions about the two opposite attitudes (both wrong) that one can take towards the dark spirits: giving them too much attention or ignoring their world (Screwtape himself admits in a letter how disturbing are the people that josh them).
The story centers on a man’s life who, in the unfolding of the story, becomes a Christian, falls in love with a woman, and fights in WW2.
Lewis covers topics in a larger context, for the big philosophies of the world, threats to the truths of the Church at that time.
The books requires a cerebral, philosophical mindset, and one who reads must keep opposites in mind, especially Christians.
I believe Tolkien’s Christianity plays a major part in the power of his world-famous trilogy, the depth and passion and emotion of it that sweeps you away to another reality, that you want so much to be real, and stay there forever.
Though we have no words from Wormwood himself (or any direct references regarding the new Christian convert that Wormwood is assigned to deter), the reader can easily surmise his situation based on Screwtape’s references.While C.S. Lewis is writing from a fictional perspective (devils going to tempting school and writing letters to one another is his own invention, of course), the insights he gives are profound.
Wirthlin of the Quorum of the Twelve said that even though the Lord’s teachings are plain and direct, “We are still at risk of getting sidetracked.
However, there were plenty of bits I did appreciate.
(And a few ideas particular to the author's personal culture.) I found it interesting that it was written during WWII and does reference "the European War." On humor, and its potential as a means to destroy shame:"If a man simply lets others pay for him, he is 'mean'; if he boasts of it in a jocular manner and twits his fellows with having been scored off, he is no longer 'mean' but a comical fellow....
Cruelty is shameful--unless the cruel man can represent it as a practical joke."On [a prediction of social media]:"All humans...
Brilliant! This will be a reread for sure. Very unique point of view. I read this in preparation to seeing it on stage which should be interesting. Note to self: I think it's time for that reread. This and capote's holiday collection possible rereads for December 2016.
After the Narnia series, it was the first or second Lewis book I read (Mere Christianity was the other).
Since then I've read most of Lewis' writing.
Like much of Lewis' work, this is speculative.
Lewis' work, if written today, would be deemed heretical!
I'd say whether you think demons are literal or not, we all face temptations and struggles.
Lewis' book is challenging because it reminds us we all face these struggles and have to keep fighting to grow and mature and leave our old selves behind.I'm not sure if this one will creep back into my top ten.
Once again, I enjoyed this book. Some of the language reduced the rating from five stars to four. But that's only because I am an American reading this in 2018.
I started reading this book on my way back from Christmas vacation.
I was reading it on the plane which was filled with people leaving after the New Hampshire primaries.
The lady next to me was a high-up leader in the Democratic party.
I think when she saw that I was reading this book she didn't even ask if I was a Democrat.
I love the experiences that come when I put my book down to talk to people.
It was a little drier than the other books I've read this year but it is a classic.
3.5 stars - good  I struggled with this book. Two Goodreads reviews I read before and after reading it both said - in different ways - that you need to read this book if you identify as Christian. Well, I identify as Christian, though I'm not religious, but this book flew mostly over my head. And it was depressing, but more on that later...Thanks to this review, I learned that I did understand it enough to take away at least two important messages: 1. Thinking for yourself and doing things in y
Two Goodreads reviews I read before and after reading it both said - in different ways - that you need to read this book if you identify as Christian.
Not out of any perverse or malicious intent, but just because I suffer from Major Depressive Disorder to the point where I am disabled by it (well, by the MDD and three severe anxiety disorders).Parts of this book had me reading the sections and telling myself "Jenni, you are not going to Hell because you're depressed." I try to live a good life within my little bubble - a Christian life, if you will -but I rarely leave the house.
I just finished reading this witty and profound classic for the umpteenth time.
Its centerpiece appears to be an attack on the English system of education.
I was surprised to read, in a note at the beginning, that his real target was the American system of education.
If I could be so bold as to summarize what I think is the main message, it would be this: Modern Western education attempts to prove how democratic it is by dragging everyone down to the same mediocre level.
"The democracies were surprised lately when they found that Russia had got ahead of them in science," Screwtape tells younger devils acidly in this essay from the Sputnik era.
I’ve enjoyed both of these literary styles on occasion, but for some reason this one simply didn’t grab me.
Therefore, I think I would have done better with a similar book, covering the same type of message, that was written in a much more straightforward fashion.As for what I did glean from the pages, I understood that Screwtape is a very exacting uncle who doesn’t suffer Wormwood’s failures to tempt his human to the dark side lightly.
A very interesting (but theoretical) book about how Satan tries to draw Christians away from their faith and the very common tricks that he could use.Recommended 13+ for mentions of wars, romance, and sins in general.
An astute, relevant and humorous piece of fiction, which helps us to consider the spiritual dimension of our lives. Whilst it was first published in the 1940s, the observations about human nature have a timeless quality and therefore still feel very contemporary. Well worth reading.
This short novel takes the form of letters written from Uncle Screwtape to his nephew Wormwood, advising him on how best to drag his "patient's" soul to hell.This book is nothing more or less than Christian propaganda; this is not necessarily a criticism, but, for the record, I prefer my literary declarations of religious faith more rooted in human life, certainly less in your face (think Evelyn Waugh or John Updike).
However, none of this Romanticism changes the fact that this book is condescending as Christian children's story, and repetitive as adult reading.
I'm being humble', and almost immediately pride - pride at his own humility - will appear.""You should always try to make the patient abandon the people or food or books he really likes in favour of the 'best' people, the 'right' food, the 'important' books." --- I think it is important that we know ourselves.In the following quote, "the troughs" he refers to are the trials and hard times that we face in mortality.
If you think of the amount of spirits that were cast out in the pre-existence - one third - it makes sense that there could be one of them assigned to each of us on the earth at any given time, tempting us.
The letters give advice to Wormwood on how to persuade or tempt his human subject away from G-d and towards their side.Its an interesting fantasy piece, but mostly its a sort of satirical study of human nature, especially as regards to religion, vices and virtues.
Found myself constantly trying to reverse every piece of advice that Screwtape gives in order to see what CS Lewis himself truly believes.
Anyhow, Lewis writes in better than I do, so I'll give up trying to explain it, probably falls under spoilers anyway.I did find myself being somewhat frustrated by what I consider to be outdated offensive prejudices in his work.
Brilliant.It's amazing how the book is written as letters from Satan's POV, and all the while you could feel God's presence written in every line.
Lewis is trying to say.but, anyway, it's the kind of book that would make you close it every 15 minutes just to call your friend and tell her (for the 328th time) how brilliant it is.the mistake i made when i read this book is that i read it too fast, and since it's full of philosophies it's really tiring if you finish it quickly.
maybe it would be really good if i read, say, 3 letters a day.there are, of course, flaws in this book.

Joss Ackland narrated this audiobook and...wow. PERFECTION. I have always loved this book and I re-read it every couple years. It never gets old, and I notice something new every time I re-read. Perhaps this is because each time I re-read this glorious work of spiritual fiction, my own spirit is searching for something different every time. I look forward to continuing my journey with The Screwtape Letters over the years.
This book scared me. I knew of course about Satan and demons and all, but in an intellectual sort of way. I knew they were real, and I knew they were bad and I never really thought about it. But this book changed my perception completely. The demons are personal and they are out to get you. The Christian's war against them is not a passive one. Also, I saw a theater production with Brent Harris and he signed my ticket. It was pretty neat.
A series of letters from one demon to another - clever, insightful, and at times satirically humorous. One of C.S. Lewis' brightest works, though not the deepest or most beautiful.
Review here.
It uses the term "democracy." This isn't to say Lewis was against democracy, but I think he was pointing out the pitfalls.
Luckily I think I can appreciate each for what it is even if I read them at the same time, but this should be fun.Now to go divvy up the chapters into something close to equal percentage portions...
So, please don't let the month and a half reading time make you think I didn't like these, for I did.
Rather entertaining and quite short, this book is a series of missives from a devil to his nephew concerning the soul of the nephew's "patient." The nephew, whose name is Wormwood, tries to beguile a young man to sin and eternal damnation.
Throughout the letters, we find how devils get us to sin and other such things.
We know several things about "the patient." He is male, lives with his mother, falls back into faith after being out for a while, lives in England during the outbreak of WWII, enjoys reading, likes tea, and other such trifles.
I just don't believe in a personal God.
I found this book full of insights about the foibles of human nature and how they can either add to a person's faith or destroy it.
I found the backdrop of an uncle teaching his nephew how to be a better temptor of souls a most delightful and creative way to share these insights.
Even though this is a relatively short book, I took my time reading it because each letter was so thought provoking I wanted to take time to digest its contents.
The best kind of books are those that make us take a deeper look at our own lives.
A well-presented and very plausible account of the strategies demons use to separate us from loving God with all our hearts, minds, and souls, and with loving our neighbors as ourselves. I won’t say it’s a quick read because of all the times it makes you stop and think, but it’s definitely a worthwhile read. And maybe even a refresher if it’s been a while for you!
This book was especially insightful and convicting. It speaks to so many of us Christians today, young or old. I really had no idea the relativity of this book and the issues covered until I read it. Great classic from one of the best authors, C.S. Lewis.
I listened to an audio version that was brilliantly done. This is such a unique, poignant book. I've always wanted to read it, and it will stick with me with the depth of thought in it.
