https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337408.The_Case_of_the_Sleepwalker_s_Niece
A young woman came to Perry Mason for a consultation about a fairly complicated problem.
His business partner in one of his business venture decided Peter Kent committed a fraud with the company's patent.
And so the famous criminal defense attorney found himself in the middle of two things of his profession he hated most: a divorce case and a patent case.
However it has been a while since I read the previous book and I missed the unbeatable criminal defense attorney, so I gave it 4 stars.
And If that weren't bad enough, Kent has taken to sleepwalking, wandering through the house in the dead of night carrying a carving knife.Thankfully, he's got Perry Mason on the job to alleviate all these problems.
No task is ever too great for Paul; if Perry needs six hundred people tailed at once, Paul always has enough operatives to get the job done, and there's no piece of vital information that he can't miraculously produce almost in an instant.Sure enough, Mason is no sooner on the case than someone in the extended Kent household turns up stabbed to death, and the bloody carving knife that did the deed is found under Kent's pillow.
I'm reading the Perry Mason mysteries in their original order and this 1936 novel was his 8th PM book (eight written in three years!) and the first one to disappoint me. There was a lack of action and the mystery and characters lacked spark. This IS the first Perry Mason mystery where he kisses Della Street in his office. Previously, their flirty banter had remained platonic.
****.When you start a Gardner Perry Mason adventure, the setting is key.
In this book, the subject of sleepwalking is worked to death.
Originally, a new client enters Mason’s office and explains that he has a problem: he walks in his sleep.
This was a three-star book up until the last scene during the trial section.
We get a real feel for Perry Mason’s skill in front of a jury.
When he works for a client, he really works for him.
The edition I read included a table of players at the start of the book.
I can't explain why I feel that way, but maybe it's just that the plot seemed pretty complicated and the whole sleepwalking theme seemed far-fetched.
And the dialog is pretty clunky, as usual.Perry's relationship with Della Street remains ambiguous.
But hey, it's 1936 and Gardner was describing life more or less the way it probably was.Anyway, not his best work so far, but I am enjoying working through the series.
To add to the fun, it is inscribed "To Arthur Haley from E and G, Xmas 1937." I guess I read this at the right time of year.
A man is killed in the middle of the night. A bloody knife is found under the pillow of a known sleepwalker. Perry Mason has his hands full as he tries to defend his climate who might be the victim of a frame job.

This was the first of the Gardner books that I wasn't crazy about.
Seems to me that Gardner had the ending more in focus than building the rest of the book in a coherent manner.
Also the characters weren't as sharp as in other Gardner books.
There are a number of twists that could leave a reader confused as to who is who.The idea of the conclusion is sharp, but wonder if it could've been better presented for a dramatic touch.Still this book is better than most and certainly better than the bulk of books written today.
Though, I'd point to other Mason stories than this.Bottom line: I don't recommend this book.
A wife who is a professional gold-digger, a business partner who wants to cheat him out of the whole company, and a niece who apparently cares too much about her uncle........and Mason puts all his trust in his clients.We meet Hamilton Burger and Lt.Holcomb in this book....who will become series regulars gradually.
Pretty good mystery about a sleepwalker. Main thing I started to notice reading this book is the subtle sexism and racism of these books. Now I don't think Gardner was particularly trying to be racist and sexist, but it's there.
Very very interesting case! Loved the chemistry between Perry and Della. A proper confusing case.
Mystic interwoven with mystery, thats what this story is. Read it carefully and the account everyone gives of themselves and then keep them in mind when you start getting facts. Thats the way you'll be able to see who's lying and who's the real murderer. And yes, the title, its interesting why he named the story that, considering she's neither victim, nor Mason's client. It's a good deduction on part of Mason.Good mystery. nJoy it!
Poor EditingI probably will not read any more Perry Mason books from Anazon. They are so poorly edited that it makes reading very unenjoyable. Words are left out. Periods and capital letters are inserted randomly in the middle of words and sentences. Names are changed and words are misspelled. All of this makes it seem like reading something written by second grader. Not for me.
Great story, lousy kindle editionI liked the story fine, but whoever transcribed it did a terrible job. Words are misspelled and missing so often that it can be challenging to follow the plot.
Enjoyable, easy and fast read. The characters work well and it is a classic whodunit from days gone by.
Was kinda disappointed with this one. The solution deals with the uncle and neice both being sleepwalkers. The courtroom action is the best part of this novel
I was wrong about who done it. That was a lot of new info in the last few pages, but it fit in with the rest of the story beautifully.
The case opens when a young woman comes to see Mason about her rich uncle Peter Kent, who is a sleep walker.
The niece wants Perry to get medical treatment for her uncle, and to protect him from the scheming wife Doris, who has already defrauded and ruined one ex-husband.
A showdown is arranged, and Perry spends the night in Kent's house after meeting there a large cast of characters:Peter Kent, the sleepwalker.Edna Hammer, the niece of Peter Kent.
Kent is soon arrested.There are very good courtroom scenes with Hamilton Burger.
And If that weren't bad enough, Kent has taken to sleepwalking, wandering through the house in the dead of night carrying a carving knife.Thankfully, he's got Perry Mason on the job to alleviate all these problems.
No task is ever too great for Paul; if Perry needs six hundred people tailed at once, Paul always has enough operatives to get the job done, and there's no piece of vital information that he can't miraculously produce almost in an instant.Sure enough, Mason is no sooner on the case than someone in the extended Kent household turns up stabbed to death, and the bloody carving knife that did the deed is found under Kent's pillow.
His wife is a professional and beautiful gold-digger, his business partner is not as honest as he seemed to be, and he picked up a dangerous habit of sleepwalking with a knife.
When the inevitable murder takes place, Mason is right there in the mansion, but it won't help him much in getting to the bottom of it.
Can a sleepwalker be convicted of first degree murder even if (s)he doesn't remember a thing?
Getting dangerously close to the final pages of the book, I was little worried, because I still didn't have even a real suspect.
#8 in the Perry Mason series. Enjoyable series entry featuring the famous lawyer, but it's nothing special.Perry Mason is urged by the beautiful niece of Peter B. Kent to help him avoid the avaricious intents of his ex-wife and his business partner. Kent's habit of sleepwalking, carrying a carving knife, may help his ex-wife have him committed in her care. Kent's plan to marry again is thwarted when his half- brother is stabbed to death and the bloody knife is found under Kent's pillow.
Very serviceable Perry Mason entry, like most of the early novels. Perry's still a tad more hard-boiled than he was to become, and his clients are still trying to pull the wool over his eyes. He actually makes it to trial in this one, which has been a rarity, as he usually pulls down the prosecution's case during preliminary discovery sessions. Well written, though the characters are broadly drawn as always.
Love reading mysteries during the winter months. This was a very good, old school mystery. It was the first Perry Mason mystery I have ever read. He was much different from the old TV show I used to watch. (He kissed his secretary Della and told a client to shut up!) Loved the mystery and did not figure it out. Enjoyed it!
In this Perry Mason mystery, a bloody knife is found under the pillow of a known sleepwalker following the murder of a man. Mason has to pull out the stops to protect his client. This is a good old fashioned murder mystery without the sex and profanity of more "modern" works and is one you can let your children read.
Wonderfully convoluted, as always, though I must admit to suspecting at least part of the final outcome.I am definitely enjoying reading these in strict order of production, and watching the various central characters firm themselves into being, so to speak. Mason and Della Street actually lip-locked for a bit, and then exchanged favorite high school cheers. O.o Alrighty then!
One of the few Perry Mason's that I didn't go for. Seems to be disorganized. The key clue was kind of interesting, but the rest seemed just a mish-mash of...I can't even call them red herrings, just dumb stuff.
Good
This mystery has a lot of twist and turns to it. I liked it and I liked the characters in this book very much.
Still being surprised!!
An early Perry Mason novel. Didn't see that one coming!....a good, quick read that had a left you not knowing where the story was going.
