https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99610.The_Best_Laid_Plans
Srpski prevod nema materijalne i logičke greške koje je imao original... :) Šeldon je bio već u dubokoj starosti kad je pisao ovaj roman... Istraživanja za knjige mu je radio neki asistent koji se nije baš proslavio... a kako se radnja dešava na našim prostorima, i kako je Šeldon na Balkanu omiljen autor nisam mogla da dopustim da razočara svoje verne čitaoce... :)
He spent a lot of space giving background information on minor characters and it seemed like he was just filling up space.
Then at the end he gives some hastily compiled explanation for a character that was actually very central to the story.
It just wasn't acceptable.Now, for the third missing star.
I was given the impression that Leslie was basically the female protagonist here, and Sheldon continues to give this impression by following her story.
And no other likable character that I really cared about either.The end just worsened everything.
Wait, what?
2 stars?Yes I know, I know.
I couldn't believe it myself.
I mean I HEART Sydney Sheldon but this book was annoying.
I saw the plot twist coming, there was absolutely no action until three fourths of the book and I thought the characters were CREEPY!but I didn't give up hope.
At the end I just wanted to stare into nothingness, wait, then I have to read the book again, it had NOTHING!
So at the end of the book I felt bad and cheated.AND that's what made me feel better!
I thought the theme of the novel was about revenge - "Hell hath no fury than a woman scorned" and all that.
The heroine turned into the villain of the story and a new heroine was introduced.
Leslie Stewart on the other hand, doesn't get her much deserved revenge and also loses out afterwards.This book smacks so much of sexism - women get treated like doormats or sex objects or victimized that I should have given it just 1 star.
But then, I'm judging the book by the whole story and not just by some of the ideas embedded in it.
Love and betrayal linked in the world of politics.Written by the master of deceit, Sidney Sheldon <3Sidney Sheldon's "The Best Laid Plans" intrigues from the very beginning and compels the reader to continue reading until the last page (Message to the future readers of Sheldon's novels: Forget about peeing! It ain't going to happen until you finish this in just one sit)OSM SHELDON.
Added 4/25/15. First published in 1997.Well written. Excellent plot development. Written with amazing clarity, despite the large number of characters and the many shifts in time and place. Easy to read. A page-turner!The plot concerns the machinations of politicians for power and the role of the media. There's even some romance, such as it is.
Not Sheldon's worst, but certainly not his best. There's a little too much going on here that felt irrelevant. Nonetheless, a page-turning read, ideal for the beach.
Η περιγραφή του βιβλίου είναι παραπλανητική. Ξεκινάμε με ηρωίδα τη Λέσλι και καταλήγουμε με τη Ντάνα... Αυτό δε σημαίνει ότι δεν το ευχαριστήθηκα. Γρήγορο θρίλερ με πολύύύ παρασκήνιο, πολιτικό και δημοσιογραφικό, οι σκηνές εκτυλίσσονται σα ταινία μπροστά σου, με ανατροπές που δεν περιμένεις.(view spoiler)[Ο κατά λάθος δολοφόνος είναι ο Πίτερ Τάγκερ, η Λέσλι δεν τα κατάφερε να ρίξει τον Όλιβερ, η Ντάνα μεταδίδει ζωντανό ρεπορτάζ που αποκαλύπτει την αλήθεια. (hide spoiler)]
What I like about Sidney Sheldon books is that the female protagonist always (well most of the time) looks back in their life and think about how and what went wrong, that led them to this state of destruction.
Isn't that fun to see a character in complete puzzlement and to find yourself perplexed too thinking and asking the questions as them?What I don't like about Sidney Sheldon books is that when the female protagonist is getting all the joy in the world possible, sometimes more than that, are never into thinking oh what did they do right to have this state of bliss.
There are millions of actions which take place between rags to riches stories in order to obtain the power and Sydney Sheldon does that beautifully keeping in mind the important aspects of dirty and political games happen in real life. The author always creates an everlasting impression of his female protagonists in the reader's mind. The book is quite fast-paced nowhere to get bored and if you are on a reading hiatus then pick this book and done with the intriguing adventure of acquiring power within a day.
A wore out political assistant stops just before a decision - yet is compelled to run a sad crusade in transit out.
He makes an arrangement with a dried up old Scot, Angus McLintock- - a designing educator who will do anything, anything, to abstain from instructing English to engineers- - to give his name a chance to remain in the race.
No compelling reason to crusade, sure to lose, et cetera.
At that point an awesome outrage overwhelms his rival, and sadly, Angus is chosen.
He chooses to perceive what great a fair M.P. who couldn't care less about being re-chosen can do in Parliament.
The Best Laid Plans by Sidney Sheldon - Wonderful suspense.I am a big fan for Sidney Sheldon's book.
After so many years, I picked up his book with so many expectations.
This book dint fail me.
Got more thrilled than expected.
The plot centers on two characters : Oliver Russell and Leslie Stewart.
Oliver promising to Leslie that he will marry her.
But because of Senator Todd Davis's greedy words(marry my daughter and I will make you President), Oliver marrying Jan (Todd's daughter) for political power.
Leslie feel betrayed and vows to take revenge.Such an interesting story and 'cant-put-it-down" type of book.
Another delicious revenge/love/backstabbing story. Leslie's character's ending is so appropriate and I was surprised to find out who was responsible for Chloe's death.
ενθουσιαστηκα!αλλο ενα βιβλιο του σελντον ελαβε τελος!αυτη τη φορα αλλαζουμε θεμα και τη σκυταλη θα 
Entretenido para pasar el rato, pero tiene libros mucho mejores. Final muy precipitado.
Yep, you got that right, I read one book a day, nothing difficult with this one as Mr. Sheldon’s works are quite “light and entertaining”.How can I start with “The Best Laid plans”?
Before I picked it up this morning, I only remember that I have read it once and I thought it was awesome, but that was me – 15 years ago perhaps and I’m sure that I have changed a lot since then, including the little segment in my brain that produces something called “opinion”.The thing is Sheldon books are always entertaining, I guess it’s formulae numero uno if you want to sell your books and he’s quite damn good at it, but then the reality hits you hard in the face as there are only few pages left, you begin to realise that you’ve been cheated and that the author should have devised some sort of “twistier” (is there such word?) plot to make everyone’s happy.
They were in love, engaged to be married in a few days until Oliver got a call from his former girlfriend, Senator father.Todd, promised him money and power but he has to marry his daughter.
Oliver was sure he would not do it but the Senator's word echoed in his mind and left Leslie to be humiliated.
Stop obsessing and move one, revenge would only make you more miserable.On the other note, I loved the twist, I really did not see that coming because everything really points towards Oliver plus I developed a dislike on him, (just on the first part of the novel) how could anyone not?
Lumayan lama saya berniat ingin membaca karya Sidney Sheldon, bahkan sudah membeli beberapa bukunya.
Lumayan, karena pemberitaannya mampu mengguncang pemerintahan Oliver Russel.Awalnya saya berpikir tokoh utama cerita berada di ‘tangan’ Leslie dan Oliver, ternyata ada sosok Dana Evans, seorang wartawati yang tiba-tiba hadir dan menjadi pembongkar aib bejat tokoh pemerintahan terkemuka.
Dan taraaa… Dana menjadi tokoh utama dengan akhir cerita yang membahagiakan.
Menariknya terletak pada akhir cerita dendam Leslie, sosok misterius si maniak seks, dan cara Dana mengungkap si pembunuh, benar-benar di luar dugaan, Selain itu, konflik Timur Tengah, intrik politik, dan kondisi perang Bosnia Herzegovina menjadi bagian-bagian yang membuat cerita lebih bervariasi.
Tapi prinsip itu sukses gagal [??] diterapkan saat membaca buku ini.
Namun ternyata Oliver Russel justru meninggalkannya untuk menikah dengan anak anggota senat yang bisa membuatnya sukses di kancah politik hingga menduduki Gedung Putih.Leslie pun sakit hati dan berusaha membalas dendam.
huuh (serasa kurang penting meski akhirnya dia yang memecahkan kasus pembunuhan-pembunuhan yang terjadi).Sudah lama gak baca karya sidney sheldon, dan saya teringat kembali kenapa meyukai karya-karyanya...
bukunya membuka wawasan intrik politik dan fenomena berkuasanya media massa....
Gaya bahasanya ringan, meski menurut saya terlalu banyak tokoh yang diceritakan...
tapi lumayan buat mengingatkan kenapa saya suka dengan novel-novel misteri karya-karya sidney sheldon (meski yang udah dibaca jg gak banyak...
Sheldon is an well-known international bestseller writer and in this book he just wrote like a cheap newborn writer.
He spend writing more than 50 pages on a minor character!
when I was reading the last final pages,then I discovered that particular minor character has not a slightest impact on the story.
Then why the hell Sheldon filled the pages just for nothing?
At the end of the book,Sheldon make the protagonist to a antagonist.
He wrote pages and pages on leslie.
After finishing the book, I don't find any plans,let alone best plans!
This book literally has a rocket like velocity.
You can't drop the book until it's finish.
Leslie Stewart merencanakan balas dendam kepada Oliver yag mengkhianati cintanya untuk kedudukan sebagai orang no.1 di dunia.
Leslie berusaha sekuat tenaga untuk membuktikan bahwa Oliver bersalah, namun ternya ialah yang salah.Dana Evans mengungkapkan bahwa pelakunya adalah Peter Tager.Satu hal yang cukup mengganggu dalam novel ini adalah siapakah tokoh utama sebenarnya?
Di awal cerita Leslie digambarkan sebagai sosok utama yang disakiti hatinya, sehingga para pembaca mungkin akan merasa iba padanya, namun di akhir cerita ia berakhir dengan tragis akibat dendam kesumatnya dan Dana Evans seolah-olah mengambil peran utama yang akhirnya dapat menikmati happy ending.
saya berharap Oliver memang bersalah, dan Leslie akhirnya menang.
as it usually is with Sheldon, I finished the book in one day!!
mind blowing as usual...Oliver Russell kind of reminds me of Obama; charming, well-meaning and absolutely useless!the part about the Arab king and the peace treaty is my least favorite of course...I found it stupid which is a shame cuz Sheldon doesn't do stupid.I cried when Kamel cried in the van.
And I almost fell on the floor laughing about the senator's speech concerning Israel..Does Sheldon really believe that America is holding back on "defending" Israel because they wanna keep selling weapons?!!I mean I know the book is fiction, but COME ON!!
Read it in a handful visits to the toilet at my parents' house. This is the first book by Sheldon I've completed... and probably the last. The writing technique is basic and unskilled. The characters are flat and uninteresting. An example: the omniscient narrator tells us the main character, Leslie Stewart, is very intelligent. He repeats it about three times over the first pages instead of showing it via the character's actions of AT LEAST making other characters say it. The ending is very predictable.
I liked this story until its less than fulfilling ending that left things unresolved for me. 6 of 10 stars
What a gripping story!! u can see Mr.sheldon's trademark twists and turns!! didnt feel boring through out the book!!
Talking about revenge, Leslie Stewart's scheme is by no means as titillating as Noelle Page's (The Other Side of Midnight) or Tracy Whitney's (If Tomorrow Comes), nor it is as sophisticated and hence, satisfying.
In the end, the revenge plot is left hanging as Stewart saw herself becoming the "laughing stock for failing to double check her facts", but where to from here?
Talking about character development, Leslie Stewart seems confusing enough and she did a lot of unnecessary things.
We could have done away with the whole character of Dana Evans and still have had the same revenge storyline intact.
'Boring'...
If I have to describe this book with one word,that's the one I choose..sidney Sheldon clearly wrote this when he was bored out of his mind...
in all the other books of his I've read, the protogonist always accomplish what they're set out to..but in this one,he made Leslie Stewart a laughing stock in the end..how does one expect to give the lead role to another character in the middle of the damn story...
Moreover the whole book rides on the simple twist at the end (no spoilers) ..but other than that the story is utterly boring...
2 stars...
It was little boring in the middle, too much of unwanted details, but the climax was good.
Todd donates money, influence, and religious rakishly eye-patched campaign manager Peter Tager, who brings conservative voters, reputation of family stability, skill, confidential access to private apartments, and supplies bottles of clear liquid Ecstasy drug for Oliver's groupies.
When Dana learns about "live feed" broadcasts, "She had no idea that one day it was going to save her life" p129.
(view spoiler)[ Dana befriends armless orphan Kemal, feeds dozens of other homeless Serb-Croat children, arranges their escape to Paris, and is almost shot as a spy till elected Oliver, Leslie's empire, and others, cooperate to free her.
There are so many sub plots that the main plot sometimes gets lost.
Although some of the subplots do tie-in with the main plot, a majority of it is left hanging and unused.
The protagonists are actually given very little importance, especially the female protagonist who remains absent for a major part of the book.
The ending is rather unusual and indeed unfair and unjust to the female protagonist.
With all the promise that the jacket excerpt showed, this book is highly disappointing and below expectations.
The only saving grace is the fast paced narrative, which ensures that the book is not boring and doesn't drag.
