https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/905459.Wolf_Solent
I think it was Christie Malakite who criticized him for this very trait I ached for (Wolf's mind is a two-way mirror reflecting inwards and they will all beat on it), but I also think she wouldn't be able to help her smile if she saw it.
I think of a heart from the sad face to float on Wolf's pond like an avenging ghost on his peace of mind.
It was like not feeling alone.When Wolf is giving up the moment for a hope, off with his head, his true-love Christie exists for me.
I've heard Powys compared to Dostoevsky, but I don't see it, even though Dostoevsky was one of Powys' favorite authors and inspirations (he even wrote a book-length study of him).
I suppose the Dostoevsky parallels could stem from their mutual concerns for "soul" issues and for marginal obsessive characters, but Powys expresses himself much more through landscape and the natural world while Dostoevsky is much more purely human-based, expressing himself mainly through dialogue and the verbal ticks and body twitches of his characters.
"It seemed as though all the religions in the world were nothing but so many creaking and splashing barges, whereon the souls of men ferried themselves over those lakes of primal silence, disturbing the swaying water-plants that grew there and driving away shy water fowl."Second reading of this.
This second time through follows a reading of pretty much all of the rest of his work.
That's what I am, a vegetable animal wrapped in a mental cloud, and with the will-power to project this cloud into the consciousness of others."or  "It always gave Wolf a peculiar thrill thus to tighten his grip upon his stick, thus to wrap himself more closely in his faded overcoat.
But it's more like the other way around: we had to already have figured certain things out, and spent a certain amount of time both good and bad with them, before we could come up with even a general idea of what their 'philosophy' was.
These events have taken away his mythology which is a good and bad thing, in my mind, as I think it will mean he can finally be part of the community instead of set apart.
And, though it was into the night that she now poured those liquid notes, the tone of their drawn-out music was a tone full of the peculiar feeling of one hour above all the hours of night and day. It was the tone of the hour just before dawn, the tone of that life which is not sound, but only withheld breath, the breath of cold buds not yet green, of earth-bound bulbs not yet loosed from their sheaths, the tone of the flight of swallows across chilly seas as yet far off from the warm, pebbled
When his mother arrives on the scene, all the major parts of this convoluted play have been cast.Solent is a self-absorbed character, as is the protagonist of Weymouth Sands, the other novel of Powys that I've read.
In fact, it was Solent's irreducibly effusive passion for the natural world that allowed me to look past some of his more irksome qualities.It's difficult for me to rate this novel, as I often have trouble rating longer works.
i believe originally he was a poet. this book is lyrical without drawing attention to its lyricism while winding out an enjoyable tale. this is a read made for a quiet night, to slowly become lost in a well told story without modernism and post modern adornments and strategies. i recommend it to others, and to myself as a reminder to reread.

Absentmindedness is quaint to a point, after a while, people can become annoyed when your distracted manner is no longer entertaining as you are causing inconvenience — one day you have your head in the clouds, the next day it changes to having your head firmly stuck up your ass (there’s a time and place for everything, you see.) Wolf’s walking seems directionless, yet he follows his nose like a canine; examining his internal world and then becoming suddenly enamored by the world outside of himself — the verdant curve of a hill, the muddy stillness of a pond, the blue of the sky, and the golden meadow brimming with buttercups; body and soul, dreams and realities, within and without, life and death, good and evil — his thoughts often veering over the edge into the supernatural.
With this, I have done Powys an injustice, for Wolf Solent, whose deliciously confused consciousness we inhabit as readers, must be one of the most unique protagonists in all of literature (and I have met quite a few, from the puerile Oskar Matzerath to the ribald Leopold Bloom).Wolf is a strange one.
So is "Wolf Solent." This, however, is the beauty of the book, what makes it so very captivating; Powys' practical prank of placing someone like Wolf in the serene rolling hills of Somerset, England.
Powys was a truly masterful writer to be able to pull this off, not only just, but wholly, brilliantly, believably, rendering "Wolf Solent" one of the best novels I've come upon in a long time.
While written in the third person, the entire book is through Wolf's consciousness so it is more like a first person narrative.
There are entire chapters containing nothing more than what is going on in his complex but always interesting mind.The book also shows a tremendous leap in quality from his earlier novels on the editing side, perhaps because Phyllis Plater was involved with his writing for the first time.
Many of the types of cringeworthy sentences or paragraphs found in his earlier work are gone.On a personal note, this was the book that got me started on JC Powys as I felt a strong affinity, however uncomfortable, with Wolf.
I believe I have read somewhere that Powy's had published several books that were received well enough, but that he had had some mystical epiphany himself around middle age and started producing works of much higher artistic accomplishment.
This may be one of those books that you have to stick with a little, but once Wolf is in the village and things get going it seems to get a hold of you with (to me) endlessly fascinating storylines.
Wolf Solent was published in 1929, when Powys was 57 and still making a part-time living from his mobile lecture show.
All these, he says, "have to be joined together, have to be forced into one another, have to be proved dependent upon each other, while all solid entities have to dissolve, if they are to outlast their momentary appearance, into atmosphere." The novel, on the surface, is a fairly straightforward story of a native son’s return, along the lines of Hardy’s Return of the Native.
You can’t go home again sums up the novel in a nutshell; but a nutshell is far too small for Powys.
Abandon all hope of liking this book if you are bored by Terrence Malick's movies or Gustav Mahler's symphonies.
However if you dig incredibly atmospheric, earthy, psychological/mythical prose where nothing much happens besides endless cups of tea and much, much, much internal dithering by Wolf Solent then this book could be your ...
cup of tea.I would gather Powys is a "writer's writer".
I did enjoy the first part of the book much more than the middle parts when I did kinda lose my patience and nerve when I saw I still had hundreds of pages left and still not much was happening.
Powys is a personal favourite. I discovered him via a friend and have continued liking him ever since. This is XIXth-XXth century fiction, at the time of epic story-reading. Powys is about impossibilities and the gentleness of things. I even find blundering humour revealed in his search for grand sentience. Powys is a redeemer of lost and cast-away feelings. Not a real philosopher but a priest in his own creed.
Alright I'm not quite done with this, but I think that's not going to matter. Circumstances have drawn out the reading for longer than it deserved.This book is a real mess. And a most lovely one. I even enjoy imagining the many perplexed, modern psyches wandering through it---I mean readers, not the story's characters.
My favorite book.
Some powerful druidic shit but a bit diarrheic
Cowper Powys is not afraid to make his main character, Wolf Solent, at times unlikable, frustrating, self-absorbed, the butt of jokes, but ultimately someone I was pulling for despite (or probably because of) his flaws.
What is remarkable about the book is that Cowper Powys shows the transformation of a young man in all its contradictory minutiae.
It worn me out, wore thin, then filled me up again.Wolf Solent--a poetic, mystical, idealistic young man comes to a small town in Dorset, is torn between two loves, discovers Beautiful Truths and Hard Truths, and must find a way to reconcile the contrary currents of life.
ERC Book Club, December 2000 selection   Definitely a book about sensations ... a very profound, transcendental piece of work. The last 10-15 pages were very dense, like wading through mud ... many complex thoughts raised questions for me such as: Is it possible to go on living once the soul (Solents mythology) has died? Wolf Solent found a way to ... endure or forget. Makes you wonder about fate and how or even if we are able to control our own destiny. I knew the author must have been influen
ERC Book Club, December 2000 selection
Definitely a book about sensations ...
a very profound, transcendental piece of work.
The last 10-15 pages were very dense, like wading through mud ...
many complex thoughts raised questions for me such as: Is it possible to go on living once the soul (Solents mythology) has died?
Wolf Solent found a way to ...
endure or forget.
Makes you wonder about fate and how or even if we are able to control our own destiny.
I knew the author must have been influenced by Wordsworth because of the similar allusions to nature and the reference to the poet is even made towards the end!
The description of natural phenomena, etc.can be quite transporting at times, but the lack of anyone's inner existence other than that of the main charcter, combined with the endless concatenation of 'mythology'- 'walking stick'- 'Lenty Pond'- 'Gerda'- 'Christie'- 'Mother'- repeat, left this reader feeling unmoved by the sheer lack of emotional momentum. The only interior monologue in the novel is that of Wolf Solent, and he chews the same cud over and over. This Dorset stuff isn't for me-- take me back to dear old Wessex. Wolf Somnolent.
Wolf Solent is absolutely fantastical. The protagonist would never claim to be, but he is a mystic. (In other words, John Cowper Powys is a mystic too.) If you're spiritual at all, you'll be fascinated by Powys descriptions of mystical states and situations, and his descriptions in general. This is a deeper book, though. Beach reading it's not, but if you want something meaty I heartily recommend it.
Additionally, Powys possesses rich comedy and sarcasm, particularly when describing the fuzziness of Wolf’s thoughts, “Wolf’s wits, moving now, in spite of the fumes of smoke and alcohol, with restored clarity, achieved a momentous orientation of many obscure matters.” All in all, this is an entertaining read.I will not give away the plot too much.
He is also possessed of a personal philosophy that seems grand to him, but when abstracted at a distance I could not logically reconcile.
A wonderful extract encapsulating this thought is his statement that “The world is not made of bread and honey…nor of the sweet flesh of girls.

An amazingly microscopic novel about an utter drip of a main character. Luckily there are lots of other characters who are also microscopically examined, as well as an English countryside who figures as a main character as well, producing an incredibly rich evocation of a semi-mythic time and place. Too bad Wolf himself didn't drown in the damn pond about halfway through.
Tried this twice and just couldn't get into it.
He appears to be an author out of fashion.
While I can understand in a way - his style is highly descriptive and sometimes elusive - I think I’ve been missing out and can’t wait to read that battered copy!I can’t be doing with book reviews which tell you exactly what happens in the book so I’ll just try and sum up some features of the book.Newspaper articles seem to describe him as a mixture of Hardy, Lawrence and Blake.
Landscape and nature is described in detail, as it would appear that the characters’ fates are bound to where they live.
I don't remember why I didn't choose this book for my paper at the end of the semester.
I chose "The Trial" by Kafka instead, probably because I was on a big Kafka kick at the time, but "The Trial" destroyed meaning on so many levels it was near impossible to write about and I remember, clearly overwhelmed and still lacking the academic jargon/tools to work with Kafka, I threw together something and hoped for the best.
It was probably my favorite of all the books I read in "Concepts of the Modern" even though the pretended to really like "Notes from the Underground" and the other heavy, philosophical things.
I think I'll read it again.An article about Powys: http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2006/...
Broadly speaking, it follows the spiritual life of a man in his 30s as he moves to help a country squire write a scandalous county history, marries a local girl, turns to teaching without any real interest and ends the book with his mighty psychic problems only partially resolved.
The descriptions of the countryside are marvellously evocative, the local society is conjured up convincingly, and Wolf's strange sequences of thoughts and feelings have an eerie power, however unlikely and improbable.
One thing one can say for certain, Wolf is a truly terrible teacher.
Set in an early 20th century England, in the West Country, a man in his mid-30s returns to his rural county after 15 years in London, followed shortly by his domineering mother (whom he seems not to resent).
In constant throes of spiritual crisis, he breaks free enough to fall in love with two women the first week, one of whom he marries, the other he strings along for 600 pages.
This is my second Powys and it is comparable to Maiden Castle in terms of its obsessive sense of place and emotionally volatile (slightly inexplicably so) characters.
A very unusual book, gorgeous on language, light on plot, and deeply concerned with the internal life of the narrator. It is also remarkably funny when introducing its population of eccentrics. As the book's humor declined and the character interactions intensified, however, I found the book somewhat less interesting. Powys is a master at description and internal monologues, but I found the book's dialogue often stilted and its characters reacting in ways I found uncompelling or unrealistic.Still an odd, open-minded, and worthwhile book, with a fascinating world-frame.
