https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/851579.The_Seven_Day_Mental_Diet
Corto , hubiera agradecido mas ejercicios o modelos a seguir.
But I like the idea of trying the "diet" for a week and to dispel all negative thoughts from consuming us.
I think we all allow this to happen from time to time but I'm curious to see if I could go a whole week without this happening one time.
I do think my opinion might be slightly biased bc I have a degree in counseling so this isn't fresh info for me.
To me, that's almost like saying to pretend not to see reality or face the truth.
This is a very short book but still very powerful.In this book Mr. Fox suggests that while you have negative thoughts we spend to far to much time entertaining those thoughts which then translate into actions.
So people who constantly think about how they cannot get ahead results in you staying right where you are.
While it takes practice to control your thoughts you can stop them from bleeding over and causing you to spend extra energy everyday on what you cannot do or cannot have.
Instead turn those negative thoughts around and spend your time on positive thoughts and improve your situation.
Short with a powerful challenge. A must read for those who recognize the power of thought and how hard it is to restructure our thinking.
The central idea of this book is to spend a week consciously attempting to let negative thoughts go as they come up, without dwelling on them, in order to foster the habit of thinking positively.
Good."you must be quite clear that what this scheme calls for is that you shall not entertain, or dwell upon negative things.
It is not the thoughts that come to you that matter, but only such of them as you choose to entertain and dwell upon.
It does not matter what thoughts may come to you provided you do not entertain them.
A quick little self help type book to train yourself to stop thinking negatively.
He suggests that if you think only good and productive thoughts for 7 straight days you can break yourself of the bad habit of thinking negatively.
If you accidentally think of something negative you must start over completely.
Skip a few days and start the "diet" over.
This book reminds me of the Bible verse Phillipians 4:8 " Finally brethren, whatsoever things that are true, whatsoever things that are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things."
Excellent book. Great information! Must read if your looking for help for a strong start in changing your life! I did not check any of the external links so I can't comment on them.
This is an old, freely available pamphlet intersperced with edits and product placement for someone's life coaching service, essentially. A little irritating trying to parse out the good from the bad here. But the original material is solid!
Really nice book i learned alot after reading this and applying this will be more helpful for meLearned alotBehavioural changeSteady growthCalm downThe one week mental diet definitely change me alot . I feel great after reading this
Short but make a great point about detox ourself of negative thoughts
A really short booklet about basically tuning out bs and negativity. Nothing bad to say about it! 👍
Life changerPowerful, clear, simple, and one hell of a challenge. Means the world to me, and a simple cutting Force Through much of the storm in my mind.
Euh, was een miniboekje van 20 minuten.
I liked the ideas, but there were so many grammatical errors that it sometimes made it unclear and difficult to read.
Nothing original. In just a few words: Don't think bad things for 1 week.
Basically a blog post in book format - no new content to me, but I heard about this book from Tony Robbins then from Louise Hay so I took the hint from the Universe and read it! And loved it :)
HelpfulEasy reading and helpful in dealing with life and all the challenges that come daily. I appreciate the tips and questions that were posed to direct my thoughts to see a different perspective.
Try this book for 7 days :)
Tiny book with a powerful challenge:Take 7 days to focus solely on positive thinking by not allowing a single negative thought to dwell in your mind.
CAn read this in about half an hour. Great advice and a great challenge!
Quick and worthy read. Do yourself a favor and read this one right now. Thank you.
This is a great read about the power of focus and positive mindset!
Bend your mind to the right way of thinking.
A short clear description of a way to improve your life by changing your thinking. I feel better just from having read it.
