https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123748.God_s_Bits_of_Wood
‘We know what France represents,’ Bakayoko said, ‘and we respect it. We are in no sense anti-French; but once again, Monsieur le directeur, this is not a question of France or of her people. It is a question of employees and their employer.’ One of the tags I've been using on Tumblr with increasing frequency is 'life is politics is life.' Out of all the ideas the United States has actively worked against the most, this is easily one of the top five, because what I mean by this is not The West W
Decried and belittled and maligned as it is, politics is the power of the people with the necessary levels of effort and will and faith required to face down a system that must always be forced to give in.
But to act so that no man dares to strike you because he knows you speak the truth, to act so that you can no longer be arrested because you are asking for the right to live, to act so that all of this will end, both here and elsewhere: this is what should be in your thoughts.
Incredible book. Highly readable, very gentle in tone. You almost are lulled into not quite feeling the real pain and cost of their months long struggle. Almost. It breaks to the surface, but what I'm most left with is the manner of peace, within the various family groups and communities.It's a great book.
Vividly capturing the 1947-8 Dakar-Niger railway strike, God's Bit of Wood never ceases to shock, to inspire, and to ultimately shed light on an event that truly shaped the importance of the African culture.
Sembene Ousmane weaves a beautiful piece of historical fictions with God's Bits of Wood and teaches the reader to never forget that matters of race, gender, and equality, are all matters that might never go away but we must still always fight for.
In Africa?Hell yes!The novel starts slow, and introduces a gabillion characters, like a later day Dostoevsky, but the slow build up and the endless characters are necessary, since the strike is a complicated story that needs to be told with delicacy and many individuals need to be highlighted to show the collective effort and to bring home the collective AND individual plight (not to mention show us the lives of the people in order to feel their deaths, successes, or failures).The book, as you probably know, is about a strike in French Senegal in 1947-48 against the shitty conditions of the railway.
The beauty of the writing is that the development of the story is so tightly woven into the development of each character, as individuals and groups find unexpected strengths in themselves that lead them to take heroic steps to advance the cause.
We admire and care deeply about all of these characters by the end of the novel.
This is an amazing portrayal of how women can have powerful roles in major events, and end up in different power relationships as a result.
Some are a bit unbelievably wise and heroic, it is true, but overall they are believable and admirable.Such an inspiring and beautifully written book.
At the core of the novel is the labour movement and workers rights, the dynamics of not just the colonial system, but to a lesser extent the capitalist system which, according Ousmane seeks to exploit its workers for the gain of faceless corporations-the workers in the novel are triply exploited for their labour and because of their race and all under the auspices of benevolent colonialism.
Ousmane is able to convincingly  re-create the desperate, yet at the same time social febrile atmosphere engendered by the strike, the sense of common purpose and unity which it brought up.
To nick an idea I picked up from an introduction to War and Peace, this book is an excellent example of an ‘open novel’.
When the curtain closes and the story ends, every story-arc is tied up in a neat little bow, and they all live happily ever after.
Any real event (the Peloponnesian War, for example), starts in medias res.
The start- and end-points are arbitrarily defined.On this spectrum—in-between fable and history—stands the novel.
And I'd put God’s Bits of Wood alongside it in this category.Like Tolstoy, Ousmane has an intuitive sense of history.
Sadly, this book is extremely unsung. It is the African "Grapes of Wrath," in scope, politics, relevance, and in beauty of the prose. Sembene was as brilliant a film director as he was novelist. This books covers not just the events of the strike but the range of people involved, the workers, managers, and their families. Brilliant.
It's like Senegal becomes a person and the cities mentioned different parts contributing to her movement.The stories of the people at first seem subjective however, the more the story proceeds, we come to see how long a thread Sembene is using.
It contributes to the title being meaningful, "God's Bits of Wood", the pieces that make His house.There is no character in the book that will not impact you.
Histories, enmities, intentions, disappointments all woven together, or may I say, built together to build the house in the end we see.The book is another story about a struggle of liberation in An African state from colonialism.
I expected to find this boring, for it to be a chore to finish. 380 pages of quite dense French, on the topic of a railway strike in Senegal in 1948. But it's so wonderfully well written that it's not a chore, even though it's not something you fly through. And the characters! I need to find more books by this author.
Class warfare in Africa. Gives one heart.
Though the author is a man, it also deals extensively with women’s role in society; the book has many prominent female characters, who come into their own during the course of the strike, while the men of their communities are out of work.
As the workers and the community learn to assert their own power, we can already see independence on the horizon.
(It's probably no coincidence that this was published in 1960, the year of Senegal's independence; there is perhaps a bit of national myth-making at play.)At any rate, the translation is good, there are some vivid descriptions, and there’s a sense of place and the ways the strike changes the culture.
Shortly after WW2 the black rail workers on the Niger-Dakar line went on strike for six months.
At the time, it was the longest labor strike in world history.
There are almost 45 characters in the book in three different settings, so the chapters become more like a set of short stories that are interconnected by the overall plot and a handful of selected characters.
I recommend it to anyone who appreciates a good book.
It is a well written account of an actual historical event, The Dakar Railway Strike which took place in October 10, 1947 to March 19, 1948.This book was recommended by my Mom who insisted that I should read it after reading Ngugi wa Thiong'o's Petals of Blood.
Both books highlight workers revolution and share similar plots and main characters, the difference is the volume and flow.
Ngugi's book is also larger in volume.The action takes place in most parts of Senegal but the greatest impact on the strike is in Thies.
I use this with my students to try to teach about West Africa.
I pair it with A Grain of Wheat for an East/West thing.
The structure is much easier for them than A Grain of Wheat, but I'm not going to lie and say it really resonates with them.
I want to bring labor history into the classroom and thought this would be a nice way to do it.
Let's face it, teenagers are not as into labor history as me and mid century French Communist sympathizers, go figure.
The book is set in West Africa in a time of awakening for the African workers of the region. The story follows several strong characters and shows different ways in which they deal with the strike...it is a courageous tale of courageous people. The spirit that moves within this story fills me with hope that suffering creates strength to withstand anything...and eventually welcome celebration. Loss is part of life..A beautiful study of the human spirit of endurance, and hope. Eternal and everlasting hope.
Ousmane, forever the Africana feminist looked at workers strike that men thought they had under control-as always, the women were the ones that produced the final victory. Sembene continue the tradition of voicing exclusionary groups fight for equality as part of a larger social challenge. ultimately, victory is the way we treat our mothers, sisters, daughters. This point is illustrated in all his work: Xaxu, Guel War, Faat Kine...
يُخلّد الكاتب في هذه الرواية التاريخية ذكرى تفاصيل إضراب عمال السكك الحديدية الشهير الذي حصل في السنغال عام ١٩٤٧، يجسد فيها معاناة الأفارقة واستغلالهم المطلق من قبل المحتكر الأجنبي وحليفه الأفريقي الذي يشارك في اضطهاد العمال ليخلق لاحقاً مايسمى "بالاستعمار الجديد." تركز الرواية على دور المرأة الافريقية في النضال ضد الاستعمال -والذي غالباً مايتم تجاهله- ولكنه يصوره كجزء من الوحدة والنضال الجماعي الشعبي الذي يسعى للدفاع عن حقه في حياة كريمة ضد النظام الذي يسحقه.
ولذا فالكاتب لايحمّل الأبيض وحده كل الشرور بل ماجلبه من نظام اقتصادي احتكاري يقتات على ظروف الآخرين البائسة (يتورط فيه كلاً من الأبيض والافريقي النخبة).
As I haven't read nearly enough African literature but have enjoyed everything I have read, I decided to take a proverbial punt.I found out that God's Bits of Wood was written about the 1947-8 Dakar-Niger railway strike, something which I knew nothing about and still know virtually nothing as there isn't very much information available on the Internet.
This book was well written and engaged me right from the first page.
This was especially so because I'd just read So Long a Letter and that particular African lady didn't seem so very enamoured with that custom.Leaving that to one side I really enjoyed reading this.
I read this in translation from French.
I learned a heck of a lot from this book.
It takes place in the fifties when Africa was in the throes of tossing off the yoke of colonialism.
The author was (perhaps still is) a labor organizer and member of the Communist Party.
It follows a number of people as they struggle, die and ultimately succeed in their labor action.
Worth reading for anyone interested in history.
I was excited to read this book which is from the viewpoint of a member of the society that was struggling for independence.

The 1947–8 Dakar-Niger railway strike is known as one of the events that have truly shaped the importance of African culture. God’s Bits of Wood is a fictional piece based on the events that took place in the strike and never ceases to shock, inspire and most importantly, shed light on the events that took place.Each individual battle, success, or death was mentioned in some way, which was sometimes confusing, but necessary in order to see the collective effort of countless families who struggled against the mistreatment and racism by European colonists...Read More...
according tohttp://www.labornotes.org/2013/01/nov...God’s Bits of Wood by Ousmane Sembene, nominated by UE organizer Erin Stalnaker, tells the story of a strike by Senegalese railworkers against their French employers in 1947-48. The novel isn’t just about anti-colonialism—it’s also a nuanced exploration of solidarity, including by women, who eventually become leaders in the strike begun by their men. - See more at: http://www.labornotes.org/2013/01/nov...
An historical novel about the railway workers' strike on the Niger-Dakar Railroad, of the struggles between the railroad workers against their French colonial employers. Showcasing the poverty and oppression of the African workers and their families, the workers realize that they need to unite if they are to successful gain economic and social equality for themselves. This is a really powerful and lyrical work that is both disturbing as it is inspirational.
This writing was fabulous- the style, the vocabulary, the pace of it- all wonderful. Obviously a remarkable book in its original French (I think it was originally written in French), but a wonderful translation, as well. So many interesting threads to discuss- I am looking forward to the book club discussion tonight.
I was recently thinking about Moolaade, a really uplifting and beautiful movie I saw with my Girls Group at my old job. I had no idea that the director (Sembene Ousmane, "father of African cinema") was also a novelist. Exciting!
God's Bits of Wood proves a success in capturing the rich plurality of life in 'French' West Africa; the panorama of a diverse society deftly rendered in vibrant, sometimes opposing colours - a novel where, in one scene, a devoted wife resignedly submits herself to seemingly firm patriarchal codes, but in the very next a group of wives band together to riotously rampage against unjust male oppressors.
لقد تحرك الكاتب بٍحريّة فجاء النسيج الروائي متكاملا ومتفردا، انتقل فيه بسلاسة بين شخوص الرواية في ظل بطولة جماعية استثمرت إمكانيات كل شخصية: من "ابراهيما باكايوكا" قائد الإضراب والمتسلح بالقيم النقابية إلى "الحاج مابيجي" الذي يخون قومه وينحاز للاستعمار، ثم المستعمر متجسدا في شخص الفرنسي "اسنار" وصولا إلى حضور نسوي لافت كمّا وكيفا، ذكاء "ادجيبيدي" وحكمة جدتها "نياكورو"، قوة "مامي صوفي" ووطنية "بندا" ومئات النساء اللواتي سرنا مشينا في مواجهة المستعمر عندما ضعف الرجال..إنه وللأسف اختزال مخل لعمل متميز مزج فيه الكاتب بين الحزن والفكاهة، بين الخصوصية الافريقية وكونية القيم الانسانية، بين أدبيات العمل الفني وبين التزام الكاتب.
3.5/5.While having an interesting subject matter and masterful pacing, this book nonetheless fell short.
Similarly, the book portrayed characters as far too hesitant to engage in violence: the colonial world is defined by pervasive violence; why would colonized subjects who have internalized this violence hesitate to direct or use it, particularly against themselves.?
The text very clearly wanted to portray a specific narrative of awakening national consciousness, one that was less violent or exclusionary than reality.
Also, the text made confused statements about women’s political contributions, namely, that this strike was the first time they happened in West Africa.
God's Bits of Wood, a book portraying the malady that has plagued Africa since time immemorial: workers' strikes.
The book is set in Senegal, revolving around the 1947 Senegal workers' strike.
It is suspenseful, pacy, up to pages 70 or 80, and then my all time reading nemesis - drag - takes over.
There is something that rings in me in all books that I finish reading, this one had it but disappeared along the way, just like the dying of love at first sight spark after the honeymoon phase of a romantic relationship.
