https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22557272-the-girl-on-the-train
"Something bad happened." Are you ready for a faster-paced, creepier Gone Girl?Woah. This is one unsettling little thriller and the best bit about it is that no one can be trusted, including the three female narrators who share the storytelling of this book. I literally read this entire novel in one sitting and I now need to find the words to convince you to go get your hands on it. RIGHT NOW.Between an alcoholic, a liar and a cheat, who can you trust? These are the three women at the centre of
This is one unsettling little thriller and the best bit about it is that no one can be trusted, including the three female narrators who share the storytelling of this book.
Rachel is that girl on the train who takes her mind off her own life by imagining the lives of others.
But then one morning, things are not as they are supposed to be and Rachel sees something that completely shatters the "Jess and Jason" image which exists in her head.Now she is pulled into their lives.
It's about all the little mysteries that exist just outside of what we see on the surface.
I read this book due to the fact that everyone else read it. Yes, mom I would jump off the cliff right behind everyone else. These are some fucked up characters. I think the new trend in books where every one of the characters is an asshole may be the way to go if you are writing a book that you want to take the world by storm with. The thing is...It gets frigging boring. I wanted a bus to hit them all. Repeatedly. May go sorta spoilery:You have Rachel. Rachel is a drunk, she gets on the 8:04 tr
I think the new trend in books where every one of the characters is an asshole may be the way to go if you are writing a book that you want to take the world by storm with.
Rachel is a drunk, she gets on the 8:04 train every morning and then on again in the afternoon on her way home.
Sometimes she can't wait to take a drink before she gets home.She sees "Jess and Jason" everyday.
The writing is not bad in this book, so I'm not giving it the rating for that.
I suppose that tells you just how much I disliked it.This thing is a hot mess, the writing is clumsy, there are things that don't make any sense, the characters are pathetic and the opposite of complex.
The women in this book are either defined by the men they are dating/married to, or by how they feel about being a mother (and by that I mean, do they already have a child, do they want a child, or (view spoiler)[does their character arc end with getting excited about being pregnant (hide spoiler)]?) Bleugh.
And have I mentioned the clumsy writing?

Depressing from start to finish. Most every single character was a hot mess. I have literally no idea why there are so many 5 star ratings. It kind of scares me. If this kind of garbage is what the masses find appealing...I mean..I didn't care at all about the "mystery." It didn't even feel like there was one. It just felt like a tedious glimpse into the messed up lives of people I'd rather not know anything about.
Good read but the ending fell a little flat for me
but it's hard not to be swayed when you read:Within days of my introducing the manuscript in March, people from every department were regularly pulling me aside to testify to how much they loved the read, how they couldn't put it down.
At a recent meeting, a colleague who was twelve pages from the end was secretly reading them under the table because she could not stop.
I watch them every time I goes by on this here trainy-train with my glasses of wine as I ride, and I can just tell that their greatests most happiest couple who ever was…Lots better than the my stupid ole ex.
Seeing them be such a absofantabulous couple rights by where I used to live is the one part of my stupid day I enjoy when I ride this train.Wass that you say?
Sorry about this……..”*****That’s what this book feels like, that you got stuck sitting next to a sloppy drunk who is telling you this story, and maybe you feel a little bad for her even as you’re trying to avoid her spilling her drink on you.
What a huge disappointment. The concept sounded amazing, and it got off to a promising...if slow...start. But it quickly turned into this messy, melodramatic story that was neither surprising, or original. Much like in Gone Girl, there was not a single likable character in the entire book. That wasn't the main problem for me, though. I could see the ending coming from a mile away. Actually more like I figured out who the main villan was within the first 20 pages. Never a ringing endorsement.
I tried to enjoy it!
I swear I did!
The hype told me that I had to!
I wasn't bad, but it wasn't good either.
I never really cared about the story and ALL of the characters were unlikeable.
Sometimes characters are unlikeable in a good way, but not this time.At no point was I excited to be reading this.
Side note added 4/5/2017: Kinda silly how “Girl” is in so many titles lately.
It has to be intentional to ride the coattails of other successful titles.
It started out promising enough, but the writing and the drama got old fast.
There was really only one person who could have done it, and because of that I kept thinking it must be someone else.
It was THAT PERSON.
I started out thinking I had a 4 star book in my hands.
Halfway through I was looking for an excuse to give it 3 stars.
Well I'm in a generous mood (or kind of disappointed in myself for buying into the hype) and 2 stars is what I'm giving it.
A weak 2 stars.
These aspects annoyed me to no end but the absolute worst thing about Rachel and the two other female narrators was how pathetic they were.
Even those women on the side-lines of the plot are only defined by their relationships to men.For instance, Rachel’s mother; she is only mentioned two or three times and the one time she actually gets a few lines is when she explains how she’s not able to help her daughter at the moment because she has a new “friend” and she doesn’t want to scare him off like that!
She wanted to show the dark side of domestic life – just like Gone Girl did.
Pfffiou... I feel like I've been holding my breath for 325 pages and only now finally exhaled.
Now, divorced and unemployed as a result of her drinking, growing larger and pastier by the day, Rachel rides the commuter train to London on weekday mornings, pretending she is still working, pretending she still has a life.
She imagines lives for them, nursing this fantasy for quite some time, until she learns that the woman has vanished, and the game is afoot.The notion for the story occurred to Hawkins on her regular train ride in London some years back.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: It's about escapism, lack, and how plausible suggestion autocorrects figments into memory and strangers into circles.
A couple who just by watching them every day- gives her hope that happiness exists...Rachel is stuck clinging to the days she had with her ex-husband Tom- who left because of her drinking...who left her for a younger woman.
A baby that Rachel could never give him....The only relief from her dreary, pointless, life is "Jess and Jason"...(not their real names of course)...but very real for her all the same.
Then one day Rachel witnesses something that doesn't seem right...something that involves a woman named Megan- the woman who she thought of as "Jess".
”Yesterday---sensible, clearheaded, right-thinking---I decided I must accept that my part in this story was over. But my better angels lost again, defeated by drink, by the person I am when I drink. Drunk Rachel sees no consequences, she is either excessively expansive and optimistic or wrapped up in hate. She has no past, no future. She exists purely in the moment. Drunk Rachel...lies.” There are certainly worse ways to spend your day than riding an S stock train into London.Rachel rides the tr
Drunk Rachel sees no consequences, she is either excessively expansive and optimistic or wrapped up in hate.
There are certainly worse ways to spend your day than riding an S stock train into London.Rachel rides the train into London every day to keep up the pretense that she has a job.
We can look at other people and think their lives are wonderful.
What we have to remind ourselves of is that, though people may seem to be leading perfect lives, everybody has problems.
This is the main reason I read the book as we had planned this outing for months and then I read the book just before the film came out.As you prolly already know I abhored the book so I was grotesquely curious about the film.First though I want to give the rating of my lovely galpals when I polled them afterwards over omelettes !!Gal One : Book 4 stars Film 3.5 starsGal Two: Book 4 stars Film 3 starsGal Three: Book 3 stars Film 4 starsGal Four: Book 3 stars Film 3 starsBF - refused to read the book Film 3 starsJaidee Book 0.5 star Film 1.5 stars (in comparison Gone Girl Book 2.5 stars Film 3 stars)The film was seriously lacking, terrible dialogue, fairly poor acting (with a few exceptions), mostly very dull when it was not ridiculous.What I liked - Emily Blunt gave a 3 star decent performance There was some really cool art and some beautiful brief cinematographySaving Grace: Officer Riley played by Allison Janney was awesome.
This was a perfectly decent, well-crafted thriller, which I happened not to like very much, for reasons that have little to do with its craft or its quality.
This sometimes happens, and it doesn't mean that others won't enjoy it.
I'm getting tired of these vaguely infantilizing titles that refer to mature women as "girls" (although, to be honest, none of the female characters seemed at all mature to me).
And although I have no problem enjoying books with unsympathetic characters, I found the women in this book not only unsympathetic, but really rather dull, relying on the "damaged woman" trope for interest, rather than investing the characters with anything more tangible.
All aboard!!!  TRUST NO ONE  I have lost control over everything, even the places in my head. What? “Trust No One”? Why is that sign on the railroad of this review? Is this a “The X-Files” story? Oh, no, but certainly the motto of that iconic TV series is a good advice to anyone who dares to aboard this train of thought in this very particular journey to the minds of three women that you may think that they are quite different, but......maybe not......or maybe they do......mmh......remember abo
I’m your friendly reviewer, surely you can trust me......bwa-ha-ha-ha!!!Okay, enough misleading malevolent mirth...
In this story you will have three voices in your head...Rachel: An alcoholic woman who failed in marriage.Megan: A pretentious woman who succeed in cheating.Anna: A married woman who who succeed in pretention.All of them are unlikely protagonists, hardly role models, sinners paying for their own faults, broken dolls in the middle of a railroad where fate is the train.They did their mistakes, but your own mistake can be to trust them...
I believe that it’s one of the moments where you can trust me more...
i can't believe it SOLD A SINGLE COPY.
so there.)this is just...a straight up bad book on every level.
it'd be funny if it didn't make EVERY SECOND OF THIS BOOK, EVERY PAGE, EVERY WORD, A FRESH HELL TO FIGHT THROUGH IN ORDER TO GET TO THE NEXT ONE, WHICH IS, GUESS WHAT, ALSO HELL.this would be maybe O.K. or at least survivable if this book was scary or thrilling or spooky or intriguing at all, but guess what, IT ISN'T.
the entertainment potential is almost overwhelming.honestly all i really want from a thriller = some thrills.
and the reveal of this makes it even worse.bottom line: straight up one of the worst books i've ever read.
are there people who like this book?
هو قطار عاديسائقته مدمنة كحولياتذات خيال واسعتعاني الفراغولنر بالمختصر حكاية ريتشلالبطلة الرئيسية(view spoiler)[صباحا---عانت الكثير من الأخفاقات في حياتها الزوجية التي كانت تتمني أن تكون كاملة..جميلةلم تنجح في الأنجاب..فتبنت الكحولياتملّ منها زوجهاخانهاتزوجعاشت مع صديقتهاتم فصلها من العمل..ولكنها لم تقل لصديقتها التي تعيش معاهاتستقل القطار يوميا صباحا ومساءاتمر علي منزل زوجهاوعشيقته..التي صارت زوجتهوتمر علي منزل جيرانهما الزوجين السعيدينوبخيالها الواسع..تخيلت حياتهما السعيدة"جيسي وجاسون"أو هكذا أطلقت عليهما في خيالهاتراهما سعيدان يوميا..بينما تمر عليهما في القطار"راتتاتت - راتتاتت - راتتاتت"
The story is like getting into this 'routine' Train, not express, just normal.Looking into the window, if you're having free time, free imagination you'll see too much.Rachel , Anna , Megan "aka: Jess" and Tom , Scott "aka; Jason" All have their Obsession, weakness, feeling empty...empty life..Feeling unsuccessful, missing something..
This is the perfect weekend read. I settled into the story and spent most of Sunday (a dark and stormy afternoon) reading away. Murder.Public Drunkenness.Infidelity. Unreliable Narrators.Treat Yo Self.
There are sort of six main characters in this book (three men and three women, one of whom goes missing) and the synopsis tells us that (view spoiler)["only one of them can be the killer!".
(hide spoiler)] THAT TOOK AWAY FROM THE INTRIGUE A BIT.Another thing that sort of deflated the BIG REVEAL for me was that I had a really twisted theory about one of the characters, and it didn't come true.
Everybody was so messed up: the alcoholic main character, the promiscous victim, the desperate houswive.
And don't even get me started on their husbands.The unreliable narrator made this book so spectacularly intruiging.
Everybody could've done it.
Everybody had a motive.
But for once I was right.I think there was potential to make more of the story.
(view spoiler)[Why did nobody accuse Rachel?
I think it would've made this read even more exciting.
(hide spoiler)]I can't wait for the movie now.
Let's see how it goes!Find more of my books on Instagram
This book was INTOXICATING.
I loved every single second of it.
While I had gone into this story thinking it was going to be packed with suspenseful scenes, the mystery was really in the storytelling.
It was unexpected but executed SOOOO well.
A+ use of an unreliable narrator that propelled the story way beyond what I had originally anticipated.
While the events of the story were not necessarily the most "realistic", the many of the characters felt real; like people who could actually exist, who had authentic thoughts and feelings I could see reflected in actual people.
In fact, I wish the train had been the setting for the whole book and that the plot had turned into something twisty about mysterious commuters.
Instead (and in my mind, tragically), Rachel gets off the train.
We spend a lot of time inside Rachel’s head, and though this works in many books, it’s tedious here.I will say that despite this, the first-person voice drew me in.
Most of the book is Rachel’s voice, though two other women sometimes tell their stories.
Rachel should have stayed on the damn train and I might have ended up in the same town as everyone else.
También era cansino la mentira como herramienta para mantener el misterio.
Si ese recurso se usa algunas veces, no hay problema, pero en La chica del tren se usa siempre.
La autora no sabía qué hacer para mantener al lector enganchado y utilizó eso una y otra vez, y ya me molestaba.
Y esto es lo que más me molestó de todo: los huecos argumentales.
En La chica del tren, sin embargo, hay muchas incoherencias.
Empezando con los detectives (muy mal desarrollados, por cierto) más estúpidos de toda la Historia hasta vecinos que se volvieron sordos, este libro está plagado de fallas.
Along the way, Rachael creates a story about a perfect couple who's home backs the tracks, a home just a few houses down from where she lived with her husband.Enter Megan, who's story begins one year before Rachael's.
Meagan's story seems to move quickly forward, while Rachael's, very slowly.
I thought they were a perfect analogy for two trains on different tracks, bound to converge at some point along the way.
What has happened to Megan and what does her story have to do with not only Rachael herself, but also her fantasy story of the perfect couple?
(I'm a witch)With GONE GIRL (I read very early 'before' the hype) -- I knew the ending within 10 pages, (yet still enjoyed the ride).
I even told my husband -- I can't even try to figure this book out --so--- on with reading -- 'enjoy-the-ride'....
a 100 pages before this story ended)...soon after I had just told my husband --I can't figure this book out.So...I ROCK!
Its well-written....Its creepy -- Its different -- I liked the European -feeling also.My 4 stars --rather than 5 --has NOTHING to do with me figuring out the end plot -- I think there 'is' a place in the middle where the reader gets a 'little' annoyed with the pacing.
