https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/379701.The_Civilizing_Process
Norbert Elias,great sociolog, pure product of european culture in what it has of better.
I have read one of his most famous book many years ago " La dynamique de l'Occident ".
It highlighted the formation of Europe from the political organization of states.
I discover this book which is a kind of mirror of it because it takes place at the domestic level.
How gets organized the life at the concrete level of the individuals people : sexual behavior, way of knowing how to being at the table, things to be said and not to be said...
I think you would have to be a real history geek to enjoy it, but there is this whole section on medieval manner books that is hilarious.
Norbert is trying to demonstrate the shift in consciousness that occurred as people lived in more complex societies, rather than on isolated feudal estates.
His point is that behavior that we currently take for granted-- manners, civility--- had to be learned over time.
The books he quotes were written for adults trying to make it in complicated court societies.
For Elias, people learn to obey a code of conduct, people are restrained and refined, and emotions are culturally constructed.
He discusses sophistication of speech and our elaborate and refined use of language.
He claims we have made it second nature to adopt a social milieu.
courtesy (middle ages, sixteenth century - time when Erasmus wrote his text) 2.
civilization (19th century).
Urbanization, social density, increasing division of labor, inter-directedness, and other economic changes drove the privatization of bodily functions and affect.
Elias also discusses the avoidance of shame and embarrassment.
The methodology is extremely effective and well-outlined. Good for its subject matter and conclusions, but also its methods. This book was quite an experience to read and was very influential in my intellectual development.
Bourdieu seemed to think of aesthetics as ultimately arbitrary, serving only to signal and reinforce class distinctions, but I think if he were more rational, he could have seen how involved aesthetics (such as, for instance, the trend towards smaller knives at the dinner table) are with real social factors.
Using etiquette books from the sixteenth through the nineteenth centuries, Elias fashioned a theory of the evolution of our emotional lives and our notions of our self that is provocative and profound.
Since he tried to explain many of the things that interested Foucault, I was happy to learn that the journal Foucault Studies had a special issue earlier this year comparing Elias' ideas with those of Foucault.
It might have changed my life if I had read this book thirty years ago when I first noticed it.
For now it certainly changes my perspective on my study of the history of emotions.
Dense, academic, and sprawling in its scope, this book gets at the root impulses that people use to separate themselves from each other: manners, class, money. The time period is the Middle Ages, the basement from which we have constructed our sense of modernity. Affective restraint figures prominently in the brinkmanship of class, consciously and unconsciously. Elias's argument has altered how I see the world.
Simply spectacular. Must read. I don't even know where to begin besides saying "yes" to this one.
And eventually expand the synchronical study at the beginning to a more grand picture of Civilization process from small trivia daily-life routine and etiquette to more bigger-picture social changes--all the way combining with the interaction with the evolving change and the importance of human mind and emotion, to explain his theory diachronically.Elias is a true master of approaching social study and his theories in a diachronical way--and in fact more than that--rather than keeping it in a single small point, he concentrates his focus not just how things works but how individuals psychologically interact with.
divan bućkuriš."Kada se radi o pojedinčevom pristanku da će u određenoj društvenoj formi živeti s drugima, kao i o opravdanju činjenice da pojedinac, npr., živi unutar države, ili da je vezan za druge ljude kao građanin, činovnik, radnik ili seljak, a ne više kao vitez, sveštenik, kmet ili nomad-stočar - treba reći da su ovaj pristanak i ovo opravdanje naknadni.
Njega uslovljavaju da se manje ili više prilagodi.
Neodobravanje ovog poretka i bekstvo od njega isto je tako jasan znak da je čovek tim poretkom uslovljen kao i kada ga ceni i opravdava".
Fascinating social history that gives a different perspective on the past. It makes one realize how we read modern sensibilities back into everything from the Bible to the American Revolution. We definitely think differently today but it is clear that Western society cannot sustain this aberration of manners and civility that began just a short time ago and is in the process of ending.
Fascinating thesis, laborious writing.
*The Civilizing Process* is dense, discursive, Germanic, and in some ways pre-professional in its sociology (Elias has to argue at length, for example, for a discipline of historical psychology that is now well-established), but also fascinating and, in places, hilarious.
I loved the specificity of this portion of the book; the section on attitudes toward meat-eating was especially fascinating, and I adore the coinage "threshold of repugnance," which Elias uses throughout.
The Civilizing Process (Hardcover) by Norbert Elias ILL This book is recommended by "Do Muslim Women Need Saving?"|17574515

Elias begins by explaining the difference between French and German cultures, tracing centuries of social/political/economic changes to come to some wild (in a good way) conclusions about "how come the French ended up like this and the Germans ended up like this?" Even though his parents died in the Holocaust, he's not German-bashing.
His conclusions are so interesting and well-researched, tracing the rise of continental philosophy, the fall of aristocracy, what it means for a nation to be unified under one language as opposed to be split up into basically tribal areas, etc.
And he ends up detailing the rise of social etiquette, like "how come we eat with a fork and use a napkin?"It's a wild ride.
Märchenbuch. Wenn euch die Geschichte gefällt, könnt ihr's glauben. Die Wirklichkeit ist reicher als die Erzählung und der Autor hat erwiesenermaßen in zumindest einem Fall gegen sein eigenes besseres Wissen geschrieben. "Der Mythos vom Zivilisationsprozeß", geschrieben als Reaktion auf das Büchlein, von Dürr befasst sich ausführlich mit dieser Buntheit.
Hervorragender soziologischer Klassiker aus den 30iger Jahren des 20. Jahrh., in dem Elias wie aus dem Vogelblick die Muster der gesellschaftlichen Zivilisationsentwicklung aufdeckt. Teilw. monotone Wiederholungen, sprachlich ungewohnt, aber verständlich. Insgesamt: sehr erhellend.
Wherein one can learn that it is considered impolite in some circles to piss on the curtains.
It definitely influenced me on how I think about cultures. It provides a useful way to approach and address problems withing a community/culture.
lots of interesting info on everyday life but with broad, sweeping interpretations
