https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30938.Helena
And so the history, rather the Roman politics comes more alive than the character.
There are few moments in which she emerges as a live person and those passages are lovely.The religion (Christianity) occupies an interesting spot in the second half of the novel.
The reflections on Magi, Cross, Holy Land, and Pilgrimage are very revealing.Final Observation:The novel begins very slow and only half way through (that is, after Constantine becomes the emperor) it picks up the speed.If you are a Christian, you will find yourself reading some of the passages in the last chapters again and again (especially Helena's prayer to Magi).From HELENA by E.
He's always at your side, nudging the careful reader in the ribs to share a laugh at the expense of self-important intellectuals or effete no-talent artists trying to pass off their lack of ability as refined aesthetic sensibility.
Some of the references are historical "inside jokes" that are funny if you see them but less informed readers will breeze past.
Una buena novela historica de Waugh aunque siendo mas preciso habría que decir que es una recreación novelada de la leyenda de Helena la emperatriz romana repudiada por su esposo Constancio y que pasó a la historia por ser la madre del emperador Constantino el que hizo al cristianismo religión oficial del imperio y que sin su historica decisión posiblemente el rumbo de la humanidad hubiera sido muy diferente.
Aquí la protagonista es el personaje femenino de la historia la que supuestamente tras un sueño se dirigió a Jerusalen y realizó siendo ya una anciana de 80 años la excavación en la que se encontró la cruz en la que fue crucificado Jesucristo lo que la hizo ser considerada Santa tanto por los cristianos católicos como los ortodoxos.
In this short book Evelyn Waugh (Brideshead Revisited) takes a turn with Constantine's famously pious mother Helena.
Large swaths of her life don't even register on the grid of history until she comes thundering back into its pages well after her husband Constantius (Constantine's father) has died and well after her prime (she was probably close to 80 years old) to embark on her famous trip to Jerusalem.
Helena's youth is punctuated by the harsh cold of British winters, her marriage marked with the frigidity of a life lived largely alone and distant from her husband.
I would amend that to 'far the best thing he ever tried to write.'Briefly, the book recreates the life of Helena, mother of the Emperor Constantine and credited with finding the cross of Christ hidden at Jerusalem after the crucifixion.The book's style oscillates between a fictional historical novel and a traditional Life of a Saint.
The mood of this section is one of cynical futility: Helena, despite hobnobbing with the highest people in the empire, really has no reason to live except tend her villa and while away the time.In the last quarter of the book the real story starts.
It's the best written, most interesting theme." In the same interview he would say of St. Helena, "it wasn't about her sanctity I was writing; it was about the conditions of fourth-century Rome, you see.
Consider this, "It is almost certain that Helena directed excavations in which pieces of wood were found, which she and all Christendom immediately accepted as the cross on which Our Lord died.
We do not know that the wood Helena found is the True Cross.
We do know that most of the relics of the True Cross now venerated in various places have a clear descent from the relic venerated in the first half of the fourth century.
This novel tells the story of St. Helena and her discovery of the True Cross.
I wasn't expecting the emphasis on conversion, but I already have plans to gift this to many people from my RCIA program.Another interesting focus of the book is the contrast between myths and legends, Mount Olympus, and the cult of the Christians, The Cross.
She is never able to find absolute confirmation that the myths are true, that they really happened.
And there alone lies hope." It seems that in finding the True Cross, Helena has differentiated Christianity from the myths.
Witty and sometime humorous novella of St. Helen, mixed with a good deal of hagiography. The last few chapters were my favorite part: a "Golden Legend"-type pilgrimage to Jerusalem where Helena finds the True Cross and other relics. I also relished the literary or classical allusions such as Helena's father, King Coel of the Trinovantes calling for mead and music then dismissing his bowl, fiddlers three and pipe. Also Helena takes the young Constantine to "Government House" in her husband's posting and upon seeing the ocean, the little boy cries, "The sea; the sea!"Delightful!
DNF. The relationship is laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaame and I'm not in the mood.
How delightful!Loved Waugh's little joke about Edward Gibbon early on when talking about beasts writing history.
The introduction by George Weigl (who??) asserts that the book is a critique of gnosticism, calling it 'every bit as much a temptation in the twenty-first century as it was in Helena's day....Audiences still find it amazing, even unbelievable, when I tell them that, in the overwhelming majority of American universities today, very, very few members of the philosophy department will defend the claim that the reality we perceive discloses the truth of things'.
Nor have I ever read a book that concludes with 'Questions for Reflection and Discussion', such as: '1.
How did Helena's unique personality and her questions open her to fulfilling God's will?'
There are many such bon-bons in this novel, which is often very funny as well.Evelyn Waugh was also a Roman Catholic of the resentful British variety, embittered by the rejection of his faith in his homeland.
This slim novel tells the fictionalized life-story of the Dowager Empress Helena, mother of Constantine, the first Christian Emperor of Rome.
You won't get much of a picture of life in the third-century Roman empire, either.Read this as a work of fiction, a tissue of delightful lies from cover to cover, and you should be all right.
Waugh's Roman Catholic doctrine of relics is presented winsomely, if somewhat heavy handedly, but it did not persuade this Protestant one bit.
The best parts of the book are the passages that require a bit of historical knowledge to get the joke, as when Constantine leaves Rome to pope Sylvester, and one of the priests present says, "I rather wish we had it in writing", and another says, "Oh, we will"; or when Lactantius says, nodding to a pet gibbon, "A man like that might make it his business to write down the martyrs and excuse the persecutors.
This book, though, has almost none of his usual wit evident in works like like Scoop, A Handful of Dust, or even dramatic stories like his famous Brideshead Revisited.
The story follows Helena – the woman who will become Saint Helena – through her life.
It’s marked by Waugh’s absolute conversion to Catholicism, yet unmarked by more than just a handful of memorable characters.
The language never quite captures Roman antiquity so much as it hearkens back to the overworked sentences of the Victorian romantics.I did like how he explains the typical, constant violence of Rome.
Helena, emperatriz y santa es una historia histórica con una pizca de fantasía, pues no se puede saber a ciencia cierta si los hechos narrados en este libro son verdaderos.
Helena fue la madre del emperador Constantino, y en esta obra realiza una búsqueda de la verdadera cruz en la que se crucificó a Jesús, en una época en la que el cristianismo todavía luchaba por considerarse una religión importante en el imperio.
Siento que la forma en cómo está escrita, no deja comprender bien el significado de la misma, termine de leer el libro y seguía sin entender de que iba el libro y cuál era su importancia.
Eloquent and devout. Takes the scattered remnants of facts that we have regarding the life of Helena and her discovery of the True Cross, and weaves them together into an elegant narrative. Waugh emphasizes that this is a novel, with much invention added to what little we know. But there is an essential spiritual truth underlying all.
This was all over the place--It had moments of hilarious observation (like basically everything Helena said), moments of sadness, and long stretches that were utterly boring. Overall, it just didn't work for me but I'm glad I read it because Evelyn is awesome, duh.
What a hard language to read. I do not understand half of the words. But I am determined to finish.
For them it will be an uneasy and maybe often tiresome task to follow our heroine on her quest from Colchester to Treves (modern day Trier) to Naissus (modern day Nish in Serbia, which is surprisingly named just that in the novel) to Rome to Aelia Capitolina (yep, present day Jerusalem, if I need to add that), a quest not quite filled with many outwardly colorful moments, a quest of which the most important part is subdued and not exactly formally eventful spiritual journey of its main ‘traveler’.
But Waugh still chose Colchester as Helena’s birthplace.Yet, nevertheless, ‘Helena’ is a great, if somewhat flawed and uneven, work of a brilliant author.
The Catholics (and Waugh was a Catholic) made her a saint because she purportedly discovered the True Cross, the one on which Jesus was crucified.As Waugh acknowledges in his brief and witty introduction, not much is known about Helena even though she was such a profound influence on her offspring that he was the first emperor to desist from persecuting the Christians, he issued the Edict of Milan which allowed them to practise their faith without being fed to the lions, and he prudently got himself baptised on his deathbed, thereby cleansing his soul of a lifetime of sins just in time for entry to the Pearly Gates.
But for some reason Waugh chose to tell a story about St. Helena, the mother of Constantine the Great and alleged discoverer of the True Cross, using what the back of the book calls "crisp dialogue" like this: Another clergyman maintained the wood was aspen and that it was for this reason that the tree now continually shivered with shame.
"Rot," said Helena.
"Oh, do stop," said Helena.
"It's just this kind of story that I've come to disprove." "There's a great deal more," said the darky, reproachfully.
"At the end it floats up in the middle of the pool of Bethesda." "Bosh," said Helena.
It's hard to imagine a better entertainment than Waugh's typical clear vision and insight into the reality of things, applied to waning Roman imperial times.
At the same time, his depiction of "two admirable old people" - Helena and Pope Sylvester - is very touching.
Helena is the first wife of Constantius and mother of Constantine the Great, who legalized Christianity in the Empire.
Waugh convincingly portrays how this may have felt to Christians at the time.
God, the creator and upholder of all things, is not some impersonal force, the One behind the Many; instead he is a person that loves each of us as persons.
The only "fiction" of his I'd not read up to this point, Helena has been staring me in the face for years.
But, for 2018, I planned on reading a number of books "on the bookshelf," books I'd bought years ago and not read yet.
And as I was in the mood to read Waugh again, I picked it up.
What a great historical fiction.
Really shouldn't have taken me so long to read, but when you only read it at night, and you go to bed tired, one must be happy with only 10 or so pages at a time, right?
Was sticking with the Rome theme and this is a novel about Saint Helena, who was the wife of Emperor Constantius and mother of Emperor Constantine (the first to become a Christian).
It works to a degree but he lets you know several times that little is known about her life - should have just gone with telling the story and not interrupting with this aside.
The conversations are too modern for the time they take place in but she's an interesting character, you learn that life was pretty miserable for women back then, even for the wife and mother of great leaders.
A short little book whose length does not detract from its quality. Part hagiography, part historical recounting, part fictional embellishment on the life of St. Helena--Constantine's mother who found the True Cross--Waugh's characters are alive and believable shown mainly through dialogue. I expected more of Helena's holy journey but found most of the book concerned with her pagan life and Constantine's rise to fame. The story regrettably zooms through her pilgrimage; I wish Waugh would have spent more time in the Christian, not pagan, realm. A very good 8/10.
Evelyn Waugh did not write any other historical novels, although he did write a few biographies. This one tells the story of Helena, later Saint Helena, mother of the Roman Emperor Constantine. There are few known facts about Helena's life and a lot of legends; Waugh uses both the facts and the legends, blending them together into a coherent narrative.This is usually considered a minor work, but it is competently written and I enjoyed it a lot.
A short (mostly) hagiography of Helena, the mother of the Roman emperor Constantine. The story is an interesting look at the politics of the Christianization of the empire, as well as the life of the title character. One interesting sub-story is the tale of Constantine's wife Fausta, a would-be Christian, but leading a life that shows she just doesn't get it. My favorite portion of the book is Helena's pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and her hunt for the True Cross.
I loved this book and could have read more. It's ambitious, covering the whole of Helena's life, but has unbelievable clarity. The portrait it paints is of a powerful woman who knows her own mind and doesn't bend to the conventions of the age. It shows a woman of history who doesn't scrabble around trying to find her place in it. She had a long life with much pain, but the novel ends with hope. I can only wish the real Helena was the sort of woman Waugh writes about. What an inspiration.
Anytime I listen to a book and have to pull over to write something down, and then laugh out loud because something "serious" has been rendered preposterously comic, and notably when I think I just need to go ahead and buy the paper copy now two because there are simply too many parts to re-read and consider, then it is worth five stars to ME.
When Constantine leaves Rome to Pope Sylvester, one of the priests says, "I rather wish we had it in writing." Another priest nearby says, "Oh, we will." Ha.Here's a related article by a friend of mine at Baylor.
