https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40471.Outer_Dark
First one was The Road, which is without a doubt one of the best books I ever read, it had a great impact on me.
Second was No country for old men, after seeing the movie and discovering this story was also written by McCarthy I felt the need to read the story too to fully grasp its meanings.
I find his writing and style very powerful, very expressive, beautiful, clear sentences, language and descriptions and the stories are so fascinating and always food for thought, I am a big fan of Cormac McCarthy now.
This book has to sink in first and first I need some lighter reads before starting the next one.
Try not to compare/contrast the biblical images of shepherds tending flocks with pigs run amok while their drovers shower blame on the innocent bystander.
As an aside, I should mention that my biblical recollections are dated—arising, as they did (biting my tongue here) from a period after I followed a spectacular pair of blue jeans to a tent revival which led to a Scandinavian extravaganza with the Full Gospel Business Men’s Fellowship International.It’s tempting to bump up the star rating on this, as it was with The Orchard Keeper, but unless something really startling happens on these rereads I’m going to stick with my initial rating.
,
Like The Road, it is dark and sparse, and involves destitute people travelling on foot, looking for food, shelter and hope, but that is where the similarity ends.This is set much longer ago (before cars) and tells several parallel and occasionally intersecting stories: a woman searching for her missing baby; her brother searching for her; a tinker travelling between towns, and a gang.Although they all rely on, and often receive kindness from strangers, the book is suffused with brooding menace: "a sky heavy and starless...
Outer Dark: Cormac McCarthy's Novel of Judgment and Responsibility And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Matthew 25:30, KJVIf there were ever a more unprofitable servant to appear in literature, it would be difficult to find one less so than Culla Holme. Brother to Rinthy, he has perpetrated the social taboo of incest. He fears his sin will be found out. When Rinthy's water breaks, he allows her to suffer through labor, refusing t
To hide his abandonment of the child, Culla prepares a grave, a deception Rinthy sees through, digging up the grave herself to find that no body is there.Culla leaves their home and seeks work from town to town.
Rinthy also leaves home to find her child, her "Chap," as she calls him.Each of Culla's efforts to find work and become a profitable servant fail.
I leave the outcome of Culla's judgment to the readerm just as must also leave the outcome of Rinthy's search for her Chap.McCarthy's second novel descends into darkness of a degree much greater than seen in his debut novel, The Orchard Keeper.
An air of ruin permeates this bleak tale of abandonment, desperation, and want.
'Hard people makes hard times.' Culla and Rinthy Holme, brother and sister, were brought up hard.
They ain't never had nuthin'.
Look for a man who bares 'his orangecolored teeth in a grimace of lecherous idiocy.' Regard the 'dead gray serpentine of the river' as it flows.
See the old crone with the elfin face in the woods.
She won't abide a hound dog on the place, but has no qualms with a pig rooting around and sleeping inside her shack.
For readers who dig on desolate, unforgiving plots, this one's for you.
His prose contained the same lyrical beauty and biblical gravity of his artistic predecessor, but with a harsh, often brutal clarity that was all his own.With 'Outer Dark', he transcended the labels and comparisons, defining himself as the greatest prose stylist of his generation, framing the rough structure for his dark personal vision of America...
McCarthy draws upon archetypal resonance to give 'Outer Dark' a weight that transcends the particulars of time and place without in any way negating them.
It's not his greatest novel, but it was his first true masterpiece.
I read "All the Pretty Horses" many years ago and didn't care for it.
I liked "The Orchard Keeper", but it wasn't his typical dark, dark themes.But maybe this one came along at just the right time in my evolution as a reader.
McCarthy doesn't like one to get too comfortable.So, to surprise a lot of people, myself most of all, I am now a full-fledged McCarthy fan.
I may give "All the Pretty Horses" another try, but first I need to read "The Road".
3.5/5 The ancestors had called Europeans “the orphan people” and had noted that as with orphans taken in by selfish or coldhearted clanspeople, few Europeans had remained whole. They failed to recognize the earth was their mother. Europeans were like their first parents, Adam and Eve, wandering aimlessly because the insane God who had sired them had abandoned them.-Leslie Marmon Silko, Almanac of the Dead I will always be a fan of McCarthy because of his treatment of the "Western" tradition. How
Another reason for the not quite 'really liked it' is my quota of McCarthytasmagoric prose remaining unfulfilled by the end of the book.
Few can match the prose of an everlasting stumbling out of the utter darkness into a world of inexorable senses, so if you're looking for a McCarthy intro less inundated by public praise, this would be a good place to start.
Or maybe it was McCarthy's insistence on fleshing out the prolicidal male of the incestuous couple when the author's strengths lie neither in empathy nor in resonance but in fearful archetype of what we worship and cower amongst.
“Ive seen the meanness of humans till I dont know why God aint put out the sun and gone away.” ― Cormac McCarthy, Outer DarkI keep reading Cormac McCarthy to find a single crack of light in his dark, grotesque lyricism.
'Outer Dark' was unconventional and amazing.
In 'Outer Dark', McCarthy is throwing chert boulders at the dark center of the Universe.
Even in his small books he is taking on ideas as large and slippery as fate, guilt, agency, and God. Structurally, Outer Dark was drum-tight.
'Outer Dark' is prose art at a high-level and it scared the literary Hell out of me.
I place Outer Dark in one of the medaled positions of McCarthy’s entire body of work—it’s that extraordinary.
As I don’t mind working for my keep, that’s more than fine by me.Listen: when you start a book with consensual incest, you’re getting off to whipsmart start in my opinion (all apologies to survivors of consensual incest, survivors of Flowers in the Attic, &c).
Hounded by grief, by guilt, or like this cheerless vendor clamored at heel through wood and fen by his own querulous and inconsolable wares in perennial tin malediction.Outer Dark reads like some expurgated book of the Old Testament, where allegory and metaphor replace overt action.
All of the other reviews are too slavering, too worshipful, too fucking nerdy and self-referential to suggest that their authors actually read this book.
If you don't have anything to say, find a forum in which your lack of authority is expected: I suggest the rest of your life.
Given that all the heroes in McCarthy's books are killers, and all the killers embody nothingness, and that everything else is muffheaded stylistic flourish, I'd say that it's probably about nothingness.
Please allow me to give you a handjob McCarthy.
Esta recordação surgiu-me quando terminei de ler Nas Trevas Exteriores, pois temo que Cormac McCarthy consiga o que o Capa de Aço de São Cipriano não conseguiu: enlouquecer-me.
Quando o filho de ambos nasce, o pai abandona-o para que ele morra na floresta.
Vagueiam por terras, pedindo abrigo e comida nas casas por que vão passando; e enquanto ele pede trabalho, ela pergunta pelo bébé.
Na sua demanda, vão-se cruzando com três homens misteriosos até um final que pressagia o apocalipse para este mundo de cegos..."Que necessidade tem um homem de ver o seu rumo, se afinal de contas não há modo de lhe fugir?"(Carlo Carra, The Horsemen of the Apocalypse)
I'm not a fan of nonsense lyrical language nor am I a fan of incest cannibalist nihilism or lack of punctuation so this book is probably not the book for me.
If I met Mr McCarthy I’d be mighty tempted to ask him what happened to him as a child to make him write books this dark. But I wouldn’t ask because he’d probably tell me.
Absolute pleasure to read. Artistic perfection. The book and the author are classics!Update after second reading. A horrible and violent story, beautifully written. No happy ending.
What’s a jew?One of them old-timey people from in the bible.This was as bleak and foreboding as each McCarthy novel I've read so far. Perhaps made all the more enjoyable as I just returned from visiting a very “Child of God like” part of Tennessee. Almost put me off BBQ meat, though...
The book begins with sin, and this particular stain won't wash out, regardless of how far the brother, Culla, journeys through unnamed Appalachia in an attempt to scrub it.
Towards the end, when the brother sits down for a distinctly uncomfortable parley with the trio who have been pouring blood into his tracks as a macabre spoor, the stage is set for the understanding that he has reached the darkest corner of his own realization of hell.
McCarthy's vision of early America is the stuff of dreams and nightmares, populated with itinerant strangers and alternately hostile and accommodating locals.
A gnome-like misanthrope becomes an unwitting enabler and suffers like many at the hands of a triad of monsters who roam the wild periphery of the embryonic civilizations of this place and time in turn of the century America (but who knows, the towns, times and often the people are irrelevant in the ancient form of fables.
That’s what makes this author so appealing to me, by creating in the reader the belief that it is genuine, and the story will be unfolded in a way that is unpredictable and seemingly random.
I’ve not got soul one in this world save a old halfcrazy sister that nobody never would have like they never would me.
Esseri umani elementari, primitivi, colti nell'atto della loro sopravvivenza quotidiana, scevri da qualsiasi sovrastruttura dovuta alla cultura o all'abitudine alla convivenza, impegnati a guadagnare un dollaro al giorno quando la fame aggredisce le viscere, o meglio, quando gli stenti non consentono più di proseguire il cammino.
Finalmente ne "Il buio fuori" compare in primo piano una donna, Rinthy, che ricorda tanto Lena di "Luce d'agosto" di Faulkner.
Mi chiedo se Cormac non ci abbia pensato mentre narrava del comportamento così lineare, spontaneo e consequenziale di Rinthy, il comportamento di una gatta che cerca i propri cuccioli affogati.
Rinthy and Culla Holmes are siblings of unspecified ages (one would assume that they are both in their mid-teens) who live alone in a cabin deep in the woods.
The baby comes to term and Culla abandons it out in the woods where it is picked up by a tinker.
To follow this line of thought to its end one would have to assume the latter and that the final fate of the terribly neglected, one-eyed baby is McCarthy’s own indictment of the Christian God for allowing a world so steeped in the meanness of humanity to continue.
Yes, this book is dark and in no way spiritually uplifting, but it is also morbidly beautiful like an old cemetery.
Who were those three men? I am sure that (view spoiler)[I have no idea! (hide spoiler)]I have read several Cormac McCarthy books: The Road, No Country for Old Men, Blood Meridian and Suttree. With the exception of  Suttree I have not disliked any of those books and I even gave  Suttree two stars (It Was OK) because of the stunning language that turned up regularly.So Outer Dark  was a special McCarthy experience for me. I could actually follow the story: sister has baby; brother abandons baby; s
When Holme was taken from this cabin to the Squire at the point of a shotgun for what was finally determined to be trespassing, I almost laughed out loud (unheard of for me and McCarthy) at the long scene of the hearing, judgment and sentencing in the kitchen of the Squire’s house.I not only laughed but didn’t want to put the book down at the end of the story wondering what was going to happen.On the basis of the story, I am going to surprise all of you and give Outer Dark  four stars.
I read some reviews to see if there is anything I had missed, but I found that a lot of people were writing that they saw Christian overtones in it, Christ scenarios.
Sure the couple were religious, and the brother believed he had sinned against his sister, but then to begin making biblical analogies, such as the baby being Christ and the couple being Joseph and Mary, etc.
No. I don't believe that McCarthy is busy writing these books because he is trying to make biblical analogies.
But if he ever comes out and says that he actually wrote this book as a biblical analogy, then I will believe him.
As though Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire focused intently on the concentration of forces at issue in the moment of "the things I do for love." I've read enough McCarthy to understand, I think, that his prose is almost tediously spartan for nine parts and then will bust a sudden swagger of rhetorgasm, as perhaps suggested by prior remarks on Blood Meridian.Some examples (in addition to the quotations in the status updates):Early foreshadowing in "the trees reared like enormous androids provoked at the alien insubstantiality of this flesh colliding among them" (17);One principal observes how "the tracks coming up the near side had vanished.
This, much more so than the Orchard Keeper, feels like McCarthy's first full work.
The narrative focus is much tighter, even if the journeys that Culla and Rinthy take are every bit as shiftless and as doomed.
But by the end of the book, Mccarthy has stepped well beyond the typical southern Gothic territory he spends most of his first novel treading through.
Outer Dark, with it's central incestuous conflict, could easily have been just another novel about screwed-up Appalachian degenerates.
It's not southern Gothic or even american Gothic as much as it is Gothic period.
Feeling somewhat responsible (as well he should), Culla soon follows after, searching alternately for his missing sister and the child that seems to have cursed his very existence.From town to town throughout the South these siblings wander, Rinthy meeting the good people of the land and benefiting from the charitable nature that lies within most while Culla is plunged from one doomed misadventure to another in a descent toward madness that makes one wonder whether his long odyssey is some act of Old Testament vengeance a la Job. Throughout the tale he is run out of town, suspected of murder, trapped on an out of control boat with a frenzied horse, nearly plunged over the side of a cliff during a stampede, until finally coming face to face with evil incarnate in the form of three murderers who have been dogging his footsteps through every town and hamlet, leaving behind the bodies of those who dare to show friendship or kindness to this damned soul.
I read this right after Child of God which completely blew me away as did the film and it was yet another story of people who I constantly wonder about.
How would have love, quality parenting, education, support of community, psychological services, etc changed things ?Not for the easily disturbed, but for those very interested in psychology and society's role in how children turn out later in life thru severe deprivation of all things many take for granted but are unknown to many others.An entire dissertation could be prepared from reading this coupled with his Child of God.
The brother, who abandons the child his sister bears him, experiences the worst in people.
The sister, who sets off in search of this child, gets mainly the best.
There are floods and brutal murders and attacks and accusations true and false, and the motivations behind these events aren't always explained, but it's so clear that McCarthy's writing in allegorical mode that the explanations aren't necessary: these disasters and mysteries happen because they do, because it's a disastrous and mysterious world, because the brother (Culla) has sinned and must be punished.The most exhausting two hundred pages you'll ever read.
Like a sledgehammer of dried rose petals to your skull. Terrific book!
Una obra maestra
