https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2340220.The_Matriarch
Imagine the position of the bride of a son who had ‘married out’, who would not have the home of her own that she had anticipated, who would be trapped in a house ruled over by another woman who did things so very differently to the woman who raised hers.There were cracks, but it was a string of bad investments that swallowed the family fortune and destroyed a way of life.
Highly recommended. If you're into this sort of thing.
I loved the subject - a big cosmopolitan Jewish family, their trials and stories - so if it isn't your cup of tea, you might not enjoy it as much.
The central theme of the novel turned out to be family allegiance v.
Stern gives so much family background, and inputs so many characters, that it can be overwhelming and confusing - but that is the point.
You either fall in love with this family and understand (and envy perhaps) the bond that unites them and that makes Toni sacrifice herself for them, or you don't.
Rather a slow starter (all those names!), but I got more interested once it settled down to Toni's POV. I'll have to go back and read the books all together once I have them all and see how they fit together. That might be interesting paired reading with The Forsyte Saga, actually; this book is dedicated to Galsworthy, in fact.
Gladys Stern dedicated this book to John Galsworthy, and it's fitting as this is a family saga on a par with the Forsytes.Following the vast Jewish Rakonitz family - from Napoleonic times to the 1920s; from Pressburg to Vienna and ultimately London...but with offshoots all over Europe...from 'typical' Jews to those who adopt Englishness....it's staggering how the author gets so many characters into just 300 pages.But the central character is the eponymous matriarch, Anastasia, alternately charming, autocratic...utterly self sacrificing towards the family, yet ruling them with a rod of iron.
It’s about the titular Matriarch, Anastasia Rakonitz, who rules uncontested over generations of the Family, a benign and implacable tyrant.
It’s about Toni, her granddaughter, cool and levelheaded but subject to occasional fits of passionate rebellion, trying to navigate her way through outdated power structures, decaying splendour and destitution; torn between the boy she loves and her beloved family and the contrasting ideals they represent.
It’s about a whole generation of young women on the eve of WW1, who have been failed by their elders and brothers and uncles, and who are the ones who will save the family, despite oppression from all corners.This was glorious.
I really appreciate the work that Virago has done in reviving female authors and republishing their lost work. I thought this would be a good read because it seemed to be billed as a take on Anglo-Jewish life. Ugh, it was so hard to get through it. Everything that wasn't dull was embarrassing. It all felt like a lot of internalized antisemitism. No one was religiously Jewish and their cultural Jewishness consisted of continuing to make Viennese food, prefer male to female children, and like pretty clothes. Meh.

Too many characters to keep up with them and only got interesting for the last quarter
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2018/08/24...
