https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3663153-den-forsvundne-fuldm-gtig
En anderledes fortælling, som har en god portion sarkasme, og jeg synes især skildringerne af de mest utiltalende personer vi møder var ret morsom, da der gøres et stort nummer ud af hvor frygtelige mennesker der er, men stadigvæk med humoren i behold. En klassiker som klart kan anbefales, da den rummer både samfundskritik og en stor portion humor
Nokså lett, men ikkje så verst moro heller.
This novel is a scathing satire on life in pre-war Denmark written by an avowed Communist.
Certainly, the humor and biting irony is what makes this short book enjoyable, as well as the skill in which the author portrays the natural world.Two things brought me down about the novel.
It's rather sad, because the descriptive prose is at its best in the countryside and it's all wasted on this overblown rendition of Jante's Law.It's far better when misanthropes simply accept that humanity is doomed, rather than trying to find reasons why it's so and affix blame somehow.
It was interesting, a Danish mystery with a nice little twirl at the end, keeping a good helping of suspense without straying beyond anything too believable.
The writing was sensible and straightforward, if a little drowsy, although the criticisms of Danish society were definitely acidic.The subtext of the book is that the protagonist, Teodor Amsted, had been built to be the way he was by society: a programmed being, who follows the track of what life is like all the way to end, the end goal being that pension upon retirement.
Denne bog er genial! Bogen er en skarp satirisk fremstilling af danskheden og det danske samfund. Jeg sad flere gange og grinede for mig selv - Scherfig har en helt igennem original og morsom måde at formulere sig på. Bogen får formidlet den selvironi som, efter min mening, er karakteristisk for dansk humor og selvopfattelse.
http://bogbrokken.blogspot.dk/2011/05...
Very witty. A sharp cross section of the Danish bourgeoisie with a cute little redemption in the end.
Brilliant little story. The conclusion is a bit extreme but all the small steps leads there. What is freedom? And what if you don't want it?
Ganske sjov og med gode iagttagelser og pointer vedrørende livet og samfundet.
The things you find in the dollar bins...1930's satire of the bourgeousie by this Danish writer. It is pretty funny.
Classique danois qui demontre l'absurdite du bourgeoisme. Malheureusement, l'ecrivain etait un grand fan de l'Union Sovietique, et entre les deux le choix n'est pas difficile.
Review of The Missing Bureaucrat and Stolen Spring by Hans Scherfig here: http://thesecondpass.com/?p=4640
Read for school.
