https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183110.The_Mystery_of_the_Blinking_Eye
This time, Trixie, her BFF Honey Wheeler, and the entire Bob-White Club take a trip to New York City.
They met the three at Happy Valley Farm in Iowa during Easter break, and now they are traveling to NYC to spend time with the Bob-Whites!
Or is this a mystery for the Bob-Whites to solve?This adventure for the group in NYC was fun to read!
The kids are having fun touring New York, and trying to figure out why strange people seem to want the ugly little statue the woman gave Trixie in the airport.
Another fun visit with the kids from Sleepyside, NY!The Trixie Belden Series was published from 1948-1986.
I think I re-read this one a lot, because most of the details were familiar, though this time around I knew who Barbara, Bob, and Ned were because I'd finally read The Happy Valley Mystery.
It's also a much more solid mystery than the previous two.
And Trixie's daring finally gets her into serious trouble that's reasonable, even though it's obvious she's being stupid.
I also like that there's less "oh, Trixie, you're overreacting again!" from the male members of the Bob-Whites.
Too bad the Jim/Trixie relationship is so subtle in this one, but at least it's there.
There's an actual mystery to solve! There's actual consequences to this mystery! All the BWotG are there (my bby Dan finally gets to participate) in NYC, along with the new friends from The Happy Valley Mystery! This book is in my top 5 of favorite TB books.Recommended 11/12+ for a fortune teller and scary situations.
I've always loved this book in the series.
Early on Trixie is engaged in a mystery when she helps an elderly Mexican lady find her plane.
She hastily scribbles a fortune written in verse and soon Trixie is learning that the prose is coming true.
When I first read this book, I tried to decipher the message myself and figure out what scenario Trixie would get involved in based on the poem.
I really felt as if I was pulled into the mystery this way.There is danger involved in this title, as well as a criminal mystery...often, the mysteries Trixie gets involved with are not always criminal in nature.
I love the night of entertainment and food at the apartment and I think I even like that this is the first time Trixie gets in REAL danger with REAL criminals and that the boys come to save the day in a smart way that kind of makes sense and doesn't seem contrived (Hello?
In Blinking Eye, the Bob-Whites (all of them, even Dan, even Di) spend a few days in New York City with friends from Iowa.
The purchase of an ugly Incan statue gets Trixie immediately embroiled in a new mystery and what's more mysterious, a poem in Spanish that rhymes once translated into English!
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1964?.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden buys a statue at a antique store in New York City.
While the group, and their friends from Iowa visit tourist destinations, three thieves constantly work to steal the statue back from Trixie.Notes for the reader: A great mystery!
Another favorite Trixie. The Bob-Whites go to New York City with some friends from Iowa. Trixie helps a Mexican fortune teller at JFK and the woman writes her some mysterious poem in Spanish. Honey's housekeeper translates it -- amazingly enough, the poem RHYMES when translated to English. And then there is danger and stuff. My dad took me to New York with him when I was about 12, and all the tourist places I wanted to visit came from this book.
Book 12 and the Bob Whites travel to New York which seemed so grownup and sophisticated to me at the time. Loved this book (Dan is also included in the story).
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
This week while my friends are in New York and I'm at home, I found I enjoyed a little trip to the East Coast of yesteryear via the medium of Trixie Belden.
I owned the first 16 Trixie Belden books growing up, and I've always remembered this one for its travelogue of New York City 1960s-style - although I couldn't have guess the era at the time.
Even in my youth, I did not like the ghost-written Trixie Belden books (of which this is one) as much as the original six by Julie Campbell, but this one had a memorably snappy story with jewel thieves, fortune tellers, and fun facts for NYC tourists.
This book was really, really good!
I think that the setting was really cool, and I liked reading all about the different places in New York City that the Bob-Whites visited.
The whole thing with the prophecy from the Mexican woman was a little weird, and very unnecessary to the plot.
I thought the poem was clever, though.
I would like to bring up this yet again - Trixie makes mistakes.
When Trixie rode in a cab to that part of town I was thinking, "Foolish girl, what have you done?" xD Trixie is so not perfect and believable and relatable.
This is one of my favorites because I have been to NYC and have seen many of the places that they go when they are there.I also find it ironic that I lived in Westchester County, right in the heart of Sleepy Hollow land after being such a HUGE fan of these books.
It is so cool!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Of this series, I have two books that I practically know by heart.
This book and "The Mystery of the Emeralds".
I remember reading these and just *KNOWING* I would go there someday!
LOL], but they were my "go-to" books.
I still love this book.
Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved.
In this book, the pair travel to New York with their friends Ned, Barbara, and Bob. Trixie gets a prophecy from a Mexican fortune teller and tries to figure it out, but all to no avail.
What could the thieves possibly want with Trixie?
It is up to Trixie and the Bob Whites of the Glen to crack this case!
I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
While on vacation, theBob-Whites are staying at the Wheelers' deluxe apartment in New York City, where they will meet their friends from Iowa - Ned, Barbara and Bob. When the gang goes to the Kennedy Airport to pick up their friends, Trixie helps out a mysterious traveler who hands her a strange written fortune.
Leave it to Trixie to stumble into a mystery!Later, while window shopping with Honey, Trixie finds an ugly wooden statue she just has to have.
Soon after buying the curious little statue, Trixie is followed by menacing strangers.
Do the fortune and the statue have anything in common?
On a whim, Trixie picks up an idol so ugly it's cute. However, when people start following the Bob-Whites and their friends around New York City, she begins to wonder what she's stumbled into. I like the mystery in this book, and the characters are wonderful. However, there is a prophecy that forms a backbone to the plot, and that has always bugged me.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
This didn't use to be one of my favorites ...
but having visited New York City since I last read it, I found it much more fun this time, as I knew where the kids were most of the time, and could follow them on a map in my head.
I enjoyed that!Sept 2013 ...
enjoyed the book again, but I wondered about kids going to the theater to see a "movie" rather than attending a Broadway play?
Anyway, enjoyed the book yet again, and all the references to places in NYC that I got to visit a few years ago.
The Bob-White's are in New York City, sightseeing with their friends. After helping a woman at the airport, Trixie is given a little purse with a strange poem inside, surprisingly the poem seems to predict strange events that surround the Bob-Whites after Trixie buys a statue of a head at an antique store. They are followed by thugs intent on stealing the little statue, but why?
The NYC setting was lots of fun, especially in seeing how the tourist sites have changed over the past 40+ years. But I am VERY disappointed in Trixie for going off on her own like that. Really, Trixie. Haven't you listened to a thing Dan has said?
Quick re-read on a day I needed something light and fluffy. Love Trixie Belden, have for years! Especially love this one as the group travels around Manhattan. Brings back some memories of the time I spent there.
I love Trixie and the gang. especially with their good old fashioned wholesomeness. They are smart, funny and concerned for others.I may sound like a fuddy-duddy but I'd take The Bob-Whites over any Gossip Girl any day!
Fun Trixie mystery with 1950s style badguys.
This would have been more enjoyable if it didn't read like a travelogue for New York city for about 25% of the book...
I appreciate Dan getting a better chance to actually be a character rather than just the "oh he couldn't make it on this trip" guy in this book.
I loved this whole series my Mom passed them all down to me.
I liked this one alot even though it is one of the ghost writer books.
I remember these books from when I was younger and regret they have fallen out of favor with libraries.
My schoolmate Peggy owned the whole series of these books, and loaned them to me one or two at a time to read in junior high school. I loved them!
read when I was eleven through 13
3.5 stars. I like the prophecy part of this story, that was neat. The songs were tedious and dull but that's just my opinion. Good one about NYC without too much of a history lesson.
Was this the one where Trixie and Jim hooked up? Probably not...but I still loved it when I was a kid!
