https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294368.The_Lives_of_a_Cell
I’ve been looking forward to reading this book for quite a while—partially because it has gotten such good reviews online, and partially because I like reading essays on biology.
The only thing I can think of that could have motivated Lewis Thomas to write this book is sheer egoism.
And whenever he is particularly impressed with one of his own sentences, he calls his wife over, who is an expert in feigning enjoyment.)The best part of this book is the writing, but even here I think Thomas is irritating, vexing.
For example, this paragraph on pheromones: " 'At home, 4 p.m. today', says the female moth, and releases a brief explosion of bombykol, a single molecule of which will tremble the hairs of any male within miles and send him driving upwind in a confusion of ardor.
And look how effortless it was to figure out that "bombykol" was a powerful pheromone released by a female moth to attract a mate.
It is released by female silkworms in order to attract a mate.
The author invited my wife, the artist Susan Mohl Powers (google her on wikipedia), to exhibit at Sloan Kettering after she did at Squibb International Headquarters in Princeton (and was reviewed in the NYT), but somehow in the early 80's she was developing other forums.
On mitochondria, he notes, "in a strict sense they are not ours.
They turn out to be little separate creatures, the colonial posterity of migrant prokaryocytes...Mitochondria are stable and responsible lodgers..." Since I was a pre-med student at an excellent college, I follow this pretty well, but I believe only my nursing students really liked it at the community college when I taught chapters like "Death in the Open," and "The music of This Sphere."
Thomas' aim is to show readers that everything in Earth is connected even if such connections are microscopic and neglected by the human populous.Recommending this book to a general audience may seem like a strange thing, especially since most people would view this as an academic piece of literature that not everyone can enjoy in passing.
True, Thomas's work belongs to classrooms and for students who actively pursue science as a vocation but I believe The Lives of a Cell has accomplished a surprising feat: anyone can enjoy the essays he had composed, and he composed them with such delicacy, craft and mastery, successfully employing a literary voice to deliver his pieces.
Using cell biology as a springboard (fortunately not in too much detail) for his philosophy, Lewis explores what it means to be human and the functioning of society.
A central theme is human society as a living cell with its many interdependent structures and functions.
Here in America where socialism is a dirty word, many would not believe nature would stoop so low.Particularly interesting is the notion of human beings as an extension of a universe of information.
Although some knowledge of biology is helpful, this is primarily a book of philosophy and should be accessible to most readers who want to explore human nature and human potential.
A non-fiction book about biology that reads more like fiction.
It offers a wonderful, almost poetic scientific perspective on mankind, other species and the Earth as a whole.
Although I had to keep a dictionary of scientific terms handy as I read, it was an otherwise very enjoyable read.A quote from the book:"I have been trying to think of the earth as a kind of organism, but it is no go.
I cannot think of it this way.
If not like an organism, what is it like, what is it most like?
Then, satisfactorily for that moment, it came to me: it is most like a single cell."
The reason i say this is because it explores the human vision of the world around us, and the life forms and beings that pass us by in a matter of a lifetime.
The reason i say everyone should read it is because it's really a fascinating combination of biological science, mixed with great literature, and a speculative aspect on humans as a species.
If you have an interest in the world as a whole, how everything is interconnected, and do not mind some heavy scientific reading, then I HIGHLY recommend this book to you.
This is an odd little book, very slim and breezy to read, even though it drops some serious seven-syllable science words without so much as a nod towards defining them or even contextualizing them.
Like The Flight of the Iguana, it's really a collection of essays rather than a single narrative or thematic work, but that aspect is much more obvious in this book.
Apparently the book either collects essays from disparate sources, or their original single source didn't care if Thomas frequently recycled his favorite pet ideas - that language is an organic construct built in the same way ants build an anthill, for example.
The reader finds out so much about the human body that is not only startling but is basically an existential nightmare.
Instead of being a single form we are in fact made up of millions or billions of cells that share no DNA with us and are themselves made up of tinier cells that are grouped together.
This fact leads to the idea of the Earth itself being one gigantic jewel of a cell, suspended in solar system.TL/DR: This book rules and even though he dates himself a good bit, I recommend this for anyone with even a passing interest in finding out more of what it is like to be a human being.
This is a collection of essays (I think all of Lewis Thomas' books are) that were published in science and medical journals prior to being collected in book format.The essays are each so well written, beautifully phrased and accessible.
Each begins by looking at life at the tiny cellular level but reaches beyond the cellular level to encompass life at the fullest level.
For his ability to write about science and nature in a intellecutal yet humble and humorous manner appeals immediately.
He essays then insightfully reveal human nature.
To approach science in such a manner at a very early age, I think, would instill a great sense of admiration and accessibility.
Happily, he has all of Thomas's books, so I expect that I will end up reading them all.
After Tom has read this, we will return my father-in-law's copy, but I plan to look for a used paperback so I can keep it handy whenever I need a bit of thoughtful inspiration in the form of a brief, elegant essay.
Ugh. Pedantic drivel. No thanks.
This is a skill that Thomas seems particularly adept at, and one I wish that was more common.The bad: As many of these essays were published separately in journals, there is the inherent problem that they were not originally intended to be in a collection as they were being written.
Consequently, in collections of Thomas there are often overly repetitive mentions of certain facts about certain subjects (termites, mitochrondria, etc.) or themes of concern (nuclear war, music, language etc.) that can become a little wearisome if you read the book straight through.
But apparently I do not enjoy Lewis Thomas' version of any of those things.Firstly, the science in the book is terribly dated.
Secondly, Thomas' tendency to assume opinions as a basis for truth, and begin his extrapolations from that point, makes for a lousy experience, as I spent most of my time reading with one eyebrow raised, skeptical and annoyed.
I understand that he's not a scientist, but he is writing about science with no basis in the scientific method, which seems hypocritical.
although some of his language drew me in and allowed me to enjoy the experience of his poetic wanderings, most of it seemed purposeless and at times boring.
I read this book as part of Family Book Club, which I instituted with Christmas gifts last year.
The selfish part of this is that I may have given them books I wanted to read anyway (three of them are on a recent Time Magazine list of essential nonfiction, but I like to think I tailored the list to their interests--how my dad relates to Zen and motorcyles, I'm not sure, but it is about fathers and sons, too, I think).
Lewis Thomas certainly has a New-Yorker-magazine-in-the-mid-century voice: calm fascination.Rest of Family Book Club:Stephen: The Making of a President 1960.CJ: The Lives of a Cell (done).Dad: Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance.Mom: The Happiness Project (20% done).
This book is a collection of essays that discuss biology, language, society, and other issues of naturalism and scientific observation that weave together into a rather unique way of looking at the lives of individuals with respect to the others.
When I had finished this book, I was very excited by the new way I looked at the world around me, and eagerly discussed many of its concepts with friends and family.
The individual essays sometimes overlap, but overall form an organic whole, which is amusing because one of the core theses of the book is the way in which overlap between individuals in a society tends to form a larger organism.
In the spring of 1991, my wife of 21 years died of cancer, leaving me with the gift of two wonderful children, aged 5 and 7.
She was my high school sweetheart and the best friend I had ever had.
His wonderful essays put my life in perspective and helped me to cope with what I perceived as an irreparable loss.
He was a brilliant thinker and a wonderful prose stylist.
I read every essay he ever wrote, but this was my introduction to the thinking and writing of one of the most humane minds I have ever known.
The writing was brilliant in many of these essays, but I simply cannot endorse the theory of evolution as truth and law.
I don't dispute it's a good idea and theory, but it's still just that.
It's mystifying to me that scientists describe the beginning of time as if they were there, as if they have libraries filled with annals of encyclopedic data.
The fact is, they weren't there, and the so-called data we do have is speculative at best.
But, I also can't deny that many of the essays, like, "Germs" and "Information", were well written and are as relative today as they were in the early 1970's.
An anthology of short, philosophical meditations on the biology and ecology of life, pondering such varied topics as; Can we learn from ant colonies?
An emotional response to road kill and the odd venture in the direction of 'the Gaia Hypothesis' en route.I found it a little dry in places but the entries regarding linguistics and genetics and the communal nature of life were interesting; Organelles within our cells carry DNA that is exclusively theirs, not ours.
At it's most basic level then, life is communal and I'll never see road kill quite the same way again.
Ever have a book give you a deeper appreciation for life by revealing your ignorance?
And this type of revealing ignorance doesn't make you feel bad or inadequate.
You just kinda feel the need to keep reading and learn more.
It makes you never want to be ignorant again.
Well, in my case it did.Discusses the concept of the earth as a larger version of a cell.
So the "lives of the cell" are the occurrences of our everyday life.
Visible and "invisible".A good companion book to this is Don Delillo's WHITE NOISE.The overall arc of LIVES OF A CELL is dealt with in WHITE NOISE.
I enjoyed reading these short essays. Thomas has an endearing way of presenting little known facts and sharing unusual analogies that bring unusual insight into the behavior and society of humans and their diseases. This is no hum-drum collection of nearly identical articles, but a widely varied set of essays that incorporates good humor and generous praise of the wonderful world in which we live.
Author Thomas is, among other things, a medical doctor and these essays are excerpted from issues of the The New England Journal of Medicine published in 1971, '72 and '73. Although dated, scientifically speaking, their multiperspectival theme of the interconnectedness of living things at all levels is still philosophically relevant. Besides, his writing is beautiful.
This book changed the way I looked at science. Lewis is full of a sense of wonder about science that beats back the reductionist labtrash and prepares the mind for seeing the creativity, danger and absurdity of the biologic world. I've bought at least five copies of this book over the years and given them away.
Remarkable book, not too deep for the layperson. Some words did go over my head, but I understood the gist of most everything the author was trying to say. Interesting look at biology, insects, man, and earth. Definitely worth the read and requires little effort. Go for it!
Really interesting to reread these essays after about 30 years. Some remain truly timeless, while others have a quaintness about them that is interesting for capturing the period when written. All are worth reading in any case.
I plucked this book from the one dollar bin at Borders; yet Nora Roberts goes for seven at every grocery store. This says a lot about the market for existential holism.Book good. Me read.
It has been a long time since I read this book. Perhaps I would enjoy it more now. I will put it down on the list to read again soon. His writing is rather like that of Stephen Jay Gould.
One can think of at least twenty major diseases that require this kind of supportive medical care because of the absence of an effective technology.
An extremely complex and costly technology for the management of coronary heart disease has evolved--involving specialized ambulances and hospital units, all kinds of electronic gadgetry, and whole platoons of new professional personnel--to deal with the end results of coronary thrombosis.
If the installation of specialized coronary-care units can result in the extension of life for only a few patients with coronary disease (and there is no question that this technology is effective in a few cases), it seems to me an inevitable fact of life that as many of these as can be will be put together, and as much money as can be found will be spent.
National Book Award winner.These essays were originally published in the early 70's in the New England Journal of Medicine and then compiled into a book in 1974.
We are organisms made of organs, made of tissues, made of cells, which contain organelles.
OR are we like the organelles of the organism Earth?2.
We seem to be concerned about contamination, yet our cells contain organelles which were originally other organisms.
Do humans produce and sense pheromones?4.
How are we attempting to communicate with life there?9.
Social insects compared to a society of humans.11.
Autonomy within the human body.13.
The human over reaction to germs.14.
" [W]hen a bee is tracking sugar by polarized light, observing the sun as though consulting his watch, he does not veer away to discover an unimaginable marvel of a flower.
It is a real pleasure to read such a humane, generous voice, filled with curiosity and wonder (though occasionally righteous indignation), highly rational and yet skeptically conscious of the limits of reason.And he is particularly interesting, in this collection, on the idea of language itself as humanity's purpose, in the way that an anthill is the product of a collective purpose unclear to any single ant--who can't live without its society anyway.
