https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1571385.The_Wandering_Scholars_of_the_Middle_Ages
Rampant rolls of verse citation seep and suggest all the anxious influence of the ancients, particularly the Irish, who survived the initial pillage from the vikings and thus kept the fire burning per the ancient training.
Thus when the Normans stormed the door, the Irish fled and took with them the seeds of generation.
I detract a star as I suck; there are no translations of much of the cited verse.
Monks stuffed with classic poetry and hearts beating with the secular left the cloister and took to the road.
But both books are nonfiction about a very interesting topic, filled with vivid anecdotes, and yet the reason to read them is not the information but the writing itself.
The book is stuffed with allusions and quotations, and I think unless you are Waddell herself, it's impossible to be conversant with everything she references; so it passes like a dream, partly understood and imperfectly remembered, but beautiful.
It is the Middle Ages in the medium of a dream."I find this book extremely hard to recommend, because if I say "you should read this book about wandering scholars in the middle ages" it sounds like the interest is in the topic.
Thomas Pynchon writes: A collateral effect, for me anyway, was that of Helen Waddell's The Wandering Scholars, reprinted in the early '50s, an account of the young poets of the Middle Ages who left the monasteries in large numbers and took to the roads of Europe, celebrating in song the wider ranges of life to be found outside their academic walls.
Given the university environment of the time, the parallels weren't hard to see.
Not that college life was dull, exactly, but thanks to all these alternative lowlife data that kept filtering insidiously through the ivy, we had begun to get a sense of that other world humming along out there.
I can't retain any of the information in this book, because of Waddell's eccentric, complicated, and completely wonderful writing style. Full of anecdotes about monks, bishops.
Waddell's writing is beautiful and rich in allusions from her seemingly endless knowledge of literature.
This book is a difficult read because a ready knowledge of the subject matter (including Latin, German, and French) is assumed.
It is easy to get lost in Waddell's swift transitions from subjects.
And for those of us who are the conservatives of letters, for whom literature obeys the eternal movement of tides, for whom the heavens themselves are old, there remains the stark simplicity of Terence - 'In truth they have deserved to be remembered of us'"(238).
Apologies to Golding, but Pound's oft-quoted appraisal, 'the most beautiful book in the language,' more fittingly belongs to this work: prose like stained glass; standing at a luminous midpoint between two distinct influences: the impossibly learned magnanimity of Saintsbury and the allusive pointillism of the Imagists.
A wonderful, whacky piece of writing about the Middle Ages and the "bad boy" writers and hellraisers who inhabited them. If your image of these years is of pious books and true holiness, you might want to take a look! Some of the words in Orff's Carmina Burana come from this book.
On p. 236, near the end of the book, Waddell says, "In the last resort, the medieval scholar's lyric has value only for those to whom the richest thing in life is the sense of the past." I think that sums it up well. It may be an understatement.
Reading this is like spending an evening with a brilliant, chatty scholar who knows her work so well she can't take time to explain exactly who the poet was or where his work is written down.
One either keeps up or is lost in the rush of wit and beauty.
The scholars are the secular poets of the late middle ages, the first voices to mock the church, to revive Eros and Bacchus, playful precursors of NeoPlatonism and alchemy, wastrels, lovers, gamblers, doomed men and this history of their lives and work is immortal in its own right.
One Of A Kind - Exceptional Book! It Tells About "The Bar That Changed The World"!" Emotionally Explains How The "King James Bible" Is The Masterpiece Of English. HINT: It Has To Do With The Synthesis Of Christ And The Muses ... #TheBarThatChangedTheWorld #SynthesisOfChristAndTheMuses #TheMiddlePillar #DepartToTheRightHandNorTheLeft
It's about a pretty specific historical topic, the 12th and 13th century Latin poetry of the Goliards, groups of disillusioned university students and young clergymen who wandered Europe singing songs and writing poems critiquing society--in a way, the proto-Beats, precursors to the 1960s:"But these others who served a ruinous altar and got a scanty living by it: the grammarians of Toulouse sitting up at nights to argue the frequentative of the verb to be: Rahingus of Flavigny filling his scanty leisure with copying Virgil: Froumund of Tegernsee collating manuscripts of Perseus with chilblained hands: Primas shivering and mocking in his shabby cloak, writing a lament for Troy with Bacchanalian tears: the Archpoet coughing his heart out on the Lombard roads; a century of nameless vagabonds: on these the iniquity of oblivion hath blindly scattered her poppy.
They kept the imagination of Europe alive: held untouched by their rags and poverty and squalor the Beauty that had made beautiful old rhyme.
A shockingly disappointing read.
Sure, there's flashes of some of the awesome: the whole introductory bit about monks and those wacky fucks holding on to the Latin "pagan" lyric traditions (something seen at the time by the establishment as akin to A.L.F.-on-Garfield snuff videos, to name a modern equivalent) is pretty darn good and we get hints and flashes of some of the greatness of these guys, but Waddell, obviously wacked-out of her mind on some sort of Latin-lyric version of ketamine, doesn't ever talk about any actual history.
Her language, flowery and refreshingly unacademic, can't disguise the fact that all we're given here is a litany of name-drops and a bunch of shit in languages that the layperson can't read.
There is actually only one chapter on the Ordo and one on the Archpoet, but both are wastes of space.
A sadly somewhat neglected classic of medieval scholarship, somewhat light on context but if you're not willing to do some outside research on your own you probably won't end up hunting down a copy of this anyway. In my wildest dreams I picture a reissue with a generous anthology in the back. Torrid threesomes with generous anthologies. Anyway, this also has a bunch of frankly adorable anecdotes about monks, which I'm always in to.
5/14/2011---The Wikipedia article on the GOLIARDS tells us of their raucous life-style, their satirical criticism of the Medieval Church from within its ranks, and references Helen Waddell's book.
dense
I think I read this back in '74 but I need to reread to make sure. I was writing a paper and translating a poem by Peter Abelard to his son at the time and I seem to remember reading this.
