https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20613761-citizen
Like Coates, she experiences such incidents as a form of violence that throw her back upon herself, upon the resources of her blackness, her own body--her very identity, the nature of the self turned into a painful question.
And I am sure that, if you love Coates' Between the World and Me as much as I do, you will like this book very much.Here is just one of the many incidents Rankine relates:A man knocked over her son in the subway.
This book is necessary and timely. It was timely fifty years ago. I pray it is not timely fifty years from now. Rankine takes on the realities of race in America with elegance but also rage/resignation... maybe we call it rageignation. Outstanding book.
From casual encounters to the Trayvon Martin murder or the hurricane Katrina news coverage, Rankine creates a wonderful multi-media artistic expression that straps the reader into the awkward situations where words get ‘stuck in the throat’, and though the purpose outshines the prose, the reader is left gasping for breath in a world much larger than themselves that is in desperate need for an awakening and change.‘Do you feel hurt because it’s the ‘all black people look the same’ moment, or because you are being confused with another after being so close to this other?’Rankine never falters in her mission to position the reader in the uncomfortable moments of being assessed not for your abilities, personality, qualities or deficiencies, but simply for the color of your skin.
This was quite an emotional read for me, the instances of racial aggressions that were illustrated in this book being unfortunately all too familiar.
I hope this book will help people become more empathic to the plight of others.
I liked the style this book was written in, I guess you could loosely call it a poem.
The only poem I've ever written has been on racial aggressions and the racist media; I felt at the time it was a way for me to get my thoughts across clearly and it turned out to be very cathartic.
And reading this was also cathartic.
Claudia Rankine is an absolute master of the written word.
Her gripping accounts of racism, through prose and poetry, moved me deeply.
I loved this small piece of prose, "feeling most colored when thrown against a sharp white background." As a huge Serena Williams fan, I read with rapt attention to the expose' on Serena's plunge against that sharp white background.
I also learned a lot, as I was unfamiliar with some high profile racial events such as the 2006 World Cup French team, and Jordan Russell Davis.The writing, prose, and poetry is absolutely exquisite.
A book I could read over and over.
The experiences of Americans whose color has rendered them invisible to the many who are privileged enough to be blind.
It is fascinating to read and experience this book of poetry and essay and visual image in light of the Rachel Dolezal controversy that exploded over the weekend (the president of the Spokane NAACP who identifies as "black" despite all evidence to the contrary).
Whatever is in Ms. Dolezal's heart—and it seems clear that identifying as a black woman is meaningful to her—what cannot be denied is that her very choice is a privilege.
The face that fills the hoodie is invisible.
4.5 starsI read about 40 pages of this back in September for Diverseathon, but for some reason, I really couldn't get into it then.
I began to pick this up from where I left off, recalling that the last essay/poem I had read was really long and rough to get through, but I told myself that a fresh start would be my motivation to see this with fresh eyes.
I loved almost every single page, and the art and photography interspersed just made it that much more tragic.
My only complaint is that sometimes Rankine's writing gravitates toward being overly wordy.
This is a poignant powerful work of art.
It's more than a book.
The sections study different incidents in American culture and also includes a bit about France (black, blanc beurre).
(That part surprised me.) Rankine does a brilliant job taking an in-depth look at life being black.
In the light of the horrors that are finally coming out in the US concerning the police and its poor treatment of Black Americans, this book shines more not that, through words and pictures.
Each word is a lyrical tribute to Black Americans and all that isn't shouted out on a daily basis.
I like this image of reading as an act of protest.
The contemplation of images, history, memory, and their effect on specific bodies works as a shield against political demagogues who promise easy answers to intractable questions.It's comparatively easy to call for action against racist laws and institutions and bring up proof against them.
Of course not every person is a Christian, but the idea of some implicit bias seems anathema to the idea that every individual decision is rational and can expunge their faults once they are realized.
Also memorable to me are the little tidbits from Rankine's experience, such as people complaining to her about what they perceive as "affirmative action" (DURING a job interview), getting constantly confused with other colleagues because they are both black, and her therapist thinking she was trying to break into her home (she had an appointment.) So many cringing moments from what are likely shared experiences.The rest of the book has some poetic treatment, imagined documentaries, art, photography - a glossy, immersive experience that can bring you in even if this hasn't been something you've had to face personally.
claudia rankine is oxygen to a world under water.
A piercing and perceptive book of poetry about being black in America. With rightful anger and sadness Claudia Rankine details the racism she has experienced in the United States, as well as the racism that surrounds popular black people in the media like Serena Williams, Barack Obama, and Trayvon Martin and James Craig Anderson. As Michelle Alexander writes in  The New Jim Crow , we like to think that we live in a colorblind society, when in reality that false belief just blinds us to the ways
A piercing and perceptive book of poetry about being black in America.
With rightful anger and sadness Claudia Rankine details the racism she has experienced in the United States, as well as the racism that surrounds popular black people in the media like Serena Williams, Barack Obama, and Trayvon Martin and James Craig Anderson.
, we like to think that we live in a colorblind society, when in reality that false belief just blinds us to the ways we let racism grow and fester.
Claudia Rankine puts the emotional and physical impact of this racism into eloquent, intelligent language.
America, we must do better.
Rankine’s small book of essays tells us the myriad ways we consistently misinterpret others’ motives, actions, language.
Bass's review (12.24.14) explains the floating and disembodied hoodie on the cover, black against a field of white: an art installation made in 1993 by David Hammons, long before Trayvon Martin died--before he was even born.
Overhead in the conference room: “being around black people is like watching a foreign film without translation.” Yes, it is a cultural difference.
Or is it because black and white are not as different as we were expecting?
"Those years of and before me and my brothers, the years of passage, plantation, migration, of Jim Crow segregation, of poverty, inner cities, profiling, of one in three, two jobs, boy, hey boy, each a felony, accumulate into the hours inside our lives where we are all caught hanging, the rope inside us, the tree inside us, its roots our limbs, a throat sliced through and when we open our mouth to speak, blossoms, o blossoms, no place coming out, brother, dear brother, that kind of blue."Necessary reading right now.
450 years in a sentence.
Find this and other Reviews at In Tori LexThis book is a beautiful reflection at how racist microaggressions that most minority's face mentally chip away at the people who experience them.
It's documents the weight of excusing racists slights and ignoring views in attempts to just exist as human.The book navigates between short poems and powerful vignettes.
"...a friend once told you there exists the medical term- John Henryism- for people exposed to stresses stemming from racism.
The resounding truth I read in these poems, and the sigh of relief I felt reading came because I try very hard to look past small acts of racism.
After reading Citizen, it’s hard not to hear Rankine’s voice as I ride the subway, walk around NYC, or even pick up other books.
We live in a culture as full of microaggressions as breaking new headlines, and Citizen brings it home.
Whether Rankine is talking about tennis or going out to dinner, or spinning words until you’re not sure which direction you’re facing, there is strength, anger, and a call for white readers like myself to see what’s in front of us and do better, be better.
— Jenn NorthingtonFrom Best Books We Read in December: http://bookriot.com/2015/01/06/riot-r...
But for the most part, I found this terribly self-indulgent, formless adolescent gloop that felt like listening to a cultural studies student breathlessly talking about last night's dream in a therapy session.
Don't feel like you are mistaken.
And:"That time and that time and that time the outside blistered the inside of you, words outmaneuvered years, had you in a chokehold, every part roughed up, the eyes dripping" Confronted by these kind of witterings, I always want to break the silence and say: "Anyone know what time the Victoria line stops running?".
Every other line, I'm shouting: "what are you talking about?
Citizen: An American Lyric is a powerful work, the most recent by poet Claudia Rankine.
It is cry about racism, prose and poetry with the line between the two often blurred or non-existent.
It is "political poetry" at its best, most moving, uncomfortable for me as a white woman but searing and with a beauty in the language that conveys the ugliness, the horror in much of what it tells.The book sent me to Youtube to hear Rankine reading, Rankine interviewed.Rankine is a major force, a brilliant poet and Citizen: An American Lyric a necessary book, sadly resonant in today's society.
I'll just say it. Most important poetry book of the year. Brilliant, deeply troubling, beautiful. It better dang well win the National Book Award.
At times I wondered why she for example attributes a single horrible quotation about Serena to a monumental non-existent entity called "the American Media." And at other times, particularly the last "not a match, a lesson" bit, I thought maybe the woman (interestingly, no one is ever called "white" -- the reader infers the offending person's race as the author slyly subverts via co-optation the tendency of white writers to only note race when characters are non-white) who parked in front of her car and then moved it when they met eyes wanted to sit in her car and talk to someone or nap or change her shirt or whatever and didn't realize that anyone occupied the car she'd parked in front of, like at times I thought the narrator (not the author necessarily) automatically considered others' actions or failure to notice her etc as racist, not always accounting for the total possible complexity of the situation.
Whereas, for me at least, the power of poetry arises from the uses of language and its incredible compression, and its reformulation of reality, this work develops on accumulated incident.An early example is based on Serena Williams and her experiences on the tennis court with a dishonest umpire and an opponent willing to accept victory based on outrageously bad calls, a parodic appearance of Caroline Wozniacki (photograph included).
If the work is to be successful, it has to accomplish that feat, but, to me, there appear to be a number of stumbling blocks.
A damn hard read but a damn necessary one.
And so on.I have twice in the past six months read National Book Award winner Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi Coates, which I found to be powerful and eloquent on the subject of race, and the Goodreads algorithm suggested I check out this "related" text, and reminded me that this book, Citizen, is a National Book award finalist from the previous year, nominated for both the National Book Circle Award in poetry AND criticism.
Magnificent. Read it all in one flow. Claudia Rankine gives us an act of creativity and illumination that combats the mirror world of unseeing and unseen-ness that is imprinted onto the American psyche.I can't fix it or even root it out of myself but Rankine gives me, a white reader, (are there other readers - the mirror keeps reflecting...), a moment when I can walk through the glass. And this is why I read books.
You should read this book, as should every white (black), straight (queer) (all kind) person in this country & the world.
Rankine feels deeply AND can put those feelings in words that burn me as if they were my own feelings, as if I had suffered what she has suffered & continues to suffer her life long by/for being a black person in our 21st century still-extremely-prejudiced US.Recounting her own experiences, Rankine pays homage to all who are similarly slighted, she respects rage & despair, she honors deaths at the hands of self-righteous louts, she stands up for what she has not been always able to say aloud in real time but has taken home to sift & spell.I've only just received this book, only read it once, these are freshest, rawest responses.
Had the pleasure of talking to Claudine Rankine's editor about this remarkable book:http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/s...
I went to pick this up from the library and had some extra time so I started to read it. Before I knew it I had read over half of the book. It is just that good. Leaving the library I ordered a coffee at Starbucks and finished it. Now I am heading home where I will reread and really savor it. Beautiful writing which struck many cords in my memory. Who should read it? Everyone who has an interest in racial and human conditions.
Citizen is an exploration of attitudes, a loose leaf dispatch on race. Is it a meditation on anger? On images and bodies?Is language as violent as memory? Is it privilege to be oblivious?I said aloud while reading that, “my mental misanthropy is presently blooming.”I stumbled upon this book this morning, fully unaware. It was digested in a futbol half.
You begin to think, maybe erroneously, that this other kind of anger is really a type of knowledge: the type that both clarifies and disappoints. It responds to insult and attempted erasure simply by asserting presence, and the energy required to present, to react, to assert is accompanied by visceral disappointment: a disappointment in the sense that no amount of visibility will alter the ways in which one is perceived. It's been peculiar witnessing the waves of hype surrounding Between the Wo
There are many other aspects to this half-reticent quarter-contented eighth-bothered by in 2015 all the women being white and all the people of color being men if you throw in Nobel Winner Svetlana Alexievich into the mix, but the last worth mentioning is I simply cannot get used to the atmosphere.
I've got enough KKK to get off their collective back with my powers of whiteness that I don't even have the time to barge my way into conversations within which I don't belong.
Centuries have gone into the construction of whiteness as pure trauma to all those it has not been physically bequeathed, and let me tell you, it's been working goddamn fine ever since.
“The purpose of art is to lay bare the questions hidden by the answers.”  James Baldwin In Citizen: An American Lyric Rankine’s prose reads more like a political essay than lyrical poetry. However, her accounts expose prejudice both large and small. She deals head on with atrocities that have been deemed fit for American headlines – The Jena 6, Trayvon Martin, Hurricane Katrina, Have you seen their faces?we are drowning herestill in the difficultyas if the faces in the images hold all the conse
-		-	- but usually not forgotten.Rankine’s is a powerful voice; daring to ask the questions that we think but often don’t say aloud.
It is not only that confrontation is headache-producing; it is also that you have a destination that doesn’t include acting like this moment isn’t inhabitable, hasn’t happened before, and the before isn’t part of the now as the night darkens and the time shortens between where we are and where we are going.”  Did I hear what I think I heard?“Being around black people is like watching a foreign film without translation.”“The man at the cash register wants to know if you think your card will work.
