https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203221.Baudelaire
Now, after gobbling down those evil flowers, I feel an ache in my heart, my gut - as if my soul had eaten bad seafood.
How many poets could look ugliness in the eye the way he did - especially their own inner ugliness - and also see hidden beauty in the most abject of souls without denying the ugliness?
(This edition includes the entire text of Les Fleurs du Mal - the Flowers of Evil - translated by Richard Howard, plus eight prose poems translated by Michael Hamburger.) I didn't love all the poems and found some of them repulsive or just too painful.
Reading poems by Charles Baudelaire is like drinking a glass of a royal, rich, red wine.You drink it best late in the evening, one sip at a time.
Not at ALL what I expected. Most of this volume is from "Les Fleurs Du Mal," which I didn't learn the translation of until after I was done reading. ("The Flowers of Evil." A very fitting title.) These poems start with love, then turn into heartbreak, hatred, jealously, physical lust, drunkenness, murder, loss of soul, etc. Many are disturbing, but the feelings of loss, sorrow from love, sorrow from sin, and despair are so openly written - you can't help but feel it deeply. I would have given more stars - but for the subject matter. Wouldn't recommend to teens.
Without resorting to a Panglossian tautology, I will point out that, at a minimum, the life of man is less solitary (thanks to the internet) and less short (thanks to advances in medicine) than it was at any time in recorded history.Did Baudelaire open the gates of Hell and unleash its evil on a previously pure world?
There is nothing new under the sun nor in the pits of Hell.If one were to read these poems with one's mind set in the context of Baudelaire's life, certainly they would be shocking.
I don't know how Howards' translations stack up against anything else out there, but here's an example from the New Directions edition of Paris Spleen (translated by Louise Varèse):“The man who loves to lose himself in a crowd enjoys feverish delights that the egoist locked up in himself as in a box, and the slothful man like a mollusk in his shell, will be eternally deprived of.
It is there we must live, it is there we must die.”And the same passage from Hamburger (great name btw):"There is a land that resembles you, where all is beautiful, rich restful and decorous...where life is sweet to the senses, where happiness is wedded to silence.
I don't love the dust cover, but underneath, the clothbound hardcover is everything I expect a book of poetry to look like.
Second of all, I didn't know anything about Baudelaire, except that he was French.
I've come away feeling like I know a little more about him.
People don't appreciate what they have, and seek more, not knowing that what they seek will ruin the beauty they possess.Like many poets, Baudelaire is concerned with Beauty and Love and Loneliness and the pursuit of perfection.
I feel that reading him had been a good start to my attempt to read more poetry.
The best poetry changes the air around you...raises your temperature a degree or two..increases the heart beat..connects to the very pulse of life.
Baudelaire visits us almost like a time traveller - preoccupied with post Freudian concerns, introspection and nightmares; a modern urban watchman recast as a 19th century flaneur.
If he was born a century later he would have easily been a Jim Morrison figure - but with actual talent.
He was no Parisian poseur..no tortured soul nursing an Absinthe or getting tangled up in a self spun web of delusional pretence..he was a working writer, badly paid and little understood.
Modern poetry starts here.

It is a bitter truth our travels teach!Tiny and monotonous, the worldhas shown -will always show us- what we are:oases of fear in the wasteland of ennui!Baudelaire truly is the master of decadence and damnation. Unfortunately, I still am too impatient as a reader. Maybe one day I should take my time to drink these verses slowly and attentively. Preferrably, in French.Until that day, this stunning Everyman edition will go with me - as its emblem promises.
Gloom, doom, and debauchery are opposite to who I am. So why am I so drawn to Baudelaire? His hundred ways of describing a corpse maybe. His obsession with hair. His love of the pale moon. It is all very strange, but it all seems necessary. Baudelaire's message that no one is perfect is just as applicable today as it was 150 years ago. Pick up this creepy, melancholy, decayed man and cry and laugh.
Everyman Library presents an excellent collection of translations from Les Fleur du Mal by Richard Howard, rounded out with a few prose poems translated by Michael Hamburger. For my money, George Dillon did the best rendering of "Lethe," but Howard's got more consistently mad game, coaxing music out of the blackest of Baudelaire's musings.
I know of no other poet who manages to pull off a love poem which goes into considerable gory detail about a rotting human corpse, complete with flies and hungry dog nearby. I'm not sure the translation I have shows him off to the best, but there can be no doubt that this strange, angst-ridden man wrote some shockingly odd poetry.
J'ai lu un extrait de "fleurs du mal" qui contenait que des poèmes d'amour de lui. Il me plaisait comment il utilise les verses, les mots pour créer un sentiment de passion, de peur, de désespérance. Génial. Je voudrais bien lire des autres poèmes de lui sur autres sujets.
I have read multiple interpretations of Baudelaire's book, and this seems to be the most authentic of them all. I used to have people joke with me because I would carry this edition with me everywhere I went and they referred to it as "my little bible."
my first book in french. it's a book for babies but there's still a naked lady on the cover.
"The Lake""Exotic Perfume""A Carcass""The Swan""An Albatross""Metamorphosis of the Vampyre"
4 1/2 stars
Master of the stink!
Baudelaire at his best
Stirring and somewhat disturbing. To read these chosen poems by Baudelaire is like viewing the sunset when it is at its most obscenely pink hue. He is not my favorite poet, but is worth sampling.
"I read Baudelaire," he grinned, "and I vomited"
Best poet evar
aaaa
Dark and twisted mirrors to our modern condition... Baudelaire deserves more respect than he receives.
No one else controls our buttons of angst, lost or squandered love, gut wrenching heartache, and all to excess. Not the first artist to unfurl on Absinthe but surely one of the best.
На диво мені сподобались ці маленькі історії. Незалежні, ємнісні, дуже оригінальні.
Baudelaire has been called the French Edgar Allan Poe. Although Poe's poetry tends to be at least know for being centered around loss and grief, Baudelaire's work instead deals with the wasteland of urban living during the middle of the 19th century.
Thus his themes deal with the creatures that inhabit the urban landscape-- the addicted and the damned, and against the backdrop of the shadow side of progress.
and cannot with some Fury's lust, to break your spirit and your heart,becomein your bed's inferno...Persephone!"
I don't think I am the first one to find this poet after reading "A Series of Unfortunate Events". However, I found myself never thinking of the Baudelaire children, but instead thinking of the man in his triumphs and his sorrows. A wonderful poet. He doesn't write poems. Baudelaire writes his soul.
