https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820073.Level_7
I read this book during the 1961 Berlin crisis while still in primary school.
Science fiction was already an addiction and I'd put away a book or two a day when school wasn't in session.
I recall being frightened by one headline about imminent war in particular.
On at least one occasion I recall having run to Mother, crying.Level 7 was probably obtained at the nearest library, out in East Dundee, Illinois.
It had everything: military stuff and politics in a science fiction wrapper--a sure thing.
This book is quiet similar to On the Beach and Alas, Babylon, both in the era in which they were published and the primary subject matter with which they deal: nuclear apocalypse.
While I personally found On the Beach totally unimpressive and a drag, Alas, Babylon became one of my favorite novels.
I found it scientifically more accurate than "Alas, Babylon" and "On The Beach".
Even people living in the bunker are not known by what might be their original names.
He lives in a bunker named "Level 7" with 500 people which is 4400 feet underground.
Level 7 is the tale of a military man who lives in a bunker 4,400 feet below the surface of the earth.
His job is to sit in a room and wait for the command to push a series of buttons which will unleash complete nuclear destruction on the earth.
There are two more people like him who wait in shifts for the command to come.
It's insanely memorable and I recommend it to everyone I know who likes nuclear war stories, but I had to subtract a star for its sexist, dated attitude towards women.
We follow the diary of a man who lives on Level 7 of a bunker where the best and brightest go in a kind of experiment to see how humans would endure extended life in isolation after a nuclear holocaust.
The details of day to day life are interesting enough, but the book's best aspect is the growing sense of dread that our protagonist will have to do his duty in case of war.
Once he does this simple, unremarkable act, his life in the bunker is, literally, without purpose, and he and the reader await the end of the war above.
I'm not sure where this book would rank on my list if I re-read it now - but it left an indelible mark on the mind of my twelve-year-old self. Aside from weeks of nightmares about an atomic war, it’s influenced my opinion of every other post-apocalyptic novel I’ve read since . . . usually to their detriment, as none of them ever hit me emotionally in quite the same way.
"I am the god who pushed the buttons," says the narrator, a dull nuclear weapons technician who happens to be the proximate cause of starting World War III. Later, he apologizes for this atypical and unprofessional lapse into poetry.
A deeply sarcastic dystopian novel regarding the stupidity of nuclear weapons, decisions behind and behaviour of people involved. However, I have found the characters and writing too dull to empathize with the enormity of the act.
Ever since reading "Survivor Type" by Stephen King at what was most likely too young of an age, I've been a sucker for the whole writing-a-diary-while-going-mad genre.
(view spoiler)[Then an unintentionally (surely) hilarious interlude once all the "buttons" are pushed and the world has been destroyed by nuclear weapons; both sides, us and our enemies, get on radios from their respective underground holes & yell at each other for starting things.
Luckily, towards the end, everyone starts dying as each level becomes contaminated with radiation.
Ero molto titubante ad affrontare questa lettura per varie ragioni.Anzitutto il tema trattato, la guerra nucleare, è importante e serio, per quanto troppo spesso dimenticato o banalizzato (che forse è peggio) negli ultimi decenni.
La scrittura in forma di diario, semplice e asciutta, è uno strumento perfetto attraverso cui Roshwald indaga e approfondisce, ancor più nella seconda parte del libro, l'aspetto psicologico dell'apocalisse sull'animo umano.Livello 7 è un libro splendido, senza una parola di troppo, imperdibile per gli appassionati di fantascienza.
E forse anche per tutti coloro che pensano che "l'apocalisse" sia quella propinataci negli ultimi anni, l'avventuretta di improbabili ragazzini unici sopravvissuti di un imprecisato virus che ha ucciso tutti gli adulti.Il mio voto: 4,5 stelle.
This book provides so much food for thought. It's incredible how humanity have to destroy what they have on the hope that they,will win something completely desnecessary.
Written at the start of the race for nuclear domination, in plain Cold War's mid-1950s, Mordecai Roshwald 's book was aimed to be a deterrent to atomic weapons and related politics.
The military in charge of the retaliation are specially selected and psychologically trained to be capable of "pressing the button", the physical act of igniting thousands of atomic-bomb-carrying rockets through the push of one button.
Unfortunately, the main anti-nuclear message is not compensated by either believable characters or reasonable writing.
The characters, besides being wooden in expression, lack believability - - always obeying orders although there is little stick, to the point where the reader can easily find the main actors as mere puppets.
It's a book that I've just re-read, which is a bit different.
With over 25 years since the first reading, however, my views and appreciation for the art intrinsic in the novel have changed a bit.First off, I should say that the copy I first read was without the preface found in my new copy.
For first time readers I'd recommend reading that preface after the whole of the novel.
It's rather heavy-handed in reinforcing the spin of the novel and rather ruins the ending for first-time readers.Level 7 is in diary format, the words and thoughts of push button officer X-127 as he lives in an underground shelter.
What I found most disturbing about this novel was not the hopelessness of the Level 7 dwellers, buried thousands of feet beneath the earth, then assigned to annihilate humanity and continue living for 500 years.
I suppose we've heard that story before and become dulled to the prospect of a fusion armageddon.
I was more repelled by the personalities of the individuals on level 7.
However, they also dislike the others within their own community, and are incapable of building real relationships on Level 7.This was a first novel, and lacks some polish and focus.
The book reads like a twisted version of Plato's Republic - a dissertation on the sort of society and people required to commit and survive atomic armageddon. It is a coldly logical social structure inhabited by emotionally stunted human beings, whose purpose is to be the push-button operators for otherwise fully-automated weaponry, and later to continue the species.Parts border on parody. From their deep-hole bunkers, politicians spit vitriol upon their enemy counterparts, even after such chest beating becomes pointless.As a warning and social statement, it is something of a relic.
This book starts off really good and grabs your attention right away, and it ends even better.
Its basically about a man who is in training and gets promoted and taken 4,300 feet below ground to do his job, with a select group of other people.
The book is written in a diary format as the main character enters level 7 and all the way until the end.
This is a must read if you ask me, great book...
well written and very easy to read, i liked the writing style and loved the story beginning to end.
Kind of wish I didn't read this book. Don't know what possessed me to keep reading it. Worst writing style I remember in a while. It is clear that the author was going for a kind of satire, setting up straw-man characters to poke fun at. Didn't work. Don't read it, really.
Pretentious twaddle disguised as lame science fiction.
Awesome book. Simply told, very powerful. I've been reading a whole lot of nuclear apocalypse-themed novels from the 50s and 60s lately and I reckon this takes the cake. It's beautifully written; the characters are distinctive and authentic despite being described so economically; the plot is brilliantly crafted and rings true; the psychology and sociology and politics and everything is just spot on. I really can't recommend it more highly. (I do recommend that you don't read the lengthy, scholarly introduction until you've read the book though, as it is full of spoilers.)
I just finished reading Wool, another post-apocalyptic book about life underground, and decided it was time to read Level 7 again.
It is the diary of a military man who has been assigned to Level 7, a subterranean command post/bomb shelter that has been built to endure for 500 years if need be.
The order comes for X-127, author of the diary, button-pusher by training, to push the buttons that will launch the nuclear arsenal of his country, which remains unnamed, against the enemy, another unnamed superpower.This book was written in 1959 while I was being taught to “duck and cover” in the event of a nuclear attack.
The story starts out as the solider x-127 and 250 other soldiers (men and women) head down deep into an underground bunker called Level 7.
Room enough for the button pushers, engineers and scientist to continue our way of life after a nuclear holocaust strikes.
The government has deemed the soldiers in the bunker the saviors of our way of life.
Instead the author portrays the war through the eyes of radar technicians and button pushers who only see blips on radar screens and are told via a loudspeaker on what buttons to push.
This is an older book, written during the Cold War between the U.S. and Russia.
As was common at that time, the story focuses on the absurdness of the concept of "Mutual Assured Destruction", wherein if two parties are engaging in nuclear war, both sides try to completely destroy the enemy even if they themselves have already been decimated.Level 7 revolves around a multi-level underground bunker that holds military personnel and civilians.
His job is to push the buttons that launch the nukes at the enemy if told to do so by his command.
I expected a much worse novel, to be honest.
Instead, this is the novel that happens after all the faux-conundrums get asked.
would you do it?" This is that novel.
Very clinical and scientific approach to the worst situation: mutual destruction via atomic weaponry.
Two things about this book (and author) that make this an extremely good read: the details about the underground facility are worked out carefully and consistently, the argumentation to make the scenarios robust and logical is very well-written.
Every aspect of this book is tightly wound around the horror of the atomic war.
The novel hardly seems dated, which is rather eerie.
Den här läste jag i skolan när vi läste engelska C - eller något i den stilen - istället för den egentligen ordinerade boken (som verkade svintråkig).
Det var alltså uppemot 10 år sedan jag läste den, men den gjorde ändå ett starkt intryck.
Det kan ha varit den första boken jag läst som handlade om Kärnvapenkriget.
Ömsesidig total förgörelse som hotbild mot världen är en aning passé idag av flera skäl - mer akuta känns problem med t.ex.
klimatförändringar eller antiobiotikaresistens - men jag vill nog ändå vidhålla att var och en som vill att kärnvapen ska existera är att betrakta som fiende till mänskligheten.
I struggled with whether to give this three or four stars. I settled on four because any novel written almost 55 years ago that feels this fresh and relevant is really quite remarkable. While reading, I found myself wishing that more detail had been given, and time devoted, to background and personal information about the characters, particularly the narrator. I suppose, however, that it was more effective to maintain the "nuclear war mentality" by not making it so much a human story as an inhumane one. Certainly thought provoking and worth reading.
This is more apocalyptic than "post": a story about a level 7 "soldier" "commanding" the nation's nuclear arsenal. By the quotes you'll understand he's neither really a soldier, nor is he really commanding anything. The above-ground war is all very abstract for him, but his life and personality feel just as abstract to us: he's just a number, no longer human. He's part of the machine.
Pretty straight-forward post-nuke serving of the everyman, the consummate serviceman, "cog-in-the-wheel." A pretty enjoyable treatment on the power of passivity, I think this might be a good preface to reading the Stranger (finish strong of course), both are heavy with the hand of hopelessness, resolved faith in the faithless, it's worth a read.
I'm stuck between 3 or 4 stars for this one. I liked the book, but the dismissive, dated treatment of women put me off, for example: "Perhaps women are more self-sufficient than men (provided they have men) and less affected by environment"
Grim and horrifying depiction of life in an underground bunker, waiting to unleash the missiles that will destroy the outside world, then doing just that and reaping the consequences. Written in first person diary form. Highly recommended.
The incredible stupidity of the human race, in 200 pages or less. Nuclear war destroys humanity, or humanity destroys humanity through nuclear war. Hugh Howie must have gotten his inspiration for Silo from Mordecai Roshwald. Just read it.
7 of 10 stars
