https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149397.The_Origin_of_German_Tragic_Drama
This is a difficult work even by Benjamin's standards.
It sets out Benjamin's notion of truth (something like a platonic materialism) and coordinates it with a theory of genre and a theory of history.
He (as Martin Heidegger might put it) sets truth to work - he tries to enact truth through literary criticism, to, as he puts it, burn away the husk of the work in order to reveal its truth, the potency of its history.
Benjamin may, at times, seem as if he is rambling (he alludes to this himself by considering his work a treatise founded on digression), but there is a nonetheless the consistency of a well-thought out work.
I’d have to know the period thoroughly well in order to respond to Benjamin’s claims, and I’m not sure, either, how critically prescient this text was in the 1920s; Benjamin’s interest in allegory and the symbol, for instance, resonates with strains of literary scholarship, but I can’t tell how path-breaking his ideas might have been (had this received wider circulation earlier, that is).
It’s not surprising that this – the equivalent of Benjamin’s dissertation – was passed between the literature and art history departments; I’d say it best resembles cultural studies or metaphysical philosophy, but the perfect disciplinary fit hasn’t been invented yet.
Para mim, estudioso da lógica matemática, este livro de Benjamin apresenta de forma bastante erudita o impressionante valor da filosofia para além da analítica.
Na medida em que a filosofia édeterminada por esse conceito de sistema, ela corre o perigo deacomodar-se num sincretismo que tenta capturar a verdadenuma rede estendida entre vários tipos de conhecimento, comose a verdade voasse de fora para dentro.
Mas o universalismoassim adquirido por essa filosofia não consegue alcançar aautoridade didática da doutrina.
Se a filosofia quiser perma-necer fiel à lei de sua forma, como representação da verdade enão como guia para o conhecimento, deve-se atribuir impor-tância ao exercício dessa forma, e não à sua antecipação, comosistema.
Two stars for writing.
The book itself is a mess with approximately three different threads of thought in a tangle.
There is no denying that Benjamin is widely read, but his thought is extremely confused and couched in impenetrable academic German that the translator obviously has trouble making sense of.
(In a way similar to Rosenzweig's Star of Redemption.) Anyone studying tragedy will have to read this book, because it is considered important (and it does make an important contribution establishing German Trauerspiel as something other than tragedy--animated by melancholy, not the tragic spirit).
The reason this book is difficult is because Benjamin was trying to articulate an art form and a period that was not yet seen in his time as constituting a distinct realm of its own: Mannerism. If you have troubles getting through, I therefore recommend reading this along with Wylie Sypher's "Four Stages of Renaissance Style: Transformations in Art and Literature, 1400-1700," and Arnold Hauser's "Mannerism: The Crisis of the Renaissance and the Origin of Modern Art."
Impenetrable text. Demands multiple readings. Seems to be inexhaustible in its capacity to yield truly astonishing insights about modernity, secularization, and counter-reformation theology. Unfortunately the majority of studies and commentaries written on it seem to focus (one-sidedly) on certain aspects instead of a thoroughgoing analysis of its other moments (i.e., Agamben obsesses over sovereignty, Pensky over melancholia).
Only read the Epistemo-Critical-Prologue for a paper I'm writing...and it was awesome. Especially pgs 47-48. My brain was buzzing and I heard bells ringing and whistles blowing. Any book that does that is instant 5 stars.
This one is rough going, but I like Benjamin in general. Illuminations is much more my speed.
A very difficult read, but interesting and influential. Also good for trying to re-teach yourself German.
ah, back to school. didn't quite finish it.
this book is actually about mannerism rather than baroque per se.
"There is strictly speaking only a single book that deserves to be called critical..."
Lisbon Book-Fair 2016.
Horrifying.
Tragic is the Truth...Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
Hooray for insightful, philosophical critics who are actually good writers!
Actually a very disturbing book. Early Benjamin is terrifying.
