https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18830.London_Fields
Now, on one level, the men and women are stereotypes representing a particular social and cultural class, but on another level Amis fills out his characters with such vivid, visceral descriptions, their eccentricities, their passions, their intense emotions and desires, in a way, I almost had the feeling I was reading an epic with the streets of London standing in for the walls of Troy – modern city life as the ultimate human blood sport.
By way of example, here is a scene after Nicola, posing as a social worker, barged uninvited into his cramped, dirty, pint-sized home and accused Keith’s wife and Keith of being too poor and too ignorant to properly care for their baby girl.
Maybe this qualifies as Too Much Information, but I think reading London Fields might have given me a urinary tract infection.Okay, so I've never read anything by Martin Amis, probably for the same reasons most of us haven't: yeah, remember that guy you knew who liked Martin Amis so much?
London Fields isn't someone you'd call for comfort during a 4am crisis, and you wouldn't talk about politics with him, or probably even about books, even though you both read.
There are better books out there than your friend London Fields.
And I know more about the tactics of darts (there are none), than I did before.Here's the sinus curve of my reading itinerary:Starting to read: Perfect first paragraph for a tired evening, after discarding any books looking remotely like intellectual struggle:"This is a true story but I can't believe it's really happening.
He needed his murderee."This is a VERY weird perspective, even for trained Humanities teachers who teach different angles, and personal biases for a living??" page 34 "If the author chooses a confusing narrator, the characters can't really be blamed for their strange appearance, right?
I don’t remember the whole Dickensian saga about why this was so, it was just, well, odd.We were talking about Kingsley Amis and Lucky Jim, probably because it was funny and involved drinking and bad behavior, when the Brit brother mentioned that Kingsley had a son, Martin, who wrote a book called, Dead Babies and that it was terrific.It was pretty good.
Talent is a small time, dim witted hood who’s adrift in anything beyond darts (“Darts, innit?”) and his seamy world.Throw in an unreliable narrator and “author” of the story, Samson Young, and you have the makings of corrosively entertaining read.Favorite character: The baby from Hell – Marmaduke.
An example of what I mean by this: there is a piece where in the space of just one page the author discusses femininity briefly, then switches the topic to black holes, then to a bunch of escape velocities, and right after that progresses to a discourse on sodomy and masturbation and just how sodomy pains and 'solaces' Nicola...
Many thanks to ⇨ this review⇦ for providing the inspiration! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh! Gosh.♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥I haven’t read a book this good in really, *really* long time.And we’re not talking about oh-I-ca
Out of every book I’ve read this month – shit, maybe even the YEAR – this book comes along and showed me that Amis still thinks all human beings are maggots burrowing in a rotten piece of meat*.
Amis is a bonafide genius.And I loved his maggot sandwich!* ~That rotten piece of meat is our very own earth!~
OUR HERO KEITH TALENTHe climbed up her body until she felt the scrawny sharpness of his knees on her shoulders.‘Shut your eyes and open your mouth.’
to you authors whose books I plan on reading after this one?They better be maggot sandwiches.
(So that's me out!)The upper middle class are toffs and go to public (= private) schools.
So, my problem with London Fields, which was exactly the same problem as I had with White Teeth, which I also gave up, even though both novels are very well written, is that I don't like what happens when upper middle class writers write about working class characters.
To upper middle class writers, the working class is always funny.
And you can go to university and lurch from the respectable working class to the lower middle class, as I did.
No way.’‘It was a stern test,’ said Thelonius deliberately, ‘of your darting character.’Bogdan said, ‘You responded to the – to the big-match atmosphere.’‘The choice of venue could have posed problems to a lesser player,’ said Dean.
It seemed to have an extra half-inch at either wing, like the mouth of the clowngirl in pornography.Nicola prowls about this novel like a embarrassing fantasy of Amis's, endlessly peeling off pairs of stockings, mulling over what kind of underwear to put on, having long contemplative baths, or thinking about masturbation.
It's a big problem, because Nicola is so pivotal to the plot and such a central character in the book.
Sam sees an opportunity to write the book he always dreamed of by documenting the events leading up to Nicola’s death, and all of this takes place with the millennium approaching and the world seemingly on the brink of political and environmental catastrophe.Nobody writes despicable people like Martin Amis…This is only the third book of his I’ve read (Money and Lionel Asbo: State of England being the other two.) but one thing that jumps out at me about all three is that Amis has this knack of creating these violent brutes and then making them somehow entertaining.
The plot is kind of flimsy at best - a woman wants to commit suicide by having another man murder her - but instead of writing an ordinary (reversed) mystery, Amis constructs an elaborate play on authority in narration, taking place on several different stages and forcing the reader to question: who is really in control here?The novel opens with the narrator, Samson Young, moving from New York to London, and swapping apartments with a renowned author, Mark Asprey (M.A.
This book just has it all.
I know I'm missing a bunch of things.
There's definitely a sort of plot, and a sort of ending, but those aren't among the bigger items I missed.
Anyway, if you like Martin Amis's other books, you'll probably like this one too.
If you don't like his other books, stay well clear, but I'm sure you got that already.
And if you've never read any Martin Amis, start with Money, which is similar but better, and then come back when you've finished.Oh, and it's far, FAR superior to Yellow Dog. No reasonable person would dispute that.
In this novel we have Nicola Six (her name a cognate of the guitarist for Motley Crue -- why?) as the femme, working her inscrutably intricate schemes around the lowlife Keith Talent and the schmuck Guy Clinch -- the fall guy.
But it's not about cash (though some of that does change hands), and most of the time it doesn't even seem to be about murder, despite Nicola's introduction as "the murderee." There's also a pomo unreliable narrator in the mix.Why are these people together in one book?
Keith Talent -- the book's most vivid, fascinating creation -- is the artist without self-consciousness.
People often say Martin Amis in the brilliant guy at the party you avoid, but Amis actually can roll a great joint and cut a fine rail. Also he knows secrets about the host that you'd have never suspected. His breath is terrible, though, and he keeps trying to kiss you.
Nicola Six, the book's anti-heroine, is scheming, femme fatale who curiously has no sense of self worth or any ounce of compassion.
Not only does she have no self worth she only seems to serve purpose when sexually manipulating the male characters and apparently desires her own violent demise.
Guy Clinch, the other central character in the book is lampooned throughout for his naive and incredulous pandering to Nicola's lies and deceptions.
The virtues of trust, compassion and affection are in his case a fatal flaw and sign of weakness and gullibility.The key question which drives the plot forward and which the whole book hinges on, with Amis taking over 400 pages to actually address, is who is Nicola's murderer?

I imagine your author looks in the mirror, flashes his teeth and nods, "I am a force unto myself!" before going about his day, drawling in American to his American wife, "I think I'd really like to hit America--no, no, not a book tour, just a bit of a buzz-around, take in the sites.
There is a song called "London Fields": http://youtube.com/watch?v=Xw_2j-bxR7YWritten, performed by one of the guys from Ministry, the masterminds of "Just One Fix" (video featuring William S.
UPDATE: The chapter entitled "The Doors of Deception" has hilarious slapstick, as Guy Clinch deals with his demonspawn, Marmaduke.
Quite possibly the worst book I have ever read. It may have had its moment but that moment was ages ago and now it is just an overlong dully but pretentiously written sexist piece of trash. Life is too short.
A highly engaging novel from the Dean of Bloated, Ponderous, Semi-Comic Cerebral Wank.Martin's novels are renowned for their "composite" qualities, i.e. he writes three separate books and mashes them together.
London Fields is a "profound" murder mystery, a scathing satire on hack writers (no surprises there), and a "state of Britain" epic all at once.The end result is as uneven, stylistically overindulgent and frustratingly dense as you could expect from Amis.
His prose style at times drives a ramrod through any writer you care to mention, and even at his flabbiest, he keeps your attention.Style is all you should ever really seek from Amis.
Nice.But the ending.
Oh, Martin!
The ending!

Composição da narrativa: Testosterona - 80%Progesterona - 20%Interesse despertado pela leitura: Aborrecimento - 70%Entusiasmo – 30%Expressões visíveis durante o processo: Atenção – 70%Dispersão – 30%Sons audíveis enquanto a sujeita olhava o livro: Bocejo - 90%Riso – 10%Empatia com as personagens: Bébé Marmaduke – 99%Restantes – 1%Desistênca a cerca de 60% do final. Nota: Marmaduke é um super bébé que morde, arranca olhos e bate, forte e feio, em todos que se aproximam. Um delírio!
Consider me dazzled, yet the very flurry of distorting mirrors and laser images reveal more about Mr. Amis and England than about The Novel (as it were) or The End -- in whatever eschatological capacity is extended to the present day punter.
The figure of Keith Talent is amazingly realized, aside from the slurs, the belches and the nudges, there is something monstrously vivid in his haunts (both senses) and struggles.
He may be Martin's Bloom.Nicola Six's machinations were as uncomfortable for the reader as for poor Guy Clinch and yet.
This is the lash as penitence and as encouragement.
Martin Amis suffers from the same syndrome as his father.
Kingsley Amis Syndrome.
A stellar first novel ala the Rachel Papers and then a steep decline into a babbling imbecile who more or less writes as a way to mentally masturbate and force you, the reader, to watch.
This book was little more than a bumbling, mumbling jumble of words.
Flat, meaningless characters with little redeeming qualities leave the reader feeling cheated.
Because the characters and the narrator are unlikeable, and we feel like we've been swindled by a master forger for all that.
The story is about a murder that is going to happen, that book is about 450 pages (21 hours) leading up to that event.
Nikki Six knows she is going to die and accepts that.
She has a fetish that she lets the narrator in on and in her own mind goes on to compare it as Cygnus X1, a binary star system in which one of the stars is now a black hole.
He interacts with the characters, and knows a murder is going to happen.
All in all, a good read although the characters rose above the story for me.
It had so much unrealized potential...
But there was nothing unrealized about this book.
Maybe it's that whole post-modern-you-get-to-know-everything-and-then-some kind of thing, but that doesn't usually bother me.
(LOVE DFW, etc.) It's that there was so much of each chapter that was not just superfluous, which I can sometimes take if it's entertaining and thought-provoking, but annoying.My new bumper sticker -- IRBRP (I'd Rather Be Reading Proust).
I know that's SO not fair here, but that's what I kept repeating to myself over and over in my head as I was reading this.Jessica, I thought I was with you.
I remember this from reading Money: you overstay your welcome, Martin.I was right there with you for 300, 350 pages, really, even the weird sex stuff the femme fatale fantasy which strikes me as a bit more of the inside of your head than I want to see, the whole nine yards.
But here's the thing, Martin, the thing is, you don't know when to quit.
And the book turns on you, an unexpected ending that made me read the book a second time after the first to see it with more narrative clarity--thematically, the reader and the protagonist suffer from the same limited omniscience—they are in it together; a positional challenge to the premise that either the author or the character is dead.
It sent me to the dictionary several times but it was a pleasure—I wanted to know what the word meant so that I wouldn’t loose a single sentence.By far my favorite book from Amis.
Martin Amis, you are such a tease!
Questo London fields invece mi ha molto deluso, dal titolo evocativo alla copertina della prima edizione italiana, che potevano evocare spazi aperti e malinconici o aperti e metropolitani, un po’ azzurri nella combinazione distanza/crepuscolo.Sulla quarta di copertina una quantità di testate autorevoli strillano al capolavoro: poiché il libro è del 1989, non mi resta che ipotizzare che sia invecchiato molto male.
L’autore pretende di costruire un metaromanzo abitato in primo luogo da uno scrittore che scrive questo romanzo e si rivolge direttamente all’eroina porno-soft, che si chiama Nicola Six (che in Scozia si pronuncia Sex).
Nicola Six non è una donna oggetto: strumentalizza gli altri.
Author has a great knowledge of vocabulary.
Some characters are a bit too slimy for me to want to spend 470( sometimes dense) pages with.
Also, the baby( marmaduke) is playfully portrayed as a little "hell raiser " but as time goes on this character is static and repetitive an loses his charm and Amis tries too hard to make him funny.
Having said that , Amis is an authors author with his amazing range of vocabulary, although this can make the read turbulent because I am constantly having to look up words and figure out which sense of the definitions are used.
I was never too clear on why she wanted this, but she's sort of the "mysterious other" that drives the book on; her motives are obscure and cloudy and I'm not sure Amis himself would be able to give you a straight answer.There's a weird digression about sodomy part way through that had me shaking my head and thinking, "tut, Martin, you don't really believe this shit, do you?" But then, "ah, I noticed you put this in your book....so what do you really believe?" is probably the absolute worst question you could ever pose to an author, and as the whole story is told in the first person by a visiting writer who is an unwitting part of Nicola Six's games, I wouldn't really consider his word as a stand-in for Amis's.
