https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63461.Terms_of_Endearment
novel which paints its heroine Aurora Greenway as a sassy matriarch deeply afraid of becoming a grandmother & too selfaware of her love life to stop and help all of her sisters in plight: mainly, her daughter and her maid, who suffer at the hands of stupid husbands.
different from the book.That said, I cannot help but LOVE both movie and book because they are PERFECT companion pieces.
The book has crisply-written, impeccable prose; a maudlin realism that contrast beautifully with sultry Aurora's signature snaps and retorts, & it has an eternal companion piece on celluloid that elevates it to a higher plane entirely.
The last 47 pages of this novel are nearly their own short story divorced from the rest of the book but are so great as to justify the indulgence.The story begins in 1962 with Mrs. Aurora Greenway visiting scolding advising her only child, a housewife named Emma Horton who in the opinion of her mother, has let her hair, figure, wardrobe and social standard fall by the wayside.
Aurora returns home to discover that Royce lost his temper with Rosie and hit the mother of his seven children."Well, dear, what a mess," she said.
Emma as an actual character was much flatter and not nearly as intriguing since the author wants to focus mainly on Aurora and Rosie.The mother-daughter bond just doesn’t come across as that convincing, and even the ending isn’t that sad in comparison to how it could have been if the story carried more realistic emotion.
I don’t read – or watch – simple for sad endings, but the journey was dull as well thanks to almost meaningless aims of Aurora and Rosie and lack of emotion and bonding.
So you are probably familiar with the author, Larry McMurtry’s, two characters Aurora Greenway and her daughter Emma.
Aurora, a well-to-do widow, “is the kind of woman who makes the whole world orbit around her, including a string of devoted suitors.” Emma, as her mother feels, married beneath her, which is a constant source of friction between them—the line that reads Emma’s husband "ain't fit to kick off a porch" in this book is a term of endearment because she loves her daughter.
Other variations from book to movie are that the novel is 75% about Aurora, which is okay since she is a very funny character.
Perhaps if I had not just pushed myself through Lolita, I might have pushed myself to finish this one because it was a group read, but alas I did not.
I have read McMurtry books that were wonderful, but this one left me not only flat, but thoroughly aggravated.
I did not care for Aurora, I felt rather inclined to strangle her just to shut her up.
Then it occurred to me that I COULD shut her up, all I had to do was close the book and not open it again.So, on to something else and certainly hoping it will be a winner.
It's very funny and, as is typical with a McMurtry book, I loved the characters very much.
The book is mostly about Aurora, with occasional forays into Emma's and some of Aurora's suitors' POVs. Aurora is a vibrant and mercurial character and her suitors were absolutely hilarious.
While it was funny to watch Aurora run rings around these guys I did feel sorry for them.
Everyone except the general who I never did warm to.While we were getting all of this fun about Aurora we also got some information about Emma and her marriage and friends.
His characters are so brilliant and they have such wonderful depth.
Witty, poignant, searing, heartbreaking. Loved it.
Terms of Endearment was marketed as a mother-daughter story but I think it was more about Aurora.
Aurora is 49 and has a daughter who at the opening of the story tells her she's pregnant.
This would usually be good news but to Aurora it's awful, I mean, how is she going to tell all her suiters this and still be a vixen?
And then there's Vernon who Aurora hits with her car when on a date with the General and then leaves with him in his new Cadillac.
Brooks took out a major character and didn't add a ton of the book to the movie and changed the backstory to Vernon.
I honestly didn't like it, but it intrigued me enough to want to know how it ends, so I did finish it, and gave it 1 star for that.I didn't feel like any of the characters were remotely likeable.
The women who were married were all in terrible marriages with abuse of some sort.
The fact that they never left of their own accord makes me wonder about the author's attitudes towards marrriage and towards women.
Aurora Greenway is one of the best characters ever written, in my eyes. She cracked me up. While she wasn't always a commendable friend, mother, lover or even person, she was human, flawed and still tried to do her best. The only reason this book doesn't get 5 stars is because I didn't see enough reaction from Aurora with what happend at the end (no spoilers!). I would have liked to see perhaps more remorse- I think I wanted to cry but instead the ending didn't make much of an impact on me.
I laughed, I cried. What a versatile writer!
I suppose if there is any uplifting quality in the novel it's that women form a social bond between each other that keeps them going, whereas these men stick around for purely individualistic selfish reasons.Like any existentialistic story that is about "ordinary" bourgeois people, they live in ignorance of each other due to some kind of social convention (in this case, under the figure of marriage) until one of them gets ill, lost or dies.
NOT an appropriate movie at all.I finally got around to reading the book this week.
I have read several of Larry McMurtry's novels and have always appreciated his dry wit, so I was hoping the book would be much better than the movie.
WAY too much Aurora, far too little Emma.
I would have loved to have seen Emma fleshed out a bit more, but maybe that says it all about Emma -- Aurora overshadowed her so much in her life that she was relegated to little more than a foot note.And Flap should be slapped.
Wasn't at all what I expected. I thought it was about the coming together and relationship between a mother and daughter when it's just about the similar screwed up lives of two old broads who happen to be mother & daughter. They're practically inconsequential to one another till the very end.
In terms of the relationship between mother (Aurora Greenaway) and daughter (Emma Horton), I suspect that many readers will either identify with, or certainly acknowledge the truthfulness, of the portrayal.
Emma is down-to-earth and kind, but even when she stands up to her mother she never has quite the same strength of character.Although there are many memorable characters in the novel, Aurora and Emma are at the heart of it.
The first two-thirds of the novel is devoted to Aurora's romantic whimsies over a short period of time while the last third is told from Emma's point of view - describing the inevitable decline of her marriage, and finally her death from cancer.
There's another user on Goodreads who rated this two stars because the "only good things about it was the superb writing and memorable characters." I agree with her and would also add great dialogue and give it two more stars making it four.
As memorable characters go Aurora Greenway is a diamond, almost vicious in her pragmatism, sharp-tongued and hilariously uncomfortable to be around.
So I find myself agreeing with that girl's review, we see the same things, we just rate them differently and just goes to show how difficult it actually is to recommend a book.
Still, Aurora Greenway is not be missed.
Terms of Endearment is another novel, aside from the last 40 pages, that bears no resemblance to the movie adaptation.
In the book, Aurora Greenway lives in a vortex of chaos, most of which she has taken on herself.
Facing the south-slope of midlife with her first grandchild on the way, Aurora is a living contradiction in terms.
Aurora has no existence outside of her companions, and she involves herself in the lives of others to make herself feel necessary.
Newsday says that Larry McMurtry can write convincingly from a woman's viewpoint and its so true.
He must have known some woman who confided endless details.
Very few men can do this.
I liked the movie better than the book.
There are details about many thing I would prefer not to know but he goes into them.
I heard the story about the man who drove onto the dance floor at a honky tonk but this was a different story.
I wonder if it happened more than once.This story is much too sad.
Its one of the saddest things you will ever read.
I liked it more and more as it went on, but I hated Aurora for a huge chunk of the book. I probably would've liked it more if she hadn't been so much the focus of the story. McMurtry is a great writer and this book won't put me off from reading more of his novels.
This is one of those rare times, when I love the movie more than the book.
I didn't remember that McMurty had written this novel, but wanted to read it because I loved Lonesome Dove.
This is an altogether different book which focuses on Aurora, a force of nature, an impossibly self-centered widow who has multiple suitors wishing to marry her.
These suitors are very different from one another but each trying to win over Aurora who wants them all but doesn't want any of them.
Emma’s pregnancy is all about Aurora, as is everything.
Upon learning of Emma’s pregnancy, Aurora bursts into tears, "What man would want a grandmother?
Rosie is as lovable as Aurora.
Terms of Endearment takes place in modern Houston, TX and though there are both male and female leads, women characters are highlighted in this book.
In the books’ preface McMurty states, “Though often praised for my insights into women, I’m still far from sure that I know what women are like; but if my hunches are anywhere near accurate, and I’m not idealizing her, then Emma is what women are at their best.” Aurora is the widowed mother of newly married and pregnant Emma, and as the story begins they are having a conversation about marriage.
Spoiler alert--there is no Garrett Breedlove character in the book.
Jack Nicholson is in the photos, but he and his character are missing in the real story.
In the movie, Aurora appears to actually lose herself to the astronaut neighbor.
Middle-aged widow, Aurora, maintains the command position in all her relationships.
The plot revolves around her every day life and whims, until the final section when Emma, her daughter breaks away into her own life.The real star is McMurty's skill as a writer and storyteller.
He'a created in Aurora Greenway a sun the other characters orbit around.
I kept waiting for the plot to happen.The description points out that the author has created two women whom MOVIEGOERS everywhere fell in love with.
Aurora Greenway is the main character here, a mature woman with several gentleman 'callers' who are all convinced they are in love with her.
Emma is not a strong character, but according to the afterword, the author views her as his ideal view of a woman.
It really felt weird and not like a part of the same story.
Like there just had to be some way to wrap the story up, and this was it.I gave this a 3 because I enjoyed Aurora so much.
This book is almost an exact replica of my relationship with my own Mother and myself.
To me to really, love a book I must relate personally on some level.
Not that I'll have to have lived like the characters, but more so that I have felt deeply what the characters themselves are expressing.This is also on my list of most favorite books ever!!Bye for now,Susan
I did not like it that much.
The only good things about it was the superb writing and the memorable characters.
However, I did not really like the plot.
I got a feeling that this was supposed to be a mother-daughter book but it really wasn't.
It was actually a mother and her suitors, and daughter and her love affairs.
The ending was actually pretty good but I think the author wasted a lot of pages for that.
The beginning was too detailed and silly while the ending was too rushed and dramatic.
No balance for this book.
If you have seen the movie, you know how special it was and you don't really need the story recapped. Just let me say that even though the movie was beautifully done, the book is still better and this is one you should grab and read, however keep a box of tissues close by. This author has so many amazing novels and readers should be glad for his accomplishments and amazing stories.
All I can say is that it must have taken a screenwriter of heroic proportions to see an Oscar-winning movie from this novel. If I had never seen the movie, I wouldn't have made it as far as I did (I got one-third through the book before I gave up). I did skip to the end to find out that Emma's last days in the movie were portrayed fairly true to the book.
I thought this book was manipulative aiming at wringing every possible tear out of the reader.
Aurora Greenway and her daughter are the subjects of this tale, but Emma (the daughter)is mostly invisible; standing in the huge and flamboyant shadow cast by her Mother.
In her own quieter way, Emma holds her own and in ways is as intrigued by her Mother's outrageous entitlement as all the other people Aurora shuffles in and out of her kitchen.
I would classify "Terms" as an action-adventure and a divine comedy until the last 20 pages when Emma's true nobility is revealed.
