https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1602172.La_sorci_re_rousse
Uma das primeiras obras de Fitzgerald e muito ao estilo dele sem final feliz. Duas pequenas histórias de desilusão com a vida e de uma juventude desperdiçada e de chama apagada. Estou a gostar cada vez mais de ler escritores do início do século XX.
Life presents us every now and then with a few chances to enjoy, to let go and to rebel. In short, to live. You either grab the chance or lead an ordinary dull life albeit safe. Fitzgerald sums it up "He had angered Providence by resisting too many temptations. There was nothing left but heaven, where he will meet only those who, like him, had wasted earth." A story about missed chances, ageing and regret. Beautiful and sad.
Very good and so sad!
Un petit livre en demi teinte par l'auteur de Gatsby le magnifique avec un côté fantastique pas a mon goût, bref incomparable à son chef-d'oeuvre
Малка, чаровна, кокетна, дива, игрива и много щура. За живота, който понякога ни предлага хиляди възможности, но е толкова забързан, че докато се чудим и той отлетял. За решенията и страховете, които имаме когато сме млади и за закъснелите изводи, когато животът вече почти ни е изпреварил и времето не стига.
Scott Fitzgerald nous raconte, de son ton léger et ironique, les histoires pessimistes et lugubres dans « La coupe de cristal taillé » et « la Sorcière rousse ».
Dans la première nouvelle, la ravissante Evie Piper se voit offrir par un amant éconduit une coupe de cristal taillé aussi belle, aussi dure et aussi vide que l’est la jeune femme.
Vision de joie, de spontanéité et d’aventure, la jeune femme contraste avec le caractère terne de Merlin qui s’enferme progressivement dans une routine sécuritaire bâtie sur les décombres de ses rêves et de ses ambitions d’antan.
Not the best. About missed chances and generally kind of sad
Annoying, depressing, mostly pointless and unreliable.If it wasn't such a short book, I would never finish it.Did I mention ANNOYING?A waste of time.
meh
One day Caroline enters the bookstore with several other men, and proceeds to perform some preposterous acts, which cause much damage to the store.
He has come to the conclusion that "They are the sort of people for whom life was ordered and that something very grand and brave and beautiful would soon happen to them if they were docile and obedient to their rightful superiors and kept away from pleasures." Caroline appears in a crimson limousine, sees Merlin, Olive and Arthur, and smiles to them.
Olive is aghast with "that woman".Merlin last encounters Caroline when he is 65 years and she enters his bookstore.
J'ai trouvé le style d'écriture très différent comparé à Gatsby j'ai notamment eu plus de mal à comprendre certaines phrases. Les personnages sont moins attachant. C'est pourquoi je suis très déçu de cette nouvelle.
Title: O Russet WitchSeries: - Author: F.
Scott FitzgeraldGenre: Classics Rating: 2.5 starsThis story is somewhat sad, but explains that love is indeed blind.
Merlin Grainger is in love with his neighbour Caroline, but apart from some chance meetings throughout their lives they are strangers.
Merlin carries on with his life, marries Olive and has a child, works his days away at the Moonlight Quill bookstore, until he eventually learns the truth about the mysterious and alluring Caroline: she is the notorious Alicia Dare.
Caroline/ Alicia Dare is a most interesting character, which I wish was explored more in the story.
My edition has a brief word from Scott before this story, and it seems that he was okay with a lukewarm reception of it. It feels like he was playing with something here, whether it was style or genre, though, I'm not sure. Maybe he simply had some feelings he wanted to get out, and this story let him do it. Either way, this really only for those dedicated Fitzgerald fans, and I would advise anyone unfamiliar with Scott not to start here. It'll surely turn you off to his work as a whole.
j'ai préféré la première nouvelle la coupe de cristal taillé
Ce livre est très agréable et se lit trop vite. J'apprécie le style et l'univers de Fitzgerald.
