https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150373.Women_Without_Men
Women without men (Syracuse: Syracuse university Press, 1998), Shahrnush Parsipurتاریخ نخستیم خوانش: ماه مارس سال 1989 میلادیعنوان: زنان بدون مردان؛ نویسنده: شهرنوش پارسی پور؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر قطره، 1368، در 140 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1368؛ چاپ دیگر: سوئد، باران، 1370، در 140 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تورنتو، افرا: پگاه، 1378، در 140 ص، شابک: 1894256042؛ دستهایم را در باغچه میکارم؛ ... داستان برداشتی از شعر «وهم سبز» فروغ است (و البته جایی نیز اشارتی دارد)... ؛ لابد همه میدانند که بانوی کارگردان شیرین نشاط فیلمی ا
داستان برداشتی از شعر «وهم سبز» فروغ است (و البته جایی نیز اشارتی دارد)...
؛ لابد همه میدانند که بانوی کارگردان شیرین نشاط فیلمی از همین کتاب ساخته؛ و برنده جایزه شیر نقره ای ونیز نیز شده.
نقل از کتاب حرفهای مونس: «به فکر من زده بود بروم به هند و چین و ماچین، دنیا را ببینم.
خودم همه چیز را بفهمم و درک کنم و هی ننشینم تا دیگران برایم بگویند ال است و بل است و گولم بزنند و خرم کنند و عمرم به سر برود و به اندازه یک گاو نفهمیده باشم.
البته میگویند خوشبخت آنکه کره خر آمد و الاغ رفت...» پایان نقل.
I'm averaging 2.666 on club-related ratings here, which incidentally makes me happy because 666, but primarily makes me feel like Asshole McChoosy-pants.
I hope the candidates I put forward all end up middling-to-sucky, or I'm sure going to look like a real taste snob.
I double-swear I like books.
And I should not be hearing electronica in my head when I am contemplating terrible things like forceful religious indoctrination, socioeconomic oppression, and sexual violence/servitude.I feel bad saying all this because it was phenomenally brave of Shahrnush Parsipur to even write, let alone publish this book in Iran in the first place, but book report honesty is the best policy.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب از 15 داستان تشکیل شده که برخی از آنها به یکدیگر مرتبط هستند و داستان ها بیشتر حول محورِ «پردۀ بکارت» در زنان و دل نگرانی هایِ آنها در این مورد، میچرخد... به انتخاب قسمتهایی را برایِ شما عزیزان در زیر مینویسم--------------------------------------------چه میشد اگر مهدخت هزار دست داشت و هفته ایی پانصد بلوز میبافت؟؟ با هر دو دست یک دانه، هزار دست پانصد دانه.... ولی خوب آدم که پانصد دست نمیتواند داشته باشد، آنهم مهدخت که زمستان را دوست داشت... حالا اگر قرار باشد آدم هزار عد
فائزه هم برایِ دلبری به امیرخان گفت: خوب کردی و دوتایی مونس را در باغچه خاک کردند!!...
خانم باجی به فائزه گفت: راهِ غلبه بر این عشق این است که 7 شب، پا برهنه، 7 بار و 7 قدم به طرفِ قبله بروی!!!
بعد پاهایت را بشوری و در رختخواب هم که میخوابی، پاهایت را از زیر لحاف بیرون بگذاری‎فائزه رفت که طلسم را در باغچه خاک کند، دید که مونس هنوز زنده است*******************‎گلچهره گفت: وقتی یک زن یائسه میشود، احساساتش هم فرق میکند؟!
A novel can be feminist without all its characters being feminists, strong women, and perfect all the time.
It reads like a high school book report plagiarised from wikipedia, including some details of the author's life and works, some very obvious interpretations of this book.Excerpt: Mahdokht's heart stopped.
He let out a squeal and tried to disentangle himself from the embrace of the girl by hitting her in the face with one hand and reaching with the other for Mahdokht, who rushed out of the greenhouse and wandered aimlessly in the courtyard, fraught with nausea.
Re-read - still a wonderful bookFor the past few years, I have traveled to Washington DC and stayed a few days just to visit the museums. Plus, I live in Philly, so it’s like a two hour train trip. I’ve learned that the smaller Smithsonian tends to have the more interesting exhibits. I discovered a love for Whistler’s etchings at the Freer, and at the Hirshorn, I discovered that I do like some modern art and video installations. It was at the Hirshorn last summer that I heard of this book. Last
Last summer, the museum had a major exhibit of Shirin Neshat’s work, and if you are like I was at the time, you are going who.
When one reads Women without Men, it is easy to understand why Parsipur is living in exile.
Parsipur relates the lives of different women from different levels of society who came together briefly in a garden before going their separate ways.
What happens to Munis and her eventual fate in many ways is the heart of the novel (and no surprise that part of the arc was the clip from the film shown in the Neshat exhibit).
كتاب عجيبى بود.
رو توى يك فضاى واقعى رها كرده بود، اما از اون عجيب تر كه تك تك جملاتش قابل باور بودند.
انگار ما با نويسنده، شوخى و زبان رمزى خودمون رو داريم و اون كه بيان ميكنه، ما متوجه ميشيم و پنهانى لبخند ميزنيم، چون اين چيزيه فقط بين ما.بيشترين مونولوگى كه توى فكر ميگذشت، در نيمه اول كتاب اين بود "چقدر خوشبختم كه توى اين عصر به دنيا اومدم.
چه بدبخت بودند اون زن ها و دخترها.
چه بدبخت بودند.
چه از بدبختى خودشون راضى بودن ."بقيه كتاب رو هم بلعيدم، چون خيلى ساده خوان و جالب بود.
It’s an odd novel, because it moves in so many ways, and the ending may seem somewhat disappointing or anticlimactic, but there’s a strength to it, an insistence that women are allowed to become their own people, to talk about sex and virginity and politics.
Each character present a different story, each needing the same and separate things, each getting their own ending, and the result is a complex, strange and wondrous novel.
It’s very different from the video installating – the art piece based on the book – that I’ve seen.
"Caută întunericul, începutul, adâncurile. Când vei ajunge în adâncul adâncurilor, vei găsi lumina în toată strălucirea ei, în propriile mâini, alături de tine. Asta înseamnă să devii om."
کتاب من را به یاد قطعه ای از فروغ فرخزاد انداخت، چرا؟بخوانید لذت ببرید شاید با من هم عقیده شدیددست هایم را در باغچه می کارم سبز خواهم شد می دانم می دانم و پرستو ها در گودی انگشتان جوهریمتخم خواهند گذاشت...
لینک دانلود این کتاب را در گروه "دانلود کتابهای نایاب" گذاشتهام و دوستان میتوانند به راحتی دانلودش کنند
لینک دانلود این کتاب را در گروه "دانلود کتاب‌های نایاب" گذاشته‌ام و دوستان می‌توانند به راحتی دانلودش کنند
یک سری داستان که عموما حول پرده بکارت زنان می چرخه، یه رگه هایی از رئالیسم جادویی توش بود اما واقعیت و خیال اون چنان در هم تنیده نبود و می شد مرز بینشون رو قشنگ مشاهده کرد.کم حجم و روونه داستان و زیاد وقتی ازتون نمی گیره خوندنش.
اما جدا از اینکه روش این نسخه پیچی درست است یا نه (چیزی که زن ها باید درمورد آن نظر دهند) بنظرم فرم (داستان و نثر بی مزه آن) و محتوای نسخه (اینکه بکارت را بزرگترین مسئله زن ایرانی گرفته) اصلا جالب نیستوقتی داستان مونس را میخواندم تقریبا مطمئن شدم که کتاب را اشتباه دانلود کرده ام و این متن بی مزه نمیتواند رمان پارسی پور باشد یا حتی شاید این نسخه تقلبی را گذاشته اند تا او را بدنام کنند!...
اما این چیزی از ناچیز بودن کتاب کم نمی کند: بهرحال هنر داستان باید تاثیرگذاری (هم) باشدنمیتوان یک اسم «رئالیسم جادویی» روی اثر گذاشت و هر کنش و واکنش و ربط و رابطه بی معنی (به قول دوستان «باسمه ای»!) در آن چپاندداستان برداشتی کامل از شعر «وهم سبز» فروغ است (و البته جایی اشارتی به آن هم دارد)...
O cărțulie scrisă scurt și la subiect. Fără descrieri tumultoase, fără alte detalii care ar îngreuna cumva lectura acestei cărți. Cinci femei care nu mai vor să îndure sistemul patriarhal al societății în care își duc traiul. Cinci femei care pleacă din familiile lor și se stabilesc într-o casă. Fiecare cu povestea ei de viață, fiecare cu metehnele ei. O carte care îmbină cu succes realismul magic cu probleme femeilor musulmane. Mă așteptam la ceva mai coerent și laconic, dar și ce am citit a fost bine.
Interesantă, mă bucur că am avut ocazia de a o citi!
She dies and then returns to life and then is murdered by her brother.
Then she and the gardener go up in a puff of smoke.Farrokhlaqa is the most understandable of all the characters.
She becomes a widow, wants more out of life, tries her hand at different things and finally marries a powerful man and the two achieve things together.
Then, there is the gardener (a man) who helps these women.Don't ask me what it all meant.
Maybe they don't want women becoming trees or going up in smoke or whatever.
Thankfully, the afterward that accompanied the edition of the novel that I read was most useful when tackling the latter task.Women Without Men is unlike any other text I have read, and yet it's brevity makes it seem so light and simple, as though the story came in on a gust of wind and was then absorbed into the air before one could even process it.
Perhaps that's my attempt at waxing poetic, nonetheless, Women Without Men is well worth the read--if not because of the story itself, than because of the courage it took (and continues to take) to be the author of such a controversial and socially provocative novel.
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu ..................................Mi-a plăcut în mod deosebit joaca lui Parsipur cu elemente specifice realismului magic. Grădina doamnei Farrokhlaghá mi-a adus aminte de Rushdie și a sa Seducătoare din Florența. Este adevărat că Parsipur nu ajunge la nivelul lui Rushdie, dar are potențial. Felul în care aranjează destinele personajelor, așezarea deznodământului într-un plan fantastic este, categoric, punctul forte al volumului. Decizia
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu
  ..................................Mi-a plăcut în mod deosebit joaca lui Parsipur cu elemente specifice realismului magic. Grădina doamnei Farrokhlaghá mi-a adus aminte de Rushdie și a sa Seducătoare din Florența. Este adevărat că Parsipur nu ajunge la nivelul lui Rushdie, dar are potențial. Felul în care aranjează destinele personajelor, așezarea deznodământului într-un plan fantastic este, categoric, punctul forte al volumului. Decizia de a insera detalii din cultura persană în evenimentele care duc personajele spre soluționarea intrigii oferă cititorului indicii cu privire la mesajul subliminal pe care Parsipur vrea să-l transmită....................................

Atenția mi-a fost și mai mult stârnită de un citat de pe coperta IV dintr-o recenzie a celor de la Publishers Weekly: „ […]Femei fără bărbați e și o formă de protest împotriva discriminării femeii în tradiția persană.” – una din temele mele preferate când vine vorba de acest gen de literatură.Shahrnush Parsipur reunește în cartea sa destinele a cinci femei care ajung să trăiască împreună într-o grădină magică (prin urmare, romanul are și câteva elemente fantastice – ajung imediat și la asta).
قصه زنهاییست که در هر بخش به طور جداگانه بخش تلخی از زندگیشان را میخوانیممهدختی که در باغ کرج درخت میشودفائزه ای که عاشق امیر است و با زن برادرش رقابت آشپزی دارد.مونس پیر دختر ساده ای که دوبار میمیرد و زنده میشود و قدرت خواندن ذهنها را دارد.فاحشه ای که مردان همبسترش را بی سر میدید.فرخ لقای میانسال زیبا که شوهرش را غیر عمد میکشد.همه اینها در آخر به کرج میروندکه چه؟ که سرنوشتشان نه مثل هم که در کنار هم رقم بخورد؟خانم پارسی پور به زن از چند بعد و در قالب چند زندگی نگاه میکند عریانش میکند تفسیرش میکند.
Parsipur deals with the limited choices women have in Iran, the violence they face for being raped, rebellious, for breaking even in small ways with the constrictive norm.
The novella cannot of course take these issues head-on and so does so in a wildly imaginative way.
The great Iranian filmmaker, Shirin Neshat (I hope I have her name right), has made the novel into a film, with mixed results (from what I've read; I've not yet seen it).
نميتونم باور كنم كارگردان نسبتا مطرحى از اين كتاب فيلمى بسازدداستان بى سر وته،، واقعا نتونستم بآهاش ارتباط برقرار كنم
It's a story weaved from the strange dreams of women, and when living in an oppressed society, it's inevitable that you will have feminist themes seeping through and watering those dreams.
But it's subtle and this was apparently disappointing for some.
As a final note, I finished this book at night on the 7th of August, closed it and went to sleep, and in the next morning, it felt like hell broke loose for me and brought me face to face with many of the issues that women face in my own society, in Eastern Europe.
Women without men is an impossibility as long as women are defined first and foremost by their relationships to men, which obviously is no less true given the setting of the novel, but hardly unique to it either.Women Without Men tell the story of a half-dozen women circling this issue while rarely able to confront it head-on - even if they do, even if they kill or die or return from death with the power to read minds or turn into a tree (yes, it's that kind of novel) there's always invisible barriers both within and without, a limit to the world in which they're allowed to exist.
Świetne!
They include a wealthy middle-class wife and a prostitute.Parsipur's stories involve the challenges women face in trying to live without men in Iran, featuring a debate about whether virginity is a curtain or a hole, rape, and the enforcement of notions of honour by women as well as men, as well as more everyday concerns.
Women Without Men offers a storyteller's entertainment and a sampling of women's lives in Iran in the 1980s.
Parsipur went into exile in the United States in 1994, five years after Women Without Men was published, and banned, in Iran.
It was difficult to read at times because of the stark violence and discrimination against women.
This was made very clear to me when I read the stories of these five women.
The magical realism in this novel is amazing and works so well with the plot and the characters.
The change is really a metamorphosis for a lot of the characters.
There's the promise of freedom and liberation from a repressed world where women are chained not only to men but to the domestic sphere.
I am so happy that Women Without Men was translated into English.
زنان بدون مردان كاري متفاوت در آثار پارسي پور است. اين داستان را اولين بار دوران دانشجويي خواندم. بيش از ده سال قبل. هنوز لحظه به لحظه اش را به خاطر دارم و عجيب اين كه خواندن اين كتاب جرقه نوشتن داستاني را زد كه هنوز منتشرش نكرده ام:... و قابيل هم بود
زنان بدون مردان كاري متفاوت در آثار پارسي پور است. اين داستان را اولين بار دوران دانشجويي خواندم. بيش از ده سال قبل. هنوز لحظه به لحظه اش را به خاطر دارم و عجيب اين كه خواندن اين كتاب جرقه نوشتن داستاني را زد كه هنوز منتشرش نكرده ام:‌... و قابيل هم بود
This reminded me of Herta Muller's writing - the same sense of the truth being hidden inside layers of allegory - not surprising since they are both writing out of a culture of censorship and oppression. However, I found Parsipur's allegories easier to understand.
با فیلمش خیلی تفاوت داشت...نمیدونم چطور از روش ساخته شده!؟!؟! ولی هم فیلمش خوب بود و هم کتابش....البته فیلمو بیشتر دوس دارم!
