https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11502.The_Gift_of_Asher_Lev
In Hasidic Judaism it is punctillious behaviour toward others and towards the world - not belief, not intent, not doctrinal thought - which is the sign and carrier of one’s religion and therefore of one's self, one’s family, one’s society, one’s world.Judaism in other words, not Ancient Greece, nor medieval Christianity is the origin of what has come to be known as ‘virtue ethics’, the idea that one can act oneself into a better mode of being.
That is to say, the spiritual force of redemption is present in human beings as a divine gift of creation which is in a way returned in kind when it is acted upon.
I finished this book before I even had time to add it to my "Currently Reading" list. There will never be enough Potok in my life.
When I started this installment from Mr. Potok, the room where I read it was naturally dry.Line by line, chapter by chapter, I survived the frissons of emotion.
By the end of the tale, I became sober in my instability and I allowed the sorrow that has always resided uncomfortably within, to flow with abandon.We have read a few authors in his phalanx, whose pens not only release ink and words, but somehow create an internal disturbance, even in a safe environment while engaged in a leisurely activity.Ab initio, Chaim Potok has deeply affected my world.
There need not be an answer to every question asked.
In fact, most answers reveal little, and even then, they are suspect.
He is the father of two children and happily married, spending his days painting in southern France before a family tragedy calls him and his family back to Brooklyn.This book was similar to My Name is Asher Lev in terms of the writing.
It had some gorgeous prose and but was also quite accessible.Unlike My Name is Asher Lev, there is no tension in this book between Asher's art and the Ladover community (save for the occasional "How could you create those paintings" comments that popped up, though there were just as many supportive voices as well).
A wonderful complex novel about individuality vs the community, with religion, art, family and depression all thrown in the mix. That, and mesmerising prose. Potok, you legend.
I LOVED this book.
I think everyone one who has read My Name is Asher Lev should read this book.
It took me all summer to read, basically because it is the kind of book that you linger over.
I am sure one of the reasons I love this book is because as an art historian, I am interested in understanding Asher's art and his quest to make it meaningful.
I think though, in a broader sense, Asher's situation applies to anyone seeking to foster creativity and beauty in their lives and come to terms with day-to-day spirituality.
He must have been much like Asher, able to have a complete understanding of all levels of living the religion and at the same time, able to express the obvious pitfalls and problems with such a conservative way of thinking and living life.
I'm almost thinking maybe he was trying to get his people to become a bit more understanding and to be careful how they judge and handle their own who step outside of the box.
A large portion of the book is also flashbacks (which in the case of his wife are sometimes pretty interesting and touching--her character is a good new one to get to know) or else Asher's intuition about the future.
the future never comes, even at the end of the book.
It didn't work well.The bright spots were the wonderful bits of Jewish wisdom and theology that were discussed at a few points in the book, the new characters of Asher's young family, and a few times the talk about art had some good points.
Summary: Asher Lev, exiled from a Brooklyn Hasidic community over a scandalous artwork portraying crucifixion, returns after twenty years with his family for the funeral of his uncle, only to find that he is being called upon to make a far greater sacrifice than the pain of exile.I first became acquainted with the work of Chaim Potok in the 1980's.
He and his family return to Brooklyn for the funeral, and a reunion with parents and a community he hadn't seen in years.At the funeral, attended by thousands, because Yitzchok had been involved extensively in efforts to fund the Ladover movement, the Rebbe makes a cryptic remark, a kind of riddle, than runs through the book.
He never wrote that memoir.The Gift of Asher Lev finds Asher to be a world-renowned artist, living in France with his wife—a nice Jewish girl—and two kids.
He returns to France, while his family stays in Brooklyn.
Asher wonders to himself, as he ponders his gift, whether the Rebbe counted “on the helpless self-centeredness of the artist’s soul.”That’s about my yearly quota for plot summary.When I first started reading this sequel, I wanted to write about anger.
Asher, take the family back to France or stay in Brooklyn with them.
It was nice seeing what happened after the first Asher Lev book. In my opinion, this book wasn't as good as the first. The biggest issue I had was that Asher Lev didn't fight more to let his son be able to choose his own path since that is what he himself had to do. That being said I understand that this would be a great honor for the family and it would be great for Asher to gain the affection that he lost from the Hasidic community.
Well crafted and satisfying but not quite as engaging as his earlier work, "My Name is Asher Lev" which was one of my all-time favorite books when I read it as a teenager. The subject of being Jewish in today's world is always thought-provoking and brings up so many memories and issues close to my heart that anything by Chaim Potok is a treasure.
This is a reread. I've been so desperate for good books this winter and have read so few and this is a good book. This is full of oh so many religious themes, and the question of what we give and what we hold back. I always find Jewish thinking although different from my own, a kind of parallel universe where the logic makes sense. I'm glad to enter again into a world of these questions.
My Name is Asher Lev covered Lev’s entire life from childhood until young adulthood at 25, a tumultuous time; The Gift of Asher Lev covers a 6 month period of time at age 45.
There are a few sentences in the book that make it very clear that the Rebbe and therefore the entire community that follows him, slavishly, is not a “liberal”; Asher’s father says, “We are not going to vote for the homosexuals.
It is clear that males are more important than females, no matter how much daughters are loved.While it does not have the glamor of the first book, The Gift of Asher Lev is yet another thoughtful--and powerful--book from Potok.
Toward the end, the main character starts exhibiting all these physical symptoms, and I thought he was going to take to his bed as he so often did in the first book; people ask him if he's OK and tell him he looks ill, but not even that is taken to a point of resolution.The Rebbe is presented this time as a sort of Messiah figure; why then is he spoken of "calling in favours" as if he were some sort of Mafia don?
I first read Chaim Potok's books when I was 13 and I received The Chosen and My Name is Asher Lev from my Hebrew school teacher as a bat mitzvah present.
As an individual and an artist, Asher Lev needs to paint what his imagination demands, but as an observant Jew, he holds a religious sense of the world that is just as much a part of him as his art.
Religious Jews asked him why he could not use the binding of Isaac as an image, but for Lev the binding of Isaac is not a representation of the kind of suffering he needs to express artistically.
My favorite book of all time is My Name Is Asher Lev. I adore it.
It speaks truth into my life every time I read it.The Gift of Asher Lev is also a life-giving book to me.
I adore Chaim Potok's writing, and I appreciate the way he continues the story of Asher's life in this book.
It may be over dramatic, but I feel that The Gift completes My Name in the way Asher speaks of things needing to be completed.
I certainly experience this when reading My Name Is Asher Lev.These books return me to my self.
Potok wrote this book 5 years after his last book.
He should have stayed in retirement.
Aside of being overly descriptive in meaningless scenery, Potoks book is obsessed with Art, yet never developed anything.
I felt that no part of the story was settled and was an incredible waste of my time.
Examples are his uncles art collection.
"Oh. Just keep it in storage"??
It's destroying his family and just keep it in storage???
Asher lev gave a picture to his son as a gift.
And that was supposed to be a touching moment???
A freaking drawing on paper.
Read this after recently rereading My Name is Asher Lev. This book is also challenging but in the end more satisfying, I think. I'm still uncomfortable with it, but was completely mesmerized by this story. I just could not put it down. One of the most compelling novels I've read. I knew the ending--it seemed inescapable throughout most of the book. Stunning and heartbreaking with a tiny winking light of hope peeking through. It was like the entire world changed colors as I read this book.
I really loved these two books but like many others felt let down with the rushed ending. You know what is going to happen in the end but more could definitely have been added...some resolutions of the mind and relationships of Asher. This book made me think about compromise for the good of all involved...The need for acceptance even though you don't condone the actions. A great story of the need for balance in all areas of life and to forgive and love unconditionaly.
I am always skeptical about sequels, but this one was amazing. I would say I liked this one even better than My name is Asher Lev. Asher's a bit older and has a family in this one, so his issues are different. There is a mystery woven throughout this novel pertaining to a riddle that the rabbi shares at Asher's uncle's death. A really great book. Highly recommended.
At first I didn't like it as much as My Name is Asher Lev, but as I got going, I LOVED it! It was an interesting look at sacrifice. Great books, wonderful author.
Interestingly, the Rebbe of all people is able to come around and recognize art as a way of creating balance and even redemption in the world, even if the others in Asher's life who need it the most never end up seeing it.
His relationship with the Rebbe and his deep spirituality are two other things that make his character break with whatever stereotypes might exist about artists, in my opinion.
He is able to not only create art that redeems, but make creative choices that reflect a deep love of his family and religion, however conflicted those feelings also are.
They plan to stay only a few weeks, but the visit becomes a month, and then another, and Asher's creative drought only worsens.I thought the book dragged a bit in the middle with Asher wandering around Paris, but overall Potok managed to accomplish something similar to the first book, which was to create this sense of building tension toward the end of the story, even without a whole lot "happening" as far as plot goes.
The Gift of Asher Lev is a fitting sequel to My Name is Asher Lev. Nearly 20 years after My Name, Asher Lev, exiled Hasid artist, thrives in France.
But two events in sharp succession throw Asher into Ambiguity: vicious criticism of his most recent exhibition and the death of his beloved Uncle Yitzchok.
The death of Uncle Yitzchok pulled Devorah out of her grave and connected grandparents with grandkids.
The family that Asher's parents had and lost is now found after mourning.
A family in exile is now in a community of a people -- except for Asher.
One feels like they have truly stepped into this world of the Hasid, which for me is at once alien and familiar.
In some ways, I feel like Asher: I am connected to this world, but not part of it.
I do not know how much of him is in Asher Lev, but it feels like a lot.
I wonder as well, how much of Asher's struggle with creating new art without repeating himself echoes the author's own similar struggles?I liked this book, but it is not My Name is Asher Lev or The Chosen.
In this book's predecessor, My Name is Asher Lev, there is much struggle in Asher's mind between following his strict religion & community or breaking away and painting what he sees in the world, even if goes against his religion.
In The Gift of Asher Lev there is only a little of this struggle.
What does his wife really want?A lot of the text is Asher's own inner world, as it is written in first person, and contains many minute details that I could have done without.
Might not be worth the time it takes to get through this book unless you don't mind first person musings and/or learning about Hasidic Judaism.

I can't quite explain why, but I had a harder time reading this book than the first. It was the reading equivalent to walking around waist deep in syrup. It's hard to do, but syrup is delicious? Yeah... Yeah that totally makes sense. Potok does a fantastic job again of creating an image of the characters surroundings as you read, but there was almost too much of it, and not enough content. I suppose that's the Chaim Potok way though. He's the master at eloquently writing about seemingly nothing, with a very deep underlying message.
Even though I'm usually skeptical of sequels, I recall pouncing on this when I first saw it. I love how Potok brings greater depth to an already complex and lovable character. In many ways this book surpassed its predecessor for me. Asher Lev's return to NY brings new opportunities to heal old rifts. Ironically, as he finds the means within himself to narrow those gaps, he creates a new wound that ultimately renews everyone ... including himself. Gut-wrenching and beautiful.
