https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210722.The_Joys_of_Motherhood
“Yes, life could at times be so brutal that the only things that made it livable were dreams.”- Buchi Emecheta, The Joys of Motherhood It's been a while since I've read an African novel that has touched me this much.
The book’s structure is reminiscent of "Things Fall Apart" in that the early part of the book takes place in an African village that still followed its traditional ways, while the latter half has all the marks of colonialism and the struggle the locals went through to keep up with the changing society.I've always felt that the most fascinating books about Africa are the ones about transitional periods because they offer so many contrasts.
That is, if you were looking at this book through symbolic lenses, which, if you've read post-colonial writers like Wa Thiong'o, Achebe, and Soyinka, you'll find it difficult to avoid doing this.However, the story centers around Nnu Ego, whose parents are Chief Agbadi and Ona (the chief's mistress and the love of his life).
Yet Ona refuses to marry him because her father will not allow it, and also because she fears that once she is his wife, she will lose his love and respect: "she suspected, however, that her fate would be the same as that of his other women should she consent to become one of his wives."So when they have a daughter, Nnu, Ona makes the chief promise to "allow her [Nnu] to have a life of her own, a husband if she wants one."
Having lived in comfort in Igbo villages, she spends her years in Lagos locked in a constant desperate struggle to earn enough money to feed her ever-expanding family, consoling herself with the knowledge that she has fulfilled society's expectations of her as a mother and wife.Recently I have been reading a lot of books by women that I find to be strongly feminist, and have what strike me as silly, patronising cover notes that are rendered ironic by the content.
wonderful. this novel takes you deep into igbo culture and nigerian culture as a while in the 30s/40s. you see the connection and conflict between the old and the new, the traditional and the foreign. you see the role that world war II played in nigeria, too. and she never gives easy or simple answers. emecheta writes the most thought-provoking addictive page-turners. also for westerners, this novel is a good exercise in walking in someone else's shoes.
A moving story wonderfully written. Buchi Emecheta narrates of the woes and hardships women, particularly poor women, face in a patriarchal society. Moving through rural to urban colonial Nigeria, this book explores the burdening demands placed on women. Nnu Ego who is the protagonist of the story lives her whole life in servitude of the men in her life, first her father then her husband and later her sons, all the while leaving her with nothing but harsh solitude and weariness.I normally hesitate to call books powerful, but this one truly is.
This ironically titled tale of Nnu Ego is, in layers, a plain feminist text.
The Joys of Motherhood covers both the traditional as well as the 'modern' (aka, the British colonialism).
Emecheta draws a stolid picture of the woes and hardship of women, particularly a poor woman in a patriarchal world.
Just like any other commodities, even the women themselves believe that their husbands own them.
Nnu Ego gave her whole life to be on the receiving end of the 'joys of motherhood', but when she died, 
[s]he died quietly there, with no child to hold her hand and no friend to talk to her.
And I expect to encounter this experience frequently this year as I flip through my shelves of AWS and Virago.
Here I'm reading rather arbitrarily ; just whatever these publishers put on their shelves and which I happened to find on the shelves of bookshops for cheap.
What I do know is that an awful lot of these are BURIED ; if they're any good.
But I do so much like to get the whole thing read.
Nnu Ego is a Nigerian woman raising a family in a swiftly changing society.
Her first child dies in the first chapter of the book and she is devastated by the loss.
He has nothing left emotionally or financially for Nnu Ego and her children.
When his children don't meet his expectations, he blames Nnu Ego. Everything that can go wrong, does.
It is not a cheerful, hopeful book.Intertwined in Nnu Ego's story, is the changing face of Nigeria.
When the English enter World War II, they force Nnu Ego's husband to become a soldier.
At just over two hundred pages, it manages to give a picture of the status and roles available to a Nigerian woman from the 30s to the 50s; to detail the effects of urbanisation and colonialism; and to tell the life story of Nnu Ego, an Igbo woman from Nigeria, a story so grindingly sad that the title of the book must surely be one of the most sarcastic I've ever come across.
It took me quite some time to read it, given its size, mostly because it demands such emotional resilience of the reader—Nnu Ego's life isn't a happy one.
What a destiny, what a life. So this is what it is like to be a mother ? a devoted one ? a faithful wife . Nnu Ego i admire you.
Beautifully written, authentic story and captivating. Buchi is a great writer. She has taken a story and told it simply to give a glimpse of the plight of a woman in Nigeria, but can be applied everywhere. She handles the issues of patriarchy, the eldest son, the value of a girl child and the contradictions and complexities of culture and traditions, against the backdrop and an Africa getting colonised. Simply masterful.

Sem palavras pra esse livro. Espero que as editoras acordem e publiquem mais coisas dessa autora fantástica por aqui. Tinha que ser indicação da Chimamanda <3
How much do you know about their reality?This book tells the story of a woman living in the colonial Nigeria, where motherhood is attached to honor, where having children is an obrigation.
The opression, the fear, the anguish, the dissatisfaction.Buchi Emecheta was a Nigerian woman, she was a woman abused and then abandoned by her husband, she was a single mother of five children, she was a black immigrant living in a white country, traing to raise her kids.
She talkd about the importance of sorority and education and religion for women, she showed the struggles and despair of a Nigerian woman.
Her husband is press ganged into the army to fight for Britain which adds more to Nnu Ego's problems.
But as hard as she tried her results became futile being deserted by her pride and joy eldest sons who move to the US and Canada for education and fail to provide any support to her aging years.
It is also the period of transiting from the patriarchal polygamous village life to the western-inspired world of capitalism, women rights and disregard for the traditional culture.There is no confusion in the messages that this book provides.
A sad story of a woman in the first half of 20th Century Nigeria who sacrifices everything for her c
This is one book I could NOT wait to finish, not because it is not good. It is in fact a BRILLIANT book and checks all the boxes of what qualifies it as a masterpiece! I could not wait to finish it because it is painful. Poverty and Black pain is triggering, As much as it was a page turner, I did so with tears in my eyes at times. I'm still thinking about Nnu Ego and her plight because she tells a story that is lived by so many African women
The disappointment, fatigue, and loneliness that she experiences at the end was perfectly portrayed to the reader, and for that I have to say the book has made an impact.
From an academic standpoint, these customs and way of life described in the novel are interesting because it is a whole new perspective on what it means to be a woman and married in a different culture.
From a modern standpoint, and to a reader who is not prepared, a few scenes in the book might be off-putting.
mas porque ele é um livro forte!
um livro que deixa a gente incomodado por retratar de forma tão intensa o machismo, mas que ao mesmo tempo envolve pela escrita cativante de Buchi.
A biografia da autora é muito sofrida, talvez comparável em parte à de sua personagem, e Buchi cumpriu seu objetivo de divulgar a situação da mulher nigeriana para o mundo.
Uma pena este livro ter demorando tanto pra chegar aqui, mas que bom que chegou!!
torço para que ele se torne bastante conhecido e incite discussões sobre o machismo hoje, também no Brasil!
I did a Review for this book on my BookTube channel! Check it out here: Top Books of 2015(Pt. 1).
An incredibly moving story. It follows so much of Nnu Ego’s life that now I feel like I really know her. I felt all of her joy and pain. (Although, it did also feel really long since it follows her entire life from before she was even born). This was an interesting piece of intersectional feminism; respectful of traditional culture yet also critical of it, as well as the way in which it was increasingly influenced by urbanisation and colonisation.
Ah, que delícia reviver a África c esse livro nigeriano! Foi de um imenso prazer essa leitura, apesar do final ter sido um pouco arrastado por mim. A impressionante história de culturas machistas influenciarem gerações e gerações ... Isso já mudou, mas ainda requer renovação, modernização ... sempre com consciência e respeito. Abaixo a cultura do macho e a submissão feminina ou qualquer forma de submissão nociva! adorei!
Enthralling and devastating!
While some of her novels mirror her own experience as an expatriate living in London, her work mostly focuses on her native country of Nigeria.The Joys of Motherhood is among her most pivotal works, as it offers critical commentary on colonialism, tradition, capitalism, and women’s roles as they come to affect one woman, Nnu Ego, and her family.Emecheta’s work is not strictly feminist in the western sense of the term, and she does not fully identify with Western feminist ideals.
E como é difícil ser mãe na Nigéria da colonização inglesa, gente!A identificação com o povo nigeriano também é completa: sua história colonial, suas dificuldades, o patriarcado, sua cultura, a violência, enfim, muita relação com a experiência brasileira.Esse livro nos dá a oportunidade de fazer um pouco de antropologia cultural e vislumbrar uma característica totalmente diferente da experiência familiar humana: a poligamia.
Mostra a genealogia de Nnu Ego, e você acaba acompanhando a história também por aí.Como pessoas inseridas numa determinada cultura, o livro nos dá a perspectiva do outro, dessa cultura africana variada e rica que muitas vezes nós vemos com preconceito.
It was as though it was the history of a nation growing up and being entirely unsure that progress was being made, told through the parable of a woman's experience as a mother.
Just like the reader.As I suggested above this is a history of Nigeria in the mid-twentieth century, told in the never satisfied but occasionally pleasant story of a mother.
Nnu Ego. A beautiful mother - capable and caring and hard-working.
And you constantly think that what she works towards, as a mother, is all for naught.
I remember thinking how ironical the title of the book was.
I think we can all agree that she experienced the unfairness of life and injustice that comes with it.
The setting of the book was not unfamiliar to me so I found myself justifying some of her actions.
The end of the book was bittersweet because her children gave her a lavish funeral but never bothered to shower he with love when she was alive.
I think it is safe to say that we all want to be remembered for our lives, not our deaths.
Muito interessante! A ironia do título é bem evidente.Mostra valores de uma cultura totalmente diferente da nossa, que me davam pequenos sustos a cada ponto de vista que era apresentado. Narrativa simples e que prende.Adorei o primeiro contato com a literatura nigeriana! É ótimo sair mais uma vez dessa coisa quadradinha branca/européia/nobre que estamos acostumados a ler. Tem tanta coisa acontecendo "lá fora" (vulgo, aqui embaixo do nosso nariz).
I have actually read this novel about a dozen times but I am a HUGE Emecheta fan and decided to use this novel for my Non-Western Lit class this semester. I re-read it along with my students and we had some fascinating discussions on motherhood, feminism, masculinity, and Africa. If you have never picked up an Emecheta novel, this is a great one to start with!
Sou uma prisioneira da minha própria carne e de meu próprio sangue... os homens nos fazem acreditar que precisamos desejar filhos ou morrer.
