https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5670616-the-jumping-off-place
RTC
This book follows the story of Becky (17), Dick (15), Phil (10) and Joan (8) Linville as they leave behind their home in Platteville, Wisconsin to homestead out in South Dakota in 1910.
Some of the plot elements felt very cliched but actually, this book was published before the Little House series and all the other pioneer novels I read as a kid!
The descriptions of South Dakota are lovely and detailed enough to feel like you are right there with the Linvilles seeing everything through their eyes.
I began to read The Jumping-Off Place by book light in a camp bunk with barely a glance at the cover.
Four orphans, having just lost their beloved uncle, travel to South Dakota to "prove up" his claim.
It would make a very nice family read aloud, particularly because there is some lovely prose.
The South Dakota State Historical Society has added an afterword with historical background and author information and a word list, adding to the educational value of the book.This 1930 Newbery Honor Book was a joy, and I am very glad that the SDSHS Press has decided to return it to print.
It’s a rare fiction book that I’ll rate 5 stars.
Even though it is a children’s book, I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I’m afraid it will always be compared with Laura Ingles Wilder’s books.
The same love of the prairie, the same care for family, the same selfless labor for each other, the same harsh natural elements, the same rugged people, the same feeling of community permeates both books, but it can stand on its own merits.
It’s a call to do the hard things, the lasting things.
It’s a call to grow past ourselves and own small desires and to see others.
Переезжаю в глушь учителем, что сказать
I loved the pioneer stories I read, especially as I got older and realized I KNEW pioneers among my great aunts and uncles (my grandfather, too) had all traveled by cover wagon across the country.
I also happen to know of a family of abandoned children during the Depression, who lived out of a car, by themselves, ages infant to young teen.
So I know what kids are capable of doing and surviving.This story of children homesteading in the west was amazing.
Might be a good summer read for kids, teens, even adults.I received a Kindle ARC from Netgalley in exchange for a fair review.
As it covers the pioneer/homesteader territory I love so well, you can understand that I immediately got my hands on the book.The basic story is that four orphaned siblings move to South Dakota in the early twentieth century to "claim up" a piece of land filed on by their uncle, who unfortunately dies at the outset of the novel.
The editor also points out that many readers assumed that McNeely copied the successful Laura Ingalls Wilder in putting out a homesteading narrative for young adults, but that McNeely published her book three years before the first Wilder title appeared.All in all, this was a very satisfying and informative read, even though I aged out of the target audience decades ago.
I lean to three-stars for the modern writing style, which will appeal to today's children, especially if read following the vintage writing style of the Newbery predecessors.
I do recommend reading this book following that series because this story attempts to fill in some of the gaps in Wilder's tales, helping to round out the hardships of frontier life.
The problem with thinking about those larger issues outside of the book trivializes what actually happens inside the book.
I stop caring about the story because it never actually addresses the issues that it makes me think about.
South Dakota State Historical Society has reprinted it and I am so glad.
At first it struck me as similar to Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House books which were a favorite when I was a child.
I quickly turned to the copyright and saw it was written before The Little House books.It is a delightful story about four children who after the death of their uncle go to South Dakota to take up his homestead.
It has wonderful characters that add to the story.
I will be recommending it to those who love historical fiction whether they are children or not
Marian Hurd McNeely's portrayal of the hardships of pioneering life, the unexpectedly strong feelings of unity that come from having to rely on one's neighbors for everything that one might ever need, the fathomless depths of despair when one's most precious commodity is snuffed out by an attack whose effects could have been neutralized easily in a less isolated area, and the pervasive sense of joy that arrives when the hard work finally leads somewhere worthwhile, are knit together as one who hadn't spent time proving up a claim of his or her own on the prairie could never have done.
Set in the 1900s four young orphans move from a small town in Wisconsin to the Dakota prairie to "prove" a land claim established by their uncle the previous year.
He also did a lot of prep work the previous year or they would never have been able to do it.
descriptions of their neighbors' claims leave no doubt to that.
It wouldn't be allowed, the uncle may not even had custody of them.
As far as cultural insensitivity, I'm not condoning it, but I've seen worse in some of these early Newberys.
The Jumping-Off Place by Marian Hurd McNeely is a marvelous story of the pioneer spirit so well portrayed by these four orphans.
I would have loved it as a child seeing how teens and children made it in a world that was difficult even for adults.
It is sort of a cross between the Box Car Children and Little House on the Prairie, while also being uniquely its own story.
I appreciated the way it is written for upper elementary children but found the story to be just as interesting for me as an adult.
Kudos to those who have republished the 1930 Newberry Honor book, The Jumping-Off Place.
You have to read this book knowing that it was written in 1930 about 1910.
4+⭐️
Copy from the Ohio E Book ProjectOne thing that older titles really do well is children having adventures ALONE.
Like Warner's The Boxcar Children(1942) or Margery Williams Bianco Winderbound (1936), this book asks us to blithely believe that children can go off to stake a claim and live in a barn after their guardian dies.
Of course, this is gravely problematic when it comes to the treatment of Native Americans, so I won't be buying it, but it's interesting that Dover has provided e copies of many of these older titles and that my library has purchased them.
After Uncle Jim dies, the four Linville children set off to Tripp County, South Dakota to finish proving up their homestead claim.
Uncle Jim has left detailed month-by-month instructions and kind neighbors help the small family begin their new lives.
Life is hard but Dick and Becky find beauty in the prairie and pull their live together with determination and hard work.
Like the family in Strawberry Girl, the Linvilles have their own mean, good-for-nothing neighbors and suffer through unkind actions.
This book certainly does uphold the virtues of a pioneer life but Marian Hurd McNeely did so in a show-don't-tell style that I appreciate.
Set in the early 1900's in Tripp County, South Dakota, the book tells how four siblings head west to prove up their uncle's claim.
The heat and drought in summer, the cold and blizzards in winter, plowing the virgin prairie, and dealing with contested claims made this a harsh environment for pioneers.
The children succeed by following their late uncle's instructions, working hard, and receiving help from neighbors.The reprinting of the book by the South Dakota Historical Society features an afterword by South Dakota author Jean Patrick.
Patrick gives us historical context and biographical information about the author, who lived in Tripp County for several years before returning east to Iowa.
This reminded me a little bit of the 'Little House on the Prairie' series.
A grandfather to 4 kids decides to homestead in the early 1900's in South Dakota.
He starts to plow and everything, but he dies before he can move there with the kids.
Completely orphaned, they decide to leave their aunt, whom they really don't like, and try to prove up on the homestead.
They face good neighbors as well as bad, and just when things seem the worst everything just kind of works out nicely.Anyway, the author herself actually lived in this same little area proving up on a homestead.
Working a homestead in South Dakota in 1910 would be hard for anyone. Yet, four orphaned sibilings are put to the task. If you enjoy reading books like Little House on the Prairie, you will enjoy following the story of these four as they battle weather, bad neighbors, claim jumping, and the worry of having enough money to take them all the way to establishing their claim. No matter whether you are 12 or 20, you will find yourself turning the pages of this book enthralled with the story Marian Hurd McNeely has created. ---Le Coeur de l'Artiste
The kids and I read this together prior to our trip to South Dakota. They always seem to enjoy stories in which kids have to "make it on their own" without adults around...so this one didn't disappoint. Lots of real descriptions of life as a homesteader and the many challenges...from rattlesnakes to squatters.
I like what the author is trying to tell us about determination in hard times. I choose this book because is set in South Dakota and tell us about the area and the extreme weather. The story is for big kids but is give them empathy and admiration for the characters, that are four youngest kid that become orphan and decide to make a trip to SD to fulfill their uncle dreams.
I loved this book! If you loved the Little House on the Prairie I think you'll love this book too. A beautiful story about a different United States and the strength of character it took to be a settler.
An interesting account of 4 siblings homesteading on their own in South Dakota in the early 1900s. It is based on the author's experience of homesteading (although as an adult). The story is a little bit dry but is fascinating for the clear account of the hardships faced by homesteaders.
I'm making my way through all of the Newbery books and this was the first one that I was wishing would not end. I really enjoyed this pioneer story about four orphaned children who homestead in South Dakota. It's engaging, exciting and humorous. Excellent story!
http://digital.library.upenn.edu/wome...
Interesting and engaging look at homesteading by four youngsters who do make a go at it. See Hattie Big Sky for another look at homesteading.
Cool.
40766d15-cdd2-4b25-8c9b-718e464a9c6d
One of our family's favorites. A fun read. A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
A Newberry Award winner.
