https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101004.Clandestine
"'Wonder' meant the same thing to both of us: the job, the streets, the people, and the mutable ethos of we who had to deal daily with drunks, hopheads, gunsels, wienie-waggers, hookers, reffer smokers, burglars, and the unamed lonely detritus of the human race."- James Ellroy, ClandestineAn early Ellroy, that planted many of the themes and dark LA seeds that would eventually sprout and mature in his LA Quartet novels (The Black Dahlia, The Big Nowhere, L.A. Confidential, & White Jazz).
It was originally published in the early 82 and still hold up very well.
Pretty good early Ellroy.
Though I had problems with the middle third (the pacing just goes totally dead as he goes into a longwinded, heavily expository backstory), I'd still call this "essential" to anyone (like me) who loved the LA Quartet--as it introduces key characters, like Dudley Smith, and locales, like the Victory Motel, that figure so prominently in the Quartet.
In fact, the entire first third reads a lot like the LA Quartet, though a lot less polished.
When I went to a James Ellroy reading I went through my collection to find a good one I wanted him to autograph. I picked "Clandestine". It's that good! When he signed it, he wrote:"To Andy - Doom Dwells!James Ellroy"
This would go on and set up the scene for his now legendary 'LA Quartet' of which I would say there are more similarities with ' The Black Dahlia' and especially 'The Big Nowhere' (my personalfavorite) although this was more rougher around the edges and easier to read because the cop slang dialogue of his later work was not present, so unless you were hanging around with cops in downtown LA back in the 50's this works well and is understandable...at least to some degree anyway.
This would be a great introduction to Ellroy for those who have never read him.
"Clandestine" is far from perfect, but mostly succeeds in going even further than Hammett and Chandler in elevating the detective novel to serious literature.From the first page, you can notice that Ellroy's sensibility is closer to the common stereotype of literary fiction than 95% of authors in his genre: There's a clear inspiration from the concise, hard-boiled prose of the aforementioned classics, but his style is so much more abstract and fragmented it sometimes gives off a Thomas Pynchon-lite feel.
We have to accept that, and get on with the administration of justice."" - p 30 Of course, these days there're plenty of people who, yes, wd rather have anarchy - & those who wdn't, for the most part, are only reacting to the term like a Pavlovian dog preconditioned to experience fear w/o having more than a very vague idea of what it is they're afraid of.
Too many characters are too similar both in name and traits.
Why did our hero "fall in love" with this scary kid?
And I didn't buy that Lorna allowed herself to be swept up again at the end.I'm not a mystery buff so perhaps I don't have the reading chops required for the genre, but I just became lost plot-wise trying to keep track of all the characters and what they were all supposed to have done.
Justice is served at the climax, but its secrecy bugged me and that it didn't redeem our hero with the public or the LAPD.
I love L.A. Confidential (the film) so much that I wanted to read a book that evoked the same milieu, the same literary "terroir," while avoiding a retread of the same plot that would inevitably come with reading L.A. Confidential (the novel) itself.
Clandestine isn't one of Ellroy's most widely-known efforts, but possibly because it was one of his earliest, there's a rough-edged "rawness" to the writing that I found more absorbing than some other, more obviously polished hard-boiled novels.
At times it seems that Ellroy is engaging in a public therapy session to work out his well-publicized personal issues in his writing -- and I say, fine by me; it results in some superb noir.
I haven't looked into where this sits in Ellroy's oeuvre, but it's a bit of a mess.
Plus side: a few of the characters are the most compelling of Ellroy's creations, I really didn't know what was really going on until the last chapter.Downside: I had a very hard time understanding the motives of the very complex main character, Fred Underhill.
Seems that Ellroy was trying to include as many disparate traits in one man as he could get away with, and I don't think he really does get away with it.
An uneven but still compelling early entry from Ellroy's bibliography. As with his debut novel, this flashes his unmatched ability to create characters that captivate and disturb, even when you somehow find yourself liking them. The only issue with these early novels is it feels like he lets plot get in the way of his amazing characterizations. Which happens near the end of this novel, unfortunately. But despite a rough 30 page section near the end, he still brings it all home in a completely satisfying manner.
The fact that this took me over a year to read is likely indicative of something.
it feels like around there the story loses traction.
And then we got to the infodump, flashback thirty or forty years, and I found myself lacking the interest to pick the book up for six months.When you get to the end of the story, loose ends get tied.
See 'six months'.) Damage done is not *entirely* washed away, but it's still a happy ending, for a gritty book about the dirty underbelly of L.A. in the fifties.And that's one of the things that Ellroy is good at, and that kept me reading.
In an interview with Paris Review in 2009, James Ellroy said “If you’re confused about something in one of my books, you’ve just got to realize, Ellroy’s a master, and if I’m not following it, it’s my problem.”He is indeed a master.
The story retells aspects of Ellroy’s own life and one suspects that the description of the troubled child orphaned by murder, but neglected well before this event is a description of Ellroy as a child.A theme of this story is seeking to capture the “wonder”, that is the mystery of life.
It is this wonder that Ellroy conveys so beautifully as he writes about murder and mayhem.
Another early work by James Ellroy (see Brown's Requiem review) that is pretty typical of the author's narrative style.
Ellroy's prose grows more staccato later in his career, but here (as in the Lloyd Hopkins trilogy) the prose is fairly typical of the genre (partially this is because the book is told from the first person POV).
The murders are grotesque without being overly graphic; Ellroy's murders tend to be more offensive than that of Christie or even Chandler, but he knows when to stop on the details.
Since this book predates the LA Quartet series it serves to demonstrate how much depth Ellroy has created in his Los Angeles.
El prodigio. Sólo muy de vez en cuando surge en una novela. El autor te atrapa y te lleva allí donde quiere y sólo allí. No están permitidas las disgresiones ni las distracciones, no puedes imaginar, no puedes suponer, sólo leer, página tras página, mientras el autor hace contigo lo que quiere. Sin embargo, y porque sabes que estás siendo utilizado, manipulado, es de esos libros que estás deseando acabar, que termine de una vez. Esto me ha pasado a mí con 'Clandestino'. Pura literatura. El prodigio.
This was my first James Ellroy book and I found it intriguing. The characters are all so beautifully flawed it makes them fascinating. The hero Fred Underhill risks his career as an LA Cop in a high profile case that winds up getting him kicked off the force. The crime and it's collateral damage to his life haunt him for years, threatening to destroy his life. Clandestine is a beautifully written who-done-it with unique twists and turns.
The main character was interesting and had some reality for me. The story was also exciting and moved right along. In many ways, it was familiar Ellroy police procedural stuff, and I didn't like it as well as some of his other books. It was a good read and kept me interested, although the plot seemed a bit contrived. I will continue to read Elroy's books, as this one, while not on the level of L.A. Confidential, did succeed in holding my interest through to the end.
Another early Ellroy. He's circling the Dahlia here...introducing Dudley Smith and all of his psychological mastery. The hero in this one is fairly straightforward - - his only real sin is ambition. Also continues JE's early obsession with golf, which is fascinating. The villain is awesome - - kind of a weird pulp supergenius. It's goofy but cool. This dude's books, man, are just the best.
Empieza muy bien pero en el último tercio se ralentiza el ritmo sobremanera, decayendo (en mi opinión) el interés por los personajes, creándose un revoltijo de nombres y fechas. Un final bastante bueno y trepidante, adecuado para el personaje. En definitiva se lee con bastante adicción pero queda una historia fácilmente olvidable.
The story has a couple of murders - women who were strangled. There doesn't seem to be any connection between the two, except the policeman has a feeling they are committed by the same guy. He solves the crime, and the guy is arrested. Oops! His career is destroyed. His life is a mess since he lost the only thing he loves to do.But wait! There's more. There's always more. There were too many twists and quirks and coincidences to make this a really good book.
Starts to fall apart towards the endRead this years ago, couldn't remember anything about it other than it was pretty good. It still is, but felt the ending was rushed and weighed down by back story. A decent enough mystery novel though, and an early peak into a lot of Ellroy's themes and obsessions.
Working through more old Ellroy which obviously isn't as good as what he'd become but still worthwhile. With a big role for the returning character Dudley Smith, this one feels like it could be the actual first installment of the L.A. Quartet, or at very least a prelude. Certainly some rough edges, but if you're a fan it'll be worthwhile.
Excellent. The authors second book, and - although it’s central character is a cop - it lacks a lot of the Ellroy jive that his later work is renowned for. It moves across America, from L.A. to Wisconsin and back, and is full of nicely observed characters and moments. The only downside is the presence of Lieutenant Dudley Smith. I just can’t be buying into that cod Irish characterisation.
The first 10 or so of Ellroy's crime novels remain his best and this, the second published, is no exception. The language is terse and edgy and the participants sharply drawn, and the action moves along nicely. You get an early view of some recurring characters. some of the best hardboiled fiction of the late 20th century.
Clandestine is a precursor to what was to come with Ellroy's L.A. Quartet. His style isn't quite as honed, but all the tropes are there. Great characters and an interesting twisting plot that makes you keep coming back for more.
Excellent LA NoirImprobable but highly believable story that grabs you and just won’t let go. Elroy’s innate understanding of the under belly of LA takes you to a place you’ve never been and that you’ll never forget. Not for the faint of heart.
I enjoyed reading a period work from my childhood days. The characters were convincing and developed throughout the history of events. The pace kept me wanting to continue to the climax of the story.
Pretty good - maybe even very good. Somewhat complex and a bit hard to keep everything straight towards the end.
So-SoUnnecessarily complicated, but you can identify an Ellroy book a mile away. Some characters from LA Confidential, but not as refined. Could have used a bit more editing.
Отличный роман. Не хуже Квартета и намного лучше трилогии о Хопкинсе. Классический Эллрой, без стокатто и ранней чухни.
You can see the great crime noir writer that Ellroy is going to become, but he's not there yet in his second novel. The momentum and the craziness are evident, but the story is clunky.
