https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/579014.A_Long_Obedience_in_the_Same_Direction
This book really deserves 6 or 7 stars. It is a balm, a kick, a nudge, a lesson, counsel, conversation, realistic, hopeful, and profoundly biblical and beautiful. Peterson is a master of the simple yet profound, the accessible yet expansive. And in that way he reflects the teachings of Jesus. This book is a treasure.
And what a duty!
To once again turn our hearts to the task of ascending the hills of Jerusalem, as Jesus did so grimly, at his last Passover.For these are King David’s Psalms of Ascent - psalms that tell a compelling story of once again putting our shoulders firmly to the wheel, ‘keep(ing) calm and carry(ing) on - no matter what our enemies may do or say.Worn out as we may be, it is never too late to seek a better world!If you liked the Biblical street talk of The Message, you’ll LOVE this one - Eugene Peterson’s SECOND BEST Greatest Hit.FIVE full stars.
To be brief: this is one of the best books I've ever read. Ever. And I'm so thankful that I read it.There's no gimmicks here, no easy answers, no quick fixes. This book is saturated in scripture and truth. This will be a new regular re-read, and one I'll suggest and give away to many others.
If you find anything written by Eugene Peterson, I recommend that you read it. I could find a spirit-filled wisdom in that man's grocery list.
I'm convinced there's a time for every book.
I'm not sure what made me take it down, but I did, and I read it, and I loved it.
I read it bit by bit, a few pages at a time, because that's how I usually roll with books about Christianity, either the disciplines thereof or the adventure thereof.
This book is about the maintenance thereof.
It's a book for the long haul, about the long haul, with insights into the workaday glories through an examination of the Psalms of ascent.
When you feel a little bereft after finishing a book, it's a good one.
I read the psalm (each chapter begins with the actual text - a big plus to me), the chapter in the book (which focus' on a theme of the Christian life as presented in the psalm), the psalm in my Bible (different translation) and then the African Bible Commentary on the Psalm.I found this to be a nourishing read.
Principles for Christian life.
Not necessary groundbreaking, but walking the well-worn paths of ancient relationship with the God of Israel as revealed in the Bible.Certain chapters hit me very deeply, and i found myself pondering certain quotes in almost every chapter.
Perhaps it came at exactly the right moment in my faith and my appreciation for artistic writing style, but I loved it and would now rate it as one of my top 5 favorite books ever.
He does not candy-coat the faith or make apologies for sin, but instead communicates truth in such a lovely way that I couldn't stop copying quotations into my journal.
I loved this book and will read it again, probably soon.
...Rescue me from the lies of advertisers who claim to know what I need and what I desire, from the lies of entertainers who promise a cheap way to joy, from the lies of politicians who pretend to instruct me in power and morality, from the lies of psychologists who offer to shape my behavior and my morals so that I will live long, happily and successfully, from the lies of religionists who 'heal the wounds of this people lightly,' from the lies of moralists who pretend to promote me to the office of captain of my fate, from the lies of pastors who 'get ride of God's command so you won't be inconvenienced in following the religious fashions!' (Mk 7:8).
(Except for the first chapter, based on Jeremiah 12:5.) The topics are: Discipleship, Repentance, Providence, Worship, Service, Help, Security, Joy, Work, Happiness, Perseverance, Hope, Humility, Obedience, Community, Blessing.Overall, I quite liked this book.
I loved Peterson's emphasis that the Christian life is not based on our emotions and feelings about God or ourselves.In the chapter on worship, he states, "We think that if we don't feel something there can be no authenticity in doing it.
54) I also liked this bit in the chapter about repentance: "A person has to be thoroughly disgusted with the way things are to find the motivation to set out on the Christian way.
An overall decent book, but one I would recommend to people looking to disciple others. New Christians especially should wait on this book and read something else. Pro: Peterson delves into Psalms that are pretty well-known but little discussed or preached on, and many of his insights are fascinating.Con: There is very little talk of Jesus or the gospel, and while I know you can write books about God that don't talk about these subjects (because there is so much to talk about when it comes to God), Jesus and the gospel should absolutely be part of discipleship discussions.
Can I give it six stars? I’ve had this book for a while and was prompted to read it after Eugene Peterson’s passing. It was wonderful. Both encouraging and life-giving, Peterson is a brilliant writer who makes the Bible accessible without losing any of the meaning.
3.5/5.I began reading this modern spiritual classic as soon as I heard that Eugene Peterson was in hospice, with the forecast that he only had a few months left, hoping to finish this before the end; within a few days he had passed away.I expected to give this a higher rating, though when I purchased it my friend told me her own reaction to it had been rather subdued.
At the same time, this book is like other modern classics such as Brennan Manning's "The Ragamuffin Gospel;"they are beloved by thousands but if you've read enough such books their impact on you is diminished.
This book is a dear friend.
It's a classic for a reason. Solid, like every Eugene does and writes.
Anyone involved with discipleship or mentoring would benefit from reading this book.
In the epilogue, found in the 20th anniversary edition, Peterson alludes to the title of the book being a jab at Nietzsche’s idea that Christians are “weak, inadequate, ineffectual and unfit.” There are still people today who feel this way about Christians.
Peterson has done his best to change that by growing those who read this book, take it to heart and do the work to apply it to make the gospel livable in their lives.
Winsome book of biblical theology drawing from the 15 Songs of Ascent (Psalm 120-134) which were likely sung in order by Hebrew pilgrims on their journeys to Jerusalem for the great festivals of worship.
The revised and expanded 2000 edition uses the language of The Message for scripture quotations.I'd always meant to read this and am now scrambling to finish my library edition...
I would love to read and discuss this with a small group or use it as the foundation for a series of teachings or devotions.
Looks like there's a study guide available for purchase as well, but it only deals with six of the chapters/psalms/themes.
I bought this book when it was celebrating 20 years in print.
I finally read it now that it is celebrating 40 years in print.
Why did I wait so long?This is an incredibly insightful book that applies the Psalms of Ascent to Christian discipleship.
The quote contrasts the way we try to apply the Bible to our lives, rather than seeing how God's story and history reveal who we are in God's book.Insights like that one, turning our practices on their heads, come frequently as Peterson gives these Psalms a deep and honest reading.Grab a copy this book and enjoy!
In this work, Peterson uses the fifteen songs of ascent (Psalms 120-134) as a model for Christian discipleship.
Although some of the ideas occasionally seem forced into this framework, I like the design nonetheless, and his comments on discipleship are insightful and applicable.
From humility to joy to perseverance and a whole host of others in between, Peterson provides an array of helpful angles from which to peer into discipleship.
A work on discipleship built on and around the Psalms of Ascent.
Peterson's gift for bold, fresh expression caught and kept my interest as a reader.
But it is how he helps the reader to join him in coming to the Scriptures "slowly, imaginatively, prayerfully, and obediently" that makes A Long Obedience in the Same Direction worth reading.
A favorite quote: "For Christian faith cannot be comprehended by examining an Instamatic flash picture which has caught a pose of beauty or absurdity, ecstasy or terror; it is a full revelation of a vast creation and a grandly consummated redemption" (ch.
I had no idea what to expect from this book, and I think I've always had a snobbish aversion to Peterson for his having paraphrased the entire Bible. In truth, he's a solid thinker, a good exegete, and an excellent communicator. This book is an exposition of the psalms of ascent that reads like sermons. Great material for study and personal edification.
I am currently reading this book at my "direction" for Renewal Time. I am taking about five days per chapter or Psalm. Already, I notice that Peterson's writing about these songs is something that is touching me deeply inside. I appreciate his words even though I would appreciate him using "disciple" more than "pilgrim". ;)
The main thing in a faith walk, says Peterson "isn't work for the Lord, suffering in the name of the Lord, witnessing to the Lord, teaching Sunday School in the name of the Lord, being responsible for the sake of the Lord in the community, Keeping the 10 Commandments, or loving your neighbor."According to Peterson, "the chief end of man [human race] is to glorify God and enjoy him forever."Or as Psalm 134 says "Bless God.""All the movements of dicipleship arrive at a place where joy is experienced.
I would follow him around his house and write down everything he said if he'd let me.In this book he teaches through the Psalms of Ascent (120-134).
The Psalms are my least favorite book of the Bible because I'm not really an abstract thinker, but Peterson brings them to life.
Songs we sing that keep us going because they remind us of what's real.Another great Peterson quote from the book - "The easiest thing in the world is to be a Christian.
In the course of Christian discipleship we discover that without Christ we were doing it the hard way and that with Christ we are doing it the easy way.
There are some good take-away points in this book, but I largely found it difficult to relate to. The audio narrator's speech was quite stilted, which certainly didn't help, and many of the sentiments seemed more applicable to the audience of the early '80s. Still, I appreciated the step-by-step look at the Psalms of Ascent (Ps 120-134) and the inclusion of thoughts and quotes from literary/philosophical sources.
Peterson's first book, published in 1980, but updated in 2000.I loved the book, probably need to read it again soon. He uses the Songs of Ascent, Psalms 120 through 134 to help the reader navigate God's love for each of us and help us discover how to live a life of faith, hope, love, praise, community and relationships with loved ones.You could really spend some time studying each paragraph and be richer for it. Unlike most books, there are no wasted words.
We live in a world that wants everything in an instant. Eugene Peterson explains the need for a long, joyful journey of discipleship by using the Psalms of Ascent. Each Psalm contains a characteristic we all need to nurture in our lives and in the lives of others. This isn't a heady book but it's far from fluff which makes me love it all the more.
This book was a delight to read. I read one chapter at a time and savored not only the scripture but Eugene Peterson's writings on each Psalms. This will be a book I come back to over and over again.
A very sweet, gentle, truthful book. A joy to read.
This is a book to read when you have lost all grit to keep going but need to go anyways. In the grand scheme of God’s story our own doubts pale in comparison to her faithfulness.
This book was so rich... a true treasure. Every believer should read it. I was so challenged and encouraged by Peterson’s words. I am so grateful for his life and his willingness to share what God taught him.
