https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424760.Pierrot_Mon_Ami
It’s things like that, little subtleties of romanticism, that are daubed here and there throughout this tale that give it a lovely radiance.There’s this kind of meandering melancholic joy that occurs in some good French storytelling- I’m thinking of Truffaut’s Doinel series, or especially Jacques Tati’s Monsieur Hulot films (a contemporary incarnation I suppose would be something like “Amelie”, don’t know why all my examples are cinematic, but Pierrot did say he mainly liked going to the movies)- that Queneau’s Pierrot gets perfect here.
A precursor to the madcap ZAZIE, a Thomas Pynchon novel 20 years avant la lettre, a melancholy circus story of shifting identities, a sideways stylist's delight, and a side-splitting refutation of fate. Among other things. Surely one of Mr. Queneau's best.
A charming and beautiful novel with an aching undercurrent of melancholy. The story has a meandering quality but is tightly hewn through Queneau's formally strict structures. The eight chapters in this novel correspond to the eight teardrops on a Prince's crest, and the language is rife in puns and neologisms and glorious prose. Queneau is a strange and unique genius. I should add that the design of this book is SUBLIME. The artwork is credited to N.J. Furl, who specialises in these baroque and gothic covers. See also Things in the Night and Bornholm Night-ferry.
I've made it the requisite 50% of the way through this but, finding myself now completely indifferent to how it ends, I'm going to put it aside.
Maybe it's too subtle for me in the hyper-emotional state in which I find myself, or maybe I'll just never relate to such an apparently lightweight, whimsical and banally dialogue-driven way of telling a tale.
To me it's a rom-com in modernist garb, and maybe in a way that's a clever thing to be, but I don't know if I'll ever be able to care about the faux-sentimental puppet show unfolding in these pages.
“In Old Chicago”, the only film mentioned in Pierrot Mon Ami, starts with slow character development and builds interest through conflict towards a cathartic climax that will pave the way for one of the greatest cities in the world to rise from the ashes.
Any Queneau, Jarry, or Rabelais I've read has never been focused on a linear conclusion or specific plot thankfully as all three seem so much more focused on enriching each current moment with maximum signification, the essence of the experience, (or fennel) instead of foolishly chasing some intended impact.
****.Queneau was in the forefront of the modern French novel.
It is the story of Pierrot, a young man who works in the world of carnivals for a period of one year.
Nothing very much happens in this book – it seems to have no plot to speak of.
At the end, the carnival burns down and Pierrot is forced to go off and find another life.
A central feature of the book is the tomb of a prince.
In spite of Queneau’s experimentation, the book is still a page-turner.
Here we have the story of a disconnected Perriot who floats rather than stumbles through his own odd story, more like a mime than a clown.
But Queneau doesn't let us forget Perriot's classic character origins: "No one had ever told him that he was intelligent.
Perec has the highest profile outside France, especially for his novel 'The Void', written without the letter 'e' and later translated into English under the same stricture.Pierrot tells the story of a Parisian casual labourer and his attempts to hold down a series of faintly bizarre jobs,describing as it does so the interconnected circle of characters through whose lives he moves.
Quenau's eye and ear for characterisation are applied to great wryly comic effect, and the novel is made more unusual and interesting by the application of deliberately surprising or incongrous language, so that a cat is described as 'often grey' and at one point characters 'found themslves obliged to slide on their dorsa.'.
This is my favorite book, and I remember that every time I read it.
It is much like me in its thinking and attitude on life.
Pierrot is the work that spawned my own The Summer Log. It's a book I want everyone to read.
It's a damn shame it hasn't spread like wild fire.
I sure do love European Modernist fiction.
I love everything about it.
At least I hadn't noticed such changes when I hit that spot this read around.If I entertain you, so will Pierrot.Note: This is my third or fourth read, but my first on goodreads.
One of those books that makes me wish I could read the native language. This translation was great (as far as I could inexpertly tell), preserving Queneau's often bizarre vocabulary and abbreviated slang dialogue. Queaneau is one of those writers who is well aware that his work is a book and it is being read and it is just a story and consequently his style is very intelligent and sort of removed, jumping from viewpoint to viewpoint, consciously playing with the reader. If you're willing to play back, his work is very rewarding.
Woe be to the poor person who cannot return to such a brilliant book merely to be disappointed that the novelty has worn off. Queneau's style is delightful and so specific to him that it cannot be summed up by novelty. Reread Queneau means to play a game, and even knowing all the movements in advance doesn't relinquish the task of its engagement.
Queneau is a master of character, often sacrificing plot for the creation of personalities for the reader to connect with.
The thing many people don't understand about novels that focus more on character than plot is that the world revolves around the character because he or she is the only one aware of what is going on in.
Pierrot is such a character in this novel.
It follows one summer in the life of a young man.
There is a moment near the end of the book where Pierrot reflects on his adventure, referring to it as a sort of current that carried him into chance encounters.
I think I was expecting this to be something like A Confederacy of Dunces, but it turned out to be tiresome and I did not enjoy it at all. I think I should blame the translation. This was supposed to be good French fiction from the mid 20th century. The original French is supposedly highly colloquial. The translation is in 1940’s British slang. It just didn’t do it for me.
Lepší než Zazi v metru, která ale byla taky dobrá. Queneau zvládá velmi rozmanité styly psaní. Jazykový eskamotér.
all these "p" names...probably another."oh how i wish that dallas wasin tennessee"what did i think?enjoyed the story...though my reading time is not as much as it is other times through the year and so the reading suffered.
at times, pierrot did not seem to register enough on the richter scale...events were an influence we know we see we hear the laughter...i enjoyed the talk to the wax dummy...i think i'd have enjoyed this story more had i had the time to read it at a pace quicker than what time afforded me.

"Pierrot mon ami" fait sourire à biens des endroits mais je n'etais pas capable de m'intéresser au sort du protagonist qui se laissait constament dépasser par les événements et qui n'était aucunemnet a la hauteur de l'héroine. Après le brio et l'entrain de "Zazie dans le Métro", ce roman décoit énormément.
Ca m'arrive souvent de ne penser à rien. - - C'est déjà mieux que de ne pas penser du tout.I think I would have liked this book even more had I read it in French... The translation was a bit clumsy
Deceptively lightweight and charming. The witty, playfully erudite writing style is a perfect match for this nonchalantly amused narrative. The first I've read by this author, and the start, I'm sure, of a beautiful friendship.
Delightful. I'm sure it was even more charming in french.
Makes it OK to be a meanderer.
if you could give half-stars, maybe i'd give it 3.5. I discuss it more here: http://5cense.com/11/napoli.htm
An absolutely wonderful read. From the irreverent linguistic playfulness to the beauty-in-squalor aesthetic, Queneau embodies so much of what made mid-20th century French literature so special.
This book had humorous moments but ultimately I became bored. What this book needs is an American translator. The British slang is very off-putting for this reader.
Wild; a literary Dali painting.
yeah.
Olijke roman over een paar nietsnutten in Parijs die op een kermis werken, verliefd zijn enz.
brilliant, funny, bitter, and hopeless
thanks, peter!
It's an absolutely marvelous little book, full of humor amid a carnival-like atmosphere and a cast of characters that appear in rapid succession to carry the Fool-like Pierrot from one adventure to another across the novel's dreamlike Parisian landscape.
Pierrot strikes me as The Fool of the Tarot, striding off a cliff, unaware of where the next step will take him but pretty sure it will turn out all right.
The novel absurdly tantalizes us with hints of conventional plots -- a love story, no, a detective story -- isn't he ever going to hold a job for more than one day?
