https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107640.The_Forging_of_a_Rebel
A unique autobiography and history of early twentieth century Spain.
The first of the three volume book, The Forge, covers the Arturo Barea's early life in Spain from 1905-1915.
Part history and part biography this volume details life in Spain.
Barea was in a unique position during the Spanish Civil War. He fought the fascists but was not a communist which made him suspect on his own side.
It was a period of brutality in both Morocco and Spain and became a prequel for the Second World War. Recommended for history readers with an interest in early 20th-century Spain.
Originally three books, "The Forge", "The Track", and "The Clash," Barea’s memoirs combined become a more sweeping and complete account of the politically legendary Spanish Civil War. It is first though, an autobiography; a personal account of Spain through the eyes of a child who comes of age as a soldier, an intellectual, a worker, and a man.
But what is most extraordinary about this brilliant memoir is the passion in which it is written.
For anyone interested in Spain, the Spanish Civil War or just brilliant literature, buy this book, it deserves to be read.
The Forging of a Rebel is Barea’s superb attempt to re-direct the world’s attention to the true origins and nature of the Spanish Civil War. Barea, the son of a washerwoman, was raised by a strict aunt and a kindly uncle and held apart from his still living mother.
Barea intercedes to save a fascist priest and a wealthy business owner, both because they were men of good character who helped others, regardless of political views or status, but there are many others on both sides who are executed on suspicion or by accident or out of malice or revenge for past crimes real and imagined.
I lent this to an elderly couple and they thought it was rather brutal, but it covers Spanish history in the twentieth century - a brutal period - and it is written by an intelligent man who nevertheless accepts a lot of things about his culture. It is beautifully written and very well translated. I absolutely loved it.
Fantastica trilogia para descubrir la españa de principios del siglo xx.
Emphasis on "pain." The 2nd half was much better -- it actually chronicled formative events of his youth and documented the beginnings of his preoccupation with justice and equality (and socialism).The 2nd book, "The Track," continued the better pacing of the 2nd half of the 1st book and did well to depict the corruption and hypocrisy plaguing the Spanish military and government, in addition to Barea's growing disillusionment with the status quo.
I came to this book after all from Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or perhaps it was from For Whom the Bell Tolls -- in any case I've read and loved two books about the Spanish Civil War and was eager to read a depiction from an actual Spaniard.
No puede ser de otra manera, pero por eso resulta tan refrescante, tan valioso, este relato escrito por un protagonista de esa Historia, repleto de detalles sobre los barrios, las casas, las tiendas y los cafés de Madrid, sobre los pueblos de Castilla...
Los cafés de extrarradio en los que se recluían los protagonistas debían ser parecidos a los del mundo de Barea, pero yo los veía más parecidos a los que conozco yo hoy en día.Supongo que simplemente se trata de libros diferentes: testimonios de la época, frente a elaboraciones intelectuales.
Se trata en todos los casos de subgéneros muy próximos al testimonio y a las biografías de los autores que los cultivaron, pero Barea despojó su contribución de los subterfugios ficcionales más evidentes, ofreciendo su texto como crónica personal de un descalabro colectivo.
Al leer la primera página de cada uno de los tres volúmenes de La forja de un rebelde lo que lo gana a uno es eso: la capacidad de seleccionar el detalle cotidiano que, observado con cierta sensibilidad, condensa facetas importantes de la historia social.
An astounding book. A coming of age story from a world that existed less than 100 years ago, but has completely disappeared. The true story of a smart and sensitive young man caught up in the historical forces that laid waste to Spain in the 1930's. Rich with historical details, this book also reads like a wondrous tale of one boy's vividly remembered life and times. I can't recommend it highly enough.
The first 4/5s of this book are a very traditional coming of age story mixed with the politics of the time, very well written, very compelling and better than many because it explores more angles than many, the character is not always a socialist, he's in the army, he's friends with the "man" but as the story progresses he becomes a revolutionarythe last 1/5 of the book is amazing as it tears apart everything this man believes in, loves and leaves him more human than most writers will ever be
Finally.

Pero también, escolapios frente a jesuitas.
Mujeres frente a hombres.
El final mezcla el exilio con detalles sobre el proceso de escritura de esta obra.El libro es la historia de un hombre narrada por él mismo, con crudeza, pero también con sensibilidad, en especial en "La forja".
Me ha llamado la atención la clara omisión de una parte de su vida: la relacionada con sus hijos (aparecen miles de nombres de personajes en el libro, pero creo que no sabemos cómo se llaman sus 4 hijos).
someone claims this is like a proletarian version of war and peace: maybe i will try again reading that.
the first book is recollection of his youth, the second of his time in the army, the third on events of the Spanish civil war in the 1930s.
this book suggests i should read some work again, and again the five is more for the history than for poetic values.
this makes me think of course of Hemingway but also Orwell and of the idealism of the international brigades, and living in a time when clarity of struggle and politics could be embodied and fought for, then the reality of war is presaged by civil war becoming a preview of world war...
This is a brilliant book for anybody who is interested in the Spanish Civil war.
We follow him through his life, army, marriage and political actions until we get to the outbreak of war and the horrors that came with that.
His work as a censor at the Telefonica is mentioned in other peoples books too and I believe he was a bit of a legend.
All in all, I think this is an important book not only because the Spanish Civil war didn't end until the death of Franco but also because it relates to so many conflicts in the world today.
Compelling, efficient, poignant prose; Barea strips his language of inessentials, rids it of all traces of verbosity, embellishment and sentimentality, blatantly striving to be as honest as possible. He describes actions by using short, simple sentences with as little emotional rhetoric as possible; the resulting prose is concentrated, concrete and capable of conveying emotion and irony.A captivating coming-of-age novel, ideal to anyone who is interested in the Spanish Civil War.This copy was kindly provided to me in exchange for an honest review by the publisher via NetGalley.
Recorramos junto al autor los años del principio del siglo XX en España. Entristeceremos ante la descarada corrupción de las élites que mantienen al pueblo en la ignorancia para servirse miserablemente de él. Después, con la República, una luz; pero rápidamente veremos que no podía florecer su semilla. Esas élites no lo iban a permitir.
Me interesó más la segunda parte que las otras dos, que en realidad cuentan historias más conocidas. En algunos casos incluso demasiado manidas.Pero en general es un buen libro
Obra maestra de la literatura del siglo XX.
Netgalleypub date Mar 26, 2019Walker Books
Puntuación: 7
One of the greatest books I've ever read, and I only heard of it by coming across Auden's choosing for his 1966 "book of the year" a history of Vienna by Barea's Austrian wife Ilse, which I only came across because I am such a wonderful guy as to have bought two volumes of Auden's collected prose for my wife for Christmas.
Barea was a leftwing Madrileño of humble origins but great and multivarious talents, whose talent emerged as a draftee in the Spanish army during its campaign to keep Morocco in the early 1920s.
One of the best military memoirs ever, with accounts of battle, death, boredom, and the many ways to grasp the essence of Spain, particularly itself when on its frontier across the straits of Gibraltar.
This is the beginning of a life-long impulse to pimp this book on everyone I meet.Barea is compared with Tolstoi, a comparison warranted if only because of the lenght of both The Forge and War and Peace, but more so because they share the wonderful ability of reflecting a country and its people, and the struggle to find the causes of the historical events that shook them.I remember Tolstoi as outright irritating in his insistence that history was moved by small concatenations of events and not by the actions of great men.
I mean, this guy looooves his mother, but he had waited his whole life for Ilse.
The title immediately pulled me in, and I grabbed it and purchased it without knowing who the author was or its specific contents.If you are looking at understanding the mechanics of the Spanish Civil War then this book will come in handy only if you supplement it with other literature.
What really sets this book apart is that it is an epic struggle of how you come to terms with those that have a different politics from you.
It's a three part book, I'd suggest first "The Forge", unless you are really into the Spanish Civil War. Reading the three in a row you get a great sense of how he changes as a writer. The final part of the trilogy "The Clash" is very interesting, he gives in-depth accounts of the progress of the siege of Madrid, the politics behind the Spanish Civil War, and the precursors for WWII, but his focus is on this romance he creates with his second wife Ilsa.
A surprising book. A masterpiece of historic novel mixed with auto-biography, The Forging Of A Rebel takes us to the lifestyle, customs, politics and wars of Spain from the beginning of the 20th century to 1939. This book is fresh, addictive and beautiful and, after more than 1000 pages you wish there would be another few thousands.
Bought in Skoob books in 1987 or 1988 as part of a three volume autobiography. Bought mainly due to having read somewhere that The Clash were named by Joe Strummer after the third volume (also the Clash). I am not sure now if this is true as I have read other creation myths for the band name.Worth a read if you want to understand the origins for this WW2 prequel.
a huge book in ideas, story telling ability, heartbreak of civil war, fascism, and capitalists. fairly rare book and i haven't been able to find the other two of this trilogy. a must must book for any Spanish civil war readers/scholars
While visiting Madrid recently, I finished "The Forge," the first volume in this trilogy. I loved it. I would recommend it to anyone interested in what life was like for the poor in Spain prior to the Civil War. Barea writes brilliantly from the point of view of the child he was.
La trilogía es una obra maestra.
