https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337537.The_Naughtiest_Girl_in_the_School
Way to go with the great parenting bit!So poor Elizabeth lands up at Whyteleafe, and before she even reaches, she is for some strange reason, ostracised by the students because she again very naturally, refuses to make friends at first sight with random strangers.
Like a good upholder of the values of the regime, Nora has locked away Elizabeth's cherished belongings, threatened to do her bodily violence, and mocked at her distress, all of within one day of the starting of the school.
I missed this in my childhood, but my daughter got a copy for Christmas. My 5 year old daughter and 6 year old son both loved it and we all cried at one point. lovely to share at this age.
A rather delightful little tale of a quite extraordinary little girl and the somewhat bizarre school she is sent to...
Elizabeth Allen is a horrid, spoiled brat. Her parents send her to Whyteleafe, a school with Socialist and sadistic tendencies that strips her of her foolish pride and transforms her into a sensible, loving, moral, typically British schoolgirl. I read my mother's childhood copy of this book (printed on flimsy, WWII-era paper) when I first visited England. I spent the rest of my childhood rereading it and writing parodies of it.
این کتابو خیلی بچه بودم که خوندم و چیز زیادی ازش یادم نیستفقط میدونم دوسش داشتم
Uma série ótima, ao nível a que nos habituou Enid Blyton.
The Naughtiest Girl in SchoolI bought a couple of Blyton’s books a couple of years ago because I thought that I might have missed out not having had the chance to read them when I was a child.
Nevertheless I couldn’t shake the conflicting feelings about the book’s premise that girls must behave in an obedient, proper and polite way at all times.
Being different, being individual should be celebrated in kids as well as in adults.The story of little Elizabeth’s struggle to be naughty and horrid to achieve her goal of being sent home from Whyteleafe Boarding School drew me in despite myself, but it was more of a detached scientific reading, a fascination with a world that no longer exists in the depicted way if ever it did.
Of all Ms Blyton's school series, the Whytleafe School series featuring Elizabeth Allen have remain personal favorites since I read them about three decades ago.
So to me, the Naughtiest Girl series was quite radical in concept.Then the characters themselves were so lovable.
She is easily my favorite Blyton character.
The head and girl Rita and William, the Beauty and the Beast (head mistresses) seem to the wise people we can aspire to.Blyton's portrayal of Elizabeth as a grey character, how she swings from the black to the white makes her a triumphant creation and perhaps a unique heroine in the annals of "boarding school" heroines.
The very first "proper" book I ever read.
I think I was maybe 7 or 8 years old.
It has lead to 35 yrs of reading with a passion, 1000s of books many I'll never remember reading but this one I'll never forget.
I can even remember the point in time when I finished it, where I was at home and how proud I was of myself.
Most importantly how proud my dad was of me.
He too had a passion for reading and loved books.
Apologies to those reading this expecting a review and not my trip down memory lane...
نمی دونم این کتاب زمان خودش جزو کتابای نوجوان خوب محسوب می شده یا نه ولی می دونم که یکم ماجراها اغراق شده بود و نمی تونستم خیلی خوب باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم.به احترام خاطراتم باهاش سه ستاره دادم.پ.ن:چه عجیب کتابی که سالها پیش خونده بودم رو الان از لیست آثار مترجم موردعلاقه م پیدا کردمزندگی چه بازیایی داره.
A Elizabeth é uma menina mimada e traquinas (e muito rica) que apenas com a aparência encanta qualquer um. A mãe e o pai têm que ir para fora e sua precetora, a Miss Scot , já não a aguenta, portanto a sua única alternativa é ir para um colégio. Se queres saber se a nossa Elizabeth quer ou não ir ficar ou não ficar no colégio, tens que ler este livro. Acredita é uma caixa de surpresas!!! ;-P <3
Meh. Not Blyton's best, despite the catchy title and the appealing cover. I still like The Twins at St Clare's series the best.
OMG I loved these books so much bless
The Naughtiest Girl in the School has so many good points.
She doesn’t feel happy about this so she decides to be the naughty student so she gets sent home.
But the more time she spends there, the more she likes and happy to be there even she doesn’t want to admit it at first.
She has a good experience in that school and got so many friends.
Although she makes much trouble but she actually a kind and soft heart girl.
I like the Whyteleafe school system which make student independent and responsible.
I think the book is enjoyable to read and good for children.
This is once again a boarding school themed book where our ‘heroine’ Elizabeth Allen is (as some of EB’s other children) unwilling to go to school and determined to get herself thrown out at the earliest possible moment.
But Whyteleaf school itself is probably the most radical of EB’s schools—the children are a lot freer, have a broader range of activities, can have pets, and most of its business is through a system of self-government where the students’ body determines punishments and tries to create a sort of egalitarian environment.
این کتاب را بیشتر به واسطه مترجمش جناب گلکار خواندم. شاید چند سالی دیر آن را خواندم. البته روی کتاب هم قید شده است که برای رده کودکان و نوجوانان. داستانش از دغدغه های این روزها خیلی فاصله دارد. شاید برای 8 تا 13 سال بد نباشد.
My daughter has really enjoyed this as a chapter book for bedtime reading, thanks to myself enjoying a trip down memory lane she's been up later than usual for "one more chapter" on many a night. I love that my children love books as much as me
Meski entah mengapa saya kok rasanya agak gimana gitu kalau harus bahas keburukan tiap orang di sesi Rapat Besar.
Iya sih, ada hubungannya ke sanksi sosial juga, dan untungnya siswa-siswinya tipe yang ga usil dengan malah jadiin bahan bully-an misalnya.
Tapi saya tetap aja agak sedikit pesimis kalau di dunia nyata seperti itu adanya, yang ada malah setelah RB selesai terus jadi bahan olokan kalau lihat polah pelajar masa kini.
Rasanya seperti kembali ke era natalis konsep demokrasi, hehehe.Semoga aja saya bakal bahas detail masalah ini di review blog saya.
Ahhh I adore this book! I used to read it all the time when I was a kid after my mum gave me the copy she had growing up. I've been in such a slump lately and thought I would read an older book to get me back into reading. I'd forgotten how cute the book actually is!!Four out of five stars but only recommended to people who are already fans of Enid Blyton's work, since this book is very different to children's literature of this day and age.
Enid Blyton turned me to be a child again. It was a great children's book I ever read. She used simple English, well-description for each character and the stories made you want to read more and more. I read in 2018, and never regret to read one.
Read this for buzzwordathon GIRL in the title. Favourite of mine 1970'sVery much of the time but important messages within.Full review to come on my channel
Little Miss Seven and I are into Enid Byton now. A lot!
Really enjoyed reading this c: Brilliant children's novel with great character development. I look forward to reading more in the series.
the book shows how even if you are spoiled you can still be good-hearted like Elizabeth.
This book is really set on a wonderful pretense, children are made to behave not by strict adults governing their behavior but because they are judged and governed by their peers, other children.Elizabeth Allen is an awfully spoilt child, she is an only child, living a very privileged life with her parents and a long string of Nanny's that she single handedly runs out of the house with her horrible behavior and endless pranks.
Elizabeth's parents are at their wits end because they know their child is a good child at the core but she insists on acting badly and cannot be controlled so they tell her that she is being sent away to Whyteleafe Boarding School.
I really like this book.
So I gave it FIVE STARS!!!But then I love all Enid Blyton books.Elizabeth Allen has never been to school before and she thinks she will hate it.
In the beginning she made everyone think she was horrid but then she changed.
She thought that she still wanted to go home but after realizing that when you want to do something but you don't because you made a decision not to do it is being feeble minded, she changed her mind, sup rising the whole school and stayed.
Elizabeth Allen is such a rude and provoking child that her governess quits and her parents, in despair, send her to boarding school.
To punish them for sending her away, Elizabeth is determined to be the naughtiest girl in the school and thus be expelled as quickly as possible.
The Head Boy and Girl are portrayed as so wise and so fair that even Elizabeth is disconcerted and impressed by them and longs for approval.
Seeing other children thrive in this environment and unexpectedly longing for friends eventually inspire Elizabeth to turn over a new leaf, much to the delight of her schoolmates and parents.
Gue bacanya versi Indonesianya..buku2 blyton emang banyak pesen moralnya, menurut gue, kalo punya anak kecil ato adek kecil, drpd ditontonin sinetron2 indonesia yang ceritanya ga jelas boro2 mendidik, mending dikasi bacaan2 kaya buku2nya blyton gini...Buku ini seinget gue ceritain gimana anak cewe yang tadinya annoying abis pelan2 berubah jadi anak yang lebih manis dan lebih disenengin temen2nya di sekolah barunya..top lah..ceritanya cukup deket dengan keseharian anak2, walopun settingnya di inggris..
The first book in the series. Elizabeth hates going to boarding school so much that she sabotages herself by being as impossibly naughty as she can, in the futile hope she will be sent home. But Whyteleaf is such a progressive, democratic school, whose leadership is so supportive of the young students, that in spite of herself she comes to love and respect her school and learns to enjoy the challenges and opportunities it presents. In my opinion this is the very best of Blyton's school stories, although I enjoy all of her _Naughtiest Girl_ books.
Meskipun tema dan plotnya hampir senada dengan buku-buku Enid Blyton yang lain, terutama yang bertema Asrama seperti ini, namun tetep aja, kisahnya Enid Blyton bikin nagih. Ngomong-ngomong tentang badungnya yang ada dalam kisah ini masih kalah ya dengan badungnya bocah-bocah dari St. Clare. Hal yang menarik di sini adalah Rapat Besar, Enid Blyton membuat anak-anak dalam kisah ini tampak lebih bijaksana dan dewasa jadinya.
