https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8816.Stanley_Kubrick_s_Clockwork_Orange
قطعة ادبية مثيرة لكل شئالاهتمام والقرفوالخوف والحب والكرهوالتعاطف والغضبرواية عن شلة عيال صيع مدورين
مع أنني أوقن أن ترجمة الرواية أفقدتها الكثير من جمالها وتفرّدها، إلا أنها مليئة بالعقبات التي تجبر الإنسان على التساؤل ومحاولة ربط أحداث الرواية بالواقع. الجانب الموسيقي، العنف الشديد، تضارب مصالح البشر وحرص كلٍ منهم على الوصول لمصلحته الخاصة بدون التفكير في العواقب، الجبر والإختيار، الخير والشر.. كلها أمور تطرق لها الكاتب بطريقة إبداعية.رواية مميزة..
I don't understand how people could like this shit.
I'm Russian and read this book in the Russian version. But even for me to read some of the phrases was difficult and unusual, although they were clearer to me than for you. In general, this book is a kind of anti-utopia, throughout the book, bursting with a sense of hatred for the terrible injustice
This graphic representation of the film is a great way to review or pin-point a frame of the movie, plus clarify the sometimes hard-to-decipher Nadsat--the futuristic teenage slang--used by "Your Humble and Suffering Narrator." I read it multiply times, and pick it up and flip through it occasionally.
I always wanted to read the novel but the first page, liberally sprinkled with slang, along with the Nadsat Glossary in the back always discouraged me, until I was offered a collector's edition of it from the Folio Society in London, UK.
The movie and the Stanley Kubrick book here do great justice to the original.
في البداية اثارت هذه الرواية في نفسي الاشمئزاز والغضب الشديد من هذه الافعال العدوانية التي تفعلها هذ
There is never a boring part of the book.
The story is different from a usual book.
This book is by far my favorite book so far.the reading for this book is pretty complicated with the English accent.
Along with the accent the stories plot is hard to fallow, but if you undersatand it you will love to read it.
the storie jumps around a little bit also.
over all i think that the book is a little bit complacted to read.
i totally agree with the nobel prize for this book it was great.

Ugh. I found this to be a bit of a chore really. As a fan of the movie I was appalled at how dry and repetitive the plot seemed without the beforeseen sadistic imagery. A line of text saying: 'Beethoven's 9th plays in the background' is hardly substitute for the real thing. As a result of these shortcomings the characters themselves appear two-dimensional and the plot confusing.I guess the original novel is the true work of art here-I shouldn't be so judgemental until I've read it.
This book is a presentation of Kubrick's screenplay with 800 stills from the film. This is not the original Anthony Burgess novel, but many reviewers seem to have confused the two. This is one of the best presentations of a film in book form from those long ago days before home video. A better presentation than any Richard J. Anobile book. My copy has been well thumbed over the years, and has always intrigued visitors who've seen it on the shelf.
Ristampa della sceneggiatura di A Clockwork Orange redatta da Kubrick stesso e corredata dalle immagini del film in b/n, fotogramma per fotogramma, con le battute riportate di ogni personaggio (ovviamente in inglese). Era stata edita originariamente da Ballantine Books nel 1972. Questa nuova edizione purtroppo presenta alcuni errori di stampa, come fotogrammi erroneamente ripetuti e battute fuori posto.
This is one of the best books I've ever read. The manner in which Burgess constructs the book is literary genius. You start off continously paging to the glossary, but before you know it you are immersed in the crazy language (which you somehow pick up quickly) and world all the while forcing you to question society and human nature. Not just a book, an experience.
Hard to describe, great to read. A entertaining warning about youth, friends, prison, revenge, the future and mind control. I guess these where the things Kubrick worried about when not writing. a weak finish is what I would say is the biggest problem with this book, I just don't think a happy ending was appropriate.
Read this because the movie was such a groundbreaker.Not easy to read. The language and dialogue is intense and hard work with lots of slang and completely made up words peppering every sentence. That being said the stroy is amazing and it is an experience and an achievement if you can make it all the way though. Don't be the guy that only saw the movie :)
This is a fascinating and great edition of the screenplay by Kubrick. What makes it great is basically the book is fully illustrated with stills from the film. I am not sure if this is still in print, but a must-have for the Kubrick fan. In a way it's like having the whole film in a book format.
I saw the film first and spent a lot of time with my eyes closed and ears blocked! Reading the book was a different experience, but to say I really liked it is not really the truth. I found it fascinating and was unable to put it down but enjoyment didn't really come into it.
What a great, disturbing book; what a relevant story laced with terrible truths ...and running silently in the background is Beethoven's music touching such a torridly vibrant soul as that which appears to be only semi-possessed by Alex adds such a bitter, bitter poignancy................
I love the writing style and silly language that gets a bit overshadowed in the Kubrick flick. Example, when they throw the old man's money in the street, Alex says "we gave it the scatter treatment." That's a funny way to speak, my droogs.
Read the screenplay to see if I missed something in the cringe-worthy adapdation. No, it's still a mess.
For all my little droogies! Got milk?
As fun and twisted as the film.
Well, i actually read the book, not Kubrik's screenplay, but for some reason, GoodReads doesn't have Burgess' novel listed separately!!
Blew my mind and made me want to write satire/sci-fi.
this book is awesome and any one should read it.
How can I like a character that does this ultraviolance? A result of excellent writing.
Hang on, I'm confused. Whilst I'm well aware that the gorgeous young Mr McDowell was amazing in the film, what did he have to do with the writing of said book? Is this a different book?
Stanley Kubrick es un genio.
This work was considered harmful and disturbing. but in reality is a masterpiece.
One of my favorite book of all times
This book was amazing. At the start it was hard to grow accustomed to the vernacular, but as the story went on it became much easier.
