https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69638.Looking_For_Rachel_Wallace
And it does, because even back when Parker wrote this, the "victim" culture so prevalent today had begun to surface.While the dialog and story are average to above average for the series, and there are some nice moments, having such an unlikable client wears on the reader more than it does the very Boston-liberal/libertarian Spenser.
Frankly, when Rachel Wallace fires Spenser, the reader wants to breathe a sigh of relief that she won’t be in the story any longer.
The good part is that because she’s been kidnapped, Rachel Wallace and her palpable anger isn’t in the second half of the story until Spenser finds her.
Parker is at his best when characters with disparate manners and perspectives come to realize the ties of personal honor and moral principle which bind them together.
He vows to find her and bring the kidnappers to justice.The dialogue between the two principals is crisp and effective, and--given the feminist issues--holds up remarkably well (the book was first published in 1980.) It is enlivened with the customary Spenserian witticisms and his employer's able retorts, and reveals both Spenser and Wallace to be serious moral individuals committed to honorable codes.
Susan Silverman is good too, in this particular book, giving Spenser the perspective he needs to understand this woman who is different from any he has encountered before.Don't get me wrong, though.
I spent a lot of time looking for Looking for Rachel Wallace at used bookstores before I gave up and moved on to easier prey.
Imagine my delight when I found Looking for Rachel Wallace for the modest sum of $1.95.Confession time: Spenser has never been one of my favorite series detectives.
However, I still catch myself being entertained by Spenser and this book was no exception.For a paperback original from 1980, Looking for Rachel Wallace is surprisingly deep.
Rachel Wallace was pretty abrasive at times and Spenser's hunt for her nicely contrasted the two characters.
Feeling responsible, Spenser sets out on a quest to find Rachel Wallace, and he won’t be deterred by right wing racist thugs, rich blue-blood bigots or a blizzard that shuts down Boston.For my money, the golden age Spenser begins here in one of my favorite Parker novels.
Spenser and Rachel are both right and they’re both wrong at the same time, and it makes for a great theme in a book about an old school private detective.Next up: Spenser kidnaps a fifteen year old boy in Early Autumn.
Parker's long-running series featuring Spenser, the tough, wise-cracking Boston P.I. It's also one of the best, before the plots became less compelling and before Spenser's relationship with his long-time lover, Susan Silverman, became virtually insufferable.
Susan appears in the book, but she's not at it's center and she and Spenser are not constantly cooing over each other in a manner that would embarrass the average junior high school couple.In this case, Spenser is hired to act as a bodyguard for Rachel Wallace.
Ms. Wallace is an outspoken gay, feminist author whose new book is bound to antagonize a good number of people.
Maybe it's not a perfect book, but I'm giving this edition of the Spenser series 5-stars because it was darn good, the topic sort of struck a chord with me, and I liked the way Parker played out the tug-of-war between his complicated hero and equally complicated heroine. All the pieces came together for this one and it's made me eagerly look forward to reading more about the Boston-based detective.
(The word "maroon" appears only once in this novel)The second half of the book is very good, 5-stars.
The first half, I felt Parker was trying too hard to show off snappy dialogue between radical feminist Rachel, and surface-troglodyte Spenser.
Great stuff.The pacing in the second half of the book is also very good, and the collection of clues and violence are well-handled.There are some fine quotes in the book as well.See my review of Crimson Joy for more Spenser Series opinion...https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Notes-48.0% Slow start.
the banter in the second half of the book really is terrific.
He modeled for me a gracious attitude towardsomeone whose lifestyle and attitudes were very opposed to his,but he looked for common ground and built a relationship on that.I just love the way Spenser can joke with his black friend, Hawk,on racial issues and now with Rachel Wallace on feminist/lesbianissues in a non-judgmental, but very funny way.
Rachel: Why do you engage in things that are violent and dangerous?
I am good at certain kinds of things; Ihave tried to go in that direction.
Rachel: The answer doesn't satisfy me.
Spenser injects lots of words of wisdom into conversations.Example -- "It's good to know what you can.
Hired by her publisher, Spenser is assigned to protect the feminist-lesbian writer Rachel Wallace, who is ruffling feathers left and right with her new book that exposes prejudice in high office and business.
In keeping with the earlier stories, this is more violent (Spenser kills two people at one point), but Parker also tries to explain the ‘male code’, whch is interesting (and sets up a nice relationship with a young cop called Foley).
With a cracking climax - Spenser breaking into a right-wing stronghold - that takes place against a blizzard that brings Boston to a stand-still, this zips along at a rapid pace and is never less than interesting.
If we are to have any kind of successful association you'd best understand right now that I do not enjoy humor." Oh man, I thought the portrayal of the militant women's libbers in Promised Land were bad.
Still, I gave it another 20 pages and found Spenser confronting a picket line of bigots trying to bar the lesbian author from her speaking engagement:"As we approached the group they joined arms in front of us, blocking the entrance.
A splendid figure of a man, the rock upon which the picket line was anchored.
When Spenser forcefully steps in to deal with a hostile man, Rachel has had enough and fires him.
Once Spenser is no longer there to protect her, Rachel is kidnapped with no communication from the perpetrators.
As expected, Spenser willingly enters the danger zone and extricates Rachel.
Parker portrays both as tough, yet vulnerable and Rachel’s musings of rescue while she is being held makes the story about more than the actions of Spenser.
This is a great book, for it portrays the tough Spenser as vulnerable to more than guns, knives and fists.
এক লেসবিয়ান, ফেমিনিসট লেখকের বডিগারড হিসেবে কাজ করতে হবে সপেনসারকে। কিনতু ওর মত সমারট মাউথকে সহয করা কি এতই সোজা? তার উপর ঐ ফেমিনিসট যদি হয় আলটরা সেনসিটিভ! সপেনসারের নিষঠুর সেনস অভ হিউমারের কথা তো বাদই দিলাম। ফলাফলটা সহজেই অনুমেয়। সপেনসারকে বরখাসত করা হলো। এবং ঠিক তার পরের দিন ঐ লেখিকা কিডনযাপড! তদনতে নামল সপেনসার। পুঁজিপতি থেকে শুরু করে বাম দল, কলু কলাকস কলযানের সদসয, সবাইকে খেপিয়ে তুলল সে। আহত হলো অনেক মানুষ, নিহত হলো একাধিক।
এক লেসবিয়ান, ফেমিনিস্ট লেখকের বডিগার্ড হিসেবে কাজ করতে হবে স্পেনসারকে। কিন্তু ওর মত স্মার্ট মাউথকে সহ্য করা কি এতই সোজা? তার উপর ঐ ফেমিনিস্ট যদি হয় আল্ট্রা সেনসিটিভ! স্পেনসারের নিষ্ঠুর সেন্স অভ হিউমারের কথা তো বাদই দিলাম। ফলাফলটা সহজেই অনুমেয়। স্পেনসারকে বরখাস্ত করা হলো। এবং ঠিক তার পরের দিন ঐ লেখিকা কিডন্যাপড! তদন্তে নামল স্পেনসার। পুঁজিপতি থেকে শুরু করে বাম দল, ক্লু ক্লাক্স ক্ল্যানের সদস্য, সবাইকে খেপিয়ে তুলল সে। আহত হলো অনেক মানুষ, নিহত হলো একাধিক।
Not bad.
Nothing really special, but I enjoyed it because of the author’s wit.About once a chapter he says something that makes me chuckle.
For example: Spenser is talking to a guy who is a member of the Ku Klux Klan.
She does not like Spenser’s macho abilities.
She needs him, but she doesn’t like needing him.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #6 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: strong with racial slurs but not often used.
Sexual language: none.
Book copyright: 1980.
If you're reading the series, go for it.
But the storyline was shallow, characters thin, and just wasn't all that good.
I wasn't, at the time, familiar with Spenser, so he was just another character of Parker's.
A few months ago I decided that I would begin reading the Spenser series, and what a surprise when I realized that I had read this one last year, out of sequence.Kind of glad though because this one isn't even close to the great ride I just got off of with The Judas Goat.
Ok book, but not up to par with Parker's usual.
My first foray into this series, and it was a pleasant introduction. The plot is a bit thin and I found myself growing impatient for a mystery to appear during the 1st quarter or third of the book. I like the protagonist and his smart-aleck persona well enough, but by the end of the book I didn't feel much connection. I'd place this in the "palate cleanser" category-- a good one to pick up in between more serious or complex novels.
This is probably the weakest Spenser yet. None of the characters save Spenser and Silverman are compelling. The mystery isn't very engaging. It felt phoned in. Still going to forward with the series, though.
Rachel finally agrees to accept Spenser but insists he not get in her way.
And another important moment occurs when he finally rescues her from her captors and Rachel cries at the sight of him.
In those moments, both Spenser and Rachel learn important lessons, not only about life but about themselves and each other.
It was, I think, especially well done.Although Rachel and Spenser initially appear to be very different characters Parker hints at the qualities they share: both are confident about the lifestyle they have chosen, both are intelligent and well read, both care about others and try to be fair to those who are not like them.
I love Spenser, and this is an alltime classic, which shows him for what he is.
An oldie but a goodie.
A fairly simple case, protect an outspoken author, Rachel Wallace, that has been receiving threats. But Spenser's extreme machismo and the author's extreme feminism do not mix, and he is fired. And then Rachel is kidnapped, leaving Spenser to find her. Very quick story. With some ass kicking and cooking.
Another great one. The one negative is No Hawk. Love that guy.
This book is copyright 1980, way before all the LGBT movements of today. It could open some eyes, but I doubt it. It is kind of like religion, you can't stuff it down peoples throats, that doesn't work. Spenser is a macho code man with a sense of humor. Rachel is neither of those things and knows she is always right. Yes, you are going to argue with me but so what. Get over yourself.
This is truly one of the best Spenser novels I’ve read. Especially in this day and age. I highly recommend this book.
This is #6 in the series, published in 1980, whichI will call, "Spenser Raises Consciousness."Two books back, I mocked Promised Land as being "Spenser versus the Straw (wo)Man".
It just happened to be feminism in that case.The set-up is that Spenser is hired to guard Wallace, because there have been threats against her if she publishes her latest book.
But by the end of the book we can see that Spenser, using Parker's New Machismo, can play nicely and achieve mutual respect with clear-thinking lesbians and feminists.
Spenser says no, he's the real thing.Writing wise, it's a good set up for Parker to blow off some steam about publishing.
It's also true that I've managed to avoid the stinkers that populate the series.But the 9 books that I have read comprise some of the best writing I have ever read, and some of my all time favorite books.
They are constantly hilarious, insightful and always entertaining- none more so than "Looking for Rachel Wallace." Spenser, as has been noted in several of the books, is not really a private detective but a knight errant.
Spenser has been hired to protect Rachel Wallace, a lesbian and activist, who has managed to ruffle the feathers of many prominent leaders in Boston.
Had a trusted friend not recommended the book to me, I would've put it down at Rachel Wallace's self-description as a humorless feminist.
I'm glad I stayed with the book, however, because it presented many different viewpoints on gender issues (with the homophobic opposite extreme depicted as suitably repugnant), and Spenser even acknowledged the problematic nature of his own knee-jerk instinct to "protect" women, realizing that he was sometimes doing more harm than good.
It's not a revelation I would've expected from this kind of character, written in 1980 to boot, so props for that.Of course, once Rachel was kidnapped, the examination of gender issues more or less went out the window, and the mystery itself was pretty bland.
In Looking for Rachel Wallace, Spenser is hired to act as a body guard for Rachel.
Rachel is a very vocal feminist speaker and writer and regularly puts herself in harm’s way to advance her cause.
This male ego driven answer to conflict angers Rachel, who promptly fires Spenser.
Shortly after having been fired, Rachel disappears and Spenser feels duty bound to find her and return her to safety.The dichotomy of the story is that Spenser’s ego creates problems for Rachel, causing her to fire him.
But the same drive causes him to feel guilty about having acted out initially and putting Rachel in danger.
58 out of 100 for 2010.Guess who Spenser is looking for in this novel?Feminist leader Rachel Wallace has been threatened, and her publisher has hired Spenser to protect her.
This philosophical difference results in Spenser being fired; and, not long after, Rachel disappears.
Spenser checks various right wing hate groups, thinking that the kidnapping is political.One of Spensers "codes" (and, perhaps, Parker's) is that those who put causes over people usually are more often more monstrous than those the cause holder denounces.
Thus is the case with this; Rachel's kidnapping isn't political at all, but .
Rachel Wallace is also not a likeable person.
I would have liked to have seen how Parker would have written this if Rachel would have been a sweet likeable lady.
With the personalities clashing Wallace fires Spenser.
Instead of just letting it go, which is what I would have done in Spenser's place, he sets out to try to find Wallace and rescue her.What made this book one of the better I have read so far in my exploration of all things Spenser was the conflict between the characters.
Still a good read.
Rachel Wallace is one of the least interesting characters in a Spenser book so far. She is a militant lesbian on a book tour, with Spenser as her bodyguard until she fires him--big mistake! Susan Silverman makes a nice contrast to Rachel. Spenser does his job well and I am hoping that the next book we have around the house will be more enjoyable.
