https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1758199.The_Leadership_Challenge
Finally, an aspiring leader must commit to executing on those values personally, in order to model the way for the team.
This category is pretty fuzzy, but it seems to suggest that an effective leader first sincerely believes in the pursuit of team goals and achievements, and second, utilizes his or her own enthusiasm to recruit team members into sharing that commitment.
Teams are more likely to want to follow a leader who is sincerely enthusiastic about the work at hand, and who can positively convey a sense of the meaning and importance of that work to their team.4.
The fact that books like this never make any mention of such employees presumably implies that leading such people requires no skills at all.
That books on leadership make no mention of this makes them read more like moral myths that need to be learnt in theory and disregarded in practice.It is now about a week since I read this book - and I’m struggling to remember any of the little stories here used to justify the 12 of this and the 5 principals of that.
I come away from these books basically wanting to hear about Hitler - you know, a counter-example of leader.
The Five Practices of Exemplary Leadership:1) Model the way2) Inspire a shared vision3) Challenge the process4) Enable others to act5) Encourage the heart2.
Credibility Is The Foundation of Leadership: For people to follow someone willingly, the majority of constituents believe the leader must be honest, forward-looking, inspiring, and competent.PART 2Model the Way3.
Set the Example: Personify the shared values and teach others to model these values.Part 3Inspire a Shard Vision5.
Celebrate the Values and Victories: Create a spirit of community and Be personally involved.Part 7Leadership for Everyone13.
Fun and engaging book on leadership.
This is a good leadership book. I am tempted to give it a five after reading the last chapter, but the bulk of the book is four-star material. The last chapter is absolutely leadership gold? Intrigued? Pick it up and read it!
Every time I read a book like this I check the credibility of the authors and if you do your own research you'd know that these two are more then credible to write a book on leadership.
Whenever I read a book of this kind I check to see if it's research based and not based purely on personal opinion.
Like frosting on the cake all of the ideas that they present from the studies and questionnaires are supported by stories of leaders around the globe.
A cliched and trite trudge. It is somewhat shocking that this book is in its 4th edition, and is mostly composed of common sense platitudes; being required to read this for grad school is some sort of punishment, surely. To be fair, some of the author's points about the dangers of micromanagement and engaging employees on a personal level are well-founded, but perhaps not a lesson that required 350 pages to convey.
A lot of practical application based on research - much different than a John Maxwell type of book
The book is great in that it covers a lot of real-life examples of leadership exhibited in organizations of all sizes and industries all around the world. The principles in it are also key to success. I probably could have skimmed the whole book and gotten a similar level of output. Glad I learned that for future similar texts.
A great, great book...very practical advice...I thoroughly enjoyed it...Dr. Pozner was one of my professors at SCU Graduate Business School...I advise this book for all my colleagues, especially my friends in Sri Lanka...read it...noodle on what is revealed...look around...look inside...you will know in your hearts who are the leaders! Enjoy!
Great ideas and insights from within the book:Clarify valuesGood exercise – write a tribute to yourself:1. What do you stand for?2. What do you believe in?3. What are you discontent about?4. What brings you suffering?5. What makes you weep and wail?6. What makes you jump for joy?7. What are you passionate about?8. What keeps you awake at night?9. What’s grabbed hold and won’t let go?10. What do you want for your life?11. What is it you really care about?Write your credo. “This I believe.”Share t
“This I believe.”Share the above among those on the team.Daily show someone you care.
Excellent behavior – reward it if you want it repeated.Do personal audits•	Your daily routines•	Your calendar•	Agendas at meetings•	How you deal with critical incidents•	Make the results publicStart each meeting with a story about something someone did to demonstrate a cherished value.Ask people what they are proud of, what brings them to work every day.
For me that is probably about two hours per week.Once a month, give a team member award that is voted on in a meeting.
"The Leadership Challenge" was the book that spurred the re-thinking.Pretty good insight as to how to become a better leader.
This book is built on the fact that leadership can be taught.
Its success is built on the fact that anyone can accomplish the extraordinary.My only caution with the text is that it contains too many lists.
It starts with the "five practices of exemplary leadership", then offers two ways to achieve each of the five practices, three activities that you can take to accomplish the two ways to achieve the five practices, and so on.
I had to read this as part of a group project (for a class in the nonprofit management certificate program).While I think this book provides some great ideas and insight for leaders, I think it could be shorter.
This book does not motivate me enough to want to read it all for myself.I guess this would be a great/useful read for anyone who hasn't been enrolled in a leadership program for five months or has recently started a career in a management/executive position.
A very readable, well-researched, and practical book about leadership, now in its fourth edition.
It includes interesting insights about what followers expect of their leaders, and rich descriptions of how to accomplish the five leadership challenges in contemporary organizations: challenging the process, inspiring a shared vision, enabling others to act, modeling the way, and encouraging the heart.
Head and shoulders above dozens of books I’ve read on leadership since 1972, including a raft of recent ones.
It is really interesting to see what qualities of leaders their followers have most admired over the past 25 years...
I consider Leadership Challenge by Jim Kouzes and Barry Posner to be the best research-based book ever written in the field of leadership.What I love about this book is that it is actually written for its readers!Let's face it--very few readers of business books are CEO's of multi-billion corporations.
Yet many business books follow the same over-used formula--interviewing CEOs--talking about what they are doing so well--and suggesting that you do the same thing.Leadership Challenge is based upon learnings from leaders at all levels--and shows how "regular people" can make a huge, positive difference in their organizations.
I had a three-day course once, called "the leadership challenge". I thought the book would be similar - that the course was based on the book - and in some sense it was. This book gave me a lot to reflect upon. It also gave me support in affirming that some of the ideas I have been nurturing during summer holiday are worthy of implementation. I've mulled over the content and taken notes. Whether this book deserves a five star rating is something I expect I'll find out eventually.
Leadership není o pracovní pozici nebo titulu.Není o rodině, ve které jste se narodili.Není o tom, že jste hrdina.Leadership je o budování vztahů, o důvěryhodnosti a o všem, co děláte.A vše, co vždy budete jako leader dělat, je založeno na klíčovém předpokladu: že vám na tom záleží.
Absolutely the most comprehensive leadership book I've ever read. Packed with insightful practical tips for becoming a better leader, this is a must-have for anyone who finds himself in a leadership role or anticipates doing so. Will be re-reading this time and again.
أحد أروع كتب القيادة التي قرأتها وخاصة للقادة ذوي الرؤية..يمكنك من نمذجة خطواتك واكتشاف أخطائك وتطوير ذاتك وطرق التعامل مع فريقك
This book was too academic to be really engrossing. As an academic treatise on leadership, it was fine. As a practical manual on leadership, it was lacking in specifics.
supplemental read for my first grad course. excellent. loved the examples
I'd recommend this book to any leader from middle-manager with any goal-setting authority to pastors, parents, etc.The authors identified a culture of trust as the key to having motivated employees "authentic leadership is founded on trust." Credibility is the foundation- the First Law. 89% of survey respondents identified "honesty" as a characteristic of admired leaders.
The job I moved to has the vision and values hung up on posters in highly-visible areas.In the book, those rated as good leaders are those who make the vision clear-- everyone should know the mission statement and what's expected.
Celebrate the values and victories by creating a spirit of community."9- "As the data clearly show, for people to follow someone willingly, the majority of constituents must believe the leader is: Honest, Competent, Forward-looking and Inspiring."10- "To gain and sustain the moral authority to lead, it's essential to Model the Way. Because of this important connection between words and actions, we've chosen to start our discussion of the Five Practices with a thorough examination of the principles and behaviors that bring Model the Way to life.
It might, at first glance, seem like common sense, but consider that this book might not be written to be read in one or two sittings.
Consider reading one chapter and then implementing what you've learned, no matter how basic it might seem in your work place.
Reading through some of the reviews I can absolutely see how some people might feel it being too basic and common sense.
The thing is...most leadership appears basic and common sense anyways if you look at it that way.
I really enjoyed this book on leadership practices.
This book does a great job of taking you through five proven methods of improving you leadership potential.
If you want to step up your game and gain some vital insight into proven leadership methods, than this book should be right up your alley.
I am neither an expert or a rookie on leadership, but I feel this book and its lessons can help someone at either end of the spectrum.
I am now thinking each day about how to make the team feel appreciated and vital.
If you look at the main headers / labels, they seem like pretty standard stuff that you'd expect in leadership books.
Maybe because I could feel the authors' passion and heart for the topic through their words (as opposed to ego, like so many other leadership books).
And, when I honestly reflected on the points, I'd have to admit that I "know" most of the stuff, yet I don't apply them in my life and work.
In short, my take on the book: not a great "how-to" book, but a powerful "reminder-book" for self-assessment and reflection.
Practical and insightful book, full of anecdotes and principles that discuss what leadership is and should be.
And it starts with looking inside.""Leadership is an observable pattern of practices and behaviors, and a definable set of skills and abilities.
And any skill can be learned, strengthened, honed, and enhanced, given the motivation and desire, along with practice, feedback, role models, and coaching.""Leadership is not an affair of the head.
Leadership is an affair of the heart."The second quote is the crux of this book, and it really sinks in after a few reads.
Highly recommended for anyone who wishes to understand leadership-management theory.
True, each of these 5 leadership behavior categories is broken down into two other and then six other behavior types in the LPI survey, but the understanding surrounding the 5 core value behaviors remains constant.
The topics considered for leadership focus on changing our behaviors.
Some sort of mentoring system, small group training, or even an accountability partner is required to evolve the head knowledge provided here into a meaningful and substantial leadership lifestyle.
After completing this book as part of my own leadership training experience, I am upgrading this statement to: Leaders are Livers.
Although the my peers (while in front of the prof) were keen to talk about how much they got out of this book.
To me, the points made in this book were common knowledge.
Yes, sometimes we need to be reminded because it is easy to become desensitized to the bad leadership practices that surround us.
But for the most part, bad leadership skills stick out.
This book is a basic guide to how to lead other humans in a respectful and responsible way.
If you are wondering "Gosh, how do I do that?" then this book is for you.

