https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77625.Three_Witnesses
The Nero Wolfe team consists of two parts of a whole detective – Archie Goodwin, Wolfe’s leg man, narrator and jack-of-all-trades and Nero Wolfe, the pompous, sedentary (read: fat) brains behind the team.
The best Nero Wolfe are the books that take Wolfe out of his element (sitting in a chair) and let him mix it up with new surroundings (Too Many Cooks, The Black Mountain, Death of a Dude) or the ones that throw a monkey wrench into Wolfe’s and Goodwin’s daily life and upend it (A Family Affair, The Doorbell Rang).
Nero Wolfe is called to testify in court as a witness.
A dead body makes an appearance shortly after this.I am proud to say I was able to solve this mystery before Nero Wolfe explained it.
So I was smarter than Archie Goodwin in this case.
Nero Wolfe called his bluff and let the dog stay.
This ultimately leads to him having to take a murder case to solve with the dog as the only client and no fee in sight.
This one is a good mystery which seems fairly complicated at the beginning, but looks very obvious once Nero Wolfe untangles it.
Three enjoyable Nero Wolfe novellas. In the first, Wolfe must testify for the prosecution during an innocent man's murder trial, in the second a man who died twice leaves a clue from beyond the grave, and in the third the behavior of a Labrador retriever holds the key to a murder committed with his leash. All excellent entertainments.

003 - "The Next Witness"067 - "When A Man Murders"129 - "Die Like A Dog"All three stories originally appeared in the American Magazine. Dust jacket design by Bill English.
Really fun book containing three short mysteries. Each story can be read in one sitting. None are disappointing but are full of Archie's wise guy cracks and Nero's drollery all wrapped up in good little whodunits.
****.Stout presents three short novels in this book that originally appeared in other magazines under different titles.
They were the stories, “The Next Witness,” and, in addition, “When a Man Murders…,” and “Die Like a Dog.” There is no underlying theme among these selections, each standing independently from the others.
Each story, however, does focus on one or more of the witnesses in the case under scrutiny.
I find that Stout’s handling of plots to be much improved in his short stories vs.
that of his stand-alone novels.
Nero Wolfe, while sitting in a Court to act as a witness for the prosecution, realises that something is amiss in the way facts are being presented.
"When a Man Murders..." presents a case that is full of charm, wit, tension, and all such stuff that we expect in a Nero Wolfe 'case'.
Thoroughly enjoyable, and a breezy read, goes without saying.Third novella "Die Like a Dog" was actually the best of the lot, as we get to see a completely different persona of Nero Wolfe.
It would do no harm even if you haven't read anything from Rex Stout, since the mysteries are solid enough.Highly Recommended.
And in Stout’s books, Archie Goodwin narrates Nero Wolfe’s endeavors to assist the police in solving mysterious cases in New York City.But similarities don’t stop there.
Stout’s detective, Nero Wolfe, is a large man who doesn’t like to miss a meal and would rather sit and consider the facts.
Those mysteries are why I don’t enjoy graphic blood and guts.If you’re looking for an interesting cozy mystery—without blood and guts—Stout’s Nero Wolfe series are the mysteries for you.
And like other good cozy mystery writers I’ve read, I couldn’t guess whodunnit before the detective.
I reread this for the first time in a long time.
On the whole I like the novels better than the short stories which means I read them more often.
That said, how can I not like a story in which Archie brings home a dog.
He does it in part to annoy Wolfe, and discovers that Wolfe would be happy to have the dog there as long as it was *Archie's* dog.
All the benefits of having a dog, but he can blame someone else for any inconvenience.
Sometimes Stout shows a very clear understanding of human nature.
Or have I read this before? The trouble with Stout’s three-novella sets is that the titles don’t really connect to the stories, so I constantly get them mixed up. I think I would have remembered the first story (“The Next Witness”), because it’s terrific, Wolfe is sharp, Archie funny, and you get to see Saul’s apartment. And the last (“Die Like a Dog”), because it features a dog that wins Wolfe’s heart—and it’s a pretty sloppy, clumsy, subpar story. All told, though, all three are well worth reading, whether or not you remember having read them before.
Thee good stories. I like the last where Nero gains a dog as a pet. I haven't read about the dog in any other stories though.
Wolfe manages to save the day in a very amusing way (to us), twisting the circuitous legal system in knots all for the sake of justice."When a Man Murders" was a surprisingly enjoyable story, perhaps the most enjoyable story to date of which I had no prior knowledge.
This is definitely one of the best shorter Wolfe adventures."Die Like a Dog" is among my least favorite Wolfe stories (of which I currently have knowledge), in part because it has a palpable amount of wife-threatening and marital turmoil.
Nero Wolfe is stuck sitting in court, waiting to be a witness for the prosecution along with Archie Goodwin.
a very compelling idea that will flip the case on it's ear and expose the truth.2) When a Man Murders - When a soldier who was supposed to have been killed in the Korean War suddenly appears quite alive his widow sure gets a surprise - especially because she has married someone else.
Could it be that the dog was smart enough to follow Archie Goodwin back to the old brownstone to get Nero Wolfe to solve the crime?
There isn't a knife in any of these stories - except maybe an un-needed one for the dining table if Fritz is cooking.
The payoff scene in the courtroom is a brilliant strategem.Rating: Very Satisfactory"When a Man Murders"-This is Nero Wolfe's Enoch Arden case as a millionaire husband returns from after being declared Killed in Action in the Army.
This one is fairly well thought out.Rating: Satisfactory"Die Like a Dog"A man accidentally takes Archie's coat rather than his own.
Archie goes to switch coats and finds homicide crawling detectives all over the scene and given his history, he leaves.
This collection isn't the absolute best, but it's very pleasant.In "The Next Witness", Wolfe and Archie are witnesses in a murder trial.
Waiting for his turn to testify, Wolfe decides the prosecution has got it all wrong, and absconds from the courthouse (guaranteeing himself a contempt of court charge) to do some detection and bring the actual murderer to justice.
The bride and her new husband just want Wolfe to cajole the first husband into a divorce, but when the first husband turns up dead, things get markedly more complicated.Finally, "Die Like a Dog" introduces Jet (aka Bootsy) into the Wolfe household.
I started reading Rex Stout’s books back in 1997 when I got a couple of the books as Christmas gifts.
It is one of the few books Rex has written that has not one story but three short cases that Nero Wolfe has worked.
The stories in general are the best Stout as an author has ever done.
I see how well of an author Stout is after I read this book.
The book was another great hit by an excellent author of his time.
The first story, "The Next Witness", opens with Wolfe and Goodwin in a courtroom waiting to testify in a case where the defendant tried to engage Wolfe, but was declined because of Wolfe's policy refusing to take relationship-based cases.
Recognizing that his testimony will support the prosecution's faulty case, Wolfe leaves the courtroom to investigate, becoming a fugitive in the process.
Wolfe's stratagem for getting his theory of the case to the judge and jury is ingenious.The next story, "When a Man Murders", is fairly strange.
The last story, "Die Like a Dog", is a clever, fair mystery.
This was my first Nero Wolfe experience but I'll definitely read more.
Written in the hard-boiled detective styles of Travis McGee and even the Maltese Falcon, Rex Stout also imbues a dry wit and subtle humor in his stories.
This book has 3 separate novellas about Nero Wolfe and his sidekick Archie Goodwin.
As Archie gathers the clues and suspects, Nero puts them all together and the reader can try his hand at matching Nero's deduction.
I love the frictional relationship Nero and Archie have with the police and find it humorous that Nero stays just this side of the law and is able to bend the police to his will.
Rex Stout's "Three Witnesses" (first published in 1956) is the 26th book in his "Nero Wolfe" series.
Like his other "Three [x]" books, this is a compilation of three short stories: "The Next Witness" (1955), "When a Man Murders" (1954), and "Die Like a Dog" (1954).
In this case, I found each of the three stories to be about equally (very) good.
My only issue is that I found the ending of the 2nd story ("When a Man Murders") to be a bit abrupt.
Other than that, it's the usual Rex Stout "Nero Wolfe" excellence in writing.
Rex Stout was recommended to me during a writing class, and I just randomly picked this book up from the store.
I have to say Rex Stout does fit into that category.
Stout's great detective, Nero Wolfe, solves the case by simply asking a few questions and listening to the stories of the suspects involved.
It is usually a detail that the Wolfe figures out on his own but doesn't share with the reader that wins the day.
Even with these short comings, the stories are entertaining and doesn't take long to read.
Loved these three shorts.
The first one is a rare occurrence- Wolfe is out of the house.
He has been called to testify and after hearing enough decides (right before he has to gone on) to leave the smelly woman beside him and solve the case.
Archie explains that the smelly woman was wearing Passion's Flower and it costs 80 bucks an ounce.
The second one is a case of the dead come back to life to die again.
The third one gives us a surprise from Wolfe.
A dog follows Archie home, and to Archie's surprise- it doesn't bother Wolfe.
Book 26 in the Nero Wolfe series, and another trio of novellas: The Next Witness, When a Man Murders, and Die Like a Dog [in which the dog, a Labrador, does NOT die]. Nero has to leave his office in the first novella, having been subpoenaed to testify in a murder case, but he leaves the courtroom before being called to the stand and risks a bench warrant because he’s suddenly convinced that the defendant–who is not a client—is innocent. And in the third novella, it’s not the dog but a raincoat which is actually the third “witness.” It’s clever.

Archie is showing more smarts.
The three stories in this book were very good. My favorite was the last one, "Die Like a Dog".
Three shorter stories that have you shocked at sudden developments that give Wolfe the final piece of the puzzle
A collection of three really solid Nero Wolfe mysteries.Was concerned about the one with the dog, but it never got too cute or contrived. Hit just the right balance.
Archie comes off as a bit of jerk throughout, from calling a girl a "crack lover" merely because one of her bureau drawers isn't quite shut (nothing to do with today's lab-grown drugs of course!) to his snide remarks about Wolfe himself.
Fritz doesn't even get a look in!Title two, "When a Man Murders", was a bit better in the planning and execution (if I may use that term), but the last line made me want to throw it across the room.
All that buildup for such a damp squib!"Die Like a Dog" rounds off the trio with rather more interest than the other two and certainly is the best of this particular crop.
Outstanding!! I like the full novels better than these collections of three stories. This one’s best story was the last one- I absolutely loved it. If you like dogs, you’ll like it!! Would have been 4 stars if not for the great final story.
