https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45260.The_Naked_God
The end of otherwise excellent second book failed to make me as excited as what was going on before despite the cliffhanger.
And then the end came - out of nowhere and unexpectedly.It looks as if the author decided he wrote enough of nothing and pulled the Dex Ex Machina at the very last moment to quickly finish the tale.
How comes of all the numerous (and excellent) characters the book spent the majority of time on the most boring ones?
This happened to be his first published work with first book being quite good (if slow in the beginning spent on world-building) and excellent second one.
(Balancing those are one or two clunkers.) Also there are a lot of vividly drawn environments, and Hamilton has this knack of making a long infodump (like, say, the first chapter) interesting.It’s just that there are far too many threads and too much detail on the ones that don’t matter, and some are just discarded along the way.
I’m not sorry I read these, it’s just that I kind of wish I had done it some other time; a lot of exciting stuff came out in these four months (!) that I now have to play catch-up with.
In some way the Night’s Dawn Trilogy is comparable to “science fantasy” books like Edgar Rice Burroughs’ Barsoom (John Carter) series or C.S. Lewis’ Space Trilogy due to the inclusion of magical or supernatural elements like possession, ghosts and souls, not to mention the possessed characters wielding seemingly magical powers including conjuring things out of thin air.
I was quite pleased when I arrived at the end of the book and found the series to be an overwritten but fun read.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Over-the-Top SF: "The Naked God" by Peter F. Hamilton“I’m an appropriate companion personality for a girl your age, young missy. We spent all night ransacking that library to see what I should be like. You got any idea what it’s like watching eight million hours of Disney AVs?” In "The Naked God" by Peter F. HamiltonHamilton is giving Doc Smith a reboot. That’s what I thought of when I tried to read some of Hamilton back in the day and didn’t like it, namely "Night’s Dawn" trilogy.
Unfortunately The Night's Dawn trilogy is a huge, festering shamble where a few nuggets of interesting story is drowned in a horribly over-long stream of irrelevant and meandering side- and subplots.
It starts off ok, focusing on just one plotline, which leads up to a rather nice "?" moment, but then it seems like Hamilton lost all his marbles because the story loses all focus and coherence, and the only thing that kept me painfully reading the last 4000 pages was to find out how in the world he would be able to tie everything together in the end (which, regrettably turned out to be a big fizzling anticlimactic Deus Ex Machina disappointment).His male characters have an unfortunate tendency to be rather flat and Mary Sue-ish, and he can't really write female characters at all, but his vivid imagination makes for at least potentially interesting stories IMO.
Some superb parts, especially when the action is in space. The ground battles and activities tend to be mired in treacle/mud. Some conversations go on and on and onand on and on... Kill me now. The ending was hurried and loose ends wrapped up in a nice big bow very fast.This trilogy is my least favourite of all Hamilton has written. All of his other work is 4-10x better.WARNING: the first book in this series includes very graphically described torture and rape and mutilation (sometimes of teens and children!)
Without a doubt, one of the most entertaining,expansive, and satisfying trilogies I have ever had the pleasure of reading. Fun, smart, and fully realized, I can't remember the last time I had so much fun reading!
Ori de câte ori mă apropii de sfârșitul unei serii care mi s-a strecurat în suflet, ma agăț inconștient de fiecare capitol, fiecare pagină, fiecare paragraf, străduindu-mă să amân inevitabilul... Cam așa a fost și cu  Zeul adormit , ultima parte a trilogiei  Zorii nopții .Căutând cu disperare o soluție care să salveze omenirea din ghearele sufletelor ce amenință să nimicească întreaga civilizație umană, Confederația și Consensul edeniștilor se aliază și explorează orice variantă ce le-ar oferi s
In alte planuri narative, Quinn Dexter reușește să se infiltreze pe Pământ, plănuind aducerea Nopții asupra întregii Confederații, Campania Liberation de pe Ombey se transformă într-un coșmar sângeros, Valisk-ul este prins între tărâmuri, iar kiintii supraveghează îngrijorați strădaniile oamenilor.
Hamilton rămân uimitoare; vraja acestui volum este completată de descrierea culturii kiinte, iar conturarea mentalității Tyrathca și integrarea în poveste a rasei Mosdva aruncă lumină asupra volumelor precedente.
Nu aș putea spune că modul în care Hamilton încheie întreaga poveste a fost chiar pe placul meu, dar evoluția personajelor, dilemele etice ale acestora, spectaculoasele scene spațiale, originalitatea intrigii și complexitatea întregii serii mi-a amăgit nemulțumirea.
It takes a while to get into the actual meat of the story, and a lot of it is honestly kind of smutty.
By the end of the book though, I was completely hooked.
There are a lot of characters and subplots keeping the story fresh, though it can be confusing to try to keep track of everyone.
Hamilton more or less ties everything together in the end; I think the Deus Ex Machina ending actually fits due to the overwhelming despair and hopelessness portrayed in the books.
The third volume of the Night's Dawn trilogy suffers the same flaws as the previous two; it is over-long and has too many characters leading to over a dozen endings (maybe - I didn't actually count) rather than a neat conclusion.
Much of the time instead of enjoying the current scene I was wondering what was going on elsewhere with other characters, only to get back there and find myself wondering what was going on elsewhere with even more other characters.
The ending is obvious to readers of the first two volumes just from the title of the third, at least in principle and rather unsatisfying.
It feels as if Hamilton's ambition was not quite matched by his skill.
My main problems with this trilogy were that it was too long, it followed too many protagonists, the main conflict was entirely unsatisfying and it ended poorly.Each of the three books is about a thousand pages.
There were a number of characters who were uninteresting and didn't contribute much to the overall story who nevertheless received page counts devoted to their PoV that would be considered lavish in novels that didn't go over a thousand pages.As for the main plot, let's just say the author pulled a bait and switch some time in the second novel regarding what the whole series was about.
The series itself is full of misogyny, has a blatant self insert as a main character who every woman finds super sexy and who solves everything amazingly perfectly but it has enjoyable moments and although the set up is kind of ridiculous there are some cool ideas - the series has REALLY cool aliens, comparatively, who are actually sketched interestingly and I really liked the scenes they were in.
IIRC they go to the "good" afterlife this time but there's a specific point about humans "not being responsible" enough or something so they couldn't do things "properly" but it was an absurd solution to a big built up point and to the entire plot of the books - like 2 pages "right they're gone now we don't have to deal with that, thanks god".
These books have been an integral part of my life.For the last year and a half, I have been slowly burning my way through.Other books came and went, but at the end of the day, The Reality Dysfunction and associated novels were waiting by my bedside, ready to guide me into the night with tales of horror, space, love, and humanity.
Who knows.A word about Peter Hamilton.
Its amazing, and he has my highest regards.And of the book?
Joshua, you amazing man.
But I do want to say this.Thank you, Peter Hamilton.
Thank you so very much.With this, a chapter of my life closes.
Deus ex machina.What should an author do when his story has run amok, subdividing into dozens of storylines of dimishing value to the overall plot that would require another 3500 pages to resolve individually? Yeah, but at least it is over. I am grateful I did not tackle this before enjoying Hamilton's good works; after eating this rotten elephant, I would not have been able to bring myself to risk another.I did enjoy myself from time to time, so maybe it is just me. But don't say I didn't warn you.
Each volume is as long, if not longer, than many trios of science fiction novels - the classic Foundation Trilogy is less than half the length of The Naked God. With that length (which is the most obvious distinguishing feature of the series), there is a concomitant vastness of scale: hundreds of characters, spanning several universes and thousands of light years.
The series is about what might happen to us after death, how we might be able to return to a kind of life, what a spirit or soul might be, all dressed up as exciting space opera.To summarise a plot of such scope in a few words is hard; indeed, several attempts to review earlier novels of the trilogy foundered on this rock.
I read over 3500 pages of fun for THAT?*****MASSIVE SPOILERS DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT FINISHED THE BOOK****...Oh, yay, a magical wormhole transport cleared the universe of possessed people!
No worries, Joshua will TELEPORT to her side at the end using new found god powers!
None of the solutions for dealing with the possessed were future-proof.Even if the memory erasing device had worked, and eradicated every soul in the Beyond....
The damn thing isn't a permanent solution and not a single character in the book addressed this.
What about the thousands of new people who die every day?
I read this sometime in the early to mid '00s.Like every Peter Hamilton trilogy I have read, this one was really good - until the last third of the final book, at which point it always feels like Hamilton says to himself, "Oh, shit, now I've gone and put myself into a corner?
It's so sad, because I know if he put a little effort into it, he could write a wonderful and imaginative ending - but as it is, it feels like a cheap shot.
But I keep hoping and keep buying his books in hopes that maybe, this one, this time ...
Awful conclusion to a brilliant first book that showed so much promise. Yes the ending was foreshadowed but it feels like a cop out and it ruins the whole meaning of the saga. We were supposed to solve this moral and philosophical crisis of souls. Not a god in the machine.
But what exactly is it, and more importantly, where is it as it was only hinted at in some old recordsSo we have Al Capone with his possessed legions waging war on Earth, Quinn Dexter seeking to rule the universe and prepare for the coming of the bringer of light as the main antagonists.
Thrown into the mix are the two Kavanaugh sisters Genevieve and Louise who are trying to keep one step ahead of Quinn Dexter who has possessed their father.There are epic battles, bravery beyond recognition, the odd surprising twist and fundamentally excellent story telling through outThis is an epic theme to cover and there are many entertaining characters throughout the book.Having now read all the books in this trilogy; I HIGHLY RECOMMEND ALL BOKS IN THIS TRILOGY
And of course I almost got diabetes from the contrived and saccharine way everything is put right in the end.It's been said that Hamilton is a great setup artist that never quite manages to stick the landing.
At the end, the great grandmother of all (literal) gods out of the machine just puts everything right, with a little help from the series' superhero-cum-Messiah-cum-Han-Solo.
And the end of course contradicts all that's gone before.
The solution has to come from within, it can't come from without." And in the end of course, the answer comes from without.
But I finished it two weeks ago, and I think my relief at just being DONE has overwhelmed any real need to review it.
I never did come back to review it -- I think, after getting through it, I was so exhausted by it that I didn't have anything to say.However, I do look at this series as one of the best I've read, despite how sprawling the universe is and how out of control the characters are.
I've returned to it briefly a couple of times intending to re-read it, but never gotten past a couple of chapters.
I don't want to go into the exact details, but lets suffice it to say it wasn't quite how I was thinking the trilogy would end.
Interesting plot threads twining together, great settings that are breathtaking, interesting and real characters, and of course cool space battles.We are treated to some fairly earth shaking revelations about human society in this chapter, and even a little vaguely Lovecraftian jeopardy toward the end.
All in all its a very solid ending to what was a thrilling and epic saga of humanity in the future.
The final volume of the 'Night's Dawn' trilogy does everything you'd expect a final installment to do - all the plot strands are neatly wound up and the book is finished with satisfaction that everything's sorted one way or another.
He spent nearly a thousand pages in the first book, introducing us to the story character by character, but ultimately resorts to deus ex machina to solve the plot and complete the story, in what felt like a startling brief 100 odd pages.
After 3000 or more pages, I felt the reader desrves more of an ending.Ultimately though, it's a great series.
Hamilton tradition actually just one book, but published in three parts.In this book some people think they have a way to deal with the possession and mount on an expedition to find some ancient god/alien intelligence.
But in here you also have the liberation of a continent taken over by possessed humans, the power struggle of a planet run like a gang by possessed, encounters between possessed, edenist humans and a philosophizing alien life form, A struggle between an all powerful government organisation and a satanist with actual powers, etc...A lot of these books are about how people and humankind would react under the stress of a very real and reality altering menace.
Awesome books.
FINALLY. The first half of the end of this trilogy flew by quickly. Then the second half spun its wheels in what seemed like an attempt to fill enough pages to match the size of the other two volumes. Luckily, once the conclusion started (approximately 75-100 pages from the end) everything started to fall into place very quickly. I found the end very satisfying - not always an easy feat in a long-running story.
I was amazed and disappointed that in a series of 3,000 pages, Hamilton could blow the ending(s). The series as a whole is still an amazing, mind-blowing, metaphysical read that I would HIGHLY recommend. I may have to re-read them again and maybe I will have a kinder view of The Naked God.
Eh, look, if you've read the rest of the series, you'll need the closure. But it's a somewhat dull slog, with lots of disconnected and largely unrelated storylines, and only the most tenuous reconnection at the end. Also: deus ex machina endings just about never work.
Just way too long. Review coming soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
Doc Smith for the 21st C.! Good resolution for the series, silly but compelling. 3.5 stars
The series would have been just as cool with a few less plot threads and a few hundred less pages.
Hamilton got me hooked in the first book and kept me interested enough to see it through, which is saying something for a trilogy that's sprawls to about 3,500 pages.
The character development is satisfying for the most part, although I'd like to hear a little more about why Joshua changes his ways.
The "big picture" stuff is there in an even bigger way in this one.
