https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/868561.The_Fifty_Minute_Hour
I found this book fascinating because I'm fascinated by psychoanalysis.
The book was similar to "Love's Executioner" by Yalom -- a series of short "stories" about the psychoanalyst-turned-author's most interesting cases.
This book was a little more interesting than Yalom's because it had to do with cases Lindner had while he was working as a prison psychiatrist but I thought Yalom's was better written.
Of course, the common link between both of them is the sometimes patronizing tone of voice that comes across...
I guess psychoanalysts have to have a sort of god-complex to do their work.
"His experiences with the nymphomaniac governess had catapulted him into premature adulthood..."Nuff said.
What to say about this book....first off I enjoyed it.
It is a book where the author (a psychoanalyst in the pure Freudian approach) shares five case studies.
The author writes well, he is descriptive enough that you seem to have a full understanding of each case.
From a voyeuristic perspective it was fun to read about some difficult clients and how the author worked with each one.
If you are not a fan of Freudian techniques then this is not the book for you.
If you can enjoy dream analysis, problems with parents and sexuality, then you may find this to be a fun read.
linder is kind of arrogant, and this book reeks of all the stereotypes of psychoanalysis that i rebel against. however. i do want to finish it - i might skip ahead of the first case study that is driving me crazy and move on to another one, but i think i'll take a break and deal with another therapist first.
robert linder's psychoanalysis practice...
case studies of some of his most interesting patients.
i got bogged down by all the psychoanalysis, which i am "ambivolent" about (psychoanalysts like that word).
i would have given the book 2 stars, but the last case study made it the read worth it for me.
about a missile scientist with an active fantasy life.
an improvement over his isolated life as a lonely kid and a lonely scientist.
linder doesn't solely employ psychoanalytic techniques to treat this patient.
this also makes the case more interesting to me than the others.
Five stories from the world of couch-style 1940s psychoanalysis, back when every psychological problem was secretly about parricide and incest. Lindner is engaging and selects often fascinating case studies that (he claims, anyway) come from his actual experience, first at a federal penitentiary, then in private practice. I think this book is the godfather of the "strange, true tales of psychology" genre in general, and it's interesting both in itself and for its historical value.
i also got this book at the cat back surgery fundraiser. it's a bantam book, listed price $.35. i got it for $.33. score. its about psychoanalytical "tales". it says it's a disturbing book. i was intrigued by the title. and i like how the title was in all undercaps or under case as it may be. it's a small paperback and i liked the authors signature also. its about murder and other bad stuff that people do. the "pitiful" and "lost individuals" reaching to return to normalcy. i'm rambling.
This is quite interesting, if you can get past the fact that it's incredibly dated. Seriously, does anyone believe in psychoanalysis anymore? But it provides insights both into Lindner's patients and into the state of psychology/psychiatry in the forties and fifties. I would recommend this only to people with a special interest in the topic.
Wow, what a great book. This is the predecessor of Yalom's Love's Executioner. It is a wonderful tail of psychoanalytic case studies from a professional who is a master story teller. It was written in the 1950's and is very poignant today. It's an easy read and only cost a couple of bucks on amazon. Check it out and enjoy the stories and their impact on how you conceptualize cases.
One psychotherapists compilation of several patient encounters and his analytical interpretations. Little dated and sluggish for current times - quint. One bizzare tranferance where author gets emeshed into his patients future-space fantasy -
i totally enjoyed reading this book. keep in mind if any of you choose to read this the author is a fruedian so every thing roots itself in sex. i especially enjoyed the last case but all of them are interesting as hell.
I read this the first time I really went to Mexico and on the buses it blew my mind. Something about this is really evocative and fifties and almost post-apocalyptic to me. I am a sucker for therapy stories and this was my first.
this was a very interesting book,it shows that everybody no matter how sane they are can have a brush with insanity themselves.i would rate this book about a 3.75.
This was an eye opener....especially case number 5.
I had to read this for an Abnormal Psych class, but it was interesting.
I read this book for psychology class I took in college. My favorite section in the book was called "The Jet-Propelled Couch." I found it to be a very interesting read.
Excellent book for those interested in the twisted mind.
Interesting case studies, a number of which focus on the forensic population which holds less clinical interest.
I read this because Jonathan and his other psychologist friends highly recommended it. I didn't find it as good as they made it out to be.
fascinating case studies of a shrink's most extremely troubled and bizarre cases...
Fascinating tales from a psychoanalyst's couch, slow at a few points, but all in all, an eye opening look at the work of a talented analyst and writer.
Just saw this mentioned on BoingBoing. It sounds fantastic! Ive got to track it down.Someone buy it for me? ;)
Of greatest interest is the section "The Jet-Propelled Couch" about a crack up of a scientist who worked on the Bomb.
Kind of a weird book. A couple of the stories really interested me, but I didn’t like reading the pages and pages of backstory and history of sexual abuse that was written about most of the patients. For that reason, it was hard to get through sometimes, but it was an interesting read. I liked reading Lindner’s explanations for his patients’ problems sort of like reading a puzzle, even though the explanations were usually always the same.
You have to be into psychology / psychoanalysis to enjoy their type of book. Not Yalom (the god of this genre) but very decent read.
Книга написана терапевтом-психоаналитиком Робертом Линднером более 60 лет назад, но показалась мне актуальной и сегодня!
Я очень люблю читать истории из терапевтической практики, в этой книге их всего 5, но каких!
О том, что такие вещи случаются с людьми мне было трудно даже представить!
А то, что подобные извращения психики можно вылечить с помощью психоанализа, и подавно кажется научной фантастикой!
Очень грустно, но есть и надежда, пока есть терапевты, подобные Линдрену.
Например то, что человек с делюзионной идеей может излечиться, встретив человек с такой же делюзионной идеей!
Но даже человеку не изучающему психологию эта книга будет интересна, если его интересуют люди и их жизни!
If not convenient, theses cases at least appear conveniently selected.The book is highly readable, much more literary than scientific, though bits of psychoanalytic jargon get dropped throughout.
This granddaddy of psychoanalytic case studies for a popular sauce is basically a pulp novel.
In particular the author's approach to human sexuality in general (and to the topics of sexual orientation and child sexual abuse specifically) feels like a product of its time.(*...
and if they existed outside the author's imagination.(Somehow these neat stories are less credible than the ones Susie Orbach makes no secret of constructing from whole cloth.)Yet I do take away from this book a message about human wellness: kindness matters.
Although many of the cases presented in this book boil down to unsolved Oedipal issues, it's still a great book both for the psychologist and the untrained person alike.
For the most part, Lindner tells the background of his patients and the facts occuring during the analysis, but not the psychoanalyst's insights.
Yet, for what it might lack in insightfulness, it makes for in the "exotism" of the presented cases ( the first and the last being my favorites ).
I rated this book so high because it was one of the first books I read about therapy when I was in high school.
At the time I was convinced I wanted to be a physician.
This book reminded me of a time when working with people was new and exciting and awe-inspiring.For a book written in the 1950s, it is interesting how many times I found myself relating my experiences in the therapy office with the author's.
At times he struggles with the patients he sees, sometimes he has issues with time management, boundary issues with patients, and how he conceptualizes the patient's issues.
I came across this book on my local library's used book for sale shelf, and couldn't put it down over the weekend.
The cases recorded in the book have a thriller quality to them, making the book a compulsive read.
I was reading it more as a fiction than nonfiction likely because of the extremity of the characters portrayed in the book.
They are simply not people one expects to come across in a non-fictional world.
The writing is really good, which is a plus to someone like me who is vaguely skeptical of the Freudian psychoanalytic approach, but wouldn't miss a fun read for anything.
