https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13994.Winds_of_Fury
And so the Taleydras and gryphons come to Valdemar, and both Falconsbane and Ancar are finally defeated.
We get some very good revenge, some epic pairings and best of all this leads into the next set of books, which I skipped and read out of order haha.
This feels like a kind of bridging series; after a while Mercedes writing becomes more polished and distinct and you get elements in this one.
I will freely admit that the Owlmage books are my favorite series, and this series lays down some of the foundations for them.Another great Valdemar series, although I feel a little worn down by them at the moment.
Still not sure if I want to read anything else though, I'm a bit stuck!
No, this isn't very literary in quality, but I find myself rereading the series every few years, because I like the characters and the world Lackey created.
I don't think this trilogy has quite the same verve as the original Arrows of the Queen trilogy, and isn't as moving as the trilogy with Vanyel that starts with Magic's Pawn.
So if you're new to Lackey or the Valdemar series, go read the other books first.
But if you've read the other books in this series and trilogy, I think you won't find this conclusion to the trilogy involving Elspeth disappointing.
The first book had Elspeth the Heir.
The second book had Elspeth the Brat.
The third book has Elspeth the Herald, or, as I like to think, Elspeth, the "being heir no longer fits in with my life goals even thought I'm not sure what those are yet".
As you can tell, Elspeth is not my favorite character.
It was a bit interesting seeing the reaction, in Haven, to the exotic people, both human and non-human, that she returns with.
But I end up feeling disappointed about how Lackey wrote Skif in these three books and not over impressed by the Hawksbrothers.
Mercedes Lackey's third book of the Mage Wind's series was a satisfying conclusion. I like the way Mercedes builds a main character's journey through these Valdemar trilogy sets. Elspeth was a great character to get to know and watch grow in some ways. Some of the story resolutions were rushed, and other pieces a little drawn out, but overall I enjoyed many of these characters. Knowing her writing style, I doubt I'll see them much in other books except as auxillary characters, which is a shame because I'd like to witness their further development.
Everyone in this book is a BAMF. Some minor complaints, but excellent on the whole.
Mercedes has created the fabulous world of Valdemar. It is chock full of Magic,mystery,romance,suspense. One of the best fantasy series I've ever read.
Elspeth and her lover, Darkwind return with Skif and Nyara to Valedemar.
But then my favorite pair and their offspring decide to go along, and I stopped being resentful about leaving all the griffins I did not know to stay with the ones I have come to love.We have a brief stay in the forest of Sadness or somesuch, populated by the shades of the First Herald Mage and his partner who called down the mage ban in Valedemar.
I'm a little surprised that Firesong doesn't take more pity on her and keep the Heralds off of her, but there is still a thread of jealousy regarding Darkwind.
In "Winds of Fury," Lackey brings the "Mage Winds" trilogy to an appropriately magical close.
Really, anything you might want.In fact, it's fascinating that communion with non-human animals is such a feature in fantasy literature.
If we (not so) secretly want to commune with non-human animals, we can't be all bad, can we?Anyway, where was I?
Oh yes, "Winds of Fury." A very satisfying conclusion to the "Mage Winds" trilogy, and one that deals with a lot of the same stuff as the previous books; e.g., the problem of Self vs.
I've reread this book SOOOOO many times.
And every time I read it, I am disappointed in the ending.
We get such a buildup for Ancar and Hulda (Arrows trilogy) and Falconsbane (Winds) that the finale seems rushed.
If they could have sent in a small strike team to strike at Ancar YEARS earlier, why didn't they???
One thing that I do love about this is that we see Hulda's deeper intentions with the Empire, which sets up the next series.My continued issue with all of the Valdemar novels is that the villains have zero redeeming qualities.
It's hard to read on the reread sometimes.
This book was fine, but not particularly impressive.
It was generally enjoyable to read, but everything felt a bit rushed (which I couldn't find much of an excuse for because the build up to get into the story took forever at the beginning of the book, and the book itself was pretty long).
In particular, I thought that relationships that were dynamic before became somewhat two-dimensional, and foes that were built up to be formidable opponents were readily dispatched without much explanation or sacrifice.
Still, it was a neat and tidy resolution of the series, and it felt satisfying to finish.
Since I was 14...The land over Valdemar has held me in thrall. The Last Herald Mage series is what spoke most to my heart. Vanyel was an inspiration to me and still is my favorite literary figure. I was very happy to see that his progeny were featured in these book set 700 years after his time. Firesong and Elspeth do him justice in their strength and ingenuity. Thank you Mercedes for inspiring generation after generation and many more to come with your literary whit and style. You are loved by many you never knew existed. 👄
Alright I found my tolerance for gratuitously evil, and it's a bit below the breathlessly power obsessed villains here. The previous books didn't spend as much time on that perspective even though there's all kinds of horrible stuff hinted at (to the expense of any conscientious S&M practitioner), but here they're enough of a viewpoint where it's like...euuirk. The world building and exploration of tropes is fine, I just am not a fan of that degree of unambiguousness even in my escapism.
Though I liked the first of this trilogy best, with it's focus on Darkwind, an Aragorn-like figure in that volume, I thought this was a tightly written plot. I thought the denouement was excellent...not a super long drawn out affair that one so often reads (or scans rapidly).The characters have become old friends. Their development is believable and compelling.I wish to return to Darkwind's land of origin, though, and not sure that will happen in an sequels.
"We will do well wherever we go. Home should be in your heart."An awesome end to an awesome trilogy. I loved seeing what happens to Falconsbane, and getting to see how everything plays out with Valdemar's magical wards coming down. From how much I hated Elspeth in the Arrows of the Queen trilogy, to how annoying I found her even at the beginning of this trilogy, she has grown into such an amazing woman and an awesome character.
There were several elements of this trilogy that I enjoyed: all the fantastic creatures, the various types of magic, the settings. But it felt like too many elements were being thrown into the story at once, and there were references to books I have not read yet (because I'm trying to read them in order). I think that causes some confusion, and for me, boredom. Not one of her better works.
FreedomAndesha lost all he was when a evil adept took over his body. Used him to hurt others and to experiment on his own body. Fought back with all his spirit and earned his freedom from darkness.
Winds of FuryElspeth and friends get back to Haven when Deceased Herald Vaugel caught FireSoungs gate and brought them to the forest of sorrows Wgith a mission to kill the leaders in Hardon the group whet and prevailed
So satisfying. This is the best series of Valdemar in my opinion.
I finished reading all the Valdemar series by Mercedes Lackey - over 30 books in two months. I enjoyed them all!
2.8/5
2.5 will review at www.fantasyliterature.com
Skimmed for ending of arc. Just leads to next bad trilogy :(
A bit of a let-down - all of the action happened in the last 10% of the book.
Love itThis is the conclusion of the trilogy, and it handles itself well. I loved this book, and this author. Yes.
A fun read. I love that the Valdemar series continues through another protagonist's eyes.
(What can I say, MPD and DID have been pet interests of mine for a long while now.) An'desha appealed to me from the moment he was introduced for that reason alone, and that was just helped along when we got to see his backstory, find out how his body was taken over by Falconsbane/Ma'ar, and more interestingly, just how he managed to keep his own personality intact while quietly sharing headspace with an ancient psychopath.If there's one thing about this book that irks me, though, it was actually the divine intervention that did it.
Lackey writes action and battle/fight scenes incredibly well, but this book seriously lacks action and is very heavy on character rumination.
The bad guys are super bad and the good guys are super good, it's just not interesting to read about characters that are portrayed this way, there's no depth and complexity.
In addition, the narrative is split over way too many characters.
I'm not entirely sure what Ancar's narrative added to the story other than showing/telling the reader what a super duper bad guy he is.
It would have been interesting to have read seeds of An'desha's story in the first or second book.
Unfortunately, upon the characters' return the reader discovers they've missed an entire subplot wherein good characters do actually interesting things that I'd have rather read about than some of the events which appeared in the earlier 'winds' books.In any case, while the book starts strong, it quickly gets repetitive.
I'm not sure why the author felt it was constantly necessary to remind the reader what she'd already established in earlier scenes, since the reader seems more capable of recalling the details about this world than she does.Unfortunately the last few chapters of the book are disappointing.
There are some new books added to the series since the last time I read them, so this re-reading project is pretty exciting for me since it will include these new volumes, and will be in a new order.
In my re-reading project, I am going to try to read them chronologically - not by publication date, but by their timeline within the series.Of the Mage Winds trilogy, this is probably the strongest book.
I really adore this series, and I remember well my excitement when I bought this book in hardcover and read it for the first time.
