https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11208.How_the_Garc_a_Girls_Lost_Their_Accents
How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accent is Julia Alvarez fictionalized account of her childhood when she moved with her family from the Dominican Republic to New York following the 1960 Trujillo revolution.
I fell in love with Julia Alvarez' writing when I was in high school and college studying Latin American culture.
All the girls attend boarding school to learn to be Americans, and wow their cousins with the new found culture that they obtain.
Yet, the Garcia Girls is what put Alvarez on the Latin American writing stage.
The book moves backwards in time, and the younger the girls got, the more interested I became in their characters.
I especially liked reading about their lives before they moved to the States.
My favorite part was the description of their family as a shared community: "We lived in each other’s houses, staying for meals at whatever table we were closest to when dinner was put out, heading home only to take our baths and go to bed…"Favorite Quotes: (about childhood)…the wonder of the world seizing me with such fury at times that I had to touch forbidden china cups or throttle a little cousin or pet a dog’s head so strenuously that he looked as if he were coming out of the birth canal… The Catholic sisters at Our Lady of Perpetual Sorrows Convent School were teaching me to sort the world like laundry into what was wrong and right……three black cars idling in the driveway like great, nervous, snorting horses.
I read it on my way to Tucson last week, so I already latin food and culture on my mind!I really liked the way this book moved backwards in time, working its way from Yolanda's trip back to the Dominican Republic in the 1990's to her childhood on the island in the 1960's.
Still, I would like to read more of Alvarez's work and have added "In the Time of Butterflies" to my "to read" list.
Of course as soon as I finished I had to pull out my old journal from 1999 and re-read my entries from the time I spent in the Dominican.
I enjoyed this quite a lot, but I really think it should have been marketed as a book of short stories.
It's also very obvious that many of these stories were originally published separately, as there's a lot of repeated background info, introducing characters as if we've never met them before when it's the fifth time they've appeared, etc.
There are also a handful of stories in first person, when the majority are third person, and that kind of makes it feel patched together, too.
It was disconcerting and a very strange choice.)[return][return]Anyway, I really did enjoy the individual stories quite a lot, and found the book hard to put down.
However, as I read on I could not get myself to distinguish between the four Garcia girls: Carla, Sophia, Sandra, and Yolanda.
After reading most of the book I was still unable to tell one girl from the others.Also, I thought that the sequence of the stories was very hard to follow.
When a man with no pants telling Carla to “C’moninere” is followed by radioactivity causing “the bones in our arms to go soft” with no transition between the two, the reader loses the fact that the stories are supposed to be connected.
Las chicas García ya no tienen sus acentos, más bien su español se ha vuelto diferente, pero el libro nos va condiciendo hacia atrás, hasta antes de que se fueran a vivir a Estados Unidos, obligadas por una situación política en la que su padre se veía amenazado y vamos desentrañando sus vidas.
Durante todo el libro, tenemos historias de las cuatro hermanas: el matrimonio de Sofría, Fifi, que hizo enojar a su padre y con el que apenas se está reconciliando después, de, cómo no, darle a su primer nieto varón; los problemas de Sandi, Sandra, que estuvo internada en un psiquiátrico después de una decepción; de como Yolanda se siente extremadamente liberal dentro de su familia, pero frente a la libertad estadounidense sigue siendo más conservadora y finalmente de Carla y los zapatos rojos.
But it's one of those works of fiction that isn't really about anything in particular.
Readers spend time with alternating Garcia girls in random order throughout a portion of their lives.
The chapters are connected by the fact that one or more Garcia girl is featured in each of them, but you could read them in any order you wanted without impacting the reading experience.
I didn't grow attached to anyone in particular.
How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents is a well written series of scattered moments in the lives of girls who become women who become the memory of a book you once read.
Maybe 3.5 stars. It was told in reverse chronological order, by a few different viewpoints, which got a bit confusing. Interesting novel about four sisters who grew up in the Dominican Republic and New York, and how their lives change because of that.
I absolutely loved this book.
It's set up like a series of short stories about the family told in reverse chronological order.
Here's why I loved it:1.
Even as a second-generation Latino immigrant the stories resonated strongly with me.
It was refreshing to see a loving father in the Latin-American genre.
I feel like the few books that I've read always have either an absent or deadbeat dad figure.
3 It had a wonderful cast of four sisters who manage to be strong independent women even in difficult circumstances, like a country and family with old-fashioned customs and beliefs.
I think this is a great read if you want to learn about the immigrant experience. If you'd like to see how subtly machismo and anti-blackness enters the daily lives of latinx families but how powerful they are, this would also be a good read.
As the title suggests, How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents, is about four Dominican girls who moves to America and adjusting to the American culture, in terms of language, academics, and living standards.
All four girls can be described as extremely rebellious again their family and traditional values, where there are sex, drugs, and criminal actions were involoves, such as stealing.
As a result, this new American life for the Garcia girls helped them see how important it is to never forget their tradition and family values.
The novel follows the lives of four sisters named Carla, Sandra, Yolanda, and Sofía who immigrate to the United States with their mother and father from the Dominican Republic.
Likewise, Alvarez uses symbolism to describe how it is difficult for immigrants to feel whole and connected to their home country once they return.
Also, Yolanda’s search for guavas when she visits the Dominican Republic as an adult also symbolizes another troubling immigrant experience.
Therefore, if someone who is not an immigrant decides to read this novel, they may not understand the underlying messages of identity and culture Alvarez is attempting to send.
Personally, I believe “How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents” by Julia Alvarez is a pretty weak book. Her inspiration from the book came from real life experiences as she lived in the Dominican Republic the first ten years of her life until she had to flee due to her Father’s participation in a political rebellion. Although this book depicts her real life quite well, I don’t feel Julia does such a great job of getting her true emotions across by jumping from one story to another. Also, I find
Personally, I believe “How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents” by Julia Alvarez is a pretty weak book.
The four girls are four different individuals, but throughout this book I constantly feel I can tell who is who.
Although it sets up rebellion and they are different, I would just rather the four girls break apart more than they did.Although, “How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents” was not terrible to read by any means and did get a somewhat entertaining story across, I feel the writing style of short stories didn’t portray their stories quite as well as a novel would have.
Any amazing portrayal about a family from the Dominican Republic moving to New York.
One great part about this book is that it isn't from only one person's perspective.
Some people might like to know this information up front, to understand a character's life chronologically.
Only once we start getting to know them and their past do we understand them and what prompted them to come to our great country.
And this is the experience the reader encounters in this book.
I know it only received average ratings on this website, but I think it is amazing.
And as with a lot of minority authors, I don’t see why they have to focus on only negative experiences.
I’m sure the Garcia girls had a lot of good experiences which shaped them, but Alvarez chose only to focus on the negative.
Every other story was about someone’s first time having sex or someone being molested – it got very old after a while.One thing I did appreciate was how distinct each of the girls’ voices were.
And Alvarez did a wonderful job of evolving the girls’ voices as they grew older.
Structurally, it's a collection of inter-connected short stories (which isn't the "unlike any book before" part), and instead of moving forward chronologically, the collection moves back in time.
And I feel I need to read and read and read, too, because I dont have that much time left.
And that’s not the least of it, she wouldn’t put a book down, read, read, read.
It "feels" different, more complete, more complex, more characters.The story is autobiographical, and it must be quite true to the details, because after it was published, Alvarez's mother refused to speak to her for a while.
This definitely falls into a "Immigration Story" text as well as a "Coming of Age (one of the few that I've read that have women as the main character)" and has some elements of "Historic Fiction." Challenges: The method of section organization, while intriguing, must be introduced through a pre-read in order to fully appreciate the style.
Student in mind: While I have a knee jerk reaction to recommend this to my Central and South American students (I would still recommend it to them), I actually thought about some, seemingly, very different people: Ebla and Amino who came to this country from Somalia, and Joyce whose parents moved to New York from China.
This is the story of sisters who were born into the lap of luxury in South America and then were forced to migrate to North America for political reasons.
While the family was forced to flee due to political turmoil, the girls were sheltered by their parents.
They had a wealthy family who continued to want them and support them and welcome them on their return visits.
Nothing actually happened to these girls that were not of their own making or in their own minds.
The Women's National Book Association sent this book to the White House today (March 20) in honor of Women's History Month: https://www.wnba-centennial.org/book-...From the Women's National Book Association's press release:When political upheavals force the Garcia family to flee to the U.S. from their home in the Dominican Republic, they exchange their privileged former life for a modest existence in the Bronx.
Alvarez tells the story of their adjustment to a new culture in a backwards chronology, focusing on the very different experiences of parents and children.
The four Garcia daughters embrace their new life while their parents find it difficult to make the transition.
i had to read this book for school, and it was okay.i really liked the writing style, and i liked the character development we see throughout the novel.i didn't like the fact that each of the chapters were very episodic. none of them really fit together to tell an overarching plot. and we never really got to know the characters, just their stories, which is another thing that bothered me. this book was okay, but i would recommend it if you're interested in reading it.
I chose to read this book for an independent reading project for English class; we had a list of authors to choose from and I'd been meaning to read something by Alvarez for a while, plus I own a copy.
So I brought it on a long road trip and read the entire thing in the car (luckily I don't get carsick when I read in the car anymore, heh heh).I thought it was a beautiful book––amazing writing, a believable and emotional story, great characters.
It really sucked me in and gripped me the whole time.
I'm glad I chose this book for my final English project, because I can actually be enthusiastic about it.
This felt more like a collection of short stories than a novel, although the short stories were about the same 4 sisters. It read like they should be separate and we didn't have to read one to know what was going on in the others, and kept being "reintroduced" to people we already knew. I almost didn't finish it, but wanted to see whether it would redeem itself. Disappointing.
boo
The novel reads as a collection of short stories, not following an all-revealing line, but just separate episodes from the lives of one family.
The family has to move to the USA following political persecution at some point in the girls' childhood, and adapting is hard.
I didn't find that an issue, I think they tend to be more similar only as the story goes deeper into childhood, but by and large they are quite distinct.
This is the story of a family, focusing on four sisters, that moved from the Dominican Republic (to escape Trujillo) to New York.
There's a lot to delve into here: the experience of moving to a new country, family dynamics within and outside of that experience, acculturating, etc.
Also, the character development of the four girls was somewhat shallow; one character stood out (Yolanda), but the rest blended together and I had trouble telling them apart at times.
I would have enjoyed it more if the characters had been better developed or if the story focused more on one of the girls with the others as minor characters.
The book follows the lives of the four girls and their parents as they each get accustomed to life in New York.
The book felt disjointed, it read more like a collection of short stories than an overall book.
At the end of the book, I could hardly remember one specific thing about each Garcia girl as they all seemed to be one entity.
However, if you, like me, have an affinity for books that explores the immigrant experience, especially the experience of a Caribbean National then you might want to give this book a read.
I enjoyed this book the first time I read it but I enjoyed it even more when I reread it.
Since I read this for the first time we have had an explosion of discussions in this country about immigration.
With that perspective I realized that I had glossed over the effects of immigration on this family and they immigrated legally with some language skills and employment.
However, fleeing Trujillo obviously added a traumatic element.I also enjoyed the backwards time line more the second time.
I enjoyed everything about this book except for their preference for Russell Stover chocolates.Fanny May is the obvious way to go.


Hmmmm.
