https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826525.Gray_Lensman
I thought, perhaps, that the "so called" golden age of sci-fi before Heinlein would be as painful to read as the old Jules Verne.
I even tried to read the first ten pages of the first book of the Lensman of E.
And yet, all of my favorite past couple of generations of sci-fi authors swore by the old doc, and there are still generations of readers that are surprised and delighted by the stories.
I buckled down, gritted my teeth, and picked up the fourth without so much as reading eleven pages of the first three.
I was plainly amazed and giddy in the reading of these little serialized bubblegum stories of sci-fi heroes.
This is an old science fiction series and I have experienced difficulty in finding all the volumes at the appropriate time.
As a result, I had given up on finding this volume and went ahead and read the remainder.
Then surprisingly, just before Christmas, I found Gray Lensman in my local second-hand book store.
For that reason alone, I actually kind of like these old space operas, which bring me happy memories of my past.These are not great science fiction novels compared to some of the masters of the genre today, but they are where sci-fi got its start and are interesting to me for that reason.
Kinnison poses as both a high society man and as an asteroid prospector with a weakness for booze and the drug bentlam, using planets as weapons, deducing what other galaxy has to be a problem*, a discussion of a Kipling poem, the problems that teething causes when you use a regenerative technology, a Dr. Phillips dubbed so in self-defense, so they didn't have to pronounce his real name, and more.*Because it's the only other one to have a significant number of planets.
Old science said they had to be rare, and Smith posited a collision of two galaxies to provide the number he needed.
Recently I have been revisiting some of the classic science fiction that I read as a teenager via audiobook.
Whatever dreadful things happen to the good guys then there is (immediately) a scientific breakthrough to make it all as good as new.The truth is that I have grown out of this sort of childish writing and need something with more depth now that I have reached my adult years.
If you were to reclassify this book for teenagers then it may have some worth but it has certainly put me off returning to the other books in the series.
You see I had recently been turned on to the comic series GL Corps, as this SF adventure book is a modern classic as it's very Edgar Rice Burroughs meets Hill Street Blues IN SPACE.The more I read the GLC, the more I was interested in what had happened before I started reading (that's how they get ya').
It was fascinating, and apparently most of it comes directly from the forward to this book in the series [see, cheaters may not prosper but their reads might].The little article in question talked about how the Lensman story arc, sure, like how epic this story is, how amazingly encompassing.
You have compressed layers of awesome, then quaint silliness, and then just painfully awkward moments.The awesome (important: this is "awesome" in the summer blockbuster movie sense): science-be-damned space battles that do not screw around, informed from that early 40's "throw enough scientists and engineers at a problem, and they can do absolutely anything" mindset.
This is the awesome bit:Simultaneously with that, the entire planetary law enforcement resources who've been tailing and following his capture to the headquarters in various hypercompetent cloaked ways open up with artillery and precision sniping, instantly destroying the buildings and killing everyone in it.
Grey Lensman is the fourth book of the Lensman series and written by E.E.
"Doc" Smith in 1940.Despite being the fourth book, I started reading with this book.
Currently I’ve just started listening this book, but it has an interesting story.
There were two ancient species and they have millions of years history.
I’ve great expectations from this book.Update: 25.05.2015I’ve finished listening this novel, as I said above I’ve great expectations but the whole story did not satisfy me.
I guess this kind of sci-fi novels were good while they were written in 75 years ago, but not attract current audience much.
I've been reading a lot of books from this era recently and I have to say that even for the time it feels markedly old fashioned.
Perhaps I would have enjoyed this more if it wasn't my first foray into the Lensman stories but I don't think so.Essentially the plot is a police officer doing an undercover investigation into the drug trade as a war builds up in an old Western style of the future.
Nothing feels radical or interesting to me and I don't think I am likely to return.
The continuing lensman saga. It is interesting to watch the introduction of "new" scientific concepts into these books as they were developed. This one adds the concept of the positron which had just been discovered in 1932 a few years before this book was first published. Its kind of funny to see the wildly fantastic science and make-up of space smith put together be sidelined by something even more fantastic such as the positron. Bummer the other closely spaced dimensions and hyper and under space never panned out, it might have been fun.
Originally published on my blog here in November 1998.By the second Kimball Kinnison Lensman book, the fourth in the series overall, the path to the final conflict between the Arisians and the Eddorians is set.
The tendency to paint with a broad brush in this way is common even today; there must be many decent Serbs, for example, but we never hear about them and crimes are attributed to "the Serbs" by the media, as though they were all equally culpable.One cannot really fault Smith for being of his time and not of now; and he does allow Kinnison a moment of self-doubt, for leading good men to their deaths.
I've had the first in the series on my multi-paged reading list for ages, but wanted to read this one before the nominations for the Retro Hugo this year.I like space operas as a group.
I did begin to like the main characters as the book progressed, but characterization wasn't really the main aim for Smith, I feel.
The science was too prevelant for my tastes, but when you're reading print (ereader) you can skim when it gets to be too much.It does make me wonder if I would have felt closer to the characters if I'd read the previous items in the series; I'll find that out later.
Gray Lensman is the 4th in Lensman series written by E.
This is pure space opera and is not for everyone.
This set of novels covers generations as earth moves out into our galaxy and eventually to a neighboring galaxy.
The series was written in the 30's and 40's and reflects that time with women for the most part minor players as girlfriends or nurses.
As example, The Gray Lensman of this novel, best friend can best be described as dragon like.
For scifi fans who like space opera this is one of the originals and best in my opinion.
The things you can do when you learn to manipulate inertia... This is probably the grittiest of the Lensman books thus far, with the hero having to go to some dark places to track down Boskone. And as much as I've come to dislike the "he needed killing" thought in characters, at least the Lensmen have the necessary conceits to do it.
However this does not end crime in the galaxy; indeed there is evidence that Helmuth was in contact with the “Second Galaxy” aka “Lundmark’s Nebula”.Kinnison, on the assumption that all crime is being run by Boskone, decides to go undercover to infiltrate the drug trade, which is not only unaffected by the end of Helmuth but expanding.

It reads very much like a James Bond story (impressive enough since this considerably pre-dates Bond) but in this book the dialogue and tech descriptions are probably at their most tortured.
It was a different time, yada yada yada but it made for hard going.Also the tech descriptions are long and detailed but I'm still very stuck on projectors, screens, duo-dec, primaries...
Trying to get my head around these descriptions of yet to come technology (that all these decades later is still yet to come) just frustrated me at times.
Jedi Order vs Kingsman much slower but gets good, This book has got to be one of the original sources for the Jedi council being the police force for the Galaxy, written in 1940 if George Lucas ever read it, I can see the general Idea is all there, I was lost at first then the book got much better at the end, then I reread the beginning again and liked it much better. This is a good read, and if you do let me know if you agree about the Jedi thing.
Early space opera, great fun, somewhat dated. Generally any comments about one Lensman book apply to all. Rather than repeat my comments from earlier books in the series let me add here that the Lensman universe is a hard, unforgiving place with a very high body count. Of course when the fate of civilization, the universe and perhaps everything beyond in at risk stern measures are called for.
Rollicking 1940s space opera / pulp science fiction. Our hero is Gray Lensman Kimball Kinnison, who uses his lens-enhanced telepathic powers to defeat the evil Cthulu-esque Overlords of Delgon. It rocks. Note: Mentions humans regenerating limbs “like starfish”, I thought this was a much later idea.
Enjoyable read in seriesLoved the book. This is a great series. However, as with the prior book, again there are an enormous number of very obvious typos. Feels like this series was rushed out without proofreading.
Good BUT......EE Doc Smith’s epic tail continues in grand fashion.This particular rendition o the Grey Lensman is missing several adventures that are just hinted at. As such it is a disappointment to not have the full adventure. The story continues.....-GABII
Takes up where the previous Lensman novel leaves off. The Boskonians are still a menace, the location of their home planet, Boskone, is unknown, and Kimball Kinnison's mission is to hunt them down. Great space opera!
Really enjoyed this opera, well worth the read
Not quite as good as the previous novel but still entertaining.
Just o.k.I really feel this series peaked with galactic patrol. It's kind of repetitive and the characters are fairly two dimensional. Worsel the Velantian is my favorite.
This book was a little slow in the beginning. Very hard to put down for the last fifty pages. I like the ending.
I liked this old SciFi #4 and still do.
Now it was up to Lensman Kim Kinnison, using his fantastic powers, to infiltrate the Boskonian strongholds, find the location of the enemy’s Grand Base – and smash it forever.But Kinnison didn’t know then that the power of Boskone reached further than anyone had dreamed – into the Galactic Patrol itself...’Blurb from the 1973 Panther paperback edition.Kim Kinnison is now an unattached Grey Lensman, uniformed in the stark drab grey that, paradoxically, appears to the rest of The Patrol (and seemingly the entire galaxy) to be the sexiest outfit known to sentient life.
Smith is the father of Space Opera and was read by the masters and they paid homage to him.
The effect was kind of like watching the beginning of part 4 of a old Flash Gordon serial, you are lost and wondering why that was so difficult.
I promise I will come back to this series, as it is a foundation of what SF and Space Opera is today.
My star rating for this book is based on the audio and the fact that I just can't get into it right now.
When I do read it, I will change my rating accordingly.
I'd always wanted to read some Lensman, as I'd heard there were some corking ideas in the series, and, sure enough, although many of the notions portrayed in the book were dated now, some of the ideas that Smith comes up with were interesting - like using planets in what amounts to slingshots...!Mind you, the outdated cultural/social mores were pretty exhausting.
Then they introduce another alien on the next line because we're at a social event where all these characters congregate and to be honest, these kind of scenes just feel like 1980's hair band guitar solos : LOOK AT ME !!
