https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1340445.Kingsblood_Royal
He keeps the news from his family as he strives to learn more about the black society in his community, something completely alien to his upbringing and worldview.
Thus begins an unpredictable life journey that changes his family, community and future.Lewis’s depictions—as it was written in 1947—of Negro culture, white (and black) racism and the interaction between the races is as relevant today as it was then.
Indeed, in the conversations Neil has with his new black friends, within his white social circle and his family are probably among the most honest I’ve ever read.
Written with the help of Walter White, President of the NAACP as technical consultant, Kingsblood Royal meets American racism head on and doesn't let up until the 349th page.A well-to-do young white couple from small town America treat their black maid like a thief and name their dog "Nigger".
This stupidity comes to a dead halt, when at the behest of Neil Kingsblood's father-in-law, he looks up his ancestry, thinking he came from British royalty, and instead discovers his ancestor was a black frontiersman.The key word to this book is "discover".
I had an English teacher in high school who spoke highly of this book in the late 60's, explaining that it was far ahead of its time in understanding race relations and anticipating their deterioration. I read it years afterward and agreed with her entirely. Lewis, who understood and portrayed the shallow materialism of American culture, also had insights into racial problems, which are sharply dramatized in Kingsblood Royal. There is fine use of irony throughout, starting from the title.
I have often cited Sinclair Lewis as one of my favorite writers, and a huge influence on my own work.
They may be silly and vain and their dialogue is often *appalling* (Lewis' rendering of female dialogue always comes across as stilted, and I thought Sophie was particularly bad in this book) but when he's good (as with Neil Kingsblood's internalized angsting, which goes on for most of the first 3/4 of the book) he's great.I generally read Lewis more for the craft than the content, but I did think that in "Kingsblood Royal" Lewis handled some very difficult material with quite a bit of grace.
A comfortable Minnesota middle-class family is shaken to its roots -- literally -- when it turns out one of its members has an African-American forebear. Lewis's late-forties novel is a little preachy, but sets out a plausible, if rather strained, scenario. Devotees of Sinclair Lewis will like this novel, and it speaks directly to racial topics and racism that are still very much with us. Not one of his best, though.
I was amazed by this book. As I read it, I was constantly struck by the thought that this man, Sinclair Lewis, was so far ahead of his time in terms of the way he viewed society and justice. I'm not sure why this book doesn't get more attention as a great one.
Neil Kingsblood has been told that his family may have “royal” blood.
What he learns is quite the opposite of what was expected: Neil has Negro blood.What follows Neil’s discovery is pure Sinclair Lewis: Neil announces his Negro status to everyone in town.
In fact, this leads to a shunning of Neil and his family.It is wildly humorous that his fellow residents in Grand Republic, Minnesota accept his newly discovered Negro status without question, but do not accept him anymore.
They have known him to be an upstanding citizen in town for his entire life, but this little drop of Negro blood has tainted their opinion of him.It is an eye-opening experience for Neil and his wife.
I can see why it started a furor and then took a nose-dive into obscurity.
I imagine that most Americans of the time (and now) can find themselves in this book and they probably won't like what they see!
Waaaaaaay ahead of its time.
I loved Neil's search for who he was, at first just a surface search, and by the end, a very deep and meaningful search.
I also love that the ancestor Neil discovered who started this deeper journey was a man of strenghth and adventure, love and steadiness, who anyone would be delighted to find in their gene pool....if he hadn't been Black...
In today's society, this would barely be an issue, but at the time the book was written, it was not uncommon for those of 'mixed blood' to be ostracized by the white population that he had grown up with -- including his family.
The novel ironically begins with arc depicting the Kingsblood family with similar racist views toward their African American housekeeper.
Nonetheless, despite Neil's early racism, Lewis still manages to evoke some sympathy toward him as he earns his comeuppance.This book is an amazing read from a very different time in our history.
So, this sets up a conflict for Neil, who begins to explore the colored community in his city, mostly out of curiosity, but soon discovers that he likes the people he's meeting.
I absolutely loved it, but of course, I grew up in an environment where this kind of racism - where even people who looked completely white were supposed to be 'colored' - was a day-to-day reality, and a completely crazy-making reality, I might add - so for me, to see it all in print as told by an artist of Mr. Sinclair's caliber was insightful and healing.
I read several Sinclair Lewis books in high school and college - specifically Main Street, Babbitt, and It Can't Happen Here.
He had a satiric eye and was not afraid of whom he "insulted." (The town of Anoka, MN - on which he based Main Street - was not fond of him for a long time.) This book was the hardest to read because of its content.
Since, in many states at this time, that small percentage of "black blood" makes him black, he begins to explore what that means (much to everyone's consternation).
I thought that Mr Lewis would never bring us to a happy ending; it seemed as if the antagonism and insults would go on forever!
And unfortunately, take away some people's excuse to hate, and they'll come up with another.
I remember hearing some of these same pathetic arguments for bigotry when I was growing up, and now it's no longer (primarily) African blood, today's target is sexual preference.
Grow up, people!Lewis' timing was impeccable; just as I said ENOUGH!
What a lovely touch immediately after Lewis unveils the similarity between the militant whites and the Nazi party!
This is the first Sinclair Lewis book that I have read.
I had no expectations when, on a whim, I pulled the book off my book shelf and began to read it.
What I found was a very progressive read, even for our times, and especially for the time in which it was written and set.
What he finds instead, is that he comes from the blood of a black French Canadian frontiersman, which, according to the laws at the time, make Neil, and his family, black.
Neil’s struggle with this knowledge and whether he should come out, so to speak, or not, is both painful and fascinating to witness.
In its truthtelling about Black-White inequality inside U.S. society and (white as well as Black/mixed race) FAMILIES, this book is the literary equivalent of (German director) Douglas Sirk's 1959 film IMITATION OF LIFE.
This was Sirk's LAST U.S. film before he returned permanently to EUROPE.
Sinclair Lewis wrote KINGSBLOOD ROYAL about people of Black American/African descent IN MINNESOTA -- communities that like to see themselves as "all-white", where fairskinned Blacks were "passing" as being "white" 2 or 3 decades BEFORE being Black allegedly became "cool" (& now even profitable, as in gaining U.S. presidency).
Sinclair Lewis deserves a post-humous award for this one!
I think this is the best book about racism I ever read. Unforgettable.
This is at least the third time I've read this novel and each time I'm blown away by how insightful Lewis about race relations in America.
His father thinks maybe the family is related to royalty.
He makes friends among the black community and learns that much of what he had thought about African Americans is false and simple minded.
Walter White, who had a similar racial heritage, and was the head of the NAACP, helped Lewis with the research, by inviting him to meet many African Americans and learn about their lives in a segregated society.
At the beginning of Kingsblood Royal, Neil Kingsblood, the protagonist of Nobel-laureate Sinclair Lewis's 1947 novel, is a prosperous young banker and recently returned WWII vet in the upper-Midwestern town of Grand Republic.
He learns that one of his forebearers, a frontiersman named Xavier Pic was a self-professed full-blooded Negro, making Neil 1/16th negro, and his daughter 1/32 black.
This little fable is probably as relevant and timely now as when it was written. As a "text" it should be used in high schools and colleges when studying the history of racism in this country and trying to understand why exactly it is that the idea of a black man in the White House drives some folks crazy.The edition I read was a paperback, used but in mint condition with a deliciously pulpy cover.
A cardboard cut-out puppet show would have been more realistic, more convincing and infinitely more interesting than this, this parade of soul-starved mouthpieces.
"Ќе живееме сега па макар и умреле од тоа!"
Just like TV shows such as Father Knows Best and Leave It to Beaver portrayed families that I took to be normal American families that were different from my own, I thought of Lewis as portraying the real America and that I was experiencing something less genuine.
I don't think I was completely oblivious to the satire in his novels, but it wasn't till later, when I read him as an adult and became acquainted with It Can't Happen Here and Elmer Gantry that I realized that Sinclair Lewis was less a chronicler than a critic of American culture.
In this hilarious book Sinclair Lewis tackles race relations, considering the book was published in 1947 Lewis was generations ahead of his time. I'm not sure why I didn't enjoy this book more. I found it an important book for its time and still very much relevant today, but for some reason it failed to keep me wanting more. From page 200 onward I just wanted it to end. Perhaps it's because I loathe racism? or maybe I was distracted by a book delivery in the mail that I'm looking forward to devouring next.
We read Kingsblood Royal for bookclub. It is a very wordy, difficult book to read, was good to have on the nightstand because it put me to sleep. Aside from that, keep in mind this is written in 1947 and is about race relations. It is a sad state of affairs when there are too many situations when the same problems have continued, maybe not as drastic as what happened to Kingsblood when he went public with finding he had Negro blood, but they are still there.
Incredible. Kingsblood Royal is the story of the political and social awakening of Neil Kingsblood, a white middle-class nobody who accidentally discovers that he has black ancestry. Sinclair Lewis continues to amaze me with his perception as a critic and his abilities as a storyteller. The novel is set in Minnesota in 1944 and while the intolerance of the time is captured perfectly, I wonder how much (or how little) the story would change were it set in the present day. Highly recommended.
This was excellent. A young married white man becomes interested in his family's history, and finds out that he had a black ancestor. At first he's afraid, but he's brave and kind, and he sets out to learn about being black.I had no idea the phrases "Afro-American" and "coming out" were at least as old as 1947.Terrific!
I found this only because I was looking for a book published the year I was born. I note from Wikipedia that some Americans wanted this withdrawn from publication at the time. Hard to read because of the prejudice on every single page... but an interesting find. writing style a little dated, but content good.
Really enjoyed this book. It shows, there actually has been some growth in the intelligence of bigoted Americans since the time the book has written. There is so very much further to go in the road to intelligence about people who are just wearing a different colored skin or hair or religion. If only the brains were taught from the beginning, we would all have a better world.
As unnerving and uncomfortable and even sometimes totally exhasperated as this book made me feel, I enjoyed every minute of it! Kingsblood Royal is superb satire and even though published in 1947, it is still so relevant. Read it if you dare.
Good read. The subject of race discrimination was very well presented. Fortunately I had never heard of some of the slurs used.
What Neil learns is that he had a great, great, great grandfather who was a negro and who married an Chippewa Indian.
Thus, Neil, had a drop of "tainted" negro blood, making him "tainted" as well.What to do?
It doesn't help that Neil lives in a horrifically racist society.
After all, if no one knows about his tainted blood, what's the harm?
Naturally, no individual person is prejudiced, but, you know, "other" people will begin to complain, and that will be bad for business, or lower property values, or whatever.It's weird to read this stuff thinking that we've come a long way in the last 70 years, then realize that we just elected a President who is totally ignorant about the basics of government, ethics, the Constitution, Christianity, you name it.
