https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/895163.To_Sir_With_Love
The second and more important theme, particularly in the book, is racial and ethnic discrimination.This is an autobiographical novel based on the author’s own experiences as teacher in an East End London school after the war, after having been a British Royal Air Force pilot during the war.
Having a close friend of a skin color, religion or ethnic background different from you own teaches more than book learning can ever accomplish.
Braithwaite’s formal demeanor and strength of character are well captured in Ben Onwukwe’s rendition of the audiobook.
The kids’ Cockney accents are at times harder to follow, but this feels accurate and thus correct.
This may not be exactly the edition I read "back when".
This is another book my girl friend from high school gets credit for me reading.
The scenes of the teacher confronting the (at first) rowdy "youths" he is attempting to teach and the frankly (for the time) lewd actions of some of them contrasts markedly from the people he's teaching by the end of the book.This isn't a bad read.
I remember being moved by it (though teens do seem to feel things more intensely) the book still does a job of reaching out to the heart of the reader.
I loved this book; it made me cry. I have heard the movie is good too, but I have never seen it.
Braithwaite came from British Guiana, remaining in Britain after the Second World War. Having found his time in the war without prejudice, he was despondent by his life in a battered, grey, post-war London.
However, to his surprise, Braithwaite finds himself offered a post in a secondary school, in a poor area of East London.
As such, it is hard, at times to remain sympathetic with him – he often comes across as self congratulatory and a little smug.That said, this is an interesting account of those times and of an area I know well, and the problems faced by the population of the time – as well as those of the author himself.
This book is highly relevant to the current Indian situation, caste and colour have played a great role in the past centuries in India, only after Independence has it been considered as a crime.
In Britain it was if you're black you might as well die, in India if you're from the low-caste you might as well die too.
No doubt we had many great leaders from the so called "lower" castes, Ambedkar is my personal favorite, this book opens your eyes to the prejudice that we have inspite of the indifference between people.
This book grabbed me from the very beginning. If I had the opportunity, I would have finished it in one sitting.It greatly appealed to me because I also was involved in the field of education, and saw many children go through the school doors everyday.Braithwaite wrote about respecting his pupils and in return they respected him. And because of this respect the students became more interested and actively participated in their learning.Even though this is a partially fictionalized account of Braithwaite's first year of teaching, it is a valuable resource for those going into the teaching profession.
I knew that To Sir, With Love was a book about a black Caribbean man struggling with racial prejudice in 1950s London, so I was quite amused that the opening — his description of travelling on a bus full of East End women — reads so much like a white colonial Briton describing the natives of a third world country.
It’s less gripping perhaps, but infinitely preferable.Also, the actual book has another purpose, which the movie largely ignores—the story of a highly educated black veteran who tries to find employment in post-World War II England and instead encounters very real forms of racial bigotry.
I have yet to meet a single English person who has actually admitted to anti-Negro prejudice; it is even generally believed that no such thing exists here.
All the more reason to read the book, as well as others by the same author.
5 Brilliant Braithwaite Stars!! This book is a piece of nonfiction narrated by Braithwaite about his experience of teaching teenagers. Braithwaite, black in color gets a job in a school after many refusals because of his skin color. Though the other staff members accepted him, the students were hateful towards him and the story shows how Braithwaite changed this hate to love.This is a very special book for me as it reminds me of a teacher I have. Those so many things she taught us, apart from a
5 Brilliant Braithwaite Stars!!
This book is a piece of nonfiction narrated by Braithwaite about his experience of teaching teenagers.
Braithwaite, black in color gets a job in a school after many refusals because of his skin color.
Though the other staff members accepted him, the students were hateful towards him and the story shows how Braithwaite changed this hate to love.This is a very special book for me as it reminds me of a teacher I have.
Am sure it has forced all the readers to associate one of their teachers with Braithwaite because he shows the actual relation of a teacher and student :DRecommended for everyone!!
The book shows the ever-present prejudice against colored people in the 40's/50's and how difficult it was for them to fit into a racist society, although most of the time it's not openly so.
I essentially picked this book up upon recommendation from my school librarian since she said it was very similar to The Freedom Writers' Diary.
For a long time, and up until now, i was obsessed with The Freedom Writers; both the book and the movie.
I love reading about/watching the effect a good, healthy education has on the minds of young people.
Another goodie wanting to be re-read. Too young to appreciate first time that I think I will love this second time around. As always, I think of the movie (or should I say video) when as lazy youngsters we would've loved a lazy lesson. And of course all the boys that watched the movie only!
Loved it so... Had studied an excerpt in school and so was excited about reading it. Fulfilled my expectations and more. A truly inspiring and heartwarming story. And surprised at the real amount of snobbish rascism abroad.
A heart warming book. A story of a black man winning over the students and parents in the poor but cosmopolitan area of London Eats End. A very positive man and his very positive story.
One shouldnt impose today's morals on the past - perhaps!!This is a well known and inspiring account of a West Indian young man who comes to England following WW2 to work as a teacher.
This side of the book was as I remembered - touching and informative of the racism that existed (exists?) in London as that time.However, in this reading I stumbled again and again with the author's depiction of women and the teenage girls in his class.
While the book is a wonderful diatribe against racisim - it doesnt read so well in its persistently sexual view of women.

I'd heard of the movie but never considered reading the book until it was mentioned in "Austerity Britain" as an example of the prejudice faced by Blacks and Indians in 50's England.
It also bears reading as a reminder of the attitudes of the day.
Racism, classism and sexism abound but we can glimpse the seeds of change in those attitudes for example in the progressive teaching philosophies of the school's headmaster Florian (this reminded me a bit of the teachers at the school in Ishiguro's "Never Let Me Go"!
For us Africans, however, Braithwaite always apparently lacked a sense of humour, which ironically is often associated with his race, even those who've been oppressed and suppressed overwhelmingly.
In his writings he often comes across as rather strict and censorious, lacking a lot of fun, fluency and flamboyance.
And there is humour too, but alas it often comes from the other characters, teachers (up Weston!) and young pupils alike...
The nun's at my high school thought our class incorrigible. They hoped this book would save us, (well in combination with the movie) starring Sidney Poitier as Thackeray and Lulu as Barbara "Babs" Pegg and the film's title song "To Sir, with Love", sung by Lulu, - it did save quite a few of us. Some of us still read books! Only those who passed the English exam (included an essay on the book) were allowed the excursion to see the film.
I read this book many years ago for a unit I was assigned to teach my eighth grade classes during my student teaching experience.
Maybe it spoke to me so clearly because this book isn't really about the methods--it's more about the heart behind the methods.
In addition to being a book that every teacher who aspires to change lives should read, it's just a great story.
Reading and teaching this amazing book made that great semester even better than it already was.
Having worked as a teacher in an elementary school and as a trainer in a professional course college, I have had some experience with students aged 7-25.
Whatever their age, I have felt that if the teacher shows them respect and love, the students reciprocate the same in double the measure!This book reminded me of my days as a teacher in a school in the Middle East where people are generally branded as arrogant and bossy.
Though I am on a self-imposed break from work, this book has instilled second thoughts in my mind about recommencing work as a teacher.
What a brilliant book. So candid, so relatable, so ahead of its time. And so remarkably relevant to 2018. While the world has changed a lot since 1959, in some ways it is still the same. Racism is still reading it's ugly head.
Nice man.We are told that during Braithwaite's time in the RAF during the war, he experienced no discrimination based on his colour or background, which I also find hard to believe.
He tells his angry students that he too has been "pushed around", but we are led to believe from the text that it only happened when he tried to get an industrial position or rent a room in England after the war.
And yet he is blissfully unaware of his own condescending language when talking about how proud "these cockneys" are, how different they are from some sort of norm...contagious, isn't it, Sir?I believe I read this book once before, many years ago, but I wonder if I finished it.
One of my reading goals this year is to read at least 1 book written by significant authors who died in 2016.
This is the sixth book I have read this year.Once again, I have found an author of significant worth, but unknown to me.Most who read this will be familiar with the movie of same name starring Sidney Poitier as Mark Thackery.
Thackery is actually the pseudonym for Braithwaite.
This is, in fact, an autobiography.Very well written in what I have come to recognize as the British style, it is an entertaining and sympathetic treatise.Any teacher will appreciate the successes realized by Braithwaite's unique teaching style.
I realised at that moment that I was British, but evidently not a Briton, and that fine differentiation was now very important ...Yet there is a warm undercurrent of sentimental push/pull running through the novel which would appear just when you thought the narrator had forgotten about his audience of one, the avid reader.
Yet his 1959 publication of a brief moment of his life in post war London remains an important voice for the necessity of plurality and inclusivity in British citizenhood and British history, nevermore so during those moments when 'under the carpet' attempts at social engineering - Windrush anyone?
I'm not saying the movie is better, I'm just saying it sets a very, very different tone than the book.Ricky Braithwaite is a young, black man trying to make a living in Britain.
He has no teaching experience and yet the class he sets free into the world are more prepared to live their lives than countless graduating classes before them.Braithwaite speaks of racial indignities and injustices quite a bit, and I understood that lesson, but felt it carried more weight when delivered alongside the prejudice these teens faced due to their poverty and neighborhoods.
Glad the new year started with this book :) E R Braithwaite’s autobiographical nove is based on his own experience as a black teacher in a tough East End secondary modern school, gives a remarkable insight into the politics of class and race in postwar London in 1950's and the struggle of a well educated and qualified ex-air force guy to settle in England .
This fine and heart touching portrait of a post-war English working-class community coming face to face with a decidedly atypical West Indian man( our author), has much to tell us about that era with all soft of prejudice based on race and class.
This book is about a black man that can't find a good job, so he has to be a teacher because of his skin color.
This story is set in Greenslade Secondary School in the east London disrict.This black man in E.R. Braithwaite and he is the author of this book.
So throughout the book the realtionships with Braitwaite and his students grow more and more through respect and guidance; that includes overcoming racism and diversity.
I really liked this book for it's heated topics, like racism, and it makes me think/wonder if us Americans are that disrespectful, rude, and crude.
It was a wonderful book to read.
One of the most remarkable and impacting books I read first as a student in class VIII and then as a teacher in two Co-Ed schools.
The issues covered in the book are real to date and so very poignantly relevant, I relate to it all the more strongly as a woman teacher having to deal with almost the same issues and more on a regular basis.
As per my understanding, the book needs to be introduced as part of syllabus for middle school learners as the book deals effectively, 'with love', the fundamental reasons for the directionlessness in the present day students and manages to core out these by walking through the heart.
Received as part of the holiday book exchange that I entered through my friend Kathy Lawson, along with a lovely note, "Hope you enjoy! I understand you're an avid reader so I looked for one of my favorites off the beaten path. Praying you've neither read it nor seen the movie! Best wishes, Catherine" Well, I've neither seen the movie nor read the book, so I'm excited about this one! Thanks, Catherine!
Excellent piece of work, better than the movie.
