https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121356.Raiders_of_Spanish_Peaks
To aid the patriarch of the family recover from illness, the Lindsay family purchases the Spanish Peaks Ranch in the West at the site of an abandoned military fort. It soon becomes obvious that the old fort is ideal for both protection and imprisonment.
The well-to-do Lindsay family purchase a Colorado ranch sight unseen. Learning the ways of the West and code of conduct where the law was based on taking it into one's own hands will appeal to adventurous readers.
I've read a few hundred books in my day, but this one was an experience.I couldn't believe how casually and how often the word "nigger" was used, both in reference to a black man, and also the characters using that for the black man's name.And of course, they referred to Mexicans as "greasers."Wow.Also, instead of a character saying something followed by "he exclaimed," Grey has a prolific habit of writing "he ejaculated." That phrase probably showed up more than two dozen times in this book.Granted, Grey's books spanned from 1909 to his death in 1939 "(Raiders of Spanish Peaks" was published in 1938), and I know times were different, but it's still seems shocking.To be fair, unlike some of my friends who say these western "horseshit and gun-smoke" books are the best, I never read one.
A great western with color! This story has all the western color that a reader of good westerns likes! I admit, I'm a romantic and Zane Grey does a great job with his characters and their involvements...enjoyable read! I can recommend this story to any honest seeker of western color and flare.. I have enjoyed numerous Zane Grey stories, they're clean and one feels satisfaction from his eloquent descriptive writing.
A great ride in the old West!This is how a novel should read; takes you there in a which of words. Enjoy the frontier as it was; it people and their challenges. But take care, you'll find it hard to put the book down!
Zane Grey at his bestClassic western genre. Jane's books are always exceptional; they are filled with wonderful characters and an engaging story. A big American read.
One of the best Westerns I've read. Couldn't put it down.
Has a few holes here and there, but a truly enjoyable romp. It is fun to pick up again from time to time.
