https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111770.The_Whispering_Land
Durrell is socially and emotionally ahead of his time - there is a scene when some ‘fellow englishman’ wearing his Public (private) School tie to a Buenos Aires function attempts to pretend that he & Gerrald are of a kind, implying their intrinsic superiority to these “rather dull” country types; tries to create a granfalloon.
Sort of unwitting early world citizen.Or when heading out for several days in a new town:“We also had a clean shirt each, which our driver had placed reverently and tenderly in a pool of oil.” Another sign of someone wonderful; those who can see what is important & laugh retrospectively at the rest.
Along the way he gathers many friends, human and animal alike, some of which will be crated up and taken to his zoo in Jersey.
These days we have different ideas about how to treat wild animals but this was the 1950’s and that’s how zoos were stocked and how zoologists got to study and understand the creatures we share the whispering land with.Durrell comes across as the friendliest and kindest of pack leaders.
His description of a bull fur seal protecting his harem is visceral as are his observations of the same seal giving a youngster terrifying swimming lessons.
This biography come travelogue come zoology lesson is simply a joy to read.
Much better than A Zoo in My Luggage, the companion volume, mainly due to the lack of dodgy cultural dialogue. Durrell clearly actually has a benign view of humanity despite a rather outdated colonialist streak which he can hardly be blamed for in context. Very enjoyable animal tales which is what he is best at - after finding humour in his own family, that is......
The sequel to A Zoo in My Luggage, this is the story of how Durrell and his wife's zoo-building efforts at England's Jersey Zoo led them and a team of helpers on an eight- month safari in Argentina to look for South American specimens. Through windswept Patagonian shores and tropical forests in Argentina, from ocelots to penguins, fur seals to parrots, Durrell captures the landscape and its inhabitants with his signature charm and humor.
2.5 stars. This is probably the best of the Durrell books that I read. It has some entertaining stories and a great mix of travel, comedy, and natural history information. It can become a bit slow sometimes. Nothing special, but a fun read for those interested in wildlife.
I've always loved Durrell's work, and I can't believe I hadn't read this one before.
(Can you tell that lately I haven't had time to read any book that is not part of my required reading?
You knew it was San Martin."This is a non-fiction book about a zoologist who visits Argentina in order to "adopt" (and I'm using the term "adopt" very lightly here) unique specimens and take them back to his zoo.
I might be biased, but I really liked to see him exploring Argentina, meeting interesting characters and critizing many issues in our country that are, unsurprisingly, very much the same than in the 1950s.
It is definitely not a book that I would have picked up on my own, but surprisingly, I did not hate it either.
Parts of this book warranted four stars but lost one because of the condescending tone in sections, especially those relating to women.
I was also uncomfortable with the idea of collecting wildlife for personal gratification (from the afterword, I realized that Durrell ran a wildlife preserve; at that point -a little too late- I inferred that there was a larger reason for the expedition.) I'm sorry that it colored my reception of the balance of the book which is some parts was very funny.
I do recommend reading the book; a little forewarning might be helpful in preventing some culture jolt.
Даррелл взрослеет, а вместе с ним подрастает и читатель. Уже нет былой скромности в выражениях: текст изобилует ругательствами, пошлостью и, вполне себе наконец-то проявившимся, английским чувством юмора. Джеральд более не озабочен поисками животных, ему теперь нравится их снимать на камеру, а требуемые для зоопарка экземпляры всегда и везде готовы продать, главное сторговаться до адекватной цены.(c) Trounin
As always, a highly entertaining and enjoyable read. Was especially fun to read this while I was traveling--made the inevitable inconveniences of modern travel seem ridiculously petty compared to travels with animal collecting. Love his never-ending sense of humor and fabulous descriptions of people, places, and of course, the animals.
Gerald Durrell writes about his time spent gathering animals in Argentina for his private zoo on Jersey Island in the Channel Islands. It's a great adventure and is as much about his fondness for the people of Argentina as the animals. A good time.
I took me a month or more to read this. I found it boring af pls, i mean, there are some argentinian things that are funny and i love how careful he is w animals but it is so frikin slow and boring
I love it. Just like every other book written by Gerald Durrell, captivating, funny, informative, simply amazing!!! Gerald Durrell is one of my favorite authors.
You should definitely read it as a child.
A book that v attempts to represent the best parts of humanity, if even a little dated.
Hilarious. Now one of my favorite of his non-Corfu books.
What a delightful surprise. Durrell is a zoologist who travels to Argentina to collect animals. He is entertaining as well as informative.
Enjoyable reading, though nowhere near as funny as his brilliant childhood memoir My Family & Other Animals.Here Gerald Durrell is on an expedition in Argentina to film and collect animals for his zoo in the Channel Islands.
His funny but fond retelling of his encounters with different people and their quirks is always enjoyable to read, while his passion for animal life is infectious and evocative descriptions of both animals and locations transport you there with him.
When Durrell wrote in 1961, Patagonia was practically off the map for most people.
But what a wondrous place.
I was fortunate to visit a couple years ago and found it so amazing that I always wanted to return.
Now that I am reading Durrell's description of his trip from Buenos Aires down the east coast, I realize that things have improved greatly since his trip.
Now there are a few more roads.Everything about his description defies understanding...so strange a landscape, the animals, the wind, and much more.
Magical.
I'm just on the part where he finds the fur seal colony...Finished.
This is the story of a trip by Gerald Durrell, the brother of philosopher Lawrence Durrell, who went into collecting animals for zoos befoire starting his own. This book is a good read for anyone, for so many reasons -- 1) the story is true, of the sort that would be unbelievable if it were fiction; 2) it's good for all ages and types, except people who hate animals maybe; 3) every page is a pleasure, so that you hate to see it end; 4) there are lots more where that came from, as this author was a tireless writer.
Eight years and seven books following his literary debut with the Overloaded Ark, Gerald Durrell describes his first collecting trip to South America. And it's another gem, with clear evidence of his maturing writing skill, and numerous glorious anecdotes illustrating his love of nature and food, his eye for detail, and his delightful humour. Good to see he has given up the practice of handing out cigarettes left, right and centre, and his gift for capturing character is less paternalistic than in the past. Yet for some reason I still prefer his books on Africa and Corfu. Wonder why....?
This was surprisingly interesting. Durrell was a naturalist who travelled around the world from the forties to the nighties collecting interesting animals for his private zoo. In this book, he describes his travels around Argentina in 1958; his descriptions of animals are very entertaining and I learned a lot; the people who helped him tremendously along the way added a lot to the story as well.
Another excellent and hilarious travelogue by Gerald Durrell as he spends time in remote areas of Argentina collecting animal specimens for his zoo. He is British and has an extremely droll way of describing humorous incidents with his animals i.e "Squatting in the light was a pygmy owl, a bird no bigger than a sparrow, with round yellow eyes that glared at me with all the silent indignation of a vicar who, in the middle of the service,has discovered that the organist is drunk."
If you are interested in Natural History and like a good story teller, you'll like this. A quick read and not very long. Durrell takes you with him to isolated parts of South America on a collecting trip for the breeding and preservation zoo he and his wife have established on the Island of Jersey in the English Channel. I was introduced to Gerald Durrell when I discovered The Amateur Naturalist. I love his combination of cheek and compassion.
Another great combination of education and entertainment from Gerald Durrell. His amazing sense of humour can make the most miserable situations seem hilariously funny. If you love nature and animals and don't mind taking the risk of dying of laughter, this book is for you. The only thing it lacks is a suitably punchy title – The Whispering Land just does not compare to The Drunken Forest or My Family and Other Animals.
Durrell writes beautifully. I was excited to read about the place Darwin visited. Durrell stays in the places he stayed and the last quote from Darwin.....a fitting end to the book!I read about his escapades ...the swearing parrot episode was hilarious.....planned to see on the net what these animals look like..since I have not seen most of them...by googling.... But did not get around it.....maybe some day.....
I'm looking for something light, something fun to make me laugh. Durrell has done that in the past and this book has been sitting on the side of my desk forever...so tonight I'm picking it up and starting in.
Obviously some of the language wouldn't wash today, and probably naturalists and ecologists would be unhappy with the methods, but I LOVED this account. The only flaw is that it made me sad about leading a conventional life.
Enough good things can't be said about Gerald Durrell and his amazing (true) animal stories. Touching, clever, interesting, very witty and thoroughly compelling. I have seven of his books already, and my collection is steadily growing.Highly recommended.
I love the vivid descriptions & humor in this book. Who knew a story about collecting zoo animals could be so entertaining without being trite!
