https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56301.Light_on_Yoga
About a year ago, I got myself a mat (eco friendly, of course), some stretch pants (organic cotton, duh), and went to a yoga studio to investigate what this bottle-nursing, teeny-tiny-spandex-wearing, mat-bag-dangling gang of people that I observed roaming the streets of my neighborhood were up to.Now, after a year of actually sticking to a regular practice, (Insert applause here.
As I mentioned, I've only been seriously at this for a year and I'm no expert, but of all the stuff that I've read about yoga, if I had to recommend only one book, this would be it.
Samadhi (a state of super-consciousness brought about by profound meditation, in which the individual aspirant (sadhaka) becomes one with the object of his meditation - Paramatma or the Universal Spirit).Of these, the first two - Yama and Niyama - are the starting points - they control the yogi's passions and emotions and keep him in harmony with his fellow man.
These two stages of Yoga are known as the inner quests (antaranga sadhana).Dharana, Dhyana and Samadhi take the yogi into the innermost recesses of his soul.
These stages are called antaratma sadhana, the quest of the soul.
It is a great life Bible, and it helps solidify the emotional and subconscious effects yoga has on me.
Quote: "It is said: 'Work alone is your privilege, never the fruits thereof.
never let the fruits of action be your motive; and never cease to work.
This equipoise is called Yoga.'" -B.K.S Iyengar p 26"When the senses are stilled when the mind is at rest, when the intellect wavers not--then, say the wise, is reached the highest stage.
This steady control of the senses and mind has been defined as Yoga.
The sheer quantity of asanas is unparalleled-if there is another yoga book with this many or more asanas, I've yet to find it.
All yoga books have some of what Light on Yoga has; none have such a complete package of quantity and quality.
Again, most yoga books worth their salt include courses at the end; one I've reviewed already (Yoga: The Spirit and Practice of Moving Into Stillness by Erich Schiffmann) is quite excellent in this regard.
This is why I came to the conclusion that at least for the time being, Light on Yoga is the only yoga book I need.
And this book is phenomenal if the practice of yoga is integral in one's ability to feel another level of connectedness with the universe/each other/all things, etc...I probably love this more than I would if I hadn't already gone in with a burning ardor for other similar texts and a learned understanding from those of what the heck is going on here as a baseline though--notable the Bhagavad Gita.
I should add that to my Goodreads shelf, too.Iyengar is just one master of one form of physically practicing yoga (and this really isn't about all the other yoga as is the epically gorgeous B-Gita)and his writing reflects a little language barrier but it's one of the things I actually love about the book a bit more.
It is no exaggeration to say that all yoga instructors in the United States know this book, and most of them own a copy and refer to it regularly.Iyengar's text is characterized by a thoroughness of content, a detailed, precise, step-by-step "how to" for instruction in asana and pranayama.
This Introduction rewards patient study, and is the kind of pithy text that needs to be returned to again and again, and yet it is written in an accessible, inspired, and inspirational style.Iyengar emphasizes precision and careful technique and a whole body mindfulness as prerequisites to success in hatha yoga.
I’m positive that I wouldn’t have kept these thoughts in mind had I not read Iyengar’s interpretation, and now that I know I will set my intentions on humility, compassion and kindness when I work on scorpion pose.
I’m glad I found this book so early in my yoga practice so that I can keep the intention of the poses with me as I progress.
apparently i'm supposed to attain freedom from desire. gotta lotta work to do on that one.
I wouldn't exactly call this a great read. The introduction is useful for anyone new to yoga but it could probably fill out an entire book on its own so you're really skipping over a lot of ideas in that essay. The bulk of the book is an index of poses and commentary on their usefulness. The index is ESSENTIAL. Particularly the suggested schedule of asanas. This book is defining a trajectory for my practice and basically changing my life. So, yeah, 5 stars for that.
Mostly centered around asanas. There are many asanas here including many that don't seem to common. There are pictures, but less than I'd like. The main selling points for me were the better than average texts describing the positions and their effects.
I cannot read this one as a normal book, but I read it as I learn the asanas. It is the bible of all yoga book. i found it in a street basket at "solds". of course, the more colourful and commercially more presentable books of yoga were inside costing way more than 10 euros.
The main value of this book, at least for the average person, is that of a reference book. Yoga poses are displayed with a detailed description of the best way to approach the pose and the value it has on you body. A very good resource for the serious practitioner.
The middle section, which is the bulk of the book, is a list of over 200 postures with step by step instructions on getting into and out of them, along with their benefits and risks.
The third section is an appendix of asanas for specific ailments and for mastering all of the included postures.Where my rating for Light on Yoga dropped was the introduction.
I know there is a distinction, but it's kind of discouraging and made me feel like a poser for wanting to practice yoga.The middle portion of Light on Yoga is an amazing reference.
Each posture also has a step by step guide for getting into the pose and out of it.
I've read enough to form an opinion on this book that I will probably continue consulting for life.As far as I am aware this is the yoga book; the closest thing to an authoritative manual on 'how to practice yoga'.
While I appreciate the newer approach to yoga as being open to modification to one's own body, I think it is important for anyone who is serious about yoga to learn the 'original' way, and then adapt, so to know the direction in which one is going from 'the path' on their own journey.
And for a yogi, this book is the path.
The formatting in the book is fairly poor making it strenuous to read.
The line spacing should have been 1.15 or 1.5, it would have been better to cover each pose as a section, rather than a continuous text.
Unlike most other Indian literature on Yoga which has elements of sexism here and there in text i.e. women during impure bleeding cycles should not do this, yada yada; Iyengar offers relevant and useful suggestions.
Iyengar also provides multiple modifications of each pose from beginner to advanced level, which are arsenals for a yoga teacher.
Wish the formatting was a little better and it would have been my yoga-bible for life.
This is a great manual on how to effectively perform yoga poses with proper alignment and breath count.
I read the book cover to cover over a few months, which was surprisingly not difficult or boring.
I thought it might be boring to read about poses one after the other, but found myself just flying through them.
I was assigned this book as part of a yoga teacher training (but have always wanted to read it otherwise) and currently practice Mysore style Ashtanga.
It's definitely a book I will consult for many years to come.
Definitely recommend for any level of yogi!
the most authentic and outstanding book on yoga, gives crystal clear and simple descriptions of various asanas. Highly recommended to everybody in this world, young and old, man, woman, every human being.
This is a huge, detailed book, filled with postures ranging from simple, to those which are intensely difficult and rarely done. It is well illustrated and most instructions are clearly stated. Much of the book is also devoted to Eastern philosophy, diet and lifestyle.
Very clear introduction to a the classic perspective of Hatha yoga.
It’s the ultimate Bible on Yoga. Cannot be beaten.
Timeless, glorious wisdom of Yoga! Iyengar is a gift to those who seek that wisdom.
thank God for Iyengar.
Read it. But find a guru to follow the principles. Not many people can really learn it by themselves.
The introduction to the philosophy of yoga, the path of the Yogi and all that it entails, is truly inspirational.
This is the first of many books written by "The Michaelangelo of Yoga." It Has a great introduction which covers the philosophy and science of yoga.
There are helpful instructions and great stories accompanying the pose.
Because BKS Iyengar practiced asana for hours a day over a period of many years, this books explains how the asanas work on many levels.
The closing section of pranayama, bandha and mudra is very helpful as is the appendix and weekly practice guide!
Warning: Don't try too many of the poses, you might get addicted to yoga!
It is amazing how deeply Guruji has given thought to the anatomy and alignment of the body while presenting these yogasanas to practice. He proves that really by doing yogasana you can prepare your body for its further journey of exploration of mind, soul and the unknown beyond that. As he says again and again, body, mind and intelligence are the vehicles of the soul which has set on the journey of self realization. This book is not just the manual of how to do Yagasana- it really opens up the inner core of the aasana practice.
It's the most comprehensive book on Yoga by the great master. Book has been written very precisely about each Yoga posture. Must have if someone wants to learn Yoga seriously. Each posture instructions are in great detail which generally normal instructor won't tell.Also, anatomical details are added for greater understanding.
Had some good info, but was a lot of reading for a few positions. I think this book was probably great for when it was first written but now that yoga has picked up in popularity, I think there may be better books for beginners out there. This would be for someone that is looking to read more about the positions rather than learning how to do them.
I mean I'm not *really* finished but the purpose for which I was reading this has ended so I *could* be done but hopefully I will come back to this many many times. Wise and thorough but you don't need me to tell you that.
Best guide ever. It's my go-to for asana specifics, and I love the index for improving ailments.
