https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403452.The_Big_Con

This was an interesting look into the big con games of the early 20th century, when the modern equivalent of millions or hundreds of thousands of dollars could vanish into thin air.
Several aspects of the big-con lifestyle are covered, including the various flavors of scams, the opinions and philosophies espoused by con men, their vices, dirty political aspects, and the elaborate vocabulary ("argot") of the in-crowd.
Since the book was published in 1940, the "big con" has obviously evolved in the sophistication and subtlety of its methods but it's undoubtedly still around, even though you're unlikely ever to hear about it due to the embarrassing nature of being roped for a small fortune.
Three hundred pages of this, a fine book to draw out over the summer:"O.K.," says John.
"We'll give him the hides.
What kind of an egg is he?""Well, he's no lop-eared mark," says Jimmy.
"He knows what it is all about.
And he may be hard to handle.
He is a hefty baby with plenty of moxie.
I'd guess he'l be hard to cool out.""If he gets fractious, he'll get the cackle-bladder.
That cools out those tough babies.
Do you want to find the poke for him?""We might as well.
He's right there in the hotel with me and it would be a better tie-up than the point-out.
Maurer was a linguist, and language, professional argot, is his entree to the world of conmen, but don't let that fool you.
Robert Greene started it all with his Coney Catching pamphlets, about con artists in Elizabethan London.
Maurer anatomizes the con games, the conmen and their argot.
This will be familiar to fans of The Sting (another word in the lexicon, pun intended), when to 'chill' the 'mark' they stage a murder.
This book of course is the font from which not just The Sting, but shows like Leverage and the wonderful BBC show Hustle heavily drink.
This is one of my favorite books and I recommend it to everyone, especially if you have an interest in acting, sales, marketing, business development, confidence games, or organized crime.
The content is nothing short of amazing and he retells the stories of men organized into crews that would systematically create ""big stores"" to rope the wealthy business man, far from home, into believing he was going to win a fortune by working with the con man to swindle the "store." Think "The Sting," the movie was based upon this book.
Highly recommended.
This book started out with a lot of very interesting stories and descriptions of elaborate con games. However, it kind of went nowhere after that. It felt like the author didn't actually have a cohesive story to tell.So, I recommend you read maybe the first third of this book and ignore the rest.
Cons works on any man with larceny in his heart, a desire to win some money on a sure thing.By training, Maurer was a linguists, and there's poetry in the thieves cant.
If he is a hard-shelled Babbitt, why you're one too." Even the names, The Yellow Kid Weil, Limehouse Chappie, The High Ass Kid, convey a romanticism of the lost past, and of the grift mobs who stole with deception rather than force.
For the grift is an art, an alternate reality where more money is just around the corner.
It's rather fascinating to compare the Big Shops to the online deceptions of modern scammers like Derek Alldred and the romance of this book against the sordid lies of reality.
<3Written in 1940, it's got The Sting all over it.
At its best, this book describes some of the classic cons of its time (the book was first published in 1940) and I now want to rewatch some David Mamet movies to see how that correlate to the text.While Maurer was an academic, he is clearly having fun writing about grifters and ropers and insidemen and so forth.
He also seems awfully confident in some of his assertions where it seems pretty clear his only source for the book was con artists, who might be prone to lying or exaggerating.But on the balance this was an interesting read and a nice change of pace from what I usually check out.
This study of cons and con men of the early 20th century is a must-read for the lingo and monickers alone. I also enjoyed the detailed breakdowns of some of the cons. Never underestimate the power of greed to cloud men's minds. As Maurer says, "a confidence man only prospers because of the fundamental dishonesty of his victims." Variations of some of these scams are going on to this very day and idiots are still falling for them.
I enjoyed this tremendously, particularly how clear it becomes that the smarter a mark is, the more of a sucker he is. The 'big con' is a a play in which the main character has no idea that he's in a play, and long after realizes that he was the audience. great website on the book: http://www.cse.iitk.ac.in/users/amit/...
I suspect that the line between the short con and the big con has been blurred by the ease of accessing and transferring money by digital means - and this has likely enabled a whole new generation of scamming.And as Maurer notes at the beginning, the methods of con men "differ more in degree than in kind from those employed by more legitimate forms of business." In my mind, the credit default swaps and massive bailouts of the 2008 financial crisis bear more than a passing resemblance to some of the practices described in the book.
It's a long read, and a rather slow one, mainly due to unfamiliar terminology, but once you get into the flow of it, it picks up.
It's a history of confidence games and con men, starting with the earliest cons and going through the 1940s, when it was originally written.
It was fascinating, not just because of how easy it was to run the games, but because you can see the origins of today's scams in the old games.
Today's phishing scams are the equivalent of the wire, as an example.
Well worth the read.
Very educational and super fun to read.
Though the author, David Maurer, clearly talked to some successful con men, and manages to use a bit of their terminology, I do think that having things in their own words may have worked better.This is a tough book to write, I imagine, owing to the amount of improvisation required to perform these acts of deception.
On some level, there must be tricks for dealing with certain types of marks, though there wouldn't be any skill necessary if grifters didn't need to think on their toes and be able to respond to any situation.Maurer handles this by giving example cases of the con, though it'd be nice to go into a bit more of the varieties that con artists employ.
This is the book that inspired and informed much of the script of the film "The Sting." After reading it, I know a lot more about the state of the art of confidence games from 80 years ago. The book is great at capturing a moment in time, and I think I liked it as much for how dated it feels as for how much I learned from it. It's a bit cumbersome, and probably twice as long as what I would've liked. But I enjoyed reading about con games popular from 1900 to 1935.
As others have said the book is definitely repetitive especially when it comes to lists of names and given that it was first published in 1940 there's a fair amount of casual racism and sexism. But it's a fascinating look at the cons of the early 20th century which eventually led to the Nigerian Prince schemes of today.
The author was a professor of linguistics and this work is a rather academic study of the subculture inhabited by American con artists before the Second World War. But it still entertains even as it illuminates the kind of people most of us would do well to avoid.
I picked this up on the recommendation of a fellow writer (Brand Gamblin), because I'm interested in writing cons and heists.
Originally published in 1940, it captures in considerable detail the state of the con game in the early 20th-century US.
While the specific cons detailed were dependent on the technological conditions of the time, it wouldn't be hard to extrapolate from them to more general principles.
But I did find it interesting and evocative of a particular era, as well as of more general principles of human greed, ingenuity, and deceit.
Author is a linguistics professor so the main focus of the book was the language of the Con Men which made it a bit difficult to follow at times. The history of the Confidence Men, their "games" and "stores"....how they ran business....was interesting but overall I just couldn't get into the book.
Anyone else see Donald J Trump in this book?
Reads like a text book, as dry as anything, just did not get going.
A bit dated in its language and approach, but a surprisingly enjoyable window into 1940's and 1950's America as well as a reminder about how people get tricked into giving up a fortune.
Much more dull than a book about con men has any right to be.
Elderly men are easy to play because age has slowed down their reactions.Most marks come from the upper strata of society, which, in America, means that they have made, married, or inherited money.
Because of this, they acquire status which in time they come to attribute to some inherent superiority, especially as regards matters of sound judgment in finance and investment.
Thus a Babbitt who has cleared half a million in a real-estate development easily forgets the part which luck and chicanery have played in his financial rise; he accepts his mantle of respectability without question; he naively attributes his success to sound business judgment.
David Maurer's The Big Con is a bona fide masterpiece of pre-WWII American criminal culture. A fascinating insider survey of the confidence game, its discreet origins and inimitable characters, as recorded by a streetwise linguist with deep access and an appreciably wry wit. Originally published in 1940, it should be essential reading to anyone with a sincere interest in historical lowlifes or the grift. This is right up there with You Can't Win, Education of a Felon, David Simon's Homicide, or anything by  Joseph Mitchell, or Luc Sante. And now, I need to go re-watch The Sting.
The true center of this work, like the center of the cons it describes, may be the Mark.
With most crime, the more we learn of the victims, the more we sympathize with them.
But Mauer shows us a crime where it is the victim's own criminality that makes him vulnerable.
The heart of the book for me, though, and the reason that I have placed it upon my personal landmark and in extremis shelves, is the depiction of how reality can be manipulated.
The con men merely manipulated things to encourage them to believe what they were predisposed to believe.
I like to recommend David Maurer's 1940 classic, THE BIG CON, for the picture it paints of the US being, from one point of view, a vast, well-oiled swindling machine.
Every metropolis used to have its network of gyp joints, variously tarted up as saloons, nightclubs, gambling casinos, etc., preying on a steady stream of green hicks dazzled by the bright lights of the big city, while not by any means neglecting to fleece the more urbane sort of marks as well.
Like the Mafia, they've learned that the really big money comes from going legit, because then you can pay lawmakers to write the laws for your greatest convenience.
pooled ink Reviews:  “Of all the grifters, the confidence man is the aristocrat.” The Big Con is a casual narrative that eases you into the world of the modern (1940s) confidence man as its pages offer you true third party insight with the occasional tale or anecdote from those who actively play the game. Educational, amusing, informative, and a remarkably quick read this book provides all that is needed for the casual enthusiast.Non-fiction is pretty hit-or-miss for me but the narrative that s
The Big Con is a casual narrative that eases you into the world of the modern (1940s) confidence man as its pages offer you true third party insight with the occasional tale or anecdote from those who actively play the game.
Educational, amusing, informative, and a remarkably quick read this book provides all that is needed for the casual enthusiast.Non-fiction is pretty hit-or-miss for me but the narrative that spun this research together drew me in immediately.
And what Maurer was offering was a base of history, a trove of secrets, and a smile of stories straight from the horse’s mouth.Read my FULL review here: https://pooledink.com/2016/08/03/the-...
Stories about con men and criminals are good to use as anecdotes and metaphors.
As in, he also wrote an entire book on the linguistics of the underworld (which is interesting to think about considering how commonly we use their phrases - grift, rag, con, the fix, blowing him off) and wrote the Britannica article for "slang." You would probably be well served to explore a few of the biographies of the characters in the book, although the 48 Laws of Power does a good job with some of the highlights.The one thing to take away: con men exploited the desire of wealthy people to get something for nothing and their willingness to break the rules to do so.
A wonderful work and a fine period piece (it was originally published in 1940) that is as much a linguistic examination of the patois of the grifter in the early part of the 20th century as it is a sociological examination of the class and kind of criminal.
Maurer's sympathies are squarely and firmly with the con men here and, as such, he manages to see their targets as deserving marks rather then victims.
Linguistics were Maurer's primary field of study and this close examination of such a minute sub-strata of the English language, especially given the small time frame examined (some fifty years or so) is fascinating.
