https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38066.Jonah_s_Gourd_Vine
A young man, John Buddy Pearson, a ‘yallar’ man as he is often called because of his white parentage, is big, strong, handsome, and charismatic, gifts which are an advantage and a disadvantage at the same time.
It begins in the Reconstruction era when things have changed, and they haven’t at the the same time.
And should I not be concerned over the great city of Nineveh, in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who cannot know their right hand from their left, not to mention all the animals?” 
This is an astonishing book, full of richness and sorrow and grace, as life is.
I grew up in Florida and rode the train through Sanford--the setting of much of this book--a number of times a few decades after this was written, and I recognized from my memory glimpses of how the world there used to be.
Hurston has a distinctive narrative style that passes years sometimes with just the change of a paragraph--and I haven't decided whether that's a flaw or a feature, but in the end I think the book must just be what it is, and we are privileged to experience it.
Reading Zora Neale Hurston is like settling back into a comfortable armchair and listening to stories told by a favorite relative who happens to be a keen observer, an insightful student of human nature in all its frailties and aspirations, and an excellent mimic. I felt totally immersed in this book, as in "Their Eyes Were Watching God" and Hurston's stories, though I didn't find it as finished as the other works. The element of folklore in John's story added an almost Biblical resonance to what's essentially a simple tale of a gifted and flawed man.
“God was grumbling his thunder and playing the zig-zag lightning thru his fingers.”That's how Zora's first novel opens up.
Pretty catchy if you ask me.
Her writing in this book is sold I think.
I'm still convinced she has a separate voice from other authors.
You can tell this is a first novel though.
You can also tell this book is about her parents, well a fictitious version of them.I wouldn't recommend this to first time readers of Zora though.
Go with her popular novel Their Eyes Were Watching God or go with her non-fiction.
I'm still on a mission to read ALL her books.
Just wonderful book. Zora Neale Hurston was a masterful storyteller. Her work shines.
The first novel by the author of Their Eyes Were Watching God, the story of a young man growing up to adulthood, but never fully reconciling himself.Book Review: Jonah's Gourd Vine is just as good as Their Eyes Were Watching God, but is a smaller more focused story.
While reading this wonderful novel, I felt as if I was sitting on the front steps, listening to the wisest woman on the block weave her stories of people she'd known long ago, staying up till late at night because I never wanted the words to end.
Hurston's first novel, published in 1934, is a fictionalized account of the lives of her parents set in the post-Reconstruction South to the years that followed the First World War. The title refers to the Biblical prophet, who cared more about the death of the gourd vine that sheltered him from the sun than the people of the nearby town of Nineveh, who were at risk of annihilation at the hand of God.John Crittenden is born out of wedlock in post-Reconstruction Alabama to Amy, who later marries Ned, a sharecropper and embittered former slave who constantly butts heads with the strapping "high yaller" boy who isn't his own.
Wonderfull story.
The story of the life of John and Lucy Pearson and their community in the 1930 south.
I fell in love with Lucy the moment I met her.
Although she is too laid-back in accepting the action of her gad-about husband,she is smart deep thinking woman who lovesher husband more than she doesherself.ohn says that he loves Lucy but he runs from life's adversitiesleaving Lucy to cope alone.She copes throughout their life together rarely complaining.
I disliked John from the moment that he met Lucy.
In Jonah’s Gourd Vine and in other works I have read by her, events happen with a quick sentence, time passes without a mention, and the reader is forced to fill in the blanks.Still, her gift of dialog is superb.
She makes clear the lesser of any evil—working for one white sharecropper or farmer over another, and she makes her reader want autonomy as much as her characters.
Even if I was not poor and black, I could understand the need to be in a city where you can be part of the legislative process!Again, still, I want her to make clearer segues in both time and events.
An okay novel but a great attempt by Hurston to freeze and depict some of the attitudes, acts, language, and feelings of early 20th century Southern black Americans. You can perceive her personal interest in feminism, anthropology, and voodoo very clearly. There were some stunning turns of phrase, like: "The old black woman of the sky chased the red-eyed sun across the sky every evening and smothered him in her cloak at last. This had happened many times."
This was the first Zora Neale Hurston book I have ever read, and it rocks like a Barack Obama speech. It may take some getting used to reading the Black vernacular, but once the rhythm is there the book flies.I LOVE this book!
This book gives a vivid picture of the sterotypes and folklore that exist in the Southern states. Often times I found myself chuckling at the myths and stories created within the community.Zora is a wonderful writer who knows the thoughts of the Southern people.
Funny, wise, moving easily between the casual, the lyrical, and the profound, this novel presents a vivid panorama of African American life in the South from around 1885 to 1930 or so, as it follows the life of John Pearson, a child of former slaves, a preacher, an inveterate lover of women.
Set in the Redemption South, Jonah's Gourd Vine follows John Pearson from youth through his late life.
While John is at the center of the novel, Hurston is committed to telling the stories of the women that surround him.
Captured in Jonah's Gourd Vine is the dynamism of black life in the rural south.
Written in southern vernacular, Hurston's respect for rural black culture is apparent in her careful use of the language.
Much like Their Eyes, Jonah's Gourd Vine explores the complicated relationship between black men and women as well as a host of other themes.
The biggest reason would probably be the writing - I could tell that it was Hurston's first novel.
As the protagonist, and because this was his coming-of-age novel, I would have liked to feel more connected to him than I did.
What I really appreciated Hurston for, though, was addressing issues of gender-identity, marriage, and sex-drive at a time in history when these topics were not traditionally up for discussion.
Moreover, she addressed these issues through the eyes of a man, making her agenda even more subtle and crafty than it was in TEEWG.
When I was very young, I checked a book out of the library.
Having never met an African American person in my life or heard anyone at that time speak with a Southern accent, a dialect or ebonics, I was perplexed by the way the series of Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, Brer Bear and the little Tar Baby was written.
Reading this book brought all of that back to mind.
Something written in the 1930s from a black person's point of view reveals a lot about what life was like for the first generation of freed slaves.

It is clear that Zora Neale Hurston understood human beings and how they could have great gifts and glaring flaws and that because of this, old habits are hard to break even when we have some maturity that allows us insight into those flaws.
The novel is such a realistic portrayal of human beings and how they try to navigate life.
She discusses the metaphor of the Gourd Vine and the Bible story it was taken from so that the reader can see clearly how Hurston wove this into the novel.
The book is written in dialect which Hurston uses in her other novels with great affect.
A beautiful, human book.
I loved this book I mean anything by the infamous Zora Meals Hurston is gonna be good. She artisfully creates a story that not only draws a readers attention but keeps it there. I enjoyed the story of John and Lucy, although my heart broke for Lucy I think she deserved a way better end then what she got. I guess that's the unfortunate story of black women in that time period. Besides that the story warmed my heart and I couldn't stop reading, Ms. Hurston is and always will be a master storyteller.
This is an amazing book at so many levels. It’s in dialect, it is of its time and culture. I really enjoyed the story and it’s telling.
I read, quite some years ago, other books by Zora Neale Hurston that I enjoyed.
(Their Eyes Were Watching God and Mules and Men.) This is Ms. Hurston's debut novel, so I decided to read it as well.
First, I must argue that Hurston has a talent with writing that I enjoy.
The book starts with Ned making life unpleasant for John.
One of my favorite lines is "You can't clean yo'self wid yo' tongue lak uh cat." (No matter how many pretty words we make, we can't cover up our lousy behavior.) Hurston also makes a good Easter Sunday sermon through John.
It shows us that as difficult as thier life was - these people managed to live, succeed, have fun and achieve happiness.
Despite what today's women would see as enabling behavior I think Lucy was in fact an incredibly strong woman who kept her family together and her respected position in the community and her self respect despite John's crap.John is a complicated character.
Even through his hitting Lucy - a part with which I had a major problem, looking at it through 2006 eyes - you still knew that deep dpwn she was the love of his life.I would definitely recommend this book.
The story of John Pearson's rise and fall post Civil War. Pearson is a powerful African American preacher who is riddled with weakness and shortcomings.
This story is based on Hurston's parents which makes the narrative compelling.
John falls in love with Lucy Potts, who he marries.
Lucy believes in him and makes him a better man but he continues to fall short and can't stop himself from partaking in sins of the flesh.
When Lucy dies, he marries Hattie, a woman who is as bad for him as he is for her.
The story is moving, sorrowful and masterfully written.
One of the best books I have read in a long time.
I am now eager to read more of Zora Neale Thurston, who is clearly an overlooked, under read writer.
The use of southern black dialect adds to the novel's charm and authenticity.
The characters are believable and complex.
I sympathized with the the protagonist, not because he was likable ( often he was not) , but because he is human.
The novel also serves an interesting social commentary on the the fragility and falseness of human relationships.
My favorite of Zora Neale Hurston's books, although Dust Tracks on a Road comes in at a close second for me.
There is something interesting happening in pretty much every sentence.
I can scarcely think of another book or series of books that offers such a consistently rich reading experience.
However, I hope that does not dissuade you from digging into her books as they really are treasures of American literature.
I also highly recommend Seraph on the Suwanee, Their Eyes Were Watching God, and Dust Tracks on a Road
Admittedly, this work is far more difficult than Hurston's better known Their Eyes Were Watching God, and not nearly so engaging.
The dialect is nearly constant, and sometimes required sounding out, which I didn't find to be the case in her other works.
Hurston's ability for bringing unfamiliar settings to life is undeniable, and reading this work is no different than being physically transported back to a poor southern town in the early twentieth century.
In the end, the work does hold up to time, even if it won't be a fast or easy read for contemporary readers.
(SPOILER ALERT!!) I would argue that Jonah's Gourd Vine is in many ways an earlier rendition of Their Eyes Were Watching God(Lucy's mother's attempt to marry her off to an older man/ John's move to Eatonville and his eventual rise to prominence/ the late-in-life romance with Sally are also plot themes in TEWWG).
I like that many of the characters in Eatonville reappear in much of Hurston's work.
I like that the character Joe Starks says "I, God!" to the point of exhaustion in Jonah's Gourd Vine as much as he does in Mule Bone.
I thoroughly enjoyed this complex book. It conveys a cultural weariness without tiring the reader, like watching a stone being carved by water. Inexorable forces strive to wear away the characters, some endure, some succumb, and the journey is never dull. The portrayal of the church and its viciously divided factions rings with truth. I have been in that church. It is a hundred denominations, peopled by congregations of all colors. Zora Neale Hurston's work always fascinates me. This book is no exception.
Wow...an amazing book. Zora Neale Hurston writes in the dialect she grew up with...yet the complexity of character, depth of metaphor and the beauty of the word pictures is very sophisticated. Her writing is elegant and organic. John Pearson, our lead protagonist talks about women."Jes' 'cause women folks ain't got no big muscled arm and fistes lak jugs, folks claims they's weak vessels, but dass uh lie. Dat piece uh red flannel she got hung 'tween her jaws is equal tuh all de fistes God ever made and man ever seen."
I read this book after already finishing Their Eyes Were Watching God and Moses, Man of the Mountain.
Those are two tough acts to follow, but this book held its own.
I must admit, I didn't get into it as quickly as I did the other two books; these characters didn't seem to have quite the depth at the beginning of the book that Janie and Moses did.
Other than that, there's really not much for me to review - it's a Hurston book, and once you get into it, you get REALLY into it.
