https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61909.Mirror_Dance
A buddy read with Choko and Maria.The moment I start describing plot of this book I completely spoil the previous one - to the point that if you read my non-written plot description you might as well skip the previous installment.
Let me talk about a really bad cliche widely used in literature since the humanity discovered the wonders of a written word.
Everybody and their brother say that Miles develops as a character in this story.
So when people say somebody develops do they mean that the character in question suffers a lot?
What I mean is I cannot recall any character living happy life ever being called as "developing".
*** 4.75 ***A buddy read with Evgeny and Maria, because we love the Vorkosigans!!! "...“Since no one is perfect, it follows that all great deeds have been accomplished out of imperfection. Yet they were accomplished, somehow, all the same.”..." I wrote this passionate and thoughtful review, and GR ate it, forever lost in the gut of the internet... I am quite frustrated about that, but I still wanted to say that this book, although in no way perfect, was very emotional and it tugged on all of my
I am quite frustrated about that, but I still wanted to say that this book, although in no way perfect, was very emotional and it tugged on all of my heart-strings...
This book was not perfect, it was very, very painful to read at times and I cried like a baby on couple of occasions...
But despite all of that, this is a book I know I will remember for a long, long time, because it did not only leave its mark in my brain, but in my soul as well...
Now I wish you all Happy Reading and my you always find what you need in the pages of a good book!!!
when appreciating characterization, Space Opera - much like its cousin Epic Fantasy - is often more about surface appeal rather than depth.
I can enjoy the expansive world-building and intriguing concepts, the science and adventure, without realistic or meaningful characterization.
but it is not expansive in the way of most space operas.
for me, the novel's stakes felt so high not because of the importance or pathos of the mission (the rescue of slave children would be a generalized way to describe it) - but because the stakes for these utterly three-dimensional characters are so high.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
There were three trilogies on my Locus Quest reading list – Mars Trilogy, The Baroque Cycle and The Uplift Saga – where books two and three had won the Locus Sci-Fi Award, so I’d convinced myself that I should read the whole trilogy in each case to understand the award winners in context.
The Vorkosigan Saga is definitely a traditional series – and should therefore ideally be read in chronological order, but the award winners on my list were books two and nine in a fourteen (and still growing) book series.
"Miles Learns About Consequences" and "Mark Learns About Self-Identity." Holy shit, this book.
Flipping between perspectives--the first time Bujold has done this, I believe, and deftly utilized here--served to underscore the differences between Miles and Mark.
And I couldn't bear to put the book down when Mark came to Barrayar for the first time, met the family that adopted him with barely a breath of hesitation, met Cordelia who never fails to inspire admiration and respect even in the most recalcitrant of latecoming sons.
And of course, Miles' death and recovery, and Mark's torture and self-discovery.
Even before getting into the actual storyline of the book the narrative style in and of itself is already a pleasure to read.The Vorkosigan Saga is one of the most beloved long running science fiction series of all time.
However, for a richer reading experience you may prefer to read them in some kind of order, here is Ms. Bujold’s recommendation.Mirror Dance tells the story of Mark Vorkosigan, the clone of the series’ main character Miles Vorkosigan.
No reason why someone can not start reading the series with this particular book, though the author recommends reading Brothers in Arms first.
Having read a number of other reviews (because I try to avoid repeating what has been said already), this volume is perhaps the darkest and most emotionally-involved book in the series, with a mixture of adventure, her signature depth of characterization, tragedy, humor, familial drama, and a very in-depth exploration of identity and how the traumas of the past shape a person's life, but also the power to transform oneself and overcome these obstacles.I won't describe the plot in detail, as it is quite involved and ingenious and I'd rather focus on Mrs. Bujold's bravery as an author to suddenly take her beloved protagonist Miles off-stage for the entire middle section while giving center stage to his clone Mark, who we first meet in Brothers in Arms, and who frankly is a quite unpleasant and petulant person at first, hardly leading-character material.
The book goes into some effort to help Mark define that sense of self with significant time on Barryar for Mark while Miles's body is missing.Interestingly, one of the elements in the book is the mental health of the Vorkosigan brothers, and while Mark is clearly not well, we get some commentary from Cordelia regarding Miles's health in this regard as well.I will note there's a particularly gross scene with Mark and a very young woman (force-grown clone and enhanced through plastic surgery) that does illustrate Mark's mental problems, but also makes it very hard to sympathize with the character.
But Mark failed spectacularly in carrying out his task, partially because of the discovery that Miles himself has constructed an artificial identity as Admiral Miles Naismith of the Dendarii Free Mercenaries.
Now Mark again plans to step out of the mirror to assume the identity of his clone brother, this time as his Naismith persona.
When that desperate moment comes, can Mark carry out Miles' dance in his place?Mirror Dance is one of my favourite books in the Vorkosigan Saga.
Due to my disapproval of GR's new and highly subjective review deletion policy,
the rest of my (rather verbose) review is posted on my blog.
Must be the darkest book in the series.
That said it had some some really touching moments when I wanted to give the book 5*.
The most highlights in the series.I expected headcount towards the end - but worry not - the ending is positive."People are the only mirror we have to see ourselves in.
Just to the smart ones.""I once thought—I only found this out when I grew old, understand—that there is no more terrible fate than to become the mentor.
To send your student out knowing damn well you haven't had a chance to teach enough.
I had said this book was the best of the series and I stand by that.
I've been rereading these books of late and in hindsight I think that this is an excellent place to start reading the series.
Mark never meets Aral and Cordelia until he is twenty-two years old.
In this book Mark learns to stop being Miles and starts learning to be himself.
I think what makes the book so great is seeing Barrayar from an outsiders perspective.
Don't get me wrong, I love this whole series but I do think the books that go into darker places are the best ones.
I'm a little tempted to include some of these on my "Spy-Fi" shelf, LOL.I was advised for a long time to read the Miles Vorkosigan series, but as it's another rather long series I had put it off.
I went directly from this book into the one that follows it as I hadn't read that one either.Are there any drawbacks?
There were a couple I was very disenchanted with at first (including this one) but then, like an early generation star ship slowly accelerating toward the speed of light over a period of months the story was suddenly charging ahead, pulling me in and holding my interest.
4.0 stars. Another well-written, well-polotted and interesting story involving one of the best characters ever created, Miles Vorkosigan. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1995)Winner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1995)
And we're back to Mark!
Eeeennnteresting.
What's even more interesting are the ways in which this Vorkosigan book has a large chunk there in the middle without any Miles in it!
I was shocked when that happened, and I'm trying very hard to figure out how to allude to what happened without giving it away.
I wasn't sure how a Miles book without Miles would work.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
If you start reading Mirror Dance and like me, find yourself cringing as you read this early part - please, please, please don't give up on the book.
The problem, of course, as that he has no idea who that is or how to be him.All the same, he slowly begins to learn.There's a lovely part quite early on in his time of Barrayar, where Mark and Aral are talking and it is brought up that they have all studied each other and know a lot about each other."So what's the test?" [asks Mark:]"Ah, that's the trick of it.
It's more than satisfying to read, and it sucks you in quite nicely.Mile's corpulent brother has become more than fascinating in his own right.
I'm glad to know that Mile's genes can express his insanity in so many flavors.The first time I read it, I was shocked by the main reversal.
I HAD to KNOW, and that drive was enough to make me stay up all night both times I read the novel, tearing through it and sacrificing health to do so.
You know, just like Miles would.
It started out slow, got kind of crappy, then finished fantastically.
Excellently read again.The first third had a lot of back story in it.
If a person hadn't read any of the series, they would appreciate it.
BUT, it's a series.
Skip books at your own risk & let those of us who have read it read the new story.The middle got into Mark's head until it was just boring.
He had a horrible life & a lot to figure out.Got it.
Got it.
Got it.
Got it.
(Bored yet?
I tend to skip this one when I reread the series, these days. Indeed, this is probably only the second time I've read this one. That last quarter or so is just very hard to go through. It colors so much of the following books, though, and since I was listening with Melissa so she could hold me through the night terrors, I endured it again. And upped my unfair rating to where it should be and realized, once again, how much I love Bujold's stories and sheer brilliance.
Miles's clone brother Mark, who is trying very hard to be Lord Mark Vorkosigan, is deeply damaged, and his disastrous attempt to rescue fifty clones from House Bharaputra has far-reaching consequences I can't discuss without venturing into spoiler territory.
But despite their effects on Miles (who is, after all, the hero of this series), this book is ultimately about Mark even when, like the titular mirror dance, he's following in his brother's wake.I find the last...quarter, maybe?...of the book deeply moving, and I'm not sure whether it's that Bujold dared to make Mark a true sacrifice, or whether it's how Mark saves himself.
The theme of identity becomes even more prominent when Miles' clone brother Mark, introduced in the preceding "Brothers in Arms", assumes Miles' undercover identity for a distastrous raid to free a group of clones on an outlaw planet slated for brain transplants to extend the life of the rich.
Miles is challenged to rescue his brother and his loyal forces, and later Mark is driven to try to rescue Miles in turn.
I appreciated Bujold's character development and the interplay in the distinct personalities of the two brothers, both of which have to overcome handicaps to make a success in life and love.
Maybe I'll read this someday, but for now, I'm glad I skipped it, because it was holding me back from finishing the series, and I ended up loving Memory, something fierce.
I wanted it to be over.STORY BRIEF:From previous books: Miles is a government agent (sort of) and an admiral.
Because his father is a powerful government figure, enemies obtained Miles’ DNA and created a clone now called Mark.
Mark was set free (or escaped) from the bad guys and met Miles.In this story Mark pretends to be Miles in order to steal his ship and crew.
More than once I was thinking “finally something happens, but what just happened?” Based on the action and plot, the book should have been a lot shorter.Everything is told either from Mark’s or Miles’ point of view.
Miles Vorkosigan has been the starring character in this great series by Bujold...but when Mark, the clone of Miles that was sent to assassinate him now tries to take over his life...well, he just might get Miles killed anyway!I have been reading these in chronological order, so be ware of spoilers to those of you reading in publication order.Here, Mark is itching to save some of his fellow clones back on Jackson's Whole, and when Miles is away he takes advantage and orders the Dendarrion to the rescue!
Mark's reaction to the torture makes him both creepy and human.
"Don't begrudge me my little ship, Quinn. After all, my parents gave my big brother a whole fleet of ships." Mark Vorkosigan is a 22-year-old clone, six years younger than his "twin brother" Miles. His intentions are good when he sets out to free 50 adolescent clones, but he puts Miles in gravest jeopardy. However, in his subsequent efforts to save Miles, this tormented soul -- reared by a violent psychopath, trained to kill, and denied an identity -- discovers his true gifts, his Vorkosigan al
Mark Vorkosigan is a 22-year-old clone, six years younger than his "twin brother" Miles.
I loved seeing Taura tending the clone children, wearing a pink bow so she doesn't scare them, even though she is an 8-foot wolfgirl, and putting pink polish on her claws!Well done, how Mark used his alternate personalities (Gorge, Grunt, Howl, and Killer) to survive brutal torture and kill Baron Ryoval.
On planet Barrayar -- where Miles was born -- noble houses begin with Vor, as with Miles Vorkosigan, emperor Gregor Vorbarra, Ivan Vorpatril, etc.
I wasn't sure about this one. I like Mark, mostly, but he's no Miles, and Miles spends a lot of time off-screen. It all turned out well, it is a Vorkosigan book, after all, but it's not quite as much fun as usual.
And Mark finds himself in a situation where he really must prove himself.Example #1 of the many times when Bujold took me kicking and screaming in a direction I didn't want to go came a little while after the botched rescue operation, when it had become clear that Mark was going to be a principal POV character in the novel.
Right until I started caring about him quite passionately and desperately interrogating my friends who've already read the rest of the series about whether Mark was a POV character in any future books.Because this book is really about Mark coming into his own.
Buddy read with Choko and Evgeny.What makes a human being a person?
There's only one scene in the series more emotionally charged than this book but it revolves around a single emotion while Mirror Dance takes you on a rollercoaster of emotions and leaves you both drained and elated.
There's a lot of action in the beginning but most of the book is focused on character development, introduction to new characters and layering.
It's time to move to my favourite part of the series and I hope my fellow buddy readers will like it at least half as much as I do.
"If this was a movie, I wouldn't watch it." -DevinI'm pretty conflicted about a review for this book.
It deserves five stars in my opinion, but it was wholly disturbing.
A few parts I felt safe enjoying, and the ending was hopeful (entirely more so than I was expecting), but the book taking place primarily on Jackson's Whole means BAD THINGS HAPPENED.
Jackson's Whole is one of those places where practicing morality on just about every level goes from challenging to insanely difficult.
A HIVE OF SCUM AND VILLAINY ahem.ANYWAY.
Oh God the feels. This is my favourite Vorkosigan book, at least since Warrior's Apprentice, and definitely one of my favourites ever. Also the most traumatic and one of the wisest. There are parts of this book scarred into my brain that I will never forget, but those parts include not only the trauma but the way that trauma is survived and dealt with. Ugh this was so good and so painful. Edit: and then Jasmine saw this review and
Mark himself doesn’t know how to react to kindness and very naturally rebels from becoming Miles.Mark, having been created on Jackson’s Whole, hates the cloning industry with a passion because those clones are created as bodies for aging people who have enough money to buy new bodies; the brains of the created clones are discarded and replaced with the brains of their purchasers.
Mark’s own thoughts show how he changes over the course of the book in reaction to the chain of events he started the moment he pretended to be Admiral Naismith.*****************Mark, 1%: My name is what I will.
