https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47713.Collected_Poems_1912_1944
Statuesque and austere, H.D.'s poems hybridize the classical and the modern. Ancient forms fuse with the poet's unaffected language; Greco-Roman myths populate her poems' New England and wartime settings; her crisp images allude to obscure historical events or religious lore. Her early work revives the intimacy of Greek lyric, while her later work modernizes the sprawl of epic. Although not frequently taught or read, H.D.'s work has an astounding level of craft: her poetry often surpasses that of her more famous male contemporaries in terms of its complexity of thought and form.

As I walked through the library during finals week, bored and re-looking for the misplaced version of my favorite copy of "The Complete Works of T.S. Eliot" I said to myself, "Andee, you can't find this copy because you can't keep reading Eliot over and over; read something else." I browsed through the library's scant collection of postmodern poetry.
I looked over some poems written in German.
I noticed the first collection of poems was written in 1916 and titled "Sea Garden".
Having an obscure obsession with the ocean, flower gardens, and early-1900s poetry, I knew I had to read this.And upon reading it I was quite impressed.
D. (Hilda Doolittle) was a key poet in the modernist poetic revolution of the early twentieth century, and though she continued to produce excellent work throughout her life, she is still best remembered for the early lyrics which introduced a unique style and consciousness into modern poetry.
She's sometimes criticized for having a limited technical and emotional range, and for not developing much during the course of her career, but be that as it may, at her best she created poems which you can read once and remember almost verbatim for the rest of your life.
(Hilda Doolittle) was an important figure in Modernism, one of the first Imagists, friends with Ezra Pound, Sigmund Freud, and D.H. Lawrence, and in this collection -- though it contains by no means all of her writing -- you can sense the influence and synergy from all of these interactions.
I'm giving it 4 out of 5 stars because I personally am not a big fan of poetry that relies heavily on the reader's knowledge of classical / Greek drama, and a good part of the poems in this collection heavily reference that stuff.
However, the other poetry really drew me in.
For a more in-depth discussion and sample bits and pieces, you can visit my blog: http://outsideofacat.wordpress.com/2014/12/30/you-are-even-a-world-a-planet-h-d-s-collected-poems-1912-44/
I had only recognized H.D. vaguely as a member of the Pound circle, until I'd heard a vintage recording of her reading one of her poems--about Helen and Achilles meeting in the afterlife-- on a Caedman tape with five other women poets. Had to RUN out and buy this. Beautiful, amazing poems mostly couched in the mythology of the Greeks--echoes in Anne Carson, who I also love, but these are short lined and precise, both fragile and passionate.
reading HD is kind of like reading a lot of Sappho or Sappho poem fanfiction ...
Partially because if the brief heartbreak and partially because of the Greek references and also probably because I am in the middle of reading the Anne Carson translations of Sappho.
Trilogy which I was really really looking forward to reading ends up being a completely different poem than anyone could have prepared me for.
A kind of dream essay that takes the fall of Troy and the burning of London and the birth of Christ and the character of Mary Magdalene and ends up with a poem.
Reading her Collected Poems, having not had much prior acquaintance, was a 600-odd page pleasant surprise for me.
If you can imagine someone who focuses on the 'thingness' of the world like Robinson Jeffers but without the melodrama, while at the same time being a good deal more classical than the early Pound but without the goofiness, you might have an idea of her style.
Look up "The Mysteries" for a good example of her longer poems.
Sea Garden = <3. Just read "The God" series to write a paper. She might be a genius. Will work my way through Trilogy another time.
Louis L. Martz meticulously put together this exhaustive collection of H. D.s published and unpublished poetry written between 1912 and 1944, along with a very interesting and rewarding 27 page introduction. The first part of the book consists of published books of verse in chronological order; the second part of the book consists of her unpublished poetry and of the poetry she published in magazines but never collected in book form, in chronological order, as far as Martz could reconstruct such
The first part of the book consists of published books of verse in chronological order; the second part of the book consists of her unpublished poetry and of the poetry she published in magazines but never collected in book form, in chronological order, as far as Martz could reconstruct such an order; the third part of the book consists of a trilogy of long poems originally published separately in booklet form.
After this book, comes the long section on unpublished and uncollected poetry from a period considered by many critics to be H.
D.´s work reminds me of William Blake´s thirty one year journey from Songs of Innocence (1789) and his later startling and inminentely memorable The Tyger and The Sick Rose to the final hermetic but intense personal “prophetics books” like Milton and Jerusalem.
Sea Garden; The God; Translations; Hymen; Heliodora
Just three of my favorites from the uncollected and unpublished section of this book:P338The GiftArd
I will never forget Sea Garden, it freed me.
After reading H.D. love feels like an emptied word.
Once you read about sea violets and sea roses and sea gardens you realise that what you believed about love was too artificial.
You really crave the thought after that that maybe flowers are just better, better than love, than the word love.
Maybe it's all about flowers and sea gardens.
H.D. has broken down my defences and I feel my imagery has been ambushed by the lack of hers in my own mind.
H.D. is one of the best Modernist writers. Unfortunately her work is not known as well as other writers, maybe because she is a poet who explores the world weakness and fragility of patriarchy. Her approach to the classics emphasizes female characters, which expose the patriarchal-made-word-world that still lingers until these days. Passing from her brief imagist poems through "A Dead Priestess Speaks," a series of strong poems in the same category of her well known Trilogy, the reader cannot help but read and reread her archaeological work.
H. D. is my poetic inspiration - she is an amazing poet. A Modernist, a feminist, and a brave, audacious writer in the face of her many critics. I love reading and re-reading her poetry: aggressive, fierce, visceral, but so lyrical, evocative, and full of passion. I can't get enough of her poetry. Combined with Adrienne Rich's Of Woman Born and Luce Irigaray's analysis of the Mother-Daughter relationship in the Demeter-Persephone myth, Doolittle's poetry inspires and encourages my own work-in-progress poetry collecction.
Worth the read, filled with names and stories from Greek and Roman history and mythology. It is helpful if these mean something to you, but even if they do not, the language used in the poems is beautiful and creates a full world.
I confess, I read this going "ok, yeah, yeah, nature is pretty, I get it. Get to the part where you write about the shitty relationships you have and how much D.H. Lawrence sucks." The woo-woo nature pretty poems are well done, but the shitty relationship poems are holyshit good.
If you can write exclusively in Ancient Greek imagery and be considered Modern, you have something there.
O HD,the dust riseswith the arid windyour pagesthe white messengersof Athenian plays.If I come back to youwill you wait?
Eurydice is my favorite!
I liked these originally due to their mythical themes and descriptions of nature... Now I see the sexual dimension and they all read like pornos.
My favorite poet!
I fell in love with some of H.D.'s poetry in a course I took on Literature By and About Women. She uses a lot of mythological characters and stories. My favorite thus far is "Oread."
Still reading and thinking here. Strong images. The more I read about her, the more interesting it gets.
my favorite poet...
Yet here she is today and when I found Sappho in my book of Greek Verse I was especially impressed by this little poem: ForgottenDead shalt thou lie; and nought Be told of thee or thought, For thou hast plucked not of the Muses' tree: And even in Hades' halls Amidst thy fellow-thralls No friendly shade thy shade shall company!This is Hardy’s translation of Sappho and what the BriefPoems blog brings home is that another poet would produce quite a different interpretation of the identical Greek language original.
Don't get me wrong: H.D. is one of my very favorite poets, and there's a lot of fantastic work in here. But books of poetry shouldn't be 600 words long, and no one deserves everything they've ever written to be compiled into one volume, because no one writes only masterpieces. It's exhausting to get to the good stuff because there's just so much work crammed into this book. Whoever did this edition, please, release H.D. from this prison.
Favorite poet.
I like her, as a person, as a woman.. because of her life.. and some poems. but still as a poetress she is not the ONE I would LOOOVE AND aDMIREEE....
