https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7919357-welsh-fairy-tales
The Welsh Fairy Tales is a very interesting and entertaining book with some of the oldest fairy tales to have been recorded. These tales have it all: Merlin, Arthur, magic, dragons, damsels, fairies, elves, witches, mermaids, knights, etc. But I must say that all these fairies that bet on their names always fall on their hubris. And I learned that fairies don't like to be struck which is practically a nudge or touch and they don't like iron.
Originally published in 1857, Griffis' work was meant to be a semi-scholarly review of Welsh mythological beings such as fairies and the like. Griffis collected stories, beliefs and sightings from locals while the Celtic belief in such mythological beings was still extant. I enjoyed comparing these beliefs with the Irish gaelic versions.
I made it 60% of the way through and just could not get into the stories.
Tales It’s a bit strange to me, having this partly like the older tales, yet modern ideas and language cut into it.
The author of this retold collection of Welsh fairy tales was an American of Welsh ancestry.
This explains a few narrative interventions of this type:'Now at Bettws-y-Coed-that pretty place which has a name that sounds so funny to us Americans and suggests a girl named Betty the Co-ed at college'It also explains why his tale introducing Saint David focuses on the patrons invention of cheese on toast as much as anything else.
This is followed by 'The Great Red Dragon of Wales', which retells the myth of the young Merlin's trick and prophesy, where the waring red and white serpents he conjured up represented the Cymric and Saxon antagonists.
This is a strange little book.
Griffis, an American of Welsh decent, has evidently heard much of Wales, but has not entirely grasped the meaning of everything so heard.
There are some glaring errors here in names, meanings and history.
His borrowing of Shakespeare's Puck is annoying, as is his constant references to the 'Welshery'.
The book is evidently aimed at children, but the political commentary is out of place in such a collection.
There are much better introductions to Welsh lore out there.
I usually enjoy traditional Fairy tales, even when they’re a bit weird and stilted but this collection was dire.I know it was written a long time ago but the language was dull and the random ‘modern’ comparisons Griffis used were jarring and out of place.I struggled my way through stubbornly but there was very little enjoyment to be had – I knew several of the stories from living near to Wales all of my life and these retellings were far from the best I’ve heard.I certainly won’t be rushing to recommend it to anyone, luckily it was free.
I found the first few stories interesting to read however the more I read I found the stories became repetitive. I was also disappointed to note a few errors - namely the spelling of eisteddfod. Whilst errors are to be expected in a book/ebook to find such a word as Eisteddfod, that is integral to Welsh history, misspelt was shame.I personally think it is a book where it is best to read only 2 or three tales at a time.
1 Welsh Rabbit and Hunted hates. How did we get from cheese on toast to a saint? Did not make sense.A lot of mistakes on the history of Wales. For example London bridge was described as Tower bridge(I know that's in London), a welsh hat was described as a witches hat not a bonnet. For me being welsh this was a waste of my time.
These are lovely stories. I never knew King Arthur was Welsh! I find it fascinating that there was another part of the Great Britain I did not know about, not that I know all that much, but still! Wales is now on my list of places to visit and travel!
Cute tales full of fairies and the like, but the author took a great deal of liberties when explaining the tales to the American audiences he was writing to, which definitely detracted from the stories.
Some of the stories were new to me, but the compilation is repetitious in places and the modern references felt odd in the telling of these ancient stories. Glad it was free.
I loved it. There is Welsh in my family and that's why I started reading it. I love hearing tales fromDifferent culture's.
Perfect for children. I love to read the old school fairy tales, they always teach children the little important things of life.
Welsh Fairy Tales is a lot better than English fairy tales.But the drawback is that some stories contain a lot old English.
A rather disappointing re-telling. Find a version by a different author.
A good collection of lore from the past.
