https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61957.Decision_at_Doona
It was one of three Anne McCaffrey stories that I remember as Science Fiction from McCaffrey.
It's also about tolerance of others adults learning to share, without figing and war, and the shere joy of exploring and understanding what's in the galaxy other than us.
One I'll share with my children as they grow older.
In fact, I may go see if I can find my copy now.It's a good read that the entire family can enjoy from the moment their old enough to understand basic concepts until they are grandparents with children crowded on the couch, reading for the enjoyment of reading.
Now this is the type of science fiction I love.
McCaffrey also looks at the problems with non-resident government making ALL the decisions with few or none of the facts - even not believing the facts they are given or that the government may be incorrect.
Sometime if we take the government out of our lives the people get along just fine.I know why my novels are the way they are - because I grew up on this type of science fiction and fantasy.
Before dragons Anne McCaffrey wrote many other scifi books.
Decision At Doona was one of these.What happens when two sentient species find themselves colonizing the same planet?Both species come from overpopulated, paranoid planets where most people are too apathetic to dare any adventure.
Both species come from planets where almost the only life forms left are they themselves.Todd is any parent's nightmare.
He wants to be loud when rules call for quiet.
He wants to run when rules call for minced walking steps.
Even at six he is a rebel.Todd is the link between the Hrrubans and the humans.
re-read again 10/8/2013
Earth is enormously overcrowded, so Ken is excited to learn that Doona, a planet uninhabited by intelligent sentient beings, has been discovered and that he and his family have been picked to be some of the first colonists.
Doona seems perfect - until the human colonists come across a settlement of cat-like aliens known as Hrrubans.
And the colonists anxiously read communications from Earth using microfilm readers.The thing that really turned me off this book, though, was Todd, Ken’s 6-year-old son.
Decision at Doona was published in 1969 byAnne McCaffrey, In this book, two races, both living on overcrowded world, decide to live on the same pastoral planet at the same time.
Despite that, I have a great respect for the book, for writing an SF novel without violence as the narrative backbone is harder than it looks.
The colonists here have purposely chosen a lower-tech lifestyle, an idea that returns in future McCaffrey books.
The book shows that despite laws, both races have the same goals of living good lives, and it's up to the ordinary person to seize that.
Decision at Doona, written by Anne McCaffrey in 1969, tells the story of two distopian worlds whose citizens accidently colonize the same world. Even after 39 years, this story captivates the reader with the the confusion that can come from two law-abiding groups when neither set of laws allows for the existence of the other. The story of how they get beyond confusion and politics to forge a dynamic new community is satisfying without being sacchrine. This book is still fun to read.
Early McCaffrey at her best. This book is a classic so I will not say much other than that I had not read it until now. A must for the furry audience in my opinion. And I will certainly hunt down the other two books in the series, written and released much later in the author's career.
Good for what it is, but still not one of Anne McCaffrey's best.
I was pretty excited to find a new (to me) Anne McCaffrey book - I love both her straight sci-fi books and her sci-fantasy books (even if she would have said they were all sci-fi)!Anyhow, the short version is we follow Ken Reeve, a fairly likable protagonist as he along with a small group of other colonists sent from an overcrowded, mostly apathetic Earth population start a settlement on a "pastoral jewel" planet called Doona.
I do love a lot of Anne McCaffrey's later work more than this earlier piece and I'll always have a soft spot in my heart for her books.
Before the dragons of Pern, Anne McCaffrey wrote several sci-fi novels, this among them.
In that context, it's an interesting read.
Even outside of the context there's a lot to be said for the concept of aliens that are distinctly feline.
Example: the novel finishes with a woman crying because she's pregnant and afraid and the male character goes 'why is she crying??
The word 'females' was used so frequently and with such derision I felt like I was reading the neckbeard manifesto.
It's impossible for me to imagine that not long after writing this the very same author wrote a character like Lessa of Pern.
So sophisticated, & advanced enough to approach the human settlers in a non-militaristic way.
Far more advanced than humanity will ever be, & not just technologically, although they are attempting it in this piece of fiction.
I see some people have commented on the subordinate roles of women here - this is the case with humans but not so obvious with the Hrrubans, hence Mrrva 'playing house on Rrala'.
Certainly her later books had good, focal roles for women, the Pern & Petaybee series, for example.I have to agree with Timothy McNeil about poor Ilsa.
Being a long term fan of Anne McCaffrey.
my opinion is that it's a pretty good book, but okay for her.
The beginning felt a little choppy, like it was missing chapters or at least needed a slightly more detail to fill in the big time jumps they had.
I would have liked slightly more flowing detail on the situation.
Then there was a much smaller problem where the characters seemed not to quite fit there backstory at times, but I could forgive.
The rest wasn't bad, a good solid Anne Mccaffrey book, about a political situation involving two species.
I've never really liked McCaffrey's science fiction stories.
They always feel like a sketch more than a painting.
Pern, on the other hand, even if you read only one book, feels more vibrant and alive.
I can feel the dragons humming.That being said, this is one of McCaffrey's better science fiction tales.
Dated, of course, like watching old Star Trek episodes, and technology of today far outstrips anything imagined back in the 60s.
But it's kinda fun to imagine the rigid rules and bureaucracy of 2 similar civilizations who accidentally encounter one another.
And of course, cat people are cool.
If anyone else had written this book, I’d mark it as excellent and give it a good review (oh, I just did?).But given that Anne McCaffrey, one of the best science fiction writers in the business, wrote it, I have to say it’s a wee bit below her best output. Still an engaging tail (spelling intentional, and a bit of a pun on one of her characters and a piece of rope — read it to find out).Yes, I enjoyed it. Yes, I’ll reread it again and again over the years. And yes, I recommend it.
just got the last book in the trilogy so rereading the first and i still enjoy it as well as i did originally. first contact is a common theme for science fiction and this is an interesting look at it,the story flows nicely and the moral fiber of Anne's books always rings true the character development is excellent and she doesn't allow introducing a whole new world and the home planets and there governmental organizations get bogged down in minutia.
I'd forgotten how much I enjoy this book. I was originally going to give it a 4, based on what I remembered of reading it before, but after reading it again, the pacing and general plot are just really good in this. I particularly enjoy Todd's character, as it reminds me very much of myself and some of the other kids in my family. Also, cat people are worth a whole star all by themselves. ;)
This sci fi story was written quite a while back but it holds up nicely. Two groups want to colonize the same world and the consequences, an interesting read, with especially vivid characters.
I love this book. I find something new in it every time I read it. There's a pure enjoyment in the story and then there's appreciation for the ideas contained in this book.
I was really surprized to find I enjoyed it as much as I did.
originally published in 1969 and it shows.To me, the worst aspect of this book was the patriarchal nature of the male/female social roles.
And I really don't understand why McCaffrey was stuck there when Andre Norton--a much older writer--had managed to move beyond the culture of the time.
But no, Decision at Doona has an all male leadership in both alien and human cultures, while human men do all work outside the home, human women do all the cooking and childrearing, plus there's the classic female=passive nurturer, male=active provider nonsense.
It was disappointing, as was McCaffrey's failure to include any speculation about how technology might develop in her future.
When Todd and his family land on Doona, they think they're alone. Todd is the most "maladjusted" child on Earth (which actually means he's a perfectly healthy, normal human boy his age!) so he does just great as a colonist.I think its ironic that, although McCaffrey wrote this book decades ago, the underlying message--a scoff at psychiatric mis-labeling of children, is even more apt today.Read the book. Its cute, its funny, its scifi, its message is real and touching.
This is a clever story of a group of colonists on a supposedly uninhabited planet who discover there are sentient natives already living here. Due to their philosophy they colonists must leave. The characters are interesting but the overdrawn glamorization of the six-year-old wunderkind, Todd, is a bit nauseating. The whole thing is very 60’s but this book does hold up well for a re-reading after almost fifty years
Found memoriesI first read this story when I was a youth. Those days are long past. I write my own novels now and wanted to see how close my style was to this great author. You'll have to check for that answer on your own. But to the point of my review of this story. Like I found it so long ago, it was pleasantly entertaining and subtle upon the social dialogue that Anne was conveying. The characters were interesting and engaging. A great read for all ages.
The unimaginative aliens and meagre worldbuilding are distractions - this book is much more focused on pedagogy and equitation, which feels like a cruel bait and switch. There is some heart and a decent storyteller’s sensibility to the proceedings, but the stakes are so low, the dialogue so ridiculous, and the story so repetitious it’s hard to get invested. There are far better first contact stories out there.
Doona is an idyllic planet for an Earth colony - it has no sapient inhabitants and is a goo pastoral planet suitable for raising nearly extinct populations of cows, horses, chickens, etc.One day Ken Reeve is checking across the river and a ball comes out of the bushes, followed by two youngsters - who are not human.....
While a wonderful concept of two species both meeting for the first time under tough conditions and figuring out where to go from here with a law in place that prohibits interactions with aliens... even this short book went on for far too long and was dragged out quite a bit. This would have worked great as a short story but as it is, it became difficult to get through in the later pages.
A decent story with interesting ideas about future society and a tightly populated Earth. I probably would have rated it higher if it wasn't for the 50s social norms all throughout. Women wailing, casual corporal punishment, etc. Not likely to continue the series.
A great story about a human colony's discovery and interactions with an alien race a sentient felines. I live this trilogy and every time I read it I find myself wishing I could be there for real, not just in my imagination.
This one is an old Anne McCaffrey book. Reminds you of Andre Norton's writing. Always good.The whole thing hung on a 6 year old kid adept at learning languages
