https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666758.The_Knowledge_of_the_Holy
But the problem herein is that if Tozer is right, and that the chief problem is that we've lost the address of God and our prayers are thereby null and ineffective, clearly no effort on our part can reinitialize that pointer.
I can’t say whether or not merely thinking the right things was enough for A.W. Tozer, but it doesn’t work too well for me.
One felt the leg and said, "An elephant is like a tower!".
An elephant is like a big sack!" They could never come to an agreement and quarreled the whole time.I believe we face similar issues when we attempt the impossible task of knowing God. Much of our disagreements in Christianity come because we are like blind men, arguing that the elephant is indeed a tower, or a rope or a sack, and much of Christianity suffers because of not realizing that He is inscrutable and unknowable.So then, how shall we know the unknowable?
The book Knowledge of the Holy, by A.W. Tozer, covers some essential thoughts and attributes of God, as well as doctrines, that every Christian should think about.
As Tozer rightly points out, "The study of the attributes of God, far from being dull and heavy, may for the enlightened Christian be a sweet and absorbing spiritual exercise.
These answers He has provided in nature, in the Scriptures, and in the person of His Son." How marvelous it is to wonder at His greatness and to think rightly about our God!
The most profound offence is his neglect of the love of God. While for Tozer everything else such as God's Justice and Omnipotence is a scriptural certitude but when it comes to the sentence "God is love," suddenly Tozer becomes a 19th century Bill Clinton debating the meaning of the word is!
God's love is, rather than his essential nature revealed in Christ, one attribute of God of equal, and dare I say contingent, importance to Tozer's own concepts of justice, omnipotence and sovereignty.
God's sovereignty doesn't just mean he is ultimately all powerful!
The far-reaching implications of learning more about God – through the combined study of this book and Scripture – compel me to think that one would do well to engage solely in the study of God for the remainder of this life.
And I have personally experienced the rich transformation that has been effected in my life as a result of what I have learned thus far.
This was a great book. I loved the whole premise of keeping God exalted above all, and our main concern. When you get focused enough and in love enough with just who God is and what he’s done for you, you become truly satisfied. We as humans could definitely use that reminder of God more often. Just forgetting the world and following Christ with everything you are. Hard to keep in mind constantly.
In this work, Tozer tackles arguably the most important question in life—Who is God? He correctly ascertains that so as we think about God, so as life goes. And in his attempt to tell what God is like, he succeeds in at least outlining the major characteristics of God as held by classical, orthodox Christianity.  I’d venture to guess that concepts of God’s unity, simplicity, and being aren’t being discussed, much less understood, outside of a few seminaries, and most of them Catholic. The forma
In this work, Tozer tackles arguably the most important question in life—Who is God?
I’d venture to guess that concepts of God’s unity, simplicity, and being aren’t being discussed, much less understood, outside of a few seminaries, and most of them Catholic.
The format in which Tozer takes up this discussion is easily negotiated (short chapters and only 23 in total), but the nature of his writing is at times distracting.
Tozer is more than eager to have Reason sit outside while the Heart enters into the Holy of Holies.
Reason may well be faith’s catalyst, especially when it comes to embracing many of the concepts Tozer so wishes the Church to embrace.
"The Knowledge of the Holy" is a wonderful classic by A. W. Tozer, where he deals with the Divine Attributes of God, such as: The self-existence of God The self-sufficiency of God The immutability of God The eternity of God The wisdom of God And more... His faithfulness, love, mercy, grace, holiness, sovereignty, that He is all-knowing (omniscience), all-powerful (omnipotent) and ever-present (omnipresence). This is a marvelous little classic worth reading and meditating over. Add it to your library!
Another of Tozer ' s gems. A description of a selection of God's attributes. It is popular now to talk of God in terms of being a god of love. This diminishes Him by making him into a god of one dimension. God operates with an infinite number of attributes ( many we are most likely unaware of) and all simultaneously and equally. By limiting Him we reduce his influence on the world and our lives.
This book is amazing and I would recommend it to every Christian our there! It’s extremely important to know who our Lord is, and this book covered that so well! It can be a bit of a hard read, but when you figure out what he’s saying, you not only feel super smart because you know what he’s talking about, but you also learn so much! It’s very well written, and a very important read.
A must read for every Christian. What is the largest problem with Western Christianity today? A weak gospel and a lack of knowledge and understanding of who God is.This book will open up to you the attributes of God in simplicity and majesty. The most important thing about you is what you think of when you think of God, read this book.
An exceptional book that serves as a condensed systematic theology. Very simple and easy-to-read, with brief but deep chapters. Each chapter covers an aspect of God and is continuously pointing to how majestic God truly is. This is not meant to be a "one-stop-shop" for your theology but it's a fantastic starting point for beginning a study.
Love this little book. A.W. Tozer explores the many attributes of God in a way that is refreshing and life-giving. I suggest reading this book slowly to be able to take it all in.
The Knowledge of the Holy, by A.W. Tozer, was my first experience actually reading something by the famous, often quoted Tozer.
I have to say it wasn't quite what I expected.
The Knowledge of the Holy explores the nature of God by looking at *some* of His attributes.
The speech is lofty and Tozer uses circular logic/reasoning at times.
I especially loved Tozer's emphasis that, "God's attributes are not isolated traits of His character, but facets of His unitary being...
to have a correct understanding of the attributes it is necessary that we see them all as one."
I read this book at a rate of one chapter each morning, kind of ‘devotional theology’ to go along with regular bible reading and prayer.
It was an experiment, and it was great – it may reveal more about my personality than anything else, but I find this kind of theological reading much more encouraging and practically helpful than typical devotional material that I have read in the past.
The book itself is known as a classic, and deservedly so.
An amazing amount of profound theology packed into a small volume, and communicated in simple and concise language.
One can hardly go wrong with Tozer.
Knowledge of the Holy – A.W. TozerIn my early Christian life I had made it a practice to read this book every year.
It is indeed a short book filled with a wonderful word display of the attributes of God.Tozer does lead the reader to a good understanding of the person of God in the best possible human terms.
In Chapter 15 concerning the Faithfulness of God I find just a couple of personal incites among many that are core values for the believer:The first is that right thinking of who God is might be the most essential concern for the committed Christian.
The believing man does not ponder the Word and arrive at faith by a process of reasoning, nor does he seek confirmation of faith from philosophy or science.
However painful, it is precisely this acute moral consternation that produces true repentance and makes a robust Christian after the penitent has been dethroned and has found forgiveness and peace through the gospel.For every man it must be Christ or eternal tragedy.Enter the inner chamber of thy mind; shut out all thoughts save that of God and such as can aid thee in seeking Him. Speak now, my whole heart!
And what drove those desires was not mushy, lovey language or heart sob stories, but a clear Scripture filled presentation of the person of God. These chapters left me desirous to find a place to pray and read or just to sit quietly and think for a while.
I think Tozer did an excellent job in this, and for that reason I highly recommend this work.If you desire to know the God of the Bible in a way that is theologically sound and at the same time be challenged to move deeper into a heartfelt communion with Him, this is the book for you.P. S.

What can I say about a book that gives you a first hand look into the face of God except I hope you enjoy it as much as I did as many times as I did. This is a book that you will return to time and time again as you seek God's Holy Spirit to turn its truth into revelation in your life.
O carte folositoare pentru cei care cauta sa cunoasca mai mult despre Dumnezeu, caci cunoasterea Lui nu se poate implini decat personal, si nu prin carti, sunt descrise trasaturile Fiintei Lui si caracterul Lui, atat cat se poate prin cuvinte...Tozer chiar a fost un om pocait.
It’s a great book studying all the perspectives and attributes of God. I wish more scripture reference (with cross references) was added into the book, but overall it is a great book for anyone who is interested in grasping a better understanding of God. 8.0/10
This book is amazing.Who is God?
God is there and that is enough, right?Wrong.It makes a very big difference in how we think, speak, and act.
What we believe about God seeps into every part of our lives, as well it should.
Tozer relies first and foremost on Scripture to speak for him, but also pulls from Christian poems and hymns often.
I'll be rereading it that way at some point.I'll end the same way Tozer did: "We are left for a season among men; let us faithfully represent Him here."
This little book is packed full of so much truth that is was at first overwhelming.
The style in which it is written is beautiful, a little like Lewis.
Tozer takes truths that you expect you know a decent amount and draws them out so brilliantly you are left feeling wonderfully small in comparison to the great mass of beauty and goodness that is God. This book is very comforting, poetic, and philosophical (which is my favorite kind of book).
When you return to your Bible, it feels so much more wonderful.
Compelling , challenging , brilliant, deep, profound. I don’t think I can say anything that has not been said before about this book. Tozers underlying theme is for the Christian to have a high view of his/her God. He writes “low views of God destroy the gospel for all who hold them”. Tozer does a magnificent job of presenting the attributes of God in a deep but very readable manner. This should be essential reading for any Christian willing to grow in the ‘knowledge of the Holy’.Very highly recommend it.
I found this to be helpful book that reminded me of the glory of God. The chapters are very short and lend themselves to a daily devotional reading. I would recommend this to someone curious about who God is and what the Bible reveals of his character or for a Christian who wants to be reminded of the holiness and majesty of God.
Tozer says in the beginning of this book that if people still read Augustine, there would be no need for his book. Well, I am reading Augustine, and I still think this book is well worth reading. It is a dense book that needs to be read with a pen and paper in hand, and deserves to be read again and again.
Arise, my soul, arise; Shake off thy guilty fears; The bleeding Sacrifice In my behalf appears: Before the throne my Surety stands, My name is written on His hands. My God is reconciled; His pardoning voice I hear: He owns me for His child; I can no longer fear: With confidence I now draw nigh, And “Father, Abba, Father,” cry. Charles Wesley
