https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7624.Lord_of_the_Flies
Things turned bad when there's a power struggle between the group leaders, worsened by various sightings of a monster in the island.
No, don't think about "Lost" because this is way different.No wonder I had goosebumps at the end, because this book is so true to what happens in the world today.
When men tried to govern themselves (and started the whole process with goodwill inside), but blinded with egotism and lust for power, tragedy and destruction in society are inevitable.Human nature is corrupt, it only takes a trivial thing to make its nature controlled by nothing but malice.
And there's a lot to pick out.From what little of the story that is actually coherent, I can see why this book has had a lasting effect on social commentary since it's initial publishing.
Instead, we're thrown interchangeable names of interchangeable boys who are only developed enough to conform to the basic archetypes Golding requires to hobble his little story along: The Leader, The Rebel, The Fat-Kid, The Nose-Picker, etc.
And as the main characters are a bunch of kids not worth caring about, thus goes the way of the story.And the prose?
but a story about upper middle class, privately-educated, silver-spoon boys.I can understand why some people interpret this book as racist.
and proceeds to show us how these little jewels of the empire are no better for their fancy education and gold-plated upbringing.I think that seemed especially clear from the ending when the officer says 
Golding's way of saying that human nature is universal and no one can escape it.Some readers say that you have to have quite a negative view of human nature already to appreciate this book, but I don't think that's true.
Lord of the Flies is one of the most disturbing books I've ever read. It was required high school reading and since then, I've read it four more times. It is as disturbing now as it was then. Using a group of innocent schoolboys stranded on an island, the author very realistically portrays human behavior in an environment where civilization no longer has meaning.
لا أظن أحدا درس الإنجليزية ولم تمر عليه هذه الروايةكنتُ في عامي الرابع وقت دراستهاومن أول وهلة جذبتنيوبينما كان زملائي يهتمون بما سيأتي منها في الامتحانكنت أنا ألتهمها التهامالن أنسى ما حييت شعوري وأنا أقرأ الحوار ما بين سيد الذباب وسايمونثم مقتله بعدهاالمرة الأولى كنت بجوار دكتور المادة أمام الجميعأقرأ هذا الجزء على زملائي -ولم أكن قد وصلت له بعد في قراءتي المنزليةولكن بما أنه المشهد الأهم-ويحمل لغز اسم الرواية الغريب- فقد ارتأى الدكتور قرائنا له ومن ثم مناقشته بتمعنأذكر يومها أنني اهتز صوتي لل
لا أظن أحدا درس الإنجليزية ولم تمر عليه هذه الروايةكنتُ في عامي الرابع وقت دراستهاومن أول وهلة جذبتن
“We did everything adults would do. What went wrong?”  For me, this quote sums up the entire book. It’s a powerful exploration of humanity and the wrongness of our society and it also demonstrates the hypocrisy of war. Adults judge the behaviour of children, but are they really any better? I think not. The scary thing about this book is how real it is. The Lord of the Flies bespeaks the brilliance of realistic dystopian fiction, it gives you a possible world scenario, a bunch of very human cha
It’s a powerful exploration of humanity and the wrongness of our society and it also demonstrates the hypocrisy of war.
It sort of says something to me, a quiet acknowledgement about how messed up things can be given the right circumstances and these children are so very quick to embrace it with unflinching enthusiasm (at least, when one of them leads the way.)It’s a good book with a lot of ideas though at times I found the prose a little hard to follow.
As someone who spends my time working in consensus based groups seeking to challenge hierarchical structures, I have a strong belief that this is not how things need to be.
It takes a bunch of unlearning and relearning to use these formats - simply being in a new space or being a child does not do this work.
While it's quite true that men (or at least masculinity) control government, it's ridiculous to use only boys to extrapolate what ways of governing ourselves are possible.I read this book in 1996 when I was a freshman in highschool, so maybe there's something I missed.
”They accepted the pleasures of morning, the bright sun, the whelming sea and sweet air, as a time when play was good and life so full that hope was not necessary and therefore forgotten.”So this was a book many people had to read when they went to school and in some way this already says a lot about “Lord of the Flies”.
So we’ve got to do the right things.” Oh, how often I thought back to this quote when I read on with horror, every new chapter revealing another aspect of the dark abyss of human kind.
Years after I read this masterpiece, it is still chilling. Golding spins a yarn that could have been told centuries ago, primal human nature unmoored from civilization does not take long to break away and devolve into a feral thing.As good today, and as haunting, as it was when it was published in 1954. This should be on a list of books that must be read.** 2018 addendum - it is a testament to great literature that a reader recalls the work years later and this is a book about which I frequently think.
Golding said he came up with the idea of book after reading his children "Treasure Island or Coral Island or some such Island" in the years of the hydrogen bomb and Stalin and asked his wife, "why don't I write a children's story about how people really are, about how people actually behave?" To me that's a chilling question and it reveals an architecture not based on rigid Freudian or historical or symbolic parallels.
But I chose not to give it five stars because at the center of Golding's book is a kind of rigid Christian iconography, like that you find in the Poisonwood Bible, that offends me, perhaps because it reminds me of the way I wrote my Freshman year of college, or perhaps because that rigidity, that allegiance to a=b symbolic logic insults my intelligence.
Let me make a case for keeping it on the curriculum despite the dated language, the graphic violence, the author's personality...There are two myths about adolescents, and this novel does away with them in a - admittedly - drastic way.
Certainly the tone of the book changes after Simon’s first encounter with Lord of the Flies.Group DynamicsEventually the boys split into two groups: hunters who become ever more “savage” in appearance and behaviour, and the remainder who want to retain order, safety, common sense – and their lives.
I think one problem Lord of the Flies has is that the period is tricky: too far from the present to seem "relevant" (though I think it is), but not long enough ago to be properly historical.Compared with I Have No Mouth and I Must ScreamFor another dysfunctional group trying to survive a very different ordeal, see Harlan Ellison's horrific short story about an evil supercomputer, which I reviewed HERE.
508. Lord of the flies, William GoldingLord of the Flies is a 1954 novel by Nobel Prize–winning British author William Golding. The book focuses on a group of British boys stranded on an uninhabited island and their disastrous attempt to govern themselves.عنوانها: سالار مگس ها؛ خداوندگار مگسها؛ بعل زبوب؛ نویسنده: سر ویلیام گلدینگ؛ (بهجت، ابتکار، افراشته، آپادانا، ابر سفید، رهنما، امیرکبیر)؛ ادبیات انگلستانعنوان: سالار مگس ها ؛ نویسنده: سر ویلیام گلدینگ؛ مترجم: حمید رفیعی؛ تهران، بهجت، 1353، در 3
آزاد)؛ تهران، ابتکار، 1363، در 270 ص؛ عنوان: سالار مگس ها ؛ نویسنده: سر ویلیام گلدینگ؛ مترجم: رضا دیداری؛ تهران، افراشته، 1363؛ در 282 ص؛ عنوان: سالار مگس ها ؛ نویسنده: سر ویلیام گلدینگ؛ مترجم: سوسن اردکانی (شاهین)؛ تهران، آپادانا، 1363؛ در 336 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، ابر سفید، 1390، در 327 ص؛ شابک: 9786009254552؛عنوان: سالار مگسها ؛ نویسنده: سر ویلیام گلدینگ؛ مترجم: مژگان منصوری؛ تهران، پرگل، 1379؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، رهنما، 1382؛ در 443 ص؛ شابک: 9643670937؛ چاپ دیگر: 1385؛ چاپ بعدی 1388؛ شابک: 9789643670931؛عنوان: خداوندگار مگس ها ؛ نویسنده: سر ویلیام گلدینگ؛ مترجم: جواد پیمان؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، چاپ دوم 1395؛ در 287 ص؛ شابک: 9789640018743؛از جمله آثار برجسته ی کلاسیک جهان، که ویلیام گلدینگ در آن شور و هیجان را در یک قصه ی تمثیلی، با قدرت و صداقت توصیف کرده، داستان ماجرای شگفت آور گروهی پسر بچه است در مدرسه ای انگلیسی، که در طی جنگ هسته ای و خانمانسوز، عازم منطقه ای امن میشوند.
A British airplane, on fire, crashes on a deserted, isolated, South Sea's island, in the middle of an atomic war, set in the near future .
All the grown-ups are killed, and only children , 12 and younger survive, how are they to cope (basically an allegorical story of what is human nature , good or evil ?) .
He takes his group of choirboys followers and leaves, to form a new, fierce, warrior tribe on Castle Rock, painting their faces and becoming great hunters....Since Piggy's eye glasses are the only way the kids can start a fire, Jack raids Ralph's shelter and steals it, the poor, helpless boy, can't function without them, blind as a bat ( I know it's a misnomer, but it sounds great).
I was Piggy (well, in personality at least, though not in portliness).
I hated everyone who picked on him.
That depends on whether you think their true nature has revealed itself, or their humanity has been corrupted by circumstance and stress.
In a world where almost every human trait is now considered a product of both nature and nurture, would Golding have written his tale differently today?
No, I don't believe so.
He was quite ahead of his time to believe some of the boys, though certainly not the majority, still remained moral despite the situation.
Perhaps he was a 'Simon' and would quickly get trampled if our civilisation were to decline.But look Golding, my lad -- that bit where you allow the man in the parachute to get dumped, dead, on the island, scaring the boys out of their wits -- if that hadn't happened -- your choice plot element -- well, the three boys Jack, Roger and Ralph, would have established Absence of Beast.
People--even teenage boys--just aren't as savage as Golding seems to want us to believe, and nothing in this book persuades me otherwise.Perhaps if I'd gone to English boarding school I'd feel differently--but then that's the real irony of this book, that the brutality from which the British Empire was supposed to save so many people and cultures was in fact the Brits projecting their own savagery onto others.But the rest of us, no, we aren't monsters underneath.
A little messed up, maybe, a little more raw, but nowhere near the kind of brutes that Golding wants us to believe.
After a plane crashes, a group of English boys finds themselves stranded on an island and, with no adults to guide them, form a kind of society that quickly breaks down, resulting in madness and murder.• The symbols, among them: the conch (for order and civilization, I suppose, since if one holds it one can speak in front of a group); the glasses (or “specs”), which help create fire and, since they belong to the nearsighted, brainy yet mercilessly bullied Piggy, might also represent intelligence; the idea of monsters.
There’s a moment when “chief” Ralph is gradually losing his power, and Piggy suggests he blow the conch to form an assembly.
Tom Hanks would have loved to jump in if only he weren’t an adult.^^And party it was at the greater half of the book which mostly consisted of:1.
(Poor, Piggy) *sniffs*But the party suddenly turns into savagery (See this is why you can’t join in, Mr. Hanks) and eep!
(Kidding.^^)For a proper, more eloquent, far more meaningful review that will tackle the themes, the writing and other important elements of the novel that I shamelessly neglected, do read my beautiful friend’s,  (Ate) Sabah’s review.
Also, it’s her birthday today!
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Ate Sabah!
I hope you have a wonderful day with loads of love and surprises!

DAMN!!I think reading this book as an adult affects me more.
You come to realize that things and circumstances can change drastically with no rules or repercussions.I really loved Lord of the Flies and think everyone should read this one day.
It's not a long book but it will make an impression on you.It makes you think and dread what would happen if...“Maybe there is a beast… maybe it's only us.”The writing of William Golding was well done and detailed on the breakdown of humanity and sensibility.With no rules to govern, you can easily see how a group will follow the stronger and more manipulative leader.
I had to read it in secondary school when I was about 12 and I never remember disliking a book so much which was surprising as I was a voracious reader.I just remember having absolutely nothing in common with the characters - a group of English upper / middle class school boys whereas I was a Scottish working class girl.
I just could not relate to the story at all and just wished they would all kill each other as soon as possible so the book would finish.The fact that we had to read the book in class at the pace of some of the slower readers (agonisingly painfully slow readers) and then discuss it afterwards, which was like trying to get blood out of a stone, probably didn't help.Never, ever again.
My mum who mutes the TV when a swear word is coming up and who can't stand any type of violence recommended a book that involves children killing each other.
The divisions widen over time as some of the children begin to adopt savage-like behaviour resulting in tragedy.It is not a Christian book but there are a great number of spiritual analogies and lessons worthy of comment.
The book reminds us that children do not learn sin from their parents.
I would recommend the book for Christians for the spiritual lessons that can be learned but it is not particularly uplifting!
BOYS WILL BE BOYS THERE'S A PIG'S HEAD.
William Golding no pierde tiempo en explicar la caída del avión, ni como se salvan los niños y perecen todos los adultos sino que directamente nos muestra a unos niños tratando de sobrevivir en una isla desierta de la forma más visceral, tomando decisiones propias de los adultos y haciéndose hombres de golpe.
Aquellas personas hechas para hacerse cargo de la situación pero con formas totalmente antagónicas para pensar y actuar en los momentos más difíciles.De esta manera conoceremos a los tres personajes principales del libro: Ralph, Jack y Piggy.
Then why did it scare living crap out of me?Lord of the Flies is a story about a group of boys who get marooned on one island after their plane crashed.
Now, from the first page of this book, I had this uneasy feeling for some reason.
And the more I read, the more that feeling grew.
I've already heard that this book was not an easy book to read and that there were some pretty disturbing scenes.
I'm positive that we would get similar outcome if a group of adults got marooned on an island.
And that is why (unlike The Maze Runner) this book got it right.
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars to Lord of the Flies, a coming-of-age novel written in 1954 by William Golding, who was a Nobel Prize winner. Most people have either read this book during middle/high school (in America or Great Britain), or have heard of it because of its supposed cannibalism story line. But wait... it wasn't cannibalism -- huge exaggeration to set straight, right from the beginning. But let's back up... At a time of war, a group of pre-teen boys are in a plane that crashed onto
They learn to help each other and watch others die.I read the book once and tried a second several years ago, but what I realized is that the world today is a very different place.
I think it may be the kind of novel that is best read when you are a teenager, as it helps with understanding things are the same today as they were 75 years ago, in terms of growing up and learning how to work together.
I still believe it's a good book, and it should be read, but if it were written today, I don't think it would be as popular.
A group read with a bunch of Pantaloonless Buddies.A group of young boys are dumped on a small island in the middle of Atlantic. The reason for this is very sketchy and the tale starts right after this event. For a while it was all fun and games until it was not: primitive instincts took over and for kids it became kill-or-be-killed survival. This book was hailed by some critics as the best novels written in English. This is also an undisputed classic and a required reading in high school. It d
A group read with a bunch of Pantaloonless Buddies.A group of young boys are dumped on a small island in the middle of Atlantic.
This is also an undisputed classic and a required reading in high school.
Considering its average rating of 3.62 it did not work for some other people - even discounting the poor souls that were force fed with the classic in aforementioned high school.
The difference between a play and a book is that in the former you only show while in the latter you have to sometimes tell.
As any classic book this one delivered a message as well as was an allegory of the human society.
I've got the conch now, so listen up!In Lord of the Flies Golding deconstructed civilization, wiping it out and showing us our world in chaos.
In the place of civility, a brutal world is born in which might is right, the weak are stamped out, and the female voice all but silenced (Piggy's frequent references to his auntie).
Golding pounded away at that theme, so much so as to rankle some readers who criticize the book's heavy-handed use of cardboard cut-out stereotypes to force the author's point across.
Both are unessential, for the intended purpose is served...Golding held the conch and Lord of the Flies is what he had to say.
yup, i have now ticked box where it says this book is one of the must read classics and i think that's the highlight of my reading experience that i have with this story.there are many things that are hard to believe about this story, like why only teenagers got stranded on the island?
violence among these kids is not such a big thing as this is a common occurrence nowadays.
this book depicts how easily humans could turn violent, and their desire to rule fellow humans but i was also expecting another trait of human nature to come out and that was being stand united against oppression.
