https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69517.The_Girls_of_Slender_Means
“Long ago in 1945 all the nice people in England were poor, allowing for exceptions.”After a glorious first sentence like that, how could Mrs Spark fail to deliver her usual sparkling cocktail of absurd every-day business, chaotic lifestyles and abrupt drama?
Most girls are happily carefree and perfectly unengaged in the political developments of the time, even though the life-altering moments in history are mentioned in short sub-clauses every now and then: the capture of Ribbentrop, the dropping of the atomic bomb, Churchill’s speeches, Labour’s election success, the ruinous state of London.Those are merely descriptions serving as backdrop to the girls’ real issues.
One of the girls however goes back, not in solidarity nor to help one of her fellows, but to grab the one designer dress that all the girls of slender means lodging in the May of Teck Club have been sharing, if later she hangs herself Spark holds back from telling us...If one had a thoroughly Christian education one could perhaps read it and pull it apart like an alter painting, but I was spared such a thing and read it purely for Muriel's terrible wit.
Spark at her best; acerbic, bitingly funny, satirical, unsettling, great use of language, numerous interesting and well-crafted characters, layers of meaning and it captures a moment of social history to boot.
The club is“for the Pecuniary Convenience and Social Protection of Ladies of Slender Means below the age of Thirty Years, who are obliged to reside apart from their Families in order to follow an Occupation in London”It is written from a later perspective (1963) by one of the girls from the club, Jane Wright.
Spark introduces him to the reader in her own inimitable way;“We come now to Nicholas Farringdon in his thirty-third year.
As a snap-shot of the time that the story is set in, this books works wonderfully well.
While Spark's writing is impressive, I could not help but compare The Girls of Slender Means with the other two books of hers that I have read - The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie and A Far Cry From Kensington.
The Girls almost read like a sequel to Miss Jean Brodie but I think this is exactly where it didn't work for me - it was too similar not to make comparisons and I couldn't enjoy it as an independent story quite as much.
' Long ago in 1945 all the nice people in England were poor, allowing for exceptions'.As with every Spark novel, it is the exceptions which make all the difference.
Its not a novel jam-packed full with action but of the uncovering of character by one momentous event.
The novel begins with VE day and ends with VJ day but there is an action observed on the last page of the novel, small in its reporting, unnoticed by all but one character and Spark uses this to remnds us that peace, if it is to mean anything has to be more than just an absence of war.
This is quintessential Spark.
Though there's no teacher-figure (only a few impotent spinsters), the action is set in a young women's lodging house that feels like a boarding school a la The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Spark's snideness, sarcasm, black humor and wit are here, including observations on religion and sex, related in innuendos and also bluntly.
The climax is what turned a 3-star book for me into a 4; and I think with a reread, that could turn into a 5, especially if I were more familiar with the Hopkins poem that seems to be at the center of this novel.
All the nice people were poor; at least, that was a general axiom, the best of the rich being poor in spirit."The story centers around the May of Teck Club, a boarding house for single young women working in London, and the lives of the women living there as they try to rebuild their lives after World War II.
For the majority it's just a light, fluffy novel of girls dating and having petty fights and chasing various men, like Sex and the City if it were set in post-war London and all the girls were poor and not horrible.
This tiny feather-light novel is like a love-song to a very specific time, April to July 1945, and place, London, a girls' hostel, located just behind Kensington Gardens, such that you can see the Albert Memorial if you shove your head out of one of the third floor windows and crane your neck.
So there's all these girls, thrown around by the war, that's why they're in a hostel, working for some ministry or another probably, all poor, mostly middle-class, one of whom is - well, fast, and also there's this guy, a jackass would be anarchist-poet who hangs around, but not such a jackass, as he gets to shag Selina, and have Sunday lunches with the girls.
Also in that documentary, Ms Spark revealed that she would mostly get the title and then the book would more or less write itself.
I imagine that is a little disingenuous, as she would have been thinking things through for a while before she actually started the writing process, but it would be the title that gave her the idea and the forward motion."The Girls of Slender Means" - now I could imagine her delight in that phrase, how the word slender might spark (sorry, couldn't resist) a series of other associations.
You might call that acerbic, I'm thinking more along the lines of malicious.
Everything depends on the reader.It may serve a better review for those who have read the novel already.&&&&&&&&& THERE MAY BE SPOILERS &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&So I was struck by the theme Faith and Conversion.
This is very much made visible in the characters of Joanna Childe and Nicholas Farringdon.Let me state my reasons:Joanna Childe is introduced as a person who believes in "a desirable order of life." Later while narrating her biography, we learn that she had fallen in love with a person once 'which had come to nothing.' But that was her first and only love.
Only the girls with the slenderest of means can get through the window.
You seem to have an inexhaustible source." Every time I read Spark - this is my fourth of her books, on my way to all of them because she's one of my favorite writers - every time, I have to figure out what world she's assuming this time.
This is a world where not everyone fits through the window, and in the end it's not just about who gets to fuck that idiot poet.
It’s 1945 and the time between the two armistices of the war and in the Mary of Teck Club, a glorified hostel for girls of slender means in Kensington, a well-flagged tragedy is waiting to strike.
Sparks’ recognition of the heartlessness in humanity is tempered by the gentility of the finest girls.But who are these girls of slender means?
Read her.This novella is about a handful of girls residing at the May of Teck Club, a boarding-house "for the Pecuniary Convenience and Social Protection of Ladies of Slender Means below the age of Thirty Years, who are obliged to reside apart from their Families in order to follow an Occupation in London".
Spark’s books do not have deep character portrayal; I could do with more of that, but then it would not be Spark.********************In order of preference, the last two being equal:A Far Cry from Kensington 5 starsThe Prime of Miss Jean Brodie 3 starsThe Girls of Slender Means 3 starsMemento Mori 3 starsThe Bachelors 3 stars
از خودم شرمنده ام برای کتابی هزینه و وقت گذاشتم که صفحاتش پر بود از کلمات پیردختر و ترشیده، کاش انتشارات نگاه در چاپ چنین ترجمه هایی کمی دقت به خرج می داد.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
And I'm STILL not sure I agree with the popular interpretation of the ending.On the ending: (view spoiler)[popular wisdom (i.e. Google) claims that the conversion of Nicholas to evangelism comes from the moment Selina walks through the crowd of trapped girls in the upstairs bathroom, carrying the dress she's stolen.
After the death and the theft and the destruction of the building where the girls lived in their "unselfconscious attitudes of poverty", Nicholas accompanies Jane and Rudi to the celebrations of the end of the war.
Spark couldn't have been more blatant: the [Spoiler Alert] one girl that perishes in the housefire - the one who remains the most selflessly calm, recites scripture and measures the hips of herself and her thirteen trapped companions - was named Joanna Childe.
But, unlike J.C., she is more than slinky-slithery enough to climb in and out of the lavatory window twice: once to demonstrate (flaunt) ease of escape, and the second time to salvage the house's shared Schiaparelli dress.
When Nicholas Farringdon - the alpha male of this twisted tale and Redwood's part-time lover - sees Selina later the encounter leaves her disenchanted.
She couldn't stop screaming.
3 estrellasUna novela que me tuvo sin gran entusiasmo hasta los capítulos finales. Tiene un giro que me sorprendió para bien. El club May of Teck existe para proporcionar seguridad económica y amparo social a la señoritas de escasos medios, con una edad inferior a los treinta años, que se vean obligadas a residir lejos de sus familias por tener que desempeñar un trabajo en Londres.
3.5
Quite a playgirl [she has a hilarious scene towards the end when the building was on fire and about to collapse:];Felix/the Colonel - married to Gareth [not a May of Teck resident:] and having an affair with Selina;Jane - another girl at the May of Teck Club, works for a publisher, and has literary pretentions;Rudi Bittesch - a publisher, Jane's boss;Nicholas - a handsome cad [Hugh Grant would be perfect for the role, if in a movie:], thinks of himself as a good poet/writer but isn't really so.
Rationing is still a hard burden and they are all single but mostly looking for loveWhile keeping their chins up, they hold the general feeling that "all the nice people in England were poor, allowing for exceptions." Except none of them are all that nice and every one holds wounds of one sort or another, mostly emotional ones.Why did reading this short novel cheer me up?
Because we all harbor certain wounds and life is never certain, but it is entertaining to have a look at how others in another city and country, another century, deal with theirs.
Having enjoyed "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" immensely many years ago, I was delighted when this Spark novel/la was chosen for the December book group meeting.
Unfortunately, having finished reading it today, it left me cold, sometimes I was plain bored and at other times I didn't understand what was going on because of the switching back between 1945 and some time in the early 60s.
Admittedly, I have been reading about four other books alongside this one (most of the others much more engrossing), but how on earth did I miss the *murder* that other reviewers here have mentioned?
There was a murder in this book??
What is even HAPPENING here?
Was Muriel drunk when she wrote this?
Am I drunk?
I have no idea what's going on in this book.
Am I missing everything?
Am I missing everything?
This novel is so haphazard.
About halfway through it finally latches on to a mildly discernible plot, but it's almost nothing!
It's as if this little book was just a scratchpad of ideas that Muriel scribbled down for future use.
It's not exactly bad writing, it's just hectic and at certain points it's almost incomprehensible nonsense.
I suppose it's a style or genius or something but I have to admit, I just didn't get it.
Ugh, I love Muriel. She has a fantastic way of casually making serious young men look utterly ridiculous.
Un libro corto y sin argumento que se me hizo bastante largo. Mi primer acercamiento a Muriel Spark no ha sido muy bueno, espero elegir mejor la próxima vez.
Slender indeed...The May of Teck Club in London’s Kensington is a place for “for the Pecuniary Convenience and Social Protection of Ladies of Slender Means below the age of Thirty Years, who are obliged to reside apart from their Families in order to follow an Occupation in London.” The book tells of the lives of the crop of “girls” in residence just as the war in Europe had ended in the summer of 1945.
The girls are rather proud of the bomb that narrowly missed the club – they like to point out the damage to visitors – and there’s a rumour that another bomb is buried somewhere in the garden, unexploded.This is rather an odd little book and I’m not at all sure if it has some deep and profound meaning that was lost on me.
I recently read this author's "Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" and I liked it so much (4-star rating) I was eager to read more by Muriel Spark. To me, this short book, more novella than novel, feels like a snapshot of a certain time and of a certain group of people. Granted, it's a good snapshot, a very clear and distinct one, but it's like being at a photography exhibit: I'm ready to move on to the next photograph, and when I leave the exhibit, "The Girls of Slender Means" will have left a rather small impression.
I am slightly disappointed with the girls of slender means….The scene for the novel is set brilliantly by the following: ”Long ago in 1945 all the nice people in England were poor, allowing for exceptions” and who wouldn’t be charmed by that?
I enjoyed the reading voice, I enjoyed the language and writing and I feel the story had a certain charm, and what it is that I did not enjoy, I really don’t know, but I just failed to engage.
Muriel Spark, or her spirit, and I are about to become very good friends.
I've just finished "The Girls of Slender Means", having read it at leisure, but with great care and tremendous pleasure.
Although slender in size, this small book--in comparison to today's overly-wrought and often boringly-padded fiction-- is rich in sardonic observation, fulsome in empathy, and beautifully balanced between the quotidian and the monumental.
I would rave more, but I would be keeping myself from my next literary sweetmeat: Sparks's "The Ballad of Peckham Rye", which is sending alluring signals from my beside table.Read this.
It will make you belief in fiction again.
London, in 1945, the summer after the end of the war.
Spark focuses on a group of young women that are trying to make the best of it, both in everyday's life (everything is rationed) and in the battle for a man.
Mankind, in this case the "world of women" is not attractive.
The story also contains a clear Graham Greene touch: just as in "The End of the Affair" there's a collapse of a building by a war bomb, a black and white moral picture, and an anarchist poet who converts to Catholicism).
