https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10964693-the-marriage-plot
Pretentious.  I try to stay away from this word reviewing books, because too many of my favorites literary novels have been called that and it hurt. But The Marriage Plot is pretentious. And also pompous, elitist, privileged and self-important.I just can't quite believe that the author who managed to make stories of 5 suicidal girls and a Greek hermaphrodite so compelling, could come up with something like The Marriage Plot and think it a worthy tale to tell. A rich, freshly graduated from Brow
But The Marriage Plot is pretentious.
And also pompous, elitist, privileged and self-important.I just can't quite believe that the author who managed to make stories of 5 suicidal girls and a Greek hermaphrodite so compelling, could come up with something like The Marriage Plot and think it a worthy tale to tell.
A rich, freshly graduated from Brown, English major girl waffling about reading Austen and trying to get laid/fall in love/get married?
No amount of references to English lit, semiotics and philosophy can elevate this story from its triteness.I mean, truly, who can relate to this novel about rich people's mundane dilemmas?
Someone on goodreads has compared The Marriage Plot to Eat, Pray, Love.
We stumble through it, thinking we are somehow in control, and it's what happens nevertheless while we are furiously busy making other plans, or simply fretting about making up our minds.This is a literary novel, in the best sense, and I was surprised to read some critics cramming it into the diminutive genre "campus novel." That would be like classifying Pride and Prejudice as a rom com, which is not as irrelevant as it sounds.
Eugenides wants to know whether the marriage plot is dead as a meaningful literary form, now that marriage seems hardly worthy as the ultimate goal of youthful aspirations.Then there's the theme of semiotics.
It's unfortunate and the book definitely suffers because of it.
Unfortunately he's given only one section of the book.The third protagonist, Mitchell, is an intellectual religious studies major from Detroit, so there's a bit of Middlesex-like feel to certain parts of his character, as he also has a Greek background.
It doesn't help that he seems to be plagued with the smarmy blandness that Madeleine suffers from.
There's also a lot of references to books and authors, like Barthes and Derrida.
Overall, I can't help but feel this is something only an English major could love.
While there are passages that are beautiful in only the way Eugenides can write, they act more like flashes of brilliance in an otherwise dull and lazy novel.The first part of the book shoves Semiotics into your brain and reads like the most terrible and awkwardly pretentious college courses that no one should ever have to suffer.
And throughout it all, I kept feeling like this book was only for English majors (and maybe Philosophy majors), and had an agenda that did not involve telling a good story.
We’re told in the beginning she’s a romantic and loves books, and while we see her bookshelf and the authors she takes comfort in, that’s the end of her development as a character.
I loved The Virgin Suicides for its style, imagery and voice.
I loved Middlesex for its 'epic' storytelling, its characters and a lyrical flight of fancy near the end that I think I'll never forget.
I was glad I did because I ended up enjoying it while reading it for the most part.
The intensity in Leonard's voice was, at times, almost hard to read; but I think it was the best part of the book, though perhaps not as essential to its theme.I was reminded of Bronte's The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, though the parallels are not exact, of course.
What is the marriage plot and why does it have such a tiny relevance in today's modern society?
Read “The Marriage Plot” and find out.Not every novel can be “Middlesex,” that most perfect, most ambitious of ALL modern reads (the other two being "The Feast of the Goat" by Vargas Llosa & "The Human Stain" by Roth).
But reading Eugenides involves becoming hyper-aware of just how much pretentiousness exists in all other modern novels.
Eugenides is the most unpretentious of the modern masters: he writes like a river that flows evenly, that contains only the purest of sentences--he's stylistically uncomplicated.
My book club selected this a few years ago, given they had all previously read Middlesex and The Virgin Suicides before I joined.
I hadn't read either book, but I did watch the movie "The Virgin Suicides" and I drove through a town called Middlesex in NJ, whenever I would go back and forth to college in Pennsylvania.
but I dove in and read "The Marriage Plot."What a fun title...
And there are lots of lessons and thoughts you'll get from reading this one.
I still want to read Middlesex.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I’d loved the author’s tour de force  Middlesex and had recently worked through his anthology of short stories,  Fresh Complaint, where I came across a tale that really interested me – well, in truth, it spooked me a little too. The story, written in 1996, is called  Air Mail  and it concerns a young man called Mitchell who is suffering badly from a bout of diarrhoea whilst temporarily staying at a remote beach in Thailand. The ending of the story is ambiguous – did he just die? I just didn’t kn
It’s a roller coaster ride, both for the characters in the book and, I found, for me as I became ever more engaged in the lives of this group.We follow their development as they leave Brown and start to experience life beyond its confines: Madeleine accompanies Leonard to Cape Cod, where he’s accepted a biology fellowship, and Mitchell sets off in the general direction of India, with the aim of working in Mother Teresa’s Home for the Dying.
There’s no doubt a significant autobiographical element to this book too, given the similarities to the author’s own family background (Greek-American, like Mitchell) and his studies at Brown, also in the early 1980’s.

I am trying to decide if I really liked this book so much because I really liked it so much, or if I really liked it because it made me feel smart without really having to do anything. I fear it is the latter, but check back with me later on that. That said, the story is about the relationship between Mitchell who loves Madeleine who loves Leonard. I never figured out who Leonard loves. It's basically an intellectualized, sort of depressing rom-com, if that even makes any sense.
Kafka said, “A book must be the axe for the frozen sea within us.” Stories that bore holes, blasting through the ice and earth rather than piling more on top of a parched, idle field, has the capacity to alter the reader, produce a chemical reaction and transgress the space that has already been traversed.Eugenides’ revolutionary novel THE VIRGIN SUICIDES blew the dust off the languid spines of literature shelves and, although the context wasn’t new (suburbia, Baby Boom generation), his Greek chorus of narrators and laconic treatment of shocking and tragic events allowed the reader a lot of space to interpret and experience the inscrutability of the feminine mystique.
I only finished a quarter of this book before I had to return it to the library (express check-out). I think it should have been called The Marriage Plop. Granted, I'm no literary genius, just some schmuck with a science degree, so I don't get all the references, but beyond that I found each character hideously irritating and didn't really care how the story progressed or ended. The book club consensus was as follows: Some of us liked it, most of us didn't, but EVERYONE was disappointed.
It's hard to follow Middlesex. Practically anything that came from Jeffrey Eugenides' pen or computer or whatever was going to pale in comparison. And indeed, this isn't as good as Middlesex. But don't mistake that for not being good. The Marriage Plot may not reach those lofty heights, but it's still a solid read.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
For anyone who has attended college, this will make you think of those days; the exams, lectures, life on campus, study, relationships, parties etc.
While I loved this novel, I found writing a review is tough because it's a story of many parts; coming of age, a love triangle, college life, drama, 'privileged/underprivileged students', manic depression, travel, religion.
Madeleine is waiting for acceptance into Yale etc, Leonard for a fellowship and Mitchell has work with a professor in India lined up.
Madeleine is writing her senior thesis on the marriage plot Victorian novels of Austen/Eliot/James, she is financially privileged, socially comfortable; her life hasn't encounted many problems so far.
Having been a big fan of Jeffrey Eugenides' Middlesex, it's needless to say that his latest, The Marriage Plot, immediately went on my virtual to-read-list.
But despite making many a year-end best-of list and literary award-nominated, it almost as quickly tumbled down my list as heard very mixed things about it (including the inevitable "not as good" as Middlesex).
Despite it being only February, it will no doubt be one of my favorite reads of 2012.The novel gets its name from a Victorian novel literary device: which one of two suitors will the lady end up with?
At its very simplistic core, The Marriage Plot is the journey of a love triangle...
To compare this to Middlesex is a mistake-akin to comparing grand opera to an intimate chamber piece. This book succeeds because it takes the structure and theme of a nineteenth century novel and turns them upside down. The love triangle which drives the plot reminds me of the Freudian view of self.   At its core is Madeleine(ego), who has spent her time consuming stories about love without absorbing their lessons about life. She falls hard for Leonard (id) and enters into a permanent relations
To compare this to Middlesex is a mistake-akin to comparing grand opera to an intimate chamber piece.
This book succeeds because it takes the structure and theme of a nineteenth century novel and turns them upside down.
The love triangle which drives the plot reminds me of the Freudian view of self.
At its core is Madeleine(ego), who has spent her time consuming stories about love without absorbing their lessons about life.
Mitchell (super ego) thinks that only he understands-and deserves-Maddy even though he has never attained the status of boyfriend to her.
It is a funny-and sad-comedy of manners for the twenty-first century.
(view spoiler)[  (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This was the first book that I read in my first house I bought late last year.
I loved the Fresh Air interview where he spoke about this book, as well.
I was VERY excited to read it once it was finally in my hands.This book was a major letdown, truth be told.
An audience member told him that she didn't love the protagonist, either, and asked if he did that on purpose.
I have faced the sorts of situations Madeleine goes up against and I still didn't sympathize with her.
Super sad face!I did sort of love the ending, though.
The heroine in this book, Madeline, is an English major (“English was what people who didn’t know what to major in majored in.”) who is steeped in these books and has to choose between Leonard, the brooding, brilliant manic depressive, and Mitchell, the earnest, spiritually inclined sensitive guy.
BookFiendUSA: So ---?SandyBanks1971: Eugenides does use the marriage plot, but the ending is a sort of a deconstruction of its traditional form.
Early on, we are told that she loves Austen and James, but unlike Mitchell and Leonard, whose lives are transformed by the books that they read, there seems to be hardly any connection between her and those books.
I am enjoying the marriage plot.
Madeleine's love life is often hilarious, sometimes sad.
Here is an excerpt:"Reading a novel after reading semiotic theory was like jogging empty-handed after jogging with hand weights.
What exquisite guilt she felt, wickedly enjoying narrative!
Madeleine felt safe with a nineteenth century novel.
There were going to be people in it.
Something was going to happen to them in a place resembling the world.
One is rather like Heathcliff, the other is Mitchell the better choice.
Madeleine has to make this discovery herself.
I enjoyed Mitchell's visits to Paris and India in search of himself.
I'm afraid that I don't know enough about the old marriage plot novels (Austen, Elliot, James, etc.) that this one references to really "get" everything Eugenides is trying to do here.
There were other things I found a little disappointing that may also be explained away, such as how the semiotic/deconstructionist thread of the first act is dropped for the remainder of the book, though the entire work itself clearly intends to fit that category.
Maybe that doesn't sound like a 5 star review, but I did find it extremely well crafted and written, and the problems I have with it are more those that raise questions than just this-or-that was done poorly.
Η μελαγχολία της αντίστασης και της παράδοσης σε μια ιστορία ενηλικίωσης οπου νιώθεις να κοιτάς μεσα απο την κλειδαρότρυπα σε αυτό που θα μπορούσε να είναι ή ειναι η ζωή σου. Και για αυτό δεν μπορείς να σταματήσεις να διαβάζεις γοητευμένος απο την αφήγηση και τον πλούτο ( συναισθηματικό και γνωστικό) που σου προσφερει απλόχερα ο Ευγενίδης. Γεμάτος κατανόηση και αγάπη για τους ηρωες του. Σαν τον Σάλιντζερ.
In just the few pages I've read, I can tell this is a book to savior---sip the juices of Jeffrey's beautiful writing slowly.
Madeleine Hanna is the main protagonist...She is in love with Leonard...Mitchell is in love with her...Back to Semiotics class 211 ..."English is what people major in College--who don't know what else to major in".
(so...that was my problem at U.C. Berkeley in the 70's---I believed that line too much even back in 1970)...instead of following my heart!I was a Kinesiology major ---but I was in LOVE with my English classes at Cal. LOVED IT!!!!!!!!!!
Not exactly the same because in having this book, Jeffrey Eugenides creates his own kind of heroine and tries to put it side-by-side these women of classic literature.3.
Literature students will be able to enjoy Eugenides' use of semiotics (study of signs including symbols, metaphors, analogies) in communication.
Virgin was published 1993, Middlesex in 2002 and this book, The Marriage Plot in 2011.
Having said this, I am sure his fans (and that includes me) will not mind waiting for another 9 years for his 4th book.
He puts enough literary history/theory in here to fell a horse, and with this, I think he's saying, "Just want to make you aware that I KNOW [that this is unoriginal]." He titled this book The Marriage Plot in reference to the well known plot structure in which a beautiful young woman must choose between two suitors.
Perhaps it is because I am not a female and cannot relate, but the story seems very stale and the internal narratives somewhat hackneyed.
I can't knock it for intelligence.
I'd like to hear others' opinions when they read this one.
It is books like this one that make me weep for humanity.
What went wrong Eugenides?
I do not think I have ever read a more pretentious book in all of my life.
It is filled with pretensions people that do nothing but be pretentious, and this is coming from a self-proclaimed pretentious person that loves pretentious books, I am offended.
I don't hate the guy, I loved Middlesex, and liked The Virgin suicides, but this book drove me into the schism.
It did have some good moments, but they were few and there were long separations in between.
Though I have been a bookseller for more years than I'm willing to confess, I have somehow never read Jeffrey Eugenides, despite his Pulitzer Prize and the fact that The Virgin Suicides is the favorite novel of one of my favorite sales reps (shout-out to Michael Kindness!).
It's the story of Madeleine, Mitchell, and Leonard in the early 1980s, following them in their senior year at Brown and then into the "real world" as they fumble and stumble their way outside the gates of the rarefied and privileged atmosphere of the Ivy League campus they leave behind.
A discussion of this book with my wife leads me to believe that I am the only person in the world who didn't know - 'plot' spoiler - that one of the three main characters is a manic-depressive headkerchief wearing philosopher/scientist who chews chewing tobacco and is both found irresistible by women and also looks like sasquatch, i.e., one of the three major characters is David Foster Wallace.
In the first chapter (another virtue of the Victorians that's missing: reasonable length chapters), Madeline describes how much she likes Jonathan Culler's 'On Deconstruction,' particularly compared to Derrida.
The first part of this novel examines (in a manner both accurate and funny) the big fuss over deconstruction back in the day of 80's academia.
However, this is not a cold novel of ideas; au contraire, JE creates a moving love triangle formed by three smart, lively 20-somethings as they navigate the post-college recession and discover the "real world" with its subsequent heartbreaks, contingencies, and surprises.
Now THAT'S saying something for a novel whose driving conceit is deconstruction.
I loved how JE wrote a novel of ideas and yet imbued it with such heart.
Brilliant, witty, and moving, all in one.
Ugh. This novel is asinine. It follows a group of pretentious people going around and being pretentious while talking about pretentious things and generally trying to get a reaction from my gag reflex. I mean at one point a character just takes "Finnegans Wake" out of their pocket, I mean seriously. I feel like the main point of this novel is just Eugenides shouting, "look how many books I've read!". It's rubbish of the highest degree. It also manages to be worse than Eugenides' other waste of paper, The Virgin Suicides. Don't read this novel, it's vomit inducing. Truly terrible.
I am about 75 pages into this book and so far, I am not enjoying it.It's about a college student in the U.S. who is writing a thesis about the way marriage plots are used in literature, mostly classics of which I haven't heard of too many of them.
The main plot is about the student, Madeleine, and her "relationships" with her parents and these 2 love interests, Mitchell and Leonard.I'm annoyed by the characters so far.
It's almost as if they are trying too hard to be different, but I guess a book written about someone who is your typical college student wouldn't be that interesting?
