https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40961365-heaven-and-hell
In the final installment of the North and South series, Jakes examines life in the United States after the Civil War. Using his strong collection of characters and their various situations, Jakes shows that the end of the War was not the end to all issues.
Any reader who wants a multi-dimensional view of the times, complete with great character development, is sure to be impressed by reading the North and South series.Jakes has done a fabulous job in Heaven and Hell to illustrate that the end of the War was not the end of all issues between Americans.
Wanted to like this book, but I hate when characters I've grown attached to become The Woobie, endlessly beaten down for dramatic effect.
And I absolutely hate what he did to Cooper, one of my favorite characters from the first two books.
Mont Royal is saved in the end by Virgilia (of all people) but I don't buy that someone as supposedly clever as Ashton could have been that easily defeated.
Nice historical background on the Indian wars in the West, and the Reconstruction period in the South.I'm giving it three stars for the mostly happy ending and because the author didn't kill EVERYONE I liked.
This final book in the North and South trilogy was hard for me to finish.
It started off well enough, but then became the story of Charles and the Indian Wars, with the remaining characters only occasionally making appearances or being heard from.
After about 300 pages I actually looked ahead to the end of the book to decide if I even wanted to finish it.
I just would have liked to have seen more of the story of the two families and characters that I came to know so well reading the first 2 books.
It was a lot more action based and, although the political stuff was still evident, our characters were less involved and so there wasn't reams of chapters focused on that.This book centred more on Charles and his fight not only to recover from his version of the war, but also face new challenges in the West.
Cooper, on the other hand, seems to have completely changed from the last two books and strangely becomes one of the villains of the book.In all, I have really enjoyed the time spent in Jakes' America ...
In a way, some of those hatreds are still dividing America ...
I had to stay emotionally disconnected because Jakes was dispassionate about killing off characters--no one was exempt, and so on one level you had to just say, "Really?
And really, Brett and Scipio didn't even get a line after striking up a friendship during the war and then meeting again at the reunion ten years later?) All that to say, this series was well written, with engaging characters, and it made me want to finish til the end.
It did not romanticize the civil War era, but it did bring it to life, the good bad and the ugly.
The mini series.Description: The last days of the Civil War bring no peace for the Main and Hazard families. As the Mains’ South smolders in the ruins of defeat, the Hazards’ North pushes blindly for relentless industrial progress. Both the nation and the families’ long-standing bond hover on the brink of destruction. 13 - Heaven and Hell - (summer 1865 - autumn 1865)14 - Heaven and Hell - (autumn 1865 - spring 1866)15 - Heaven and Hell - (spring 1866 - summer 1866)
For me this final installment of the North and South trilogy was more deserving of 3.5 stars but I could t being myself to rate it only 3 stars. Some portions were extremely drawn out while others weren't given enough page time. I hate the fact that Brett and her husband were not given any time in the meat of the book, only at the beginning and the end.
I enjoyed reading Jakes' works at the time I originally read them, but I would not re-read them at this point.
If you have already read the 1st 2 in this series now is the time to finish it.Very good.
This last book in the trilogy seemed to focus largely on Charles and on Madeline.
I would have loved more attention to Billy's story, perhaps, or adding more to the character lines of Andy and Jane (from their perspectives).
That said, he could have perhaps added a line about Billy working with the railroads as another dimension.) I loved the first two more than this third book, partly because there was a wide variety of political and personal challenges in the first two books, and this last book seemed to focus mostly on one character's internal tensions rather than actual tensions with others.
While cheesy at first, it starts to pick up speed with the deaths of several key characters and the return of some villians we assumed dead.
The confusion of people who realize they are biracial is a serious issue in this book.Cons: I really don't like the cop-out of killing off a main character within the first 15 minutes of the story, without a re-introduction or so much as a goodbye.
Something that doesn't have to do with the book: ridiculous casting changes, unless there were deaths or scheduling problems I don't know about just yet.
Most people like Heaven and Hell least of all, including me.
The is the last book in the lives of the Hazard and Main families.At the end of Love and War, Orry lost his life but not before getting rid of his and Geroge's enemy, Elkanah Bent (or did he?).The war is over, Lincoln has been assassinated and Johnson is in the White House.
But in the end, the families triumph.
You will be surprised at the end what all that happens.John Jakes does his homework and you find a lot of the political turmoil in this book as the whites of the south still won't accept the freedom of the Negro.
The plot seemed to focus mostly on Charles Main and Madeline Main, as they each confront their own demons and troubles.
Charles is forced to deal with his mental suffering from the war, and trying to find a place for himself in the world.
He deals with alcoholism, fighting Native Americans, prejudice against his Southern background, and his own demons.
At the same time, Madeline is forced to deal with more and more hostility from her brother-in-law, who is becoming more radicalized against African Americans, Northerners, and anyone trying to "destroy" the South Carolina society.
I am finally finished with this trilogy.
Seems like I've been reading it for years.
This book required my utmost diligence to finish.
Loose ends tied up to my satisfaction.
Altogether I have appreciated the amount of research in writing this saga of the Civil War from both north and south perspectives.
Sadly, I find that over a hundred years later our government is still in the same corrupt and narrow-minded, divided place it was in 1865-75.
Not to mention the bigotry and hatred still alive from the southerners determined to force the US back to pre-Civil War days.
The End!
So I am still to this day a great admirer of the mini series starring Patrick Swayze and James Read from the mid 1980’s.
Was amazed how closely the 1st movie resembled the book.
Obviously there were differences in the next 2 books.
Some I liked and some I didn’t, I think most surprising was George’s lack of involvement in book 3 yet equally stunning yet interesting was Virgilia’s change of character.
Not sure why they gave her the ending in the 2nd movie that hey did but I loved it both ways nonetheless.
Found this to be the weakest of the trilogy. It covers dramatic events following the war and the main characters trying to find their way amid chaos and horrors just as bad as before the war. All in all, the trilogy was a good read in that it tried to show the Civil War from different angles. I did not like the way the author made most of the truly bad people women and villains repeatedly crossing paths with their victims all across the country. The ending was weak and the trilogy just seemed to fizzle out.
North and SouthThis trilogy of the North and South books are very interesting reading, it can give the reader an insite into what went on between the north and south back during the civil war years. I wonder if tho vs had been handled differently would our live as we know it be different had there had bee no civil war, and things had been settled peacefully. Just wondering. I enjoy history about our flu try so I go th wikipedia quite frequently to study differs t periods of our wonderful country.
John Jakes is a brilliant writer, and he rarely does a fantastic job of bringing a fascinating era in American history to life. His characters are real, his stories tug at the heart, and he awakens something stirring deep in th recesses of my soul when I read his work. I am so glad I finally decided to buy and read his work. You will be, too.
The epic finale to the North and South trilogy. John Jakes doesn't disappoint. A strong cast of characters blended flawlessly with a running historical narrative. I thoroughly enjoyed the narrative and the way the author blends actual historical events into his story. My advice: start at the beginning and read all three novels.
4.5 stars I loved the novel and it was a very satisfying conclusion to a fabulous trilogy. I do wish there would have been more of billy and Brett. I loved the character growth of Virgilia and the introduction of Marie-Louise’s point of view. Charles plays a major role in this book, but his storyline is amazing.
This novel was the last of the North South Trilogy. It covers the period from the end of the Civil War through the end of reconstruction. The stories of the two families is brought to a close and the personal issues resolved. One facinating story within the novel was the formation of the 10th Calvary. The three novels taken as a whole are a masterpiece. Well worth reading.
The final book in the north and south trilogy, I've read the other two over the past year. i decided, having ignored for year my penguin book of American history, to try learning more on the subject through a novel. I did that through these, and also got to know the Mains and the Hazards and enjoy a trilogy of interesting books that have made me want to read more.
This series has long been on my reading bucket list and I have enjoyed it. Current politics have made this more than an interesting read and have left me much to consider. I liked this third book the least in the series but perhaps that is more because it has brought the books to a close.
Not quite as good as the first two. It seems like plot didn't start moving forward until nearly halfway through. Too much time spent on reviewing what had happened in the first two books. But I did really enjoy this trilogy. Read all three in hardback and they were big heavy books to lug around!
Entertaining.
Incredible detail. Well written if somewhat dated style. Charles is by far the best character. The book is so much better than the mini series.
Great Book
Whew, this was a long series, but worth reading. I "enjoyed" the Native American narrative, the counterpoint to the treatment of African Americans in the post-Civil War era.
Excellent book.
Sad but great look at both sides of the story of the Civil War
