https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146123.Tintin_and_the_Lake_of_Sharks
Tintin et le lac aux requins = Tintin and the Lake of Sharks (The Adventures of Tintin), Michel Regnier, HergéTintin and the Lake of Sharks is a 1972 animated film based on The Adventures of Tintin, directed by Raymond Leblanc.
It was not written by Hergé (who merely supervised), but by the Belgian comics creator Greg (Michel Regnier), a friend of Hergé.
در سال 1946 میلادی «هرژه» مجله «تن‌ تن» را نیز راه انداخت.
«آخرین ماجرای تن‌ تن» در سال 1976 میلادی چاپ شد.
Originally known as Tintin et le Lac aux Requins, based on the Tintin animated film, directed by Raymond LeBlanc (1972).The world's biggest pearl is stolen from the Museum of Oceanography.Meanwhile Tintin and Captain Haddock arrive at Klow airport in Syldavia , on a visit to see Professor Calculus at Villa Sprog on the mysterious Lake Pollishoff.Tintin makes friends with two Syldavian children , Niko and Nushka who rescue Tintin and the Captain from a plane crash.
3.5 stars - not my favorite Tintin, but still a good story. This is not an original by Herge, but I still enjoyed it.
The book was fun, lots of danger and explosions. In this book Tintin successfully lands a plane that was certain to crash, finds some treasure, locates the bad guys, has a few fights (wins some, loses some), gets in a situation where a bomb is gonna go off but he is trapped, he escapes of course and then nearly drowns before a finally boat chase.All that action is fun but it has been crammed into only 44 pages and it feels rushed at times. Shame really, might have been better if more care was taken with building on the story.
Not as enticing as some of the other adventures - I am not sure if this was directly done for the movies, which might explain small differences from Hergé's original books... Still, very funny and readable!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 21 January 2015.
2.5*
Was good, but not great. General feel of characters captured, but not quite the same as if Herge himself had done it I feel. Book also a bit shorter than the normal ones, so felt a bit rushed - and quite a bit captured in brief headings to explain what was going on, rather than the panels showing it. I know that this will be due to it being based off the film, and I will try and watch the film at some point, but after recently reading other Tintin comic books, just not at the same level.
لا بأس جيدة وكانت ملونة جميعها
As with the remainder of the Tintin stories, I read them years ago but am now just adding them to Goodreads.
This one wasn't written by Hergé and is the book based on the film of the same name.
It differs a little from the film, but in the main, this is a decent addition to the Tintin canon - at least I think so.
The basic nature of the characters is still there, and it's not that much of a departure from what Hergé himself may have written.
The underlying plot doesn't hold up to as much scrutiny however, but it's all good fun.
Clearly, we are missing Hergé a great lot here! In every page of the book, I missed him. And I dunno how Tintin came to be tied in the pipe, when he was walking with Rastapopulous, I really don't! Nonetheless, despite missing Hergé, this is a decent make.
its good
Eh. It just looks wrong, so you don't want to read it. Perhaps the only Tintin I can't describe the plot of.
Don't know what happened to this book. It lacks the wonders of Tintin. I remember when I read it, I was about 18, and tried so hard to like it, but instead left panicked.
Not Hergé most inspiring effort, it still captivated my little four-year-old. The adventure in some fictional Balkan country seemed untethered, but it’s a comic book with lots of fun, so I should get over it.
استمتعتُ بها.. مسكين كابتن هادوك لا مفر له من بيانكا هاهاهاها
Tintin escaped thousands and I think a few tens of pirate sharks.
(They weren't real sharks, just evil people.) The submarine that the sharks were in got stranded on a rock and Tintin and the Captain and Snowy all together caught them and made them prisoners.
Kids helped them too, and guess what?
First the sharks made Tintin and the kids prisoners, then they had them prisoners!
When the water had thrown the giant ball onto the little switch a bomb exploded and guess what?
The Captain thought Tintin and the kids were dead, but they had gotten life-jackets on just in time.
En general, la historia es bastante sencilla, siguiendo la trama habitual de las historietas de Tintín: por casualidad (y por su natural e inagotable curiosidad) Tintín descubre un peligroso complot, lo investiga, se enfrenta a situaciones peligrosas en las que incluso arriesga la vida y, finalmente, logra desbaratar los planes del malvado con la ayuda del capitán, los torpes pero imprescindibles agentes Dupond y Dupont (lo siento, pero para mí nunca serán Hernández y Fernández), Milú y los amigos que hacen por el camino (en este caso, los pequeños Niko y Nouchka).Reseña completa en: www.nusanus.es

This is not an official Tintin book, but rather a recap of an animated film from 1972. Hergé was involved in the film as a "supervisor" but did not directly write or draw the movie or book. This is shorter than other Tintin works and some of the scenes don't flow together as well as they could (since all the artwork is just animation captures). It stays reasonably true to the Tintin universe and many favorite characters make an appearance. Although not something for a newer Tintin reader, this is a fun book for fans and collectors.
This was made for the 1972 animated film and is not actually by Hergé himself which really shows. While the characters and dialogue are pretty much spot on this just doesn't feel quite right. The story is absolutely ludicrous and nonsensical and feels very rushed and it lacks the charm of the other TinTin classics.
An enjoyable grab bag last lap for Tin Tin, which is marred because the story is penned as an adaptation of a film and isn't drawn by Herge. The exposition annoyed me and showed that the person creating this comic wasn't as experienced as Herge with the medium. Herge would have known how to show not tell many of the exposition boxes.
I only gave four stars to this story because the illustrations were not actually by Herge. The story itself was very interesting and full of intrigue and adventure another titian book I can tick of my list,
ok this was the first comic book i ever red and it was okay i felt it was kinda lame and i didnt really like the name i thought they were so old and wierd and classic i dun know but the story is okay .so generally the book was good.
yet another fun book for tintin fans. introduction of nushka and niku is lovely part in this comic book. captain haddock's dialogues are funny as usual. I liked the part where he wonders why the thompsons were doing skateboarding when they were actually struck in the boat. :)
This is a ''Not Bad'' book but I didn't like it much because it's 41 or 42 pages,not like the others cause they have 63 or 62 pages and it did not feel like real Tintin books but no prob with this bøøk
this tintin adventure was not special since it was actually developed from the cartoon series version, and not the other *traditionally* way around. and this time the villain was again tintin's nemesis (perhaps), the one and only evil-genius rastapopoulus (did i spell his name correctly?).
it was funny
pantesan kaya deja vu, ternyata liat film nya dulu baru baca komiknya. tetep bagiku, komik yang asli yang paling kereeennn >,< kenangannya ngga tergantikan apapun
Awesome Comics, full with adventure-comedy. Really like this series.
Fun to see another Tintin after so long but the illustrations were definitely not Hergé's, though they were replicated fairly well. Story was ok.
