https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1199161.The_Concubine
I really enjoyed this book.
I very much liked the two major characters and SO wanted them to be happy!
For me, this book is a glimpse into a culture that is not familiar and I enjoyed that as well.
Speaking of a greedy person, a character says this: "Like the hunter who was never satisfied with antelopes, he might be obliged to carry an elephant home one day and collapse under the weight." I am accustomed to think of greed as something that hurts others more than it hurts the greedy person, but, yes, it makes sense that greed hurts its practitioner, too.
One of my favourite books. This book is a masterpiece. Though I read it too long ago to write a proper review, I can remember enjoying this tragic tale of a woman who's married in the spiritual realm, thus any man who marries her is doomed to ruin from the vengeance of her spiritual husband.Highly recommended.
I really enjoyed this.
The plot meanders and so does the point of view.
But that's the beauty of it.
It's a nice slice-of-precolonial-Igbo-life story.
Puh-lease), yet loving (you can tell that the author is proud of his culture, bumps, scars and all).
And it's a really interesting read when you consider the interplay of cultural and traditional beliefs and destiny and free will and deities.
Was Iheoma so lovely because she quietly suffered?
Why is this novel called The Concubine when there are no concubines?
Lol. Still, it's a great classic Nigerian novel.
A book that took my attention all the way to the end. It was amazing. It introduced me to loving African literature. I loooooooved it :)
"Would you agree to be a concubine instead of someone's wife?"That's the question that if turned aro
I read this fascinating novel for the Africa Reading Challenge hosted by Kinna Reads: Elechi Amadi is a notable Nigerian author who writes in English.
The Concubine (1966) is one of his five novels, the others being The Great Ponds, The Slave, Isiburu and Estrangement.According to Wikpedia, ‘Amadi’s novels are generally about African village life, customs, beliefs and religious practices, as they were before contact with the Western world’ and this is certainly true of The Concubine.
There is no mention of any western influences or events, and the novel has a timeless quality.
The rhythms of village life seem eternal, and the routines immutable.
This was my first adult novel, i read it at age 8 and it was the text for my senior secondary school exams.
i am still as enthralled as i was by the ill-fated love between Ihuhoma and Ekwueme.
i read the book so many times that it fell apart.
For me, it was a book set in the traditional village community untouched by colonization and its adverse effects.
i recall with nostalgia the little boy whose favorite past time was to hunt lizards.
i do not have a copy now but i hope to get one soon as it is one of my favorite African writers' series book.
RIPhttp://www.complete-review.com/saloon...
Amadi has a rare talent for building up his characters through realistic, naturally flowing conversations and has a sense of how people react to different situations.
Rather, Amadi focuses on telling his story purely and directly, and the insights into the village's way of life follow naturally.And what marvelous insights they are.
He doesn't make excuses for his people's flaws, but he gently reminds the reader that they should not judge people from such a radically different culture until they have experienced it themselves.Ultimately he treats both his readers and his characters with respect.
http://www.maryokekereviews.blogspot....
I looked for this book for almost two years and I was excited to finally get it. Good book, but there was just something I did not quite like - the ending, maybe.
This was weird in the end. I hate the ending. Great writing though. The end though determined rating I gave it . Urgh
I'm concerned about the title though, because not ever is Ihuoma a concubine.
She's married, and widowed, and then some other things that I don't want to spoil but never a concubine.
What's up with that, title?Also, it's very similar to Chinua Achebe in style and of course setting, not as much old sayings in Amadis book though.
You trust the medicine man, because he is the authority in this place, and somehow that makes for quite a magical experience.
The spirits and surroundings magical.
Irony and fate, hell yea!It doesn't get more than an "I liked it", though, because it just didn't move me as Achebes book did.
This is a beautifully written and engaging story with interesting characters.
Another young man, Ekwueme, gradually falls in love with Ihuoma, but he is already betrothed to another girl from childhood.Ekwueme's passion for Ihuoma, and the conflict between their love and the traditions and conventions of the society they inhabit, creates much of the tension in the novel.
With interventions from love rivals, parents, medicine men and the spirit world, the reader is kept guessing right until the last page as to whether Amadi's characters can ultimately find their happy ever after.
This by far my favorite book by an African writer, and though I have read nearly 100 African novels, this is the only one that I have reread - 3 times!Elechi Amadi has written many good books but this one is his masterpiece. It is lyrical, written with a profound sense of understatement that reflects the simple life of pre-colonial Africa. The simplicity of the narrative makes it all the more powerful, and a sense of tragedy grows as the reader draws inexorably closer to the end. A haunting tale.
My husband loves this book. Ithink it's okay. I read it a long time ago though so who knows what a another reading will do to my opinion.A book about a young woman with man trouble of the traditional, spiritual kind is a story not uncommon in these parts and has made many a spiritual man whether pastor, prophet or village priest wealthy. However, it is masterfully told and carries you along completely.
An Amazing African literature set in the eastern part of Nigeria before the colonial era. It shows the unity in the igbo people and how highly they revered their gods. I love the fluidity of the story, i couldn't drop the book when i started. No european values to disturb the age old Eastern Nigerian ways. Originality.
It's a beautifully told story.. Tells the going-ons of a Nigerian village well (at least I Can relate to the some of the African traditions they practice)
Excellent!
One of the most amazing books I have read in a while. It ended too soon.
excellent book ... can't get enough off it !!!
One of the best African books you will read.....
What happened to the African spirit?
Awesome book!! I was locked in from the beginning until the end.
Aaaa!!! Ekwueme. Quite a roller coaster. I salute Elechi
Ihuouma is ill fated and loses her husband prematurely.
Everyone seems to find her praiseworthy due to all these traits, but little is known to them about the loneliness she has to fight constanly, each and every moment.
After the hardships of her widowhood, she finds her true love in ,Ekwueme the village hero.
Once again, fate draws these two nearer and they seem to be dreaming about the fulfillment of their unrequited love and henceforth, being together forever.
The dream shatters in a moment when Ekwueme is killed and Ihuouma remains as lonely as ever.
As someone who is familiar with this culture, I especially enjoyed Amadi's use of proverbs, colloquialisms, and idioms to masterfully capture the essence of the Ikwere language.
Characters refer to next-tomorrow as "the brother of tomorrow"; use shadows to measure the passage of time; and exchange "have you survived the night?" as a morning greeting.
Amadi does not choose sides, but instead revolves the narration around major characters, allowing for insights into their lives and experiences and room for empathy.
Though I found the shock of the ending difficult to digest, I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.
The book was interesting but somehow it just didn’t “flow”. The sentences were short and choppy - the chapters wee short. For me, the writing style detracted from the story because you always felt you were skimming the surface and never going deep. It did keep my attention and it is a quick read.
A beautiful glimpse of a vanished life in an East Nigerian village, this brief novel respectfully describes the characters’ close-knit relationships and deeply held beliefs which hold together the fabric of their lives. If you can navigate the names, you are rewarded by complex characters, drawn with no twinge of colonial perspective.
I loved the book! I wished Ihouma and Ekewame would have been able to live happily ever after. Only God almighty could have set Ihouma free from the Sea-King. This book give great insight to the African customs especially regarding marriage.
