https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226354.Lame_Deer_Seeker_of_Visions
I've read a lot of mystically minded, "authentic" native american stories, and while I have enjoyed a lot of them, this one really hit me where it counts.
So many of the new age mystical texts I've read have this feeling, like "Well, this is just how the universe works, and I the author, must educate you poor souls about it.
Now, you're not going to like hearing this, but this is the way things are, and if you don't believe me, then it's just because your puny unenlightened mind can't handle it.
But I've been up on the hilltop, got my vision and power; the rest is just trimmings."I was raised Catholic, and I didn't realize how much I still looked back on that upbringing until reading this book and thinking "THIS is what a priest should be like." Any one who hasn't walked the dark side, who hasn't questioned their existence, doesn't deserve to educate people on spiritual matters.But John Lame Deer is more than a simple seer.
He explains the narrative of his people and their history with the white man in eloquent but simple language.
As someone from a predominantly (and proudly) american indian family it helped me come to terms with a lot of the things I've always felt in my life that have led to me making somewhat self-defeating choices.
I don't want to make it sound like this is some sort of self-help bullshit.
I'm just saying it helped me realize that the way I feel--have always felt--is often completely at odds to the civilization I'm living in and that I'm not a weirdo for feeling this way.
I was skeptical at first with this book.
I had always lumped this one in with the " Mystical Indian" books that surround the gems I had come to find over the years.
This became one of those gems.
It was refreshing to see it was not some hokum over a shaman, but a book about a man growing up in the early 20th century and finding his voice among many, as well as a voice in his society.
He reminds me of how my grandfather was, whihc made me appreciate the book that much more.
Denn seit meinem Besuch im Westen, versuche ich auf allen meinen Reisen dieses Gefühl der grenzenloser Freiheit und Einheit mit der Natur zu reproduzieren.
Auf seiner turbulenten Suche nach Visionen war er u.a. Outlaw, Polizist und Rodeo Clown bevor er schließlich zum respektierten Medizinmann wurde.Er führt den Leser ein in die Traditionen der Lakota, die stets im perfekten Gleichgewicht mit der Natur lebten, bis die Weißen ihnen ihre Lebensgrundlage raubten, sie in Reservate sperrten und ihre heiligen Stätten zerstörten und schändeten.
Ein weiterer Bestandteil des Buches ist die Weitergabe jahrhunderte alter Traditionen.
Fazit – Die Symbole des Lebens erkennenLame Deer – Seekers of Visions ist mehr als nur die Biographie eines Medizinmanns.
It's not, he says, a phrase that would ever be used in "real" Lakota.) Quite understandably, he and others are very cagey about revealing details of native traditions and spiritual world-view to wasicu, no matter how well-meaning they may be.So it was to some extent with my friend's slant on the subject influencing me that I read Lame Deer, Seeker of Visions.
I don't know if Lame Deer, Seeker of Visions is entirely true to Lakota culture as it is practiced by the Lakota themselves, but I do believe that Erdoes has made a sincere, good-faith effort to transmit what he learned from his Indian friends as faithfully as a white guy could manage.
I think I have wound up reading this book 6 times.
Lame Deer is one of the few people whose social, economic and political criticisms are not purely ideologically or politically driven.
This is one of the few books that will force you to bend your mind in a new way.
Lame Deer makes no pretense to be an intellectual.
This book is about how a dying Lakota shaman sees the world.
You can accept or reject Lame Deer's social critique on the merits of his education, but you can't reject them on the basis of ideology or interest.
As I read this book I felt I was being taken along a journey by an old Indian.
However that does not belong to this entry.So here, in Lame Deer's book, we have an old Indian who is willing to take the reader on a journey of what it was like to be an Indian many years ago and how the values and skills known to this Native American race have been eroded through oppression and discrimination.
Lame Deer takes us on a journey that gives us glimpses of himself as he goes through his life.
The men decided to collaborate together to write a book about the life of Lame Deer.
The first part recounts many funny personal stories about Lame Deer's life and his run-ins with the law, his personal feelings about the present state of the US, and his own thoughts about what it means to be an Indian.
Lame Deer explains how important symbolism is to the Indian and also explains a good deal of Indian mythology in the latter part of the book which helps the average reader get inside the minds of these people and their beliefs.
Tahca Ushte (Lame Deer) was a Lakota medicine man from a land now known as South Dakota (“Sioux” is a white name that insults the Lakota).
By that time, the buffalo were dead, their land was gone, many lived on reservations, and the good old days for the Lakota were behind them.
Lame Deer straddled two worlds, the sacred path of Lakota tradition, and the pure madness of the “frog-skinners” — people who were driven by an insatiable hunger for green frog-skins (dollar bills).
I college theology I only read the chapters that were going to be on the test. Some of the religious element fades into the background when the work is taken as a whole. Still, it's funny, infuriating, and thought-provoking.
First, it contains the life story of Lame Deer, a Lakota man born in South Dakota in 1903 at the absolute nadir of Lakota history.
Lame Deer wanted to tell the world about Lakota ways and get this all written down to preserve it for the generations to come of his own people.
On a third level, this book reflects a very attractive cooperation between two people from backgrounds that could not have been more different: a Lakota man from the prairies of South Dakota and a Vienna-born refugee from Nazism, an Austro-Hungarian in the true sense of that multi-cultural empire.
Tahce Ushte is the main character in this story.
He is a full-blooded Sioux indian.
He is 72 years old.
His name means John Lame Deer in indian.
This is a story about a man that wanted to represent native americans through speech and writing.
He is a very diverse man.
Has many talents and the main one he wanted to pursue was writing.
Throughout his life he met a man and they together wrote a book about Lame deers life story.
It is a great story about a man pursuiung his dreams and going through with it.
A classic. Lame Deer had a foot in the old world, and his insights into the modern world are humorous and important. The book can feel somewhat formless at times, but the messages within are worth the effort of reading. If you're open to it, Lame Deer's voice can change you.
Wonderful. I can't think of a more fitting description.
I had to return my copy back to my friend. Need to purchase a copysoon. I loved it!
Read this book in May of 2014. It was fantastic!
I like the reaction (and also a movie quote), "Accept the mystery!
This seems aligned with what I feel is Lame Deer's key message summed up in this line of the book, "Man cannot live without mystery.
He has a great need of it."Along the way, Lame Deer reveals the details of many ceremonial rites: inside the sweat lodge, pulling an embedded eagle claw from the flesh, the yuwipi binding ceremony, cross-tribal peyote sacrament, and more.Lame Deer espouses some things I find hard to "swallow" from the succulence of puppy flesh to magic like controlling the weather.
In spite of his big antlers he can run through a dense forest no matter how close the trees are standing together.
You don’t quite know how he does it.
Zijn spirituele leer is die van de 'echte lakota' en niet wat de new age onzin er van maakt.
hij uit ook zijn kritiek op de boekgodsdiensten (Christendom, Islam, ...) en zeg dat hij met de andere godsdiensten geen problemen heeft maar wel wat de mensen ermee doen en ervan gemaakt hebben.
Lame Deer is een filosoof die niet hoef onder te doen voor vele andere 'grote namen'.
Wat mij ook raakte, en waar het véél religieuze leiders bij ontbreekt, is de eerlijkheid die Lame Deer toont.
Hij hekelt ook de moderne spiritualiteit waarbij mensen véél geld vragen voor "spirituele begeleiding".
Lame Deer Seeker of VisionsI highly recommend this book describing the life of John Lame Deer if you are interested in the history of Native Americans or their view of The United States.These are the memoirs of Lame Deer that he worked on with Richard Erdoes.
Lame Deer describes how Native Americans dealt with whites taking their land through lies and massacres.
He also describes trying to keep his culture alive.We, the reader, are taken to Native American ceremonies.
To me, this book also gives the best description of how Native American people are connected to the land.We also get the long life of Lame Deer.
"Los hombres nacieron para vivir en tipis, no en los cajones que vosotros llamáis apartamentos.
Habéis convertido a los hombres en marcadores de reloj registrador y a las mujeres en criaturas realmente timoratas.
Vivís en prisiones construidas por vosotros mismos y que llamáis hogares, oficinas o fábricas.
¿Sabéis que es esa cultura de la privación de la que hablan siempre los antropólogos?
Es ser un muchacho blanco de clase media que vive en un apartamento de varios niveles con televisión en color (...) Ellos nunca sabrán que la Tierra es un ser vivo, que las montañas hablan, los árboles cantan, los lagos pueden pensar, las piedras tienen alma y las rocas poder."
Richard Erdoes was one lucky blessed man to have gotten to know and learn and experience time with Lame Deer and Leonard Crow Dog. I’ve read various Native American narrative biographies and the common thread between them is their wise humor and commentary on everything. It really makes one question what the heck have we gotten ourselves into. Someday it will be very clear to everyone that the Native Red Man was right all along about everything. I also recommend reading gift of power by Lame Deer’s son and also written by Richard Erdoes.
Lame Deer was a man who lived his life to the fullest and sought enlightenment without compromise. That's right, the Sioux had an enlightenment tradition and their medicine men were spiritual teachers. Every aspirant can take a leaf from this book. Jesus' crucifixion and the Sioux's sun dance have two things in common: attitude and sacrificial pain. The most important message of this book: You don't need to be a saint to be close to the Spirit, you can be yourself. And why not? The Spirit created you, has he not?
A wonderful story. As Lame Deer told his story he made me laugh, cry, and seethe with rage. I feel so much empathy for him and his people; the US has such a debt to pay to such an ignored and disenfranchised group of humans who have been all but eradicated. Their lands were taken, their mountains destroyed and monumentalized into the faces of conquerors. Their memories, way of life, and spirit will endure.
A series of anecdotes detailing the life of the Lakota Sioux medicine man Lame Deer and the rituals and beliefs of his people. He belongs to that generation that helped keep the tribe's customs alive from those particularly dark days after the conquest to the dawn of the modern Indian rights movement. The book really doesn't do much for me. It's informative and Lame Deer comes of as a decent guy, but I just found it rather dull.
A really beautiful look into Lakota life through the eyes of Lame Deer. More can be learned about their culture and history in this book than in any anthropology or religion class I’ve taken. His critical view on American consumerism and how “green frog skin” runs our lives is so true and definitely brought me to self reflect. Squares confine us.
This book was eye opening and thought provoking, though I did not particularly enjoy it. While I understand and sympathize with the points the narrator makes about the sad and tragic history of the Lakota people, his point of view feels narrow and unfair at times. An interesting read, though more for facts and understanding rather than personal enjoyment.
Lame Deer is an amazing voice to listen to, he is funny, openminded, and a true spiritual seeker who experiences life rather than philosophizes about it.
He also lived at such an interesting life.
His commentary on the continued colonialism of Native peoples, "the green frog skin" (money), and the destruction of the Earth are revealing.
But what I liked most was about how Lame Deer continued to seek his spiritual truth and reality.
he is a true source of wisdom and a joy to listen to.
A stunning and insightful read.
A fascinating recount of the life of a sioux medicine man and of the ways, traditions, religion and culture of the Lakota Indians.
