https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88459.Forever_Flowing
Yes, Everything Flows is a novel, unfinished at the time of the author’s death, but it’s also a kind of testament, a political and philosophical indictment not just of the moral corruption of communism but of Russia itself, of that dark place in the Russian soul that forever eschews freedom in favour of slavery.
These are the little people, the beetle people, who prospered at the expense of those far more talented, who died or disappeared.The novel ranges over some of the tragedy, looked at in simple human as well as grand historical terms.
That’s what Lenin and Stalin said too: The kulaks are not human beings.
The passing of Uncle Joe is significant, because it led to the overturning of many unsound convictions – including, in this instance, Ivan’s – and this, this acceptance by the State that people had been locked up, and murdered, on trumped up charges, meant that ordinary Russians had some uncomfortable truths to confront, not only about how their government had behaved but in terms of their own guilt or culpability also.“The sea was not freedom; it was a likeness of freedom, a symbol of freedom…How splendid freedom must be if a mere likeness of it, a mere reminder of it, is enough to fill a man with happiness.”What is most striking about Ivan is that, although he is so central to the plot, he is, as a character, almost non-existent.
Introduction--Everything FlowsNotesChronologyA Note on Collectivisation and the Terror FaminePeople, Places and OrganisationsBiographical NoteFurther ReadingAcknowledgementsAn Afterword by Yekaterina Korotkova-Grossman
هل فكرنا يوما ما في هولاء اللذين يعيشون الحروب لحظه بلحظة ,هل فكرنا يوما ما بالذين يضطرون للهروب وال
He even published a non-fictional account of World War II called A Writer at War: Vasily Grossman with the Red Army from the Russian point of view.But his masterpiece, undeniably, is Life and Fate which was completed in 1960.
“Life and Fate” (eventually, after its publication) was termed as “War and Peace” of this century, the most complete portrait of Stalinist Russia we are ever likely to have.
I am not much into making people read what I feel is great, but in this case, I would urge every book lover to read the much under-appreciated works of Vasily Grossman.
Admittedly, Grossman wrote this documentary style fiction well after Stalin's death when it had become more possible to acknowledge that mistakes had been made.
However, he knew from his experience of trying to get his previous book past the censor that the freedom to write the truth was still far from possible in tightly controlled, KGB run, soviet Russia.
This book, unpublished in his lifetime, provides an insight into the psychology of the soviet citizen, seemingly willing to obey the most illogical of orders without question and to take punishment even when not guilty, all in the name of the greater good.
A very moving account of the horrors of Bolshevism and Stalinism in Russia.The chapter that touched me the most was the story of a young mother who was taken away from her mother and child to Siberia where she eventually dies of disease and despair No decent human being could fail to be moved by this account of a nightmare that really happened It is told in the rich literary style that can only come from a Russian writer-bringing to life the horrors of Communist tyranny and the beauty of Russian life that survived it
Both have built succesful lives for themselves whilst Ivan has been in the camps, and they feel embarassed and guilty at their relative good fortune, the "friend" doubly so as, unbeknownst to Ivan, it was he who had denounced him.Ivan looks for his sweetheart from the time before his arrest but finds out that she had married and moved away.Ivan finds a job which gives his life some focus and purpose, and he finds love with his landlady.
Even that is snafches away from him.Grossman uses the book to show us other lives affected by Stalin's repression, the callous arbitrary nature of the clampdown and the layers of complicity and betrayal inherent in an often random quota system based on the whims of the dictator.
Grossman's last gasp. An epitaph, which still roundly condemns the inhumanity and evil of the Soviet system, from Lenin on.Even here, there is one last faint glimmer of hope.As the title indicates, the novel flows, from the train trip at the beginning, through show trials, apartment houses, and long lost friends. It's not bitter, and certainly not resigned. Rather, I sense a quiet determination - that this man must tell his story. That is the duty of every survivor of great evil.
Este texto es una de tantas obras que relatan y a la vez tratan de revelar todas las atrocidades del régimen de Stalin (1878-1953); el diseño, construcción y desarrollo de ese régimen; sus motivos y todas las barbaridades que encerró esta construcción del estado soviético.
La obra mezcla un tanto el relato, a través de las vivencias de este personaje, con elementos de lo que podría ser un ensayo, ya que Grossman expone sus ideas sobre cómo se pudo construir esa barbarie llamada estado soviético, el cual se edificó sobre el sufrimiento milenario del pueblo ruso, mismo que ha visto y experimentado todo, excepto la libertad.
1957 marked the year, following Khrushchev's denunciation of the excesses of Stalin, in which the tide of prisoners returning from the Gulag reached its peak.
Since the death of Stalin, the Soviet line had remained relatively firm - Stalin's excesses were the product of a disturbed mind that represented a horrible deviation from the theory and principles of Leninism.
Grossman, prophetically, did not buy into this line and Everything Flows'last chapters are notable for a remarkable attack not only on Stalin but on Lenin and Lenin's anti-democratic tendencies that had more in common with Ivan the Terrible than the principles of revolutionary democracy.
È una spiegazione che si trasforma in un inno alla libertà, parola ripetuta innumerevoli volte nei capitoli finali:«La storia dell'umanità è la storia della sua libertà.
È una lucidità, quella di , che non porta né al cinismo né all'esasperazione della razionalità.
Sono ancora una volta grata a Vasilij Grossman, uomo e scrittore di grande coraggio, che in tempi difficili ha predicato la libertà, condizione essenziale perché l'esistenza umana sia davvero vita.
He meets the man who sold him, he meets his old love who forgot him, he meets his brother who found a way to succeed inside Stalin regime, he learns the way they live and he remembers all turtures he and other people at the camp had to go through and he tries to understand how all this happened, how it became possible to kill and torture mililons of people and he sees in front of him all thousand year history of slavery and lack of freedom in Russia,he sees Lenin and Stalin's role in it and he predicts that Soviet regime will collapse very soon and freedom will win.The book was written shortly after Stalin's death when Grossman himself was released from a labour camp.
Más que una novela, aunque sí tiene algo de acción, es un recuento de las cosas terribles que pasaron por el estalinismo.
Desde la deskulakización, los millones de prisioneros, sentenciados sin ningún tipo de prueba, a desaparecer, ya fuera fusilados, prisioneros de por vida, las familias separadas para siempre, él hambre, la corrupción, en fin, todas las consecuencias que tuvo la búsqueda de Stalin por reprimir lo más esencial en el ser humano: la libertad.
Aún con todas las cosas terribles, con lo duro que es todo lo que cuenta, lo increíble es la visión de esperanza que atraviesa este libro, que Grossman murió sin saber si se publicaría.

The chapter is fascinating for its depiction of the state manufactured famine, how in the name of collectivization it turned against their own peasants.GulagQuote from the book:No, there was no famine at the time of the dispossession of the kulaks.
That’s what Lenin and Stalin said too: The kulaks are not human beings.
I can see now that we are all human beings.End of quotes.These chapters are followed by Ivan's own recollection of his camp's life, the stories he heard, people he met, men vs women sufferings.
It read like a series of essays with the central character Ivan Grigoryevich now released after 29 years in prisons/Siberia for a crime he did not commit. There is some musings from Ivan on the meaning of freedom. There are some musings from informers who survived by naming others as enemies of the State. There is a bleak and harrowing chapter on the Ukrainian famine of the 1930s. Then there are chapters as Grossman tries to understand what happened during the Stalin years.It's an impressive book.
تعتمد الرواية على التصوير التاريخي لكل تبعات الثورة الروسية على نظام القيصر، التفكيك هنا يقوم به غروسمان من المدخل وذلك على هيئة سجين سابق قضى ثلاثين عاماً من عمره -ظلماً- في المعتقلات السياسية والحالة الذهنية التي خرج بها ليقف كشاهد عبر الزمن ومثالاً مؤلماً على تضحية الحزب الحاكم بأغلى ما تملك روسيا: الحرية.
نعم، كانت حياة الرجال أسهل بكثير.""أحياناً كان يشعر بالرعب، كيف كان حصوله على هذه السعادة ممكناً؟ كيف أصبح استيقاظه في منتصف الليل ليصغي إلى تنفس زوجته وطفله "كان الضوء الوحيد الذي يعرفه ينتمي إلى طفولته البعيدة.
سيرغمه على الإعتراف قبل الموت بأنه كان يتمنى تقطيع سيده إرباً.
I hestitated giving this book 5 stars because, although it is amazing, there were parts of it I didn't enjoy that much.
The story starts out simply enough: Ivan Grigoyevich is released from Gulag after 30 years.
We see things from the viewpoint of a woman whose husband is arrested and mostly likely shot.
These are the fascinating stories, as is Ivan's new life outside of Gulag and his adjustment to freedom.
Or what passes for freedom under Soviet rule.
Nonetheless, this is a great book giving a great series of snapshots of lives in the Soviet Union.
سلسلة طويلة من العذاب، العذاب الذي يأتي دون أن تتوقع له نهاية.. كل لحظة تأتي تريدها أن تكون الخلاص وإن كان الموت. لكنك في نهاية الأمر تعود هكذا ببساطة إلى الحرية التي أفتقدتها كل هذه السنين، بشعرٍ رمادي وأحجار بيضاء كانت بيتك يومًا ما."لم يشأ الناس أذية بعضهم، لكنهم يفعلون ذلك طوال حياتهم".رواية رائعة مليئة بالألم الذي يجعلك تتحسس مواطن إنسانيتك خوفًا أن تتحرك وتصبح بلا قلب. أنا فخورة بترجمة هيفاء القريبة للقلب.
Y es precisamente en esta forma de retratar el impacto que tuvo sobre la población el periodo en el que todo el poder de la URSS lo poseía ese hombre bigotudo es algo con lo que no me había topado nunca, al menos no dentro de un nivel de reflexión filosófica e histórica como al que llega Grossman; mentiría si digo que algunos pasajes no me han conmovido casi hasta la lágrima, aunque no creo que la intención fuera, en absoluto, que resultara como una novela sentimental.
Ne sono protagonisti i condannati e le condannate ai lavori forzati, che hanno perso la vita nei lager di Stalin come Maša Ljubimova, o come il personaggio principale, Ivan Grigor'evič, che riesce invece a ritornare dal Kolima dopo la morte del grande tanghero e dopo quasi trenta anni di lavori forzati Grande la soddisfazione e il senso di liberazione perché il megatanghero è crepato: “E all’improvviso, come la luce dell’aurora boreale, cominciò a filtrare tra i ranghi: “è morto Stalin!”.
И въпреки този сериозен „багаж“ „Всичко тече“ на Василий Гросман ме остави безмълвен и вцепенен с неочакваното си величие.
И се нареди сред останалите като нешлифован диамант.На пръв поглед повестта се завърта около Иван Григориевич, който се завръща в Москва след три десетилетия в сибирските лагери.
Иван прекарва 30 години в лагерите, докато Николай е навън, той е част от събитията, бурята не го пречупва, тя го огъва, но не го пречупва.
Няма значение… И изведнъж умира Сталин, а този призрак Иван Григориевич се завръща.
Everything flows begins with Ivan’s release from a prison camp after thirty years and his return into a Russian society still suffering from the dehumanizing effects of Stalin's determined attempt to bring about socialism in one country. It doesn’t really read as a novel, but introduces characters and their stories to throw light on the horrors of that age: the gulags, the liquidation of the kulaks as a class, and the lengths to which people had to go to stay alive. A harrowing yet fascinating read.
¿Tal vez su defensa de la libertad y sus opiniones contra el error/horror en que se convirtió la dictadura comunista en Rusia?
No lo se, pero desde luego nos han privado de conocer antes a un MAGNÍFICO autor.Entre novela y ensayo político sobre la libertad y su vulneración, lejos de la gran distancia de VIDA Y DESTINO, pero con un contenido político más intenso y claro.
La parte narrativa, fluctuante como un río, da paso a claras reflexiones desde dentro del "sistema" soviético que el paso de los años han confirmado.
Potrebbe essere un capitolo di Vita e Destino, ma è più disincantato, più disperato, quasi un grido.
Che illusione terribile, il sogno di libertà.
Secondo Grossman tutto il misticismo, la spiritualità russa proviene dai 900 anni di schiavitù.
Come se lo sviluppo dell'uomo che in occidente coincide con la libertà, in Russia fosse legato all'asservimento.
Ora almeno so che non c'è mai stato un perché.
L'assurdità non è una risposta, ma è semplicemente uno dei fattori che sta dietro all'uomo normale, quello che obbedisce senza se e senza ma e anche quello che nonostante i se o i ma non ha altra scelta.
https://youtu.be/X8goW5397KQ
But the fictional elements are drawn weakly at best and by the middle of the work, he had pretty much abandoned any pretense of writing a novel: Eeven a supposed love interest introduced in the second half was done only to allow Grossman to put a long chapter detailing the destruction of the kulaks and the government-induced famine into the voice of someone other than the author; after she delivers that narration, all that’s left for the character is to get lung cancer and then die.
I think that’s more than zero, but not nearly enough for me to join in the multitude of 4- and 5-star reviews.

Lettura pesante come il protagonista stesso definisce la propria vita, a tratti difficile ma senza dubbio indispensabile, fondamentale e necessaria."La storia dell'umanità è la storia della sua libertà""Il principio supremo della storia mondiale: «tutto ciò che è disumano è assurdo e inutile»"
