https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76050.Beds
A great 10 minute read. As Groucho says, he is imminently qualified to write this book, having slept in everything from bassinets to beds of roses. It contains many practical tips, such as the fact that not only can you get to sleep by adding up sheep, you can stay awake by subtracting them. Also, it includes a good discussion of whether to hide under the bed vs. in the wardrobe. Educational from beginning to end.
Very short and outrageously funny. One wishes it was longer. A must for any Groucho fan, but even if you are not, it will make you laugh.
Je comprends fuck-all mais c'est sans doute dû à la traduction.
Un libro entretenido en el que se puede ver al autor detrás en todo momento. De carácter surrealista, divertido, se lee en un suspiro (es muy cortito).
Ionías sobre ese lugar en el que pasamos buena parte de nuestras días. Curiosamente, cuando Groucho terminó de escribir este libro, se producia la crisis del 30 y la gente en US se suicidaba o se metía en la cama buscando protección. En un momento Groucho dice que una buena forma de encontrar el sueño era llorando, pero era difícil llorar si no habían comprado acciones de General Motors a 130...Cambien el nombre del papel, calculen las pérdidas de la crisis sub prime y... todos a la cama, ya!!
Sure it's dated (actually twice: it was written in the '30s and has photos from the '70s), but Groucho fans will like this little book that takes mere minutes to read. It's filled with innuendo (or as Groucho says: "out the door and innuendo") like the first chapter, "Essay on the Advantages of Sleeping Alone" -- it's blank.
La única forma de leer y disfrutar este libro es, pues... en la cama. Editado en plena crisis de 1929 se trata de una serie de ideas y chistes hilados en un intento de ensayo de menos de 100 páginas sobre el placer de las camas y el difícil arte de dormir feliz en ellas, solo o acompañado. Es muy lúdico, casi bobo, pero también disfrutable!100% Groucho.
A great, albeit quick read. I actually took longer than I should have as I finally found an affordable copy of the first edition printing from 1930 and wanted to be careful with it. I've been searching since I was 12 years old. It usually costs an arm and a leg. All of which have nothing to do with reviewing the book.
Muchos chistes para esa epoca, pero alguno que otro bueno( a mi me pasa lo mismo con mi hijo!), tendria que leerlo en ingles.
Here are seventy-one pages of wit by one of the greatest comedic wits ever.
It's hella short. I thought it was a pamphlet when I got it in the mail. Doesn't matter because it's hilarious.
A very cool book about things to do in bed, if you can find it. I inherited mine, a first edition, from my mother.
Divertido, cortito y gracioso. Se lee rapidisimo y es una lectura liviana, ideal para despues de terminar un libro tedioso.
