https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221302.Around_the_World_in_80_Days
This is the second time I read this book.
I liked it as much as the first time.
I really liked the characters of Phileas Fogg , Passpatout, and Aouda.
I thought both Passpatout and Fogg both caring men with hearts of gold.
As for Detective Fix, I thought it was rash of him to assume Mr Fogg was a bank robber just because he had money.
Passpatout unknowingly befriended him.
Yet, he still turns Mr Fogg in.
I really wanted Mr. Fogg to succeed in winning his bet.
I thought he was a most sincere person.
Reseña completa en el blog: https://loslibrosdeldesvan.blogspot.c...No sé si soy la única que tenía la idea preconcebida de que este libro trataba de muchas aventuras en distintos países del mundo, visitando los monumentos más significativos, conociendo todas las culturas y llegando a todo correr a trenes, monociclos y globos aerostáticos.
Este libro es un libro de transporte, el 98% de las escenas transcurren dentro de un tren, un barco o, como mucho en una estación.
Los personajes me han gustado y, sobre todo al final, la historia es emocionante, pero la verdad es que hubiera preferido que los personajes salieran del transporte y conocieran a personas de la calle.
it's a classic, about Phileas Fogg he has a bet with his friends.
During his travels he meets this beautiful Indian princess, that is mistaken for a huge crime and the detective is trying to stop them during this trip.
Will Phileas Fogg make it in time and win the winnings?
will he get stopped by the detective and get arrested?
I Chose this book because it was the only one that I could find, also the title interested me.
I do not recommend this book to my peers because it was not very interesting and I do not believe they will enjoy this.
Favorito de la infancia. Lo empecé una vez a los 7-8 años y fue demasiado para mí, lo volví a retomar a los 10 y lo amé. Phileas Fogg y Passepartout deben ser dos de mis personajes favoritos de Verne y de la literatura en general. Lo releí muchas veces y seguramente lo vuelva a hacer pronto ya que estoy releyendo todos los libros de Verne en orden cronológico.
It seems like such a British book, beginning as it does with Fogg and his Reform Club cronies in London, so comes as a bit of a shock whenever we remember that Jules Verne was actually a Frenchman.The descriptions of the different places, which we see mainly from Passepartout's lively point of view, are great.
Personal ResponseI really enjoyed this book because it talks about a man (Phileas Fogg) who does a deal with someone else and Phileas Fogg is supposed to travel the world in 80 days and if he does make it he will win 20,000 euros.
It is an interesting story because of all the places he goes to.Plot SummaryIn the story there is a man who robs the bank and is running away from the police.
While that is going on Phileas Fogg says that it would take at least 80 days to travel around the world.
Another fun adaptation by Leighton. The writer has a gift for reducing these amazing stories to their key points and making them accessible for parents and kids of all reading levels. Find it. Buy it. Read it!
4.5 starsI liked it better than 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
I always assumed I had read the original or seen a film or otherwise knew this story but realized immediately I was wrong. I enjoyed all the adventures, the coolness with which Phileas Fogg approached every encounter, and even this children’s-adaptation did a good job of tricking me with the twist at the end. I look forward to reading the original eventually to see what adventures were left out of this one. The 3 year old now loves to say “around the world in 80 days by Jules Verne!”
This wasn't one of my favorite Jules Verne book for there didn't really seem to be much going on with the plot.
Basically what makes Jules Verne work so great is his combination of science with the background story but within this one there is also no new science contribution but a man who just plans that he is going to use the new technology of the time to prove a point.
I like Jean probably the most since he wasn't stuck up, he was trying to help and he had a bit more going on but unfortunately you just wanted to shake him at the same time.
They never do fly in a hot air balloon.
Just have to point that out.
I did not realize how funny Jules Verne could be.
There were times when I read this book I was absolutely tickled by the characters.
This book was not exactly science fiction like I thought it would be.
All of it was possible while Jules Verne was alive.
I think that was the point.
Verne could not believe how far we could go.
This is a fun romp.
Supposedly not all of Verne's geography, or timing is correct.
It is just a fun adventure story.
This book to me was considered okay. It didn't really give me a good understanding of what's happening in the story. The use of vocabulary was a little too easy to read. The author could've used more educated vocabulary in the text when explaining the story to the readers. After reading this book, I will consider thinking of reading the other books by the
I did this as an audio book but I still enjoyed it as if I had read it. It was just easier for me to listen to it. It was interesting to find out all the things Fogg had to go through and all the adventures it went on, it was a lot more than I expected. I am glad to have read it.
Funny, adventurous,gripping, full of plot twist.Thoroughly enjoyed!!🤓
Great ending! But you gotta read the whole book to get to it!
A quick fun read. MUCH better than the movie with David Niven
For those who love adventure, this is a good book. I found it a bit too descriptive, but detailed descriptions aside, the events in the book are interesting and fun to read. The book tells the story of Philias Fogg and his servant Passpartout as they embark on a journey around the world in 80 days, it's not as simple as it sounds, and they have to face some obstacles that come in their way. There's a lesson to take from the characters in how they deal with the obstacles in their adventure.
The major character Phileas Fogg, a stern and disciplined man claims that it is possible to go around the world in eighty days.
This novel marks in a person’s mind that nothing is really difficult if one makes a decision to step up and experience something challenging.I found the book very captivating, the journey of Mr Fogg knowing the various challenges that could be faced and making a pledge against all oddities makes you wonder if it really is possible.
Mr fogg high risk taking and strength of mind to finish his voyage made the book overall interesting to read.I think this book is very inspirational and I could relate to the characters in the book “Sir Francis Cromarty .
A classic favorite from my childhood!! I very much enjoyed this illustrated version that brought back amazing memories of my father reading this to me as a young child!! Definitely a staple in your classics collection!!
অতযনত ভাল কলপবিজঞান কাহিনী । বিশবের পরথম সারির কলপবিজঞান লেখকদের মধযে Jules Verne অনযতম ।
অত্যন্ত ভাল কল্পবিজ্ঞান কাহিনী । বিশ্বের প্রথম সারির কল্পবিজ্ঞান লেখকদের মধ্যে Jules Verne অন্যতম ।
cerita dan cara menceritakannya menyenangkan hanya kecewa saja depan cetakannya Octupus, makin ke akhir makin banyak typo bertebaran sepanjang halaman.
We have a bunch of my husband's books from when he was younger and I decided it would be fun to read them-- this is the first time I've ever read this story.
Great adventure story with some bias views, however written in 1873. Great characters and wonderful overall message to the reader.
I read this aloud to my 8yr old and he really liked it! It was sophisticated and well-written enough for me to enjoy and adventurous enough for him to enjoy.
The students liked it bit thought Frankenstein was better. This is a great way to introduce the classicsto elementary school students.
One of my favourite adventure book.
I loved this book! just finished it today. my mom insisted that i read it, after losing interest half-way in. I finished it, and glad that i did!
I would have never picked this book up on my own choosing. I'm glad I did :)
I admit at the beginning I didn't care for Mr. Fogg, but by the end he was an outstanding character.
Phileas Fogg (the main character) and his servant bet their life savings that they can go around the world in 80 days.There are only a couple these that I disliked in this story, and it is that there is like not that much action in this book for me.
That’s the only this I disliked about this book.Phileas Fogg bets his whole life time savings on that he can go around the world in 80 days.
So this is a book where all of this characters are honest people well most of them.So in this young adult novel I would recommend this book to people who are adventures and willing to stay in this book.
