https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104106.The_Ritual_Bath
I have been looking for "that perfect detective series" to get involved in since I have read every V I Warshawski book ever written.
The Ritual Bath by Faye Kellerman is the first book in the Peter Decker and Rina Lazarus series (thank you Magpie67 for the recommendation).
She is the Mikvah (ritual bath) attendant and math teacher while trying to be both mother and father to her two boys.
Enter detective Peter Decker, LA's top rape and murder detective.
A fun read, I recommend to those detective lovers who haven't discovered this series yet.
Since the beautiful widow and mother of two boys Rina Lazarus, love interest of the detective Peter Decker, is an Orthodox Jew, I am grinding my teeth even while I am admiring this interesting beach read of a novel.This is book one - how they meet, so I knew I had to start here.
Yet the Jews who are present continuously disapprove of all contact between the Jewish women present and ANYONE else, feeling there should be NO contact or conversation whatever the situation.There are dozens of following examples in the book of rigid disapproval and threats of social isolation if Rina continues to meet and talk with police or anyone outside the enclave, even after another woman is raped and yet another woman is horribly murdered.
(By the way as far as I can find Harry Kellerman is no relation to this author or her husband).Anyway, the writer's orthodox faith is part of the story here and she incorporates it into the story very well.
I'm not a fan of romance and while the budding love story of our two main characters is a big part of things here it doesn't draw away from the novel.Well characterized and well written.
I'll say I didn't like it as much as the first book I read by Ms. Kellerman but that may be a good thing.
As noted the first book i read was the 8th in the series.
I can't finish one book without immediately starting another (even if it's only the first couple of pages) and I found myself (late) one night with a finished book and no idea what to read next.
I learned a lot about my heritage by reading these books.
Peter & Rina (& their family & friends) are all great characters that come to life off the page.The stories are pretty harsh (stay away Mandy Patinkin)and sometimes just the heavy load of human misery can be overwhelming...
This book was clearly written to appeal to someone very different from myself. Didn't get through enough to feel like it would be fair to give it a star rating, although I will say that the writing was uninspired enough to make the experience as interesting as performing the multitude of chores that the main character is engaged in during the first several paragraphs. Audiobook, borrowed from my public library via Audible. Michael Greenberg sounds as bored reading it as I felt listening to it.
One of her better books. Trying to describe orthodox Jewish concepts to non-Jews is always hard. Ms Kellerman does fairly well with this book.
It's not the worst thing I've read for mystery book club, but the easily solved mystery (with absolutely no real logic behind the crime) and the ridiculous characterization made me toss the book aside once I finished, thinking that it was a waste of time.I disliked Decker: misogynistic (both in the belittling and sexual predatory meanings), patronizing toward women, a "sympathetic" backstory (view spoiler)[now with more Jewishness!
Sayers territory later on, with untranslated Hebrew dialogue and religious allusions.Kellerman could have had a well-written, interesting series here, but I don't think this first book in the Decker/Lazarus chronicles starts it off well.
Closer to a 3.5, but a difficult one for me to rate as far as "enjoyment" because of some of the subject matter - reading about rape and extreme prejudice is difficult to "enjoy" as such.
An interesting crime mystery with well-developed characters though, and I did really enjoy learning more about Torah Judaism and other varying Orthodox Jewish views and traditions.
As this is the first novel in a series about the two main characters, it would be very interesting to see how the relationship between Rina and Peter develops in light of their different views.
This is the first book in a mystery series starring LAPD Detective Peter Decker and his romantic interest, Orthodox Jewish widow Rina Lazarus. I absolutely loved this book. Peter and Rina are both well developed, as is the description of life in a yeshiva. The plot (involving rape and murder in a place where Rina and other women feel most safe) is disturbing, but the chemistry between Peter and Rina is light and natural in the most dark and unnatural of circumstances. Highly recommended, and I'm looking forward to the rest of the series.
As a thriller or police procedural, it just about passes muster. However, the characters were sufficiently interesting for me to order the next book in the series to find out about their further adventures.
Takes place in a Jewish Yeshiva community with a group of very religious people.
Det. Decker is dealing with rapes in his town and is assigned to this community to cover yet another rape - but because of this close knit group, he has to approach it carefully as their customs are strict.
The only one who will talk openly to him is Rina Lazarus who also takes him through the customs and laws.
By the time they get to the bottom of both crimes, Decker and Lazarus have discovered things about themselves they try to control .
This is my review of all the Rina/Peter Decker series.They can be read in any order, but I recommend
What I find unusual is the amount of Orthodox Jewish life represented in what I thought would be a mainstream book.
To someone unfamiliar with Orthodox Judaism, that may be a huge turn off.A portion of the story hit me on a personal level, in an irritating way - that included an "all too convenient" plot twist.
Due to that, I would have given this book a 3-star rating.
However, it's unusual for a book rating for me to be something I find personal, so I'm going with 4-stars.Confused?
My first Faye Kellerman read, another author recommended to me. I've read several of her husband's - Jonathan Kellerman - books and decided it was time to try her's. This is the first book in the Peter Decker detective series by Faye Kellerman. Definitely enjoyed it and will read the others as I find them. I liked that she added a little about the Jewish traditions of a yeshiva. I enjoy learning about other religions and cultures. Was a mover and kept my interest. I pictured David Caruso as Decker.
A decent thriller with a great setting. I wish there were more books about orthodox Jews as I find them fascinating. It's like if Yentl were a thriller. My only complaint was that at times it felt more like a romance than a thriller. I could have done with a bit more thrilling and a bit less romance. But still good.
The main character is a gruff (of course!) LA detective, Peter Decker, who is also trying to hunt down the Hillside Rapist, while solving a rape at the school.
In his investigations at the yeshiva, Peter works with a young widow Rina Lazarus, a devout teacher who struggles with her attractions to the rough detective.
And solve the crimes at the Jewish school?
I don't want to spoil the ending but this IS the first of a series of Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus novels....At times the book was slow, with descriptions of house work, settings and small interactions.
I enjoyed this whole series. I so learned a lot about Jewish history and the religious tenets.
This book had a lot of promise in the beginning and I felt connected, drawn to, and cared about the main characters.
She painted a decently picture of the beliefs, laws, customs, rituals, and more that gives the reader a basic understanding of what it is and means to be one type of a Hasidic Jew, and what it's like to be a part of a closed religious community.
I was very also very interested because the author's story thrust together those in the fervently religious community with the "outside" world.
This is the first book of the Decker/Lazarus series.
Detective Decker is sent to solve this case.
While doing so, he meets Rina Lazarus, the witness and a religious widow with two small boys.
The witness again is Ms. Lazarus.
Soon, both Decker and Rina find themselves in a precarious relationship, as Rina’s religion prohibits her from involvement with Decker.Faye Kellerman is a prolific author, well-known for her crime novels.
This series alone has nineteen dealing with Detective Decker and his cases, while telling his further involvement with Rina and her sons.
This is the first of Kellerman’s books that I read.
A bit predictable (I knew part of the ending in a few pages) but a great story set in an incredible place. Why would someone attack women at a yeshiva? And will they do it again?Peter Decker "catches" the case, and falls for the mikvah (ritual bath)helper. Not only must they figure out who and why but how come they are attracted to one another, impossible as it may seem. This is a good mystery and fascinating setting. Will look for others in the series
I fell in love with the Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus series well into the series with "Grievous Sin"...love the characters & religious overtones...as a Roman Catholic, I appreciate the traditions of religion & thus enjoy the many side journeys into the traditions of Judaism...so, I went to the beginning where they met...it certainly isn't a "meet cute" as Decker arrives at Rina's late husband's yeshiva to investigate a rape on its grounds...great stuff!
I love this series. There are at least 10 to 12 books in the series. You can read the series out of sequence, but then you do not get to enjoy parts of the books that depict the domestic side of Detective Decker and his lovely wife and family. They are Orthodox Jews but that is only a slight and interesting sideline to the books. All of the characters are real and enjoyable. Most of the novels are intriguing, well thought out and just good reads.
Good read! Only problem I had was all the Hebrew words. Would have liked a glossary instead of having to search Google or Wikipedia via my Nook app. For a book written in the eighties, it is surprising current...minus the "ghetto blaster" references and a few other iconic elements. Definitely someone I would read agian. Definitely a series I would continue with.
3.5... Not GREAT but very good. Good story with likable key players. I will continue with the series for sure. :-)
Social Order Warriors (SOWs) of today, that is those who want to Make America Great Again (MAGA) and Jordon Peterson followers want nothing more than to bring back ‘social order’ to the way things used to be as depicted in this book: where heroic men objectivize women, religious superstitions must be respected, and women need a man to protect them.
Today, I am slightly offended at the way Peter Drecker (the protagonist) sexified the heroine of the story, or how people would call it ‘Jew Town’, or the exorbitant amount of deference the author gave to religious beliefs that seemed to embrace cloistered thinking.
What a marvelous statement!SOWs want perfect order restored.
I first read this novel a number of years ago and loved it.
I recently went back and re-read the novel and must say it is better the second time through.
The Peter Decker/ Rina Lazarus characters are well developed and the author has crafted a wonderful blend of a police procedural, a developing love interest, and traditional Jewish faith and family life.
As one continues the series, the author crafts excellent procedurals where the key characters are further developed and aged gracefully, all the time blending family life with the police procedural genre.
I like a book in this series so I decided to start at the beginning of the set. I was a tad surprised it went back all the way to before Peter and Rina were married. I look forward to seeing how this relationship develops among the murder, mystery and rape. I know where the couple end up but it will be fun to see Rina's reaction when the man who has captured her attention can be a viable option for her after all.
Pete Decker and Rina Lazarus meet.
She, an Orthodox Jew, is a widow with two boys.
He is a divorced father raised Southern Baptist with a teen-aged daughter.
Still sparks fly.
Rina has volunteered for the job of cleaning the bath after each visit which means that she is going home late, alone, and in the dark.
I enjoyed the mystery and had no idea who the suspect was but the most interesting part of the book is Decker's stumbling into a realization of what it means to be an Orthodox Jew.
Not too much of a mystery. It is more of a thriller. It is more about the couple at its center than the crime, but still quite enjoyable, albeit pretty dated.
