https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2297206.The_Soul_Winner
wow!!! what a great book! oh, for old-time biblical, baptist doctrine! convicting, practical, doctrinal, and interesting. spurgeon nails this one. Thank you, Jeremy, for recommending this book to me. I recommend this book strongly to every preacher, and also recommend it to all servants of God. a top ten book out of my last hundred read.
He says: "You may, perhaps, think I am speaking of trifling matters that are hardly worthy of consideration; but I am not, for these things may cause most serious results; and as it is easy to speak and write correct English, do try and know all you can of it." - Page 77 Other than Spurgeon's great balance of the sovereignty of God and man's responsibility, there are four distinct ideas that have stuck out to me so far which I will summarize below with quotes from the book.1) We must offer people what has first gripped our own hearts."In order that you may impress the Word upon those to whom you preach, remember that it must be impressed upon yourself first.
This book is a collection of sermons and talks given by Charles Spurgeon on the subject of evangelism.
I not only found it informative, but also convicting.
It caused me to examine my own heart for evangelism.
Spurgeon, who is known as the 'Prince of Preachers' as a way with words that is eloquent, to the point, and truthful all at the same time.
I especially appreciated his reminder that our lives must be in accordance with our message.
This book impacted me in a big way.
I highly recommend this to all Christians who are interested in how to share their faith and why.
Nothing like a healthy dose of Spurgeon to fire you up to preach the gospel!
When I first got this book I was told it was superseded by Spurgeon's "Lectures to my Students".
As a more rounded studying of what a minister should be, perhaps that is the case, but the single-minded focus of this book is on winning souls for Christ.It is excellent!
Challenges to duty.
Real encouragements too.It seems to be written down from addresses where he spoke, so I also appreciated the man's own gifts and abilities and the spectacular use of illustration.One I really liked was where he spoke of putting himself in the "gospel gun" and firing himself at the congregation, as whatever else he may say sometimes it's when he's at an end of himself and has to plead from his own experiences that some are blessed by it.
This is doubtless the best book one can read on evangelism. Spurgeon has authority and imagery that is rarely read, especially in modern literature. To be told so clearly and so eloquently what the Christian life looks like breathed new life in my soul.
"I ask every Christian worker to see to it that he never turns aside from shooting at this target.
His aim should be at the center of this target, too, namely that he may win souls for Christ and see them born to God and washed in the fountain filled with blood.
Let the workers' hearts ache and yearn and their voices cry until their throats are hoarse.
As the fisherman longs to take the fish in his net, as the hunter desires to bear home his spoil, as the mother yearns to clasp her lost child to her bosom, so do we faint for the salvation of souls.
Excellent book!I recommend this book to anyone who has a heavy heart for lost souls and want to see them saved. C.H. Spurgeon has an entrusting way with words.This is a must read for anyone who proclaims the gospel.
Fantastic. Spurgeon is at his most pastoral here. He's also quite witty.
At one point, he talks about how to get a church moving toward evangelical excitement, and he says that (this is a paraphrase), 'there are different ways of setting a house on fire: you can dump gasoline in the middle of the floor, or you can start at each of the edges.
Personally, I've never tried either; I'd rather set a church on fire.
Because when a church burns, it doesn't burn down, it burns straight up to heaven.' Can we all agree that this is crazy cool?
Probably the most powerful book I've ever read on Evangelism and preaching and what it means to be a witness.
Not exaggerating.
I recently put out a blog post on my 11 favorite books of all time and this book might have to be moved into that echelon.
Spurgeon reasons with you Biblically in this book but the power is in Spurgeon spilling his guts and just pouring out his heart on why we need to elevate the Great Commission in our hearts and how it needs to be second to none in what we're living for.
This book has left a mark on me to say the least.
This compilation of Spurgeon's writings is an encouraging read to those who have a desire to evangelise, and impresses the type of heart they ought to have for their fellow men. As other reviewers have commented, it is somewhat light on exegesis, and I woud suggest it doesn't adequately distinguish the evangelical work to which Gospel minsters alone are called, from the general duty of all Christians to be witnesses on the side of Christ.
this is one of the best books i have ever read. each chapter is Spurgeon's insight into how preachers should preach and how someone who is seeking to bring people to the Lord ought to. Considered the greatest preacher of all time, this is a must read for anyone seeking to make an impact for God's kingdom.
This is a must-read book for preachers and teachers, although all believers will benefit from it. I only give it 3 stars because it is limited in the audience who would benefit the most. Spurgeon has given us a wealth of wisdom for those willing to dig. If that is you, I would totally recommend this.
Deeply convicting, motivating and, at times, funny this classic will be in regular rotation for me throughout the years. Though the messages contained in this volume were addressed to seminary students, there is gold here for anyone whose heart is slightly moved to bring the hope of the Gospel to their world and needs spurring.
Charles Spurgeon, the Prince of Preachers, has done a wonderful job with this book. Written in the late 1800's to early 1900's, you would swear that he is writing to todays culture from back then.A must read.
This book was one that gives you a fire for pursuing the lost and bringing them to Christ. Spurgeon aimed most of it to preachers, but there's a lot that any Christian can use. Certainly a profitable book.
This is like a handbook for preachers and evangelists, even Christian leaders. I love reading this one over and over again.
Excellent reading. Charles Spurgeon is unmatched in his ability to open timely wisdom in a passage of a Scripture. Every believer should read this book and get back to the task of soul winning!
One of the best books I have read by Spurgeon.
This is a classic on soul winning by one of the greatest soul winners. So excellent, that we translated it into spanish and make it required reading for our ministry!
Book of sermons by Charles Spurgeon. If you don't have a problem with reading older books, you need to give this a shot. Lots of good insights and can be read in small pieces.
Very good.
It almost feels heretical to say that I really don't like Spurgeon but that's where I landed after reading this book.
It was a fine book with good ideas and Biblical truths but I don't like his style of writing.
As with many authors of his time period Spurgeon's writing style is very flowery, he uses lots of examples and stories when writing.
I love reading quotes from Spurgeon, he does have a wonderful way of putting things.
I will say that after the first 4 or 5 chapters I did start to like the book a little better.
It is clear, for example, that the author wishes for his audience to cut a narrow path between ignorance and overly cerebral tendencies, and that it is vital that religious instructors to children or adults, brethren or outsiders need compassion and understanding for those they are speaking to.
He writes with such heart and such conviction.
I found this book to be helpful, practical, convicting, and encouraging, and would encourage every Christian to read it.
He writes about sharing the gospel so simply but with so much depth at the same time."It is good to be a fool when Christ is made unto you wisdom.
It is a blessed thing to be weak if Christ becomes more fully your strength.
Go to work, you who would be fishers of men, and yet feel your insufficiency.
You that have no strength, attempt this divine work.
Your master's strength will be seen when your own has all gone.
Timeless, great book on preaching. Practical not just for the pulpit but also just for living a life that preaches in any job. I recently read the great book on preaching, Communicating for a Change by Andy Stanley. Although this book was written 120+ years ago, many points that Andy Stanley highlighted were mentioned in this one as well. Basically what if comes down to is having a heart for people, having a goal for the sermon, don’t share things that don’t help you get to that destination, always preach Jesus, and allow the Holy Spirit to do His work.
Though this book was originally published years ago it reads like it could have been written yesterday. This is one of those books that is too good to miss. I was challenged in every chapter with how I am doing in my own life and ministry at looking at others and trying to give them the good news of Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter if someone is in vocational ministry or any other profession Spurgeon does a great job of helping everyone to better fulfill Jesus' final command to his disciples, "Make disciples."
Solid words for pastoral motivation to win souls through preaching. Spurgeon uses scripture, humor, and strategy for preaching sermons and to win souls. This book is full of great tops and you will find yourself agreeing out loud with his conclusions on regeneration ("don't count your chickens before they are hatched"). Spurgeon is not looking for notches on his belt but rather fishing for disciples. Did I mention this book is loaded with scripture? I'd recommend this book for hardcore evangelists who are looking for fresh perspectives or those who are stuck in a rut.
“The Soul Winner” is a collection of lectures/sermons given by C.H. Spurgeon (a Reformed Baptist) on the topic of evangelism. It is without a doubt the best book I’ve read on the topic, and one that I found to be exegetical, informative, encouraging, and also convicting.I’m very thankful for such a work as this, and will recommend this work to anyone interested in learning more about how to win souls.
