https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15096.Five_Quarters_of_the_Orange
While reading this book for the second time, I wondered at length, what is drawing me back to this book.The story is a dark story of a child growing up with a very difficult, unpredictable mother in occupied France.
The only peaceful time that is shared by mother and child is while cooking.I have found that many people do not like stories of difficulty between children and parents.
She finds that she has much in common with her mother and accepts the part of her that is so much like her mother.Not only does this book find the hope in a difficult and unsettling relationship, it has amazing food references!
There is something a little unbalanced about this book -- and one gets that feeling from the start.
Framboise's dark strength is counter-balanced by her mother's ephemeral nature.
Her migraine headaches, brought on by the scent of oranges, keeps her absent from her own life and leaves her open to the doom that the children's mischief will eventually bring upon her.In a strange contradiction of her own nature, the mother is also a superb cook: the delicious meals she prepares would make a voluptuary blush -- an irony, and an enigma.
I ended up liking this book in the end, and would maybe have given it 4 stars, if large parts of it didn't drive me so nuts.
I had a really hard time getting into it; the real story didn't really start until 100 pages into it.
And I had a really hard time connecting to the characters in any sort of way.
The mom acts like she hates her children the whole book, and the children hate their mom.
This is not a novel about the Second World War and does not focus on facts or figures or the details of history that some people might prefer, for me I have read a lot of books on the history of the war and I love my history books but this book tells a story all its own where the characters and the setting give the reader a sense of time and place and I found this a very atmospheric novel that I just wanted to finish in one go.The writing is beautiful and while the first 100 pages are slow paced there is always a sense from the author's writing that she is building you up for a great story.
Only a terrific author can write about something as appalling as war and occupation and uneccesary death but yet make you feel so alive and carefree whilste reading it.
The prose was as mouthwatering, succulent and juicy as the food in the book and I wanted to be there!
Only a talented author can make you feel like that while telling the story of something far more sinister.This is a book about an old woman who comes back to the village of her childhood, but can't allow the villagers to find out who she really is.
I want to read it all over again.
Using the black market oranges to provoke her mother’s migraine headaches, Framboise torments the woman and ensures herself unsupervised time with the soldier.
The friendship spurs a series of events which affect the lives of the family and their neighbors.Now with the perspective of age, and through the encrypted recipe book/journal left to her by her mother, Framboise learns of the events from her mother’s perspective and unravels the mystery that has haunted her and shaped her life.Somewhat dark at times, this complex story is layered with symbolism and has the ability to haunt you long after you have finished reading.
It's excellent and 4.5 star, IMHO.The characters are not easily liked, very few are amiable, and the entire is both dramatically and emotionally tense.
And that tension is for its entire length and continued within personality and character far beyond the ending.
Of all the stories I have read upon WWII Resistance vs collaborators, this is the one that I would most probably pick as the most likely real/ true.
Strong willed people are quite like that as children.
That kind of behavior, in girls especially, is not all that obscure or noticeably rare.
I have to say that reading this novel made me appreciate Gentlemen and Players a bit more.
This time I knew what I was getting with Joanne Harris- a dark atmospheric novel of psychological suspense.
It is hard to imagine that a nine year old could be so ruthless, but it was a different time, a different place, and I felt for Framboise.
Just as Straitley was the perfect foil in Gentlemen and Players, so Paul is in Five Quarters of the Orange.
They help soften the brutality.One thing is certain; Joanne Harris' novels are not easily forgotten!
Do you know, I have a much harder time writing a review for a book that I didn't particularly like than for one I really enjoyed?I didn't particularly like Five Quarters of the Orange, by Joanne Harris, but I am at a loss to explain why.
Ms. Harris's book concerns, in part, the relationships between a young German soldier and some French children and their mother in occupied France during WWII.
I also thought she could have done more with the morality of forming relationships with the enemy.
But this is a much darker story altogether, and a much more satisfying read.Framboise is the daughter of Mirabelle Dartigen - a woman held responsible by the villagers for a terrible tragedy which took place during the German occupation many years previously.
Framboise returns to the village anonymously, hoping for a fresh start,(view spoiler)[ although she has troubled memories.
From the cryptic scribbles she begins to learn of her mother's sensuous obsession with food, which jars with her own recollections of how cruel her mother could be.
An incident dating from when Framboise was 9 years old is the key to the mystery.
I don't really know what to say about this book.
While you are reading, you know that "something happened" and that you will eventually find out.
She spills out little hints and pieces in small doses, so she still doesn't reveal what exactly happened until the last page.
The characters in this book are all negative, too.
It is one of those books I need to read again to fully understand, and pay attention more the second time, but I don't know if I really want to take the time to do so.
Joanne Harris, sal no pontoJoanne Harris é, na sua essência, exactamente o que este livro oferece: narrativa de ritmo pausado, polvilhada de conteúdo habilmente exposto, montagem engenhosa de argumento e… descrições quase palpáveis de comidas, bebidas, cheiros e sabores.Neste “Cinco Quartos de Laranja”, na primeira pessoa, por Framboise Dartigen, acompanhamos uma estória com frequentes flashbacks de um passado de guerra, de importância crucial para entender o presente.Harris domina a arte do “levar até, dar a entender, mostrar o caminho, sem expor”.
O seu aroma é amargamente nostálgico, um cheiro negro a folhas queimadas com uma ponta de fumo no vapor.
3,5 αστέρια
Uživala sam u čitanju ove knjige.Sviđa mi se spoj prošlosti i sadašnjosti i priča koju je autorica vješto ispreplela.Divna knjiga bez patetike i klišea(koje sam valjda očekivala)Preporuka❤
In Blackberry Wine, Marise d'Api is the strong female lead, writer Jay Mackintosh's unfriendly, closed off, and mysterious neighbor.
In the latter, the elixir is fruit-based wine, specifically a set of vintage '75s, which Jay Mackintosh finds in the remains of Pog Hill decades ago when he returns the summer following his unannounced disappearance.Five Quarters of the Orange tells a multi-generational story with lies, secrets, family database, but with redemption, love, healing, and perseverance shining throughout.
Relatives to Marise (similar to the neighbors in Five Quarters of an Orange) were cold and unwilling to be understanding, believing only what they want to believe.The only character that was well-written for me was his childhood friend during his Pog Hills days.
Framboise and her family live in a small French village during the German occupation.
The father was killed early in the war by a German, but this doesn't stop the entire family - Framboise's cold mother, her beautiful sister and her sly-but-cowardly brother - from becoming involved with the Germans...
Things end badly, with Framboise and her family leaving the village after somehow causing the deaths of 10 people.
It's not until the end, after untangling her mentally unstable mother's journal that Framboise (and the reader) figures the entire story out.This book captured me and wouldn't let go.

Anos depois da primeira leitura, continua a ser um dos meus livros preferidos (de sempre!)
Like Chocolat, at the heart of this book is the relationship between a mother and her daughter with very much a foody theme running through it.
It is not until you get right into the heart of the story and get a real understanding of the characters that you get an idea of the true nature of their relationships.Framboise is nine years old during the events that take place in WWII and for me this just didn’t work.
When the story does start unfolding it is not a bad read at all, just a bit of a disappointment after Chocolat.
Harris chose brilliantly when she made 9-year-old Framboise the protagonist of this novel.
The novel is based on Framboise's lies and deceptions dating back to one childhood summer in occupied France in WWII and continuing into her old age.
Everything that seemed superfluous in Blackberry Wine or contrived in Chocolat worked seamlessly here at the service of a tale as relentless as the course of the river Loire and as muddied and tangled as the currents along its banks.
(SPOILER) My only criticism of the plot is that Harris redeems nearly all the characters in the end.
She encorpoates social issues, different beliefs and food all into one and it is brilliant how she does so.
However, this novel took a long while (about 100 or so pages) to really get going and I didn't like that there wasn't any clear indication on whether it was a flashback or current time.
I loved Framboise as a narrator and I liked that I got to see a different side to wartime rather than the usual fighting.
I enjoyed the merging of French and German culture.
Overall, I don't think it was as good as Chocolat but I enjoyed the novel immensely.
What a terrific novel. It starts off like a liqueur chocolate: when you first pop it in your mouth, you are not quite sure what it will taste like. Then the further you go, the secret of the interior starts to reveal itself slowly until you are totally absorbed in its content. Couldn't put it down - a simple interwoven story, told beautifully. A must-read.
Opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ZySz...
O desafio "Monthly Key Word" continua a ir à estante buscar livros esquecidos, e em Agosto voltei à Joanne Harris.Framboise é a narradora desta história, que recua aos anos da Segunda Guerra Mundial numa pequena localidade francesa, onde vivia com a mãe e os seus dois irmãos, Cassis e Reine-Claude.
As visitas dos irmãos à localidade mais próxima resultam no encontro com um jovem nazi alemão, Tomas Leibniz, por quem Boise se apaixona e que terá uma participação decisiva no futuro desta família.Mas a narrativa decorre também muitos anos mais tarde, quando Boise regressa à sua terra natal, após a morte da mãe, para tomar conta do diário desta, que é também um livro de receitas.
Framboise, daughter of the infamous Mirabelle Dartigen, returns to her home village on the banks of the Loire.
One can never run away from it.Framboise has inherited a recipe book cum diary from her mother, Mirabelle.
Little does she know that within the journal's tattered pages lies the key to what actually transpired the summer Framboise was nine years old._______This book is a gift sent from heaven for every reader who likes reading about life during World War II.
This book is also a perfect read for readers who love to immerse themselves into a culinary journey while reading a book.
This is simply a lovely book.
I took a bit more time with it than usual because the beautiful prose is dense and loaded with layers of meaning and emotions.
The change in the time frames sometimes occurs abruptly, mid-chapter, so the reader must pay attention.
It helps if the reader can read French, but it's not absolutely necessary.
It's also a hommage to the wonderful farmhouse and bourgeoisie styles of French cooking.I've previously only read Chocolat (which I enjoyed) by this author, but I liked this much better.
This book seriously dragged me right along to an inevitable (and dark) conclusion.
I kept toggling between enjoying her writing style, loads of unique description and a nice layer of old memories and new experiences for the main character, and being sort of shocked and horrified by the absolute coldness of most of the characters in the story.
Her descriptions of food sound so tempting I am now desperate to take up French cooking (not likely to be a forte of mine since I'm no good at detail-oriented cooking).
I found this book to be quite a slog.
I did finish it, which is why I feel entitled to write this negative review.
The writing is good enough, and the setting (an occupied French village in WWII) compelling enough that I kept going.
But the central relationship between the narrator and her mother is sad and disturbing and ultimately unbelievable.
How can the reader sympathize with someone who would deliberately trigger her mother's migraines using the scent of oranges?
Granted, the mother is no saint, but she wasn't physically abusive either.
There, I feel better now.
Rarely do I find a book whose title is so perfect and so symbolic of the essence of the book!The orange is the forbidden fruit.
The five quarters indicates the parts that make up the whole.
And why five instead of four quarters?
To me it symbolizes something hidden, something not quite right, perhaps a twist!Ah!
The innocence of children!
Transport them back to the perceived safety of a small town during war time where they suffer the loss of a father, the emotional absence of a mother, and fall under the influence of a charismatic soldier and you have the setting for a disaster.
This book turned out much better than I thought it would. It took along time for the story to start. I loved all the food talk though. I could actually end up smelling oranges.
