https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292055.The_Complete_Joy_of_Homebrewing
For the record, I am giving this book 4 stars not because the author is a literary genius, but on the technical merits there in... The author is actually really obnoxious. I assume this is because he is drunk.Again, great information if you can look past the personality of the author.
Amazing utterly amazing is how I would describe the Charlie Papizan's The Complete Joy of Home Brewing.
I have home brewed with a friend and we refer to it as "the bible" as it provides all the information one would need to know in order to start making their own beer at home.
The Joy of Home Brewing also contains various beer recipes such as Barley wines, bocks, and ales, even what is known as cock ale.
This book contains everything one would want to known about home brewing.
If you're not enjoying it, just go buy something off the shelf (or consider a detox program) because going to the trouble might not be your thing.The organization of the book isn't as logical as other--drier--homebrewing books might be, and many of the photos and graphics are definitely dated.
It's about making stuff to drink in the next few weeks (usually) and that method hasn't changed since the ancient Egyptians, so some bell bottoms shouldn't pop your cork either.So, I'd recommend this one to anyone with an interest in the subject, particularly those considering their own homebrew project.
"Relax, don't worry, have a home brew."If you're interested in learning how to home brew, this book is perfect.As a newbie homebrewer, I found this book to be enormously helpful.
Papazian is laid back, humorous, and incredibly knowledgeable.
He stresses that fledgling homebrewers shouldn't worry overmuch about their beer, and offers a ton of great tips and some tasty recipes.
Some home brew books tend to be pedantic or overly prescriptive ("you must not let the hot wort sit for more than a few minutes before cooling, or you will create off flavors" and "if you don't use exactly 2.3 gallons of water you will ruin the alpha acid concentration in your wort")...Papazian's book says none of this nonsense, which I appreciated.
If there is a better book on homebrew, I've never heard of it.
Papazian's book has something for everyone, from the beginner to the master brewer.
The first section gets the newbie off the ground, going through the basics and encouraging people to get a batch going NOW!The next section, for the intermediate brewer, goes into insane detail about all the ingredients that go into beer, and how they effect the end product.Papazian's attitude is laid back and encouraging.
He's constantly imploring the reader to relax and have a homebrew.
This, on the other hand, is an example of great nonfiction.
It wasn't even telling a story, just teaching you things, but it was really really interesting.
The tone is great, and the way Papazian presents information makes it easily understandable even when he's presenting math- and chemistry-related concepts.
(And we all know those are my least-strong suits.) It's a great book because it covers pretty much everything you'd ever need to know to brew your own beer, but it'd even be a good book for anyone who likes to drink beer.
Because really, how much do you actually know about beer besides that it's tasty?
*grin*
Compared to How to Brew, this was less dry and made brewing beer sound even MORE fun. Looking forward to reading the Homebrewer's Companion to try to learn little tidbits.
Awesome beginner to intermediate guide on the art of home brewing beer. Though I haven't used any of the recipes (you can find better ones online or at your local beer supply store), it will help you understand the process and the method behind the madness.
This book is somewhat dated and really does not offer a very good introduction to homebrewing for the novice. John Palmer's "How To Brew" is a far better book.
This was helpful. However: the pictures and the constant reminders from the author to "Have fun!" were a bit much.
I have new equipment, and wanted to read this book again to refresh my memory of the steps to turning ingredients into beer.
The book has a great section for beginner, or for those who just need a refresher.
It also has information for more advanced homebrewers, but techniques for turning grain into malt extract need to be learned from other sources.Ok, I'm thirsty now, so I'm moving onto a store bought beer until my batch currently in fermentation is ready to drink.
I inherited this book from my Father in Law. It was a dog eared copy from the early 90s.
Even if you don't brew a single recipe within, the information on the history of, science behind and excellent tips relating to home brewing is indispensable.
If you get the newer edition I'm sure there won't be as many anachronistic ticks like him telling you to clean your carboys with bleach but this book is a handy reference guide for anyone interested in or far along in a home brewing hobby!

How to Brew: Everything You Need to Know to Brew Beer Right the First Time by John J. Palmer is a much better book. Papazian seems to gloss over many aspects of brewing that I find important. It may be ok if you're just brewing with kits and extracts. This method soon bored me and when I moved to all grain brewing, I found this book useless.
The classic. A great overview of all the parts of the process. Don't worry, relax, have a homebrew :)
Very informative and helpful. This book helped me get through my first batch! Will be ready to drink in about three days!
One of the best home brewing books out there
Fabulous beginners guide. Still use it as a reference on occasion.
Good book for those new to home brewing.
Yes indeed.I began my brewing adventure by first starting to read The Joy of Homebrewing, before even touching anything with home brewing.
Now, being about 10 batches deep, I would recommend to aspiring brewers to first pick up a brewing kit and make a run at it before reading any brewing book.
I’m talking about the beginner who has no science or brewing background.
Overall, this is a great book for beginners with little scientific background.
If you are not the average slum, I would recommend How to Brew as a first book to read.
--- Second time around: ---If I had to pick one, I'd pick Palmer.
My first read was focused on the basics; second time was focused on yeast and getting oriented to all-grain brewing.
As I've mentioned before, it's clear why this is one of the canonical homebrew texts.--- First time around: ---A couple of short notes here:• "Relax.
Did you bring your chemistry degree?")• But (BUT) I tend to over-think these sorts of things before diving into them -- hence reading a book like this before attempting to brew.And/but: very likely a candidate for purchase as the guidebook for my homebrew exploration.(Side note: more didn't read cover-to-cover.
I suppose it isn't fair to review this book before I actually go through my first homebrew experience.
That's nice, but it also means that I feel like I need to "get" all the chemistry or my beer will taste like goat pee.It's got to be tough in a book like this to find the balance of detail to "you can do it!
In general I do feel like I understand beer more now.
I'm sure that when I venture to the homebrew supply shop next weekend and they start asking me about worts and funnels and all sorts of other things I wont feel COMPLETELY overwhelmed.
I'm not going to blame the book for my knowledge base, and I think it does a good job simplifying the process so anyone, regardless of background, can understand what is going on.
The separation of beginner, intermediate and advanced brewing is a great way to structure this type of book, but the first and second repeat each other.
A large portion of the book is filled with recipes and charts that you can find on beer based forums and space is wasted when the author outright requests people send him beer to try.
Beer making shouldn't be stressful and I do enjoy that the author reminds people of that regularly.
As someone with no idea how to brew beer, it was engaging and started with the basics.FeelsFriendly, engaging, conversational.FavoritesThe table in the intermediate section that lists the bare guidelines for each type of beer, allowing you to build your own recipe.Least favoritesThe organization of information is a little unclear in places -- definitely written by an expert who knows all there is to know about home brewing, but has maybe forgotten what it's like to not know anything, if that makes sense.
This book is informative, maybe even invaluable in parts as a guide to home brewing.
Since much of the info presented was essentially a review for me (I've been brewing for nearly a year), I found myself dwelling on the tone and the presentation more than the content at times.
Also, this may be limited to the Kindle edition of the book, but the presentation of lists of statistics about various kinds of beer is awkward.
To learn about the particulars of a single style, a reader would have to look the beer up in one list to find the gravities, and another to learn about the hop/malt contents.
I have read it before and just recently pulled it off my book shelf for round two.
The summer sunshine has put me back into beer brewing mode and this is the BIBLE of home brewing.I started as any other home brewer with a kit and ended up with shitty beer.
So I bought this book and after reading it I literally transformed from novice home brewer to expert.
lol I can brew any of these now and you wouldn't know the difference.Home brewing is a lot like home cooking.
I liked that it had a dumbed-down "first brew" section for newbies.
The second section got into more complicated types of beers, mainly focusing on the foundations of each beer type so you can develop your own, with a few recipes at the end.
Have a homebrew.") kinda stupid, it always seemed to crop up right when I was getting a little anxious.The organization of information is a little unclear in places -- definitely written by an expert who knows all there is to know about home brewing, but has maybe forgotten what it's like to not know anything, if that makes sense.
However, for those who want to brew their own beer this book is an indispensable reference.
As an extremely experienced brew master he relies on his own experience, research and talent to anticipate precisely every question that will come to the reader's mind.
Papazian explains how various ingredients affect the finished beer, and offers advice for what will work best in each step.
He clearly wrote the book with understanding that the reader will want to create his or her own recipes and will want to try established recipes as well.
If you are interested in brewing beer, then you must have this book.
I haven't actually read this book cover to cover, but I've read enough of it to get started in homebrewing.
This book is really a great resource for homebrewers and often considered the favorite and first choice for beginners.
Also important for helping me get started was the Basic Brewing DVD by James Spencer and Steve Wilkes that gives a simple overview of the process of extract brewing.
If not for that DVD, I might still be reading without having the confidence to actually brew a batch.Additional online resources that I've found VERY important are the great forums at homebrewtalk.com as well as the Basic Brewing podcasts.
A great book to understand the reasons that beer is brewed a certain way or with certain ingredients. An easy read with a bit of humor. About a third of the book is recipes and glossaries, etc, that don't actually need to be read.
