https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7664041-inheritance
I actually happened to love this book, but I'm just a tad mad at the ending at the moment.
(view spoiler)[ You wrote four MONSOROUS TOMES of creative genuis, and you couldn't even SPARE A SENTENCE for Eragon and Arya!
I CAN'T EVEN COMPARE IT TO ANYTHING BECAUSE YOU DIDN'T PUT ANY ERAGON/ARYA ROMANCE IN THERE!And then you had the AUDACITY, to go and hint at the Nasuada/Murtagh romance and then PULL IT OUT FROM RIGHT UNDER OUR NOSES!
To be honest I couldn't help but love every single damn page of that stupid story- but to me the ending just wasn't right!
Why does everything have to be so hard? [Eragon] wondered. Because, said Saphira, everyone wants to eat, but no one wants to be eaten. This book makes my heart happy.Eragon has graduated from isolated farmboy to savior of the kingdom. Along the way, he's faced trials, tribulations and terror. He's fought the shade, the Ra'zac, Murtagh and more. All that's left is to defeat King Galbatorix. Easier said than done.The king has held his long reign through more than sheer luck. He's stockpiled unima
This book makes my heart happy.Eragon has graduated from isolated farmboy to savior of the kingdom.
For context - I first read this series in middle school and absolutely adored it.Now, that I'm 25, I've decided to go for a reread - all the while crossing my fingers that I still love it (am I the only one who gets scared by rereads?
I love at the hints of Nasuada and Murtagh - that pairing completely blindsided me at first but it developed so slowly and naturally that I am just crossing my fingers that there will be a later book that wraps up that story line.And honestly, I wasby the lack of Eragon and Arya.
Or better yet, not at all, allowing the characters to use their own strength to triumph in the end rather than relying on magical artifacts that basically fall out of the freaking sky into their hands.After that considerably bloated section of filler, the book's actual plot begins with the siege of Dras-Leona, where Murtagh and Thorn have arrived in defense.
Rather than sending this unfinished mess back to the author with notes saying 70% of this is irrelevant and needs to be dropped completely or developed further to the point that it is relevant, she basically spent the entire time squeeing over it like an excited fangirl.
There will be an epic battle between Eragon and Saphira, and Galbatorix and his dragon, whose winner will be decided by a small factor that seemed irrelevant but really was important What I wonder...
*Update* I jusrt re-read the second book and it says that she is a few years older than Eragon.
When Eragon and Saphira are walking to Nasuda's tent in Brisinger, they come across Angela, who asks them to bless two travelers, an older woman and a young girl just becoming an adult.
When Eragon asks for their names, the older woman says she prefers for him not to know.
I can't tell you how much I squirmed in my chair and made faces; I even got a bad taste in my mouth and shrieked out loud in horror.However, among all of the chaos of just plain badly-written battle scenes (where Paolini attempts to be like Michael Cadnum and throws in gore, which doesn't succeed; there is a proper way to write gory scenes, and he didn't do it), looonngggg nightly character routines (we get to read about Eragon's regular spelling sessions!), and side travels that shouldn't take as much time as they do, the Reader is finally presented with a character!
No one could recover from the giant snails, maggots, fingernails, and chest hair - or the fact that the book ends a good seven times.

I must admit this has been a tough series for me.
Paolini creates a deeply intricate fantasy world filled with its own politics, magic and villainy.
I loved this world and everything in it - from the majestic dragons, mysterious elves, aggressive Urgals and tough dwarves.
There were views from the different tribes that I didn't understand and almost disliked but that just reinforced the idea that it is a broad world, like our own but also nothing like it.
Overall a beautiful, well constructed fantasy world that I am sad to leave behind.
I REALLY enjoyed how the finale came about, and how everything led up to this. Everything felt well deserved, and there was plenty of closure. The climax came about in a unique and fascinating way. BUT, the first half of this book dragged on longer than it needed to in my opinion.This is a truly epic series. If you love heroic quests with amazing dragons, interesting magic systems, and little romance, this is definitely one to check out!
It's torture.I have so many predictions about what's going to happen, I couldn't list them all here if I wanted to.
But the main ones are:- Eragon ends up with Arya...
I don't really like her but it would be kinda weird if Christopher Paolini threw in a new girl he falls in love with, in the last book.- Murtagh is going to end up being good!
You know it's going to happen.
- Arya is probably going to be the new dragon rider *sigh* I don't really like this but it's probably going to happen.
Then he dragon can mate with Saphira and Arya and Eragon can be together.
Riordan paced the book perfectly, so it never feels like some new, completely unfeasible stretch is being made to end the series.
I believe this series shall endure for a long time.And don't forget, Paolini still has years of writing ahead of him, and in the acknowledgments he mentioned possibly returning to Alagaesia.
Of course, even if the characters we love are never mentioned, I would still eagerly embark on any new tale Paolini presents.
With Inheritance, he has proved himself a truly amazing author, and concluded a riveting tale begun so many years ago.Keep writing, Paolini, and Sé onr sverdar sitja hvass!
Ohgods. The dreaded Green Brick's actually lurking out there now. And some incredibly masochistic part of myself desires to find out whether it's as horrible as the prequels. Oh Paolini, why do you have to insist on being the Stephanie Meyer of "high fantasy"?
Another thing that was pretty crappy: there are far too many chapters about Roran.
Okay.Some more things that bothered me (I'll keep adding onto the review as I think of them): Firnen.
The badass green dragon, the one who you see on the cover of this novel, so he MUST be important, right??
The badass green dragon who shows up for the last 50 pages of the novel and does absolutely NOTHING except make sweet, sweet love to Saphira while Eragon and Arya watch uncomfortably, presumably experiencing every sweet second of it through their psychic epic mind connections.
You won't be disappointed with her parts in the book (my opinion, some of the best parts), but Paolini dangles this mysterious character in our face for three books and gives us NOTHING concrete at the end.
It's a matter of opinion; I think some people will love this book, others (like me) will think it's ok but that it could have been better, and others will absolutely hate it.
I'm not really difficult to please, so it's no surprise that I find myself deeply attached to some of the characters, Roran and Murtagh more than the others, but I also realize that this series could be much, much better had Christopher Paolini written the book with a different style and approach.If you read the book without stopping, merely being a spectator focused on the story and its events, you might not notice a lot of things are off, or maybe you'll notice them but you'll tolerate them.Let's talk about the dragon Saphira's perspective: It's adorable and it is NOT a good thing!
Anyone else wondering why he hasn't finished the freaking book yet?
I cannot begin to describe my love for the protagonist, Eragon, who is by far my favorite male lead character.
Paolini created a character and managed to make us grasp Eragon's entity.
This series had so many aspects to the things and it may have sometimes grown boring but that doesn't make it any less perfect.I got to know to many characters, I grew to love many characters and in each of them I find a little bit of myself and for that I'm grateful to Paolini.
'Inheritance' is the best book in 'Inheritance Cycle' series.Overall, compare these four books, 'Eragon', 'Eldest', 'Brisingr' and Inheritance' in 'Inheritance Cycle' series the last two books were lot better than the first two books. 'Eragon' and 'Eldest' were weakness compare to 'Brisingr' and 'Inheritance'.
Old review when the prospective title was Shur'tugal:Title fail.
Brisingr was hard enough, this is suicide.
Only the hardcore fans (like me) will even bother to learn how to pronounce the title.
"Empire" would have been a great title.New review:"Inheritance" is a GREAT title :) First of all, it's a pronounceable, English word, and second, it will actually help us remember what the proper name of the series is!
lol And the cover is just Gorgeous!
:)Looking forward to reading it :)____________Read it, loved it.
Hope we get to see more of the dragons!
There is still a lot of story to be told!
The romantic in me was dying at the end of this. Arya! Still it was a very satisfying conclusion to the series and I feel so awed by what Chris Paolini has been able to accomplish. The language alone for all the different cultures included in the book must have taken an incredible amount of work. My favorite parts of this book were the dragon eggs, the green dragon, the giant snail creatures, and Murtagh. I have a soft spot for him and hope he finds happiness.

What the hell is taking so long? Wasn't this gonna be part of the third book anyway?All his die-hard 5th grade fans will have grown up and hate reading by the time this is released.
Ένα τέλος αντάξιο της τετραλογίας. Δεν περίμενα τίποτα λιγότερο και τίποτα περίσσότερο. Καταπληκτική σειρά.
It was better than I expected and then some. The good stuff: 1. An admirable end to the trilogy cycle, with a fair amount of action, intrigue, magic and dragons.2. The epic battle at Uru'baen was skillfully done and kept me at the edge of my seat. 3. Loved both Murtagh's and Nasuada's storyline.4. Paolini's writing has picked up immensely; there was never a dull moment in the book - everybody was always on the move.5. I'm glad the focus was more on Eragon and Saphira in the book. It was getting
1. An admirable end to the trilogy cycle, with a fair amount of action, intrigue, magic and dragons.2.
Paolini's writing has picked up immensely; there was never a dull moment in the book - everybody was always on the move.5.
I'm glad the focus was more on Eragon and Saphira in the book.
(view spoiler)[The whole deal with the hidden dragon eggs seemed like a deus ex machina to me.
There wasn't enough about Angela in the book to my liking.
(view spoiler)[I kind of found it hard to believe that Galbotorix could be so easily defeated.
Final Review: I think out of all four books, I did like this one perhaps the most.
It was unnecessary for Eragon to live the rest of his life in partial isolation just to train the new riders and dragons.
I think Paolini thought to copy Tolkien a little too much and did not have a strong point to back up his ending.Initial Speculation: Okay, does it really say the title is Shur'tugal and that it will come out in 2011?
It's been a huge wait for a story that I think is too long and full of unnecessary fillers.
It’s like he gets overwhelmed and doesn’t know how to convey something, so he just skips it altogether.He also completely wastes prime storytelling opportunities, and deflates conflict and tension most of the time that he could use to make his story more compelling.
Oh well?” It’s the difference between a writer telling you THIS IS IMPORTANT and you feeling its importance for yourself without having to be told.Almost the whole book is like that.To my surprise, though, as it neared the end, I found myself hooked again by the story.
Reto 2015: terminar libros empezados hace mucho.★★: Pérdida de tiempo/dinero. Menos mal que me gusta el género, si no esto habría sido un suicidio.Dejemos una premisa sentada:Paolini, sos una mierda para las relaciones románticas literarias, así que si vas a ser tan mierda, directamente no pongás ni siquiera una insinuación de romance, ¿entendido? *aparecen todos los miembros de la mafia por detrás de mis hombros* ¿ENTENDIDO?*Con eso dicho, prosigo: ★LOS PROS •Tiene figuras femeninas fuertes, lo
(hide spoiler)] La adoro por todo lo que representa: una líder, una mujer inteligente, objetiva y con los pies sobre la tierra.•Murtagh es, sin duda, uno de sus mejores personajes, y no pienso ocultar el fangirleo que siento por él.
Por favor...Los capítulos en los que Eragon se enfrenta a él (no me digan que esto es un spoiler, es más obvio que el odio que le tengo a este libro) carecen de emoción o siquiera chispa.
(view spoiler)[Explíquenme para qué Galbatorix los puso a luchar a Murtagh y a Eragon, ¿solo porque es obvio que debía haber un enfrentamiento entre estos dos hermanos?
Eragon has had 0 reason to be happy in 4 books.
I know I said I had 100 reasons and I have many more but I just am so upset that I don't care enough to talk about them all, but yeah this one is my biggest problem with this ending.
Saphira and Eragon moments are what made this book series for me.
We get no purpose other than their relationship disappears, Eragon is left to deal with everything alone and they don't even SPEAK for the entire end of the book.
Eragon went along with exactly as Angela's prophecy said.
The fight to defeat Galbie was Boring!(with capital B) IT was like paolini had run out of things to write, which I guess he had as this was an extra book in what was going to be a trilogy.
Though the parts about Nasuada's kidnapping were a bit interesting(the tortures and all) and I think she will make a good queen..maybe is Murtagh changed his mind, he would make a good king too but I guess we'll never know.
Maybe it's just me, or maybe authors are going completely nuts, editors aren't doing their jobs, and people are willing to pay more for a long book?
That's why we call published authors "professionals" and pay them, right?How weird that after 4 books, they finally beat the bad guy, and there is still 200 pages of "stuff" to say.
In summary, cool fantasy elements and gripping battle scenes, punctuated by numbingly long stretches of "flying around on dragons" and general angst.
I think I'm burned out on fantasy novels and anything written recently that's over 300 pages.
I was unsure whether or not I would even read the final volume.As it goes, I did decide to read the concluding book to the Cycle, and I'm glad I did.Inheritance begins after the Battle of Feinster, with the Varden deciding to march upon Urû'baen and finally confront Galbatorix.
While the march takes a long time, there's a lot of different things going on between the beginning and the end.
I had wished for something else in the final book, but it is what it is, and puts a fitting end on the story.-----*As a rule, I generally dislike picking on an author's writing style.
