https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6256913-the-house-without-windows
This very odd little story of a girl who runs away into the forest meadows to become one with nature was written by a homeschooled young girl as a gift for her parents.
Not once does she express any concern over what might become of them.If a real person behaved like Eepersip I would start thinking of possible personality disorders.
The bulk of it is flowery (no pun intended) descriptions of the beauties of nature, heavy on the flowers and butterflies.
One can hardly help rooting for Eepersip to escape from their ham-handed attempts to capture her, but her flight into unreal nature is terribly troubling as well.It was certainly...
Based on a lost manuscript written when Ms. Follett was nine years old, she rewrote it from memory at the age of twelve and was published and acclaimed by the age of thirteen.
In some ways the keyboard may reflect the only way that a written record can be created for the experience of the child's world.
“Suddenly, she heard a sound--the magical sound of the waves as they crashed on the rocks.
In they would come, pounding, roaring, breaking upon the shore.
The foam and spume would fly back and leap up into the air.
Everything sounded strange--stranger than anything Eepersip had ever heard.
No words can describe what she imagined.
She thought ‘Here I am; I see it; you don’t need to tell me about it!’ And then she realized she was alone, knowing in her own mind what it was like, yet unable to stop wishing that she could describe the hollow, ringing sound.
This book was a bit disturbing.A young girl leaves her parents to go live in the woods. She avoids them and society at all costs to be on her own. Later on she finds out she has a sister and tries to lure her away from her parents as well.That's twisted on some level. Really.
A lovely little story about a (non-human) girl who runs away into the meadows to become one with nature was, written by a homeschooled 13 year old. It was impossible to refrain from thinking of the author's mysterious fate when reading this - the author became depressed and left home at the age of 25, with just $30 in her pocket, only to never be seen again. It was certainly different, but I quite enjoyed this story.
Eepersip runs away from her parents to live in a meadow, befriend deer and a chipmunk, butterflies and fireflies.
The sorts of things that would concern grown-ups who run away to live in the wild never trouble the little girl: food, finding clothing, shelter, staying warm.
She’s so filled with joy living among the wild creatures and being free in nature she has no thought for anything else.
I don’t know how common a fantasy this is for little girls, but I’m sure at some point I could have readily identified with Eepersip and her desire to live as a fairy, in full harmony with nature.
It's hard to rate because the story of the story is so incredible that it overwhelms any critique in my mind. It gets repetitive near the end of book 1, but aside from that the combination of genuinely lush prose, intoxicating innocence, and the heartbreaking but awe-inspiring realization that it was all written by a very lonely, very talented young girl make it a singular and hypnotic experience. Every reader should read the story of Barbara Follett and then read this short and etherial opus.
About a girl who disappears into the forest.A bit of an unsettling book as the author disappeared mysteriously herself....
i read this book when i was 11 years old.
it's really hard to describe this book but if you can find a copy, read it.
i hope she was able to be free like the character in her story...Judging from some of the reviews by people who don't get it or are underwhelmed by the story, i can honestly say that I am glad i read it as a child without the filters that slam into place as we get older.
i identified with her on so many levels as i believe only a child really can.
It is honestly impressive that Barbara Newhall Follett wrote this novel at such a young age, and that her vocabulary was quite broad for a child. The concept, along with the character names, is quite creative, but then it is a fantasy. However, as you read through it it is quite clear that this is a story told by a child, and so despite the fancy wording it has a very simple plot which is rather repetitive and without a lot of overall direction. I personally would give this book 2.5 stars, but not much more than that.
Enchanting, whimsical, and full of expressive delightful details, especially for the child-age of the author at the time. A window into the mind of a child's world through her eyes.Read for personal research and pleasure. I found this work of immense interest.I found this book's contents helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.Overall, this work is also a good resource for the researcher and enthusiast.
First Line: “In a little brown shingled cottage on one of the foothills of Mount Varcrobis, there lived with her father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. Eigleen, a little girl named Eepersip.” The author herself Barbara Newhall Follett had an interesting life.
The House Without Windows is a book about Eepersip’s exploration into the wild and her reverence of it.
(Or, as Follett calls it The House Without Windows)(view spoiler)[The Good:Fleuriss - She wasn’t like her older sister and showed apprehension in being wild and living on her own.
Enthusiasm - The reader can tell by reading this how much in love Follett is with trees, flowers, animals, nature and the like.
when there was a carpet so much lovelier of green grass or of white sand--and no windows to be curtained!"In nature, however:"How light it was, with all the world a window, instead of those silly little peep-holes fringed about!
Oh, nothing in a house could compare with the world of light that Eepersip lived in!" Follett's protagonist's attention to and immersion in nature is also an attention to and immersion in the present moment, reminding me of Richard Jefferies' comment in his autobiography, The Story of My Heart, that, “It is eternity now.
So I don't think we should read too much into Eepersip's disconnectedness from others.
It tells the story of Eepersip, a young girl who runs away from her mother and father to live in the forest and make friends with the animals.
So far, so fairytale, right?It’s particularly odd, though, because it was written by a young girl.
Apparently a young girl with one hell of a talent for daydreaming.
It’s absolutely true that if you’re interested in how the imagination of children develops, then this is probably a must-read.So I should clarify that this is my failing, but I couldn’t enjoy the book.
I kept reading passages and thinking things like “Oh for God’s sake, shut up Eepersip.
The story itself reminds me of the old paintings you see of children frolicking in meadows or forest scenes.
It is hard not to read Eepersip a analog of the author herself, which adds to the sadness of it all; the need for escape, the, perhaps, feeling of isolation.
Eepersip exists in a state of ecstasy with the flora and the wildlife.
Appropriately, these strengths of the story lie in the description of these elements.
The other characters do not feel real, nor do they act so.
The adults don't have adult emotions, but considering who the author is, this is something that is objectionable.
I learned about Barbara Newhall Follett from an article my friend sent me; the same friend also sent this link with the free version of her first book.
What especially strikes me is how adverse the main character, Eepersip, is to interacting with others: none of the connections she makes (even with her sister) is very deep, and she doesn't think about others when she abandons them.
We only have sensual descriptions of nature, which with the lack of a plot, leave only a fleeting impression.
Honestly, I really don't know what to say about this book. It is what it is: a book written by a bored little girl about things you would expect a little girl to write about. It's a fairytale. Like most fairy/folk stories, it's a bit strange. She uses ALOT of floral imagery; there's some magic involved, it's a very short read and very easy. She runs off to the forest to get away from her parents which is an odd sort of foreshadowing because she also disappears in real life. http://www.the-line-up.com/barbara-ne...
How hard is it to rate this book. I found it at a secondhand bookstore and was drawn to it... then when I read the back cover I knew I had to read it. You can not really read the story without thinking about the amazing story behind this little author. It is quite amazing, yet very descriptive of nature's details. It is fairytale like, and so dreamy. A bit odd as well perhaps. There was a little note inside the book that asks to leave the book somewhere so it could disappear just like Eepersips, just like Barbara...
While not a great book, that fact that it was written by an 12 year old girl is remarkable. Very much worth a read. It can be downloaded here: https://sites.google.com/site/thehous...
a delightful, whimsical story, written from the perspective of a child. A simple, easy read: Well worth the time.
Looking to find this book as an e-book.
Één lange beschrijving van fauna en flora.
I thought this was going to be a horror like Room (good book, horrific situation) but it was delightful.
