https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1775684.Tarzan_and_the_Castaways
This is a cracker of a read. The story pops along to one event after another, and the characters are vivid. It was written quite a while ago now, and it shows, however it is fast becoming an historical document, giving us a window into the recent past. Not perhaps one of the greatest Tarzan books, yet riveting and entertaining.
This last of the published ERB Tarzan novels combines three short stories in one volume.
Like all ERB's stories, he creates secondary characters that intrigue and capture the reader.
Things get worse for the cast when they crash upon the rocks of an island inhabited by the offspring of an ancient Mayan civilization."Tarzan and the Champion" has Tarzan cross paths with a reckless hunter who came to Africa to collect trophies.
Finally, the third and final story in this book is "Tarzan and the Jungle Murders." It's a quickly unfolding tale told in partial flashbacks in different parts of the world, all culminating in the search for the survivors of two plane crashes in Tarzan's jungle.
After many, many years, I have finally finished all of the Tarzan books written by Burroughs.
This final volume is a posthumous fix-up of three novelettes first published in the 1940s.
It is not close to the best Tarzan book, but is better than many of the latter novels.
It starts with a trope Burroughs used several times: Tarzan is hit on the head rendering him unable to speak or understand anything more than his ape language.
The ending of the book is rushed and somewhat anticlimactic, but we could’ve done worse than end the tales of Tarzan here.
A posthumous publication edited and altered by a later writer.
The very last book of the Tarzan series.
The three stories are as follows.1) Tarzan and the Champion.
Fave scene: Melton finding the overturned truck.2) Tarzan and the Jungle Murders.
A murder mystery for Tarzan to solve.
Then after the three find and join a passing safari, there is two more murders and Tarzan is the convenient suspect.
Tarzan is marooned: again, like in the third book ‘Beasts of Tarzan”.
And what a journey for the Mayans.
I did really like this last story though.
Fave scenes: evacuating the ship and Tarzan swimming in the cenote.
Just as we know that a blow to the head will induce temporary amnesia (or aphasia) or that half the men in Europe look exactly like Tarzan, we know that a ship traveling to or from Africa will eventually be taken over by pirates or mutineers.
Maybe ERB should have written more short stories because this forced him to focus on small moments and not have long drawn-out rescues, recaptures, and more rescues.
sad, only 2 more to go (
I had hopes for this book at the beginning, but it didn't offer anything new in the end. The same old story of a lost civilization !. But it was good to see few tigers for a change. For that, I give one extra star !. We can see how Edgar Rice Burroughs struggled in this last Tarzan adventure with lack of imaginations. This series should have ended from the 9th book in my opinion.
Three late Tarzan stories all of which saw publication in the pulp magazines of the day, but weren't collected in book form until long after Burroughs' death.
The second a fairly snappy short story "Tarzan and the champion" is probably the best and certainly shortest (this may be a contributing factor) piece in the collection, it features an uncouth champion boxer on a big game hunt who gets his comeuppance.
The final story Tarzan and jungle murders has the apeman as an amateur detective and might have been fun if Burroughs had any skill in this line as it is the story relies on coincidence and lacks any clues that the reader might spot.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Tarzan and the Castaways (Tarzan #25) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1941) (Fiction). This is three short stories combined into one volume. In the first story, Tarzan stumbles onto a lost Mayan civilization deep in the jungle. In the second story, Tarzan confronts an American prizefighter who has come to Africa to hunt. Finally, in the third tale Tarzan uses his knowledge of jungle lore to solve a murder mystery. My rating; 7/10, finished 1973.
The author closes the Tarzan series with an adventure in the Pacific. Tarzan had been amnesiac and captured for display as a wild man in a menagerie. When his memory returns, he saves the people on the boat with him and all is well. Maya descendants were the antagonists.
This is a short read, but classic Tarzan. Aside from the normal groups of people running around in the jungle and a lost civilization, the true joy of this book is an opinionated English woman who serves as a foil for Tarzan's wit. There are some wonderful comments in this novel about human kind.
Tarzan Book 24
This book was entertaining, and quite stupid at the same time.
A really GREAT tale!
read some time in 1987
