https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16116268-16-lighthouse-road
She is known as the book whisperer.She willingly lugged the first 6 of this series – amongst probably 20 others – up to my city on public transport to lend me these books, and others, with her reading friends.
I keep saying my reading friends are lovely..It’s such a sweet story – I can see the beginning of a very easy going series.
Things fall into place very easily here!Sometimes I got an English feel as I read along, but it’s actually set in Washington.
Sometimes only Debbie will do.
I love Debbie Macomber!
My favorite characters are always "les femmes d'un certain âge".
They're always doing this thing where they run back and forth to their dude like 25 times before they finally give into their burning lust and settle down for a life of love and commitment (Kandice, you know what I'm taking about here, right?).
The "certain âge" ladies seem to keep it together a bit better.
I especially liked Grace's story line.
I'm dying to know what happened to Tom!
Here's another 5 stars for my fairy god author, Debbie Macomber!
We open with a day in Olivia's courtroom where she's hearing a petition from a young married couple who want to dissolve a prenuptial agreement so they can get a divorce.Right away, we're plunged into the lives of Olivia and her mother Charlotte, her best friend Grace and her husband Dan, Olivia's daughters Maryellen and Justine, Jack Griffin, and Cecelia and Ian Randall.
:) She's a strong woman who doesn't back down and isn't afraid to speak her mind if she needs to.Not going to go through the list of everyone in here since I'm tired haha, but I loved em all (except for a certain...
I read this right after finishing Insurgent and it was perfect to clear my mind and lighten the mood.There are so many characters and stories told in this book and Macomber does an excellent job with each one.
Macomber has such a way of making you love her characters and making you wish you could live in Cedar Cove and have friendships with these people yourself.This one is a little difficult to review because of the many different story lines, but if you enjoy a light adult contemporary with family, romance, friendships, and betrayls, I definitely recommend 16 Lighthouse Road.
1'5 estrellitas generosa y somnolientamente otorgadas
Wow. I forgot how back in the day Debbie Macomber would have love scenes in her books.
I liked that Macomber tackles real issues in this book (Cecilia and Ian are divorcing after the death of their newborn daughter, Jack is a recovering alcoholic).
The kick off to book #1 is that Olivia makes a controversial decision concerning the divorce of Ian and Cecilia which causes Jack Griffin to write about her.
But Macomber has them writing emails (which are shown in this book) and you can see that Ian still loves his wife and wishes he had been there for her when they lost their child.
Debbie Macomber has created a memorable place full of heartwarming people.16 Lighthouse Road is the home of Olivia Lockhart.
A woman who's heart is in the right place and loves to share her opinion.Justine is Olivia's daughter.
Grace is Olivia's best friend.
It is a book for anyone who loves a series where you can be drawn in and feel like you are really in a small town watching the people there.
I know this is now started as a series on Hallmark Channel.
Who knows...maybe some channel in Holland or England will pick this series up...
I think those two resonated with me the most because when I was a Sergeant in the Army, I saw a lot of young couples going through the same thing (not exactly the death of a child, but all the others) while trying to adjust and fit into a military life.
I saw girls exactly like her (heck I had soldiers under me who were like her) when I was in the military.16 LIGHTHOUSE ROAD has an interesting cast of characters.
16 LIGHTHOUSE ROAD was the book I picked up when I didn't have another book handy to read.While I loved the writing and characters, I missed not having a main character or plot thread to focus on.
Historia como dice el título de segundas oportunidades, demasiado coral, en la que las relaciones de los personajes pasan sin pena ni gloria como en un telefilm dominical. Los conflictos se mantienen porque si, no hay una razón de peso que las justifique y sin un gran desarrollo. La autora se limita a contarnos situaciones diarias, con unos personajes que tampoco provocan ningún interés o sentimiento en el lector, solo indiferencia. Historia demasiado plana, sin chispa y fácilmente olvidable.
This type of light, contemporary romance isn't my normal type of reading material but, after stumbling upon and enjoying the Cedar Cove television series on the Hallmark Channel and then discovering it had been cancelled, I decided to get a copy of 16 Lighthouse Road from the library.
There are some differences in characters and events, mostly minor but the good nature and quaint atmosphere of the book are evident in the television series so I have hope of getting some closure.The book follows a group of characters who live in a small town in Washington state called Cedar Cove.
Note: Narrator Sandra Burr does a good job on all the various voices necessary for the first in this small-town series.I selected this book to fulfill a “Featured Author” challenge read.
After finishing this sweet story, I would say I’m in the A category: Would definitely look at her other books, since I've enjoyed this one very much.This is a nice story, with realistic dialogue and relationship situations.
Sometimes I need to cleanse my pallet after all the massive amounts of darker romances out there.Yup, I’ll definitely listen to the next one, 204 Rosewood Lane, in Ms. Macomber’s quaint Cedar Cove series if only to...(view spoiler)[to find out what happened to the vanished husband!
Well, my MIL has a tendency to go on and on for hours at a time telling stories about her neighbors, fellow church members, etc...
Macomber doesn't just tell the story of one couple here; We get several plotlines involving a relatively large cast of characters.
However, while we get the details of their lives and situations to an extent, not much time is spent getting to know them well as people.
This makes the book seem like a series of random vignettes giving the reader little peeks into the lives of complete strangers.
I enjoyed reading this book so much that I finished it in 2 days!
This is the first book in the Cedar Cove Series and I am super delighted that I finally got around to reading it!.
I loved the town of Cedar Cove and the residents in it!
I also loved that the storyline had Navy in it!
Being a Navy Wife myself, I can relate somewhat to the deployment issues Cecilia had to face when Ian would leave on the ship.
I can't wait to read the rest of this series very very soon!
Wonderful emotional story of love,betrayal,pain,loss,friendships,confusions,anger and second chances.Each character's emotion was brought out so beautifully.I was really happy Cecelia-Ian both did not throw away their marriage the second chance that they got they made an effort and got their HEA,Grace my heart goes out to her after 35 years of marriage such loneliness pain anger but looking forward to see why Dan went away,Olivia glad she and Jack cleared out their misunderstanding.Looking forward to read second book of Cedar CoveOverall a good read
To be fair she goes through something horrendous that would age anyone but she sounds just like our family matriarch who is 70 odd and oh my goodness annoyed the heart and soul out of me.
Christ on a bike I like a bit of the miscommunication trope but how can a whole town be suffering from the same thing?
Pain and suffering followed by what feels like non stop misunderstanding, heartache and death be a way of making Tara, who is already a bit too fond of the vino, all the more fond of it.
When I'm in the mood for a straightforward romance with warm feelings of home, I now reach for one of Debbie's books.16 Lighthouse Road is my first foray into the lives of Judge Olivia, her mother Charlotte, and her selection of friends and family.
I was very happy with the audio recording and the voice work done by Sandra Burr and the story was everything you should expect from Debbie.The character Olivia is very interesting and as the story goes on you want to see more and more into her past and her future.
I really want to know what happens to her and her husband.Fans of Debbie and sweet contemporaries, will love 16 Lighthouse Road.
I have many issues with this one.
The only reason it is a 3 starrer and not 2 stars is I finished it rather fast and Debbie Macomber happens to be one of my favourite authors.
The storytelling was good but the story or rather the characters fell flat.
Grace's story was incomplete and all wrong.
(view spoiler) And I was tired of Cecilia and her hubby's incessant tifftaffs over nothing.Basically I don't like books with incomplete endings stating the reason that it's part of a series.
And I loved the Blossom Street books so much.
Wow I have just finished reading this book for the second time ! I would happily give it 6 stars if it was possible.I found I could really relate to all the characters and liked them all too. Based on 4 families and 5 pairs of characters it was a pure delight to read.
Miniseries: A Cedar Cove NovelCategory: Contemporary RomanceWhat do you think about the new cover? Are you excited it will be on TV?
I recently binged watched the show and then found out it was based on books. I actually like both because of their differences. Although I am a little miffed I won't have answers to some questions because they don't exist in the books.
16 LIGHTHOUSE ROAD, the first novel included in the Cedar Cove series, is the first novel that I have ever read by Debbie Macomber.
Also, within the pages of 16 LIGHTHOUSE ROAD, I found the town of Cedar Cove, Washington, to be a delightful, picturesque, waterfront community filled with numerous interesting people.
As a result of Debbie Macomber painting beautiful descriptions of Cedar Cove in the background, I found myself becoming attached to each of the principal characters from the first time that he/she was introduced into the plot of 16 LIGHTHOUSE ROAD.
There are things that are glossed over, events that are mentioned, but then skipped, and the book jumps forward in time a week and sometimes a month.As far as the characters go: -I liked Olivia as much as I did in the TV series and I had no problem picturing Andie McDowell as I read the book.-I found Jack to be a bit wittier in the book and I liked him better than the Jack on the TV series.-Justine was hard to like for a while and I didn't think her relationship with Warren really made any sense.
http://ceceliadowdy.com/blog/2013/12/...16 Lighthouse Road is book #1 in the famous Cedar Cove series.
Military duties greatly affected Cecilia and Ian’s lives, making you wonder if the commanders in the military are fit to make familial decisions for their subordinates.I enjoyed reading about all of the characters and I can understand why this was made into a series.
But, I didn’t have that problem with this novel.I enjoyed the Cedar Cove setting because it was refreshing.
I enjoy reading small town stories where people care about one another.- See more at: http://ceceliadowdy.com/blog/2013/12/...
I enjoy Macomber's works in general, but this one had one huge flaw that I simply could not understand - the prenuptial agreement/divorce issue between two of the main characters.
Macomber should have done her homework and found a better way to present this issue.
It was all just ridiculous and it irritated me that Macomber used such a crazy plot line to keep the characters together.
She would have been better off having them argue over the debts or creating an actual issue for them to argue over to keep the divorce from moving forward.
This is not a typical Macomber book.
She had too many main characters with active storylines.
I didn't care about any of the characters til halfway into the book.
only half of the storylines were wrapped up, so just like a tv show, it's....
Since I already own the series and I do want to know what happened to Dan I'll keep reading but I don't think this measured up to Macomber's standards.
And with so many characters in this book either divorced or thinking about it, it's hard to call this a romance novel, which is what it's classified as.
This is my new night time reading series. Not violent. Not too much action or drama. Just like a sweet Hallmark movie to send me off to sleep!
From the synopsis I thought this was going to be a series that I’d enjoy.
I didn’t give up though and gave Judge Olivia Lockhart, her daughter Justine, her mother Charlotte, and her friend Grace Sherman a chance.
Out of all of them, I think I liked Grace best.
As for Cecelia, I could definitely not relate to her, or to her husband Ian. They gave up on each other so fast when the book started, I was a bit disappointed.
In general, the story-lines of the more mature, older women were better scripted.I’m not sure yet if I’ll continue this series.
Pretty interesting book, when I started reading it and learned about the characters I wasn't very excited about it since the main characters are divorced who are about 50 years old.I thought it was going to be a very very boring story about old people... it wasn't quite that.There were several main stories and they all were developed aside from each other but also connected since everybody lives in Cedar Cove).I'll be reading the next one soon since I am curious about Dan.
I enjoyed reading this book. It's the first book I've read by Macomber, it was recommended to me by the peolpe at my favorite used book store. Said to be be clean and fun. The first in this series with many other books and series to read. Definately a great recommendation. It is fun to read a little slow paced in parts but interesting at the same time. I will read the rest of the series as I come to find them at the library or used book store.
LoveI am an adamant lover of this tv show, so I figured I would give the books a try. Needless to say, I am not disappointed by my choice! The story was wonderful. Full of light drama and loads of humor. Not full of sex - which is sometimes refreshing anymore- but an all around family tale. I will definitely be reading more.
