https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/523795.The_Last_Good_Kiss
One of the best mysteries of all time. Contains cynicism and good-humor, elegiac sadness, a lot of drinking, a small bit of love and--oh yeah--a damn good plot and enough violence to keep you awake. And best of all, the voice of the detective narrator: charming, infuriating, and ultimately reliable C.W. Sughrue. If Sam Peckinpah wrote mysteries, they would be like this.
But get that quirk.8) He will have no friends and especially no girlfriend - if he had a girlfriend then he'd be cheating when he shags the five women he encounters during the story, and we do not want our readers thinking our hero has no morals.
He is a very moral guy.9) He will drink so much during the course of all this that an actual human being would have been hospitalised by page 35.10) He seems as the story starts to have no cases on the go, nothing is doing at all.
Crumley followed Hugo’s advice and was obviously inspired (Crumley acknowledges Chandler’s strong influence) as he went on to write his own first-rate detective fiction, a string of books rightly regarded as first-rate literature.TUG AT OUR HEARTSTRINGS – Rosie sits on the front steps of her bar and tells Sughrue all about how her long lost baby girl, Betty Sue Flowers, ran away as a high schooler ten years ago.
James Crumley died last year, and if there were any justice, he'd be alive today and recognized as one of the great modern crime writers while Dan Brown would have had his guts chewed out by weasels and be buried in a pauper's grave instead of getting rich off The Da Vinci Code.
Tough guy fiction that also pondered the real cost of violence with huge quantities of alcohol and drugs and a lot of melancholy and black humor were what Crumley specialized in and this is a great example of it.C.W. Sughrue (one of two main characters Crumley used)is a private detective who was hired to find a drunken writer on a binge.
One of those books that showed up just at the right time in my life.I enjoyed this book so much it almost hurt. It changed my reading patterns, and what I read. I can't say enough good stuff about this book.This copy is signed by the author.
Wonderful, first-class, extraordinary.Nice down-home prose here, echoing a softly forlorn past, an homage to The Grapes of Wrath:This was the place, the place I would have come on my own wandering binge, come here and lodged like a marble in a crack, this place, a haven for California Okies and exiled Texans, a home for country folk lately dispossessed, their eyes so empty of hope that they reﬂect hot, windy plains, spare, almost Biblical sweeps of horizon broken only by the spines of an orphaned rocking chair, and beyond this, clouded with rage, the reﬂections of orange groves and ax handles.---I read this as a love poem to Rosie, it brings her to life, it opens our hearts to her:Sadness softened her nasal twang, that ubiquitous accent that had drifted out of the Appalachian hills and hollows, across the southern plains, across the southwestern deserts, insinuating itself all the way to the golden hills of California.
Complications ensue and Sughrue takes on a second case while he's waiting for the writer to be healthy enough to travel, finding a girl that's been missing for ten years.
Where will Sughrue's cases take him?Ever read a book and wonder what rock you must have been hiding beneath to never hear of it sooner?
Numerous reviewers have described it as a cross between Raymond Chandler and Hunter S.
By far, my favorite part of the book was the relationship between Sughrue and Trahearne.
Crumely's prose reminded me of Chandler's in places but bleaker.That's about all I have to say.
Like blues and jazz music, noir finds ways to reinvent itself while keeping true its classic form.
The tiredness, the disappointments, the cynical worldview are recurrent themes for both Sughrue and Trahearne, troubles that they sistematically drown in booze, even as they continue the search for Betty Sue Flowers, a girl who run away from a broken home ten years previously.
My past seemed like so much excess baggage, my future a series of long goodbyes, my present an empty flask, the last good drink already bitter on my tongue.
I cannot believe that I had never heard of James Crumley or this novel with his colourful Montana PI C.W. Sughrue before!
I have to say the novel is brilliant and is set in an atmospheric and eye catching world with Sughrue working in a topless bar.
Crumley is a gifted writer and wordsmith who deploys language skilfully.
You cannot help but get emotionally engaged with the tragedy that has befallen Rosie and know that Sughrue is doing the right thing by helping to find Betty Sue Flowers, Rosie's daughter.
The trail takes Sughrue into the seedy and murky underbelly of the American dream.
A daytime night crawler, he spends more time drunk than sober.Hired to track down a wayward writer on a multi-state binge, the bar fight that begins the novel and ends Sughrue’s quest strands him in Sonoma for a few days, where he promptly picks up another case.
Feeding into each other, they actually find time to do some detecting between the bars and parties.
There is such a foreboding layered into the story that you know that even as Sughrue works things out, the pages are not going to wind down to a happy ending.The reader is the better for it.
The International Chocolate Awards first place winner World Final GOLD: Pacari Chocolate (Ecuador) – MontubiaU.S. Open Medal Winners & Grand National ChampionWormtown Brewing in Worcester, MassachusettsCathy DuPont's first place winner for best book 2014-2015The Last Good Kiss by James CrumleyRecently I read about an author (whose name I can't recall) who immersed himself in a subject then when he had learned everything he wanted about it, his interest bucketed and he began again on an entirely different subject.I'm like that about authors.
Per Wiki: "Crumley had not read any detective fiction until prompted to by Montana poet Richard Hugo, who recommended the work of Raymond Chandler for the quality of his sentences.
Αποστολίδη Εξαιρετική!Τα αρνητικά: δυστυχώς είναι εξαντλημένο.Και επειδή κριτικός λογοτεχνίας ποτέ δεν ήμουν, ούτε έχω το κρυφό απωθημένο να γίνω, θα παραθέσω την κριτική του Patrik Raynal που υπάρχει στο οπισθόφυλλο του βιβλίου που την βρίσκω εξαιρετική και to the point που λέμε και στο χωριό μου."Ο κόσμος του Κράμλεϋ είναι λίγο-πολύ ο κόσμος του Τσάντλερ που έχει μεταφερθεί στην κόλαση των μικρών πόλεων και δεν διαθέτει ούτε ίχνος του εκλεπτυσμένου αγγλικού ύφους.
Η πλοκή των μυθιστορημάτων του Κράμλεϋ είναι πυκνή, δύσκολη σαν εκείνη του Τσάντλερ· λειτουργεί μόνον σαν πρόσχημα για να αναπτυχθεί μια υπερήφανη και αδιάλλακτη ηθική, μια ηθική αντίστροφη, όπου η τιμή και η αρετή βρίσκεται πάντοτε με την μεριά εκείνων που ποτέ δεν τις διεκδικούν γιατί είναι πολύ περήφανοι για να σκεφτούν να διεκδικήσουν την αλήθεια".
It would be an insult to the boozy soul of this book to write a review while sober, so for now I'll just say that it's a goddamn masterpiece of American detective fiction, and the best book I've read this year.Update: OK, I'm still sober but want to get some thoughts down now, so my apologies to the late Mr. Crumley.This is a post-detective novel, cut from the same cloth as '70s anti-mystery films like Penn's Night Moves ("Maybe he would find the girl...maybe he would find himself" could be the tagline for this book as well) and Altman's Long Goodbye, dripping in post-Vietnam, post-hippie declining despairing zeitgeist, and engaged in a complex relationship with the conventions and clichés of its hardboiled forebears.
The first great read of 2013."When I finally caught up with Abraham Trahearne, he was drinking beer with an alcoholic bulldog named Fireball Roberts in a ramshackle joint just outside of Sonoma, California, drinking the heart out of a fine spring afternoon..."Crumley opens with this line and doesn't let up for nearly 300 pages of a rambling, alcohol soaked journey through a series of hard-boiled, depraved, violent and miserable events in the hunt for a beautiful girl missing for the past ten years.
Once more it is the latter of these movies that I was reminded of throughout Crumley's wonderful work of third generation hard-boiled noir fiction.
Il mio passato sembrava bagaglio in eccesso, il mio futuro una serie di lunghi addii, il mio presente una fiaschetta vuota, l’ultimo vero drink che già mi faceva la lingua amara.(C.W. Sughrue)Trahearne e Sughrue sono i protagonisti di questo hard-boiled on the road che non lascia scampo; un romanzo duro, che non travalica il genere, ma ne esalta al meglio le caratteristiche: strade polverose, squallidi motel, desolati bar di provincia, locali malfamati, sesso, alcool, corruzione, donne fatali, uomini alla deriva, violenza, sconfitta… ci sono tutti gli ingredienti giusti, dosati perfettamente.
The turning on its head of many pulp clichés(the femme fatale especially), the gritty, depressive post Vietnam, post 60’s moral climate, and the geography(weird spring towns in Montana, communes in Oregon…these are all place I have been in the American west) all further endear this book to me.
This is kind of a holy grail to Pelicanos, Lehane, and Burke and their gritty, character driven, literate, and substance abuse obsessed takes on noir in the decades following this Crumley classic, so if your fan of them find this key influence.
I wouldnt say this is the best PI novel i have read writing wise like say Hammett or the best PI character stories like Matt Scudder novel but it was a good mix of both.
Calm pace, compassionate, real story that wanted to say something and a PI hero in CW Sughrue that felt so interesting, so real that i could read him doing nothing special for a whole novel.This novel deserve fully its rep as modern classic in the field.
Will be interesting to see if Crumley did write another novel this good or if this was his best effort by far.
As the novel opens, he's finally tracked down Abraham Trahearne, a famous drunken writer who Sughrue was hired to track down before he drinks himself to death.
So, accompanied by Trahearne and an alcoholic bulldog named Fireball Roberts, Sughrue searches for a girl he's mysteriously drawn to, a girl he only knows from a faded, crumpled photograph.This book inspired almost all of the contemporary crime writers working today.
One of the big reasons why it was so influential is because it took your standard detective novel and turned it into something more, with it's brilliant, poetic prose that, before then, would usually be reserved for more "serious" fiction.
Meet Private Detective C.
W. Sughrue.
Private detectives are supposed to find missing persons and solve crimes.
But more often than not Sughrue is the one committing the crimes – everything from grand theft auto to criminal stupidity.
The landlady’s daughter vanished a decade ago and now she wants Sughrue to find her.
Full of tongue-in-cheek humour, and without the political correctness we encounter today.Don't get me wrong.
There is plenty of grit and encounters that will open your eyes, and probably not for the faint-hearted at points.A solid 4* - Hard to put it down in words.
In every good noir book I’ve read, a female character (usually several) form the core of all motivation.
Or does she perish, destroyed by the machinations of this corrupt, stormy world?Betty Sue Flowers, the missing girl, is very obviously the LIGHTHOUSE of The Last Good Kiss and as lighthouses go… I’ve seen better.In fact, that’s what I’d like to say about the novel as a whole.
I’ve read better.The Last Good Kiss is a very fine specimen of the noir variety.
This narrative, mixed with the cynicism and low regard to society is what I think makes this book so refreshing.This novel deals a lot with sex; Sughrue’s personal integrity and professional ethics are corrupted by the sexual desire towards Catherine; a desire she uses to manipulate him.
It’s important to know at the core of this books portrayal of sexual desire is the cynical belief that such corruption is unavoidable and even inevitable.The Last Good Kiss also deals with the idea of identity and trying to escape your past, but ultimately realising you can’t run.
Just finished it. It's late. Gotta get up at 8 in the a.m. to make to a used books sale by 10:00.I don't know what I can say about this book. I'm in a state of awe. If I have it in me I'll try to post a review this weekend.I am staggered by the prose.The story's just fine. The writing is extraordinary.
Quality mystery about a private detective who is hired by his ex-wife to find an author, who seems to be out on a major bender. When CW finally tracks him down, he becomes obsessed with helping the bartender there find her daughter, who has not been seen in a decade since joining hippies in Haight-Asbury. The two story lines twist and turn, with many surprises along the way.
It was maybe my third or fourth time, I’m not sure.Whatever the case, I came away from the book thinking two things.Firstly, it probably has the greatest opening line of any book I’ve ever read.Second, it may very well be the best piece of private investigator fiction written.
And, Christ knows, there is certainly a lot of boring PI crime novels out there.But done well, the private investigator is a terrific vehicle to explore society and its underbelly.
It's not hard to feel trapped in Sughrue's position, and being so gripped by the narrative, the reader then gets spun into falling for two different women who's affection for our lead peters out like the title of the book (in fact there are several tragic asides about women, could-haves, etc), leaving Sughrue in a world where he is joined in dismay that that last good kiss, metaphorical or literal, is now long gone and what he must do now is no different than what was demanded him at the start of the case: work to survive and don't expect a peck on the cheek for saving a life or solving a case.
I had 'The Last Good Kiss' lined up for some time and the post-Christmas bliss of semi-hibernation was the perfect time - I would read it in two or three days.Crumley's style had me hooked straight away; my kind of writer, sit back and enjoy the ride."In the back seat, the bulldog hunkered like a heathen idol, some magical toad with a ruby as large as a clenched fist in his head, glowing through his stoic eyes, an inscrutable snicker mystic upon his face" - that's one of the main characters, a bulldog by the name of Fireball Roberts.It was only after a couple of weeks that I realized it was taking a lot longer to get through this book than I had expected.
Some hot ass shit.
I’m not saying it wasn’t okay, I just had more an attitude of “is that it?”Well fast forward those 10 years, join up to up a Pulp Fiction group on Goodreads and you get the opportunity to read it again as the April group read as voted for by the group members (but not me!)Second time around it was maybe a wee bit better, but unforgettable?
Whilst waiting out the week that Trahearne is hospitalised, Sughrue gets hired to look into the 10 year-old disappearance of Betty Sue Flowers – the bar owner’s daughter.With Trahearne in tow, most of the time, Sughrue digs deeper into the disappearance of the girl.
It ticked many of my boxes: California, the seventies, nature, homelessness, obsession, loss, sadness, hopeless romance.
I'm not into boozing and whoring around, but I somehow sympathize with characters who do.Some of the most memorable characterization.
It left me with the kind of literary heartache that'll cause me to turn for a while to books on science and writing.There were some questionable parts, sure.
Too many characters remained strangely calm after being beaten or shot.
But this novel becomes one of my favorites and it's a great example of a book I would never have discovered if it wasn't for Goodreads.
Ο. Σούγκρου, ο οποίος έχει πάρει όλα τα μπαρ με την σειρά μέχρι να βρει τον μεθύστακα συγγραφέα Αβραάμ Τραχέρν, τον οποίο ψάχνει η πρώην γυναίκα του.
Από κει και πέρα θα γίνει ένας ψιλοχαμός, μέχρι που η ιδιοκτήτρια του μπαρ όπου ο Σούγκρου βρήκε τον μεθύστακα συγγραφέα, θα ζητήσει από τον ιδιωτικό ντετέκτιβ να ψάξει να βρει την κόρη της, Μπέτι Σου Φλάουερς, που κατά τα φαινόμενα εξαφανίστηκε οικειοθελώς πριν δέκα ολόκληρα χρόνια.
Αυτό το μπουλντόγκ λοιπόν, μετά τον Ταχέρν και τον Σούγκρου, είναι ο πιο μεθύστακας μέσα στο βιβλίο.
