https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30186948-think-and-grow-rich
This is one of the greatest text books that I have ever read. This book has done so much for me, well I would be doing a great disservice trying to explain how great it is, purchase it and experience for yourself. I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Think-Grow-Ric...
I was looking through some of the reviews and see that some people gave it five stars and some gave it only one.
I think if the people who gave it one star would practice the principles given in this book they would quickly upgrade their rating.This book was published in 1937, during the Great Depression, and if the people who suffered during that time had read this book their lives might have been better.It is really about convincing yourself to become wealthy.
Great people have done this.
His roundtable idea is very intriguing.I do not see why anyone would not want to read this book.
Let's be honest to ourselves and face the truth: success in business depends on a complex equation with a lot of variants, such as 1) how well your business idea adapts to the powers of supply and demand, which govern (and oppress) contemporary society, 2) where you come from economically to begin with (I've seen aromatherapy businesses run by middle-class sons of bitches grow and be more "successful" than neighborhood food establishments run by poor honest people), 3) how much investing capital you have at the time of creating your business, 4) your race, and 5) sheer dumb luck.
Want to get rich?Don't waste your hard earned money on "Get Rich Quick" books.
3 "fascinating, ridiculous but well-meaning" stars 2016 MOST AVERAGE OF AVERAGE AWARD Let me start with a childhood story:As some of you know, I have an aunt that I love to bits.
I look up and lo and behold I see this book "Think and Grow Rich" (I learned to read when I was four or so).
O how I loved her winks, with her long dark blonde hair, bright red lipstick and brightly colored polyester dresses she looked like a movie star.
We were determined that he should live a normal life and associate with normal children, and we stood by that decision, although it cost us many heated debates with school officials."That stupid statement immediately made me dislike Napoleon Hill.
I take offense that he thinks knowing sign language isn't "normal" and that he wanted his son hanging out with "normal" children.
Ugh.By the end of Chapter 2, I didn't want to read anymore.Not only did I dislike his opinion about deaf children, but this entire book is about making money.
And while his methods may work, I don't want to make a lot of money -- just enough to pay the bills.
I expected a practical guide to managing personal finance, but got something a little kooky. On to the next one. :)
I have it on audio too and listen to it at the gym often.Napoleon Hill was tasked by Andrew Carnegie to write a book on what made a successful person succeed, and he spent 20 years researching and interviewing every great name of the day (Ford, Woolworth, Edison, etc), plus lots of people who failed (because you have to know what doesn't work too).
This book is the result.
Success comes from knowing what you want to achieve and having a burning desire to achieve it.
"The starting point of all achievements is desire.
When my dad introduced me to this book he made it sound like every second I wasn't reading it was wasted.
Well, maybe not eccentric, but definitely obsessed with the idea of making money.
I guess the one good thing this book did for me was help me realize what it would take for me to become rich.
Anyone that obsessed with money probably will get rich sooner or later.
But the only healthy obsession I can think of is one of reaching out to those around you, lifting up the downtrodden, and in fact laying up treasures in heaven.
Hill's recipe boils down to this: to get what you want you must 1) desire, 2) believe, 3) act, and 4) persist.First, the battinessHill's advice is always useful, even if not always completely truthful.
And if you think you can affect nature by thought alone, and "think" accordingly, the impact this will have on your beliefs and your actions can be profound."Lack of evidence" is a common theme through "Think and Grow Rich." Some of the claims Hill makes are pretty crazy, though they're presented as if they were glaringly obvious and unquestionably true.
Ted, my old boss at KWE (Kintetsu World Express) first recommended this book to me and told me that it very much changed his way of thinking.
I was skeptical and after forgetting that age old phrase of "never judge a book by its cover" (and not reading it for two months even after I bought it...I bought it only to appease Ted because I knew he was going to ask me if I had bought it...which he did)I finally sat down to read it and couldn't put it down.I thought it would be about making money and "growing rich" as the cover leads one to beleive...and which only half-heartedly interests me.
Бих казала, че „Мисли и забогатявай“ е нещо като пълнометражна версия на великолепното стихотворение на Джани Родари „Продавач на надежда“, но без доброто писане и некористолюбивия замисъл.Ще бъда по-конкретна, дори мога да ви направя услуга и да ви спестя четенето на 250 страници(view spoiler)[ – невероятната „тайна“, която Хил предъвква в цялата си книга е да искате много силно да имате пари и да не се отказвате от преследването на целите си, гарнирано тук-там за разкош със зародиша на разни ню ейдж идеи за някакъв Висш разум (главната буква е на г-н Хил, не моя) и трансмутация на сексуална енергия (hide spoiler)].
The book's title, "Think and Grow Rich" by napoleon Hill just flashed in my mind and, finding no prospective book to read at that time, I plunged on.
* Develop a plan of action.
Hill states that in addition to finding something we are passionate about, we need to align ourselves with other people to accomplish our goals.
I wish to state here the insights I've gained in reading this book, but I think it will deprive you of the fascination of knowing these things first hand.
Yes. I also realize how important it is to set a high goal, review it daily, and constantly work toward it.Quick summary: "Anybody can wish for riches, and most people do, but only a few know that a definite plan plus a burning desire for wealth are the only dependable means of accumulating it."The book contains a lot of practical advice on being successful, but it's mainly focused on the psychological motivation behind it.
On second thought, however, I can see how imagining the advice that great people might give could help you make better decisions.Here are the 13 Steps to Riches presented in the book, supposedly containing the great secret to wealth:13 Steps to Riches1.
هذا الكتاب أحسن مرجع لمن يبحث عن كيفية الحصول على المال و مضاعفة الثروة ..
------المبادئ التي يجب أن تتبعها لحصولك على المال 1 - حرق الرغبات : يجب أن تقع في حب أهدافك 2 - الايمان المطلق 3 - تحدث إلى ذاتك : أخبر بأهدافك إلى نفسك مرتين في اليوم في الوقت الحاضر4 - تخصص : نمي معرفتك في المجال و التخصص و المهنة التي تعمل فيها 5 -تخيل : ما العقل يمكن تصوره ويعتقد أنه يمكن تحقيقه6 - ضع مخططك ..
The mind cannot differentiate between truth and falsehood, we simply need to instruct or manipulate it toward a certain mode!'Think and Grow Rich' by Napoleon Hill, takes an in depth look at the power of the mind and personal belief and how these influence our success.
Hill shows how the mind cannot differentiate between truth and falsehood, we simply need to instruct or manipulate it toward a certain mode.This is a must read for everyone, regardless of your professional background.
A lot of people I know speak very highly of this book.
I disagree.
It was so terrible I couldn't stomach finishing it.
This is the early predecessor to the contemporary fantasy called "The Secret" - just think hard enough about what you want and it will happen.
Regardless of what Napoleon Hill supposedly researched, desire alone is not a determinant of success.
Don't waste your time and energy on this book.
Instead, go read "I Will Teach You To Be Rich" from Ramit Sethi for actionable advice on how to build your financial success, or "The Personal MBA" by Josh Kaufman for a real primer on how business works.
This was a pretty quick read, gave clear suggestions to improve success, and was full of interesting and inspirational anecdotes.As I continued to read through this book, I found it to become a little samey.
There were some inspiring elements but I found others to be beyond the range of my belief and could not believe that success and riches could be so easily garnered.This was a solid self-improvement book but I have read others, in the same vein, that gave me a more solid foundation on which to go ahead and achieve all promised, in my own life.
I have read hundreds of books over the past many years in my quest for success. "Think and Grow Rich" truly stands right near the top. It has made a positive impact on my life in many ways. Frankly, as with many wonderful books, I have applied the principles in this book and have reaped incredible results.
Unlike Good to Great I don't necessarily see this book as a must-read for business.
I thoroughly enjoyed it myself and found a lot of the advice useful for life and self-belief, but as far as a business bible I wouldn't swear on it.
What I did find enjoyable was sdespite some of the outdated advice, most of the "self worth" and envisioning/thinking goals into existence are still relevant and while people may disagree with the actual effectiveness of them they do help bolster one's self esteem, which is always important.
It was a fun little exploration into business books but I do not base my decisions on it.
One of the best books I've ever read.
It kept me thinking the whole time about the ideas that I've encountered in this book.
It talks about the new philosophy of enlightenment with practical applications of it.
The book talks mainly about accumulating riches, but it could be replaced by any other gaol that one desires.
This book will probably affect your life greatly if you're not already familiar with the new age of enlightenment.
Other than that; it's a great book on all levels and I highly recommend it.
P.S. it's a super positive book; hence, not recommended for sad people.
I admit, I had some mental blockage when I started reading it, and only because I had personal fears and doubts about finances that I have since addressed by self-educating (see other recommended financial books on my list) and seeking assistance from qualified professionals with a good frame of reference for what I needed advice on (I love my financial advisor, Jason!).
This book helped me detatch from some emotional and fear based patterns I discovered within, and helped me get OK with making and managing money.
This is an instruction manual for creating a prosperity based mentality and then putting it to good use.
I’d wanted to read a classic self-help book, and several modern motivational speakers have credited Napoleon Hill.
He hastens to point out that richness and power is not just about money, but about quality of life and achievement of goals.
He even states that Mahatma Gandhi was the most powerful man living at the time, and that he also applied these principles to achieve that power.Some of the concepts are old school: hard work, planning and persistence, for example.
While not written in a style I enjoy, I can appreciate the concepts that Hill pioneered that are still popular in self-help books today.
The basic premise is this: one's external concrete circumstances are nothing more than a reflection of one's inner world and dominating thoughts.
You will not conquer the world until you conquer your own thoughts!This is what I like most about this book: the focus inward, the resources emotive, the beneficiaries could be anyone!
Strong FAITH and DESIRE are the only prerequisites for all success!Recommended for people who accept nothing but success and hope to accumulate infinite amount of RICHES—these ranging from simple peace of mind to lots of money!
But desiring riches with a state of mind that becomes an obsession, then planning definite ways and means to acquire riches, and backing those plans with persistence which does not recognize failure, will bring riches.- To all these I wish to convey the thought that all achievement, no matter what may be its nature, or its purpose, must begin with an intense, BURNING DESIRE for something definite.- FAITH is a state of mind which may be induced, or created, by affirmation or repeated instructions to the subconscious mind, through the principle of auto-suggestion.- FAITH IS A STATE OF MIND WHICH MAY BE INDUCED BY AUTOSUGGESTION- FAITH is the “eternal elixir” which gives life, power, and action to the impulse of thought!
Changed the way I saw the world. Continues to change the way I process the world.
Hill accidentally hits on a very biblical theme here - "you become like what you worship" - and then works off the assumption that everyone can and should become very rich.At times, I was tracking with him, but he totally lost me with his chapters on "sex transmutation" (using sexual energy to make money) and the "invisible counselors" (using imaginary meetings with successful people, such as Abraham Lincoln or Thomas Edison, to gain insight into making money).Somewhat surprisingly, the book actually works (this is why so many people love it). But what it works for is worldliness.
Napolian Hill, my favorite motivational and self help writer and speaker, studied for twenty years to put together this volume entitled "Think and Grow Rich." This is a very practical manual wherein he explains a step by step process to attain riches, both of the finantial and spiritual natures. I believe this is a must read for all especially for those who are entrapreneureal minded and not afraid to think for themselves.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
This was the first and my favorite self-help book I ever have read. Hill teaches strong principles of thought control and discaplin of habbits.I recommend every one reads this book. You can also find some awesome videos on youtube.comEnjoy and Be Blessed
He takes on such controversial issues as "never giving up," "planning ahead," and the ever progressive and edgy idea "talk with smart people to get good ideas." The only real problem with the book is he studied hundreds of successful people and that is his research.
Oh, and if there is something you don't like (talking to yourself in the mirror for example) you're just not ready for it yet.Bottom line, he has good yet not novel ideas that he got from successful people along with inspiring stories of success but he takes too much liberty with his research drawing definite conclusions for the secret formula for success without sufficient data.
