https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110392.Minx
She sets out to scare him right off her, well, his, land and starts off smelling like pig mud.
She later gets him to work in said pig mud all in the name of, again, scaring him off.
And he seethes with jealousy eventually deciding he must have her for himself.Cue the big MU which is a bit ridic imho as it goes on, like, forevs.
And forevs, and forevs...And when it gets wrapped up, it gets wrapped up real quick like.
Too quick like.Heroine: Henry.
Let's hope the last one I have left in the series is better.
La, sir, but you should not call me sweetheart.”“It’s a start, but if you happen to be holding a fan, I strongly urge you to poke it into the bounder’s eye as well.” Dunford was inclined to agree with her, considering how badly he wanted to drag her back to his town house, haul her up the stairs, and have his wicked way with her.
Her plans to stay that way lead to some fantastic, albeit childish, antics to convince her new guardian, Dunford, he would rather not have inherited Stannage Park.
I seriously, seriously enjoyed this book.Quite simply, I love it!Minx was funny, sweet and romantic, the characters were so descriptively written and well developed. A true romance book with the happy ending.I highly recommend this book,as well as the rest of J. Quinn's work.
Cons– Miscommunication issues = Last quarter of the book spiraling down, down, down – Concept of and behavior towards a mistress = Cringeworthy– Heroine when thinking the guy is cheating on her chastises herself for being unworthy, too manly, and not good enough for him – and never once putting the fault on him = Weakkkkkk Pros– Plot = Was pretty damn cute and funny at times– Other Characters = Good family and friends support system– Ending = Cute epilogueFinal ThoughtsIt started out well, but ughhhh that last quarter though.
(view spoiler)[Happy.
(view spoiler)[No. There is a presence of a mistress.
*Review Coming*
You know how sometimes you watch a movie because you’re favorite actor is in it? That’s how I feel about this book. Dunford is my favorite Quinn hero - based on his role in all three books of the Splendid series and his cameo in How to Marry a Marquis - but Minx is not my favorite Quinn book. Don’t get me wrong, this book still earned my 5 star rating. It's quite entertaining and a recommended read especially for Quinn fans. I loved 90% of the book (see my dislike below for the other 10%) Becaus
I didn’t particularly like the hurdle presented in the book.
2) I didn’t feel like the misunderstanding they were presented was believable.
Dunford is a morally good guy, and even if he was crazy in love, I couldn’t believe he was willing to sacrifice Henry’s and his own happiness just to make her “his” or turn so ugly right around the time of their wedding.
Also, Quinn wrote Henry to be strong willed and outspoken, therefore it seemed that she would’ve just confronted Dunford about her concerns.Like – 1) As always, I love Quinn’s secondary characters.
The conflict was annoying and there wasn't enough action, too much talk!------------------------------January 2012: I think this is officially my favorite Julia Quinn book!
These two characters, Henry and Dunford, will definitely go down in my all-time favorite couple category for sure.
Don't ask me how that happened, but I just LOVED the hero and especially the heroine, Henry, was just so wonderful and different, she just came alive to me, and the fact that Dunford appreciated her differences was so endearing.
Another added to my all-time favorite list for sure!
The first 80% of this novel was excellent and just what I have come to expect from Julia Quinn's books.However the last 20% or so had the heroine acting so out of character that I started to get slightly irritated and it has cause me to drop a star from my rating.
Still I enjoyed the majority of it and Julia Quinn is still one of my favourite regency romance authors.

I loved this book, loved that there were not stupid reasons for them to be apart as in other books from this author were the characters fight because enemies are trying to kill them or things like that, which IMHO makes the story terribly lame.In the case of William and Henry, both of them get in love as they should.
I really liked that because I was getting bored of those couples which invent poor reasons to stay apart.**possible spoilers**My only problem was that, as in every historical romance book, once they found a reason to fight or get apart for a while, that time was just too long.
O carte frumoasa, haioasa, cu răsturnari de situatie. Clar o carte numai buna pentru relaxare!Recenzia mea completa o gasiti aici:https://justreadingmybooks.wordpress....
3.25 stars
Grosse déception, je sais pas si c’est la traduction qui a rendu tous les personnages plus stupides les uns que les autres, mais en tout cas ça vole bien bas et le quiproquo de la fin met une éternité à se résoudre pffff... j’ai sauté une vingtaine de pages pour abrégé cette lecture.
I liked this story, I love Julia Quinn, but I do have one complaint.
When he arrives, he finds that the estate being overseen by a "distant poor relation." The heroine is Henrietta Barrett, "Henry" a charming character whose been living in the country managing a farm.
Now a very distant relative of the previous owner, William Dunford (who only goes by Dunford), owns the place.
Sweet story but Henry was TOO Insecure- didn't like that.Well, this was a book I really, really enjoyed.
If you follow my books, you know I love me some Julia Quinn.
When he arrives, he finds that the estate being overseen by a "distant poor relation." Henrietta is an odd, charming woman who runs the estate like a man, wearing pants and working hard.Henrietta hates Dunsford on principal.
She fears he will usurp her after all her hard work and tries to manipulate and play petty tricks on him so that he will live in London and leave the estate alone.It doesn't work because they genuinely like and admire each other.
Dunsford finds out in the will that he's technically Henrietta's ward and feels it's his responsibility to give her a season in London.
I loved Henry. I loved this fresh, unusual historical romance. It was utterly delightful and I loved seeing Henry blossom into a swan. But I don't like stupid misunderstandings that can be easily resolved. Otherwise, this would have been a sparkling five star.I am a sucker for Pygmalion themed books and it was a pure delight following Henry's journey from independent tomboy to equally independent Incomparable beauty. I loved loved the interaction with the ton. And I loved the side characters and I will definitely go back and read their stories.
Not only is JQ enormously funny, but her heroines are always tremendously likeable and this one is no exception. This book made me laugh a lot, but also made me cry and that's no small feat, believe me.
Said estate was the inheritance of Dunford, who came to Cornwall to see it.The dumb girl decided to get rid of the new lord, with idiotic plans!
I've never wanted to slap a character that much...Anyway, they resolve that issue, became friends and fell in love with each other.But then again, there is a huge drama due to a miscommunication between those two.
But an evil woman hears him and decided to torture Henry by telling her her husband-to-be has a mistress and plan to keep her.
Es sin duda el mejor de la trilogía. La personalidad de Dunford y la tenacidad de Henry hacen de esta historia una delicia. ¡Me ha encantado!
Esperaba más.
Just cute, funny, and romantic. *deep sigh* ❤😍
Just cute, funny, and romantic. *deep sigh* ❤️😍
Por eso cuando se entera que la propiedad pasa a manos del nuevo Conde se decide a espantar al dandi haciéndole ver lo pesada que es la vida en el campo.Pero ella jamás esperaba encontrarse con que Dunford estaba dispuesto a presentarle cara y por una vez en la vida ambos encuentran a un rival digno que pondrá de cabeza su vida.–Pensé que podríamos comenzar por los animales –dijo ella.–Supongo que los conoces a todos por sus nombres.– ¡Claro!
Pero una vez más Quinn ha logrado una historia divertida y tan atrapante, que apenas llevaba unas 30 hojas y yo ya había olvidado todas mis quejas del libro y estaba amándolo de verdad.Quinn nos ha presentado dos personajes INCREIBLES.
The quirky, funny, witty, falling-in-love parts were almost overshadowed by TBM pain & angst.
It only makes sense that we can't leave Dunstan and Henry happily-ever-after in Cornwall on a farm.
I *get* why Dunstan wants to give Henry a Season: not just because, as her guardian, it's the right thing to do, but because he also has to show her she truly is a woman, give her women friends, and help her learn and practice a bit in society.
So. Long!And TBM (the big misunderstanding) between Dunstan and Henry also seems highly contrived.
Dunford easily saw through Henry's plots and they fell in love (but couldn't admit it) so quickly that it was predictable.(view spoiler)[I was turning pages just to see if it got better.
His reticence to realize that Henry was perfect for him.
The whole mistress scandal was difficult to swallow as was Henry's absurd solution and then Dunford's reaction.One of the other reviewers suggested that their wedding night was rape, and it very nearly was, which didn't make it fun to read.
I really think Quinn went the wrong way with the book after Henry's first ball.
(hide spoiler)]I have no compulsion to keep reading Quinn's books, other than that I have a stack sitting beside my bed.
We have already come to know Dunford from the previous books.
When the earl died, she began to scheme to find a way to make the current earl stay in London where she felt he belonged.Dunford and Henry develop a close friendship once they come to know each other.
And Dunford has a hard time accepting that he loves her.
He finally does and Henry admits her love for him.
But the reconciliation was oh so sweet.I loved Henry for all of her insecurities.
And I loved Dunford for only wanting her to be herself.
OK, so my complaint is that during the resolve, Henry feels SO GUILTY for not trusting Dunford.
The whole situation could have been avoided had he not lied to her about where he was going in the first place (granted, or if she'd just asked him about his mistress).
He just keeps asking her why she didn't trust him, and she keeps saying she was horribly wrong for not.
Authors keep doing this, telling us that the heroine (us in our dreams) should trust the hero, even if he lies to us about what he's doing.
I was thrilled when I read that this book was about Dunford.
Henry was a wonderful and strong character as well.
I loved every piece of that book and just couldn't put it aside.
I had the strong urge to hit my head against the tabletop because everything would have been just fine if they've just talked to each other.
It seems like Julia Quinn had a strong urge to ruin the weddings of her heroins in her first books.
I felt so bad for Henry because she just couldn't enjoy what should have been the luckiest day in her live.
And of course I felt bad for Dunford too.
4.5 STARSJust finished reading Minx by Julia Quinn and I LOVED IT. If you love HR or the guardian/ward trope, there's a chance you'll enjoy this one as much as I did. It was suuuper entertaining with lots of great banter and really fun characters. MINX was sexy, sweet, funny and a little tiny bit forbidden, angsty and scandalous. I'm now off to reading the first two books in this trilogy (I know, I know...I broke my own rule and skipped to the third book, gah! Book gods, please forgive my sins 🙏🏻).
I really liked Henry's personality and it's refreshing when you read a lot of romances with boring typical Victorian era women!
I also liked the Guardian aspect.
I haven't read a book yet where the guardian falls in love with his ward.
Shocking I know, considering all the romance books I read.
You see the other characters from the first two books.
As always with series I wish I could continue on with the characters to meet all their children they will have ( as if they are real people) That to me means its a great series.
I completely ADORE this novel!
The female protagonist is your earlier feminist, she's cute, daring and just so lovable!
I immediately fell in love with our leading man, Dunford!
I really enjoyed the chemistry between our two main characters.
I got so wrapped up in this book I didn't want to put it down.
I wanted a change from PNR and I am so glad I picked out this Historical Romance.
It was sweet and has it's fair share of squeal worthy scenes.
Quinn has woven characters with substance and the progression of Dunford and Henry is just perfect!
I would definitely recommend this book!
