https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1919127.The_Ladybird
A strange story by Lawrence, and strange characters, which he is uniquely capable of creating. Set toward the end of World War I, a German prisoner, a Count, convalescing in an English hospital, is befriended by Daphne, the “Ladybird”. They are acquaintances from years earlier. Their relationship, their mutual attraction, seems to me unusual, reminding me of two of Lawrence’s other characters, Lady Chatterley and Oliver the gamekeeper. Another excellent piece of writing by D.H. Lawrence.
"...no form of love is wrong, so long as it is love, and you yourself honour what you are doing. Love has an extraordinary variety of forms...if you deny the variety of love you deny love altogether. Love must be multiform, else it is just tyranny, just death," writes Lawrence, through the voice of the Major. To me, this IS the voice of D.H. Lawrence as evidenced by his other works. Lovely.
Nietzsche’s ‘Birth of Tragedy’, so stellar,Is rendered here in form of a novella;The lead is even surnamed Dionys(Could you imagine any more obvious a device?)‘Light is the turning away of the genuine fire,The true original sun that never tires;‘Dark and throbbing it is, immortal flood;And you belong to me, O blood of my blood.’In ‘Ladybird’, Herr Lawrence announces themesWhich later formed the crux of his waking dreams.
تدور أحداث الرواية في فترة نهاية الحرب العالمية الأولى السيدة بيفيردج التي مات ابنها في الحرب لم تجد
Nietzsche’s ‘Birth of Tragedy’, so stellar,Is rendered here in form of a novella;The lead is even surnamed Dionys(Could you imagine any more obvious a device?)‘Light is the turning away of the genuine fire,The true original sun that never tires;‘Dark and throbbing it is, immortal flood;And you belong to me, O blood of my blood.’In ‘Ladybird’, Herr Lawrence announces themesWhich later formed the crux of his waking dreams.
رواية شدتني من بدايتها والتعريف بالكاتب حتى النهاية، بعيدًا عن الحب الأبدي المظلم كنت في تساؤل حول العنوان المبهم "الخنفساء المنقطة " وماذا يعني ؟إذ لم يكن غير شعار لأحد العوائل الأرستقراطية يرمز لهم.رواية خفيفة لطيفة إستمتعت بها.
kitaptan bir puan kesmemin tek nedeni beyaz geceler'den daha güzel olmaması. bunun dışında kitap bir şaheser, ayrıca kont karakteri dorian gray'in portresi'ndeki lord henry ile benzerlik gösteriyor. bu kadar
There's a side of Lawrence that makes him seem ridiculous and even awful (views on politics, bigotry) but he is undeniably a great writer. Ladybird is in part an antiwar story, among my favorites of his, a close second to Sons and Lovers.
Three short stories, great introduction to DH Lawrence.
Bravo to the editor who put these three short stories/novellas together. They layer on top of each other nicely.
ثلاثة نجوم لا للقصة و موضوعها و إنما لحواراتها و فلسفة شخوصها .
Another novella that deals with the concept of power, the sources thereof and the relative independence of women vis-a-vis that of patriarchy. All framed within the context of World War I, and the changes that resulted from this cataclysmic event. Would have loved a proper novel exploring these issues.
I have read it in 2005 , and now rereading I am still fascinated by the master craftsman Lawerence .
My absolute favorite. Despite its problems, I love the prose. And the way emotion is captured amidst the destruction of society is amazing!
So, her reckless, anti-philanthropic passion could find no outlet-- and SHOULD find no outlet, she thought. So her own blood turned against her, beat on her own nerves, and destroyed her. It was nothing but frustration and anger which made her ill, and made the doctors fear consumption. There it was, drawn on her rather wide mouth: frustration, anger, bitterness. There it was the same in the roll of her green-blue eyes, a slanting, averted look: the same anger furtively turning back on itself.
Aburrida historia amor platónico entre una inglesay un soldado alemán en la 1GM.Muchos clichés,dudas y cursilería.
Lawrence, D.H.Four Short NovelsIn compilation only.
