https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39926.The_Beauty_Myth
At a time when many are saying there is no need for feminism, Wolf shows that sexism is still alive and well and how trying to adhere to the Perfect Woman is holding women back.As I dig more and more into feminism, particularly the portion where women take great pains to look the part that society tells them (sexual, but not TOO sexual, smart but not TOO smart), I kept seeing this book.
NO ONE is making women do them - compare that to female genital mutilation, which is NOT a choice by any means!+ The conspiracy theory that women don't have a choice (such as for plastic surgery or buying makeup).
It is all about how the A) Our modern ideals of beauty are mostly driven by the advertising industry and not intrinsic cultural or biological preferences, and B) How our modern ideals of beauty put women at a disadvantage to men.I have a few disagreements with her, listed below, but I agree with her in general and it's a really good book to read, even if you are not going to agree with her, just to make yourself think about some of the questions she raises.Concerns:1) Data: she plays fast and loose with her statistics sometimes.
I think the biological theory that this desire is driven by signals that a woman is fertile explain this universality a lot better than Wolf's theories of stakeholders of power that perpetuate cultual ideas useful to themselves.
Unfortunately, I think much of the book points the blame outward instead of inward.
I am more than aware of my own hand in the Beauty Myth and my own unhappiness.Wolf's book is broken into several chapters, the first few of which I found obnoxious and tired.
The last few chapters did finally begin to perk up - as I had hoped - as Wolf discussed Violence and Culture and their effects on modern women.I don't have the energy to put into a good long review of this book, and I'm not sure I even want to waste any more of my time on it anyway.
It's a book I wanted to like but couldn't.Wolf's basic premise is that "beauty" is an artifical concept that is used systematically to oppress women primarily for political purposes.
In each section, Wolf attempts to show how the concept of "beauty" has historically kept women in positions of inferiority and how it continues to do so.
Instead, Wolf says that beauty is subjective and provides a few examples from diverse cultures to make the point.
But in the end, Wolf says, all women are beautiful.
Published in 1990, The Beauty Myth came out ahead of its time, as Naomi Wolf rails against the thin ideal, how companies lure women into buying products by making them feel insecure about their bodies, ageism, and so much more.
Wolf articulates this message with an extra edge of feminist politics, and I appreciate her fiery demand that we free women from the capitalist and sexist notion that their self-worth comes from the external beauty of their bodies, instead of the radiance of their hearts.Overall, a good read I would recommend to those interested in body image, feminism, and the intersections of politics and appearances.
Wolf clearly takes her cue from Betty Friedan, but Friedan's argument was devastating, fully exposing the manifestations of a myth in our culture.
But then, rather than generating an argument analyzing how a beauty myth is generated and effected, she merely spits out her data polemically, and some of those data are rather suspect.As someone who has read and continues to read a lot of critical theory/cultural studies stuff, I hate to say it, but writing like this is a direct effect of the golden age of high theory in North America (roughly 1975-95).
Naomi Wolf, please, I really want to like you, but let's do better next time, let's?
By the time I had read twenty pages of The Beauty Myth, I realized that this is one of the most important books I will ever read.
Admittedly, I was initially skeptical of Wolf's central thesis-- that the cultural "myth" of feminine beauty is a political and economic weapon used by the male-dominated world to undermine women's advancement in society-- but, by the time I had finished reading the first chapter, I had a changed perspective of the world.
Without this dichotomy, created by the beauty myth, the world's economy would collapse.
We know women can die from risks due to cosmetic surgeries, it's in the news all the time, but more as an afterthought, a sideline article, something we're all a little shocked and saddened by, but then you hear comments at lunch like "I will need liposuction after this meal...".We have short memories.Wolf reminds us of all of these issues, and more.
But what Wolf did here too many times for my comfort was make everything seem like a giant conspiracy, something we should be terrified of, instead of offering suggestions or encouraging us to work towards a solution.I know this is crazy, coming from me, but this needed to be less about the patriarchy keeping us down and more about consumerism as a whole, capitalism.
I probably should not have tried reading Mercedes Lackey’s Fire Rose after reading this book. That novel, a retelling of Beauty and the Beast, has a woman as the central character. The woman, Rose, doesn’t realize how beautiful she is and looks down her nose at other women whom she deems to have looks but not brains. Rose has brains (well, she thinks she does) but doesn’t think that she has looks, surprising considering how much effort seems to be put into assuring the reader that despite her c
The woman, Rose, doesn’t realize how beautiful she is and looks down her nose at other women whom she deems to have looks but not brains.
Wolf has said a bunch of stupid and inane things since this book was first published and is probably known today by most people as the woman who (1) advised Al Gore how to dress (2) wrote a book about genital or(C) accused Harold Bloom of attempting to rape her, years after the alleged event.
That said, there is much in the book to at the very least make the reader think.
So I had no choice but to read The Beauty Myth as someone firmly grounded in today: this is the only world I have ever known.For someone like me, who is so young and technophilic, the absence of Internet and World Wide Web in this book is conspicuous.
A woman reading Glamour is holding women-oriented mass culture between her two hands.This preciousness of media that we otherwise want to criticize for supporting the beauty myth is an interesting point.
In order to disempower women, we were made to think we were ugly and inundated with images of what the perfect woman should look like and how to get there.
A woman is still supposed to be wrinkle-free, and we're still supposed to spend inordinate amounts of money on maintenance.I read an article in Norway that 1 out of 5 women in my income segment has had cosmetic surgery.
It's too late now anyway, ha ha.How stronger we could all be, if we would not be made to feel ugly.
*Cross-posted on Wordpress and BookLikes. Naomi Wolf does not have a way with words. Dense, vague and ambiguous language; sweeping generalizations; and seeing a deeper meaning or intent where a simpler explanation is more likely and appropriate – which created a conspiratorial air that everyone, or just men, were doing everything they can to oppress women and repress their desires. Frustration had me skimming, and I found myself regularly defending men and questioning women’s complicit behaviou
But what I was really interested in was Wolf's opinions on rape after reading the first paragraph of Rape is Rape: 'In the wake of rape allegations against Wikileaks founder Julian Assange, feminist Naomi Wolf publicly denied that if a man holds down and tries to sexually penetrate a woman who previously agreed to sex but changed her mind after he refused to wear a condom, he is a rapist.
In 1990, when The Beauty Myth was first published, Wolf was telling us how common acquaintance rape is and that victims of rape that don't call it rape still suffer as much as those who do, and twenty years later in 2010, she believed the controversial police report over the rape victims own words.
বইটা মূলত আমেরিকা বা পাশচাতযের দেশগুলোর জনয বেশি পরাসঙগিক, যেখানে মেয়েরা ঘর ছেড়ে এসে অনয সব কষেতরে নিজের জায়গা করে নিচছে এবং সেকসুয়াল রেভলযুশনের সুফল ভোগ করেছে। সেখানে বিউটি মিথ নামের এক জুজু মেয়েদের এই এগিয়ে যাওয়াকে কিভাবে বাঁধাগরসত করছে, নিজের দেহের সাথে, সেকসুয়ালিটির সাথে কিভাবে অপরিচিত করে তুলছে এবং নিজেকে অসুনদর ভাবতে বাধয করছে যার ফলশরুতিতে মেয়েরা কিভাবে নিজেদের শারীরিক মানসিকভাবে অসুসথ করে তুলছে এবং তাদের এই অসুনদর হবার ভীতিকে কেনদর করে কিভাবে গড়ে উঠেছে বিলিয়ন টরিলিয়ন ডলারের ইনডাসটরি - এস
বইটা মূলত আমেরিকা বা পাশ্চাত্যের দেশগুলোর জন্য বেশি প্রাসঙ্গিক, যেখানে মেয়েরা ঘর ছেড়ে এসে অন্য সব ক্
This is the second time I've read this book in a two month time period.
However, the overall message of this book has changed the way I'll look at my body forever: Love your body because YOU are in it--not the other way around!
Fat is just a substance--one that our female bodies need to live, reproduce, and satisfy our hunger.
The victorian women called it their "silken layer", and so shall I!
Join me in reading and internalizing this book to change the way we look at our bodies forever.
Put down the Cosmo and other "women's" magazines and pick up something uplifting.
Este libro es bestial y todo el mundo (especialmente las mujeres) debería leerlo.Subiré una reseña completa pronto porque necesito poner mis pensamientos en orden. Pero es increíble.
This book provided me with a good second-hand understanding of the role beauty played in the 80s, but I wish I had read it earlier because if you have insight into how advertising works, most of this book will sound familiar. While I do think that the internet has changed how we see beauty, this book was still worth a read as an intro into advertising and body image as seen through a feminist lens.
These are important parts of our culture that we should all take time to think about.Some of my main take aways are:- Basically, the Beauty Myth tells us beauty (the one type of beauty that is sold by the industry) is what brings happiness and success in all aspects of life.
If she is busy worry about her appearance, she can't have the strength to fight for equality.- The Beauty Myth takes different forms over time.
There are unspoken but real consequences for not conforming to the rules of the beauty industry.- GUILT traps us.
So much information and literature is published saying quite the contrary in fact that most women want to be beautiful and feminine no matter how much the feminists brainwash them.
It is thanks to feminism that women who don't want to work are forced into the workforce by brainwashed populace and college professors who think that potential is wasted if a woman has no career.
This book took me forever to get through! My favorite part was how it put into words things I’ve thought or felt but was unable to vocalize. However, it does feel a bit dated, it’s incredibly dense, and I thought some of her generalizations were a bit problematic. I definitely see why this is considered essential reading on the feminist bookshelf, but its density dulled the power of the message for me.
I don't know if the subject matter was just more interesting, if Wolf's writing got better as the book went on, or if I was just in the right mood this time around (or, just as likely, had finally lowered my expectations the proper amount), but I found these three chapters to be some pretty great stuff.Wolf's main point is that the pervasive images of women we receive as a culture have nothing to do with who we really are, and if we take in enough of them, we start living our lives from the outside in instead of the inside out, which limits us in many ways.
I like a lot of what Wolf says, even if she frequently says it in the most overwrought manner possible, but I'm not sure the book completely stands up on its own merit.
It's a long book, much longer than the most recent feminist pieces I've read, but for all of Wolf's trumpeting and data quoting, she gets a little conspiratorial at times, then she'll just blame the patriarchy with no further explanation.
But it does discuss some important topics like our modern ideals of beauty and the values we all place on them, be it subconsciously or otherwise.
Há citação de vários casos jurídicos cuja decisão sempre foram contra as mulheres e a favor dos homens, por mais absurdas que sejam as situações.O terceiro capítulo, Cultura, explana as consequências do mito da beleza na midia, desde a prevalência da manipulação da indústria de cosméticos em revistas femininas, passando pela indústria da pornografia e a hoje já defasada "concorrência" feminina.O quarto capítulo, Religião, discorre como as mulheres quase se libertaram do dogmatismo inferiorizante das religiões patriarcais para deslocarem sua subserviência nas seitas do vigilantes do peso, produtos para a pele e cirurgias estéticas.
#NonFictionNovember 2016: IMPORTANT.✨3.25 stars✨ We do not need to change our bodies, we need to change the rules. I had high hopes for this book.First of all, this is a condensed version of The Beauty Myth which, originally, was something like 380 pages. The version I read is the short and tiny one, barely 120 pages. The original version was also published in 1990: 26 years ago. Me being stupid I thought 1990 was like 6 years ago, because it feels like that, but it's actually like a quarter of
I had high hopes for this book.First of all, this is a condensed version of The Beauty Myth which, originally, was something like 380 pages.
The version I read is the short and tiny one, barely 120 pages.
The original version was also published in 1990: 26 years ago.
WTF.I feel ashamed because it never happened to me, ever before, to feel bored when reading feminist literature.
Never before this book.I think the problem was in the writing style.
For 5 things I found interesting, there were 10 more that bored me to death.
If you want to venture into feminist books then try something different.
с одной стороны, "миф о красоте", безусловно, произведение для феминистской риторики программное.
поэтому примерно после каждого важного набора фактов идет еще примерно раз в пять больше истерики - she goes on and on and on and on, как юродивый проповедник на площади, нередко добираясь до практически Тайного Патриархального Общества, которое захватило мир и имеет своей целью порабощение и/или уничтожение женщин, и которое, собственно, и придумало этот самый миф о красотене могу сказать, что я с ней согласна - по мне, это такое типичное религиозное мышление, мол, не может же всё так плохо быть просто так, без чьей-то хитрой задумки, наверняка это какая-то ацкая сотона замышляет.
The first couple of chapters talk about the beauty myth like a conspiracy, as if there's a group of men holding meetings going "Hmm, how shall we make women feel inferior this time?" Naomi Wolf never clearly identifies "the oppressors" (which I infer from the text that it's a combination of various factors, including social hierarchy, the economy, and so on) though she does mention much later in the book that regular men are not into the thinness and beauty standards set by the beauty myth.
This book really changed my view of the world.
I think every woman should read this book.
The ranking of women by an officially approved beauty ideal and the invisibility in the media of all non-standard beautiful women is only getting worse now with social media and the popularity contest that this has turned into!It was a bit hard to get into at first and here in the Netherlands where I live, cosmetic surgery is still not as popular and common as in America (thank god!) but there is enough in this book that is still very true for most women today.This book asks questions that lead you to think deeper about all the B.S. That you have grown up with and have accepted as true and unchangeable facts and even part of your own character, while actually your way of thinking can be changed if you recognise what is unrealistic and hurtful and you can learn to protect yourself from these influences.You can't change the world but you can change your own thinking.Let us see where that change will lead us!
How can you talk about the suffering that beauty ideals can cause without talking about how white supremacist beauty ideals hurt women of colour?
How can you talk about how beauty ideals affect romantic relationships without talking about queer women?
How can you talk about gatekeeping based on meeting the beauty ideal without talking about transwomen?
How can you talk about how society pathologises femininity as mental illness without talking about women who are actually mentally ill?
How can you talk about makeup, cosmetic surgery, and fancy clothes without talking about which women can afford it?
The brilliance of this book is demonstrating how the patriarchy is self-reinforcing, as well as the price women pay for meeting (or not meeting) the beauty standard. It's a great work of feminism, even if Wolf has since said some really stupid stuff.
Wolf zooms out to dizzying heights, makes questionable jumps in logic and sweeping generalisations, and the book is badly in need of an update (the chapter on Culture particularly is almost obsolete).That said, looking at history from such height does lay bare patterns you otherwise can't see.
And I recognized a lot of the beauty myth's insidious influence in my own life, and feel a little more able to deal with that now.
I found the last chapter hopeful and helpful.Also, I've never felt more secure in my body and my self.
This book really helps you appreciate your glorious self, and laugh at any agency that tries to make you feel insecure.
Відповідно, "краса" не може бути запорукою впевненості, бо хіба існує щось більш хистке за неї?Ну і звісно, багато місця присвячено проблемам анорексії, булімії, пластичної хірургії, тобто тим практикам, які теж зумовлені бажанням бути дотичною до "краси", але натомість відчужують жінку від власного тіла.Цікаво, що Вулф вдається оминути звинувачення чоловіків у проблемі міфу про "красу", бо ж натомість вона пророкує, що в майбутньому (яке, по суті, вже зараз, бо книга вийшла 1990 р.) чоловіки так само можуть страждати від міфу про "красу", що буде направлений у їхній бік.
