https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8341567-the-perfect-play
5 stars – Contemporary/Sports Erotic RomanceThoughts Before Reading:OHHH-MYYY-GAWWWD!!
I have absolutely zero saliva left after staring at this epitome of cover HOTness!
Seriously, call a doctor quick 'cause I think I've swallowed my tongue.Thoughts After Reading:I think a review for this book is about the equivalent of crotchless panties or raspberry sauce on chocolate cake...totally unnecessary.
I mean with a tongue swallowing, eyes bulging cover like this, who really gives a @%*$ what the story is, right?
And yes, the sex is as satisfying and as smokin’ HOT as the cover!
5 studtastic stars!
Just in time for the upcoming Super Bowl is Jaci Burton's smokin' hot new release, The Perfect Play. And what a perfect sports romance it is! Starting with the gorgeous cover... (C'mon, how can you resist that cover model?)Things just get better after that. The story has an almost Cinderella-like feel to it. Mick Riley (30) is Mr. Tall (6 1/2 feet), Dark (black hair, blue-eyed) and Sexy (killer physique); a millionaire superstar quarterback for the San Francisco Sabers. Mick's a hard working ath
Mick and Tara embark on a relationship, and what a hot, sexy ride it is!
There's oodles of juicy hot sex, of course, and there's plenty of wining and dining of (the initially reluctant) Tara by Mick.
At first it didn't matter to me, because Tara was still thinking that the relationship may just be all about the sex, but once you knew their feelings went beyond that...I don't know, I was just kind of waiting for it, and didn't get it.
But to see a woman get so emotionally worked up because the guy she's dating admitted he partied too much in high school and now he chooses to abstain because he realized he was drinking way too much back then?
Maybe because I know how much it can wreck lives, I was very disappointed in how ridiculous this particular version of alcoholism seemed like a silly plot device.This is the woman's reaction when she figures out why "Mick" has refused her offers of a drink over the past few weeks.
But she waited, not asking, knowing it had to come from Mick."I'm an alcoholic, Tara."The gut punch hurt.
This says it all: I have a ten week-old baby who wakes up every three hours, so sleep is a hot commodity right now. Yet I stayed up late to finish this book because I so wanted to see Mick and Tara get their happy ending. Loved the characters, particularly the hero, who is protective and alpha without being overbearing or angst-y. And it's quite a hot read!
I will admit I bought this book because of the cover.
3,5 Playing Stars.Tara is a single mother, who got pregnant when she was just a teenager and manage to raise her son alone and create her own business.
But between being a single mother, his public life and secrets buried in the past, this will probably be the hardest game Mick ever had to play.
If you want to read a quick, romantic and very steamy book, this a good choice.
I really didn’t like Liz, so I don’t know if I want to read the next book, considering is about her.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes.
It seemed their relationship was based on sex and hardly more, though I knew they were getting close.Tara was overly judgmental of Mick when she had no reason to be.
In the end, it seemed Tara was looking for a reason to leave Mick.Another of my irritations with Tara was her oddly out of place, take charge attitude in the bedroom.
She kept declaring when she was going to come, how close she was to coming, how what Mick was doing would make her come, how she wanted to come...it was just out of place and too much.
3.5. I suppose I should bump it up to four for the cover cos that is serioulsy HOT. Loved Mick and his family. Tara was a bit harder to like - why was she trying so hard NOT to have a relationship with him. OK, she was a single mother of a teenage son but she was entitled to a life and happiness too. Don't know the first thing about American Football but I wouldn't mind being down the dressing room after a game ....
When the two meet at an event Tara plans, neither of them have any idea where they're going to end up.Tara doesn't want a parade of men in and out of her life because of the bad example it will set for her son — and because she's never really had any reason to trust men.
But the emotion isn't lacking either, and by the end you'll be delighted, as I was, when Tara opens herself to the possibility of being with Mick and Mick straightens out his priorities, making a firm decision about what matters most to him in life.My only quibble with the book is that I wanted an epilogue.
There is some family and career drama, lots of sexy times, and a few funny moments...and they get a HFN ending.POV: This alternated between focusing on Tara and Mick in 3rd person narrative (not my favorite).Overall Pace of Story:  Good until the end (see closure section).
(view spoiler)[- Does Not have cheating- Does Not have a descriptive sex scene with OW/OM-  Does have the h pushing the H away-  Does have a short separation between the h and H-  Does Not have abuse-  Does Not have OTT sad parts- Does Not have a HEA ending (hide spoiler)]
All the problems would have been cleared up if the heroine would have asked the hero one single question but instead she wouldn’t let him get a word and would disappear in a huff.
Imagine that you’re reading a book where the heroine is very shy but decides to run for office.
The former makes you sympathize and admire her courage, the latter makes you think “so what?” and that’s the feeling I got reading this book.I did like a few things.
The rest was just predictable and boring.So if you want to imagine how it feels to be swept up your feet by a gorgeous, famous, rich man, then this book might be enough for you.
4,5/5 en realidad.La historia de amor y los personajes me han gustado mucho. Seguro que pronto leo la segunda parte :)
I mean body.- A little game of you touch mine and I will touch yours.-Naked touch football, naked twister, naked wrestling EtcYou get my point this is one hot cover.
I mean be into me.Now for the story, I was like ‘Meh’ through it all, I really did enjoy the whole sexy man fall in love with girl next-door type.
By odd I mean, it just felt like they were trying to go too far with it, and then it just sort of fizzled out, by the third sex scene I was pretty much done for.
Tara was predictably annoying the entire book, the basis for her character was that she was a single mum working to support her teenage son, but for the majority of the book she was either apologising for her son being a burden or burdening him off to other people.
I was not invested one bit in what happened to the characters, the only people who had real personality were Mick's family, everybody else was predictable.
The characters are richly developed and the plot, though somewhat cliché, is engaging and fun to read.
I really love this book!The characters are fantastic and realistic.
Mick and Tara, the hero and heroine, are full of flaws and strengths.
I thoroughly enjoyed Tara's son Nathan.
Tara relationship with Nathan was realistic and poignant.
As a single mother, Tara's insecurity and concerns in raising her 14-year-old son alone, brought a vulnerability to her character that made her extremely endearing to me.
Other than that, I love this wonderfully written, extremely erotic, and very endearing love story.
เปนหนังสือทีขาดความคม ... ความคมในทีนีคือเนือเรือง ตัวละคร บทสนทนา ทุกอยางดูเบลอๆ ไมคอยโดดเดน เนือเรืองไหลไปเรือยๆ ไมมีอะไรใหลุน เดาได กเลยไมตืนเตนเทาไร อานจบแลวยังงมหาจุดพีคอยูเลยวามันอยูตรงไหน (คือกอนหนานีอยากอานงานทีอารมณพีคๆหนอย) แตสรุปกคือไมเจอนะ! 555 สิงทีนาสนใจในเรืองนีกคือความสัมพันธระหวางทารากับนาธาน สวนมิคเราวาประเดน alcoholic ไมเหนจะเปนเรืองใหญอะไรเลย เดียวนี celebrity อัพยากันกเยอะนะ เอะ ! รึวาเราจะหัวสมัยใหมไป ฮาๆบรรยากาศในเนือเรืองเปนการแขงขันอเมริกันฟุตบอล ซึงเบอรตันไมไดยัดรายละเอ

Aside from this book being uninteresting, I was baffled that two grown-ups were having such simple misunderstandings when they can just text or call each other.Tara Lincoln was an event planner who was trying to make a name in San Francisco when she landed a huge contract to plan a preseason party for a professional football team.
She later finds out that Mick is a quarterback for the professional football team, but they didn’t really discuss this “thing” being anything more.
Tara and Mick were good at having sex but discussing life and how to have adult relationships, they were quite juvenile in their actions.
*2'5*Hay ciertos detalles, esos que se descubrieron poco a poco, que me gustaron mucho, pero sinceramente no disfrute de la lectura del libro, demasiadas escenas de sexo, desde demasiado pronto, para mi a esta historia para ser una historia romántica le faltan muchos sentimientos, para mi es un libro de erótica más que de romántica. Un chasquito lector porque no seguiré leyendo ni a la autora ni la serie :/
1.5 stars
*gulp*I will admit, I had pretty high expectations for this book and although the sex certainly lived up to the hawt cover, the story didn’t.
I thought the beginning was engaging enough.
Tara Lincoln, an events planner finds herself under the watchful eye of Mick Riley, the star football player who is just pure sex.
I loved the beginning and thought they had amazing chemistry.
THE SEX WAS HAWT!!!But when Tara starts making lame excuses to stay away from Mick, I started to get annoyed.
Be. Consistent.In the end, the story didn’t hold my attention like the cover did.
I could stare at the cover forever.I ain’t lying.
Este libro hice que me interesara por el Fútbol Americano, aunque sus menciones no son tan significativas, llamo mi atención y este protagonista es un amor de hombre, con un pasado comun pero que le da un toque significativo e importante dentro de la historia.
C'mon!So, some people would probably point out, that this an erotic book.FINE!!
You want to call that sexy???Fine!
Second...fifth...tenth time...(eye rolling, while at the same wishing that someone would shut their mouths!)....loosing count: Oh, shut up already!!So while we see their relationship developing, that situation is never transported to what they do behind closed doors...or out in the open in the beach....i just found that strange.And then there's the (view spoiler)[tongue....situation (hide spoiler)]...Don't read the following part, if you're easily embarassed:(view spoiler)[ Kissing, and sticking a tongue in the anus ...not sexy, not erotic....just plain, UGH!!
I think the cover is tainting me because it is the hottest cover ever and because of it I want to say "I really liked it" but, the book wasn't as good.
I definitely liked the book- did I mention the hot cover- and I will read the next in series but, the story just felt forced, predictable and too perfect.
Some of this sex talk was pretty good and was a turn on, but when their love and relationship developed it didn't fit and I cringed a little bit.
Soooo, let's just say I got disappointed over this book. I knew like 10% into the book, or less, that The Perfect Play wasn't the perfect book for me. I was too bored, too annoyed over the characters' ways of doing things. I kinda wanted to slap Tara Lincoln (30?) for being so....god what's the word? Naive? Stuck in her own mind? I don't know. I understand that her son come first no matter what, but that doesn't mean you can use him as an excuse, woman.   “Ready-made family, huh?”  Mick Riley (3
I was too bored, too annoyed over the characters' ways of doing things.
Also felt that I didn't really get a connection with the characters.
I felt like I was on the outside looking in and the story wasn't all that fascinating to watch.
Way too predictable, too lovey-dovey, and worst part was that I felt that insta-love feeling.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating?
- (view spoiler)[No.
- (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]HEA?
- (view spoiler)[Yes..
(hide spoiler)]Would I read more by this author/or of series?
- No, but who knows.Would I recommend this book/series?
“Mmmmm, pepperoni. Perfect, indeed.”So in love ❤THIS BOOK WAS HA OMG FULL OF PASSION LUST LOVEAND I LOVED it actually despite the other reviews I read before finishing the book! So it sorta surprised me when i could read it! Ahhaha guess everyones diff huh ahhahReally loved it ❤️
Why have I not read any comments about this book before!?
The Perfect Play was one of the best books I have read in a while.The characters were amazing, all of them.
This is one of those books which actually gives you the whole package: you have family, amazing values, a great alpha hero and a Strong heroine with more than air inside her head.
I has such an amazing time with this book.
So if you guys love contemporary romance, this is the book you all have been waiting for.
Mick and Tara meet right at the start of the book, and they had never met before.
But not only was he gorgeous, he was also funny and was interested in her and her career, and she liked spending time with him.”So Tara knows all this about him by page TEN?
She has lived her life always so worried about her son, that just because she meets Mick and does develop feelings for him that doesn’t change who she is.
Yes, look at that cover again – Jaci Burton writes very, very hot smex and the scenes are quite plentiful in this book.
MICK...makes me think "OH MICKEY YOUR SO FINE" =)This book went straight to the top as one of my favorties.
Mick is super sexy, super caring with a secret that made me fall even more in love with him.
I fell in love with him when the cover first came out, who wouldn't ;)Tara - WOW, what a strong woman and the way she grew up and the results were amazing!!!
I can relate to most of her feelings and thoughts about Nathan.I read this book on the coldest night of the year yet and it definitely kept me warm =)
This book was okay overall. Not good or bad just okay. Honestly I hated Tara's character and that ruined it for me. She was just so irrating in my opinion. She made her son an excuse not to go out with Mick. Her sons a teenager who barely talks to her. I mean she's just annoying. Mick I liked him, he was the one thing in This book that made me not hate it. The overall book, story, plot was boring. Im rating this 2.75 stars.
Kapaktaki kimmiş öğrenelim de kampanya falan başlatıp Biscolata reklamlarına katalım :)) Sırf kapak için okunabiliritesi var :D3,5.Mick candır :)
