https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4965.Year_of_Wonders
This, I thought, must be the kindness that God does for them and for us, since He gives so many infants such a little while to bide with us.” 1666 was not a good year for England with bubonic plague killing 100,000 people followed by The Great Fire of London which destroyed 80% of London or about 13,000 homes.
It is hard for us to conceive of a disease that can show up one day and within a few short months kill 75% of the people we know.
Anna, though besot by her own demons, does the best she can to not only survive her personal losses, but also make the fateful decision to devout her life providing help and succor to those who need it most.
They saw it as a test of their faith and trust toward God, and felt that they would be blessed beyond all measure once the plague left them.Author Geraldine Brooks tells this story through the eyes of Anna, a young widow with 2 very small children to support.
Human beings definitely have the capacity for both extreme nobility of spirit, as well as extreme barbarism.If Brooks had left the story of the plague village at page 255, I would have happily accorded this wonderful book a cherished slot in my bulging bookcase and marked it as "favorite" on these, my Goodreads shelves.
I would have given this a higher rating if not for the strange ending.
After reading "Long Man", by Amy Greene, not long ago....I was craving to read about another female character that 'might' remind me of Annie Clyde Dodson.
I also wanted the story - like "Long Man" to be inspired by true events....and last...I wanted the writing to be gorgeous - rich, beautiful prose.....character driven...realistic...I wanted to get in touch with that 'feeling' which is different than the many modern contemporary novels I read.
"YEAR of WONDER" was the perfect choice ....it satisfied what I was longing for.
If you liked "Long Man", you'll love "Year of Wonder".....or vice versa).
Anna Frith resides in a remote village where a bolt of cloth delivered from London brings with it the bubonic plague.
Guided by a vision bestowed upon the town minister, Anna and her village elect to quarantine themselves, hoping to prevent the plague from spreading.
Anna soon faces far greater perils than the devastating plague.
Eighteen-year-old Anna Frith remains a fascinating character from start to finish.
I used to wonder if it was so because the memory of Heaven still lived within them, so that in leaving here they do not fear death as we do, who no longer know with certainty where it is our spirits go.
Year of Wonders, Geraldine Brooks 2001 novel describes the plague years of 1666 and concludes with a very unusual and somewhat unbalanced ending. While reading I thought of Arthur Miller’s The Crucible and of course Camus’ The Plague (and I forgive her much about the ending for the mention of Oran which could NOT have been coincidence). This is simply, elegantly written and yet the force and brutality of the plot, told in such straightforward prose is also reminiscent of Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God (another obvious and brilliant reference) – relentless and shocking.
A lot of people have complained about this book being slow, but I found it beautifully paced for what it was about--after all, the title is "Year of Wonders," which kind of sets up an expectation and timeframe right away.
The pace helped set up a world, a time when things moved more slowly, when people were more thoughtful, when people paid attention to the seasons and nature.
I liked the evolution of the protagonist, the way she gained power and still moved within her role in society.
That being said, the ending just friggin' killed it for me.
Bad, like "Who killed Bobby Ewing?" bad.
Year of Wonders tells the story of Anna, a servant to a pastor, and how she emotionally and physically survives the plague while the majority of her village falls ill around her.I was enthralled.
Mainly, she's just overwhelmed by what's going on and wants to feel loved and safe.She cares for the ill, helps an orphaned child hold on to her family's lead mine and tries to help her village keep body and soul together.The ending of Year of Wonders was incredibly shocking to me, but in a good way.
Or rather, it’s George Eliot – you can’t compete; don’t even try.So I put it down and picked up Louise Erdrich (not literally, you silly thing).
Because every book of historical fiction I read is going to need to measure up to the standards she set in Wolf Hall and Bring Up The Bodies: the level of detail; the shaping of the character on the page from the inside out – never mind describing the clothes or using the words of a 17th C courtier, take me into his mind and thoughts so thoroughly that I inhabit that character with you.
Brooks shows the stages of the contagion, from the first plague death, a boarder in Anna’s home, to the clear spread of pestilence to increasing numbers of residents, to the hysteria of the ignorant, looking for someone to blame.
The payload in Year of Wonders is the up close and personal look Brooks offers of what it was like to live through the Black Death, both in glimpses of the physical travails suffered by plague victims and in the impact of the steep population reduction on the functioning of society.The late 17th Century was the era of the Restoration.
Year of Wonders is a historical novel about a small English town 100 miles outside of London.
As we follow the rest of the town through its year of isolation, we watch Anna, who begins as a lowly maid, transformed into a strong woman who the town begins to depend on for herbal remedies to just about every malady, in addition to becoming the only midwife in town (after an unfortunate incident that leaves the former midwife dead).When I first saw this book I knew it was going to be an easy read, merely because of its length (only 336 pages!).
Jedna od mojih prvih "uredničkih" kupovina... neposredno posle Harija Potera... Odličan roman o crnoj smrti, ili kugi u Engleskoj... Nažalost, objavljena je u pogrešnoj ediciji i nije joj posvečena adekvatna pažnja... ali potražite je u bibliotekama... A još bolje, pročitajte je u originalu ako ste u mogućnosti...
I'd like to entitle this review How I Wish I Liked Geraldine Brooks More and subtitle it (for dramatic effect) How I Narrowly Escaped the Plague.True story: Last year, right before Labor Day here in the States, our dog became somewhat lethargic and had swelling around his neck.
I had spent several days combing him and vacuuming the house like Sylvia Plath.I wondered, why did he ask?The vet shifted his weight uncomfortably and said, “Well, as you may know, we have confirmed cases of the bubonic plague here, and, between what I'm seeing in the fluid I've extracted, and your experience with the rabbits and fleas.
I loved reading this becauseI've known the story since I was very small & been to the placeThe prota
I came to the book knowing of the sacrifice of that village and knowing, too, that when people sacrifice in such a way they are abundantly blessed by God. Unfortunately, the latter was completely missing in this book.
However, unlike the survivors of Eyam, we have their own words of the experience and as one survivor said, “The price we paid to become acquainted with God was a privilege to pay.” Surely there were miracles in that village as they sacrificed for the good of their people.

There goes just about all of the herblore for the village, forcing Elinor and Anna to learn everything on their own.-Drug abuse (poppies in this case)-Child abuse-A crude form of crucifixion of Anna's father after he tries to kill someone in order to claim the victim's goods as payment for digging a grave (the previous person who did that died of a heart attack from overwork, another cheery note).-Anna's step mother, Aphra, going crazy from grief both from losing her own children (yes, lots and lots of children die) and having her husband die from the aforementioned crucifixion after Anna does not go to free him (she expected Aphra to do it but Aphra was at her home taking care of her children who all came down with the plague in shortly after the crucifixion).
I'm still reading the novel and must admit it's really gripped me. The novel presents the atmosphere in a 17th century remote English village during the Plague, but not only, it describes a small rural community, the beginnings of mining, witch hunting and superstitions, all of which ultimately lead to dramatic events. Also, the language is exeptionally powerful, you do not read it as a historical novel written in modern times. I did enjoy reading the novel as it's always interesting to observe how people, unable to leave the place, behave towards each other when confronted with a problem.
They sought a reason why this plague had come upon them, to understand...why was God punishing them or was he testing them?My favorite part of the novel was the friendship between Anna and Mrs. Montpellier, which has been strengthened by the tragedy is really beautiful to read and you can't help but love both of them and stand in awe of their strength.The ending is a bit of a rollercoaster with the revealing of secrets and hidden desires realized.
He was the first villager who succumbed to the plague with many more following.The story is narrated by Anna Frith, a shepherdess who also spent a few hours daily as a servant in the rectory.
The rector's wife Elinor works with Anna nursing the sick, and preparing herbal tonics to strengthen people.
The villagers turn to superstitions, magic charms, fasting and flagellation, and devil worshiping in the hope that something might stop the spread of the plague.
There are a few twists and surprises in Anna's life at the end of the story.
This was a really good historical fiction book, I have never read anything from this era before.
This is a fascinating insight into the lives of ordinary people under extraordinary circumstances.
The overall concept for the book is based on a factual story of a village under siege from the plague.
It is difficult to imagine such an illness without the medical knowledge we possess today, it is no wonder people driven by fear believe in all kinds of superstition and far fetched cures.
Highly recommended to historical fiction fans and everyone who enjoys a good story told well.
So I looked forward to reading "Year of Wonders", primarily because I loved the topic, I loved the time period, I loved the location and because I thought Brooks would be able to impart something different to the story.I was not impressed.
Women were strong, intelligent and outspoken, men were either enlightened or bought into the patriarchal hegemony, and in the end, the novel showed how the human spirit overcame everything bad that was thrown at it.
I thought that some of her characterizations and descriptions were better suited for a novel set a century later, not in 1666.
Read about it and "its blows fall and fall again upon raw sorrow." Its words will carry you through "a patchwork of grays," for it is not just a sense of melancholy that drives the mood of this novel; rather, it is an abhorrent obscurity.
A closely knit community of miners and shepherds and weavers, they were.Read and you will learn about their puritan ways and the plague that claimed many lives in their village.
About the radical minister who was their leader and the surprising turn his life takes at the end ("His body is strong but I fear that the strength of his will far exceeds it.
Secondly, I felt the narrator was a bit of a Mary Sue, in that she seemed to me--a rabid historical fiction fan as a teenager--to be an idealised version of what we think we'd like to have been like if we'd lived in the past.
Still, almost impossible to avoid in historical fiction, I would hazard a guess.Another reservation was that I felt that the action got way too ramped up towards the end of the novel.
I mean, it was brutal and visceral (and extremely unlikely, I'd have thought), but when she fell to die poetically on the luscious blooms she had just conveniently carried to church (never having done so before) and then dropped to the ground--well, really.
I felt however that the story became so flawed and was so inconsistently paced that by the final page I had lost all respect for the novel as a whole.
If you have not read the book [and still intend to do so] please stop reading for I will probably ruin it for you but the amount crammed into the final 20 pages was so utterly ludicrous that the story completely fell down and you felt like you were reading a piece of creative writing written by a GCSE student who is running out of time in an exam.
It’s been a village of farmers and lead miners, and few are left to tend to anything.But Anna is young, and in spite of everything (and believe me, there is a LOT of everything), she does notice new life.
I wonder if it is indifference, or whether , like me, others are so brimful of endings that they cannot bear to wrench even a scrawny sapling from its tenuous grip on life.”Then we’re plunged backward into “Spring, 1665”, with Anna (wife and mother), beginning to deal with the Black Death, and the villagers deciding to close the gates following Reverend Mompellion’s advice.
As nearly two-thirds of the inhabitants sicken and die, our 18 year old heroine joins forces with the rector and his wife to minister to the living, dying, and dead, and try to prevent the village from descending into superstition and barbarity.
It’s a fast read, and guaranteed to make you feel really good about living in the 21st century.
All through the book a couple of characters display obviously modern sensibilities, but the end really does seem to go off the rails with bizarre plot twists more suitable to a supermarket paperback than good historical fiction.
Ah me, I'm afraid I had to reach for the smelling salts many times during Brooks' depiction of the plague's rampage through a small village in central England in the year 1666.
The characters spring to full-blown life from the author's imagination: preachers, servant girls, noble people who take on the roles of "heavies", Puritans, Anglicans, Ancients and children, and most vividly drawn, witches performing white and black magic.
The Plague comes to the village on a bolt of material a tailor brought from London.
The tailor is a lodger with a young widow, the narrator and so, naturally, a survivor of the Year of Wonder.
I honestly have two totally different ranks for this book: one of the first 200 pages and one of the last fifty.
If I weren't reading on my computer, I'd throw it across the room.Year of Wonders is inspired by a true story of a village called Eyam in England, which experienced an outbreak of the plague in 1666.
No, just no.Entertainment ValueDespite my anger at the fact that the last few pages of the book take place in some alternate universe with characters who do not in any way resemble the characters we've established throughout the rest of the novel, I actually was quite entertained by the whole thing.
Started this as an audiobook, but the narrator was terrible.
The story is loosely based upon the actual present plague village in Derbyshire, the source of contagion still debated.
1666 was a tough year for the country: the great plague, a Dutch invasion, the great fire.
Somehow the plague spread to this little hamlet and killed two-thirds of the population during the year of disease.
Our narrator is the creation of the author.
Death is balanced with new life; spells and incantations with true physic.
Some true accounts researched by the author are interspersed with possible events imagined.
