https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209889.Dreadnought
Rather, naval arms race between Great Britain and imperial Germany is used as a red thread binding together a story that starts in the middle of Victorian era and ends with the outbreak of the Great War.The good news is that “Dreadnought” is very possibly one of the top five history books I have read so far, and I have read quite a few of them by now.
The end result is stunning.Final chapters of “Dreadnought” are worth special praise, because they show very different picture of politicians that led Europe to the disaster of World War I.
Now, anyone who has taken the time to think about World War I knows that it is a nearly-intractable subject when it comes its genesis.
Massey's theory, which is as good as any, I suppose, is that Kaiser Wilhelm's desire to have a top notch fleet butted roughly against England's necessity of controlling the oceans.
The man who comes off best is England's foreign secretary, Sir Edward Grey (this is interesting, since Grey is much maligned in other histories I've read.
It was then that the unpoetic Sir Edward Grey uttered the lines which memorably signaled the coming of the First World War.
It does not tell the neatly wrapped story of the origins of WWI, nor does it focus exclusively on the naval armaments race between the British and German empires.
All aspects of the rising antagonism between the Great Powers of Europe make an appearance in the flesh, resurrected from contemporary sources down to entire conversations quoted ad verbatim.
Here, two Jewish businessmen make a last-minute bid to ease the Anglo-German antagonism by inviting Lord Haldane for a mission.The Leitmotif of the book is the naval race.
The War that Ended Peace: How Europe abandoned Peace for the First World Warby Margaret MacMillan
The Sleepwalkers: How Europe Went to War in 1914 by Christopher Clark
Highly recommended if you want to know more about the people and events leading up to the Great WarCentral theme in the book is the race between Great Britain and Germany for naval supremacy.
Germany, being the central great industrial power on the continent, had a great army but lacked in naval arms.The story starts in 1897, with the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Victoria and the review of the Royal Navy in Portsmouth.
We see the events leading up to the start of the Great War, the way diplomacy saved the day a few times, but in the end it was all in vain.
This is an outstanding work of narrative history, featuring a detailed account of the gradually deteriorating relationship between Britain and Germany from the mid-19th century up to the outbreak of WWI.
Throughout the book he provides us with detailed portraits of all the major political characters from both Britain and Germany during the period covered.
The book ends with the leading British politicians sitting in the Cabinet Room, staring at the telephone that linked to the Foreign Office, and listening to the clock as it ticked towards the expiry of Britain’s ultimatum to Germany over the invasion of Belgium.
Even today, we more casual students of World War I think of the appalling trenches of Flanders and Northern France, yet, horrible as they were, over-reliance on themes and tropes of land war often distract us amateurs to the crucial naval battles of the "Great War." Dreadnought, with its great length and greater insight, requires patience but in this reviewer's opinion that patience will be well rewarded.
Now, when I read general histories of the Great War, I expect the naval as well as military components to be served.
In a word...........fantastic. One of, if not the best, histories of the build-up of sea powere between Great Britain and Germany prior to WWI. This should be read as a preface to "Castles of Steel" also by Massie. The highest recommendation.
He colours this broad canvas of almost 50 - 60 years (1850 - 1914) with anecdotes and petit histoire that gives an almost voyeurish view in the heads and lives of the people involved.Although supposedly focussing on the naval arms race between Germany and Britain (hence the title "Dreadnought"), it is more about political and diplomatic history, describing the way the carefully balanced system of European treaties and safeguards set up by Bismarck, was broken down both by Kaiser Wilhelm II and his chancellors.
Looking for information on the Battle of Jutland, or the design or evolution of the Dreadnought, or role of navel power in World War I?
However, If you want to learn more of Queen Victoria's offspring and the evolution of European relations up to the start of World War I, then this is the book for you.
Anything you want to know about crisis leading to the war are covered.
Dreadnought is well worth the read if you are interested in the period coming to the start of World War I.
Fascinating book, if you like 900 pages of looming catastrophe, which I do.
Mostly, the book deals with the ridiculous, expensive naval build-up between the naval powers between c.
1890 to 1914, and we all know what happened in 1914.
The folly of man and governments is boundless and apparently eternal, and I highly recommend this book to quench any election fever you might be feeling (whomever you’re voting for).
It is surprisingly readable – nice genial prose, and I only got bogged down when the various treaty negotiations got too tortuous.
Anyone who wants to understand how the Great War came about should read this book. the War was about more than the asassination of Franz Ferdinand, competition between Russia and Austria-Hungary for dominion over Slavs, French resentment of Germany's Franco-Prussian War victory. This book provides the missing piece to the puzzle. And it's a history book that reads like a novel.
Magnificent on every level. Encompasses military, social and economic history. Political shenanigans, personalities, biography, nationalism, jingoism and, of course the mightiest battleship of them all. Recommended without hesitation.
A great focus is placed on the German and English naval arms race with consideration to the major players.In some ways this book is a collection of biographies on those 'great' men of this age.
Facts which to a great many seem to lurk in the great deeps as rusty hulks, Massie however does his part to salvage much of this history with a book of superb relevance.I found this book to be an excellent read while being quite exciting, very interesting and most certainly detailed to the point that I wish that I had taken notes !In my estimations this is one of the best naval books written about this crucial period.
This is a huge book (ok the title Dreadnought implies huge...) and it took me a while to read in sma
This book is wonderful; meticulously researched, mind boggling in its scope and clearly the work of a master biographer. The one downside? It was SO. VERY. LONG. Massie could have written a series of mini biographies on each of the historical figures in this book and still had enough material to write a comfortable, thousand word bestseller. Definitive. Visionary. Incredible. INFINITE.
This is a comprehensive history of the British-German relations in the years leading to WWI. Not only are we introduced to the details of the original arms race, but we get short biographic snapshots of the leading figures on both sides, both on the military and especially the political side. The book is exhaustive and fascinating for the students of the European geopolitics and military history.
I feel like I just completed a triathlon . Filled in all the details I'll ever want to know about a period of history that I only had a fuzzy modicom of knowlege of .
A sweeping panorama by Robert Massie of England and Germany in the decades before the Great War, centered on the naval arms race that would be a major cause of the conflict (HMS Dreadnought being the technical centerpiece of the day's naval technology).
The book isn't limited to diplomatic or naval history but tells us of society and political controversy in the same manner as Barbara Tuchman's The Proud Tower: A Portrait of the World Before the War, 1890-1914, but with new detailing.
Though the book does get bogged down from time to time in litanies of ship tonnage and gunnery, it makes up for it with an equally amusing chapter about the eccentric captains of the Royal Navy.
(One naval captain even kept a pet bear aboard his ship.
When he sailed into port, the excited bear would jump into the water, swim over to nearby boats and climb in, much to the shock of the boat's inhabitants.) Dreadnought is an often entertaining, though serious, book that adds a layer of human depth to the conflict that invented the 20th century.
So that took a while, to be fair I picked it up immediately after I bought it, read 100 pages and then put it down. Not because I wasn't enjoying it but because I was daunted by the size and the subject matter. But I resolved that in 2016 I would finally commit to finishing this book. And I finally did it, and it was really good.
Massie is a great author and historian. I devour with pleasure each book he has written.
Don't let the title fool you; a better title would be something like, "The Nineteenth Century Naval Arms Race That Helped Set the Stage for a World War, With Biographic Sketches of a Full Range of Supporting Characters of Many Nations, Giving Particular Emphasis to British and German Politicians, Diplomats, and Naval Personages." If you're looking for a book about ships, you'll find them here and in abundance, but they're not Massie's focus.
I say characters intentionally, because this reads like a gripping novel more often than not -- includes: Queen Victoria, Otto von Bismarck, Winston Churchill, Admiral Jackie Fisher, Admiral von Tirpitz, Gladstone, Balfour, Bulow, Cambon, Chamberlain, NIcholas II, Grey, Lloyd George, etc.Random impressions:* Wilhelmine Germany wasn't quite the modern state we're familiar with.
Robert Massie’s ‘Dreadnought’ is a book with an ambitious goal: to present fifty years of European history through the prism of Anglo-German relations and to show how this rivalry was the driving force behind the tragic slipping of Europe into the First World War. To accomplish this Massie focuses on the naval arms race that began with the launching of HMS Dreadnought in 1906 and ended in year after year of deteriorating diplomatic relations as both Britain and Germany built battleship after battleship.
Massie's thesis initially struck me as a bit wide of the point given the relatively small role of the navies in what was overwhelmingly a land war, but throughout this lengthy book he discusses the important part naval development played in directing the course of the war.
Despite the special emphasis he places on the role of sea power, the book doesn't avoid relevant discussions of larger issues he, as the author is really driving at the myriad factors that conspired to bring about the conflict: the political developments which shaped it, the political landscape that helped cultivate it, and the myriad characters involved whose fortes and foibles had so significant an influence on it.
Somewhat classical in its approach--great persons, great events, great battles--but I find it interesting only because I've been looking for a good European history read for some time, and I know very little about any of the subjects in this book.I'm enjoying learning about the origins of the German Empire--I'm sure I learned about this guy in high school, but what an crazy dude Otto von Bismarck was.
He defeated Denmark, Austria, and France all in separate engagements, eventually leading to the unopposed creation of the German Empire.
I have read Massie's books about Nicholas & Alexander and Peter the Great, which I enjoyed, but Dreadnought, while good, is inferior.
However, there is plenty of good reading, particularly Section 3, which deals with the Naval transformation from sail to steam and from wood to iron and steel, and the evolution of the dreadnoughts.
The early life of Churchill and the events following the murder of Franz Ferdinand are also good.So enjoy the book, but be prepared to skim over some parts.
I came to a realization last night that almost every time I open this book, I'm put into a catatonic coma shortly after reading for about 30 minutes.
This book is not only a monster in scope - a tomb as one might say, but it is so over the top specific to the point of never-ending.
I am not sure most readers need as much informaiton about the minutae of the players of the time.
So I've stopped at page 420 of 907 (book is 100 pages of biliography) because I have a huge library of other books to focus my love of reading back on.
Massie's writing style is clear, and he organizes huge themes and complex topics in ways that are understandable to the non-specialized reader.
Nevertheless, this is an extremely long book, and quite a commitment for anyone who is not totally obsessed with the topic.
Also, Massie focuses on political and military aspects of history.
The deeper social trends, how the experiences and views of the "unwashed masses" may have influenced events is simply not within his area of interest.
Thus, for someone who, like me, is interested in how and to what extent these events influenced "ordinary" people, this book was often tough going.
Only sporadically do we see flashes of Massie's wonted brilliance.
The bulk of this book (and oh, what a bulk) is hopelessly entangled in the pedantries of political harrumphing: hard to follow, and unenjoyable.
Massie does paint his characters with a vivid hand and a sympathetic touch- none of his mastery is diminished.
But the subject matter does not lend itself to his particular talent.
There's too much logistics, too much tangled statecraft, and Massie's forte has always been the portrayal of human characters.
This would have been saved by a narrower focus and a dose of personality.
This takes you on a ride through time and place to deliver an impeccable view of the history leading up to the First World War.
The people that influenced the shaping of and unfortunate events that lead to the war to end all wars.
Although incredibly detailed and sometimes to the extreme, it ended up wrapping the context into reality.
I highly recommend to those who enjoy the exacts of history as I do.
Sit back and enjoy a long ride into the British and German experience as never before.
