https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/469215.The_Silver_Darlings
Easy to hold up as an example of the ‘classic realist text’, yet therein lies one of its greatest mysteries: Gunn, cinematic in his descriptive powers, acutely penetrating in his observations of psychological relationships, and with a belly full of fire to locate human injustice in a broad context of the tradition of tragedy, pulls off the trick of making these ’realisms’ subordinate to an unstated but hauntingly real elsewhere.
Light, storm, glistening, fog, darkness, skies bluer than cornflowers, human forms as beautifully evoked as anything Byron ever did, plagues, purposeless suffering, hardship, all mixed in, always.
Also a long section about the effects of a devastating sickness (referred to as the plague) that rages through the community.Early in the book a whole chapter is devoted to Finn's early encounter with a butterfly, which is beautiful and touching as it explores the development of his relationship with nature"As he rounded the hazel treea butterfly rose from his feet.
It's a coming of age novel, not just in terms of Finn as an individual but for the communities that are developing the new industry of herring fishing as a way to secure themselves a brighter future.
not me.) Neil Gunn brings the atmosphere and perils of the sea into this novel along with the growth of Finn, his coming-of-age time, and the trials of a small fishing community in Scotland.
You and me – we are wanderers, who found a home.”Although wordy at times the author gives the reader a lot to think about and not just pictures of what life in Scotland used to be for so many that were living on the edge of poverty.
At times the book moved very quickly because I was right there with Finn, hoping someday to become a sailor himself and obtain his very own ship.
This was a slow reading book. But well worth it! Lovely descriptive writing that creates such atmosphere and puts you on the fishing boats. You can almost feel the spray and the emotion of the men. The time and the place this story is set in is portrayed beautifully.
Neil Gunn’s masterpiece “The Silver Darlings” can be successfully read at a number of levels. In one sense it is a lively and readable account of the herring boom which came to the east coast of Scotland after the defeat of Napoleon. At another level it is a sensitive and perceptive portrayal of the relationship of the three main characters: Catrine, her son Finn, and Roddie, the man she marries. At a further more philosophical level - reflecting Gunn’s interest in Zen - it symbolically examine
At another level it is a sensitive and perceptive portrayal of the relationship of the three main characters: Catrine, her son Finn, and Roddie, the man she marries.
Gunn introduces Finn, aged five, into the novel in the chapter “Finn and the Butterfly.” This is the chapter in which childhood bliss comes into conflict with and is tainted by the beginnings of adult knowledge.
Gunn shows us the Oedipal boy, torn by his love for his mother and his youthful hero-worship of Roddie, unable to come to terms with their needs as two people in love about to make a new life together.
This book was pure joy to read - the characters, the setting of Scotland just after the Napoleonic wars, when the herring fishing began, the evocative language.
It's the story of Catriona, who loses her husband to the Press Gang, and of her son Finn - his changing emotions and experiences as he grows up are brought out so vividly, so naturally.
What I loved most though, trapped here on shore due to ill health (but just wait till next summer, when I'm well again!) were the scenes at sea - the opening, with Torquil's first venture into fishing, and the two voyages round to the Western Isles, the first when Finn was fourteen, the second when he was master of his own ship.
This is a great read.
Even allowing for the fact that it runs to 600 pages, that’s a fair bit longer than I normally spend on a novel, and is an indication that I didn’t find it that engrossing.For better or worse, Neil Gunn is probably the best-known writer to emerge from the Scottish Highlands, having been born in 1894 in the tiny village of Dunbeath, in the far north-east of Scotland.
3.5? Enjoyed it and well worth reading, but I prefer some of his other books.
Lovely epic novel set in 19th century Scotland during the herring boom.
The solid water swept the soles of his feet, but the white spray covered him like a shroud…”One reader was reminded of the novels of Conrad, with the scenes of the companionship of men on the sea, and how they had to act together against the elements.Running as a thread through the somewhat episodic book was the development of the herring industry.
But his central story was the coming of age of Finn.His characters were very convincing.
Gunn had some of the same social concerns as Dickens for the impoverished, but, at least in this case, the novel did not have the same campaigning edge as Dickens…This is an extract from a review at http://monthlybookgroup.wordpress.com/.
Its rigid gender roles are understandable given the historical circumstances, but the way it uplifts manhood as a desirable status to the point of mythic worship give away a tendency to reclaim a glorious past rather than move forward.

During the months of its absence I kept thinking about it, but couldn't find it in the library and didn't want to buy it again on Amazon.
This book is unlike any I have ever read, and though it is really long and quite difficult to read because of the Scottish dialect (which I'm happy to have learnt while reading), finishing it was really satisfying, and I still think about it and some of the characters which have stayed with me for months.
I enjoyed this book a great deal. It's a little unusual for a novel in that conflict between characters is quite limited. The great antagonist is the sea, which simultaneously offers a hard-won livelihood and constantly threatens death. The descriptions of nature - especially of the sea - rank with the descriptive passages of Robert Louis Stevenson's travel writing. Occasionally the prose is a little florid when describing human emotion, and the book would benefit from being slightly shorter, but overall a very impressive achievement.
Read this 1941 novel while in Scotland and on the plane home. Long but engrossing. It starts with the clearances of the highlanders in the 18teens, the pressgangs then the birth of the herring industry. Lovely portrait of the central female character. Her husband was pressganged in the war with Napoleon when she was newly married and pregnant.It was 19 years before she knew whether he was alive or not. Great descriptions of the sea and the coast of Scotland. Passionate about the callousness of the absentee landlords.
Although this is a fictional account, Neil Gunn's writing brings the life of the fisher folk of north east Scotland so vividly to life one can be forgiven by thinking he was writing history. Delving deep into an industry that was always on the move, he follows the lives of the herring fleets, and the woman who do the hardest work and suffer the greatest loss when tragedy strikes, with intimate and enthralling detail.This is probably Gunn's best novel and puts him up among the best of Scottish writers.
In the interests of full disclosure, my great-grandfather was one of those fishermen on that coast just a few decades later, and I was born and grew up not many miles away. I know the coast and landscape intimately. This book speaks to me on so many levels. As a slice of history, as a portrait of people from whom I could have been descended, as a family drama. Marvelous from end to end.
Stunning. Absolutely gorgeous. So beautifully rendered. I was often lost in imagery, in emotion and in the trace between thought and memory. Breath-taking. I feel more human, and humanely available, for having experienced this book
The Silver Darlings painted a vivid, larger-than-life image of life on the Scottish coast when the Herring fisheries were beginning to thrive. Following a family through a whole generation, Neil Gunn uses beautiful and evocative prose to describe a strong and passionate fishing community.
Still stopped midway through...good but dense
Scottish fishing story. A bit of an acquired taste.
like watching paint dry
A wonderful character study of the brave fisherman on the northern coast of Scotland in the early 1800's.
Too tough and dull to plow through
Lovely Scots writer.
Manages to combine exciting episodes with passages so beautifully poetic I found myself re-reading paragraphs as I went along. Takes a bit of getting into, but then it won't let you go.
A classic by an underrated author. I read this when young and still regard it well.
A true picture of the indomitable Scottish spirit and the hard life of fishermen and their familiesAlso love the song by the Chieftains by the same name
Neil Gunn was born in Dunbeath, on the northeast coast of Scotland, and his books all have a sense of the place, and a touch of Celtic mysticism. The silver darlings are herring.
