https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65112.The_End
These were exceedingly longwinded, not especially humorous, painfully repetitive, and did not hold up exposition so much as replace it - as in "but that question can't be answered, because you just can't know every part of a story.")One of the things that bothered me the most was the unanswered question of why Snicket is documenting the Baudelaires' lives - particularly if he's going to just stop when he does.
I truly believe the series ought to stand alone - and certainly a book with a name like The End ought to answer questions that were raised during the story.
This book INFURIATED me! What a lazy author. Taking us down the garden path through 12 books and then ending the series without really completing the story. As a children's librarian, I no longer recommend this series to kids. I hate to see them as disappointed as I was at this really stupid final book. Shame on you, Mr. Snicket!! You took the chicken's way out. Next time, have an idea of where you expect the series to go before you start it. Truly shameful.
Like life and college, this book leaves you with more questions than answers.
He was one of the most difficult students I have ever had, and yet I was so sad to see him leave.
But when the end came, and only a few questions/hopes were answered, I realized I would miss him very much - and I would never get to see 'the end result'.Just like these books.
I zoomed through the books, hoping the next one would lead to more answers, when really I see how I should've simply enjoyed the ride.

Or be presented with the solution to many other puzzles teased throughout the series.The big reveal is that the books may have stopped ...
Trained sheep drag any useful flotsam and jetsam to the far side of the island where nobody ever goes (though they all firmly believe it's an island...)Count Olaf shines in this book.
what the hell do I do with it now?In conclusion I would say that this is an enjoyable series of books for children of a certain age and that if at any point you feel you've had enough of reading them ...
Oy, how annoying!Twelve books!
TWELVE books posing question after question and mystery after mystery with twists and intrigue and all that for what?
Not answers, that's for damn sure.This book didn't tie anything together.
Not cool.It was a little bit thought-provoking, I guess, but come on!
If I wanted thought-provoking, I'd have read a thought-provoking book.
To suddenly turn that all around into some awkward, half-ass Philosophy 101 lesson is bad form.So I'm a little pissed, as many people are.
It was like he couldn't think of a clever way to answer his own questions.
It was not as funny or exciting as the last few books in the series, but it might be more allegorical than all the rest.
To sum it all up, the biggest "problem" with this book is that it leaves many things unresolved.
This is one of the most profound things I've read recently.
It even explains things like divorce and taxes.I cannot say that "The End" is not a fitting end to the series--it bookends a sense of mystery and mysfortune--but it does not end our desire to know what happens in the lives of Violet, Klaus and Sunny Baudelaire.
I don't mean in a existentialist way, such as "Who am I?", "What am I doing here?" or "Why is there a person disguised as a bush standing on my rug?", but rather in a way that The End wasn't about answering all the questions and mysteries set in the previous unfortunate events to take place in the Baudelaires' lives.
The End was about how three intelligent, resourceful, and reasonably attractive orphans survived all sorts of misadventures and had their fair share of misfortune bestowed upon them.
After reading the last book I reevaluated all my ratings for this series because I realized I was a little harsh.
I was planning on doing a full series review but now I don’t think I can.
I only read this series because it was short and I needed to read it last year to catch up on my reading challenge but now I’ve realized I’m glad I read it.
I loved how Daniel Handler used Lemony Snicket as a pen name.
Its hard to explain but Lemony Snicket was an actual character in the story and was the narrator.
"...letting their tears run down their faces and into the sea, which some have said is nothing but a library of all tears in history."The. End.
I love this series and it's vague, eerie, surreal tone.
There's so much beautiful character development throughout the series that I didn't pick up as a child and I'm so, so glad I did this reread.
The struggle with their moral compass is so real and relevant for a children's book, and I plan to pass this book series down to all the quirky, precocious kids I know.
Después de tantísimo tiempo he podido terminar esta saga, y aunque me pone tristísimo que se haya acabado la historia de Violet, Klaus y Sunny; estoy mega feliz de ser libre.
Me ha cabreado un montón que no se hayan resuelto prácticamente ninguno de los misterios de la saga.
Me han hecho creer todo este tiempo que iba a entenderlo todo para al final dejarme con un montón de incógnitas.
Sin embargo creo que esta saga es "disfrutar del viaje".
En plan, que no importa el final de la saga y la conclusión, sino divertirse con las aventuras de los Baudelaires.
Rather than review all the Series of Unfortunate Events books individually, I'll just say this here: I loved this whole series, it's blackly funny and engaging and filled with so many little tricks and gags that could only possibly work in print fiction (which is why the movie was such a disaster), that they remind you why you love reading in the first place.For the record, around the third book I was worried that things were starting to get too formulaic and that I might be getting bored with them, but stick with it!
There's some repetition, but it's all building to something bigger!I'm putting this review on the last book of the series in order to say this: this is, seriously, one of the most brilliant and satisfying endings to a long-running series this side of The Kindly Ones.
Not an end I would've preferred but I still very much enjoyed it.
I like to think the Baudelaires are still out there somewhere, carrying on what their parents left behind and making life the best it could be.
I'd love to read about what they are like as adults, I think that would be amazing.
I will need to purchase all 13 for my own shelves eventually because it has become one of my favorite series of all time.Also while reading the the ending I couldn't help but think of this song.
For the Baudelaires!
Though the character development is certainly a little thin, the reader still finds themselves deeply attached to Sunny, Violet and Claus and therefore ready to read on to find out their fate.The End was disappointing because the end was no end at all.
The only difference between the beginning and the end of the book is the state of the Baudelaires' hearts.
Forgive me if that's a little vague, but I do hate spoilers.All in all, the book was a disappointment.
A poor tribute to the wit and mystery of the prior books in the series.
I'm a mixed bag of emotions after reading The End. I'm terribly sad that my reread of this series is over yet I'm so glad that I revisited them and got to relive a big part of my childhood.
It's such a dark and depressing series and this last book was no different.
But that's why I loved this series as a kid and continue to do so as an adult.
Real life isn't always sunshine and butterflies and I love how these books reflect that.
Other than that these books really are quite a series of unfortunate events and I've loved every minute of them!
~4.5 stars~ I had no idea what to expect from the end of The End lol :P And honestly, I am still a little confused about some things...I still have so many questions xD But I did just finish this book so I still need to let some things sink in before I can say much about it because right now my brain is like...xD xD
I want to go back and read the series again to find more allusions I almost certainly wouldn't have picked up the first time around, but I can't be bothered to.
The feeling I got upon finishing the series was that Daniel Handler got so tangled up in his own plot that he couldn’t work out how to round it off.
It’s a crime against the art of storytelling, to let those books still be regarded as a tale.I do want the plot holes patched up.
3.75* although I really enjoyed this, I'm definitely not entirely satisfied with the ending, I feel like I've finished it with more questions than I had she I started?!
But I guess that very much suits this series, it's just a little (a lot) infuriating, I can't bare all this questions hanging over my head.
:') I've really enjoyed reading this series, although I'm so happy to have finished it!
Nevertheless, this was a bizarre, dark and incredibly unique series and I can definitely see why so many people when it love with it when it was first released!
I'm so happy to finally say that I've read The Series of Unfortunate Events!!
To start off, don't expect to get answers to the plot points he brought up in the other books.
Not even points from book 12 are answered.
The title to every other book in the series uses alliteration, but not this one, why?
I know they wanted the series to end in 13 books, but honestly if there was more story to tell than just one more book, he should have just gone on.
The "life's unanswered questions" direction can work in some cases, but it does not replace plot resolution.
This book was such a let down, that I sold all of my books.
A really good end to the series, although I agree with others a lot of things were missed and unanswered!
He did create some fun mysteries along the way, but unfortunately, it all "ended" in a way that was similar to why I stopped watching Lost - too many of these and some newly introduced mysteries, not enough resolution, not to mention the fact that this is considered a children's series and yet it evokes this kind of response in an adult (an adult who owns and plays Wii is still an adult!) Clearly, he can return to this world again if he chooses to (as "The Beatrice Letters" seems to hint at) and hopefully he does.
Not completely satisfied with the ending but it did leave me mindblown! So glad I've finally finished this series.
I guess reading is reading and I can fully, fully admit that I would have no problem reading The Berenstain Bears and the Messy Room a few more times (is this why people have kids?) Anywhoooo...this summer I randomly decided to check out the series at the library and became fixed on it.
It is probably the most brilliantly written children's series I have ever read (besides those pesky Berenstain Bear books).
As an adult reader it was cumbersome to have words constantly explained in the book but if I was a parent or a teacher reading this to a much younger audience I'm sure it would have been extremely useful.
Life isn’t fair.As I sit crammed between two car seats going on a dreary two hour expedition against traffic jams and people who decide to throw cocktail shrimp out their windows, I noticed these books have dark life lessons for children to learn.
Usually, we learn these things while we live in this treacherous world, but these books give a glimpse of the harsh reality in the most ridiculous, humorous manner possible.Sometimes we won’t get all the answers to our questions, or life isn’t fair.
We move into the great unknown.
Life is uncertain.
What? Literally what? I mean it's not a bad book, but this sure as hell didn't conclude the series. Olaf's last words to the orphan's can't be "you really think I burned down your house?" because that opens more questions rather than closing them.I'm extremely disappointed.Around The Year in 52 Books Challenge #12 - A childhood classic
نمیدونم چرا قبلا برای این کتاب ریویو ننوشته بودمسلام مجموعه کتاب ناگواری ها که در ایران به بچه های ب
Sono combattuta, davvero combattuta. Per alcuni versi le quattro stelline se le merita tutte, ma ci sono così tante domande in sospeso che un po' mi fa rabbia. Sapevo che il finale sarebbe stato amaro e un po' sono delusa e un po' soddisfatta. È stranissimo..
Reread the whole series and still lovin` it. Hope Netflix will do it justice.
Reread the whole series and still lovin` it. Hope Netflix will do it justice.
I’ve kind of learned that I’m not the type of reader who enjoys a 10+ book series.
The series finally began to diverge from the exact same plot line for each book around number 8, so everyone who told me the last few were better were completely right.
I think my favorite is definitely going to be The Slippery Slope and my least favorite probably The Miserable Mill.I loved the first half of this book and was considering bumping it up to a four star rating.
While it’s a solid three star series for me and I understand why it’s so loved, it’s never going to be a favorite.
I feel like I want to cry after finishing this book, and this series.
Indeed, this series, unknowingly, became a huge part in my life that I am finding it very hard to let go of.
I have read the reviews of people complaining that the story did not answer any questions.
This book is perfect, and I hate to leave it behind.
I don't want to become just another book I've read in the pile of the books I've read, because this series is spectacular.
I loved this book and I hate to leave it.
I even have tears in my eyes :(Amazing book.
Amazing series.
