https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26893819-the-girls
People I know, love, and respect really, really like this book.
I absolutely understand how you could read this book and think it's amazing and get all caught up in the story and the characters and be transported back to that crazy time in our nation's history.
I read Helter Skelter in high school and that book was...
Wait, I'm turning a corner...This book took real events, changed the characters names, and did nothing creative outside of that.
I'm trying to change....Hang on...But, people like it and that's great.
It was doomed from the start, but I read it, it was short, and I can now move on to other books.
DNFI very rarely put aside books after reading just a prologue and one chapter, but I cannot make myself suffer through any more of this. My stomach was coiling with dread each time I even thought about pushing through another 300+ pages of this overwritten prose. I ate in the blunt way I had as a child—a glut of spaghetti, mossed with cheese. The nothing jump of soda in my throat.I tended to the in-between spaces of other people’s existences, working as a live-in aide. Cultivating a genteel inv

Her ordinary life hits the extraordinary, and pow, right in the kisser.I worried that this would be just another teenage-girl-angst book.
Can Evie help it that her cerebral cortex isn't developed well enough for her to even have a chance of sensing danger or making good decisions?
I’m certain that the What Ifs are still haunting Evie too (it’s a pretty good book if I’m acting like Evie is a real person!).
Fear, desire, vulnerability, idol worship, loneliness, danger, mind-fucking—all are part of the darkness.This book reminded me a bit of two other favorites, Aquarium (strong tone and imagery) and The Woman Upstairs (girl obsession, first-person narration, cerebral).
I read a lot of books, namely psychological suspense/thriller, so I come across a good bit of violence and graphic content.
I think I would have liked a little more of Russell’s character but I understand why she left him as mysterious and vague, even following the conclusion.* There isn’t a ton of violence throughout the book, but the ending is a bit disturbing as it does involve a scene (not fully described) with a child.
And to those review-headline writers, I say: eh.Emma Cline does a couple of things well: she sets a very evocative scene (1969 Haight) and she does a good job laying out why our narrator, Evie, would be drawn to the Manson-eque cult.
I know that Cline really wanted to focus on Evie, but she's not really an cult insider, absent when the crime is ordered and carried out and so it kind of felt like it came out of nowhere to me.
It felt a little more like, "Well of course that's going to happen, this is a cult.
Personally I think this would have been a better novel (though probably a less commercially successful one) had she invented her own cult because Cline always seemed to me, understandably, out of her depth when dealing with the inner springs of the Manson cult.
Personally I look forward to her next book when there isn’t perhaps so much commercial pressure on her because Emma Cline is a brilliant young writer and there’s lots of fabulous writing in this book; unfortunately it didn’t quite work for me as a novel.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: THIS REVIEW CONTAINS ZERO WORTHWHILE CONTENT AND ALSO MAYBE A SPOILER. READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.Tons of my friends received an ARC of The Girls and my feed has been filled for months with updates/reviews detailing all of the awesome they were all experiencing . . .  Thanks for the warm welcome, John McClane, but I have a feeling you (along with everyone else) will soon be changing your tune. Soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo, whe
READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.Tons of my friends received an ARC of The Girls and my feed has been filled for months with updates/reviews detailing all of the awesome they were all experiencing .
I hated the writing style, I like stories that are fresh and if you’re going to fictionalize one of the most famous events in U.S. history at least mix things up a teeny little bit (and I mean more than famous dude who was supposed to be the target of the murder being a musician rather than a child rapist Roman Polanski or the female victim actually having a child instead of being pregnant), and most importantly THE MAIN CHARACTER SHOULD ACTUALLY BE A PART OF THE EFFING EVENT and not just tell us about 
Maybe the hype killed it for other people.
And maybe their dislike of it saved me from going in with high expectations.
Because I ended up really enjoying this one.
And the narration has a self-reflective quality to it that I really enjoy in first person stories.Perhaps all that beautiful prose hangs on a pretty thin plot, ripped right out of the headlines of the 1960's.
But it's compulsively readable, engaging and ultimately pretty satisfying.
And fair warning, it has some pretty adult stuff, so I wouldn't recommend this for younger readers or people who are averse to that kind of content.
This is my second try at reviewing this after accidentally deleting everything I had typed.
It's not long before Evie starts to pull away from her mother, spending more time with the group especially Suzanne.
Suzanne is an older girl that Evie is completely enamored with.
She feels like no one else understands her like these people do, especially Suzanne.
But Evie doesn't realize how quickly things can change and soon comes the time where everything changes...in what seems like the blink of an eye.I really didn't know how I was going to feel about this book.
Spine-tingling and Mind-BlowingThis was one of those books, that for whatever reason, kept getting pushed to the bottom of Mount TBR.
By now, I am sure all of you here on GR know what the plot of this book is..
so I am going to skip that.Emma Cline focuses on character development, character development, and guess what?
I like to be up close and personal with my protagonist while I am reading.
I want to be in their mind, knowing what they are thinking, why they are acting in such a way.
This book does exactly that.
Her father has a new girlfriend, and her mother is dating a variety of men.
Early into the story, she remembers a cocktail party her parents had thrown, ( the year before they split).
Neither parent was paying any attention to Evie.
The only woman at that party who looked exciting was her dad's girlfriend.
Later he manipulates his followers into a dark world of violence.Having grown up in the Bay Area, I'm familiar with the Charles Manson and Sharon Tate story which this novel is loosely based on...but the books strength ( besides fresh, intimate, and addictive), is the authors ability to understand teen chaotic years of vulnerability.
Great book. Took me right back to 1969. Evie was 14, I was 11, and I had a lot of the same stuff going on at home as she did. Her home life, and I think her loss of her best friend sent her searching for the feelings of inclusiveness, etc. that she found with this clan in the in the park and then onto the ranch. This was based loosely on The Manson clan. Evie tells her story from 1969 and from today as an adult. Another great debut novel..
Whaaaaaat happened?! Everybody loves this book. EV-ERY-BO-DY...except me, apparently. I waited a little over a week to write this review and I can add forgettable to the list of adjectives I would use to describe this. Though quite well-written, the story really lost momentum and felt unoriginal. I was bored and pretty grossed out. 2 stars.
These people see her...they know her...they get her- and when she meets their charismatic leader- Russell- she knows this is the place she wants to be.As her relationship with her mother becomes more strained, Evie spends more time with her new circle of friends....and the more smitten she becomes- not with Russell...but with Suzanne....The more rules she breaks and the more blind she is to the things happening around her.
Things she doesn't want to see...Her new "peace and love" family is about to cross a line- and if she isn't careful- take her down with them.THE GIRLS (based on Charles Manson and his followers) is so much better than I expected.
I wanted to love this story. But after trying mulitple times, I think I need to put it down. The premise of this one was very intriguing, unfortunately, while I can appreciate the writing style, it simply isn't working for me. Overly poetic and wordy, I just can't anymore. Everyone was healthy, tan, and heavy with decoration, and if you weren't, that was a thing too-you could be some moon creature, chiffon over lamp shades, on a kitchari cleanse that stained all your dishes with turmeric. Maybe
I wanted to love this story.
But after trying mulitple times, I think I need to put it down.
The premise of this one was very intriguing, unfortunately, while I can appreciate the writing style, it simply isn't working for me.
Overly poetic and wordy, I just can't anymore.
Maybe I'm not in the right frame of mind, perhaps my IQ has dropped a bit after hitting thirty, but seriously, this one was just giving me a headache.
DNF @ 15%*ARC provided via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review*
Not knowing to be wary of these misguided people and so hungry for affection and attention, Evie quickly becomes obsessed with the dark-haired Suzanne, a new way of life, and begins to worship both her and the leader of the cult, Russell learning his version of freedom, truth and love.Cline's THE GIRLS is well written, descriptive of the time and kept my attention throughout, but is not an original story by any means.
Having read Vincent Bugliosi's HELTER SKELTER a year ago, I found  THE GIRLS to be a knock-off version based on one teen's life, her time spent with the free-spirited group and a recounting of the horror that evolved.
I kept visualizing this book as a remake of sorts, an Indie film set in the 80's.
Evie is a heroine that's hard to pigeonhole.
She is driven but naive and vulnerable.
We have all been there so we understand her motives.I thought that the book was very heavy with social commentary, but what caught my attention is the vocab of the writer.
I enjoyed reading this book a lot.But there are flaws.
I disagree with many fans of the book about the pacing of this book.
I thought the pacing showed the inexperience of an author still unripe.
4.5 Stars! I'm working on notes for a video review right now because I LOVED this book!May add some of my thoughts here later.
It takes place in a parallel universe that never heard of Charles Manson or the murders that rocked Los Angeles that summer and though the story holds no surprises, the compressed space that Cline pulled me into was palpable.Evie is introduced ten years after she burns through an inheritance left by her Hollywood starlet grandmother.
Unable to fix the bike, Suzanne offers to drop the kid off in town, but a redhead named Donna invites Evie to a summer solstice party the girls are throwing.
(I'm using several quotes from the book just because this Emma Cline can write her ass off.)Evie Boyd, is fourteen years old in the sixties.
Evie starts hanging out at the ranch more and more..falling more in love with not Russell but Suzanne.
Evie knows Suzanne isn't necessarily a good person but she is compelled to still seek her attention and approval..and when she is around him Russell's also.
It had hurt him, too.Cline takes you into the group as that fourteen year old and the thing is?!?!
I need a beer anyways but still.The only thing about this book is the fact now that I'm pissed because it's over.
It's also a dark period when a charismatic Charles Manson lures in young girls who are desperately seeking attention and wanting to feel part of something, as warped as it may be, into a brainwashed world of deceit, poverty, sex, drugs and murder.Evie, now in her 50's, is reflecting back on the days when she was 14 and became part of the cult whose horrific crimes left a mark on American history.
That summer, having developed a girl crush on a member, brought her onto the fringe of the sordid Manson group and a time in her life she will never be able to put behind her.Cline's writing is superb for a debut.
The story is told from Evie's perspective in two timelines -- at age 14 when she collided with the group and in her later adult years as she thinks back on that part of her life.
Emma Cline -- a debut novelist -- does a great job getting into Evie's head -- depicting what could possibly attract a 14 year old to such a squalid and miserable group.
It's also interesting to see what happens to adult Evie -- she seems to have found footing on more solid ground, but she is still very much defined by her past.
“I don’t know which is more amazing, Emma Cline’s understanding of human beings or her mastery of language.”—Mark Haddon, New York Times bestselling author of The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-TimeI don't want to be here...But this is so well written...But I really don't want to be here.But this is so incredibly well written.This was roughly the ongoing internal dialogue taking place in my head while reading "The Girls".I have always found certain subject matters difficult to handle.
She carries the story with an uncanny sense of innocence and gloom.Emma Cline is an amazing new voice on the literary scene and I will follow her works with keen interest.
Will Evie come to her senses before she goes down a road she can never come back from?The Girls is a story inspired by the infamous murder of Sharon Tate by followers of Charles Manson.
Her fascination with Suzanne leads her down a grim path, a path with murder at its end.Anyone with a passing familiarity with Charles Manson knows where the book is heading from the start and Evie, in the framing thread, hints at it pretty heavily.
(view spoiler)[Also, The entire book leads up to a murder and then it happens off screen.
Mom told me that one day a man and some girls came in and they stood out to her because they seemed happy, singing, dancing and because they were obviously hippies.
She had two small children at home.Mom said she remembered hearing that they captured the murderers from the Tate-LaBianca case and that as soon as she saw their picture on the news she said "Oh, my god, those were the people who came into the Ranch House and invited me to go with them." She said there was no mistaking Charles Mansons face as the man who had come in with the girls that day.
I was not blown away by the book, but I am not sad I read it.My favorite part was the characters.
It felt like the author was given the assignment to write the back story of one of the Manson girls and she only did an okay job.
Next I will describe what she likes to read.
Etc."Also, the sexuality throughout kinda felt over the top and unnecessary.
I have no issues when it makes sense, but this felt like "let me shock you!"Not sure who I would recommend this to so I am not sure I would recommend it, but it was okay.

Het verhaal speelt zich af in de VS in 1969...de stuiptrekkingen van de Flower Power...vrije seks, drugs...de zoektocht naar het eigen individu...Tijdens een picknick in het park leidt Evie's blik telkens weer naar een groepje meisjes...en één meisje in het bijzonder...die 'anders' zijn...dit heeft een ongelooflijke aantrekkingskracht op Evie.
Ze laat zich volledig beinvloeden door Susanne en Russell...haar eigen wil verdwijnt...door een ongelooflijk toeval raakt ze slechts zijdelings betrokken bij de 'Grande Finale' van de sekte...die haar hele verdere leven zal beinvloeden.Een verhaal dat je bij je keel grijpt en waarvan je wil dat het niet zal eindigen...in één ruk uitgelezen...Aanrader!!
I started this book and found myself putting it aside for other reads pretty frequently.
I think if it had just been a library book I would have returned it without finishing but I paid money for this!
I found it to be more of a light summer beach read.
The central character is not central in the events of the book, the big news that the story is supposed to reveal more and more of.
Instead the novel reads like a bunch of vignettes of drug addicts and one egomaniac, but only the boring parts - when they're hanging out and eating rotting food and dealing with leaky roofs and clogged toilets.
This book aroused not just a keen sense of character and setting with its evocative imagery and poignant writing, but an entire era; an entire generation of people that are now almost lost to the world!This is the story of the dark underworld of the 'swinging 60s', so revered in both memory and passed down recollection.
This is the story of Evie Boyd: representative of a generation of those who slipped through the gaps.The dark, disturbing and often sexual undertones of this book were penned with such a grace and beauty as to bring light to what would otherwise be an amphibological read.
