https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563457.Ruby
He's also a Sensitive Beta Male who's thrilled to discover that he's got another daughter...but Pierre's wife (Daphne) hates Ruby on sight & her long-lost twin (Gisselle) immediately sets out to make her new sister miserable.
The worst of the Sue disease is how Ruby allows Gisselle & Daphne to take advantage of her, & that gets old really fast because it happens almost every chapter.
And despite her repeatedly protesting against the inbred Cajun stereotypes, at the end of the book she's still trying to squash those improper feelings for (view spoiler)[her half-brother Paul (hide spoiler)]...who, like Chris in Flowers, continues to press his case for a HEA despite the blood relationship.
Reading Virginia Andrews' books when I was 15, they were kind of exciting.
Reading them at 25, they were not.
The writing style is simplistic, the description is nothing more than a list of features and the plot is tired.
I've been informed that all of Andrews' books feature this beautiful, hard done by girl, experiencing forbidden love then finding out she is part of a rich powerful family formula, but there's only so many times you can read about a girl falling in love with her brother.
The first time it's an interesting taboo.
The second time it's one big yawn.
Rubie's story and the Landry series is my all-time second favorite series behind the Dollanganger series. I love everything about Ruby. This series has so many twists and turns it made my head spin. The twin aspect made Ruby's story stand out from all others in my opinion. I adored Giselle. I know she was a b with an itch, but still she always kept things interesting. Beau was another reason I really enjoyed the Ruby series so much. He was an awesome love interest.
Pseudo incest, evil twins, family secrets, lies and betrayal, complete with an evil stepmother. What more could you want?Trashylicious mess. I also love the gothic and dark aspects of it aswell.Will be reading the rest of the series.
The books by this author are like reading a soap opera - totally addicting and a guilty pleasure.
If you've ever read Flowers In The Attic or any other of V.C. Andrews' books and liked/enjoyed it, then you'll enjoy this one.
You might need your dictionary one or two times and some parts are a little heavy with the description of the bayou but I liked Ruby (even though she was a little dumb sometimes) and found her a lot different from the main protagonist in Flowers In The Attic, Cathy.Even if you don't like old books, this was a very nice read and I recommend it.
horrifying and captivating at the same time
Looking back and re-reading, I'm not sure it was such a good idea for my mom to let me get my hands on these books when I was about 6th grade age.Re-reading the series was a little disappointing.
I know I had always sympathized with the characters and loved every second.With age comes wisdom, and now I found Ruby Landry, the focus of this book a little bit infuriating.
Her wide-eyed innocence was cute at first but then extremely forced once every single person in her life took advantage of her.
This was the beginning of my slow wall slide for VC Andrews books.
I ultimately stopped with the third book in this series, once I realized I had read this before.
These are trashy books, and were meant to be taken as such.
They do come up with some magnificent names (Gisselle Dumas is a pretty badass name), but, that's about it.The first two series (Dollanganger and Casteel) were shocking and entertaining.
The Cutler series moved quickly, but was definitely soapier than the previous two series.
This one was pretty much highlights from those three series thrown together into one new series.
Ну, она меня увлекла)
At her death-bed, Ruby made a promise to her Grandmere that she would go to New Orleans for a better future and to seek the truth of her past.
Battling loyalty between her Cajun-background and her up-raising in the swamp with her new Creole family proved to be difficult for Ruby, especially when everyone around her were lying and making life hard for her, especially causing her so much trouble and problems.This book was the first in a series of five.
Unravel the knots in your own heart first; then help your sister unravel hers." - page 382.
Ruby was one of the first Andrews books that I read and I thought it was a time to give an old favorite a re-read.
I couldn't remember what happened to Ruby after she met her father and evil twin sister.
So that part was like reading it all for the first time.
However my opinions have Beau have, I used to like him but actually he's not really very nice.
I think Ruby should have turned him down.
I'm really excited to read the next one, if I remember rightly, Gisselle has some horrible things in store for Ruby.
Ruby, the main character is a young 15 year old artist living with her grandmother in the beginning of the book.
Ruby was a likable character for me because she's a curious, artistic, and sweet girl.
The story was really drawn out and some of the plot twists incorporated into the plot were too weird for my taste.
She described scenes with a really strong voice, making some parts really interesting where I didn't want to put the book down.
There were many twists within Ruby's family, making it seem like a soap opera.
Overall, the story was really interesting and full of mystery.
In the summer between seventh and eighth grade, I read every V.C. Andrews novel that I could get my hands on. Ruby is the one I remember the most, so I decided to look it up.It's pretty steamy...at least from my recollection as a middle school innocent.There are all the classic Andrews plot points: Incest, dark family secrets, young hot damsel as protagonist, a rich man whom she loves, and a poor one who loves her (secret brother? anyone care to refresh my memory?)
Ruby was never an exceptional story - most of the Andrews magic died with her. The continued stories with the ghostwriter worked slightly but not well enough for me. By now its getting generic and a little too melodramatic, even though the changes of scenery are fascinating.
Primeiro volume de uma série que adorei! Recordo-me que fiquei ansiosa para que saísse o segundo...
I read the entire Flowers in the Attic series between 13-17 like many women my age, and I also read My Sweet Audrina, and the Heaven series in my teens.
However I read Ruby as an adult as a sort of nolstalgic thing, and really prefer the setting and characters over the Heaven series ...and every other "ghost written" VC Andrews series after 2000 is complete and utter garbage.
I tried reading something called The Secret Brother or some other nonsense and it was so incredibly bad I gave it to Goodwill without finishing it.But Ruby is worth reading, especially if you liked Flowers in the Attic.
I stated this book in the middle of exams and that was a mistake so I only got about 60 pages in and thought it was pretty boring.
A good mystery filled with plot twist after plot twist.
I watched all of the flowers in the attic series and thought the plot line was pretty interesting but I couldn’t find the books when I searched so I grabbed this one.
It’s not as promiscuous as the other series and I like the relationships which ruby has with others.
I hope I can find the rest of the series as I throughly enjoyed this book 😊😊😊😊
I remember enjoying this book when I read it as a teenager. I’m not upset I re-read it, but it’s definitely a different variety of salacious than it was when I was 14. Then, I was scandalized there was a *sex scene*. Now, I cannot believe any of these people are allowed to exist and function in society because they are all terrible and make such stupid decisions. Apparently, VC Andrews doesn’t hold up well. Who’d have thought.
Vivid imagery and excellent characters. Another classic by the "original" V.C Andrews.
There is something about the writing of V.C. Andrews that leaves me turning the pages.
You would think that since all of her stories are similar in nature that I would tire of them, but in fact, when I pick up a V.C. Andrews novel I always dig right in.
I appreciate that, there are many a novels I have read only to get lost in all the craziness that an author can throw at us poor readers thinking that they are fooling us but in reality are just being fools.
Hell, grab any V.C. Andrews novel for a good read.
I feel kind of dirty reading these things--they're like bad soap operas, but I can't help but feel a tingle of naughty glee every time I pick one up. The writing is good and I bought the rest in the series.
I haven't read a book that took me away to another place in so long.
Why would the grandmother allow Ruby to become more than just friends with Paul before telling her the truth?
I know she didn't want to tell Ruby yet but what choice did she have once they got close.
You'd think they had known of things going on with Giselle long before Ruby showed up.
Daphne sounds like she is jealous of Ruby.
I actually felt really bad when Beau took off from school with Ruby leaving behind Giselle.
And leaving as in going back to bayou.
The book is about a Cajun raised girl named Ruby who grew up in the Bayou of Louisiana; and who upon her Grandmere's deathbed discovers she is actually of Creole blood, from a rich family and has a twin sister.
After her Grandmere's passing she sets out to New Orleans in pursuit of the life her twin sister had as well as to answer stories about her past and family that she's always wished she had known.This was a very well told story that at times had me very curious to know what was going to happen next.
Yet another VC Andrews book full of twists and turns...Andrews fans know the drill by now, but Ruby proved to be an exceptional addition to the traditional mold.
Ruby lives with her Grandmere in the Bayou.
Of course, in Andrews cliche, her real family is rich and doesn't know she exists.
So after her Grandmere passes away, her alcoholic Grandpere forces Ruby to run away to New Orleans to find her real family.
Yes, Ruby is filled with your typical VC Andrews plots and cliches...but it was good.
True evil wasn't the voodoo that was performed, but the bullying and jealousy of Ruby's new family.
Her Grandpere Jack drinks too much and wants Ruby to marry someone she won't love, so she runs away to find her biological father in New Orleans.
There, she finds him, his wife Daphne, and her twin sister Gisselle.
She tries in every way to set Ruby up and get her into trouble...having her put alcohol in her closet, which Daphne finds; boys taking pictures of Ruby undressing, or telling Daphne, Ruby personally knows a prostitute.
Luckily, Ruby escapes and makes it back to her house where she tells Gisselle the truth about Daphne not being their biological mother, and her father about what Daphne tried to do to her.
We move from the Cajan swamps of Louisana to New Orleans as fifteen year old Ruby discovers that she has a long-lost father and twin sister in the city.
Neither her sister nor stepmother are quite what they seem and each, in her own way, would like to destroy the innocent Ruby.
And the ending is too sudden, I would have liked to have seen Daphne suffer some kind of consequence for her actions, rather than simply having to put up with a few harsh words from her husband.
Divine justice would have seen Daphne suffer some kind of mental breakdown, where she ended up in the same institution where she tried to put Ruby for example.
So when she learns the real truth about her life, it completely takes her off guard.
Dealing with the inevitable loss of the only mother figure she has ever known her whole life, she is forced to fulfill her grandmother's dying request which is to find her real father.
This, of course, leads her to a life completely opposite of what she has always known.
It follows a fifteen year old Ruby as she experiences young love, loosing a grandmother, peer pressure, her first time, learning her strength and staying true to herself.
I definitely cried a good cry during one part of this story.
This series didn't QUITE have the feel of its predecessors, but is still a worthwhile and engaging book (and series)While the Cajun v Creole is a bit stereotyped (but nowhere near as the heavy stereotypes Neiderman used in later books) the characters are still rather enjoyable and believable.
The rest of the Landry series is much the same, a bit heavy with some stereotypes but overall a well-rounded read.
It was cool to see an artist as the leading lady this time, and Ruby deals well with all the crud that others toss her way in this book.4 out of 5 stars for a decent and worthwhile read.
Seperti menonton sinetron.Sepertinya Ruby selalu menderita dan diperlakukan tidak adil, dan nyaris tak ada yang memercayainya.Saudara kembar yang terlalu pengiri dan keji.Ibu tiri yang sinting dan gila hormat.Ayah yang larut dalam penderitaan sendiri.Nenek yang baik, sudah meninggal, hanya ada kakek jahat yang tega menjualnya pada orang lain.Pacarnya ternyata tidak bisa ia miliki. Tertarik pada pacar kembarannya yang sepertinya baik, tapi mau bagaimana lagi, semua orang sepertinya meyakini Ruby itu jahat dan manipulatif dan gila seks.Kenapa sih semua mudah sekali percaya pada saudara kembarnya yang jelas-jelas tak layak dipercaya?Capek bacanya. Kaget juga saat menyadari ini sebenarnya serial. Nggak berminat membaca lanjutannya.
