https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145108.ABC_of_Reading
One easily imagines Pound as a manic tenured professor, standing on top of his desk, and haranguing the students to follow his lead, but remain independent and critical lovers of poetry.His standards are maddening.
Edit the description so that it cannot be mistaken for any other tree.)Although, of course, he advises students to read and think for themselves, and write for themselves.
No critic worth his salt has not at least tried to write something on his own.Treat this like you would a course from a brilliant, if not utterly mad professor.
If you can stand him, you will learn a lot.
I really want to read with the freedom feeling, like thinking without words.
I don't know what my inside poetry music sounds outside.According to Pound one should be able to speak and write in multiple languages.
If you are unwilling to stick the babel fish in your ear then you don't really want to read poetry.
I don't know if I want to be able to express everything.
I guess as far as writing poetry how it is said is a lot.
Pound does question the reader if they feel coming out of them what they have just read if they write after reading.
The committed student needs to be wide awake, to look and listen closely, to slow down, scrutinize and reflect.
The language of poetry is so dense, so multivalent, that it demands a concentrated act of attention — and offers its greatest rewards only to those who reread.Predictably didactic and teeming with bombast, this is a sound primer to poetry and an illuminating insight into the turns and shifts Pound was making as the 1930s released a greasy slip into global catastrophe.
Intriguing as Cranky Ezra proclaims Chaucer the father of European Verse and then picks examples of the subsequent tradition, many of which have since lapsed into obscurity.
Classic.
Much wisdom and strong opinion to be found here; makes me want to work hard, read Homer in ancient Greek, etc."Music rots when it gets too far from the dance.
Poetry atrophies when it gets too far from music.There are three kinds of melopoeia, that is, verse made to sing; to chant or intone; and to speak.The older one gets the more one believes in the first.""And it is my firm conviction that a man can learn more about poetry by really knowing and examining a few of the best poems than by meandering about among a great many."
At the outset, it's important to note that Mr. Pound offers ABC of Reading as a "text-book that can also be read 'for pleasure as well as profit' by those no longer in school; by those who have not been to school; or by those who in their college days suffered those things which most of my own generation suffered".We're all duly welcomed to Mr. Pound's class.
Our only recourse, though, is it's own reward since we are free to fearlessly question even Mr. Pound along the way.As a bonus, I believe any reader will gain even more by taking up the opening invitation to read the book "for pleasure as well as for profit".
Contains an advocacy of Chaucer more vehement than I ever heard from the professional Middle Englishers at college.
'You would not be far out if you chose to consider Chaucer as the father of litterae humaniores for Europe.' Huh. The appreciations of Gavin Douglas, Golding and Fielding also caught my mind.
After that, nothing much surprising: Shakespeare isn't a diety...Milton was a blockhead...it is VERY important to know Dante and Cavalcanti...English poetry after Browning is a limp, hazy decadence...at some point in history there was an ideal period of poetic homeostasis (Provencal, 1250-to the Renaissance; Tom says it was 17th century England ante Milton) that we--paradoxically called 'modernists' though our passion is an excavating nostalgia, an erudite primitivism--mean to mine for invigorating lessons.
"Poetry begins to atrophy when it gets too far from music…" (p14) Later on page 156, he compares earlier times, when aristocratic men were taught both music and poetry together, to modern times when music is treated as a discipline and poetry as a pastime.Another strong point EP makes is that literary criticism is usually flawed, because it attacks the author's perceived intentions instead of the author's work itself.
Incredible as it now seems, the bad critics of Keats' time found his writing 'obscure', which meant that they couldn't understand WHY Keats wrote." (p64)Pound's critical concept arises again in the Chapter 8 section titled Perception.
Absolute punk rock book of insights, raves, rants, condemnations, fury and exquisite heft.
I really enjoyed his puckish, piquant, I'm-Ezra-Pound-and-you're-not kinda vibe."Literature is news that STAYS news"....absolutely gaddamn right.What I always find is the catch with books like this is that inevitably the writer starts to hymn works which the reader hasn't read or doesn't know thoroughly enough to be able to benefit from the insight.
Pound falls victim to that here, albeit willingly.
I had it at four stars at first, but I decided that him and his obscene erudition and his frilly named poetical terms have to lose a star, for obscurity and self-importance if nothing else.But I love the manic energy that one can find all over the place, mostly in the beginning.
A primeira parte consiste em observações que um leitor mais atento e voraz aprende lendo, a segunda parte é mais proveitosa por dar exemplos práticos da evolução da poesia em inglês com comentários pertinentes de Pound, com o porém que sou completamente uma negação em decifrar a linguagem dos poemas isabelinos, o que nos leva diretamente à terceira parte onde tais poemas são felizmente traduzidos na versão brasileira pelos irmãos Campos e Décio Pignatari.
The ABC of Reading is Ezra Pound's iconoclastic view of stages on the way to Parnassus -- to knowing the nature and meaning of literature.
What an appropriate setting, for this book reads like an extension of the University expanding my education in time and through imagination.
There are more ideas packed into just over two hundred pages in this little book than in many much larger tomes.
Plus there are bon mots like this-- "Great literature is simply language charged with meaning to the utmost possible degree."(p 36) --in every chapter.This classic retains "a certain eternal and irrepressible freshness" that makes it worth reading today; both for the challenge and for the insights into the nature of poetry and literature.
You are kicked out of every institution, but you still can get a good introduction to literature via Ezra Pound and this book. I read it as a teenager at the right time and right place. Maybe it will happen to you... as well.
Um ensaio de 1934 que ainda tem tanto a dizer.
O Pound era um sujeito completamente maluco e ambicioso - duas qualidades que eu considero indispensáveis para ser um bom artista, mas, sobretudo, para ser um excelente professor de literatura.
Você tem que pensar para além da sua língua, do seu tempo, do seu umbigo.
Mesmo diante de tanto rigor (imposto a si mesmo, sobretudo, mas também a seus alunos) Pound, no fundo, quer que cada um leia, pense e descubra por si.
“Literatura é linguagem carregada de significado.
Grande literatura é simplesmente linguagem carregada de significado no mais alto grau possível”
Pound loves to quote himself -- like Cocteau, "Etonnez-moi" -- surprise me -- is the order of the day to ensure that words are charged with meaning with logo-melo-phano-poetic roots growing deep underneath.
(42: phanopoeia: throwing a visual image on the mind; Melopoeia: melodic invention; Charge words with sound (37).
It is not a man's fingers that stop him playing an instrument, but his mind, his inability to grasp mentally the sixty or the twelve or 600 bits of a whole and to perceive their relations.
The true imagination, whether visual or acoustic, holds a piece of music as a watchmaker would mentally grasp a watch..." (152) importance of DETAILS..
Ezra pound's cryptic, and often arrogant pamphlet about the principles of successful poetry is an interesting insight into the quality of the artist as a learned reader of classical poetry in the lyric form (primarily).
Never the less, he establishes a basic canon of great lyric poetry, including (above all else) Shakespeare, Homer, Chaucer, and Dante.
Pound does not believe you can understand the nature of poetry without being able to read Latin, Greek, French, and Italian, but of course this guidebook is coming from a true fanatic.
This little volume was meant as a guide to students and teachers for how to read literature, poems and novels, in order to, by extension, write literature.
He puts in a few interesting exercises on how students should do peer critiques to weed out excess language.
Mmm, I must not be a serious student of literature.
Because I sure do enjoy contemporary dross now and again.
I was thinking that reading this book might be an interesting foundation for the rest of my reading in Malaysia.
In any case, I think I will just enjoy what I want to enjoy.
Enlightenment through language?
Sure!
Учебник литературы, близкий к идеальному, а не вот эта ваша вульгарная социология и антропология, приправленная агитпропом и пролеткультом. Паунд учит своих гипотетических студентов читать поэзию как источник литературы вообще (которая «гниет, если слишком удаляется от музыки») и немного касается романа, и этот виртуальный класс просто завораживает — а какие там задания! А какая мини-антология забытой английской поэзии! Он настолько бескомпромиссен и идиосинкратичен, что издавать его по-ру — предприятие заведомо провальное: здесь и преподаватели высшей школы очень не все поймут, о чем он толкует. Впрочем, Паунд сам говорит, что не для них это писано.
I give this a 5 because I think this is what Pound was meant to do: teach and be a critic. I'm not crazy about his poems at all. There are some ridiculous demands in this book (like learning several foreign languages) but overall there's a ton of excellent insights. I especially like what he wrote about Chinese ideograms. As with most "craft" books, this one is meant to teach a person how to read, not write.
'A people that grows accustomed to sloppy writing is a people in process of losing grip on its empire and on itself. And this looseness and blowsiness is not anything as simple and scandalous as abrupt and disordered syntax."It concerns the relation of expression to meaning. Abrupt and disordered syntax can be at times very honest, and an elaborately constructed sentence can be at times an elaborate camouflage.'Ezra Pound in 'A B C of Reading
Me reí bastante con el bueno de Ezra. La verdad es que el género manual le queda muy chico. Le agradecemos el tono y la intención pero tras leer esto solo reconfirmo que tengo que volver a los Cantos. Amé algunos de los poemas citados, investigaré a posteriori.
Partindo da grande preocupação com a realidade, Pound toma o conhecimento como um verdadeiro sistema orgânico e biológico que precisa dos mesmos cuidados que um biólogo dá em seus estudos.
Como a metodologia e a técnica são só meios, estão sempre abertas à modificação e a o aprimoramento, e o tempo, generoso, fornece autores para este subsídio.Assim, ABC da Literatura faz das novas perspectivas de seu tempo uma forma de excelente organização para lidar com a quantidade de obras disponíveis, orientando o estudante em um caminho seguro, que não se perde em velhos clichês, mas tampouco se deixa seduzir por novas falsidades.
Може да е добър кредит, може да е като на покойния г-н Крюгер.Езиковата обосновка на един банков чек е като тази на всеки друг чек.Вашият чек, ако е валиден, в крайна сметка осигурява доставката на нещо, което желаете.Едно абстрактно или общо твърдение е ВАЛИДНО, ако в крайна сметка отговаря на фактите."***"Добрата литература е просто език, зареден със значение до възможно най-висока степен."***"Рим започва своя възход с езика на Цезар, Овидий и Тацит, и упада с надпреварата в реторика, 'изказа, укриващ мисълта' на дипломатите, и прочие."***"Един народ, който свиква с мърлявост в писмеността си, изпуска юздите на собствената си държава и на своето благоденствие.
I don't know what I expected going into this, but it wasn't too enjoyable a read so after a while I just fast forwarded through it.
There are a few good quotes you might get out of it, and there is some decent advice in it, but if you've ever done even a basic creative writing workshop or ever expressed any interest in writing, a lot of this won't be new to you.
There are also quite a few examples and exercises for the reader / potential writer, but to me most of the advice boiled down to:1.
Write a lot.9.
This is supposed to be an illumination or expansion of "How to Read," which was the highlight of the New Directions collection of Pound's essays for me, and it is, in some ways.
I suppose all of Pound's essays work in the same way: pointing at and into the Cantos, providing the reader with reading lists that can act as a map of the Cantos, and giving the reader a taste of Pound's attitude and tone to whet the appetite.
Pity he was a fascist...This is Ezra Pound's textbook/manifesto for reading poetry.
His vitriol against Milton is amazing, and he introduced me to several poets I didn't know (and made me reconsider my feelings towards Donne).The glories of Homer, Chaucer, Villon, Aeschylus, &c.
EP actually puts Shakespeare beneath Chaucer, which is interesting.
they are actually perfect and one of the few credible arguments for 'divine intervention'.)I wish he'd written more about Rimbaud and also the Provencal poets.
I wish I'd read this when I was 16.So, I'm reminded not only to read poetry but to SING it and LISTEN to it.
I won't compile all the interesting (or not) aspects that made the ABC of Reading a pertinent book.
He clearly knows his business and gives us fair bits of advice, the most powerful being his approximation of poetry to the music, in pretty much all of its elements.
I personally believe that that is beautiful and true, though this of course may be paired with more classical notions of poetry.
Half of the book, however, seemed uninteresting to me due to its highly technical analysis of old poems, well accordingly to its primary educational purposes, which I did not share.
Worth a selected reading, however, and the 3-star rating is but a personal technicality.
This classic work of literary criticism was very amusing to me, with its draconian pronouncements and caustic contempt for the sub-literate and sloppy. Pound has very strong likes and dislikes, and while his enthusiasms are often eccentric (Walter Savage Landor? Fitzgerald's translation of Rubaiyat?), the energy and certainty with which he trumpets them are refreshing. There's a critical worldview in there somewhere, albeit one based on aphorism and epigram rather than systematic analysis.
Awesome book! I'm not a big fan of Pound's very dense work of poetry, but these essays explain his philosophies on poetics on several levels and offer points to back up what he is saying from a cultural and language perspective. This book greatly improved my own sensibilities.
I wish this book was taught to all high school students. Pound walks the reader through the critical process and teaches the fundamentals of accessing difficult texts. If only I had read this when I was younger--it would have saved me so much time.
he really is a shit in this one. but a smart shit.
Buku yang sungguh-sungguh menyenangkan. Saya selalu suka dengan buku yang secara komprehensif memulai sesuatu dari yang paling dasar. Di satu sesi buku ini misalnya, memulai penjelasannya dengan pertanyaan "what is literature ?" Buku ini akan saya jadikan salah satu pedoman untuk menulis, membaca, dan membahas puisi.
