https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48044.The_Book_of_Merlyn
Once and Future King may be the finest fantasy novel ever written, and its final page is consequently one of the loveliest parting sentiments given to its eponymous hero.The Book of Merlyn takes place during the night prior to Arthur's final confrontation with Mordred.
I don't know what T.H White was thinking with this unfinished manuscript, but The Book of Merlyn is a wholly inappropriate ending to the Once and Future King.The Once and Future King belongs to Arthur, and to Lancelot, and Guinevere and Mordred and the rest of the table.
Life, experience and his own ambitions taught him more about humanity than Merlyn ever could.The Once and Future King was a tragedy; The Book of Merlyn, a travesty.
This is a longer version of the last book in the collected The Once and Future King and also includes some material (the ant and goose segments) that was incorporated into The Sword in the Stone before this was published. If you've read both of those already what this adds is mostly, erm, depression. Sorry, Wart. Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown and all that.
Although it is a little weak when trying to read it independently of The Once & Future King, when you read it immediately after that greater work it is pure brilliance.White's narrative tone draws you into a deceptive bedtime story world that swiftly moves with old/young Arthur through more metamorphic juxtapositions than a week's worth of "Wild Kingdom," as the fabled sorcerer returns on the night before Arthur's fateful confrontation with his bastard son with a singular goal in mind: to return the Wart to the various cultures of the animals to understand the final truth about man's distinction and a little bit more about right and wrong.The adventure is extremely bittersweet, however, as Arthur learns of the mighty and the militant within the worlds of ants and geese, and unlike the earlier adventures of Arthur's youth under Merlin's tutelage, these world's are now cold and frightening in their comparison to man's distorted attempts to control everything for personal gain.
The Book of Merlyn is a bit odd to read, particularly in the omnibus edition, because T.H. White cannibalised it for the version of the novels which were published together -- if I'm remembering the publishing history right, anyway.
It's all very political, with references to socialism, communism, capitalism, Karl Marx, anarchism, etc, and trying to relate them to the natural world.There are still some beautiful parts, like the extended part where Arthur flies with the geese, so it is worth reading.(But not for a dissertation on Sir Kay, who is not so much as mentioned.
Although The Book of Merlyn was not published in the author's lifetime, the stories of the ants and the geese made their way into later editions of The Sword in the Stone.
More than 1984 did, more than Brave New World did.It is surprising to me how well the Disney movie The Sword in the Stone captured some of White's storytelling.
It doesn't capture the depth of the story, the breadth, nor the length of it.I guess part of what troubles me about the "conclusions" is that this book seems dated.
I’m not going to say a lot about this book because this book was somewhat unnecessary, in my opinion.
This book seems to rehash many things from the earlier books as well as mentioning how Guinevere went on to live and die in a covent.
Lancelot lived as a hermit.
Mostly, though this book seemed to be a philosophical look at the recurring theme that might isn’t always right as once believed by the kings and lords.
If there’s anything that I can praise this book for is that it does take a more philosophical look at war and Arthur’s moral standings.
The final installment in The Once and Future King is a delightful journey through the mind of T.H. White.
The book consists mostly of dialogue on human nature (In a seemingly Socratic manner).
It is a thought-provoking and beautiful ending to White's rendition of the Arthurian legend.I initially read the first four books in the series in rapid succession, so upon finishing The Candle in the Wind I decided to take a break from the series and return to The Book of Merlyn at a later time.
Having finished this rather short novel I now regret this decision.....
Man seldom looks up above his own height after adolescence."Page 53"He knew suddenly that nobody, living upon the remotest, most barren crag in the ocean, could complain of a dull landscape so long as he would lift his eyes.
To recognise and to acknowledge What Is."Page 154I got T.H. White's The Book of Merlyn in my Christmas box, along with Sophie's World and six present-books.
White does most everything he did in the first four books, but better: more beautifully, with a deeper sense of melancholy and resignation, a more thorough look at his problem in general (war and the future of man), and a more centered and charming portrait of the various animal characters (The Committee).
The titular end of 'The Once and Future King'.
Paper rationing during WWII and the anti-war tone were probably equally responsible for its refusal.
It sat, unmolested in T.H. White's papers at UT - Austin.
Why Texas ended up getting T.H. White's papers is a mystery to me.
While I loved The Once and Future King, and rather enjoyed The Book of Merlyn, the book is more of an expositiion on war and human nature, mixed with a bunch of geese and ants.
OK, so that is too cheeky, but still, it wasn't as good as the first four books, and ended up probably being an unnecessary capstone on an almost perfect series, IMHO.
The Book of Merlyn is a bit of a disappointment in some ways.
Parts of it, for a start, were cannibalised for The Sword in the Stone, in the collected edition, and so they've lost their freshness and originality when read again here.
For another thing, the whole book is basically a philosophical treatise on the possibilities of the prevention of war.
It goes on and on in a rather didactic fashion, and one could skip whole chunks of Merlyn's dialogue in particular without losing out on story.Still, there are some beautiful moments of pathos, particularly for the aged Arthur, and Merlyn is at several points his good old amusing self.
So it's still fun to read.
I have four chapters left of this book and it is terrible. I don't understand a darn thing about it! No plot at all, Arthur is a communist ant and then a peaceful goose! I'm only a kid though and havent read once and future king. Thats why its so confusing probably. Advice to British Literature students dont choose this book for a project, BIG mistake!Finished It and it was terrible just like I found out four chapters before the end!~
"The cheek of the human race," [Merlyn] exclaimed, "is something to knock you footless.
Begin with the unthinkable universe; narrow down to the minute sun inside it; pass to the satellite of the sun which we are pleased to call the Earth; glance at the myriad algae, or whatever the things are called, of the sea, and at the uncountable microbes, going backwards to a minus infinity, which populate ourselves.
Then look at man, an upstart whose eyes, speaking from the point of view of nature, are scarcely open further than a puppy's There he is, the—the gollywog."

Simple but beautiful book. I came to this after reading Kazuo Ishiguro's The Buried Giant, which takes up Merlyn's question, How do you end war? Ishiguro made me want to go back to the source (one of them, anyway). White offers no answers, but who does?
This was...not great. The Arthur/Merlyn bit was a barely constructed frame for White’s philosophical and political conversations. I do like the hedgehog though.
The Book of Merlyn is White's initially unpublished conclusion to his masterpiece The Once and Future King.
Arthur, with whom we fell in love in The Sword in the Stone, is herein finally returned to his rightful place as the hero of the story, and I found myself drowning in pathos for the defeated King and my heart swelling with joy when he held his head high.
Ultimately, The Once and Future King is a novel of hope, of beauty, and of love.
He ends the novel with the triumph of the human heart's believing in goodness and beauty and love.
One to mark up or to loan or both and one just for the joy of owning.
Yes, I said it, some books are here just for the joy of owning them, of having them around - and this is one of those books.
We find our hero Arthur - not the young healthy and hearty Arthur we know - but old and tired and abandoned.
Somehow they mine the depths of what it means to be a hero - what it means to be tired and why man is compelled to War. In that darkness, White brings out the most intangible piece of being human - humanity and hope and the noble search for Truth.I am in awe.
This is more a wandering philosophical addendum than a book.
It is White adding an exclamation point and a flourish to his work, making clear just how much of a mess he thinks modern man at mid-20th century has made of the world.
There is very little action that makes the reader want to join the narrator on these little asides.SECOND READING: To my more critical self, as quoted above, the other four volumes are so good that the author has earned the right to have the reader join him on these little asides.
I hate to do this - normally I love T. H. White. But "Merlyn" was merely an excuse to rant about war and politics and the over-all nastiness of humanity. No action whatsoever, only rant, rant, rant. I did like the idea that geese are anarchists - but the rest was tiresome.
An odd little sequel to The Once and Future King. Written in the run up to WWII, this is extremely political (much more so than TOAFK, which was pretty political to begin with).
This was book 5 and the conclusion to the Once and Future King of the Arthurian legend.
White writes this book as beautifully as the others, but this one has a deeper sense of melancholy and resignation and gives a thorough look at war and the future of man.
This book brings Arthur full circle and concludes with satisfaction and deeper meaning.“It is a pity that there are no big creatures to prey on humanity.
Unfortunately man is preyed upon by microbes, which are too small to be appreciated.” ― T.H. White, The Book of Merlyn: The Conclusion to The Once & Future King
We have Merlyn teaming up with his animal friends to help the now elderly King Arthur figure out what the point of it all was.
It's not as good as the previous two books in the saga, but it gets three stars because of its focus on humanity and morality.White is very interested in the role of humanity.
Why do we think we're better than other animals?
Are we, in fact better, or are animals far superior to us?
White, you sense, is desperate to answer these questions, to help humanity find its way, almost.
It's a shame that White never got the chance to edit this one, because it would have been just perfect.A lot of this book is dialogue; a political and philosophical diatribe about how mankind should live.
In a lot of ways it goes on too long and is rough around the edges, but I'm glad I read it.
The ending was well-written too and supplied answers to what happens to our beloved heroes whose journeys we followed all this way.
If only White's publisher had given him a chance to round it off before he died, this would've been the perfect ending to the series.
Menos formal que "The Once and Future King", completamente diferente en cuanto a su acercamiento a los personajes, más surrealista y más cercano a una comedia de Shakespeare que a un drama histórico. Aún con todo esto me parece un muy buen cierre para la historia de Arturo por parte de White. Si algo hay que criticarle es que la mayor parte del libro presenta una visión muy pesimista del ser humano, su naturaleza y su futuro en el planeta.
This book wasn't as coherent as the first four chapters; however I think that the critical introduction does its readers a disservice. If you read this book, skip the introduction, read the book, and judge for yourself before returning to the introductory critique of White. I wish I had skipped it myself and entered into the story without the lens it gave me.
Actual rating 4.25I am so sad this re-read is over but I really did love this story. Merlyn and Arthur have always been some of my favorite characters and this book is just about them, both as adults, revisiting the animal lessons of the Sword in the Stone. So obviously I really loved.
It also uses two interesting themes present in movies to close out the book: the Final Goodbye and the Hero's Return Home.The main problem with The Book of Merlyn is that it is separated into two parts, 10% Arthurian legend and 90% discussion.
Although it wasn't an exile, it still gives the reader a warm and fuzzy feeling that "Some things never change." The use of these themes help construct a good ending to the series.The Book of Merlyn has similarities with Lewis Carroll and George Orwell.
Sylvia Townsend Warner, in her preface "The Story of the Book," does an excellent job of putting into context both this final volume of THE ONCE & FUTURE KING and the entire Arthur legend, as interpreted by T.H. White.
25)The solution is for humanity to evolve in a way that enhances "the speciality of man," that part of the brain dedicated to "memory, deduction and the forms of thought which result in recognition by the individual of his personality.
The end of Arthurhis best was not good enoughbetter luck next time.
Those readers who find themselves bored by all this chatter completely miss the point of the book: now that the epic story of Arthur is nearly finished, it is time to review and reconsider the epic struggle to which he (and all of humankind) has devoted his life.The Book of Merlyn sums up the grand lessons of the series.
He must bring himself to find some form of meaning to his life, and readers who have read the first four books of the series cannot help but do the same.This book is about us: humans.
