https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37738.Freckle_Juice
This wasn't my favorite Judy Blume but it came close.
It's me Margaret."This one appealed to me quite a bit when I was young because I also had a TON of freckles.
I loved the fact that Andrew WANTED freckles like Nicky.
This secret recipe will magically help Andrew with his wish for freckles.
Of course this doesn't go as planned.It's funny looking back at what amused me so much as a child.
Judy Blume was a big part of so many childhoods.
Summer time they pop up more but that's okay...I've accepted my freckle face at last.
Judy Blume...
So, I read this with my daughter this past weekend and she said "it was just okay." LOL We had a good time talking about the ingredients in the secret recipe and if we would drink it and why the main character thought drinking something like that would give him freckles in the first place.
SPOILER ALERT: The bratty little girl goes on to prank the boy who had freckles and wanted to get rid of them by trying to pawn her secret recipe off on him too.
I don't know if we ever find out if freckle kid drinks the concoction.
I remember reading this about 30 years ago and thinking, "why would you want so many freckles on your face"? But I had a fun time reading it. Now my daughter is reading this book and Blume's Fudge series. I miss being a kid.
‘Freckle juice’ an excellent book about a young boy named Andrew.
His enemy, Sharon hears that Andrew want freckles and offers him her secret ‘freckle juice recipe’ for fifty cents.
As soon as Andrew gets home he puts all the disgusting ingredients together to create the freckle juice.
The next day Andrew draws on freckle with his ‘magic marker’ to prove Sharon wrong.This book is suitable for children aged 7-10.
This book could be used in class to encourage and support individuality and self confidence.
I couldn't get behind this book. I thought the kid was stupid.
This buch is the prequill buch to Lorne of the Rings, where that little guy Frodjo really wants his Freckles!
So what happens is Frodjo spends all his days counting Nicky Lane’s freckles, and you know what?
So there he is, drinking freckle potion all day long like some bum.
So then Miss Kelly who is all of these peoples teacher she says “hey Frodjo I know a place you can get a job” and she gets some guy to take him to this shoe factory.
It was about him with his magical marker that was blue and he was poking polka dots on his cheek and everyone laughed. It's one of my favorites because it's like a whole story. I liked when he put freckles on his face with the blue marker. It made me heartbroken that people laughed at him. It taught me that you can't laugh at people. (age 7)
It seems as though my propensity for reading one book I like, and then proceeding to devour everything I can find by that author started early. Judy Blume was no exception, and I read this one because I liked her other stuff. It didn't disappoint.
L-A-M-E! I read it in one day, and there is absolutely no point.
I just read this in about 10 minutes, so it's beyond me how my teacher spent more than one session reading this to us in grade three. I definitely remember the blue freckles taking up more of the story than it did, so that was a bit disappointing as a nostalgic reread. But it was very cute, and I remember LOVING it when we read it in grade three. so five stars.
I’m giving 5 stars to this book even though we have only read half of it. Why? Because for the first time ever, my 8 year old son asked “If I up early enough tomorrow, will you read the rest with me?”. Wake up early AND read! My boy who very much dislikes to read and will do anything he can to avoid it at all costs asked for more! God Bless you Judy Blume. I will now pray that he likes the Fudge books and that this is not a trick.
This book tells the story of a young boy named Andrew Marcus who desperately wants freckles so that he does not get in trouble with his mother, causing him to be late for school.
On the next day on his way to school, Andrew draws freckles on himself with magic marker, in order to prove Sharon wrong.
His teacher, Miss Kelly, then gives him freckle remover in order to remove the magic marker from his face and neck.
The book ends with Sharon trying to sell another boy freckle remover while giving Andrew a frog face.
Having freckles was the solution to all of young Andrew’s problems: being late to school because his mother made him wash his dirty neck, not paying attention for reading group, and even being laughed at in class.
Edwards Lifetime Achievement Award, Blume’s text will engage many readers working their way toward more difficult chapter books, although some of the content is becoming noticeably dated such as the 50-cent cost of the recipe that took five weeks of Andrew’s allowance as well as the mother playing cards in the afternoon with her neighbors.
Young readers will still enjoy the lead up to the gross concoction, however, and identify with Andrew’s sickness afterward and desire to stay home from school.
Another childhood favorite! Loved this one so much!
Grade/Interest: 3rd gradeReading Level: 370LGenre: Realistic FictionMain Characters: Andrew, Sharon, Miss KellySetting: Andrew’s home and schoolPOV: AndrewThis book is about a young boy named Andrew Marcus who desperately wants freckles because he believes that if has freckles he would not get in trouble with his mother or be late for school.
On the next day on his way to school, Andrew draws freckles on himself with magic marker, in order to prove Sharon wrong.
His teacher, Miss Kelly, tells him that he was perfect without the freckles and gives him freckle remover in order to remove the magic marker from his face and neck.
Freckle Juice by Judy Bloom has 40 pages and was first published in 1978.Freckle Juice is the story of second grader that longs for freckles.  He is convinced that if he had freckles his mother would never know when his neck was dirty and he wouldn't have to wash it every day.  I remember reading this book when I was little and giggling like crazy.  Freckle Juice is a fun, timeless book that is sure to keep children of all ages laughing.  Recommended for young readers that are just starting to read chapter books.
Cute story about a boy who wants freckles just like another boy in his class. I like the creativity in this book as the enterprising Sharon sells her recipe to grow freckles and the wise teacher helps Andrew solve his problem in a way that doesn't embarrass him in front of his peers. I was smiling throughout this innocent and amusing story. Perfect for young readers!
Judy Blume’s, childhood fiction, Freckle Juice takes place in the 1970’s, in the second grade. Andrew Marcus believes all his problems will be solved if he has facial spots like his friend Nicky Lane. He inquires from this person how to get them only to found out some people are just born that way. This is a silly book meant to entertain and reminisce what it was like to be young and gullible.
I read this to my 3.5 year old at her request. She actually was able to listen to it all, surprisingly, with some voice impressions & acting. The book is entertaining with speedy buildup, good story line, and fitting ending; very age appropriate to its audience. Spoiler...I wish all teachers could be like the Miss Kelly.
Probably the only Judy Blume story I've read. I picked it up when I was probably 8 or 9 at a used bookstore with my parents. I thought it was hilarious and to this day I still have my copy! Such a cute and silly little chapter book.
I remember reading this as a kid and enjoying it. Reading it this week with my soon-to-be 2nd grader brought back some good memories.
This was an easy, fun, and quick read-aloud with my kids that sparked conversation about the desire to fit in.
Enjoyed reading this to my daughter.
He wishes he had them himself, so he goes on a quest to get freckles and falls for a prank by a girl in his class who claims he'll get freckles if he uses her magic potion.
The charm in this is how authentically you can feel the protagonist's desire to have his own freckles--the way he counts the freckles on his classmate's neck and wonders what he'd look like if he had some--and also how the prankster girl exploited his desire with a "magical" concoction that was just weird enough to make sense to him.The author captures kid-thought really well, and that's why so many kids have enjoyed her books.
As part of UMHB’s READ 3307, I read Freckle Juice by Judy Blume when I was younger.
I can remember enjoying Judy Blume’s books especially this specific one.
This story takes place at Andrew’s elementary school.
A classmate of Andrew’s has many freckles, Nicky, and he wishes he could have them also.
Andrew thinks that if he had freckles then he would not get in trouble and would be late for school.
Fortunately, in the end, there were teachers like Miss Kelly to help Andrew.
At the end of the story, the author portrays motivation to younger children about overcoming low self- esteem.
Freckle Juice is a cute story of a boy in second grade, Andrew, who wants freckles.
Andrew went home, drank the freckle juice, and got sick.
So he wouldn't be embarrassed, Andrew drew freckles on his face with a blue marker.
His teacher wrote him a note of a "secret formula" to get rid of freckles, to save him of his embarrassment.
The note gave him instructions on how to rub the marker off.
Andrew went to the bathroom and rubbed the marker off of his face.
The teacher told Andrew he was beautiful without his freckles and that the boy with freckles was beautiful with them.
Freckle Juice by Judy Blume was a great realistic fiction book.
This Judy Blume book is a story about a boy named Andrew who desperately wants freckles.
A girl in Andrew's class named Sally offers some help...the book goes into how desperate Andrew really is to have freckles.
Judy Blume keeps the book age appropriate and does not include any alarming content.
This would be a great story to read aloud as a class.
I think it would be a good story to read chapter by chapter and discuss predictions and opinions on the literature.
Freckle Juice is a classic kids story so beautifully plotted and so filled with vivid character studies you'll barely notice it's written at a third grade level.
The main character, Andrew, is loveable but a bit dim-witted, struggling gamely against his own irrational desire to have freckles so he doesn't have to wash his neck.
Along the way he bungles negotiations with the owner of a freckle-juice recipe and tries to bluff his way into having new freckles with a marker.
Valuable lessons are learned, or not.Seriously, this tiny gem is a perfect bit of storytelling, pretty much a national treasure of third-grade literature.
Judy Blume tells great stories!
I think her book, "Freckle Juice" would be a great read aloud in class over a period of time.
The character in the book is jealous of his friends freckles.
His friend convinces him of a solution called freckle juice that she had him pay for.
This book would be a great time filler book to read out loud to the class when there is extra time in class maybe before lunch.
It is a little longer than the average story book, and there are not really illustrations in the book.
I vaguely remember this book from my childhood, it wasn't one that made a big impact on me like some of Blume's other books, but I like the object lesson, it opened a line of conversation between my son and I about wanting things other people have and how it is easy to wish you were different.
This is one of the first times my son has read a longer book like this on his own and that I have been able to sit down and talk with him about it afterwards, I enjoyed the process and look forward to keeping up with his reading in future.
