https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15724701-threads
Sneaky, clever and witty, she is the ultimate introspective author for me.At a blush Sequins, Secrets and Silver Linings looks to be a light, quick read packed with friends, fashion and fun.
Passionately livid and personally offended, as only a teen can be, Edie rallies her friends to help Crow compete in a coveted fashion-designing contest, simultaneously taking to her blog to raise funds for the Invisible Children and try to find out what became of Crow’s older brother.Sequins, Secrets and Silver Linings was exactly what I needed.
The fascinating fun and ever changing dynamics among teen girl friends was delightfully distracting.
Jenny: Pro's: Up and coming actress, starred in a movie with a hot guy, her dad is a millionaire.Cons: Whiny, doesn't know how to solve her own problems without complaining about them.Crow: Pro's: Shy(like me), SUPER DUPER SPECIAL AMAZING FASHION DESIGNER.Cons: It didn't seem like she appreciated what she was given, but towards the end I realized she did, just didn't like to show it.I loved every single one of the characters in this book so if it seems like I'm harping on them, I'm not!
It’s one of those books that you just have to have on the shelf, in easy reach for regular reading.
Beautifully and wittily told with vibrant characters that jump out from the page and twirl you around, those that love the crazy world of fashion and even those that don’t will really enjoy this fantastic story, I know I did.
But it’s when Edie introduces them to Crow, a refugee girl who wears dungarees and fairy wings, that they will have a chance to use their dreams, of working in the fashion industry, United Nations and Hollywood movies, to help children like Crow to also follow their dreams.
The blurb says the rest, but read it, you’ll truly enjoy it.
A total wish-fulfilment story. This group of girls are not your typical teens. We focus on a wannabe fashion designer, a campaigner and a movie star who come across Crow - a young Ugandan refugee who has a flair for fashion.There’s little here that most readers will have in common with the characters, but their passion and drive is infectious. A solid group of friends and an entertaining story.
I picked this book up 80% for the blurb and 20% for the pretty cover. 100% worth it if you picked it up for either.The book is so much more than just the pretty dress on the cover representing the 'fashion' aspect of it. There's friendship, saving the world (well, starting out with campaigns to build schools in Uganda) Nonnie's cool sense of fashion and her perfect narrative.
This has been one of my favourite books since I was 12, and I'm home from uni for easter and I decided to read this as a nice little study break and I still love it. Fun plot, and relatable characters make this so so good.
This book is a teen story for girls. It was good but nothing special.
Four young girls set out to change the world one outfit at a time.Narrator Nonie, is obsessed with fashion.
She can design and create the most amazing high fashion outfits.All four girls fit their unique role in the story.
I loved how all the girls got along so well and worked together to achieve their goals.The story is all about the girls and how they help Crow start her fashion career.
Some of it was over my head, but I loved reading about it just the same.The girls are also raising awareness about the heartbreaking situation in Uganda.
The cover fits the story really well.
When I was younger I used to love this book!
Don't get me wrong, I still love the book, but I've learned now that these things wont happen to me.
I still read it every time I want to feel like a little princess again!
;) and for someone with so much unspoiled imagination, this book gave me so many hopes and dreams!I remember we had to write a review of our favourite book in school.
;) I was so in love with this book it had kind of taken over my life!
I just wanted to say how much I loved it!
It's not a book for grown-ups but I still liked it because it taught me a lot.Nonie is a helpful girl who is very secure about who she is.
She likes some shallow stuff that she knows is shallow but she likes it anyway."gossip doesn't make life better but it definitely makes it interesting."This book focuses on the positives.
it shows that good things happen to those who deserve it.
miracles like that don't happen to everyone.
Crow is an introvert who's been through a lot but she has dreams and she's positive enough to chase after them.Harry is too good a guy.
❌‼WARNING‼❌: A grand fashion fairytale coming up!!I am absolutely in love with this book! It's so amazing! It's full of fashion, sequins and charm. For a girl who's crazy about fashion and is so into haute couture, glam gowns and dresses, and fashion designing (like me
❌‼️WARNING‼️❌: A grand fashion fairytale coming up!!I am absolutely in love with this book! It's so amazing! It's full of fashion, sequins and charm. For a girl who's crazy about fashion and is so into haute couture, glam gowns and dresses, and fashion designing (like me
Nonie, Edie and Jenny are best friends.
Nonie inherited her incredible and eclectic fashion sense from her ever so stylish grandmother and her ex-model mother.
Edie is determined to go to college; one of her main projects is a blog.
Jenny is a rising actress who has fallen in love with an older co-star.
When Edie is recruited to tutor a refugee from Africa their whole world turns around.
Crow is only 12 but she has an eye for fashion.
This story is filled with friendships, fashion and learning about who you want to be.
I am disappointed with how this work turned out.
Now my main problem with this book is that it's very much targeted towards 12-14 year old girls.
This isn't really a problem but reading it as someone who is older I have a hard time relating and I feel like a lot of girls and boys will also not relate.
This is a problem to me as the book is dealing with such an important topic that I feel like everyone should read about not just some 12-14 year old girls (and the ocasional odd one out).
I'm not into high fashion at all so I didn't love this.
I feel like reading the other books but then I think about the reading this one and it just wasnt enjoyable for me.
But thats just what I like :) It was sweet and had some good parts and if fashion interested teens read it and start thinking more about poor people in need all over the world instead of fashion all the time its great!
A fashion fairytale with a social conscience, ideal for Y5-6. Personally I think it's a touch dated now - authors writing about refugees tend to centre them and their stories rather than plug the white saviour side of things. There are better books about the refugee experience now (eg The Girl Who Saw Lions), but as a general introduction to "people come from other places" for kids who enjoy fashion and Hollywood, this is reasonable enough and the characters are pretty engaging.
Die Geschichte war gut, aber kein Monatshighlight. Das Hörbuch war gut zum nebenbei hören und man müsste sich nicht die ganze Zeit nur darauf konzentrieren. Es ist für alle, die Mode, Luxusmarken und lockere Plots mögen und da ich ein großer Fan von all dem bin, kriegt das (Hör)Buch 4 gut gemeinte Sterne von mir!☀️
Une histoire sympathique, un peu enfantine mais avec de belles idées, roman détente qui ne demande pas trop de réflexion mais très agréable.
Jenny did well in Annie.b) does not AT ALL enjoy being on set OR on tour, especially at awarding events.There is really no reason at all that Jenny would be on the set of an enormous blockbuster hit, if she doesn't enjoy it at all.Furthermore, (view spoiler)[ Jenny went and did a screen test for a movie in Hawaii, not even thinking about her best friends she was leaving behind in London, just so she could be with a boy who was not only too old for her, didn't even care for her at all!!
So there's no reason why Edie would be interested in her friends' clothing choices.And why in the world did Nonie get upset when Edie was trying to design a logo for a T-shirt?!?!?!?!?!It's a T-shirt, Nonie!!!!!!They are really quite un-fashionable!At least the commercially-produced-for-merchandise are.
Doch Krähes Vergangenheit ist schlimmer als die drei Freundinnen sich vorstellen können…Wem „Gossip Girl“ gefällt, der wird auch „Wie Zuckerwatte mit Silberfäden“ mögen, denn Sophia Bennett beschreibt in ihrem Buch „Wie Zuckerwatte mit Silberfäden“ das Leben dreier Mädchen in der Modemetropole London.Besonders, wenn man die Geschichte als Hörbuch hört, wird einem die Gemeinsamkeit gleich auffallen, denn die Sprecherin Nana Spiers spricht neben Drew Berrymore und anderen bekannten Schauspielerinnen, auch die Erzählerin Gossip Girl in der Fernsehserie.Jedoch ist die Geschichte um die drei Freundinnen nicht so hinterhältig und teilweise ziemlich gemein, wie die US-amerikanische und kann daher gut von Jugendlichen ab 12 Jahren gehört oder gelesen werden.Sophia Bennetts Roman ist oft lustig und amüsant, manchmal bissig und immer spannend.
Ich habe dieses Buch gelesen um mein Deutsch zu verbessern, also ich war nicht so um die Geschiechte bekümmert - aber es wäre vieel schlimmer gekonnt. Doch ist es nicht mein Art :)
One day Nonie meets Crow, when she is with Edie.
After this Crow, Edie, and Nonie hang out a lot.
One day Nonie and Edie go to Crow's school bazaar to see her.
Nonie and Edie meet Crow's aunt who Crow lives with.
Nonie brings Crow to meet her mom and brother.
Nonie, Crow and Harry go to Saint Martins to meet with Harry's friend.
She agrees to give fabric to Crow and make dresses to sell at the market.
Crow designs a dress for Jenny to wear to erase all her fashion mishaps.
Jenny loves the dress and so does everyone else.
Threads won The Times Children’s Writing Competition last year and I’m so glad it did, it really deserves it.Threads is the story of three best friends, teenagers Nonie, Edie and Jenny who all live in London.
The story is flawless, the characters are absolutely fantastic and Sophia Bennett is a mean, mean lady for making me cry so much at that part (if you’ve read this book then I’m sure you’ll know exactly which part I’m talking about).The novel is written from protagonist Nonie’s point of view and she’s an excellent narrator.
Nonie is who has a lifelong passion for fashion.
The girls help Crow achieve her dreams of having hr own runway show.
Throughout this fashion-filled book, the girls work hard to reach all of their goals, while helping others in the process.
I still remember the part where they realized that the silly little girl that Edie was tutoring actually turned out to be an amazing fashion designer.
I also really loved how in the book, Crow could do everything all by herself.How she may be young but, she can still make some of the best clothing.
Und dann ist da noch Krähe, das junge Mädchen aus Afrika, dem Edie Nachhilfe gibt und das zwar kaum Lesen und Schreiben kann, dafür aber ein ganz besonderes Talent hat.Beim Lesen wird schnell klar, dass es in "Wie Zuckerwatte mit Silberfäden" nicht nur um Mode geht.
Schade, aber wenigstens kommt sie zum Ende hin mehr raus und nimmt ihren berechtigten Platz in dem Roman ein."Wie Zuckerwatte mit Silberfäden" ist lockerleicht geschrieben und lässt sich in einem Rutsch runterlesen.
Dies lag unter anderem auch daran, dass die Autorin es schafft, Kleidung mit wenigen Worten einfach und präzise zu beschreiben.Daher ist "Wie Zuckerwatte mit Silberfäden" nicht nur für Mode-Fans ein Muss.
Tell me what's this book about?Nonie, a girl who lives and breathes for fashion, Edie a girl who wants to work for UN when she grows up and Jenny a new star in Hollywood.
Together the girls quite by chance figure out a way to make Crow want to learn how to read.
Through their friendship with Crow the girls all get their chance to realize their own dreams, but is it right of them to do so?My thoughts on Threads:This is a fashion fairytale, there is no other way to put it.
When I saw this cover, I wanted to read this book,it looked like so much fun.
I have really missed reading books like this, and Sequins, Secrets and Silver Linings was very good.
Three best friends Nonie, Edie and Jenny are doing very different things.
Nonie and Edie are doing their best to support Jenny, her movie is about to premiere.
Crow loves fashion as much as Nonie.
Edie doesn't speak fashion, but she uses this connection to help Crow with her reading.
Sequins, Secrets, and Silver Linings is deceptively more layered then it looks.
While this novel proved to be a fun book that any fashion obsessed reader will fall in love with, it also had much more substantial messages and themes.The story is set in motion when Nonie buys a sweater and several skirts made by Crow, a Ugandan refuge who she knows through her friend Edie.
There is an author’s note at the end of the story about how you can help, but for those who haven’t read the book, I recommend checking out the websites Save the Children and Invisible Children.Sequins, Secrets, and Silver Linings is the perfect balance of light and serious.
Essa resenha foi publicada no blog  Garota it  também.Eu imaginava uma história totalmente diferente da qual eu pude ler. Pela capa, sinopse e categoria do livro, pensei que seria bastante infantil. Talvez em um estilo Como treinar seu dragão sem figuras. Mas me enganei muito!O livro é narrado pela Nonie, uma menina de 14 anos que adora moda e celebridades. Ela tem duas amigas, a Jenny que é atriz, e Edie que é superinteligente e de alguma forma quer conquistar o mundo. Nonie acaba conhecendo Cr
Mas me enganei muito!O livro é narrado pela Nonie, uma menina de 14 anos que adora moda e celebridades.
Nonie acaba conhecendo Crow, pela amiga Edie, Crow é de Uganda e tem um grande interesse por moda também.
Quando as meninas se interessam mais pela história de Crow, acabam descobrindo porque ela veio parar em Londres, e se deslumbrando com o seu grande talento para costurar.
A guerra em Uganda, e o que as crianças são obrigadas a passar por lá.Estre livro me fez lembrar muito Pequena Abelha, só que ele é diferente na forma de abordar a história.
They learn that she is from Uganda sent to live with her Aunt to get her away from her village and away from the rebels that kidnap children and make them into slaves or soldiers.When approached to do a fashion show the girls set out to help Crow reach her dream of creating fabulous clothing.
They also have the goal of raising awareness of what is going on in Uganda and to provide help for families to find their abducted children.I really enjoyed this story.
I enjoyed getting to know each girls' character.
Firstly, 'Threads' is published by Chicken House - this means that it has the same publisher as books by Lucy Christopher (Stolen), Rachel Ward (Numbers) and Sharon Dogar (Waves).
I have never read a book published by Chicken House that I have not enjoyed, so things were clearly looking good!
Sophia Bennett, the author of 'Threads', won the '2009 Times/Chicken House Children's Fiction Competition' with this story so I knew that it had something different to offer.
When I was reading 'Threads' I was able to enjoy finding out about how the fashion industry really works whilst also learning about a really serious conflict that affected many children; this is a very rare thing.
