https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3853.Heat_and_Dust
Fascinating book about the contradictions between and at the same time love of Indian and English culture… The beautiful, spoiled and bored Olivia, married to a civil servant living in India, shocks society in the tiny, suffocating hot town of Satipur, by eloping with an Indian prince, the Nawab.
He says he often feels ashamed before me because of the way he is living.
When I try to protest, he works himself up more’……’Why shouldn’t I laugh, he cries, not giving me a chance to say anything – he himself often feels like ‘laughing’ when he looks around him and sees the conditions in which people are living and the superstitions in their minds.
It revolves around Olivia in the 1920s, a new bride in India; married to a middle ranking and starchy civil servant and her step granddaughter (who is unnamed) in the 1970s who is trying to find out about Olivia.
There are comparisons to be drawn between the two women, between the two India’s, between their two lovers.The colonial servants are caricatures in many ways; and yet ....
However the portrayals of the two women, I found interesting and the character of Olivia was very good and she deserved a better backdrop.
Both of the British men fail to cope with India in entirely different ways and both women stay.
An eloquent and beautifully poised novella comparing and contrasting the experiences of two English women in India. The unnamed narrator travels to India to investigate and tell the story of her father's first wife, a bored housewife who has an affair with a local prince. Their two stories are alternated and have many parallels, as well as contrasts between colonial and independent India. It is easy to see why this book won the Booker prize.
In the 1970's, his granddaughter arrives in India to revisit the places her family once lived and to try to discover the truth about the scandal that surrounded her grandfather's first wife.There are a great deal of parallel events that occur during this novel; allowing you to see how attitudes have changed over the years.
Living apart from his wife, dissatisfied and also bored, events throw him and Olivia together with disastrous consequences.Although this is a short read, it really packs an emotional punch and it is beautifully written.
As we can see from the first page with an anonymous narrator, Olivia's step-granddaughter, called herself 'I' who set the scene in nearly two pages and started her journal entries fifty years later (that is in 1973) on 2, 16, 20, 24 February (11+ pages) then flashbacked (interwoven) to the year 1923 (6 pages) depicting Olivia's story.
This writing cycle goes on like this till the end, neither chapter nor topic is available.One of the difficulties is that some Indian terms seemingly unfamiliar to its readers have occasionally been used, for example, the Nawab, the Begum, the Baba, etc.; therefore, they simply stare in the face with vague understanding or in the dark.
You can understand my disappointment then that I didn’t like Heat and Dust as much as I’d hoped.Told in alternating story lines from the point of view of Olivia and her step-granddaughter (the narrator), the book moves between the 1920s and the 1970s as the narrator seeks to piece together the story of Olivia, supposedly from her letters and journals (but more of that later) and by retracing her steps, visiting the places Olivia lived in India.
After Scott, there was nothing left to say about India.They should have given Jhabvala’s Booker to Scott for one of his other novels in the Raj Quartet.
(As it was, they only gave him one, for Staying On.) When Booker starts making sense, I’ll read more Bookers.
I happily avoid them, for good reason, this one being a prime example.Ok. Tantrum finished.
But buoy is set: read this if you need a good snooze under a banyan tree.
Otherwise, find Scott’s Quartet and be prepared to have heart and mind changed forever on India.
She ends up becoming 'seduced' by India too.Olivia is naive but adventurous, and she doesn't like the other British wives and their disdain for Indian religion and culture.
However, whereas during the British Raj Olivia was isolated from the 'real India' by class, caste and custom whatever her wishes may have been, in post-independence India her successor lives amongst Indians, and can make different decisions about how to live her life.
The title shows that Jhabvala had no illusions about the reality of life for most Indians.
با اینکه همه ی آدم ها و فضاها در این دو دنیا با هم متفاوت بودن، ولی همون صحنه ای که دنیای اول تموم میشد، دقیقا شروع صحنه ی دنیای دوم بود.
کسانی که اول کار علاقه و حسی به هند ندارن (مثلا عاشق بودا و مذاهب شرقی و زیبایی های هند نشدن)، منتها با گذشت زمان در فضای هند و آدم هاش حل میشن و بهش "فرار میکنن" یا به قول خود کتاب :"هند نقطه ضعفشون رو پیدا میکنه و اونها رو به زانو در میاره." خیلی قشنگ این تفاوتِ نگاه ها به هند رو در آورده بود.
চমৎকার ছিমছাম একটা উপনযাস। রুথ পরাওয়ার জাবভালা আজ আর বেঁচে নেই, তবে রেখে গেছেন বুকার পুরসকার বিজয়ী এই বইটি, আর মারচেনট-আইভরি টীমের সাথে বানানো ৮০ আর ৯০ দশকের বিখযাত কিছু চলচচিতর। আরো কিছু বইও লিখেছিলেন, কিনতু ঔপনযাসিক হিসেবে তার কুশলী হাতের পরধান টেসটিমনি হয়ে থাকবে এই "হীট এনড ডাসট"।লেখিকার জীবনকাহিনী বিংশ শতকের কলাসিক গলপ। ১৯৩৯ সালে হিটলারের তাড়া খেয়ে জারমানীর কোলোন শহর থেকে বিলেতে পালিয়ে এলো ছোট ইহুদি মেয়ে রুথ পরাওয়ার, সপরিবারে, একদম টায়ে টায়ে, দবিতীয় বিশবযুদধ শুরু হওয়ার মাতর কিছুদিন আগে। আর ক

This is a lovely little novel.
It immerses you in two different yet parallel India's.
It is very hard not to draw comparisons with E.M Fosters great novel "A Passage to India" both dealing with the English/Indian cultural clash and the somewhat mystical draw of India on the European character.
I have a particular fondness for literature dealing with the follies of Englishman in foreign lands so this slight novel really appealed.
My only complaint is it does end rather abruptly, I could have read a much longer novel with both Olivia and the Nawab as central characters.
الیویاایندرلعل....
نوابچید ....هریبقیه آدمها تقریبن تیپ هستند...
مثل داگلاس و مادر نواب وماجی رابطه ی بین هری و نواب و بعدها هری و فردی وجود داره که به نظر همجنسگرایانه هست یعنی هری هیچوقت با زنها رابطه نداره مادر نواب باهاش راحته حتی داگلاس هم ایرادی نمیبینههمسرش با هری رفت و آمد کنه انگار هری محرم همههست فکر میکنم اشاره های مستقیم تر حذف شده اند این یه لذت نامشروع خوندن کتاب به فارسی هست تو ایران که حدس بزنی کجاش رو سانسور کردند و چرا سانسور کردند اما اگر واقعن در همین حد در کتاب در مورد هری توضیح داده شده باشه اونوقت به نظرم ناقص هست و شخصیت پردازی و منطق درونی داستان با هم جور نیست
این کتاب تصویر متفاوتی از هند ارائه میکند، تصویری بسیار متفاوت از آنچه در فیلمهای بالیوودی میبینیم. تصویر مردمی غرق در رنج و فقر و بیماری که از زبان یک انگلیسی روایت میشود! یک جاهایی هم باید حرص بخوری که انگار نه انگار این انگلیسیها، استعمارگرند!!! تنها تفاوت شاید این باشد که یک نفر از پدر و مادری انگلیسی به دنیا میآید و مشکل بزرگ زندگیاش «معنا» است! اما دیگری از پدر و مادری هندی زاده میشود و هرچیزی در زندگیاش مشکل است، جز «معنا»! چیزی که در هند زیاد است، خداست!
این کتاب تصویر متفاوتی از هند ارائه می‌کند، تصویری بسیار متفاوت از آنچه در فیلم‌های بالیوودی می‌بینیم. تصویر مردمی غرق در رنج و فقر و بیماری که از زبان یک انگلیسی روایت می‌شود! یک جاهایی هم باید حرص بخوری که انگار نه انگار این انگلیسی‌ها، استعمارگرند!!! تنها تفاوت شاید این باشد که یک نفر از پدر و مادری انگلیسی به دنیا می‌آید و مشکل بزرگ زندگی‌اش «معنا» است! اما دیگری از پدر و مادری هندی زاده می‌شود و هرچیزی در زندگی‌اش مشکل است، جز «معنا»! چیزی که در هند زیاد است، خداست!
הסיפור נע בין המפגש של הצעירה עם הודו והמסע לגילוי מה באמת קרה לאוליביה, ובין חייה של אוליביה בהודו בשנות ה- 20 של המאה ה- 20 .
לאחר ביקור או שניים הוא מתעקש שהיא תבוא לבקר אותו וכך מתחילה מערכת יחסים בין הנוואב לאוליביה כל זה מבלי שבעלה דאגלס מודע לכל הזרמים התת קרקעיים שחותרים תחת נשואיו.אוליביה והנוואב מתחילים להיות חברים ובשלב כל שהוא הם הופכים למאהבים.
לאחר ההפלה היא בורחת לארמון ומשם היא עוברת לכפר לא ידוע לרגלי ההימלאיה, שם קנה לה הנוואב בית.במקביל לגילויים אלה, הצעירה שהגיעה להודו הולכת בצעדי אוליביה.
کتاب مانند اکثر آثار هنری نمادین، وزن داستانی کمرنگی داشت و در عوض ظرافتهای هنری بیشتر.داستان بیآنکه اشاره مستقیمی بکند روایت حال و احوال هند است در اثنای استعمار و پس از استقلال. دو روایت موازی که در رفت و برگشتهای مدام تلاش دارد مقایسهای میان آنچه هند بود و آنچه هند است انجام دهد. هندی که میتوانست مقهور کند و شیفته آنچنان که کشیدن بار نامش سخت دشوار است و هندی مفلوک مفلس و مقهور که تا قلههای افتخارات خودش را نیز تقدیم بیگانگان کرده است.نگاه جالبی ست که نشان میدهد هند مستقل، از حیث جاذبه و زیبا
کتاب مانند اکثر آثار هنری نمادین، وزن داستانی کمرنگی داشت و در عوض ظرافت‌های هنری بیشتر.داستان بی‌آنکه اشاره مستقیمی بکند روایت حال و احوال هند است در اثنای استعمار و پس از استقلال.
دو روایت موازی که در رفت و برگشت‌های مدام تلاش دارد مقایسه‌ای میان آنچه هند بود و آنچه هند است انجام دهد.
هندی که می‌توانست مقهور کند و شیفته آنچنان که کشیدن بار نامش سخت دشوار است و هندی مفلوک مفلس و مقهور که تا قله‌های افتخارات خودش را نیز تقدیم بیگانگان کرده است.نگاه جالبی ست که نشان می‌دهد هند مستقل، از حیث جاذبه و زیبایی بسیار ضعیف‌تر از هند مستعمره ست
From BBC Radio 4 - 15 Minute Drama:A beguiling story of two English women living in India more than fifty years apart.
Her step-granddaughter travels to the subcontinent years later to investigate Olivia's life, which her family regarded as 'something dark and terrible'.The story centres on the experiences of two very different women in pre- and post- Independence India.
A decent book.
It actually brought me to tears in one particular instance:"Maji sat down under a tree and took the old woman's head in her lap.
She stroked it with her thick peasant hands and looked down into the dying face.
Suddenly the old woman smiled, her toothless mouth opened with the same recognition as a baby's.
Were her eyes not yet sightless--could she see Maji looking down at her?
Or did she only feel her love and tenderness?
Whatever it was, that smile seemed like a miracle to me" (114).I'm a little choked up again now.
1975 BookerAn excellent, quick read that jumps back and forth in time between 1923 and 1970s India, concentrating on the lives of the wife of a British official in 1923 and her husband's granddaughter in the 1970s.
written in 1975, this book won the Booker prize of that year.Set in 'modern day' (of 1975), but with over half the novel recounting events which happened fifty years prior, this books covers two very different times in India.
It is set in Satipur, in Uttar Pradesh.Our main character in modern day is unnamed, but is visiting India to investigate the story of her step-grandmother (her fathers, fathers first wife - her father was the child of the second wife).The story of Olivia Rivers (in 1923), is a family embarrassment - she crossed cultural lines and shocked society when she had an affair with an Indian Prince (the Nawab), and falls pregnant.
کتاب فوقالعاده جذاب بود. بسیار پر کشش. پرش بین دو زمان و شباهتهای بینشون خیلی جالب بود. ولی ۴ ستاره دادم چون نفهمیدم آخرش هدف داستان چی بود!دلایل انتخابهای اولیویا رو نمیتونستم تحلیل کنم. ضمن اینکه داستان بیشتر تعریف میکرد که چه اتفاقی افتاد. خیلی به اینکه احساسات اولیویا به چه شکل تغییر میکنند و در درونش چی میگذره نپرداخته بود.
کتاب فوق‌العاده جذاب بود. بسیار پر کشش. پرش بین دو زمان و شباهت‌های بین‌شون خیلی جالب بود. ولی ۴ ستاره دادم چون نفهمیدم آخرش هدف داستان چی بود!دلایل انتخاب‌های اولیویا رو نمی‌تونستم تحلیل کنم. ضمن اینکه داستان بیشتر تعریف می‌کرد که چه اتفاقی افتاد. خیلی به اینکه احساسات اولیویا به چه شکل تغییر می‌کنند و در درونش چی می‌گذره نپرداخته بود.
Because Jhabvala is clearly a good writer, and though the book is in journal form -- not usually my favorite -- it paces nicely and the writing has a nice kind of precision to it (though somewhat pretentious, as mentioned before).
She ends up playing into every conceivable, stupid stereotype, and our main heroine turns out to be a total ass.
The end of the book -- which I think Jhabvala envisioned as seeming heroic and lovely -- is really just stupid and self-indulgent.
And nothing in this book reads like Farrell or Paul Scott's Staying On. Jhabvala actually appears to take her characters totally seriously.
3.5 stars - not because it wasn't well written but because I read Ruth Prawer Jhabvala's short story collection, Out of India, prior to reading Heat and Dust, so the novel seemed less dynamic and compelling to me.
Mi dispiace per gli alberi che sono stati usati per stampare questo scempio.
The narrator, a tall, strappling English woman who is jeered at as eunich-like by the neighborhood kids, seduces and beds her married landlord from downstairs, a struggling Indian whose wife is ill.By this time I am completely in favor of the Colonial Raj’s moral code, including the closing of the shutters against the heat and dust, versus the narrator’s faux humanity – though, I suspect, this is not how Jhabvala intended me to feel.Olivia’s tale ends in a kind of feminist auto-da-fé; after fleeing the hospital (recovering from the abortion’s after-shocks) and her marriage, she retires to the Himalayas where she lives alone in a house put up and kept by the Prince for the rest of her life.The narrator ends up pilgrimaging to the same hill top village where she – well, we don’t know what she does.
In your teens and 20s you are impatient to leave your roots and fly away to explore a whole new world, the charm of new, and in your 30s or 40s you think of going deeper and deeper to dig your roots, the hidden treasures, the legacy, the pas, the charm of old, even if it lies in Heat and Dust.This is what this book stands for, when a young woman, goes back to India to explore her family's ties and the underlying gossips or truth for that matter.
In this short novel the reader follows the stories of two English women: the narrator whose name is never revealed and Olivia, her step-grandmother.
Set in 1923 during Colonial times and fifty years later in Independent India, the novel follows the narrator's attempt to trace Olivia's life: her dissatisfaction with being an administrator's wife and her attraction to an Indian ruler who offered her an escape from it.
What did interest me was to see how different life in India was for the two women, one thwarted by boredom and convention from which she eventually escaped, the other free to make choices and follow her own inclinations.
This book is told in parallel stories alternating between the 1920s and the 1970s.
Two young women both English, both connected to India by ties of affection, present two similar yet contrasting experiences of the India they know.
In the 1920s Olivia, the wife of the stodgy English civil servant, falls in love with a local Indian prince, becomes pregnant, and leaves her husband for him.
I know he is out of fashion no but I am reading Kim and it is such a contrast to modern accounts of India.
It is the first book about India under the Raj told from the female viewpoint.
You got to see parallels in today's, or 1970's at least, Indian society too, the book kind of shows that India has taken old British Imperialism from their past and taken it over for their own particular ways of living.The author seems to think Indian culture will *always* change a person entering it, whether for the person's better or worse, and demonstrates this in the exact same story through a woman and her great-great aunt.
I guess Ms. Jhabvala was striving for a "lost in history" kind of ending where no one knew what happened to the great-great aunt so the story kind of ended....and now no one will know what happened to the main character, her descendant.
A story about the complicated facets of love and power, and how we often do not strive for what we most desire; it is always within our reach, if we are brave enough.A brief, sardonic summary:Olivia: It’s so hot here!
My dear Douglas is right; English women weren’t meant for the heat.
I’m bored and passive aggressive, and entirely unwilling to go out of my comfort zone to cultivate independent thought.
To remain in disingenuous infatuation with the man I am married to, I will slip into an affair with tangible consequences I avoid considering!Douglas: I would prefer to stay in my comfort zone and marry a woman who never exerts her opinions forcefully.
I’m going to f*ck your wife.

