https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77041.Lord_Hornblower
If Hornblower missteps, the mutineers will turncoat and go over to the French, giving Napoleon a great morale boosting victory against the hated English navy.
The French, more worried about the main Russian, Prussian and English armies can do little more than send a minor force to retake the city.
Hornblower is asked by the royal family to organize a resistance, and for the last third of the book he, the Count, Marie, Brown and a band of rag-tag royalists wage a guerrilla war against the French army, tying down troops that could otherwise support Napoleon for the climactic campaign.
In the end, Marie is killed, the Count and Hornblower are captured.
Hornblower is definitely not a perfect hero for all his honesty & introspection.
I like that, especially in a man who strives so hard for perfection & spares himself so little.
He faces several difficult challenges in this & well deserves the accolades he receives.
He also deserves a kick where the sun don't shine, but don't we all occasionally?The characters continue to shine.
Many old friends in this story & some do very well indeed.
Still, I didn't feel like kicking him this time.On to the final book, Admiral Hornblower in the West Indies!
There's a short story after that & I'm done.
There's a lot of good stuff here, particularly in the first half, but Hornblower's perpetual insecurity and deliberate coldness are more annoying than usual and are only slightly mitigated by the fact that his charade makes him lonely and miserable.There was potential in the conflict when Lady Barbara invades her husband's world and it's too bad Forester gave it such shallow treatment.
His private admission that the threat of a flogging would be enough to drive him to it himself was slightly shocking - I suspect this was his insecurity talking.
Hornblower, now Lord Hornblower moves on to deal with some new and different problems. The book came close to getting a 3 from me as the affairs of Hornblower's heart got a bit annoying to me.Still the events that take place during Bonaparte's last 100 days is interesting (though you have to take note that had Hornblower been able to be true to his wife the bad stuff he dealt with might not have happened).Part of the story of Hornblower with some good story telling.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.
A good tale of Hornblower, this one later in his career, when he is married to Barbara and Richard is about 3 or 4 I'd guess. I did feel that Forester tried entirely too hard to bring in Marie and force Horatio into a serious misstep, both personal and professional.Hard core fans of Hornblower probably won't mind any of this however and it is a good book!Find it! Read it!
This is probably the only part of real interest in the entire book.
There was a bit about having to push on, but they were at peace at the time!?
(hide spoiler)]The novel is fairly tedious through the middle and picks up at the end with Napoleon's return to power.
Hornblower agrees to lead a guerilla force, because he is in France for Napoleon's return.
Except, there is absolutely no mentioning of any guerilla skirmishes, and the book just skips ahead to Hornblower's rebels disbanding.
I'm really hoping Hornblower's final novel is more interesting.
I can't believe that I'm saying this, but I hated this book.
Horatio is the military governor of the area until the conclusion of the war and is joined by Barbara.
The woman that he cheated on his first wife with.
After the war while Barbara is in Vienna with her brother, Horatio goes back to France and cheats on Barbara with Marie.
The woman that he spent 3 books mooning over!
Not only that, but he goes out of his way to cheat!
C.S Forester is an average writer when it comes to writing Hornblower's family life, romantic interest but thankfully he is great at writing a nautical story, making naval warfare look very interesting. Military history wise these books are very interesting.This novel was too much about Hornblowers love life and not enough about the pressed hands in ships, the terrible lifestyle of decades of war working on ships,techniques of running a war ship.
I have always admired authors like CS Forester & Arthur Ransome who managed to write their books out of sequence (Ransome also wrote the chapters out of sequence) but which a generation later, reading them in chronological order seems like the natural way to approach said series.This book is a strange child however; written at a time when Forester was diagnosed with crippling arteriosclerosis that was believed to end his writing career, he would live for another 20 years and continue developing the Hornblower series.
A number of threads affecting the regular characters are tied here, which means, the final published book (the next one) is going to be a rather strange one indeed with favourite characters missing.Having said this, the plot is strong and centres around the last months of the Napoleonic Wars.
My local library didn't have Commodore Hornblower, so I had to skip to Lord Hornblower (reading this particular series out of chronological order doesn't seem like such a sin, since that's how it was written).
At any rate, I found this installment to be yet another solid entry into the series.
I still find the older Hornblower much less likable than the younger Hornblower, and the second half of this book lacked much of the rousing sea action that Forester excels at.
However, the first half is top notch, and I found it interesting to see Hornblower's struggles with his high station and his peacetime boredom.
It's not because Winston Churchill loved Horatio, it's not because C.S. Forester is the next T.S. Eliot, and it's not because one learns an awful lot about nautical terminology, it's just because the Hornblower series are tremendously good adventure porn. This amazing lone ranger with his morals and sex appeal battling it out against Napoleon's military force on a boat. WE'RE ON A BOAT! It's just such nice reading fodder. It helps one can imagine a young Ioan Gruffud as the lead. I mean. Lusting after fictional characters is totally acceptable, right?
Tragedy and romance are in equal measures a Hornblower's best friend and associate Bush is killed in a raid and Hornblower visits and former flame at time between Napoleon's first defeat and his return to power after his time spent in exile on Elba. The ending is especially exciting as Hornblower leads a dwindling party escaping Napoleon's guard out to sentence him and hang him.
If you are reading a Hornblower book, you want to read about his adventures on the high seas, right?
The issue I have with this book, the second-to-last in the Hornblower series, is the fact that it spends more time on land than at sea.
It is the inner struggle that really got my hopes up for the first half of the book.
Now that he has all the power in the world, with only his inner demons to contend with, the book series is poorer for it.
Please return to the high seas, Lord Hornblower, for the last book in the series.
Lady Barbara comes out to join him, and enters uncharted territory for Hornblower's women in actually having ambitions of her own -- well founded ambitions, given her birth and ability.
Plus, in that era, there was little scope for independent women, so Hornblower's refusal to accompany Barbara to Vienna and play supportive spouse accords with the age.
Hornblower is quite liberal for the time in many ways -- in his dislike of corporal punishment, for example -- so I can't argue with Forester making him traditional in this aspect.
So nice for a Forester character to sneak off and make independent decisions.
But then, it's just a story after all and a great adventure story at that.
What I did find fascinating was the description of people's reactions to the war ending, to Napoleon truly being finished (the second and final time!).
Hornblower and his wife and friends hardly remembered a time when they were not at war, and his whole career had been spent fighting Napoleon.
Not a very likable character in this book, but it was still a great adventure, and we'll see in the final book whether Lady Barbara allows him to reconcile with her!
Wow. I am continually amazed at how Hornblower manages the situations in which he finds himself.
He rarely has to compromise his morals and beliefs while maintaining the rules and regs of the Navy.
And then there is Bush...
My fellow passengers thought I was nuts, but they didn't love Bush like I did!
The ending was the most shocking- I seriously thought that it couldn't be any worse.
Less and less pages were left and I couldn't see ho he would extricate himself from this situation, and then there it was.
I think I honestly felt as relived as Hornblower at that moment.
They are entertaining navy adventures and Hornblower is an interesting character; often filled with self-doubts, sometimes a bit whiny, but also a sound tactician who manages to win his battles and come out smelling like a rose.
This turns out to be a relatively minor plot in the story as Hornblower ends up getting involved in setting up a third front in the battle with Napoleon Bonaparte.
The story is very interesting, meanders along at times but there is sufficient action to maintain your interest.
Never perfect stories, but always entertaining, if you like historical adventures you will enjoy this.

Another novel from later in Hornblower's life, this one puts him through the wringer perhaps even more than usual, as he deals with a mutiny and leads a guerrilla uprising in France. There are moments of intense happiness for Hornblower in this book, which of course means great suffering follows on its heels, as it always must for Horatio. The plot hangs together perhaps more loosely than in earlier books, but Horatio is as always one of the more fascinating characters in literature, even when I want to slap him upside the head a bit.
Not my favorite Hornblower book, I'm afraid. The characterization was shallow, the plot thin, and the pacing a bit unsteady. This book deals with an interesting time in history—Napoleon's first defeat, return for the Hundred Days, and eventual final defeat at Waterloo—but the story itself falls flat. If you're planning to read the whole series, read it, but if you're looking for a random Hornblower book to pick up, don't start with this one.
I've been reading the Hornblower series in chronological order and, having completed "Lord Hornblower", I've only "Hornblower In The West Indies" left (a handful of short stories excepted).
But in Lord Hornblower we perhaps get a little too much of Hornblower's psyche, and not enough story.
Hornblower is made to seem a little colder and more detached than usual, although I consider this Forester's doing more than Hornblower's.It's difficult, I'm not analytical enough to pin it down completely, but I wasn't transported so completely into this book as the others in the series.
When they all travel to Paris, Hornblower is delighted to see at a party an old friend, the Count, and his daughter-in-law Marie de Gracay who helped him escape from France (in an earlier book - The Ship of the Line).
Hornblower had an affair with Marie before he married Barbara.
As they are fleeing France, Hornblower, the Count, and Marie are stopped by the Duchess of d'Angouleme and asked to organize a resistance.
That why I find his disloyalty to Lady Barbara and his affair with Marie so out of character.
Lord Hornblower, the penultimate novel of the Hornblower series, is a very good adventure.
But then Mr. Forester has to peg on another adventure, where Hornblower is less than exemplary and which ends...
well, let's just say I was completely underwhelmed.
I think I liked the ending of the unfinished novel better.
In Mr. Forester's defense, he did need to follow history in this historical novel.
Letting Hornblower enjoy a "happily ever after" at the end of the first adventure really wasn't an option.
Anyway, don't let my grumblings dissuade you from checking it out.
I enjoyed the first third of this book - classic Hornblower with daring and decisive acts by Hornblower to do his duty and win the day for England, however I think Forester would have been better off to finish the book there.
I can understand Forester wanting to include some pivotal historical moments in his Hornblower series, however the end result was just monotonous drudgery.
It was Hornblower without a plan and without that decisive, calculating wit that has seen him win the day on so many other occasions.
It diminished his character and left him a hopeless fool by the end of the story.
Well, I am almost finished with the Horatio Hornblower series of books and this one was not a favorite.
Napoleon is vanquished and abdicates but comes back again before the book is finished.
Sadly, our man Horatio indulges in adultery again and feels no guilt.
When he finds out that Napoleon has resurfaced as Emperor again, Hornblower chooses to fight a rebellion in France rather than go back and get a ship to fight in his usual way.
This seemed to be so unlike Horatio, that it really puzzled me.
Definitely not one of my favorites!
Another "more-at-land-than-sea" Hortatio Hornblower novel.
I suppose I can't be disappointed--nothing obliged Forester to set his novels here or there--but I do miss more of the naval scenes, either at battle or merely at sail.
This novel takes us to the very end of Napoleon's career (and yet Forester set at least one more novel after this one; that will be interesting), an end that just barely manages to save Hornblower (now Lord Hornblower)'s life.
Hornblower is back in France, and the moral/ethical dilemmata come fast and furious.
Hornblower is not perfect, and Forester is not afraid to lay bare his flaws.
It seems that CS Forester got a little bored with describing the naval exploits of his hero, Captain Hornblower, so in this book (and the previous one, Commodore Hornblower) he spends most of his time on land fighting the "Corsican adventurer" in less conventional manner.I prefer naval warfare to the land skirmishes and the bureaucratic battles detailed in these stories, so I dinged it a star for that. I also dinged it a second star because I didn't like Forester turning Hornblower into a philanderer.
I found this book disappointing. There were some character lapses with Hornblower that really surprised me. I did want to see characters from previous books reemerge, but there were aspects of them that I found grating and, for Hornblower, not consistent with my expectations for him.What a drag. I will continue to read more of these novels though...
The Hornblower saga is on my list of Best Books Ever, don't get me wrong, but Lord Hornblower is not the most interesting in the series. As befits Hornblower's status as a former great battling sea captain who is now mired in administrative duties, we don't get as much actual cannon and sail as we'd like.Possibly my fifth reading of the book, some ten years after my previous.
