https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12341557-the-wind-through-the-keyhole
King is returning to ground he last trod 15 years ago and it's as if he never left.There's nothing in TWTTK that is particularly important to the Dark Tower story, no great insight into the ending of the grand tale or really into the characters - it is what it is, an exciting and imaginative tale told using characters (well really only Roland as the rest of his ka-tet feature only very briefly) that we know very well and want to see in action.For me the pacing, atmosphere, and balance of mystery vs menace in this tale just hit perfectly and I got exactly what I wanted - hence the 5 stars up top.Will everyone love this book?
But certainly it's a must for all Dark Tower fans, and if you've not read King's masterwork ...
However, King’s public statements indicated that it would not change the core Dark Tower story and that it would just explore the long interlude between the fourth and fifth books.
I’ve always had a big question regarding that since the end of Wizard & Glass had young Jake still being a new arrival to Mid-World and completely untrained as a gunslinger while Eddie and Susannah still had a lot to learn about carrying the heavy iron.
It seemed like King was going to fill in that gap, and that was a story that I would have been interested in reading.I have to note here that Wizard & Glass is my least favorite of the Dark Tower books.
Getting everyone on board for this one especially- Dan 2.0 ...was somewhat...difficult- and it kind of went like this.I won't mention any names- but there was a big obstacle to overcome...okay maaaaaybe I will mention a name...Kemper.
For those of you that didn't like book 4....you may not like this one- but for those of you that did...this will be a pleasant journey.The rest of the not so resistant buddies/Ka-tet- Bev, Jeff, Jason and Evgeny- Onward and upward....let the buddy-read continue.
While taking shelter from a storm along the Path of the Beam, Roland tells his ka-tet a story from his youth, about going up against a skin-man with Jamie DeCurry, in which he tells a frightened youth yet another story to bolster his courage...First off, it pains me to give a Dark Tower book less than four stars but I thought this one was on par with Wizard and Glass.The Wind Through the Keyhole is really three tales nested within one another.
Roland tells a story from his younger days to kill time (Skin Man).
The middle story called Skin Man was the most interesting one.
I was excited about it when I learned it was about Roland's days in Gilead shortly after the events of his flashback in Wizard and Glass.
Yes, it does feel like King has some unused scenes from both last Roland's ka-tet travel (outer story), his flashback of book 4 (middle story), and an unrelated story loosely connected to mid-world (inner story), but it kinda sorta works - in a good way.My final rating is 3.5 stars rounded up.
He is the King in name and writing.And just like a Matryoshka (or Russian nesting) doll, we head back to the first flashback in "The Skin-Man Part 2" and then back to our Ka-tet.In summary, the story goes like this (not necessarily using the given titles): Ka-tet > Flashback to Young Roland > The Wind Through the Keyhole (main story) > Flashback to Young Roland > Ka-tet.As much as I loved the main story, I didn't love the ending to the Young Roland flashback and the ka-tet portion was just a reference point if anything.As someone who considers Wizard and Glass one of his all-time favorite books, I love me a good flashback.
The crack of exploding trees sounded like water balloons bursting against concrete.The tall blonde turned to the strapping man, a Cheshire smile painted on her face, “You know, I have a surprise fer ya when we get to the end of the Beam."The man shook the cob webs out of his head.
No sai, I ain’t.”The sound of a pair of pistols cocking at the back of head, almost made the man soil himself.“Is there a problem here, Quick Draw?” The second smaller woman’s voice cut through the chill and flickering shadows like an ice pick.“There ain’t no problem, Rootin’ Tootin’.” She turned to the man.
★★★★☆ “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times…it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.”  Whoops! Wrong quote there, but it seems somewhat appropriate for such a polarizing little book. I’m truly shocked at how varied the ratings are on this one, even amongst friends whose opinions I trust. I typically avoid all the .5 stories, since they’re usually just pointless filler, and seeing some of those one star ratings out there was not especially encouraging. Our fearless
Properly told, I might add, in the first person this time around.The story he tells, occurs fairly soon after the Susan Delgado flashback from book four.
To pass the time, and keep the boy’s mind off the horrific events he’s witnessed, Roland tells of another tale.The Wind Through the Keyhole is a very old story told to Roland by his mother.
Three, Jamie is a poor substitute for Roland’s original ka-tet in the Skin-Man story.
The writing was stellar in this book, telling a story within a story has to be pretty difficult. While the story was entertaining, I'm having trouble seeing why it was necessary. I'm reading the DT series through for the first time and thought I would respect the order where this book fell, and feel like I could have done without this pitstop that takes away from the main journey. That being said, I look forward to starting Wolves of the Calla to get back on track!
The Wind Through the Keyhole so named after the book that Roland's mother used to read him as a child.
Nearly the whole book is the story of Tim, another youngster from years gone by and his treacherous journey, not unlike Roland's story of his own teenage travels in the previous novel, The Wizard and Glass.As mentioned this can be read as a separate novel basically because the story of Tim has very little to do with Roland or any of the previous characters.
OK ... This book has nowhere near come out. SO HOW IN THE HELL CAN PEOPLE RATE IT ALREADY? I'm giving it five stars just to counteract the negativity.
This story was one that is older than time itself, according to Roland, a tale told to Roland by his own mother.
Why, the Wind Through the Keyhole, of course!“Once upon a bye, before your grandfather’s grandfather was born, on the edge of an unexplored wilderness called the Endless Forest, there lived a boy named Tim” And so begins my most treasured adventure.
And this is one of those books.I’ll leave you with a few of my favorite quotes.“In the end, the wind takes everything, doesn't it?
Man and boy, girl and woman, we live for them.” And lastly,“Time is a keyhole, he thought as he looked up at the stars.
We get about 100 pages of a Young Roland Adventure -- a monster of the week story that reminded me of Sam and Dean Winchester and an episode of Supernatural set in Mid-World (awesome idea and if Stephen King ever wants to write the Winchesters into the Dark Tower landscape I would probably die from fangirl shock syndrome).
The remaining 160 or so pages is a fairytale featuring a young boy on a quest to save his mother, that may be vaguely set in Mid-World, but has so very little to do with ANYTHING Dark Tower or ka-tet as to leave one itchy and sore.
I think this is honestly my least favourite book out of the Dark Tower series.
Now that doesn't mean that I didn't love it, I just didn't love it quite as much as the rest of the series.
I find in some places that it gets a bit long and my mind constantly wandered and wondered what would happen in the next book rather than focusing on this book and what it had to offer.
I feel like I'm making it sound like a terrible book and that's definitely not the case, I mean I did give it five stars!
Roland tells Jake, Eddie, and Susannah a tale from his days as a young gunslinger, but even that story is just another frame for the true story: The Wind Through the Keyhole, a fairytale Roland's mother told him when he was a young boy.
The fairytale tells the story of young Tim Ross, who must brave a dark forest, a possible encounter with a dragon, magic, and worst of all, an abusive stepfather--all during a quest to save his mother.
"The Wind Through the Keyhole" is proof that he still has plenty of brilliant stories to tell, and that he is at his best when he writes for himself, not out of obligation to his impatient fans.
The "present day (sorta)" ka-tet of Roland, Susannah, Eddie, Jake, and Oy. Or the "Young Roland" era when he ran with Alain, Cuthbert, and Jamie?So as I'm about to start this book, I find out that many of the "present day" crews are disappointed because we get a little time with the ka-tet, only to have the story shift back in time with Roland telling another story of his youth, much like Wizard & Glass.
It's ok for a little bit, but it takes up half the damn book.The actual story "The Wind Through the Keyhole" is this thing, a fable about a kid disguised and sold as a Dark Tower novel.
As a bridge between Wizard and Glass & Wolves of the Calla, this book couldn't be more perfect.
It draws on the dark, down-to-earth nostalgia of growing up in a harsh, mean world that Wizard did beautifully, but it also introduces the bat-shit crazy, heady material of alternate dimensions and dense mythos that Wolves began introducing in its later pages.
So it may not move the overall plot forward, but it's not supposed to.
That plot already ended eight years ago.
This is a bridge book.
A book meant for newcomers to the series to read as The Dark Tower 4.5, and in that head-space, it's up there with the best of King's work.
3.5 Stars Believe it or not, there was a time when I hadn't read the Dark Tower series...
I thought I was a Stephen King fan until I read the Dark Tower series, but I had no idea how much I could love King and his books.
But these are interesting, particularly Tim's The Wind Through The Keyhole, because of how other multiverse books might, and probably do, connect with it.
Overall for me, this was worth the read, although my heart still wanted more of Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy. Maybe...
Maybe Gan will bless King with another Dark Tower book?
DTProject2017 | Book 4.5 Many people didn't like this book mainly for two reasons:1] It resembles the previous book (4) which is mainly a flashback in Roland's youth and many people hated that book because it was mainly a flashback, so they hated this book as well.2] The main story of the book is actually a fairy tale and doesn't add any progress to the core narrative, which is something I don't mind since I'm more interested in Roland's past than his quest to the Dark Tower.This book reminds m
Many people didn't like this book mainly for two reasons:1] It resembles the previous book (4) which is mainly a flashback in Roland's youth and many people hated that book because it was mainly a flashback, so they hated this book as well.2] The main story of the book is actually a fairy tale and doesn't add any progress to the core narrative, which is something I don't mind since I'm more interested in Roland's past than his quest to the Dark Tower.This book reminds me a lot of Cloud Atlas which was a babushka book.
A wonderful entry into the Dark Tower series that King supposedly completed in 2004.
We don't spend much time with the Ka-tet, as Roland tells them a story of his past while they take shelter from a storm (a "starkblast"--great imagery behind that name).
As Roland tells the tale of hunting a shifter in a small town, King then takes it further and tells a story WITHIN the story, that of a boy who must attempt to save his mother's life.
It's this middle story that takes up the bulk of the book and it too was just gorgeously written.
A great addition to the Dark Tower series.
The story within a story concept is ok, but it doesn't really progress our ka-tet to the Dark Tower. I do love The Wind Through The Keyhole story within this book. The Skin Man, not so much. I feel these were story ideas King had but couldn't create a final product, so this book became essentially three short stories nested within each other. On to the calla!
Does this guy ever stop? I sure hope not. Live forever, Stevie baby, live forever.3.5 stars
The difference, I think, lies more with my expectations than the execution.My favorite part of the Dark Tower is the world King slowly assembled over the course of the series, and the way he eventually tied it in to a dozen or so of his other novels, creating a vast meta-fictional landscape.
This time, I'm feeling pathos for an ancient GPS*.* Never mind that it doesn't make much sense that this fairytale, ostensibly from an old book that Roland's mother used to read to him, would include incredibly specific details about the Crimson King-esque shenanigans going on throughout the series.
I'm not sure why, but the saddest part of this story for me was (view spoiler)[ when King describes the death of the dragon who had spared Tim's life after the boy jumped on his head; a dragon breathing fire to fight back a fierce ice storm in an ultimately futile effort just seems about the saddest thing I can think of...
or at least want to think of; sadly poetic and very depressing  (hide spoiler)]Then there's the tale of Roland's youth, spent chasing the Skin Man with a rather bland character, Jaime De Curry.
Adding this with some trepidation and suspicion, as the last two books in this series were so bad.
This appears to be a prequel and could be better.
But if Stephen King appears as a character in it, all bets are off.Updating this on 4/29/12: I read this today.
So much better than the last two Dark Tower books.
This one takes place in the middle of things, between books 4 and 5.
It is a novella within a story within yet another story.
It was a fine quick read, and nice to spend another spell with Roland and his ka-tet.
Roland & his Ka-tet are forced to hold up for a time when a starkblast storm decimates the path they travel and the gunslinger recounts an adventure from his younger days when he and Jamie DeCurry are sent to the small town Debaria to investigate and catch a Skin-man or Skin changer, terrorizing the community.A young boy barely escapes the Skin-man and Roland, more to comfort him, tells him the sad but gripping tale of The Wind through the Keyhole.
So I guess this tale is a story within a story during a brief interlude in the main story, took some time to think about but how else could you describe it.
While on this hunt he stops, and tells a second back story of a fairy tale that his mother told him named The Wind Through the Keyhole, which has to do with the Skill-Man.I'm not a real big fan of the black story and the side track in the Dark Tower as Wizard and Glass was my least favorite in the whole series.
Being something extra and quick I think is the reason the book is so short, does not include any interior artwork as it was in all the previous seven Dark Tower novel, and actually came out in a limited edition by Grant as it did before with all previous seven Dark Tower novel about two month before its actual release date.
A quick, entertaining read. It was nice to visit Roland again.2nd time reading - Sept 4, 2017I first read this 5 years ago when it was first published. I had given it 3 stars back then but am giving it 4 stars this time. I think I enjoyed it more this second time around as the series is fresh in my mind. It was clever to have a story within a story within a story and all were very interesting and compelling.

Imala sam malu nedoumicu oko toga da li da "Vetar kroz ključaonicu" ostavim za kasnije i da odmah pređem na sledeći nastavak "Vukovi Kale", ali sam prihvatila da je knjiga označena kao #4.5 od strane samog autora, te da ću je svakako pročitati pre ili kasnije.Većina verovatno zna da je King "Vetar kroz ključaonicu" napisao nakon što je završio serijal i u pogovoru on se osvrće na čitaoce koji se do sada nisu susretali sa serijalom, a koji možda žele da pročitaju neki deo.
