https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96472.Sundiver
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
. Events here are mentioned briefly in the following books, but are basically irrelevant.As I said – the concept for the series is excellent.
The stage is set – it’s a great concept.What gives The Uplift Saga a bit of extra spice is that humans have clients of their own.
They’re not fully uplifted yet, but before we discovered the galactic civilization waiting out there in the stars, humans have already been meddling with the genes of our most intelligent fellow Earthlings: chimps and dolphins are close to full, independent sentience.
Instead this book uses an old theme, prevalent in post-WWII American SF: Humans (read the USA) are superior to everybody else.
In this example, humans are technologically outclassed by every other space-faring species in the galaxy but are superior because their intelligence evolved naturally instead of being the result of genetic manipulation by an older species.
Devious, nefarious politics ensues and our protagonist gets caught up in it.A slow start leads on to an exciting Poirot-style murder mystery and then a further action-adventure in the chromosphere of the sun, where life has been discovered.
Apart from being a compelling story, the main interesting thing in the book is this sun-life.
Într-o Galaxie în care prestigiul fiecărei specii inteligente este dat de numărul Protectorilor care i-au îndrumat evoluția și de cel al Protejaților săi, statutul umanității este destul de incert.
Dar Biblioteca Galactică, păstrătoarea istoriei și cunoștințelor fiecărei civilizații cunoscute, nu conține nici o mențiune referitoare la originea omenirii ca specie, iar pământenii sunt divizați între susținătorii evoluției naturale independente (darwinismul) și adepții ideii unei dezvoltări inițiate și controlate de o rasă extraterestră străveche (dänikenismul).
Mi s-a părut interesantă ideea dezvoltării supravegheate a unor specii inteligente (delfini, cimpanzei), precum și premisa căutării unei origini a umanității, dar transpunerea conceptului în practică a scârțâit...
This may have been due in part that I listened to the audible edition and I'm not a fan of George Wilson as a narrator.The protagonist in this book, Jacob, is tedious and unbelievable.
Al the other characters in this book are diminutive to Jacob.
And, of course, it's only a matter of time before she let's down her guard and buries her head in Jacob's shoulder.I don't know David Brin's story, but Sundiver leaves me thinking that the author has a serious ego deficit that he needs to compensate for with his heros.I decided to read this in preparation to read Startide Rising, which won the 1983 Hugo award for best novel.
4 StarsMy first David Brin novel. I enjoyed this high concept science fiction novel. It is a fun adventure to the depths of our sun itself. Aliens, monsters, and ghosts fill the action scenes. All the while this is a novel filled with politics and racism.I liked the unfolding of the mysteries of this book, it could have been a gem. The ending plays out in an almost anticlimactic way. It was a let down.I will read more from him.
The Uplift books are tied for my favorite sci-fi series with Asimov's original Foundation series.
This is sci-fi at its very best.
Brin goes through an astonishing number of fascinating ideas and concepts, but leaves them for the reader to peruse or discard.
It's there by the truckload.When Brin goes into pretend-science he goes all in.
It works, and the mileage he forces out of it is outstanding.And to top everything off he makes a point of tying off each book with an epic space battle, punctuated with a stunt humans come up with that surprises (or angers) their alien counterparts for sheer boldness and audacity.
Most recent SF I read is actually a bit dated, David Brin's "Sundiver".
It's setting has humanity uplifting some other earth species (chimps, dolphins, etc...) to human sentience...
and then humanity encountering aliens which derive their intergalactic status on whether a species has uplifted other species (has "client" species).
The political ramifications on the origin story of humanity has intergalactic consequences.
Anyway, I dig it because I'm into books on animal intelligence, transhuman SF, etc...
About somethings, it seems Brin made some good guesses and the book is holding up when it comes to recent studies on animal intelligence.
I liked the aliens and the general mystery plot, but it was the other world-building details that stood out for me:- the technology behind the sun ships;- the anachronistic idioms used by one character who, due to relativistic time differences involved in her line of work, is from a much older time period;- the psychological/physical tests used to objectively decide that a certain proportion of humanity is too psychopathic/sociopathic to interact with the rest of the galaxy;- the espionage twists that crop up near the end;- the waxing philosophical/political on Aldous Huxley in the final chapter.I know that the next books in the series are set at a much later date, so I hope that the considerations the characters make in the final chapter have some effect on the setting in later books.Brilliant.edit September 2013: I've read a lot of sci-fi since then, including the next two Uplift books, and I'm revising my rating down to 4 stars.
You can almost glimpse the birth of Ancient Aliens ;)) Series I very much liked (well, some of the episodes, at least), which, unfortunately, I cannot say about this first part of the Uplift Saga.The main character, Jacob Darwa, is a sort of Hercule Poirot in a galactic interracial plot.
A team composed of humans and a few more races of aliens starts an expedition to discover a new race which lives in the sun's chromosphere.
Which sounds pretty good until you start reading.
Maybe I had expected something else and that's the reason for not liking it.
This was a recommendation from my husband, who read these books (The Uplift Saga) when he was younger and loved them.
For a science fiction novel that was written and published before I was born, I have to say it has aged very well; this could have been written today.
The technology and the science described is excellent, which was why my husband figured I would like this in the first place.It was also an unexpected pleasure to discover as I was reading that Sundiver turned out to be a pretty decent whodunnit mystery, and the perpetrator behind it all would surprise you.
My friend Jon Orwant once confessed that he had avoided rereading "Godel, Escher, Bach" in case it wasn't as good through 2000s eyes as it was through 1980s eyes.
The story is more action than I remember, but the quality of the ideas and the vividity of the world is still there.
The book is full of ideas--it easily has a dozen that would be the centerpiece of any generic bit of genre fiction, but thrust together they kept me unbalanced and wanting more.I'm still not ready to tackle "Godel, Escher, Bach" though.
But when the alien Fagin, a Kanten who is in charge of the Institute of Progress, asks him to join Dr. Dwayne Kepler of the Sundiver Expedition to research Mercury and the solar chromosphere, a project involving the use of new spaceships built with a combination of Earth science and technology mixed with the new alien technology from the aliens' galactic Institute of the Library, eventually Jacob gives in.
As it happened, humans have uplifted dolphins and chimps, the minimum number of uplifts required to be awarded Patron status in this universe of David Brin, the author.
Humans had serendipitously been working on uplifting Earth animals before they knew about any space aliens or their Patron/Client political system.
Plus, it's the first of one of the best sci-fi series ever, 'The Uplift Saga', where Man is an upstart infant race in a Galactic Society that has lasted literally BILLIONS of years.
'Mature' races 'Uplift' (or genetically improve and help to evolve) races with lots of 'Potential', but the processes used by the 'Mature' races are learned from the other so called 'Parent' races.
Humanity has uplifted two species (dolphins and chimps) before First Contact!
As a result, Humanity is seen as an upstart race with lots of power..
A beautiful series that needs to be read by any fan of sci-fi, or genetics!
This book just could not keep my attention. I liked the parts I heard but it just didn't grab me. I even restarted twice. No luck.The audio was thoroughly mediocre.
Turns out it’s his first novel and based on the critical acclaim for the next two books in the series (Startide Rising and The Uplift War), I can only assume that his storytelling vastly improved.
It’s a story about taking a space vehicle into the sun, after all, so there has to be a lot of science.
But it came at the expense of the characters (especially the aliens which could have been really cool) and the story itself.I will certainly continue on, however, as book number 2 won the Hugo, The Nebula, and the Locus for best science fiction novel.
Outside the basic tech, Brin relies on "galactic tech" to take care of other things, such as artificial gravity.Of what we learn about the extraterrestrial races, I love the idea of the galactic library.
Another clever idea are the magnetovores, grazing the magnetic waves on our sun.
And of course the basic idea of uplift is pretty cool, from raunchy dolphins to wisecracking chimpanzees.First published in 1980, this is the kind of science fiction I read in my youth, though I missed this one at the time.
This is also a very quick read.
A good beginning of an ambitious hard-scifi series (I wouldn't consider it "space opera", though it stumbles into that territory at times). This is Brin at the beginning of his career. It is more in the style of Hal Clement than that of A.C. Clarke. Many specific scientific conditions dictating events 'peopled' by a wide variety of intelligent alien beings and "uplifted" earth mammals.
Still, humanity trundles forward, uplifting chimpanzees and dolphins to sentience and continuing to pursue their own scientific research instead of trusting implicitly in the ages-old Universal Library that is said to store all knowledge that has ever been thought, if you can figure out how to navigate it.This great idea of a universe is the backdrop for a middling, just "all right", story about an expedition into the sun to try to make contact with a newly discovered race.
I've already bought all six books in this series, so I'm going to read them all.
I seem to prefer books in which it's ordinary people who do the things that turn out to be extraordinary, just by doing what they feel.
I know that one of them won the Nebula, so I feel pretty sure that the writing will be excellent eventually.My good friend Grisha loved the series, so I know there must be something good in it.
For those reasons I'll keep trying.
I expect it will eventually capture my attention and enjoyment.


Kažkada Eridanas išleido šios serijos 3 knygą. Uplift karai tada mane visiškai nukalė. Dabar gi perskaičiau 1 serijos dalį. Labai gerai, nors ir ne taip įspūdinga kaip anksčiau skaityta. Vis dėl to labai įdomu stebėti pasaulio, kuriame žmonija kartu su beždžionėmis, delfinais ir šunim laikosi prieš priešiškai nusiteikusią, milijardus metų egzistuojančią, tarpgalaktinę civilizaciją. #Recom #LEBooks
The characters were somewhat flat, and the story devolved into a kind of half-baked Scooby Doo mystery.The scale of the book is somewhat space-opera-y with a universe teeming with multiple alien species arranged in an extremely old and complex hierarchy.
Earth is newly initiated into this group as a bit of an outlier, as they are one of a very few known species to have possibly achieved sentience without the help of a patron.
(view spoiler)[Especially disappointing was the main characters "split personality" disorder, which largely seemed to serve as a convenient plot device to allow him to perform needed actions.
Brin is notably far too fond of the exclamation point among other clunkers.
As this novel starts, humans had made first contact with a galaxy-spanning civilization whose previous space-going cultures had all undergone "uplift" from sponsoring older species, creating a patron/client relationship between species.
They therefore have no patron--but there are species very advanced technologically that would love to have them "adopted." This has had several effects on both internal and interstellar politics.
Much of the book deals with exploration of the sun and the riddle of Solarians--whether there is intelligent life on the sun and their possible relevance to human origins.
You can check that out here: http://www.salon.com/ent/movies/featu...From there I checked out his website and blog and read his short story "Lungfish." It blew my mind.
It was exactly the Sci-Fi I wanted and so his Uplift saga jumped to the top of my reading list.Sundiver was brilliant!
Weather we were abandoned by our patrons or developed sentience spontaneously is unknown, but either way integrating into the larger Galactic society is challenging.
Look, I can't say enough good things about this book, and I am wary about saying to much since I don't want to spoil it.
This book is about a galactic civilization where only ones species has ever traveled to the stars without being "uplifted," or genetically engineered by another more advanced species.
And before reaching the galactic civilization they have a uplifted two other races from earth: dolphins and chimpanzees.This book reads like an episode of Star Trek.
Its main purpose is to set up the galaxy and premise for "Startide Rising" and "The Uplift War."I read it after I read books 2 and 3 in the series.
But I was disappointed because, like the other books, I thought the premise was so cool.
Mostly a detective story in an strange new environment, only the ending taking a glimpse at the complexity of the galactic politics; also, the features describing a schizophrenic personality are not that well executed (Bujold's Mirror Dance far surpasses this attempt)
Brin is not a bad writer but this is a bad and boring novel.Idea of Progenitors is intriguing,but everything else is rather clumsy mix of crime,space opera and hard SF.
It's a unique idea as far as I can recall, with a really interesting bit of world building.
In the future, humans have made contact with aliens, and learned a bit about how the galaxy works.
This mystery layers on to another as creatures are discovered living inside the sun.
The attempt to study them involves a murder, sabotage, a conspiracy, as well as the stress and strain of both First Contact and trying to explore at least part of the interior of the sun itself.
All this swirls with mysteries about Jacob, the main character who has a complicated back story and tragedy of his own.
On one hand, the von Daniken-like idea of having a "patron" species that shepherded humanity toward sentience is comforting and resonates with our need to have concrete origins and a sense of belonging in a larger community.
If humanity was Uplifted, then maybe the mysterious solarians discovered by the Sundiver Expedition are their patrons, or know who their patrons were.
Brin alludes to a past conflict in which Jacob emerged the hero (and which resulted in his subsequent psychological trauma); unfortunately, he manages to make it sound so interesting that I kind of wish it had been part of the story and not just a past event.
