https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/718477.A_Short_History_of_the_World
نقدر نعتبر الكتاب وجهة نظر في التاريخ من زاوية أوروبية رغم ان المؤلف حاول النظر لتاريخ العالم من فوق
لا تثقي بما روى التاريخ يا صديقتي فنصفه هلوسة ونصفه خطابة . أكبر كذبة في التاريخ، هي التاريخ ذاته. أهم درس يستفاد به من التاريخ هو أن البشر لا يستفيدون كثيرًا من دروس التاريخ. إن التاريخ يكرر نفسه لأن الحمقي لم يصغوا إليه جيدا في المرة الأولي.قد أنسوكم كل التاريخ وكل القيم العلوية .. أسفي أن تخرج أجيالٌ لا تفهم معنى الحرية .. لا تملك سيفاً أو قلماً لا تحمل فكراً وهوية.هؤلاء الذين لا يعرفون شيئا عن الماضي، موكلون بتكراره. ************************************و كان بدأ قراءة التاريخ أمرًا حتميًا
لا تثقي بما روى التاريخ يا صديقتي فنصفه هلوسة ونصفه خطابة . أكبر كذبة في التاريخ، هي التاريخ ذاته. أهم درس يستفاد به من التاريخ هو أن البشر لا يستفيدون كثيرًا من دروس التاريخ. إن التاريخ يكرر نفسه لأن الحمقي لم يصغوا إليه جيدا في المرة الأولي.قد أنسوكم كل التاريخ وكل القيم العلوية .. أسفي أن تخرج أجيالٌ لا تفهم معنى الحرية .. لا تملك سيفاً أو قلماً لا تحمل فكراً وهوية.هؤلاء الذين لا يعرفون شيئا عن الماضي، موكلون بتكراره. ************************************و كان بدأ قراءة التاريخ أمرًا حتميًا :) مقدمة قبل مجلدات الحضارة..
Having realized I haven't read some of them I went on a spree and downloaded a bunch for those in-between times when the next must-read book doesn't seem to be there.
This particular Wells book I have read...
again.From the dawn of civilization to the modern era, Wells takes the journey of civilization (and pre-civilization -- the first few chapters of the book cover geology and evolution).
I carried this book around in my college days because I found it refreshing reading.
This was so much more interesting than any other history textbooks I had come across along my educational way.Yes, it's dated.
You're part of the story; why not read it?
This book both pleased and disheartened me.On the whole it's a good high-level world history, starting from the formation of the universe and working forward.
Wells devotes most of the book to Europe but briefly covers other major cultures worldwide.
Being a short book there are many gaps and huge periods are covered with a few sentences.I found the coverage overall fair and surprisingly progressive (being unfamiliar with Wells' politics, perhaps this should have been expected).
I've seen some reviewers complain about Wells' praise of socialism, but given that many of the world's most advanced nations have embraced socialism to a certain extent I see this more as impressive prescience.So what did I find disheartening?
الحضارة ليست حكرا على امة من الامم بل تضافرت جهود كل البشرية في بنائها وتطويرها. اما تاريخ الانسان فهو مليء بالحروب والعنف كأن الصراع امر  حتمي لا بد منه وتدافع البشر سنة كونية والاحفاد يكملون ما بدأه الاجداد فقط وحياتك على هذه الارض جد قصيرة تلعب فيها الدور الذي يجب عليك ان تلعبه ثم ترحل اما تاريخك فقد بدأ منذ ظهور اول انسان على الارض والاثر الذي ستتركه سيستمر الى نهاية التاريخ
العالم غريب فعلاتحس ان التاريخ فيه يعاد....وان تمعنت تحس ان الحياة متغيرة جدا وانه قد يبدو لك بلا تف
As a student of history myself, I enjoy reading historical texts written in other time periods for a number of reasons, but the most relevant and interesting to me is what such a text can teach you about the time in which it is written, in this case Victorian England.
Everything from our politics to our religion combine with our place and period to taint the histories we encounter which means the way histories are told can give us remarkable insight into the people telling it.Give this book a read if you are a fan of history, HG Wells or Victorian England.
الحضارة ليست حكراً على أمة معنيةأهم نقطة بالكتاب هي ذكر حضارات بشكل منسق وبالاعوام
I read a National Geographic publication, a Simon & Schuster Micropedia of world history as well as a Reader's Digest publication.
I had another two similar titles on my book shelf, when I stumbled upon this title, while reviewing the Micropedia on GR.This is perhaps the most intelligent and the least biased account of world history, that one may find coming from a western writer.
Wells, too, does not give full credit and in places, seems heavily biased, but he does give some space to the Islamic world's intellectual, social and scientific contributions to the world.I found the book interesting on many levels.
كدت في الثلث الأول أن أترك استكمال الكتاب وذلك لأنه كان عبارة عن جملة متهافتة من عبارات ربما وسنوات بآلاف الملايين يتم الحديث عنها جزافا بعبارات الشك الممتلئة بالثقة الغريبة وكذلك التعصب الشديد لنظرية النشوء على اي حال فقد دلف الكاتب بعدها إلى عالم الواقع وبدأ يتكلم عن الأحداث وكلما اقترب من التاريخ الحديث كان متمكنا اكثر حتى وصل للحروب التي عاصرها فكتب بعاطفة صادقة جدايمتليء كثيرا بكراهية شديدة من سيطرة الكنيسة وافسادها للتاريخ الأوربي بل والعالميتكلم باحترام جم عن تاريخ المسلمين وتأثيرهم في اوربابالرغم من اختصار الكتاب إلا أنه كان يرى السنن التاريخية وتشابهها ويربطها ببعضها في احيان كثيرة
استفدت منه كثيرا ممتع جدا
الكتاب جيد و يسرد الاحداث بطريقة جميلة لكن يعيبه -على رغم من كون اسمه موجز- السرعة في تقديم المضمون مما عرض الكاتب لإسقاط لحظات هامة على مقياس من ١ الي ١٠ استفدت منه ب ٥
G. Wells was good at writing science fiction (which was way ahead of his times even then) but after reading this book i realized that he knew his history very well.Let me start by explaining how I came to read this book.
I forgot all about meals and sleep because as soon as I would finish a chapter I wanted to know what happened next.This book is basically about Asia, Europe and North Africa.
Read it if you are a history student struggling to understand the relationship between different empires.
In fact read this book anyway.
Since this work was written in 1922, naturally, it’s outdated.
But 2-3 pages are not nearly enough to cover sufficiently, well, pretty much anything.
Reading about ancient Greece, for example, you will learn that Plato founded the Academy in Athens and that Aristotle was his student, and on a side note that Aristotle was to become a tutor of Alexander the Great.
After I finished reading this work, I felt I did learn a few new things, but only in a very shallow manner without any (even the slightest) deeper understanding.
On a more positive note, it’s well written and fairly enjoyable to read.

H.G Wells was a talented writer, making this book an easy read. His take on the history of the world, seen through the eyes of an early 20th century observer, gave me a different point of view of both classical history (Egypt's long history to the Romans)and the development of modern civilization. Most striking is his conclusions about the state of the world following WWI and the possibility of another world-involved conflagration. Since the book was published before WWII, his in sites are particularly interesting.
كم هو جميل أن تتصفح ذاكرة الأرض !
واحد من امتع وأهم الكتب الي قريتها في حياتي
Very nicely written but 3 stars due to some shortcomings:1. Too many names and years, which makes it less fluent to read specially in the medieval period chapters.2. A bit outdated (as it was written in 1920)3. Illustrations are misplaced and sometimes irrelevant with the topics covered.
كتاب رائع حاول تلخيص تاريخ العالم كله من بداية الكون حتى الحرب العالمية الثانيه وان كان تركيزه اكثر على اوروبا وان كنت ارى ان الكتاب ينقصة بشده الخرائط التوضيحية

تاريخ العالم من قبل ظهور الانسان..
و ظهور الانسان و تطوره من انسان بدائي و تكوين المجتمعات الاولي و بداية ظهور الحضاره و نظام الدوله الاول بمصر و العراق و الشام..
و تطور الانسان في مختلف اماكن العالم..
الحضاره الاغريقيه و الرومانيه..
ظهور الاديان السماويه و دورها الكبير في تغيير مجري البشريه..
تطور الحياه في اوروبا من عصور ظلام و سيطرة الكنيسه حتي تكوين الحضاره الصناعيه العظيمه و الحربين العالميتين..
لا كمان بيركز جدا علي الجوانب الفكريه و تطور الكتابه و العقل البشري علي مدار التاريخ..
كتاب مهم جدا لاي حد عاوز يعرف اكتر عن تاريخ الإنسانية
As a somewhat short read, I've never come away feeling so enlightened.
For a book that was published in 1922, reading it was simply astounding.
One of the main things I've come away with is that over the past ninety or so years, we still believe in the same ideals in regards to race, religion and even social standing.
All in all, if you're interested on how we came to be where we are now and the thinking that came with it, this is your book.
Yet it's a wonderful example of Big History, a term that's only come into being in recent years.
It's a long view of history from the very creation of the universe providing continuity and as a result valuable perspectives and insights which the author is not shy to share with the reader.
It served very well the purpose for which I picked it up: it gave me a framework from which I can now delve into more detailed accounts of those parts of history that are of particular interest to me.
The promising oxymoron in the title coupled with the author's reputation compelled me to give this a long luxurious read ... and look what it did to me ... Nothing. Its a good compendium of what we've been up to last few hundred years but this book is more of a novelty than a textbook, riddled with eurocentric evangelism and whatever comes along with it. Perhaps they should consider renaming the book to indicate its finite content for it comes to an abrupt end right after the first world war, missing some of our juiciest debauchery .
A great primer for anyone interested in world history from the dawn of life up to the early 20th century. Each period is broken down into individual chapters that are no more than 3 pages. Would recommend to young people who have neither the desire or the attention span to read tombs of history.
This was an interesting read - more like a journalistic piece than a history book. The early part of the book was the most interesting and at least slightly objective. The latter part descends into propaganda for Well's own views on the future of the post WWI world and he may be the only socialist that sees the USA as an exemplar. That at least was in interesting perspective.
It is indeed short, but just the right amount. Many things discussed might be incorrect due to the publication date, nevertheless it is a good read. The history of the world is told fluently and enjoyable. Wells’ opinions about the social, moral and intellectual developments throughout the history of mankind make this book even more interesting.
تقيم متوسط لانه لم يوافق توقعاتي وهى ذكر العصور وترتيبها وذكر الحضارات وترتيبها الجغرافي والزمني والإلمام بالشرق كما اهتم بالغرب، كل ذلك لم اجده بالكتاب ، سعدت بقرائتي عن العصور قبل الميلادى في الفصول الأولى والتي تكلم عنها بنظرة علمية
Broadbrush history of planet earth from it's inception up to the second world war. Much of the early stuff is probably out of date butmy knowledge of the subject is so poor I still came away enlightened.
