https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45101.The_Mad_Ship
These are minor issues though, I can’t shake the feeling that Hobb is using this book just as a solid foundation for the rewarding conclusion of the trilogy.The Mad Ship explore the previous characters relationships and personalities even more than before, this is especially true for Captain Kennit, Wintrow, the Liveships, and Malta; the results were absolutely terrific.
It’s pretty obvious that Hobb withholds tons of the remaining revelations for the third book and I hope it all will leads towards a satisfying and rewarding conclusion to the trilogy.The Mad Ship is a great sequel with very rich characters and world-building developments.
Malta was the character I hate to love but she changed herself so much here that it was hard for almost half of the book that this was the same arrogant, cunning, vile, and proud girl I met in first book.
For a long time I thought she would changed her colors and be back to same cruel girl but it never happened and with each chapter she paved her way in my heart and it was so hard to hate her.
Paragon was not a character that I liked initially but he slowly grew on me and there were many times in this book where he revealed some painful secret from his past which left me sad.
And now he finds himself competing with his young protégée, Wintrow, for the love and esteem of the vessel.
Just look at the pic: Another pirate adventure Despite all their differences, Wintrow learns a hell of a lot form his most unlikely role model.
He has developed a lot, and, in all honesty, I really didn’t expect to see him come this far.
He seemed so physically weak, but Robin Hobb has created a character who has developed so much, that is inner strength has turned into outer fortitude.
"To love another person like that, you have to admit that his life is as important as yours.
When Althea discovers that the ship that she should have inherited has been captured, she sets out with Brashen Trell and the Paragon, a ship who has lost 2 crews previously and been beached ever since.There are so many story lines running through this book I'm not sure how Robin Hobb keeps them straight.
There is the point of view of Kennen, Vivacia, Althea, Brashen her mother, her nephew, her niece...
Within these characters a found those I liked and those I hated, but the wonderful thing about Robin Hobb's characters is that they are never static.
The nurturing and care of a Liveship is a delicate balance and when too much treachery or devastation comes into play it can harm the ship and make them go mad.Some of the characters who I really enjoyed seeing develop in this book included:- Malta Vestrit - a young, fairly spoilt girl at the start of the series who cares only for material possessions and getting her own way.
Goodness gracious, this is one of the best books that I’ve ever read in my life. I kept walking around my house last night repeating, “And THAT is how you freaking write a book.” Absolutely fantastic.
i did feel it was long winded at times especially when it came to the serpents (Like i'm so eager to know what happened but lawd have mercy can we speed it up with all the secrecy?) or when someone was thinking about something, like a long ass never ending dear diary moment albeit with better writing also the whole (view spoiler)[dragon rising  (hide spoiler)]was seriously underwhelming in my opinionThat aside, i gotta say despite being a fantasy book, Hobb continually creates characters and events that you can relate to in real life and never more so in this book.
I enjoyed the second book in the Liveship Traders series, though the pacing was less satisfying than in Ship of Magic.I very much enjoyed watching Malta's character unfold, and asked myself several times if I'll ever stop wanting to strangle her.
Hobb created amazing characters for this trilogy and they all have a lot of depth and especially the villains are three dimensional and definitely the heroes of their own stories.
This adds a ridiculous amount of depth to the entire story.Finding out more about the liveships was a punch to the gut.
Definitely worth a read!
Phenomenal. One of the best books I've read this year. I'm dying to start Ship of Destiny but I know I can't yet. :(
906 pages of pure joy.
The plot is advancing, the characters are continuing to grow and develop, and the lore of the world, especially the dragon lore, is being expanded.
She starts off as naive and rather shallow but out of all the characters she probably grew the most as the events in the larger world eventually threaten to swamp her hopes and dreams and childhood fancies.As any who has read the Farseer Trilogy and the first book of this trilogy may know, Hobb likes to pound her characters on the anvil of adversity.
Hobb, sos brillante. Gracias por todo esto. Gracias, de corazón.
This is the second book in the Liveship Trader's trilogy and I thought it was brilliant!As I read more of Robin Hobb's work I am slowly falling more and more in love.
This trilogy follows many characters and spans not only land but the ocean as well.
We primarily follow a young lady called Althea as she attempts to save her families liveship (a liveship is a ship that has a living figurehead).
This trilogy honestly has such an array of exciting things going on I'm sure there is something for everyone to love!4 out of 5 stars and keep your eyes peeled for my review of the final book in the trilogy - coming soon :)
Oh my goodness, SO GOOD. Despite taking me almost a full two months to read, I still found this book absolutely compelling. Plotted so well. Characters so, so strong - Robin Hobb's bread and butter is of course her characters. This series continues to blow Farseer out of the water (and I liked Farseer, but recognize its many weaknesses).
Wait what that’s it? Ah ok.. well, amazing..plot..character development, interactions and relationships growth.. feelings...more feelings.. heart-stopping events...motives that messes with your mind... Is he good? Is he bad?.. intrigue...ahh the feelings.. BADASSERY, did I get everything? Probably not even close.There you go, you just have to create full sentences with these words and you’ll get the picture. Now excuse me while I run to start Ship of Destiny!
4.5 stars. Can’t get over how much I care about these characters, and how intricate and fascinating the politics of this world are. Hobb was the enemy of her own momentum towards the end, dragging scenes out that should’ve been breathtaking. But still, this series continues to be everything I want in fantasy, and more.
Superb middle book of an amazing series. Excellent development of some of the major characters, particularly Malta from bitch to fave, sea battles, romance, political intrigue, revelations about where the River Wild Traders obtain wizardwood, betrayal and some sad losses. A brilliant series - right up there with the best I have read.
Hay un par de cositas que no puedo dejar de mencionar y que no me gustaron del libro:-La edición-La traducción-No hubo chape intenso-Que ahora necesito sí o sí leer el tercero.Todo lo demás, fue tan perfecto y mucho mejor de lo que esperaba, que ahora para superarlo solo puedo cantar Bed of Roses y llorar en el proceso. Bye. ---------------Bueno, terminó Bed of Roses, yo terminé de aullarle a la pantalla cantando a los cuatro vientos y llegó el momento de enfriarme y hacer una reseña.  ¿Por qué
Hay un par de cositas que no puedo dejar de mencionar y que no me gustaron del libro:-La edición-La traducción-No hubo chape intenso-Que ahora necesito sí o sí leer el tercero.Todo lo demás, fue tan perfecto y mucho mejor de lo que esperaba, que ahora para superarlo solo puedo cantar Bed of Roses y llorar en el proceso.
Eso me explica por qué en el medio del libro me encontré con una joyita como esta: 
Normalmente sucede eso con las trilogías: el libro del medio suele ser solo el camino que lleva al tercero, en el que no sucede nada más que pequeñas pistas para poner en marcha el final de la historia.
All of the setup that she did in the first book pays off here, especially since the characters are coming together and there are fewer narrative threads to follow.
But that's a minor quibble.Some other thoughts:(view spoiler)[- I loved to hate Malta in the last book, and now I look forward to reading from her perspective.
Also, are we done with the contract between Bingtown and the Rain Wild, or is that going to come up in the third book?- Wintrow has fallen like a billion points in my power ranking.
The adventures of the Vestrits, the liveships and Kennit continue. The Rain Wild Traders came into focus and the mystery behind the sea snakes’ quest and liveships is revealed. And what a mystery! The characters’ personalities shift: some became more bold, some more likable, some more despiteful but they all grow one way or the other. The ending is apotheotic and I’m left dreaming of all the wonders :)
4.5 stars, still epic, I just thought it has some second-book pacing issues! Hobb’s character development is literal magic though.
Book 1: 4.5*Book 2: 4.5*As good if not a little better than book one simply because you're that much more involved in the characters and story. Also to reiterate from my book one review this series smokes Farseer where I hated Fitz. The characters are so much more robust and layered. Looking forward book three to see how it all turns out.
Είναι πολύ συνηθισμένο σε μία τριλογία να υπάρχει στο δεύτερο μέρος της μία διαφορετική προσέγγιση, με τη δράση να παραμερίζεται για χάρη της ανάπτυξης των χαρακτήρων και την περιγραφή της ψυχολογικής κυρίως ωρίμανσης τους πριν από την τελική μάχη του τρίτου μέρους.
Δυστυχώς όμως πολλές φορές αυτή η προσέγγιση κάνει αυτό το δεύτερο μέρος να είναι πιο υποτονικό και λιγότερο ενδιαφέρον.
Μία τέτοια προσέγγιση συναντάμε και στο δεύτερο μέρος αυτής της τριλογίας αλλά το αποτέλεσμα είναι το ακριβώς αντίθετο.
Παράλληλα τα μυστήρια που συναντάμε στο πρώτο μέρος αρχίζουν να ξεδιαλύνουν αποκαλύπτοντας μας πλήθος συμβολισμών και υπαρξιακών ερωτημάτων.
Oh Kennit, you magnificent bastard. You never cease to amaze me with your ingenious cunning, charismatic leadership, and downright selfishness. You are absolutely horrible, yet I can't help but cheer you on.
Nos hemos pasado mucho (demasiado) tiempo discutiendo que si la renovación de la fantasía, pero difícilmente en tal debate o tales afirmaciones hallamos mencionada a Hobb. No sé si sea por el recuerdo de la trilogía del Vatídico, que es cuadradamente medieval, pero pocos voltean a ver a lo que pasa al sur de los Seis Ducados como un ejemplo de innovaciones estilísticas en el género.  No he leído nada de Tim Powers (el único ejemplo similar en el que puedo pensar ahora) para contrastarlo, pero m
No sé si sea por el recuerdo de la trilogía del Vatídico, que es cuadradamente medieval, pero pocos voltean a ver a lo que pasa al sur de los Seis Ducados como un ejemplo de innovaciones estilísticas en el género.
No sé si oí mucho la música de Piratas del Caribe o tenía en la cabeza el único capítulo que he visto de Black Sails, pero esta ambientación de verdad se siente.
-El ‘juego de seducción’ entre Vivacia y Kennit de repente se detiene como a las 2/3 partes del libro.
If you love rich high fantasy novels, I highly suggest adding Robin Hobb's books to your to-be-read pile.
We learn more about the liveships' history and creation, the mysterious sea serpents, and the Rain Wild Traders.
We even visit the Rain Wilds and find more about the fascinating pasts of the Elderlings!The Liveship Traders Trilogy is quite different from the Farseer Trilogy in that it doesn't focus on one character (e.g. Fitz).
The Mad Ship is told from multiple point of views, from Bingtown and Rain Wild Traders, to liveships, pirates and sea serpents.
I've fallen head over heels in love with this story.Mad Ship picks up shortly after the events of Ship of Magic.
I missed Althea, Brashen, Wintrow, Ronica, Amber, and yes, even Malta and Kennit.Robin Hobb's writing is one of the main reasons I keep returning to her work.
She is a master.The world of the Liveship Traders is fully realized in this installment.
Things are revealed that make the tale cohesive although I get the feeling Ms. Hobb knows much more than she's telling (which is perfectly okay).
I have a feeling that Hobb isn't done breaking my heart, though.Mad Ship is one of my all-time favorite books now.
There are plenty of people and other creatues at the edge of their existence, or just at the edge of life as they knew it.Second books in trilogies are always a bit weird.
They don’t have the big rush to the finish the last book has, but neither do they have the excitement of a new world.
Once in a while there is an exception though, and this is one of them: this book brings enough new elements to keep us intrigued into this world she created, and it has plenty of characters to love or despise.
4.5I... like Malta?
The quality of her stories is always consistent (most have said The Soldier’s Son Trilogy has been her weakest series to date – I’d probably agree, but to date I have only read the first of it).
So much more is introduced within Mad Ship that takes the plot to a whole new level.
Mad Ship is not like those.
Instead of taking something away from the story, these hints enhance it.
Because of this, I found the plot to be more engaging, and I was drawn further into the story.
By the end of Mad Ship, the story comes together at a rapid rate, and I for one felt rewarded and satisfied.
