https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34275212-girls-burn-brighter
“What is love if not a hunger?” Finishing this book was so bittersweet. I both love and hate the ending.Girls Burn Brighter is a book about two young lives - that of Poornima and Savitha - and it takes us through a lot of tragic events. That being said, I didn't find it emotionally-manipulative. The author's storytelling is definitely evocative, but it is straightforward enough that the horrific events don't feel gratuitous, and the two women at the centre of the story are what burn brightest,
I both love and hate the ending.Girls Burn Brighter is a book about two young lives - that of Poornima and Savitha - and it takes us through a lot of tragic events.
The author's storytelling is definitely evocative, but it is straightforward enough that the horrific events don't feel gratuitous, and the two women at the centre of the story are what burn brightest, not the things that happen to them.Poornima and Savitha grow up in the poor weaver village of Indravalli, India.
All the fiery stars to Girls Burn Brighter!
After finishing Girls Burn Brighter, I immediately wished I could have the experience of reading it all over again.
What happens to Poornima and Savitha over the course of their young lives is nothing short of dark, haunting, devastating, and heartbreaking.
The writing is stunning and filled with descriptions of the vivid landscapes contrasting with the heart-rending events these friends were subjected to - only because they were girls.
The symbolism of fire: strength, vitality, resilience; Poornima and Savitha are filled with fire, and together, as friends, they do burn brighter.
That's the way it is: If two people want to be together, they'll find a way. They'll forge a way.  Literary fiction is not the common genre I go for. It has been, though, a genre I have grown quite interested in because it is very different from contemporary or the common kind of books I read. I thought of reading something that makes you realize and analyze something so important, like this. Girls Burn Brighter introduces us to the difficulties two young girls need to face to find their hope,
I kept feeling bad for the characters and couldn't imagine what kind of hard life it must be for Savitha and Poornima as two Indians were mistreated for being girls, were taken as property, as slaves, as toys, as something to use.
I felt grief for them and wished I could just take them away from the horrible life they were living.There was nothing I didn't like about Savitha and Poornima.
Everyone treated Poornima like garbage and she did not give up on her faith and hope of life and finding her friend.
In only two pages, it was lovely, touching, and hard-hitting, everything that I hoped the rest of the book was going to be.The story then begins with two girls, Poornima and Savitha, who become fast friends in their adolescence, who work together for Poornima's father, weaving saris.
But there is just no end to the suffering Poornima and Savitha go through, for absolutely no narrative reason.
It's hard to talk about this without giving specific examples, but basically, it started to feel like torture porn after a while.
A cruel act will send Savitha on the run, and shortly after Poornima will run from a horrible situation she finds herself in, now turning her attention to reuniting with her friend.The story takes us from India to the United States, chapters alternate between the girls as they tell their story.
Not an easy book to read, so many horrific things happen to these girls, alone in the world without a protector.
I had to keep putting the book down, turning to something else, the abuse almost relentless at times.
Poornima - named after the moon - Savitha - named after the sun - are two of the most resilient - brave - and beautiful young girls - you’ll meet in any novel you’ll read.
These girls meet in the village where they were born: in India.
I don’t even want to compare which girls story was worse.
SUFFERING & PAIN .....is SUFFERING & PAIN!The brutality of childhood like these girls experienced - is unimaginable- difficult to read - overwhelmingly tragic.
It’s a book that would benefit being read with a group - examine & discuss.
Savitha has sat at a loom before; she knows how to weave threads, and this is where the start of a bright friendship begins.Poornima and her father have two looms, a place where saris and income for family life take place.
And you can see also taste the pain and humiliation that only comes by being born female in a country that discards women with a simple push.Girls Burn Brighter book is my first reading experience with the author Shobha Rao. My travels to South India has undoubtedly played a role in my enjoyment of the story and setting, but it is not essential.
I heard about this book from The Readers, who are considering it for their summer read. I missed it when it came out in March. I loved this story about two female friends from the cloth-eaving area of India, who are separated and look for each other. The author made me really invested in the characters and I read it in one day.
Poornima and Savitha find ways to hold onto each other in a country that considers their existence a burden.They are both born poor and given few opportunities.
The women in this book experience every kind of cruel and harsh  abuse.
I learned about India, poverty and friendship in a way that will stay with me for a long time.
Savitha and Poornima burn bright with the kind of love and hope that I want to carry in myself.
Recommended for Readers: -who want to be immersed in another culture-enjoy empowering stories about women-enjoy heart wrenching contemporaries
Savitha is from an extremely poor family and comes to work for Poornima's father.
Poornima is heart-broken and enters into a loveless and abusive marriage.
Poornima eventually goes in search of Savitha, entering into the sordid underworld of prostitution and human trafficking.
This book is heart-wrenching, the women suffering and enduring such horrific crimes against them.
The friendship and love between Savitha and Poornima burns bright, guiding them through their darkest times, giving them the strength and courage to go on.Shobha Rao is simply brilliant.
This is a story that will no doubt stay with me for a long time and I highly recommend this book.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWith social media being full of Bad Men Saying Stupid and Hurtful Shit, you're probably asking yourself why I'd read a book like this, which basically exemplifies female objectification at its worst, running the gamut of topics such as sex trafficking, sexual abuse and assault, forced marriage, colorism, mutilation, and other grim facets stemming from gender inequality.Well, because these issues are real issues - and with some people doing
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWith social media being full of Bad Men Saying Stupid and Hurtful Shit, you're probably asking yourself why I'd read a book like this, which basically exemplifies female objectification at its worst, running the gamut of topics such as sex trafficking, sexual abuse and assault, forced marriage, colorism, mutilation, and other grim facets stemming from gender inequality.Well, because these issues are real issues - and with some people doing their damnedest to silence the victims or others sweeping this unpleasantness under the carpet for being too unsavory, I think it's really important that these stories get heard.
BUT it’s not meant to make you feel good, instead it paints a picture of the author’s very unique perspective.
However, it’s brilliantly told, beautifully written and it cuts right to the core.This is a story of two young girls, Poornima and Stavitha, living in an impoverished village in India.
This story and these names will forever be engraved in my mind, but I’m okay with that because it’s the very least I can do.GIRLS BURN BRIGHTER has vivid descriptions with great character development, and it reads at a quick pace.
Girls Burn Brighter tells the story of Poornima and Savitha who had the misfortune of being born poor and female in Indravalli, India.
If you have read Sing, Unburied, Sing by Jesmyn Ward, you will recognize the experience.On it’s face, Girls Burn Brighter is a story about the strength and beauty of female friendship.
It is a story about a world that wants to swallow you piece by piece and what you must sacrifice in order to survive.Girls Burn Brighter would be an amazing choice for a book club, especially a feminist book club.
Shobha Rao’s words invaded my brain in this beautifully written story about friendship and love, and man’s inhumanity.Poornima and Savitha are teenagers who meet in their native India.
After their separation, Poormina and Savitha begin to lose their “light.” Attempting to cope with their unending trauma, the young women cling to the memories of each.
Recalling a time when they were together, Poormina thinks “How foolish you were, how stupid you are…to find herself passed like a beedie between the hands of men.”This book comes with a serious TRIGGER WARNING to readers who have experienced sexual and/or domestic violence or similar trauma.
In this dark, devastating, and heart-wrenching novel, alternating between two village girls Poornima & Savitha, two main characters of the novel in India, forges an unexpected friendship.
There is lot happening in this novel, slow and suspenseful, these two girls don’t give up on the hope that burns within them and hope that they’ll find each one day.
But I am so grateful for this reading experience and to be living in America.
This novel isn’t going to be everyone, especially the faint-hearted, but I hope that you’ll give a chance to hear the voices from girls that otherwise might not have if it wasn’t written for them.
This is a fictional story of two young women living in a small village in India, then in the US, who form a powerful friendship.
Poornima is 16 when she meets Savitha who comes to work for Poornima’s father, sewing saris, after Poornima’s mother has recently died.
I only know for certain, it was not an easy book to read, and it became increasingly difficult to get through it, having to face unrelenting oppression and cruelty shown to not one, but two women, over the entire course of this book.
I have no doubt about the oppression of women under the conditions these characters suffered, and books like this bear witness to it in the hope for change.
I expected something totally different of this book, but I don't like to give a book a low rating just because it didn't meet my own expectations, especially when the book is objectively well-written.That's the second thing I want to talk about: the prose.
The prose and some of the narrative choices give this book a kind of mythic quality; indeed, there are so many coincidences occurring it seems one would have to suspend disbelief to be able to enjoy this book.At its heart, it is a story of friendship between two women, Savitha and Poornima.
The cover just screams read me and remain forever changed.
Here I am, an American woman, reading about how women from other countries get treated so terribly.
In Girls Burn Brighter, we follow the lives of two very special girls who turn into women before they're ready.
We follow Poornima and Savitha on a separate journeys that are full of blood, sweat, and tears.
This was a powerful read that features women we need to look up to in order to fight back.
Last, I want to tell you the message that has stayed with me ever since I let go of the last page.
I received a free copy of Girls Burn Brighter by Shobha Rao in a Goodreads give away in exchange for an honest review.
In the book, Girls Burn Brighter, the reader is transported to India where two young, poor girls Poornima and Savitha cross paths and form a bond that is tested but becomes stronger as the years continued.
Savitha saw life differently from Poornima.
Savitha was an independent minded girl and decided she had choices.
Shortly after, Poornima was married off.
Poornima, determined to find Savitha traveled into India's underworld and eventually to Seattle.This was a very moving book.
...all the beacons of the world, standing all in a row, couldn't save her' - Savitha, Girls Burn Brighter Obliterated.
My heart and my mind needed those points of pause, as I read and digested the lives of these two girls that I immediately fell in love with.
We once played in the dirt under the shade of a tree.' -Savitha, Girls Burn Brighter     I feel almost guilty suggesting you read this book knowing what you will be put through.
We all needed to talk about this book and how it made us feel.
This is a book that will tear your heart to pieces and leave you picking them up for days after.
This is not a feel-good book, although there are still moments of hope even in the darkest of times.I think books like this are important reads.
I have called myself a survivor but I have not known the kind of life these girls had.
I have not experienced the violence, pain and heartache that these girls endured.
What is important to remember, is that these girls still had hope.
There is always hope.
We should never ever give up.This book releases Tuesday, March 6th.
The fact that I finished this book four days ago and forgot to update it until now says something about how memorable I found the reading experience. There are really strong aspects to this story, but the characters and themes fall a bit flat (despite my loving the premise), and after the midway point everything gets weaker until things finally putter to a close. But I still think Rao is a writer to keep an eye on. Review for another outlet coming soon.
Rao's writing is, as usually, simply gorgeous.
As we watch them face unrelenting horrors, their strength becomes your own.I did NOT know what this book was about (other than two girls who develop a friendship and are then separated), so the content was very much upsetting.
When Rao starts to write explicitly about the "fire" behind the girls eyes, the writing felt just shy of corny.
Rao's prose, in general, is so strong that this is still a VERY minor criticism from me, but I do think it's worth noting.I expect that some people will find the ending less than satisfying because things aren't neatly tied up with a bow, but I loved it.
This was heart-wrenching and powerful and depressing. Set in India and America it follows two friends separated by horrendous acts of violence and depravity and the lengths they will go to to be reunited. I definitely reached the point where I couldn’t handle anything else happening to them only to have a lot more happen to them. I felt the same way when reading Beauty is a Wound. This is an electrifying debut novel though and definitely worth reading.
There was an obvious thoughtfulness in the way Shobha handled the issues that befell many of her characters in An Unrestored Woman - issues that were present for no other reason than because they are women.
But as I anticipated, Shobha handles their trials with a thoughtfulness that makes you wish you could reach into the story and save the characters yourself.
The expected complicity from men in cultures that allow women and girls to be devalued is present in this novel.
However, the irony is that once some girls become women they have the same expectations of the girls that come behind them.
Poornima and Savitha live in a village in India.
Both are poor, with the responsibility of caring for their families.
Her family weaves fabric for sari's, and when Savitha is hired to help work a look, she and Poornima develop a close bond of friendship.
But when an act of violence causes Savitha to leave the village, Poornima is bereft at the loss of her friend.
Never forgetting her friendship with Savitha, Poornima travels far and wide with the hope of reuniting.A hauntingly beautiful novel of the bond of friendship and the ability to find inner strength in even the most horrifying situations.
Together, these girls burn brighter.I remember reading a passage in the beginning of the book when Poornima and Savitha were walking home and some guys were bothering them.
It's violent, terrifying, it's bloody and uncomfortable.All these tragic, brutal things kept happening to these girls whom never cross paths again after that faithful night when Savitha leaves and I remained hopeful for a reunion, for an evidence that they still burn the brightest.I am not trying to neglect the terrible things that happen to girls in India.
The tragic events were too extreme for me and too often which made it a difficult read.Girls Burn Brighter is a good debut and a lot of readers will enjoy it, but I was hoping for something different.
Beautifully rendered in mellifluous prose, Girls Burn Brighter is the story of the friendship between two girls strong enough to hold them together over seas, continents and years of hardships. The writing is gorgeous and flows so that you never feel it is work to read but there are at least 2 instances of atrocities that shocked me.....and I consider myself unshockable. The novel would have been just as good without them.
A story about two girls growing up in Indravalli, India, Rao addresses a multiplicity of issues about gender power and powerlessness and about the human capacity for survival, friendship, and regeneration.
A story first of all about the friendship between two girls, Poornima and Savitha; Rao invokes the lives of two girls who have no power at all over the direction in which their lives must go.
Poornima has assumed care of her siblings, so Poornima’s father hires Savitha.
In a world where the opinions of men matter most, Savitha’s father tells Savitha of his love for her as his daughter.
This book is about a deep and defining connection between two women.
It is easier to do here than in some of those other books because the world Poornima and Savitha live in is such a difficult one, because their only love and solace is in each other.
As readers we cling to Poornima and Savitha's connection because it is literally the only thing we have to cling to as we watch unspeakable horrors visited upon them.
But it's troubling nonetheless as the book makes it clear that their struggles, as horrific as they are, are also horrifyingly commonplace and that the rest of these women do not have a soulmate to save them.
