https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/483103.The_Seven_Dials_Mystery
A manor murder, a secret society, a slummy club in the East End, and international espionage that make it seem artificially complicated, but it was enjoyable enough, with a few chuckles and a sweet little romantic angle to neatly round it out.
Lord Caterham owns the manor, and his daughter, Lady Eileen Brent, "known to her friends and society in general as "Bundle," becomes involved when she realizes she knows several of the people involved.
Not long after, she joins forces with one of the men in the house party who works for the government, and then the sister of the murdered lad.
Jimmy Thesiger
Not as intriguing as I thought it would be, but the surprising ending almost makes up for how uninteresting all the rest was.
Агата Кристи до момента не ме е разочаровала и тази книга не прави изключение. Въпреки че романът не ми се стори на нивото на останалите нейни, които съм чела, беше достатъчно непредсказуем, увлекателен, заплетен и напрегнат, за да ме държи на тръни с всяка една своя страница.
I've decided that you cannot go wrong with Agatha Christie.
This was a test in who-dun-it skills which I need to master.
I got it all wrong.
The story is wrapped up in tons of funny, aristocratic dialogue.
And then all of a sudden Christie adds a couple of sentences like this: There is no need to describe in detail the conversation of the next ten minutes.
It consisted mostly of repetitions.Classic!
It's funny because before you get to this sentence there seems to be ten minutes of a gushy love scene full of repetitions.On the whole, a good historic/espionage/who-dun-it.
I enjoyed this Agatha Christie mystery very much.
It had quite a different feel to it from the Miss Marple and Poirot mysteries.
Dare I say, it was almost an adult Nancy Drew (ish) style mystery; mainly due to the fact that the protagonists were young people, rather than the more mature sleuths that Christie peopled her stories with.
What it the Seven Dials group?
I thought it was a pretty standard thriller/ mystery, but in the last section, there were many twists and turns and any guesses I had about the culprit and the mysterious group were turned on their heads.
Excellent story.
Believe me I went what the what at the ending and had to go back and re-read after all is revealed."The Seven Dials Mystery" starts off with house guests staying at Chimneys.
However, when Bundle comes across another man who was staying at Chimneys who was shot to death, she and Jimmy team up to figure out what connection there is between these deaths and a place called Seven Dials.
Jimmy Thesinger seems happy to play a fool (not an ass) and realizes that things are pretty deep when Bundle brings him the connections between two deaths and Chimneys.
جميع روايات أجاثا كريستي تتميز بالحبكة الشديدةلدرجة أنه من الصعب عليك أن تحل اللغز في النهاية هذه ال
The Seven Dials Mystery is a fast paced and a very enjoyable book. Some of the characters are from another Christie novel, The Secret of Chimneys. As a huge fan of the queen of crime and whodunits, I had a very nice time reading this book and I was satisfied with the ending which was surprising and full of twists. Agatha Christie always gives the best mystery and it’s never disappointing!
We have the dead man's sister, a young man working at the Foreign Office, our heroine, Eileen Brent aka Bundle, a Police Superintendent, and a young man working in politics, all more or less banding together to solve the mystery.This book is written in a very light vein and there is plenty of humour in the Wodehouse style.
The plot is a little far-fetched and I really resented that Bundle was set up as a heroine by the author but then made a fool of at the end by others.

Expect no Hercule Poirot, no Miss Jane Marple, no Tommy nor Tuppence Beresford; however, Superintendent Battle does just fine in The Seven Dials.
The mountainous but subtly clever policeman manages to solve two murders and break an international ring of crooks in a cozy that will engage you to the very last page.The caper begins with the death of a guest at — this is Dame Agatha Christie, after all — a house party.
Superintendent Battle may not be a household name like Poirot and Miss Marple, but, as I said, he does all right in The Seven Dials.
An absolutely wonderful gift from Tori.I had no idea Agatha Christie was so absorbing. This book was on par with Georgette Heyer, P.G. Wodehouse, Dorothy Sayers, Robert Benchley...even Helene Hanff! I suppose it shouldn't surprise me but that ending completely blew me away! Absolutely worth reading.Some of the names are a little odd and dated...Socks and Codders and Bundle...but I like the characters and the writing. I like how it feels old fashion and intelligent yet entirely readable. And that end! Excuse me while I interrupt myself to go re-read this novel with newly opened eyes...
I remembered the beginning of this story quite vivdly; the alarum clocks, 'Subtle' Socks and the 'bright young things' indulging in jolly japes at a country house.But I had managed to utterly forget any hint as to how the mystery was resolved and it came as a complete surprise.I thoughly enjoyed this Christie - my favourite so far.
A minor Christie work. Gets more interesting toward the end. Life among the upper classes gets a bit tiresome. Some of the main characters are named Bundle, Pongo, and Socks. It's as if the murder has been perpetrated and is being investigated by puppies.
Another fun to read Christie murder mystery. I never read several, but this is the first time I’ve met Inspector Battle from Scotland Yard. A thrilling who-dun-it. Once again she fooled me and I didn’t figure out the killer...Christie all, me zero. One day I will catch the killer before she reveals him.
The Seven Dials Mystery marked a return to form for Agatha Christie.
Her friends are equally well-drawn, and Battle is an enjoyable detective even if less famous than Poirot or Miss Marple today.Much as I love Bundle, the best thing about Seven Dials is that it corrects the worst error of The Big Four.
With Seven Dials, in complete contrast, the reader is given credit for intelligence once more--if a secret society sounds like something from a book, it's because it's a deliberate front; there are no master criminals or secret weapons.
It was an enjoyable cozy mystery, though I dont consider it one of the best Agatha Christies I've read.
The period of the story is between the first and second world wars, and this has influenced the story which is splattered with exotic spies and talks about Germans and Russians.
What started as a party of young adults in the Chimneys, an aristocratic home somewhere in the English villageside, soon turns into a murder mystery, with one of the guests lying dead in his room and seven clocks arranged along the mantlepiece.
Nearly gave up on this one several times. It turns out I should have.
It was a bore and the detective work that happens is amateurish and funny, to say the least. Give it a miss :)Certain elements, of course, were ok. So, rating: 2.5 stars.
“You shouldn’t shoot people”, said Lord Caterham in a tone of mild remonstrance.
“You shouldn’t really.
I daresay some of them richly deserve it- but all the same it will lead to trouble.” Maybe it was the plot, maybe it was my reading slump, but I wasn’t really invested in the story.
After all, Christie criticizes the stuck-up English society even more, by creating quirky and lovable, yet laughable characters, such as Lord Caterham, Lady Coote and MacDonald, the gardener.Be as it may, I have strong suspicions that Lord Caterham is my spirit animal.“It's not death,” said Bundle.
“It's marriage.”“Very nearly as bad,” said Lord Caterham.
In this story, we're taken back to the Chimney's estate and we meet up with a cast of characters, some of which we were introduced to in The Secret of Chimneys.
Bundle (Lady Eileen) is one of the characters that takes centre stage.
And what a great character!
She adds so much wit and sparkle to the story.
Well, in the end anyway.
Speaking of which, I was kept guessing right to the end.
I liked the story wrap-up, but found it a bit far-fetched.
The Seven Dials Mystery is a very good story.
It's full of good little things, and two great things.
The two great things are the wrongful depiction of the Seven Dials - wrongful being the key word - and the depiction of the main villain.
I kept wondering what was the purpose of Lady Cootes' scenes and how Miss Wade would end up in the story.
The Seven Dials is a fun book, and the fact that it's not layered does not diminish its enjoyment.
مالذي دعاني لشرائها؟ لا اعرف ولكن اعتقد بانه نوع من الحنين .. هناك العديد من الطبعات لقصص أجاثا تجعلني دائماً اتسائل عن طبيعة حقوق الملكية الفكرية هل هي مشاع وهل هي ترجمة واحدة ام تراجم مختلفة!!تعجبني القصص الكلاسيكية هناك قاتل ويتم البحث عنه، الا ان اكثر ما يزعج هو ان لكل شخص اربع اسماء عليك حفظها جميعها فالسيدة فكتوريا بيلاشوفا على سبيل المثال هي فيكا وهي فكتوريا وهي الانسة بيلاشوفا و..و..و ما يجعل المصاب بالزهايمر القرائي يعاني الرواية لطيفة وكلاسيكية
This was the first Agatha Christie book I read - and what a good choice! It's been ages since I've read it, but I'm still marveling at the plot! When trying to figure out "who-dunnit" I did consider the true culprit, but dismissed it instantly - oops! Not as light-hearted and fun as the Tommy and Tuppence series, but a wonderful mystery and a credit to Christie's writing abilities.
Başlarda sıksada sonunda şaşırttı. Polisiye kitaplardan her zaman uzak duran biri olarak, bana birazda olsa sempati kazandırdı bu alanda. Artık benzer senaryolar kendini tekrara başladığından, ancak 4 yıldız verebiliyorum.
I didn't think I'd ever be able to say this about one of Agatha Christie's books, but I didn't really care for this one that much so I'm just going to leave it at that.
Pretty good mystery. I like the nickname “Bundle”.
Rating: 4.5/5(I listened to an audio version, so please excuse any spelling errors for names)***Minor spoilers***First, Gerry Wade was found dead at Chimneys, believed to have overdosed on a sleeping draught.
Believing that something having to do with Seven Dials was the cause of death, Bundle seeks help from Jimmy Thesiger, friend to both the deceased and Gerry Wade.
It was insane.One of the things I noticed in the last two books I read was that Christie's books tend to be mostly just okay until you hit the big reveal at the end.
I'd definitely recommend this book to you, and especially the audiobook because I think it helps with the Christie experience.
Başmüfettiş Battle benim sevdiğim bir karakter, zaten Agatha'nın sevmediğim pek bir karakteri yok ya neyse. Bu kitap da bence iyiydi, olaylar yavaş aksa da gerçekten güzel bitti. Ya katil şu çıksa ne garip olur dediğim kişi katil çıktı bu arada, biraz kendimi kutlamalıyım heralde. Kadının yazacağı her şeyi tahmin edemiyorum ama nedense kafasında kim üzerine kurguladığını daha sık yakalar oldum. Hala okunacak romanları var neyse ki, sonra da başa dönüp her birini tekrar okumalı aslında.
