https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87275.The_Tin_Flute
There were moments when I felt like taking all of my money from my wallet, insert the same inside the book's pages and hope that this poor family can take the cash and spend them for their needs.There are several scenes here that will strike you as so true, but I have a favorite because it reminds me of my young brother and the toy our mother couldn't buy for him.The mother, Rose-Anna, decides to leave the house one day to look for a new house they can rent as they are about to be evicted from their present dwelling.
Second-hand Happiness), The Tin Flute is the vivid story of the working poor in Quebec during World War II.
As the Afterword (Philip Stratford) mentions, Florentine was Gabrielle Roy's first and foremost character for the story, but Florentine's mother Rose-Anna pushed her way into the story and was there to stay.
Lucky for us, the readers, as Rose-Anna is truly the heart and soul of the entire story.
The situations, though perhaps dated at times, are not too far removed from the ones imagined by most contemporary readers.Wonderful story, deserving of its place on the 1,001 Books to Read Before You Die list.
The novel takes place right at the end of the depression and the beginning of WWII.
But once you presume to bring it out in the daylight, it becomes terrifying, you see it at last in all its squalor and you shrink from exposing it to the sun.I might have wanted more from the prose, and I was tempted to blame the translator.
I might have wanted a bit more in terms of characterization, but those became clearer as I got deeper into the novel.
I wanted to like it more, but it's just a strong 3-stars for me.
Gabrielle Roy has marvelous powers of description that make winter wind, snow, cold and choking city smoke descend and engulf the reader as well as her fictional characters. Just as invasive are her powers of discernment which take the reader right inside the thoughts and desperation of a family caught inside the slums of Montreal during the depression that preceded world war two. This is a Canadian classic, one of the finest books ever written. However, don't expect to lift your head from its last page feeling any more optimistic about life than you did before.
This book is an important fictionalized version of herstory that sadly reflects many of the same issues we have in society today.
I encountered one distant resemblance to the Lacasses of “The Tin Flute”, the most destitute family about whom I've read.
She wouldn't ask her Mother or brothers for help?The other reason for moderately grading an admirable, complex literary coup is that we never like the eldest daughter, Florentine.
Gabrielle gives voice to everyone's thoughts, even the awful Jean Lévesque, whom Florentine asininely wanted to impress because he wasn't a lover's type.
We want Florentine to wizen up, whom we admire as her family's sole breadwinner!
His Mother saw him with colouring books, blocks, and a tin flute he wanted; thinly-matched English title of “Bonheur D'Occasion”.
Oh, so readable, so heartbreaking, so thought provoking.What is the consequences of destitution on a family?
How does it affect one's psyche?
The author of this book shows the devastating affects of poverty on one family., but the author does it in a loving way.
I read this book through many tears.Another theme is war.
Why do the poor fight?
It can't for loyalty to the country who has crushed their dreams in the past.
Who benefits from war?
The book was originally written in French, but my translation is so good, that I found it hard to believe it wasn't written in English.
I should rather pull a toe off than read this book again. It's no more than a catalogue of misery without redemption, and while it may be realistic, it's nothing I need to be told about in careful detail. I had feared that this was an artifact of translation, but apparently it can move people the same way in the original language; I finish with the perfect summation from this review:Livre obligatoire à l'école. C'est supposément un classique mais j'ai trouvé ça atrocement plate.
Gabrielle Roy réussit à bien rendre la misère de l'époque. Saint-Henri, la guerre, la dépression, la pauvreté sont bien dépeints. Le roman aurait été excellent, si ce n'eut été des personnages, qui ne sont pas aimables du tout. Florentine est bête comme tout, Jean est inintéressant et Emmanuel est ridicule. Rose-Anna est probablement le personnage le plus intéressant, mais elle n'a qu'une seule dimension: celle de la pauvre femme encrassée dans la misère.
Haha this book took me two months to read! Why? Because it’s terrible!!!
The depiction of the poor was very heart wrenching and combined with some of the sentimental family/love stuff and the french flavour of Montreal, makes this book feel like a Canadian version of Les Miserables (my favourite book!).
I did like Emmanuel a lot and also Rose-Anna and Azarius quite a bit.
Rose-Anna is such a tragic figure (a very poor mother of 12 children with a husband who won't work) and I found her to be my biggest connection throughout the story.
Les Miserables definitely had long sections of melancholic emotions and overdone character development, but things in that book were constantly moving forward.
Gritty tale of poverty and squalor in 1940's Montreal.Roy gives us a poignant look at the pain and humility of the Lacasse family, struggling and impoverished.
Mother Rose-Anne holds the family together and we watch as she, resigned and pregnant with her 12th, trudges through the wintry streets of Montreal looking for decent shelter before the spring evictions begin.She is the inspiration through-out, and we are drawn to her and, "...the docility of the humble..."Don't look for a feel-good ending, the last paragraph reads, "Low in the sky, dark clouds heralded the storm."
A simple story, but complex layers of emotion and enough depth to make it an engrossing read.
I'm very surprised that I've neverheard of this book before; it really should be on all of our high school English reading lists.
they’d recognized each other the night of the storm.
But the storm and cold would come to an end.
And although he had come into her life like a destroying gust of wind, perhaps when the first storms were past it would turn out that he had come to help her see more clearly all the ugliness and poverty around her.” [p.
A long, sometimes dragging, but realistic and insightful portrait of life in working-class Saint-Henri (Montreal) in the 1940s.
Read this book in the original Canadian French, not my native language, so it was enriching in terms of learning expressions, slang, etc., and also for deeper historical and cultural understanding.
At times the book feels interminable - there's not much of a plot and the big 'reveal' in the penultimate chapter was anti-climactic as I totally saw that coming.
There's also significant socio-political discussion (through her characters).
I found the main character of Florentine to be very antipathique but oh well.
Overall, a well-written, thoughtful and sad book.
Quelle histoire triste, mais elle devait être ainsi pour honnêtement capturer et décrire la réalité de tant de personnes et de familles pauvres au Québec au début de la deuxième guerre mondiale. Une oeuvre très bien écrite, l'auteure reste fidèle à son but en n'inventant aucune joie soudaine et purement litéraire, plutôt que réaliste, dans la vie de tous les jours des ses personnages. Cette histoire laisse le lecteur complètement déprimé du début à la fin, mais pourtant démontre que l'espoir de l'esprit humain ne cesse de survivre quelle que soit la circonstance.
A new favourite author. This story set during WWII describes the conditions and people living in the working class area of Montreal. Roy speaks from the heart and for the people. As the Maclean review states on the back of the edition shown; '(Roy's) gift of portraying warmth without sentimentality, joy without delusion' is rarely matched.Being from a working class family myself, this book spoke to me of the struggles, dreams and courage of such people wherever in the World they may be.
I have a feeling this isn't the best translation of the book -- some passages, especially dialogue, sounded a bit awkward, perhaps too literally rendered. That said, Roy's characters are some of the most real and convincing I've read in a long time, which I think is especially rare in a social realist novel. A heart-breaking book. Obviously why it's a Canadian classic.
J'ai lu ce livre alors que j'étais très jeune et que je voulais tout apprendre du monde des adultes. Ce que j'y ai appris n'était pas très beau mais l'écriture de Gabrielle Roy, quelle fluidité. Un des livres marquants de ma vie, sans aucun doute.
oh my god ! I read this for my school and it was soooooooo long !
It's like reading Zola's Germinal ... but in a 20th century and North American style.
Rose Anne feels like the only character with depth. But the story paints a beautiful picture of Quebec.
Another book for looking at Canadian history through a literary lens.
(I may have been confusing it with The Tin Drum, by Gunter Grass.) The military does play a part, in that several of the young men – and one older one – enlist, but it’s really a backdrop to a story of poverty and struggle in the slums of Montreal.Which makes it sound depressing.
Her husband, Azarius, is weak and a dreamer; in the end he recovers his self-worth by enlisting, the only way he can see to finally provide his wife with a reasonable income.I’ve said the war is a backdrop to the story, and it is, but Roy also explores the motives behind all those young men leaping into uniform to sacrifice themselves for their country.
I had enjoyed Rue Deschambault by Gabrielle Roy seven years ago and I was looking forward to reading her most famous work: Bonheur d’occasion.
The novel takes place in the neighbourhood of Saint-Henri in Montréal in the 1940s at the end of the Great Depression and beginning of World War Two. Roy follows the lives of a struggling working-class family and their neighbours.
Roy did a fantastic job at describing this world of misery while giving life to complex characters that are neither heroes nor losers.
Bonheur d’occasion is a great Canadian classic that should not be missed.
Жан...быть может, он ворвался в ее жизнь только для того, чтобы она, едва уляжется первый порыв, увидела всё убожество и всю нищету, которые её окружают"  Да, ему действительно вдруг стало жаль её.
Показала жизнь отца, который был в душе уничтожен тем, что не может обеспечить семью так, как ему это виделось в его мыслях.
К этому моменту мне стали полностью противны родители Флорентины: (view spoiler)[ отец, который витает в облаках, что сможет вмиг озолотиться, и не хочет просто работать, и мать, которая несмотря на трудности, просто рожает и рожает...
К этому моменту мне уже было всё-равно почему каждый отдельный мужчина Квебека решил пойти в армию.Книга вызвала эмоции, она достигла цели.
In writing about the slums of Montreal and the desperate struggles of one poverty-ridden hard-luck family in the early years of WWII, Roy was writing about a time and a place she knew well, and created what was to become a classic of Canadian literature.
Perhaps one of the more moving scenes in the book takes place in the children's hospital, where little Daniel has finally gotten his flute, and is then given an orange by his sister.
THE TIN FLUTE is quite simply a beautifully written novel and deserves its permanent place in the canon of great Canadian literature.
what kind of ending is that
This book, whose English translation bears the title ‘The Tin Flute’ was published by Roy in 1945, five years before Cookson’s first book.
Cookson’s novels were well loved and this novel by Roy would also find favor with Cookson enthusiasts.Here we have desperately poor working class people living in a rundown section of a Montreal industrial area in the late 30s, early 40s.
Three other characters are woven into the plot: the couple’s naïve teenage daughter, Florentine, who feels ashamed of her poverty-stricken family; her socially inept, callous admirer, Jean (.i.e. French for ‘John’); and Emmanuel, a likable, friendly young man who adores Florentine but lacks self-belief when comparing himself to Jean.
Poor Florentine repeats her mother's mistake in choosing the wrong man when she becomes infatuated with the handsome rogue Jean who (view spoiler)[deflowers her and then pawns her off on his friend Emmanuel who foolishly falls in love with her.
Emmanuel, at least, is from a better off family and will provide from her, so Florentine has a chance at escaping poverty.
(view spoiler)[Azarius Lacasse decides to enlist in the army, and with any luck he will be killed, thus freeing his family from his disastrous influence.
And ridicule I did ;) I you ever get the feeling for some dramatic clean soap this is it .This is the first time I've given a book three stars after a ridicule read 😂 So on to the book ;The tin flute tells the tragically heart wrenching ( tragically pitiful and hilarious ) story of Florentine a French Canadian girl who waitresses during world war two .
She says she hates the way men throw themselves at her but yet in the middle of complaining about men asking her on dates in pops Jean .
