https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5720.Rainbow_Six
Tommy Clancy is an impressive story-teller and I really like his work....BUT he’s also a major word glutton and very promiscuous with regards to the sheer volume of prose he pours into each tale.
John Clark (aka Super Spook Extraordinaire) has been tapped by his buddy, President Jack Ryan, to head up a new top secret, multi-national, counter-terrorist group called Rainbow to deal with post cold war threats to the good people of Earth.
That page bloat cost the book a star from me.However, despite the plot plod, the story is still wonderfully done and Clancy has a real gift for complex, well-thought out scenarios and both the good and bad guys do some very interesting things.
Ex-Navy SEAL and super-duper CIA legend John Clark, still hurting under his warrior's iron-hard facade from the brutal and plot-driving death of every woman he has ever known in his entire life, is put in charge of a top-secret NATO counter-terrorist team.
Clancy cranks up the hilarity by allowing this team to launch cross-border operations with the eager blessing of every government involved...
All in all, this book is so thunderously dull, its moral questions so elementary, its politics so spavined, its protagonists such jut-jawed spelunkers up their own buttholes, I have to applaud the author's divine sense of irony and...
Every time Clancy comes back to a character, he gives us the same details about him.
He was as good with a handgun as any of the other men." (x4!) This tremendous repetition isn't limited to characters, either.
It is as if he designed the book to be skimmed: "Don't worry if you miss anything, you'll have four or five more shots at it." Rainbow Six needed an editor.Then there is the dialogue.
There are lots of true believers out there, and it would have been fairly easy to craft some authentic seeming terrorists, but he couldn't be bothered.
Y los personajes planos y clichés a mas no poder.Machismo : las mujeres en la novela son solo esposas (nada de miembros del grupo antiterrorista, claro) y con los roles tópicos a las cuales hay que cuidar, y proteger.
Sí contra Trump, pero eso creo que cualquier persona sensata).Amor por las armas : el autor –y sus personajes- casi se corren de gusto cada vez que hablan de los modelos de armas.
Extrajudicial murder for fun and profit. I've been a longtime fan of Tom Clancy, even though he never met an adjective or adverb that he didn't like. Each of his books is exactly 1/3 too long. In some respects this is the best written book of the Clancy canon. On the other hand, the resolution of this story turned my stomach. The resolution of the plot left a tricky legal problem to deal with. Rather then solve the issue, Clancy uses his characters to murder everyone involved. This one has put me off Clancy for good. Good riddance.
Rainbow six was no let down; The story features John Clark, an ex-Navy SEAL, leading a multinational group of counter terrorist experts from different countries.
Later, they learn that one Russian agent was responsible for these attacks.
My favorite quote is "My name's Clark and I suppose I'm the boss here." This quote gives of a supposed feeling of control that a group like Rainbow has over things.
The book is written in third person omniscient point of view.
I enjoyed this book because of it's pure action and suspense.
Rainbow Six has one of the most amazing plots I've ever seen in a book.
Tom Clancy bends the seemly irrelevant beginning all the way around to ultimate climax of the story.
Now, Rainbow Six isn't a page turner all the way through, but there are some very suspensful chapters.If you keep with it for about a hundred pages, you won't be able to put down.
Clancy is an amazing writer, and with all his military access, he was able to make the book really authentic.
Besides that, Rainbow Six was a wonderful and exciting story that kept me reading until the end.
The weak stomached should probably refrain from picking up this book due to the gruesome descriptions and depictions the acclaimed author and ex-NAVY SEAL gives during the book.
Basically the book is about a secret special forces organization called "Rainbow" due to their objective which is protecting countries on an international scale, from everything; bank robbers to full blown terrorists.
The "Six" part of the title comes from the organizations leader, whose codename is "Six." However, the story is definitely not just based around blood and gore, it was a deep underlying conspiracy mystery that entangles, European terrorists and even corrupt biochemical lab physicians.
Rainbow Six has a different connotation now. Damn, Clancy wrote thick novels, better watch out Sideshow Bob, haha.
Soon after its establishment a bank in Switzerland is robbed and they are sent in to handle the situation.
Soon after, german terrorists obtain fake codes for the international trading markets.
Rainbow sends out disguised shooters and they handle the situation.
The book goes through a number of terrorist encounters and describes how rainbow and its two teams handle them.
After the hideout of the eco-terrorists is discovered rainbow is sent to it and kills them with a few survivors left naked to die and "reconnect with nature." This book was a wild thriller and anyone looking for action and military strategy should read it.
One of my favorite Clancy novels, right behind Without Remorse.
John Clark faces challenges he never faced before, commanding troops without taking part of the operations.
This fast paced, roller coaster ride of excitement takes us into the life of Special Operators and their struggle to save lives of innocent people, and to end the lives of those who threaten them.
From a bank robbery, to a home invasion, to terrorist taking children hostage in a Spanish Theme Park, to and attack on Rainbow’s own people, Clark is in charge, and Chavez is charged and ready to kill.
Goodness Clancy gets so bogged down in details. 5 or 6 long pages without dialogue just bores me to death. It got to where I skimmed a ton of the pages and didn't miss a thing. Still always knew what was going on. The action scenes are splendid and worth reading. Just speed read half the book and its worthwhile.
This story would be better with editing. Too many unnecessary written words had me at times falling asleep and dulled some of this novel. 5 of 10 stars
DNF. Just wasn't my thing.
After not having read it in years, Rainbow Six is a perfect example of Clancy's strengths and flaws.
His strengths reside in his thorough technical research and plotting, while his flaws reside in character development, dialogue, and forgetting that he has created his own universe and creating inconsistencies between the Clancyverse and the real world.It's also an interesting looking glass into what was thought to be the threats on the horizon.
Clancy seemed to put jihadists on the backburner and thought Marxist elements and environmental extremists would be much more active.There's also the thing about how he claims special ops don't jump out of planes and prefer helicopters.
That wouldn't normally affect my enjoyment of a novel, but Clancy's reputation is built (in part) on the detail level of his books, so the errors I could recognize (specifically relating to the internet) are bothersome.The finish of the story is a little disappointing.
After wading through nearly 900 pages, I would have appreciated a bigger payoff.All in all, a nice action story, and a good bit of escapism, but it's too long, has too many dull spots, and lacks the big finish it needs to be really satisfying.
This doesn't so much illustrate the ambiguity of military violence though, since all the characters seem to be unable to reflect on their actions and instead mouth idiot platitudes about serving God and country.The plot, if you care, revolves around a bunch of eco-terrorists that plan to wipe out the world with the ebola virus, to return to a state of nature.
This is the second novel in a row by Clancy where characters try to spread the ebola virus to an unsuspecting population.
I guess the reason it gets two stars instead of one is that the hostage situations that occur in the first half of the book do generate some tension.
This is my favourite of the Clancy books that feature the recurring characters, in this case it's John Clark and Ding!!!
It was also my first Clancy book, and after reading this was hooked!
The buildups to the meticulously planned counter-terrorist action scenes were some of the best I've read.
Clancy runs a number of seemingly unrelated stories in this book, which come together throughout the book.Full of everything that makes a Clancy book genius, action, character development, military knowledge, tactics, politics, world takeovers, being on the brink of World War Three and chilling plots - the situations in his books do tend to occur at some point not long after his book comes out!
Clancy's later books are...entirely predictable.
I mean, it's not like the ending of "Hunt for Red October" came as a mind-blowing surprise or anything, but in "Rainbow Six" and "The Bear and the Dragon", especially, it seems that he relies on the repetition of phrases/ideas in order to get a high page count.The constant political proselytizing also got old.
Yes, we understand: people who care about the environment are deluded murdering psychopaths; drilling for oil is Alaska is the most patriotic and awesome thing ever; the military is full of people who have PhD's from elite universities.
Give it a rest.
If you've made it this far into the "Jack Ryan Universe" you won't be disappointed!
I’ve never felt the need to read any military-themed action adventures before - I’m not even interested in shooting games or things like that - but my father and brother both read Tom Clancy, and they aren’t gun fanatics or bodybuilders (which I’d always stereotyped as Clancy’s main demographic for some reason - maybe because of the videogame); and I recently found out one of my coworkers (who also isn’t into shooting things or pumping iron) also reads a lot of Clancy, so I decided I should stop being presumptuous and give him a try.While there is some of that overly-macho, testosterone-filled “bro” talk, that personality trait of the Rainbow Six members was actually really toned down.
Tom Clancy is a top secret FBI agent who is offered to become the Top Dog for a brand new operation called Rainbow Six. R6 for short is a multinational anti terrorism group who all have a very particular set of skills.
Follow John Clark and his best friend Ding Chavez lead their teams through Bank Robberies, Hostage situations, and Bomb defusals in the most intense book i have ever read.
I recommend this book to anyone who has played any of the Tom Clancy Video games or is interested into Government special operations or anything along those lines.
Can John Clark and his team beat eliminate the terrorist group?
Another great story featuring John Clark and Domingo Chavez.
This the last Tom Clancy book I will ever try and read. I'm afriad that as of today i have Black Balled the author and will be removing all his books from my collection.
Tom Clany tiene ideas interesantes, ideas que pueden adaptarse a buenas peliculas, como ya han hecho muchas veces, pero lamentablemente sus ideas no combinan con su estilo de escritura (esto es MI opinión personal, para gustos los colores) el libro fue ABURRIDO, LENTO y DENSO, con descripciones redundantes y absolutamente innecesarias; personajes BLANDOS que no se destacaban en NADA que no fuera su nacionalidad, cada uno de los miembros del comando era una copia de Rambo y Arnold Schwarzenegger en sus años de gloria: son absolutamente perfectos en todo, nunca fallan un tiro, saben utilizar todas las variedades de armas habidas y por haber sin apenas practicar, están en la mas perfecta condición física...en fin, no hay nada que el comando Rainbow no pueda hacer, literalmente!!
Although I said it would happen in China, not where it did in the book.I think there was potential for the author, god rest his soul, to have explored the actual shape of a double rainbow in the book with the plot, metaphorically speaking of course, or even in the form of writing style.
Anyone else similarly perceive this shape?On a personal level, I think its high time the rainbow was liberated from the symbol of the LGTB community.
I bought a winter hat one time that was rainbow colored, and sure, it was bright, but I liked the style, especially because it fit my big head, which can be rare.
I did enjoy the fantastic end to the story and hope that, true to Clancy style, Dmitry Popov will appear in another book in the near furture!And for the second time, Clancy has focused the book on John Kelly (otherwise known as Clark).
I hope I am wrong...Is Clancy, in his usual portrayal of realistic events (as opposed to fantasy ones) going to let John Clark and Jack Ryan simply die of old age?
I enjoy espionage and military story, hence his plot really suit me.
In fact, i am amazed by so much details about military weapon and machine that the author put in his book.
It started off by forming counterterrorism unit called Rainbow Six which comprised of two elite teams and lead by former CIA commander, John Clark.
In the AAR, complete discussion and short-coming are brought up and unit commander will address the issues.
Overall, i feel that it is a great accomplishment to complete such a thick book - almost 900 pages.I will recommend readers, who enjoy espionage and military stories, to pick up this book as well.
This tight knit group of former special forces and counter-terrorist units from around the world have one primary objective, stop the bad guys at any cost.
Rainbow will have to connect the dots in order to save the human species before the clock runs out.Considering the fact that the Shiva virus is so like the Ebola virus that has recently plagued our society I felt like I was reading a horror story instead of an action novel.
Nonetheless I read this a few years ago because I loved the title.
I think I may have played the video game, too, but not so much that I remember enjoying.
It was just after the film 'The Sum of All Fears' came out and Liev Schreiber played John Clark (a mere supporting role there, whereas here the main player), and quite well.
If you have never read a Clancy book, start here because I think it's the only book I could get through without going into a coma after each chapter.
