https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/681617.Landscape_Turned_Red
The orders made their way to McClellan, who suddenly held in his hands the blueprint to destroying Lee in detail, one small army group at a time.
One Union commander complained that McClellan sent his men into battle “in driblets.” McClellan’s failure to concentrate his forces or to attack both flanks at once allowed Lee to shift men along his interior lines, preventing the Union from flanking his army.
Historically speaking, both Antietam and Gettysburg were fought at small, heretofore unknown crossroad towns; both were precipitated by Lee’s army taking the offensive; and both ended with the battlefield in Union hands and the Confederate army fleeing unmolested.
Excels in every way -- equal to the best of Bruce Catton. This is the definitive story of the Battle of Antietam!
The best account of Antietam I have ever read and probably the best book about any Civil war battle I have ever read. I really appreciated Sear’s sarcasm about the slowness of McClellan and his need to micromanage all the logistical details such as setting up camp the night prior to his offensive. Great read!
An intelligence coup gave General George McClellan the opportunity to use the superb tool he had created, The Army of the Potomac, to destroy Robert E.
Lee's Army of Northern Virginia and quite possibly bring the war to an early end.
McClellan still could have decisively defeated the Confederate forces, albeit at a greater cost than if he had acted quickly, if he had been willing to commit his army to a general attack.
Opportunity lost.I would say this book is a must read for students of American history, and if one wants to write a story that includes that bloody day, this book should be constantly at hand.
Sears' book is probably the best single-volume work on the Battle of Antietam written to-date.
He has also written outstanding books on George B.
For all intents and purposes, the American Civil War should have ended in September 1862 with the destruction of Lee's army by the Army of the Potomac, smashing it into the river opposite Shepherdstown, VA.
McClellan did not use any of the advantages available to him, and allowed R.E. Lee to fight the Union Army to a tactical stalemate at the battle.
The great opportunity for ending the war earlier was lost.
An excellent and readable history of the Antietam campaign.
Lee’s motives in the campaign have been open to debate; while some historians argue that Lee wanted to pillage supplies and take Union pressure off Virginia, Sears argues that Lee wanted to force the Union into an all-out fight.
While Antietam is sometimes seen as a success for McClellan, Sears is more critical of the general’s sluggishness and, of course, McClellan's belief in the rebels’ numerical superiority was constant throughout the campaign.Sears draws heavily on primary sources and really fleshes out the fighting conditions of the war, and how traumatizing the defensive firepower of the Union was to the Confederates at Antietam.
A graphic, compelling, and thorough history of the campaign.
I read this book years ago, right after it was first published and enjoyed it immensely.
Also, I have a direct ancestor who was a young Lieutenant in the 21st Massachusetts with Burnside's Ninth Corps, and was badly injured at Burnside's Bridge during the Battle of Antietam.
It was an almost spiritual experience wandering over the landscape and remembering the horrors that Sears described in Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam.
I am looking forward to rereading the book sometime this year, as well as visiting the battlefield again in spring-summer 2013.
Instead, he sets out to prove that General McClellan, who essentially held the Union Army hostage for the duration of his tenure as commanding general, systematically and deliberately prevented the Army of the Potomac from crushing the Confederate forces.
Instead, through his reluctance to fight at all and then only because it was clear that to do otherwise would cost him his job, McClellan managed to make the whole thing a bloodbath that was almost a stalemate.Technically, it was a Union victory, and that was what Lincoln had to have to declare Emancipation and prevent Europe from recognizing the Confederacy.
This book came highly recommended by a few websites which I found while goggling books about the Civil War and especially Antietam. I then recommended it to my son and two of my son-in-laws since we were planning a family outing over Easter at Antietam. All four of us read this book and it did not disappoint. We liked Sears narrative style and the book fully prepared us for our trip. We liked it so much that we starting reading his other book on Gettysburg.
First published in 1983, Sears’ book is unrivaled in its elegance and complexity, examining not just the military history, but also the politics of the Army of the Potomac, which turned to 36-year-old General George B.
Major General John Pope’s Army of Virginia was shattered at the Battle of Second Manassas, and President Abraham Lincoln called on George McClellan to once again take command of the Army of the Potomac and save Washington, D.C. Sears reveals Lincoln made this decision alone, against the wishes of his cabinet.
In the end, all the talk of disloyalty came to nothing.As for the battle, General McClellan had at least six opportunities during the course of the campaign to crush Lee’s army.
Stephen Sears became one of my favorite Civil War authors after reading his To the Gates of Richmond. Landscape Turned Red, detailing the battle of Antietam, was equally engaging and incredibly well-researched. His unbiased accounting of actions and motives on both sides adds to his work's credibility. The accompanying maps were crucial in following the events on the battlefield and were equally detailed. Highly recommend.
Sears brings the war to life with pictures of individuals and their experiences along with the movements of regiments divisions and corps. it's a great picture of a horrible battle but well worth the read.My biggest complaint is that it's so very easy to lose track of who is who and whether a division is blue or gray. You have to watch very carefully to be sure who was on which side.
We could have visited any number of Civil War sites, including Gettysburg, quite easily but he wasn't interested in those places.
I thought I knew there was all there was to know about this battle.
I found I had a lot to learn.As he did with his book Gettysburg Sears goes back to the politics behind the battle.
If I have any problems with the book it might be Sear's insistence on referring to McClellan as 'Little Napoleon' but judging from McClellan's own letters and the observations of other perhaps the description wasn't that far off the mark.
Great book about one terrible day.
It’s one of the few histories I’ve read that could be legitimately described as a page-turner.Sears does a great job of unfolding the context for the Battle of Antietam—of 336 pages in the main body of the book, fully 180 are devoted to establishing the background.
The maps Sears has included are excellent; you might want to mark the maps with post-notes to enable you to find them easily.This book will be a treat for those who enjoy military history, especially as regards the Civil War. I recommend it highly.
I've only got past the introduction but for the Union and for Lincoln in general, the War was going very very wrong.Since the elevation of command from relative obscurity from military advisor to the President of the Confederacy and of fortifications in Georgia, General Robert E.
Lincoln has resorted to firing Generals and reorganizing commands but everywhere, even in the West (Mississippi and Tennessee)the Confederate armies run victorious.
One more rousing victory may give the doubting Thomas's in both countries pause to support such an endeavor as involvement in the American war.And so 150 years or so ago, General Robert E.
The Battle of Antietam took place on September 17, 1862 and it stands as the single bloodiest day of the Civil War. There were almost 23,000 casualties for American families to endure after the fight in Maryland for Antietam Creek.
The Battle of Antietam was a turning point in the Civil War--it was the first attempt by General Lee to invade the northern states and after the southern troops were withdrawn back into Virginia across the Potomac River, President Lincoln felt it was the time to issue the Emancipation Proclamation.
He also realized that the only hope that the Confederacy had for foreign intervention lay in a foray into the North and the defeat of the Federal Army.Sears is harshly critical of George McClellan, who through timidity and caution failed to take advantage of the "Lost Order." He squandered his chance to attack Lee's army when it was separated into five different parts; he failed to take command of the battle on September 18th, and he failed to follow-up the fighting on the 18th with an attack on Lee on the 19th.
Sears' clearly believes that McClellan has several opportunities to completely defeat the Confederate army in the time leading up to Antietam, and had the greatest opportunity over the four day span that covers the entire Antietam battle (the battles for Turner's and Crampton's Gap, the battle for Harper's Ferry, and Antietam itself).
He makes an incredibly convincing argument, one that I'm completely sold on at this point, even after reading such a hearty rebuttal as the one provided by Gene Thorp in the WaPo link above.The next time I visit the Antietam battlefield, it will be with a new understanding of why the battle was so critically important to the war, thanks to this book.
I learned much about the politics of the War, the petty jealousies among the Union's generals, and the psychological mystery that was George MacClellan, a general better equipped to organize defenses and hold splendid parade maneuvers than wage war on a battlefield.
And you'll be compelled to reflect what might have been, if only George MacClellan had had the guts to take advantage of the multiple opportunities he was gifted with--could he have effectively ended the War in 1862?
How much longer would we have had to wait for Emancipation if the War had ended at Antietam?
Any book on Antietam is going to have two guaranteed elements; a primer on the origins and issuance of the emancipation proclamation and a thorough indictment on the ego and hesitancy of General George B McClellan.
Sears despises McClellan, and if you didn't share in that opinion to begin with, he will go a long way toward convincing you by the end.This is likely the finest work on the Battle of Antietam.
Landscape Turned Red paints the complete picture of the campaign and its impacts upon the course of the war and the nature of the conflict.Re-read May ‘18.
I hope to read all of his books eventually.
I don't normally read War books, as I tend to find them unreadable.
This one was a pleasant surprise, as I found it incredibly readable and much easier to follow than others I've attempted, and I have very little knowledge about these events, and am not much of a history buff.
As a complete layman when it comes to war and military history, I have three minor complaints.
3) The chapters are far too long to not have any break markers.
The text is far too dense to go without.
Best book I have read, and re read on the Battle of Antietam.
I first read this book in the 1980s and have now just re read it in 2016.
Antietam is one of the big battles of the Civil War where the North had a big chance to pull off a big victory, but didnt.
The result of the limited Union victory allowed Lincoln to issue the Emancipation proclimation, freeing the slaves, and also giving pause to Englands thoughts of intervention.
Lee was repulsed from Union soil in Maryland and forced to retire due to his losses.
From the title on, Stephen Sears' Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam, comes closer to providing some such understanding than any other book I've read on the subject.
This is a wonderful book, and could only be improved upon, as by me on my second reading, by being read on the actual location of that battle.
If you can read this book and then walk through the farmer's field that history calls "The Cornfield", without tears, then you can't be helped further to this tragic understanding.
This book is an excellent portrayal of the bloodiest day in American history and the events that led up to it.
It places the blame for the battle and the blood that was shed squarely where it belongs, on General George McClellan, head of the Union Army.
Cautious by nature, General McClellan failed to pursue opportunity after opportunity to destroy the Rebel Army and, by not following up on it, prolonging the war by 3 more years.
It is an easy read and has battle maps as well.
Civil War history buffs, this one is great.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil War and/or the Battle of Antietam (Sharpsburg).
This is a very comprehensive look at the battle, mostly from the Union aspect, but still very good in its scope.
Sears is obviously an excellent historian and writer.
His books on Gettysburg and Chancellorsville are must-reads for Civil War historians, and this book is definitely their equal.
I give this book 4 stars because its treatment is basically from the Federal viewpoint - and probably Sears could have balanced it just a little more.
I really enjoyed reading Sears' book on the battle of Antietam. In particular, I liked the historical background that Sears provides leading up to the battle since that gave me a much better understanding of the frame of mind of many of the key participants. I also appreciated Sears honest opinions regarding mistakes made by both sides during the campaign and battle. Now I need to check out his other historical works!
I heard this was a classic battlefield history and Sears does not disappoint. He balances drama, military analysis, and political considerations in one of the finest history books ever written. Antietam never fascinated me, but now it sure does. My only gripe? Too mean to McClellan (1980s was the high tide of McClellan bashing) and too kind to Lee (Sharpsburg was a bad place to fight a battle).
This was the first Civil War I read. Prof. Sears hooked me on the Civil War. I was first made aware of the book as a book read on Public Radio by Michigan State University's Dick Estell. I then read it in 1989. My Great Grandfather Worley served in the Indiana Infantry. After the war, he located to Longton, Kansas and established himself as a banker and a State Representative.
very well researched and readable. great incorporation of individual correspondences of soldiers, the generals, and politicians. set the stage well, then catalogued the events and tactics leading into and through the battle well. if interested in antietam and the circumstances around 1862 it is a great read.
If Sears wrote it, you need to read it.
