https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1697599.The_Case_of_the_Haunted_Husband
Stephanie fought him off, the driver lost control and crashed his car.
He can get away with it because he always delivers.Usually when Mason does his investigations a dead body drops on him – sometimes almost literally – to keep his life full of excitement.
This time his life was even more exciting than usual, but I will shut up right here to avoid spoilers.This might be the most complicated Perry Mason mystery published up to that point.
This book was the closest to the perfect 5 star rating of all Mason mysteries I read so far.
This may be the quintessential Perry Mason novel. Gardner deftly weaves profound ideas about justice (particularly the ethos of being a defense attorney), sly humor, and meaningful and articulate ideas about life into his page-turner whodunnits. The best murder mystery writers do not shy away from discussing death itself and Erle Stanley Gardner takes his place with Edgar Allan Poe and other masters as being among the best.
This is atypical Mason, with Perry acting more like a golden age sleuth than typical, and Hamilton Burger is nowhere in sight.
This time, to the extent there is an antagonist, it’s Lt. Tragg, and unlike with Burger, finding the actual killer is more important than destroying Mason.
So, alas, the courtroom is not prominent in this one, and there are long passages of dull.
By the time the plot perks up, it’s going to be too late for most readers, even though the contest between Tragg and Mason is far more equal than the usual Burger vs Mason courtroom fun.For Mason fans only.
Hitchhikers, Movie Producers, & SecretsWhen you open up one of Gardner's Perry Mason novels, you find something which is very much like a classic pulp detective novel with a strange situation, a possible frame-up, corpses, vague clues, and keeping evidence close to the vest until Mason can figure out what it all means.
Unlike the classic pulp detective, Mason is an attorney and doesn't get involved in gunfights and brawls and the like.
This isn't really Mason's usual kind of case, but somehow the earthy goodness of the blonde's friend convinces him that he needs to clear her name, particularly when it means going up against the power of the Hollywood elite.
The driver finds himself murdered.
Expect the usual PM whodunit AND by this I mean having all the clues and yet not guessing who the murderer is.
I find this case utterly enjoyable and refreshingly different in a lot of ways:- Mason's client is not accused of murder- He needs to get his client off by solving a murder- Lieutenant Tragg (so far my favorite character) appears in a lot of the chapters and helps uncover the clues - A scene where Mason and Della Street kid around like children (I find this so cute) - A scene with Mason, Della, Tragg and Drake in a non-tense environment and - Mason actually "cooperated" with the police.
One of the more memorable onesI enjoyed this as a TV show and now I can say I enjoyed the novel on which the teleplay was based.I do think this is one case where the TV writers actually improved upon the original "gotcha" ending, though. I can still hear Mason, in that final scene, saying to Lt. Tragg, "Do you think I'm stupid, lieutenant?" and Tragg responding about him being underhanded, unscrupulous, conniving...but not stupid. It was the perfect lead-in to the gotcha moment. Not that I didn't enjoy the way the book handled it, though.
One of those Perry Mason books that has all the action happening - multiple murders, glitz and glamour of hollywood and whole lot of deductive reasoning. Mason and his team become super sleuths by guessing things not at all evident from the evidence.The action is high and Tragg hanging out with the team was fun. Thought Gardner was experimenting in this one by narrating events in the perspective of other character and also with philosophy (flat). Courtroom action limited to cross examination brilliance. Too many characters and slight unwarranted complexity apart, a decent book.
Erle Stanley Gardner has done the things that I could not do in my life. Writing a fictional mystery is a real challenge, and to write one that is gripping is another matter by itself. This piece is one of his best whodunits written and is a definite page turner. It kept me guessing till the very end and eventually, I didn't get it right. That's the whole point of a mystery, isn't it? A brilliant work of fiction with great conversations that you can go head over heels with. :)
Read a Perry Mason after a long time, great fun indeed! (view spoiler)[ But I was a bit shocked at the ending, Mason hinting that someone should take one's life to evade justice? (hide spoiler)]On the topic of Mason, I wish they make a modern day TV adaptation. Or, maybe I'll just try to get my hands on some episodes of the original series.
Not Gardner's best, but still fun. The plot borders on hopelessly complicated, and the court scenes are not as dynamic as usual. Still, an okay period piece.The kindle edition I read should be avoided. There are a fair number of spelling errors and even more typographical ones where lines break at random and confuse the reader. And while the blurb above calls the central character "Stephanie," in my edition, she is "Stephane" throughout. Odd!
This mystery reminded me a lot of my favourite sleuth, M. Hercule Poirot. The style, the narrative was too inspired by a Poirot mystery, according to me. Mason was more of a detective than a lawyer here, also a philosopher giving veiled messages to the murderer -- a la Poirot! I guess if I hadn't read all the Poirot mysteries already, I might have been a little more generous to this one...
I've been reading Gardner's Perry Mason books off and on for many years.
Nonetheless, I still love the general setting: the characters of Perry, Della, Paul, Lt. Tragg, and Hamilton Berger.
That, and the ingenious plots, are why I read Perry Mason.On the whole, the ones written by 1945 are the best.
Obviously, this is Erle Stanley Gardner trying to come to grips with life and death.There are too many scenes tangential to the plot, such as Perry, Drake, Tragg, and Della at dinner together.
At this point he had written about 18 of these Perry Mason stories.
Let us not!I've been picking up the Perry Mason Kindle editions as I find them on sale and have enjoyed most of them.
(not that that stopped anybody) but regulating the sale of liquor to certain strictly enforced "hours" was a British custom, not an American one.
The company that prepared the Perry Mason books for Kindle was definitely slip-shod.
I'll continue to buy the Perry Mason Kindle editions, but I SHALL check and make sure I know what I'm getting next time.
Mason treats Paul, Della and Tragg to a steak dinner while they share "clews" to solve the case.
Tragg twirls Della out on the dance floor of this dinner club.
Two interesting points, and I'm not going to ruin the plot, but Paul and Perry have a discussion they've had in many other books--which is that Perry likes to be on thin ice.
He's a risk taker and likes the thrill of the case.
The enjoyable part of the book were the character interactions (especially Perry Mason's interactions with others.) It was also fun to read a mystery from the point of view of someone who does not have the police's support and is willing to break a few rules while trying to find the answers.
However, the book dragged in the middle and I found myself wishing it would end soon.
The end, too, was confusing and I'm still not sure what Perry Mason's intentions were when he discovered the culprit.
In short, a good read to satisfy a craving for mystery but nothing memorable.
I did figure out whodunit in this one, only because I caught the one clue that lead to the murderer, but one doesn't read Gardner to figure out the killer.
You don't read them for character development (there is none).
You read them for the courtroom acrobatics that Mason comes up with, and the witty dialog between Mason and Della (or Tragg, or Paul Drake).
The cases themselves are usually so convoluted that you'd need flow charts, timetables, and endless amounts of caffeine to solve them.
But they're fun, like this one where Mason's client isn't, for once, accused of murder.
Rather, she's accused of reckless driving, car theft, etc.
A somewhat convoluted tale of Hollywood scheming but actually not. I sort of lost track of the nefarious women skulking about.I did appreciate the pine-scented romantic mountain cabin getaway that was located in Fresno. O.oAnd Mason did give forth with a long soliloquy on the circle of life to a recently widowed woman. Both Paul Drake and I were equally amazed. But then it turned out she was a murderess, so there's that.
#18 in the Perry Mason series. Forgettable entry in series.Perry Mason series - Aspiring actress Stephanie Claire just wants to be in pictures. But she may end up in mug shots when she gets herself caught up in a crime. It's up to Perry Mason to find the truth behind a suspicious scenario starring a menacing movie mogul, a hoodwinked housewife, and a man no one ever seen--alive!
An interesting mix of legal work, and detective work Gardner keeps you on your toes withe quick twists and lots of liars. This is maybe the third Perry Mason I've read & really enjoyed, would have rated 3.5 and rounded up, but the other reviews swayed me. Not a perfectly wound Celtic knot, but like a messy braid or some street foiod, this one was probably better off a little loose.
3.5 Stars.These are fun mysteries. They aren't anything outstanding, but Mason is a decent character and Della is great. It's also nice that there is a mix of detective work and legal work. I thought the mystery in this book was a good one, and his client was sympathetic enough that you wanted her off the hook for the crime.
This one is quite chock-full of twists and clues. I can't imagine all were included in the television episode of the same name. The double-twist, triple-flip ending was a bit unbelieveable...for anyone but Perry.
This book was kind of slow in a few sections, but it picked up near the end with more twists and turns than usual. Certainly worth reading. The description of the "upholstered" woman are very interesting in a series that almost always has nothing but skinny women.
Great development of the Tragg character. I wish that the actor who played Tragg on TV would have played the part to match the character in the books. The Tragg character on TV was more like Sgt Holcomb
Perry Mason is always enjoyable. While some of the comments in these books viewed through a modern lens are perturbing, for the day and time the books were fairly progressive.
Nothing outstanding here
Complicated plot line about a car accident, a Hollywood producer and a mysterious bigamist.
It is Perry Mason. What can I say? Pulpy yummy fun.Lots of pulp. A little sexists, though. Still, love that lawyer. Paul Drake did not shine in this one. Della did.
AverageIt is more of deductive and instinctive thinking than detective work. It is one the lesser interesting works of the author.
Interesting twists and resolution. Perry, Della, and their detective friend are on top of the game again! =)
Don't bother. It wasn't that bad if considered a pass time.
