https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1474864.Dr_Jekyll_and_Mr_Holmes
A curious piece appeared as the end story on the BBC’s ‘Six O’Clock News’ the other week, suggesting that – all these years after Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle died – there will finally be a new Sherlock Holmes novel.
Yes, that’s right, the estate has given permission and noted author Anthony Horowitz has signed-up to write it, and us Sherlock Holmes fans will finally learn what the great detective did next.
That isn’t because I believe it’s as good a book as ‘The Valley of Fear’, but until Goodreads allows us to mark in half stars, or even percentage points (what fun we’d all have if we were allowed to rank books a 2.4 or a 3.7) then 3 stars will have to do.
I purchased it at a book-sale thinking, "Hey, I really liked the Sherlock Holmes stories, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde was okay, and this book only costs a dollar, anyway!
But on the whole, the story rang true.Sherlock is first invited to join the case when Mr. Utterson arrives at his appartment at 221B Baker Street.
Mr. Utterson is worried about his friend, Dr. Jekyll who has made an extraordinary and disturbing will, leaving his entire estate the the reprehensible Mr. Hyde on the occasion of his death, absence, or disappearance.
This story will engage and delight anyone who has previously enjoyed the Sherlock Holmes stories or The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
A great Sherlock tale where we know more than he does.A great feeling to see Sherlock and Watson struggling to understand the elusive Mr Hyde while trying to link him to Dr Jekyll.Only in the end does it dawn on Sherlock although it is the most improbable solution it is the only one left.Great series and recommended book
A retelling of The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde but with Sherlock Holmes. It was slow at times, but it was never boring.Recommended 13+ for themes and a moment in a brothel.
Very good Sherlock Holmes pastiche. I enjoyed the author's take on Holmes and Watson's detecting skills, blending this with another literary classic, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Unfortunately I never read the latter book so am unable to mention the overlaps from that book into this one but I'm sure, since the author did a bang-up job with Holmes and Watson, that he did just as well with Stevenson's novel.I look forward to reading another of his mysteries!
As excellent a psychological science fiction as "The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde" was, its structured as a mystery.
I'm already suspending my disbelief far enough to read a mashup of Sherlock Holmes and Dr Jekyll/Mr Hyde, some stupid preface is somehow going to make your work more credible.
Interestingly, its Mr Holmes (who self-medicates for his unspecified mental health issues) who has more sympathy for Dr Jekyll, and Watson is the one who writes him off as a loony.
Sherlock Holmes returns in this brilliantly conceived and written novel, and to make it even better, he is tackling the case of Jekyll and Hyde.
If I have ever read an original Holmes story, I don't remember it.
Actually I had no problem integrating this narrative into the original Jekyll and Hyde story.
After all, finding out that Hyde is Jekyll is not really a shocker, but the story didn't suffer from the familiarity.
Estleman's previous Sherlockian tale, "The Adventure of the Sanguinary Count", I was keen to read this equally fantastical tale.
Estleman is a very accomplished writer and the fact he is a Sherlock fan is evident in his conveyance of the story.
Even with its faults I enjoyed this book immensely and will definitely seek out other titles written by Estleman in the future.
Sherlockian purists may find this kind of novel tiresome, but I find it appeals to that boyish side of my personality, a coming together of my most loved literary characters from my youth.
Any novel of Sherlock Holmes written by an author who is not Sir Arthur Conan Doyle must keep to the same basic formatting: Watson as narrator, occasionally being left out, his tendency to overblow events a little and falsify what information might hurt the people of the time.Estleman has succeeded magnificently.
It underlined the abilities of the Holmes Men, while not casting Watson in a poor light.
After all, who can keep up with one Holmes, let alone two?The novel is well-paced, we never lose sight of Watson as an able narrator, and all of Holmes's peculiarities are underlined here.
I was drawn to this novelized 'real' version of the story of Dr. Henry Jekyll and Mr. Edward Hyde.
The novel ends with a full confession by Dr. Jekyll and his suicide.I am a huge Sherlock Holmes' fan and was intrigued by the fact that this 'tale' was recorded by his assistant, Dr. Watson.
The duo vows to keep the tale a secret but that goes by the wayside when they meet Robert Louis Stevenson who convinces Holmes to relay the tale based on Dr. Watson's notes.
Estleman who writes this novel as an acquaintance of Dr. Watson's.
Estleman's mimicry of Doyle's writing style is much improved after Sherlock Holmes Vs. Dracula.
This novel read almost as if it were an actual "Lost" Holmes Adventure.
The only problem is that pretty much everyone knows the solution to the mystery just by reading the title.
If you have never read (or better yet have never heard of) Robert Louis Stevenson's Classic Horror tale then I would recomend reading this book, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Holmes, first.
It will make this book more exciting and maybe make the ending more of a suprise, Though it does change Stevenson's ending just a bit.
Also from "The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" series, this novel imagines Dr. Watson and Sherlock on the trail of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Though the author does a great job trying to "mash-up" Stevenson's story with Doyle's characters, the effect is unsuccessful. Since the reader knows from page one what Dr. Watson doesn't realize until the end, that Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde are the same person, the sense of mystery is almost entirely absent and the tension is strained.
Estleman's excellent (despite the schlocky title) first Sherlock Holmes pastiche, "Sherlock Holmes Vs. Dracula", I was expecting the same Doylesque style of writing in "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Holmes".
Perhaps because Estleman was mirroring two great classical styles of writing, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Robert Louis Stevenson, the book was less than riveting from the start.
The attempt to duplicate the manner of writing, especially the Victorian English feel that is needed for a good Holmesian pastiche, was less successful than his initial tribute to the great detective.
Still a credible job from one of my favorite writers, a good read.
When a lawyer asks Holmes to look into a man named Edward Hyde, Holmes and Watson encounter the most villainous young man they have ever seen.
They are unable to learn what control he has over Dr. Henry Jekyll and must step away from the mystery.
Then the government asks them to look into the murder of Danvers Carew.
They are lead right back to Hyde.Because he was constrained by the existing book I feel like Estleman didn't have a full Holmes story here.
Maybe it was because I knew what was to happen with Jekyll and Hyde.
It was still a good representation of Holmes, Watson and Myroft.
Insgesamt ein solides Sherlock Holmes Abenteuer - ich fühlte mich recht gut unterhalten. Allerdings braucht der Detektiv in diesem Roman für meinen Geschmack einen Tick zu lange, um dem Geheimnis auf den Grund zu kommen - man ist einen clevereren Holmes gewohnt. Wenn man das Jekyll und Hyde Original von Stevenson noch gut im Kopf hat, hat das Buch außerdem die eine oder andere Länge, da einiges eben in sehr ähnlicher Form nacherzählt wird. Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Holmes eignet sich daher vielleicht eher als Lektüre, wenn man Dr. Jekylls Geheimnis noch nicht kennt.
I haven’t really finished this book. Thought it might be interesting to check it out considering I just read Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde and am currently making my way through The Collected Works of Sherlock Holmes. But 20 pages or so in, after what was essentially a verbatim retelling of a scene from the original Jekyll and the introduction of a lacklustre Mr Hyde I decided I didn’t want to pollute the memory of the source material with this substandard fare.
Fascinante.Eu devia ter uns 12 anos e até então, eu tinha a maior preguiça do mundo de ler. Eis que eu leio esse livro forçado pelo curso de inglês e descubro que Literatura, em especial o gênero suspense, pode ser absolutamente agradável.Pra mim foi um divisor de águas.
وقتی پای شرلوک هلمز معروف به داستان استیونسن باز بشه....این کتاب رو از شرلوک هلمز علیه دراکولا بیشتر دوست داشتم.مقدمه و موخره جالبی داشت و خط داستانیش قوی تر بود.البته همچنان کارهای ایدرین کانن دویل رو بهترین ادامه های شرلوک هلمز می دونم
I loved this, a very clever merging of the two stories. The writing was very good, good enough so I was picturing Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce as I read the book. Recommended .
It's hard to enjoy something when you know what the punchline is, and, because of this, I felt the narrative was rather drawn out.
This is a wonderfully atmospheric retelling of the classic tale, well told I'm not made into a parity.
A fun read, but not as fun as Nicholas Meyer's Sherlock Holmes tributes.
A pretty good sherlock holmes book. But of course it's not as good as the original author, but good enough to satiate your thirst for sherlock detective story.
I guess proofreading and editing are a thing of the past...so sad. Story is typical Sherlock Holmes.
Excellent read, highly recommended for a slow day and the game's afoot.
A fun entry in the "neo-Victorian" genre, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Holmes is an improvement on its predecessor, Sherlock Holmes vs. Dracula. Although there are probably as many coincidences in this second volume as in the first, here Holmes's presence actually changes a vital aspect of the original book. Estleman captures Watson's voice as well as any other imitator (although no one that I've ever read has ever truly captured it), and the plot and dialogue are amusing enough for a quick read. Good for when you're feeling sick and/or tired and don't have the brain power for Ulysses.
I surely hope the other Further Adventures books aren't presented in this fashion.Anyway, Holmes and Watson are engaged by a G.J. Utterson, attorney and friend of a respected medical researcher named Dr. Henry Jekyll.
More than that, he's an uncouth, monstrous ruffian, and Utterson thinks Hyde has some hold on his client and is blackmailing Jekyll.Holmes' attempts to unravel the mystery of why Jekyll would associate himself with such a cur come to a dead end.
Because Jekyll seems to be the only person Hyde counts as a friend, Holmes, hoping to learn about the killer by digging into Jekyll's past, learns nothing new about Hyde...
A fast-paced yard that sees Holmes go up against one of the staples of 19th century horror. Thoroughly enjoyed this.
Estleman manages to blend Holmes and Watson into Stevenson's story of good and evil with great ease.
And the story is a familiar one--even if one has not read Stevenson's novel, one knows what the phrase "Jekyll and Hyde" means.In Estleman's telling of the story, Mr. Utterson consults Sherlock Holmes when he is worried about his friend Dr. Jekyll's odd bequest to the unknown Mr. Edward Hyde.
Holmes continues to be interested in the links between the evil Mr. Hyde and the highly respectable doctor.Estleman remains faithful to the original Jekyll & Hyde story, having Holmes take the actions of Utterson in some portions and adding logical actions of his own where necessary.
And, as an added bonus, you get one of the best chase scenes (in hansom cabs, mind you) in all of SH-pastichedom (at least since the boat race at the end of "The Sign of Four").And now a word to my Sherlockian colleagues: As a reader of the Canon and SH pastiches for over 40 years, I must say that I have reached the conclusion that Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson fit the best and do their best in their own era and in their own country.
