https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19306.Do_You_Know_Pippi_Longstocking_
This is a delightful picture book, featuring that beloved childhood character, Pippi Longstocking.
There is quite a lot of text, so it is probably best for 4+ if you are planning to read it to your child.Tommy and Annika live next door to an empty house and their dearest wish is that they should have new neighbours, with children.
Pippi is unlike any child Tommy and Annika have ever met before – she is rich, independent and super strong.
It is fair to say that, with Pippi next door, life is going to become one big adventure for Tommy and Annika.
This picture book is a lovely introduction to Astrid Lindgren and Pippi Longstocking.
Да поиграем на асоциации.
„Детска литература?” – „Пипи Дългото чорапче!”.
С рижите плитки, обсипаното с лунички лице и маймунка на рамото, любимка на милиони, тя идва отново, за да зарадва децата от всички поколения!
И дали вярвате или не, но ето че все още има история за Пипи Дългото чорапче, която едва сега се публикува за първи път на български език!
„Познавате ли Пипи Дългото чорапче?” и „Пипи в големия парк” са сред най-новите издания на „ПАН” – оригинални текстове на единствената по рода си Астрид Лингрен, но този път насочени към най-малките читатели и слушатели.
Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
“You understand Teacher, don't you, that when you have a mother who's an angel and a father who is a cannibal king, and when you have sailed on the ocean all your whole life, then you don't know just how to behave in school with all the apples and ibexes.” My favourite childhood book! I have read this couple of times and I always wanted to be like Pippi!
I forget when I read this book. But as far as I remember, Pippi made me think as children again...Pure and sincere..
uye!my childhood heroine!
Meine Meinung:Ich lese eigentlich gar keine englischen Bücher aber im Rahmen von einer Challenge muss ich eins lesen und da ich dieses Buch einst geschenkt bekommen habe und es in meinem Regal versauert, habe ich nun meinen Kids den gefallen getan und es ihnen vorgelesen.
Und ich war überrascht es hat echt Spaß gemacht.
Ein absoluter Klassiker was wir auf Deutsch schon kennen und ich war überrascht wieviel die Kids davon verstanden haben.
Was sie nicht wussten habe ich ihnen nochmal auf Deutsch erklärt.
Ich finds nach wie vor ein Meisterwerk, egal ob auf Deutsch oder Englisch.
Kangen baca buku ini. Dulu pertama kali baca pas SD. Minjem di perpustakaan keliling yang datang di sekolah tiap hari kamis. Ceritanya tentang seorang anak perempuan berambut merah dan mukanya totol-totol yang kuat banget. Dia bisa ngangkat barat-barang berat. Trus si pippi ini selalu make kaus kaki panjang. Pippi ini punya ayah pelaut yang berkunjung ke seluruh penjuru dunia. Yang suka bawa oleh2 barang-barang dan cerita aneh.
The unachievable wonderland for every little child.Also, the early feminism introductory shows a girl can just do anything.
I had so much fun reading this book. My sister recommended it to me and I never felt sorry that I did read it. Of all the books of the same author, "Do You Know Pippi Longstocking?" - in Indonesian version, published by Gramedia Pustaka Umum in '90s (could be '80s, don't remember anymore) - was the first book I read. Couldn't resist myself to fall in love with them, the author and Pippi Longstocking, the most magnificent girl in the world, since then.
One of my favorite books of my childhood.So funny,so interesting - just great.That author knows how to entertain the reader.The series based on the book are crap,but ''Czy znasz Pippi Ponczoszanke'' is a classic children book and i recommend it to everyone.I'm even thinking about re-reading it.
Astrid Lindgren is so genious.Pippi is the best children literacy I've ever read.She is my role model and has ignited the feminism spirit since the first time I red it in my elementary school time :)
My all time favourite book when I was young. Pippi with her longstocking and her ideas were always fresh and amusing to read. Definitely the kind of book I want my kids to read #well, that when I have one :)
Brilliant bookLove pippi!
pertama kali baca buku pippi dan langsung jatuh cinta!andai aku hidup di dunia pippi dan jadi teman pippi yang pasti bukan jadi monyet atau kudanya pippi
our family has fallen in love with Pippi - it's special!
imajinasinya ... hihi... unik lucu ... bebas ...
I do not like the sequels as well as the orginal story, but you get hooked, and this is a good story
i llllloooove pippi books! i just love them, along with other swedish writers books such as bullerbyn stories
Lovely pictures, exciting stories! Always love Pippi Longstocking's stories!
Yes best tom-boy ever called Pippi Longstockings who eats nails and gets lemonade from a tree. How bizarre? Let's see where Pippi ends up...
Awesome!!!
Pippi is adorable girl in different way :))
Gotta love Astrid Lindgren.. She is the BEST.
Ilustrowane wprowadzenie w świat przygód Pippi w skróconej wersji tekstowej.Tommy i Annika bardzo pragną mieć towarzystwo i gdy pewnego dnia do opuszczonej Willi Śmiesznotki wprowadza się mała dziewczynka, są zachwyceni. Razem smażą naleśniki, zostają poszukiwaczami rzeczy, bawią się wesoło w cyrku i dokazują na urodzinach Pippi, skacząc po meblach. Pippi pokazuje im, w jaki sposób można twórczo podchodzić do życia, cały czas pamiętając o tym, że najważniejsze jest dobre serce.
Vihdoinkin sain luettua Peppiä! Tykkäsin tarinasta ja luultavasti luen Peppiä vielä myöhemminkin. Häiritsevää ja harmittavaa tässä oli parit kirjoitusvirheet(!), jotka pomppas silmään.
I don't remember reading any Pippi Longstocking when I was growing up, and now that makes me a little sad.
There were multiple passages in this short book that made me stop and think, "This is exactly what I want my daughter to learn." My daughter is only 2, so I was worried there were going to be too many words per page to hold her interest, but I seriously underestimated the power of Pippi.
We read it twice the first day we got it, and she sat in rapt attention for the entire book both times.
I cannot wait to read more Pippi books!
Kauniit kuvat.Marion ei ihan ollut täysillä mukana mutta tykkää kyllä normaalisti Pepistä.
