https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426474.The_Exile
Perhaps it would be more accurate to state that their biographies, like themselves, are more like two sides of the same coin.While "Fighting Angel" focused on Andrew (Absalom) Sydenstricker's pioneering missionary career, it rarely mentioned his wife, Carie, or children, except when describing their almost complete alienation from him.
She is frequently described in "The Exile" as a lover of beauty, be it nature or music, while Andrew is portrayed in "Fighting Angel" as being almost completely oblivious to such "frivolities," as he would no doubt deem them.But the difference is also in the gender of the protagonists.
This biography of Carie Sydenstricker, mother of Pearl S.
The product of Dutch and French Huguenot immigrant parents, she was raised in a deeply religious Presbyterian community in West Virginia.
From her pioneer parents and grandparents, Carie inherited a strong character, courageous and lively spirit, a love for music and the beauty of nature, and a keen sense of humor.
At times the book can be difficult to read; the hardship and heartache Carie endured seem too much to bear.
Pearl is candid about her mother's struggle to reconcile her strict religious upbringing that seemed to frown on all things fun and lighthearted.
Very well written book, I liked it better than the "The Good Earth", though comparison is not justified since this is a biography of her mother and the other is a work of fiction.She brings home what late 19th and early 20th century China was like.
And her mother's anguished despair on losing children, to trying to keep faith in God and how husband and wife, two human beings, so physically close but in reality miles apart..........it is if she paints a collage with words, you feel it all.And the worst, maybe for her as a child of that marriage, but unbelievable as written word is how her mother and father drift apart.
This is Pearl Buck's biography of her mother.
Can't wait to get started.I found this book so interesting and such a pleasure to read that I didn't want it to end.
I generally read in short spurts anyway, but I found it really necessary with this book because there were parts I found so heavy that I had to take a break just to digest them.
Pearl obviously loved her mother intensely and she writes of a woman I would love to have known.
I can't think when I've read of a woman that I admire more that this brave, feisty mother of Pearl Buck's.
Peripezie di una donna americana di origine olandese che seguì suo marito, pastore presbiteriano nella missione di introdurre la religione cristiana in Cina.
Quello che più ho ammirato è stata la sua umana religiosità fatta di cure ai poveri e di continue domande di un segno divino, visto che 4 dei suoi bambini sono morti per l'inadeguatezza della vita in Cina ai primi del novecento.
Storia vera scritta dalla figlia che vide la durezza di comportamento del padre, che pieno di cultura formale ricordava solo un lato delle lettere di San Paolo dove la donna doveva essere sottomessa all'uomo!Mi è piaciuto molto nonostante un linguaggio a volte arcaico.
This is Pearl S. Buck's biography of her mother. It shows a lot about life in China before the Second World War and how her missionary parents fit in.It is not quite as good as the biography she worte of her father--which was "Fighting Angel"--but still a fairly decent book.Recommended for fans of Pearl s. Buck; fans of biographies or anyone interested in life in China in the 1920s.f
Questo segno da parte di Dio non arriverà mai, arriveranno anzi momenti bui, numerosi terribili lutti (perderà quattro dei suoi sette figli in Cina) e tanta solitudine, in quanto il marito sarà sempre in giro nelle campagne cinesi a cercare di convertire fedeli, cieco ai bisogni della famiglia e totalmente assorbito dalla sua missione.
Non certo le difficoltà della vita quotidiana (leggete questo libro se pensate che vivere nella Cina oggi sia difficile!), ma le sensazioni, i dubbi e le nostalgie che accompagnano la scelta di trascorrere la propria esistenza in un paese così diverso da quello di origine.
It is the story of an American woman who felt that she had to go to China to be a missionary.
It is a very sad and pitiful story, and there are some descriptions of China that are really hard to believe, and yet they are beautiful.
This woman is very pious and she is always waiting for a sign from God. She is of a very rebellious nature, really too much so to be called a saint.
The book gives you a very vivid description of the life the missionaries had to live.
Wow! A bio about her mother who was an amazing mother, woman, Christian and American. The way P.S.Buck has with words is magical---her word/writings sooth my soul. She learned well from her mother.
I lost interest in this book part way through, and stopped reading.
It is in very good condition for an 80-year-old book.
Pearl Buck is the author of The Good Earth, which won both a Pulitzer and the Nobel Prize for literature.
This book is a biography she wrote about her mother.
I recently read two interesting biographies of Pearl Buck and family by Peter Conn and Hilary Spurling which were both excellent.
So the story of Pearl Buck and family continues to occupy my reading time.
One book leads to another and then another.
It is understandable that both Pearl and her mother lost faith in God at the end of life.
Caroline Stulting, called Carie, grew up in a close family in West Virginia.
She wanted to feel closer to God, and when she met Presbyterian missionary Absalom Sydenstricker (called Andrew in this book) she decided to make a sacrifice of her life and go to China as his wife and helper, in the hope that God would speak to her.
She always saw herself as an exile from America, and tried hard to teach her children that they were Americans.
I suppose it was because the book was written in 1936 and she wanted to give them a little more privacy.
The major issue is, I believe, the subject matter; it is very difficult - if not impossible - in my view to write a novelization of the life of one's mother, for it is very difficult for a writer to view their protagonist dispassionately enough to fully enter into the character.
In most novels, readers can rest easy, knowing that little pretty children are not likely to die without a drawn out scene of great pathos; here, as in other Buck books, every character is always at risk of a quick and ignominious death.
Very good.
Wish I had known it was a biography of her mother before I started.
I should have read the Goodreads reviews first!
Not that very long ago, people had lives that were so difficult...
it's a wonder that any of us are here.
Maybe we have religion to thank?
This story certainly highlights the fact that it was a strong motivator for the Buck family and ancestors to keep on when there seemed to be so little joy in life.
But on the other hand, Carrie could find happiness despite great loss, and it came from within.
Inspirational, really.
this was ok, parts of it made me feel like i was rereading Bucks auto bio again. Her mothers life was similar to hers with regards to their married life. Easy read but not much of interest for me.
This is now one of my favorite all time books. Pearl Buck has portrayed her mother in a totally complete way that makes you want her for your best friend and weep for all the heartaches and trials she endured so well. This would be a perfect book club book.
Always love Pearl Buck's books. Beautifully written.
I loved this book about Pearl Buck's mother who married and then traveled to China where she lived the rest of her life and where she and four of her seven children were buried.
I did not like this as well as some of her other titles. Supposedly, a biography written by Pearl about her mother, Pearl herself is strangely absent from the story line.
The Exile by Pearl S. Buck (1963)
Gripping, heart-rending, extraordinary. This is Pearl Buck's biography of her mother - what an amazing woman, what an amazing book, written with such tenderness, sensitivity and skill.
This is Pearl Buck's biography of her mother--an energetic, admirable woman.
