https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/967494.The_Mitten
5 Beautifully Perfect ★'sOh, I LOVE The Mitten book.
This book has always been a favorite of mine especially when I was a kid :) It is such a delightful read.
It's about a young boy named Nicki, who loses his mitten in the snow and his lost mitten becomes a host to a lot of different forest animals!
I love all the animals, the little boy, and his grandma and the snowy outdoors.
It's the perfect book to read during the winter seasons.
This book is super fun to read aloud.
It's cute and funny and the ending is perfect!
Reading a Jan Brett novel is like being wrapped in a warm blanket on a cold night in front of a fire with cocoa in hand.
Tonight both kids were interested in the book.
Who can resist looking at those panels on the side and all the details of the book.
The hands and faces of the people are incredible.Both kids gave the book 5 stars.
It was a great story they said.The story is a Ukrainian folk tale and in the intro Jan talks about the stork nest on the roof is a sign of good luck.
But while I have indeed and oh so much enjoyed reading about the genesis of Jan Brett's personal version, of her The Mitten, I do kind of wish that instead of just telling us (showing readers) how she used several different Ukrainian folktale versions of the mitten story and why she chose to include and not include various aspects (such as the fact that she obviously did not want to write a story where someone actually ends up shooting at the sheltering animals), Jan Brett had also listed the specific and actual titles and literary sources of the tales of which she had made use (to create her own adapted and retold version of The Mitten).However, my minor quibbles that there is no list of specific tale sources and titles quite notwithstanding, both textually and illustratively, The Mitten is indeed truly magical, sweetly entertaining and yes, even gently humorous (with a rabbit, a mole, a European hedgehog, an owl, a badger, a fox and a bear sharing the warmth of young Nicki's lost white mitten, stretching and restretching it, until finally a diminutive mouse makes the bear sneeze, dislodging all of the animals in one twirling swoop).
To be honest, I felt little enthusiasm for reading this book, but it’s one of six books for the Children's Books group’s Picture Books Club December “winter” themed books, so I read it.I’m so glad that I did.
I loved all the animals, the boy and his grandmother, their house, the snowy outdoors, and most of all, the humor.
The illustrations are very appealing; I loved the animals and I enjoyed all the detail in each picture, and the mini pictures that reveal what is about to happen on the next page.This would make a fun read aloud for groups of children or one to one.
The mitten was a retelling of a Ukrainian winter Folktale.
I read this one to my little girl who enjoyed the animals and the snow.
I enjoyed the illustrations more than the folktale itself.
I thought it was a creative touch to add the mitten windows which allowed you to catch a glimpse of what was going on inside or outside of the cottage.
Although not a Christmas tale, the colors chosen to create the illustration definitely reminded me of Christmas.The story is cute; a lost glove and animals of all shapes and sizes seeking refuge from the cold.This is another Picture Book Club read found here http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/4...
The illustrations in this adorable story are ridiculously great. This book is currently on my 4-year-old's "top 10 list."
“The Mitten” is easily one of the cutest and most beautiful folktales ever told for children!Jan Brett has certainly outdone herself in this book as she beautifully writes and illustrates this cute Ukrainian folktale.
But, the image that stood out the most for me was the image of all the animals trying to snuggle up inside the mitten, which kept on getting bigger and bigger as more animals came in (man, Baba’s stitching must have been really strong!)“The Mitten” is clearly one of those folktales that children will easily laugh along with if they love strange folktales about animals getting into one small mitten!
This is the first Jan Brett book I ever read, and not only did I enjoy the story, but the illustrations absolutely captivated me. When I use this in story time now, I have the kids anticipate what will appear on the next page by looking at the sub-story occurring in the side boxes on each page. While Alvin Tresselt did the earliest picture book version of this Ukrainian folktale that I know of, Jan Brett's is better known because of her beautiful illustrations. A perfect winter readaloud, and highly recommended!
Splendid, highly detailed illustrations. I don't know about the story--something like six animals all crowd into a single mitten? I wasn't born yesterday. (I was born six weeks ago.) But Mom says it's just fun and whimsical and sometimes with books we have to suspend our disbelief and use our imaginations. Fair enough. -M
This is a perfect children's book in every way. The text is short and simple, and the illustrations tell part of the story. I love the last picture!I prefer the board book edition: it is shorter and doesn't contain a lot of extra verbiage, perfect for a young child's attention span.
I am familiar with a number of English-language adaptations of this traditional Ukrainian folktale, in which a series of animals take up residence in a lost mitten.
There is the mitten-shaped retelling released by Moscow Malysh Publishers in the 1970s, illustrated by E.
And then there is this book by Jan Brett, arguably the most popular version of the story, at least here in the United States.Brett's simple narrative and beautiful illustrations make this picture book an ideal story-hour choice, particularly for very young listeners who find this type of "progression tale" appealing.
Well worth a look, particularly if read in conjunction with some of the other versions.
And of course I thought of The Mitten.I have read many of Jan Brett's books; her tales are engaging and her illustrations a feast for the eyes.
His grandmother told him that white mittens would be easily lost in the snow.
Soon a mole finds the mitten, then a rabbit, and a host of other animals.
So you have the main picture show what is happening in the story, the left side pictures showing Nicki looking for his mitten, and the right side pictures showing what animal is coming next.
I have used it wish students of a variety of levels-as a simple and charming fairy tale to older students studying the form and learning how powerful the art of illustration is and how critical it is in the successful performance of a story.These illustrations are magical as they tell the story of a common object in an uncommon way and reveal the magic that resides in the most ordinary of objects, especially in the world of childhood or that part of us that remains open to that beauty and sense of possibility.I love this book-I think everyone should read it to a child.
When a Ukrainian boy drops his brand new white mitten in the snow, a bunch of wild animals moves into it. Adapted from a Ukrainian folk tale. For this picture book, the typical Jan Brett sidebars are used to relate the boy's story while retaining the page's focus on the animals. Until, near the end, something happens to reverse the lenses. Solid story with beautiful illustrations, though not quite as good as The Hat.
Apparently, this is an adaptation of a Ukrainian folktale. Be sure to take a good look at the last page of the book!
The illustrations that boarder the page's main illustration show us other things that are going on during the time of the animals moving into the mitten.
The illustrations and text each tell the same story separately, but together they have much more impact on the reader.#2 Elements of Design "One way to obtain action in what might otherwise be a static series of pictures is to change the focus, just as a movie camera changes perspective or shows close-ups and then moves back to pan the whole scene." (Huck) In The Mitten, as animals are stuffing into the mitten we get a sense of this element of design.
The Ukrainian Folktale “The Mitten” is about a little boy, Nicki, and his Grandmother, Baba.
Nicki wanted his Grandmother to make him mittens white as snow.
Baba is worried that Nicki will lose his mittens in the snow.
The book ends with only a picture of Baba looking very confused at the stretched out mitten.
In the pictures of the left mitten, on each page, it shows what Nicki is doing.
In the pictures, of the right mitten, it reveals what is about to happen next.
Kindergarteners would be able to use the illustrations and mitten clues to retell this wonderful Folktale.
This story is based on a Ukranian folk tale, and begins with a young boy named Nicky who asks his grandmother, Baba, to knit him a pair of snow-white mittens so that he could go out and play.
Along the way, Nicky loses one of his mittens in which several animals come along to snuggle inside and get warm.
Nicky spots the mitten and grabs it just in time to show his Baba that he has not lost them as she said he would.This book can be used to teach sequence of events, as well as identifying characters, identifying the setting, and describing what happens in the beginning, the middle, and the end.
The Mitten is a Ukrainian folktale about a boy, Nikki, who wants snow-white mittens.
Then one at a time a mole, a rabbit, a hedgehog, an owl, a badger, a fox, a bear, and a meadow mouse find Nikki’s mitten and squeeze inside for warmth.
Jan Brett’s The Mitten is a classic picture book that uses illustrations to help depict the story.
Furthermore, this book is a good text to use when teaching kindergartners through second graders how to make predictions.
This book is also a good text to use when teaching winter themes.
I walk to my school every day.
The other day while I walked to school I was talking on the phone.
When I was turned the corner to walk into my school building, I realized that because of my free hand needed to talk on the phone, I had dropped my mitten.
The whole time I was walking I imagined how fun it would be to walk into a first grade classroom that morning and reenact my adventure!
After re-reading the book The Mitten by Jan Brett, I once again realized how amazing her books are in the classroom.
The boy, Nicki, is young and his relationship with his grandmother, Baba, ties family into this story, which makes it even more emotionally appealing.
This book also incorporates a little bit of humor because the mitten finally pops all of the animals out when the smallest mouse enters the mitten, making the bear sneeze.
It is also funny because Baba thinks that Nicki had kept track of the little white mitten the entire time, but really it had been lost.
When the bear sneezed, the mitten appeared in the air and Nicki got it back in time for Baba to see!
And as beloved as they have been through the years, I know something is currently super popular when I see it in the small selection of books at the grocery store as I saw several of Brett's winter/Christmas titles yesterday.
I've seen board book editions of this one, but I'm glad I didn't go that route -- I think full page, full size is the best way to enjoy this one if possible.
I'm reading from a Christmas Treasury I borrowed from the library, but if the rest of the stories are as good as this one, a copy may find it's way into our collection before next Christmas!
We've read Jim Aylesworth's version of this story (The Mitten) and so when this book was picked as a December read for the Children's Books group Picture-book club, we were excited to read another version of this story.
We read the 20th Anniversary edition, which includes an author's note at the beginning.
It describes the research that went into making this story and I appreciate her attention to detail, like adding a stork's nest to the cottage roof for good luck.
Overall, it's a great story to read aloud with children.
I would recommend this book to kids that are just learning how to read and want a cute little story!
Next, a rabbit, badger, and then a bunch of other animals crawled in that made the mitten bigger.
A little mouse somehow tickles the bear's nose and the bear sneezes causing the animals to fly out of the mitten.
Nicki then finds his stretched out mitten!I recommend this book to young kids.
This is a great story about animals and what could happen if you lose your things.
Both girls and boys will like this book, because all kids like animals.
I used to love this book when I was a kid and I still do.
I think it's a cute book with great illustrations.
I would recommend this book to kids that are just learning how to read and want a cute little story!
Then a bunch of creatures try to fit into the mitten.
Next a rabbit, badger, and then a bunch of other animals that keep getting bigger.
A little mouse some how tickles the bear's nose and the bear sneezes causing the animals to fly out of the mitten.
Nicki then finds his stretched out mitten!
When I saw this book I had to snag it for the kiddos. I remember this book when I was much younger and I always liked this book and the others that Jan Brett has to offer. Just like their mother before them, my children loved it. They just thought it was so silly and adorable. A young boy has lost his mitten and several animals try to take cover in it. The story is a good one and the illustrations fit it so well. This book has most definitely joined the bed time story rotation.
This book was a great read! All of the illustrations are wonderful, as they extend and support the story. It was super neat how the sides of each page foreshadows the next animal to enter the mitten, as well as shows Nicki's search for his white mitten (each side of the page has a mitten where it shows these two things). Overall, it was a classic storybook that I believe students would enjoy to read, as well as see the incredible and unique illustrations.
I love reading this book in storytime. I love Jan Brett's intricate borders that give you a preview of the next animal to make an appearance.I have the kids act out the story by pretending that the storytime quilt is the mitten, and having all the kids get under it. At the end, I bring out my mouse puppet, and tickle all the kids noses to make them "sneeze", and then I fling up the quilt and have the kids run around. Great fun!
Reading this Folktale book as a child was delightful for me. This book is about friendship and helping one another, or that's what I always got from it. That is how my past teachers taught us from this book. We would read it only in the winter. I love the illustrations. The animals are kid friendly and look happy. The colors are kind of dark, I think mainly because of the season in the year-Winter.
The book “The Mitten” by Jan Brett is classified as juvenile fiction; the targeted age group is ages 4 to 8. This is a very good book to go along with a winter or season theme; it is also a story about inclusion and making room for newcomers. The story is great for vocabulary enrichment and discussion about names different cultures use to refer to their grandparents i.e. BaBa.
