https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28278.When_Rain_Clouds_Gather

It was Alice Walker who advised me to read Bessie Head, and it’s true, she knows how to induce tenderness & sympathy for her characters, and fill a scenario that other authors would make gloomy and grim with sweet passion and sunlight, with humanity and warmth.There is quite a strong author voice in this novel, a strong hold maintained on the material by the author.
Bessie is like a wise storyteller interpreting a true tale at the fireside, and in her hands everything springs to glowing green life as if the rains have fallen.
A wonderful story of hardship, tragedy, and hope. A black South African fugitive from justice, a young British expert in farming, two wise old villagers, an evil and cowardly chief, his jovial and womanizing brother who's also a chief, a lonely and proud woman in love and other characters populate this story of a village in Botswana struggling to survive in a harsh climate to take on new innovative farming techniques while coming to terms with their own inner struggles.
He is caught in a social no man’s land – a wanted man in South Africa, and unwanted by elements in Botswana.In the novel, Head spends a lot of time examining the human condition, especially in the conflict that arises between traditionalism, colonialism and the need for progressive thought.
He is once again coming up against tradition in Africa, yet he is a dreamer who sees boundless potential for prosperity, and here he feels he is in a position to inspire those around him to strive for this brighter future.Together, Makhaya and Gilbert work for a change for the better in the village, because they are able to think outside the box and are also not afraid to try new methods when they see that the old ways aren’t working.But we are also faced with the two chiefs.
I previously read Maru, by the same author, and found it well-written but disturbing, given that the central "romance" consists of the male protagonist stalking, manipulating and putting down the female protagonist.
So I expected to really enjoy another book by Head, with a different plot.
Unfortunately, while this one isn't disturbing, nor is it engaging.
The book tells us a lot about the characters and they tell each other a lot about agriculture, without their ever coming to life in a way that would draw me in.
I read 121 out of 188 pages, until I realized there was no reason to continue to drag myself through something that isn't entertaining.
Bessie Head's When Rain Clouds Gather was a delight to read. About a South African exiled in Botswana and there has to deal with chiefs, politics, a man who is eager to change the circumstances in a village. I really liked the themes of love, jealousy and power struggles that are handled in this book - between authorities and ordinary people; between men and women and between men. It had a tragic end which also bring forth a realisation about love.
Bessie Head's books are short but is filled to the brim with characters who become elements of study.
In When Rain clouds gather, she steps back from story telling and allows her characters to teach the readers who are observing in on the changes that's starting to take place in the quiet rural farming village.
The story is a study in disappointment and hope.
Head plays in twos; be it in Maru or in When rain clouds gather, she uses dualism to further her ideas and spin a twist on contradiction.
Personally, When Rain clouds gather held a sense of familiarity.
Though a few stock characters of the African village drama (like gossipy clutches of socially hostile women or the fawning chief’s toady) still wander through “When Rain Clouds Gather,” Head has made an effort to fill her fictional village with misfits, thinkers and eccentrics: the sort of characters that add depth to their surroundings.Considering that the book’s subject matter (the combination of human energy and ideas that are necessary to transform a traditional village’s attitude towards agriculture and subsistence farming) might seem a bit dry (complete with droughts), Head’s sense of humor (also dry) is quite an asset:“Never mind if the rain was no longer what it used to be in the good old days when the rivers ran the whole year round and dams were always full.
I didn't think it was possible for rain clouds to gather on a daily basis and never a drop of rain. A story of hope, new beginnings, and pain. The tease of clouds above without a drop to give is a reflection of the people that try to rule this Botswana village, but sometimes a drop will come and changes will be made.
Been meaning to read the work of this author for years, so when I saw this book on the shelf in Dog Eared Books on Castro, I snagged it immediately.
So glad I did - I loved the book, and will look for more by this author.
The gender politics of the book would not pass muster today (the book was first published in 1969, I believe), but we've all seen a lot worse, and not just in the classics, either.
The central character is a South African man who's fled to Botswana (the author herself was South African living in Botswana) in the early days of independence, when South Africa was still in the horrific grip of apartheid.
As someone said in previous review, the book cannot be understood without digging deep into the culture of S.Africa and Botswana. Thus, I had some difficulties drawing parallel between the book's actions and real political events concerning apartheid and genocide in South Africa. Overall, great novel, which although could've been shorter - way too descriptive, IMHO. 3 stars.
"You may see no rivers on the ground but we keep the rivers inside us. That is why all good things and all good people are called rain. Sometimes we see the rain clouds gather even though not a cloud appears in the sky. It is all in our hearts."
Tal vez porque un hombre permite hablar de los temas de la vida pública de la aldea y de la nación de manera más convincente que una mujer, relegada a tareas domésticas o a la agricultura (el cultivo se hace en el terreno aledaño a la cabaña en la que se vive; el ganado -responsabilidad masculina- se lleva a pastorear a donde haya agua, hierba y forraje; normalmente, lejos de la aldea); o porque en un hombre tener conciencia política es más aceptable que en una mujer; o, quizá, porque para implicarse en la tarea de liderar a la aldea hay que ser un hombre.Sea por la razón que sea, este no es un libro que invisibilice o niegue a las mujeres.
This book is one of the most complex I've read.
The entire length of the story is how he integrates himself in his new community, thrown in with themes of hope, trust, faith, tribalism, change.Head offers a lot of explicit descriptions of agricultural practices, but what interested me more is how she creates implied narratives with ideologies (Christianity, democracy, authoritarianism) in the story, and she also does the same with most characters, keeping the reader outside looking in.
I suspect the latter, Head used as agency for otherness, a theme she carries in all her books.
Makhaya meets Gilbert, a white man interested in agricultural practices and the improvement of work on the land in Botswana and helps him with his projects in a Botswanan border village.
Village life is shown through the celebrations and traditions, the gossip and the rumours, the work of the woman while the men are out in the fields, the descriptions of the land and the weather that rules their existence, the contrasts and conflicts between Gilbert's desire to improve their lot and the traditions of tribal culture that hold him back, the projects they untake (Makhaya and the woman beginning the tabacco plantations is a great scene, imbued with such a human essence).
This book is rich in imagery, ideology and native ways clashing with Imperialistic attitudes.
Yet, many history books neglect to explain Black Africans' complicitty within this devastating period.Favorite quotes:158-For so long there had been this grey graveyard in which he had lived.
All this plus the Battle of the Sexes that come up ocassionally are all in this very short story.For these and many other reasons, I'll get as many copies for my Freshman this fall to read as supplementary pieces to Obama's 
A Long Way Gone
This book is about a South African political refugee who settles in a village in Botswana, soon after its colonial independence, whilst fleeing the system of apartheid in South Africa.
I found this book quite poignant but inspiring at the same time.
The dry, arid setting of Botswana worked well for a story about loss, frustration and the difficulty of migration for those seeking political refuge in foreign lands.
This one is definitely one of her greatest works and I will be recommending it to friends and family!
Makhaya, one of the central characters, has such an appealing intelligence and thoughtful nature, it's hard not to get sucked into his story.
He's not always been a good man, but he's starting over, trying to get his bearings, trying to find love.The character interactions are well written, there's no shallowness to their relationships.
The sorrow that enters during the drought year is tenderly addressed, by both Head and Makhaya, and you really feel how much she loves the people she's modeled her novel after.
Her use of language is at times painfully beautiful, especially during Makhaya's passages of thought.
Loved this novel.
really loved it.
This book is transformative.
It ended too soon like most pleasures I know.
My favourite characters are Makhaya, Maria, Paulina Sebeso &Mme Milliped amongst which I saw myself a lot in Paulina's character.
I often say God speaks to me through books and this just proved it once again.My rating is by no means exaggerated,I absolutely enjoyed Bessie's writing in that she managed to address issues of religion, politics,morality, agriculture, entrepreneurship,romance & human development amongst other things all intergrated with such creativity and an exquisite story telling style.When rain clouds gather is a legendary book and its relevance will remain preserved.
I recommend it highly,not only as a must read but also as a must have in your collection.
This book is about life in a rural Botswana village.
It starts with Makhaya fleeing South Africa for neighbouring Botswana and seeking refugee status in a rural farming village.
In South Africa he has been the victim of apartheid and police brutality.
In the village he meets various characters including Gilbert an Englishman who is trying to change farming methods but is having to battle the corrupt chief Matenge.
The books touches on the chief system, the role of women , the various farming methods employed , the tragedy of a drought and life in Botswana.
The book was a light read, it makes sense why some high schools recommend this book for their learners. The themes flow into each other and the women portrayal of women book showed elements of strength, unity and leadership. I still regard Mary as my favorite Bessie Head book.I also found the book to be moving slow, it felt like some parts could have been left out. The book is educational and teaches one on the history of people from Botswana.
This Book is all about african cultures and tribes. Makhaya is the main character here who crossed over the border to Botswana from South africa. He tried to fight againset the crises of Botswana along with the English Scientist Gilbert. They are going forward from the traditional life to modern life and there by trying to improve the political, cultural, anf financial situation of Golema Mmidi.
From Novel: Biography ch. 41, this S. African-born, Botswanan-moved lady.
It was written about Maria that " there were two women in her- one was soft and meditative and the other was full of ruthless common sense, and the two uncongenial personalities clashed and contradicted each other all the time" All of the above being Head's personality traits.The setting is a small semi dessert village in Botswana.
Also that tribalism, racism and hatred does not surpass love, human generosity and selflessness.The book is also loud on the fact that, that which is different should not be automatically dismissed or shunned.
Bessie Head creates an environment that has a very contemporary feel in her novel, an environment that easily fits into our understandings of (southern African) society today, although there is a rather Utopian feel to her creation, that of a small rural town set in the past that would only exist today because it has been forgotten.
Head is insightful, and there is a strong sense of truth in the creation of her characters and in her writing.
This novel is a great way to portray the insights and feelings of the politically disadvantaged without creating anger or resentment within the reader.
Read around the world Botswana.I enjoyed the insight into the political, social and tribal life in Botswana.
This book highlights the fact that it is not only rich white nations who taken advantage of the native people of Botswana but also their own tribal chiefs and people in power.I liked the idea that by working together as a co-operative and by growing crops that can make a profit the native farmers or more specifically their wives could actually earn themselves a living.
While this was a great idea in principle the harsh Botswana weather brings tragedy to the people that not even a co-operative can prevent.
I’m blessed to have discovered this author. She is a philosopher. Having read AQuestion of Power first, with is cryptic messages, it’s confusion and magic, I was expecting Mott f the same but this book was very more to earth, more grounded, yet still with the philosophy and wonderment of a changing Africa, through her, I feel I better understand the Native African experience.
Another one of my all time favourite books. There is nothing romantic and idealised here. Yet somehow she makes me feel like everything will work out as it was intended. Not easy reading at times. But it's real and I admire her for that.
Another insightful novel by Bessie Head. Its such a loss that her life was tragic and ended so early. Looking forward to getting my hands on The Collector of Treasures.
nothing really happened tbh though I bet people who like more nature-y books would prob appreciate it more
