https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1401403.The_Three_Christs_of_Ypsilanti
There are microbreweries, an art scene and hipster spillover from U-Michigan, and famous Art Fairs, Heritage Festivals, and even an Elvis competition for the inhabitants.This is Ypsilanti General Hospital, where three men who thought themselves Jesus Christ lived.
He did not begin with Jesus - he thought any famous person would do.
They readily admitted the other men were insane or ill, and that they were the only 'True' Jesus Christ, son of God, Messiah, Alpha and Omega, etc., etc.In the afterword, the author sadly reminisces and apologizes over the whole thing, and remarks the story of madness was about himself as well as the three Christs.
Clinical psychologist Milton Rokeach and his assistants undertake a unique speculative 'treatment'—to bring these mutually incompatible identities into conflict with one another in carefully controlled meetings and pointed discussions.
(This is not exactly a spoiler—since over fifty years later schizophrenia is still very much with us.) But The Three Christs of Ypsilanti remains relevant and important to this day not necessarily with respect to its stated clinical purpose, but rather in the many questions and related concerns that it raises along the way.
How does a psychologist successfully manage the problematic ethics of provoking a schizophrenic in the attempt to improve his condition?
A young woman with a lovely voice was doing the honors when just across the aisle, ten feet away from me, this guy started singing.
But other times, he just moved his fingers in some kind of dissonant necessity.Felipe Rivero walked two men in a row, which caused my neighbor to yell: TAKEHIMOUTTAKEHIMOUTTAKEHIMOUTTAKEHIMOUT......
The thing was: the guy kind of knew the game; he was just, well, animated.
The author used a 'control group' in his study.
The control group was three delusional women in the same hospital (one woman believed she was Cinderella).
In his afterword, written twenty years later, Rokeach doesn’t apologize for his experiment, but he admits that, in a way, there were four men who thought they were god — the three patients and himself, the psychologist who, albeit in the pursuit of knowledge and in the hopes of helping the men, played with their lives.In the introduction, Rokeach explains that while the initial plan was to see what happened when these men were brought together, “[s]ubsequently, a second purpose emerged: an exploration of the processes by which systems of belief and behavior might be changed through messages purporting to come from significant authorities who existed only in the imaginations of the delusional Christs.” Fully hoping to help these men out, constantly scrutinizing ethical concerns, Rokeach assumes writes letters to Joseph and Leon pretending to be authority figures from their delusions.
The Three Christs of Ypsilanti is an early psychology case study involving three men in Ypsilanti State Hospital who think they are Jesus.
The researchers were just as much a part of manipulating the outcome as the patients were part of the experiment, and the effects of this study can actually be written off as results due to researcher bias.
There are some very convoluted explainations by the patients that actually make you feel sorry for them, and there are some messed up situations that the researchers put them in.
It was interesting, but it makes me kind of sad for the patients that were involved.
This was on my shelf for some time because I loved the idea of it so much I was afraid reading the book might disappoint me.
Near the beginning it did make me laugh because the three men just seemed so plum crazy.
There’s some marvelous diction - the somewhat old-timey use of “fellow” and “sir” in the group, or Clyde calling Leon a “rerise” because he claims to have been resurrected.
Nevertheless, I also thought his intentions were mostly good, and I’m afraid there was slim chance of any of these men being escorted out of insanity.
As the author says, they went crazy with very good reasons.
Kind of amusing, maybe something you need to read as a psychologist but probably not?
This is a remarkable, utterly unique book focusing on a (somewhat ethically questionable) experiment of putting three schizophrenics who all thought of themselves as being Jesus Christ into a focus group; and seeing what happened.
It's a challenging, hopeless story but one with moments of warmth (especially later on, when you see the 3 Christs forming a sort of camaraderie), but it's Leon who really makes the book interesting.
This isn't an easy book to read but I think it's a powerful and interesting one, and (though I read an older edition) I'm glad the New York Times is keeping it in print, since I suspect there will never be anything else like it.
It's incredible how smart these three men were, specifically Leon and then Joseph, not so much Clyde. But Leon was a sage of sorts for me. Many of his comments and explanations, his unique way of seeing the world, were intricately well informed. I believed him to be a prophet, Joseph a minor prophet; prophets of confusion, of delusion, and prophets of their own schizophrenic prisons that for our sake (society's) doubled up by hospitals.They shuffled up and down sterile bleak psych-ward halls until death released us from their wisdoms.
The author, a social psychologist, brings together three schizophrenic men who believe they are Christ (Clyde, a 70 year old farmer; Joseph, a 50 year old failed writer; and Leon, a 30 year old man who had a psychotic, controlling mother).
Stop snoring!’ Whereupon Clyde yells, “I’m not doing it, he is!” Or the time that Joseph says he is God but also governor of Illinois, because “I have to earn my living, you know.” But overall it’s a bit numbing, to peer so deeply into minds so clouded with paranoia and delusion.
This book is the true account of a clinical psychologist who engineered to have 3 men all with the delusion that they were Jesus on the same psychiatric ward at the same time.
In an act that I am sure would not be allowed by today's clinical practice guidelines, he ran group therapy sessions with just these three men and let them argue about who was the true savior.
It is very odd and unbelievable.
However, it is interesting if only from the perspective that we will most likely never be allowed the opportunity to have several people with the same but mutually exclusive delusion co-exist.
With the exception of Clyde, whose psychology is comparatively simple and childlike, and whose story makes up regrettably little of this book, these men believe themselves to be very many things, Jesus Christ and God included.Joseph Cassel, in addition to being the grown-up Christ Child, is an Englishman named John Michael Ernahue, and the real author of the works of Freud, H.G. Wells, Flaubert, and others.Leon Gabor is a jerboa rat, a Yeti, a hermaphrodite, a pile of dung, and a great many other things, both living and imaginary, sentient and nonsentient, as well as the Nazarite.These are early complications in Dr. Rokeach's experiments; treating three men who have taken on the identity of the son of God isn't so simple as locating the three men shuffling around with thorn crowns and then having them debate various principles of scripture.
The premise of the experiment was relatively simple - house the three men in the same ward, have them work together, and bring them together in daily meetings - initially guided by Rokeach and his assistants, but later to be run entirely by the inmates themselves.The book takes the form of an extended research report, with reports of what is done to the patients, and their reactions.
As Rokeach realises the initial confrontation is not going to help the men in any way, he then tries a different tack - of using positive role models for the men in an attempt to get them to change their behaviour.
Initially Leon does react to the letters in a positive way, doing the things that his "wife" asks of him.
What an unusual book - a medical write-up of a psychological experiment in the Michigan state asylum from the 1950s in which three individuals, each of whom believes themselves to be Jesus Christ, are forced to live together, eat together and cooperate.
The initial hope is that since there is only one God, the three men will have to reassess their delusional identities when faced with one another.
The details in this book are worth savoring - Rokeach is a great writer who presents the subjects as rational individuals capable of interweaving new social realities into their delusional fantasies.
And what might be the most deeply-held beliefs involve our identity, specifically who we are and how that makes us… well… US!So Rokeach gets the bright idea to find several patients with delusions of identity, and he manages to find three within the Michigan state hospital system that all think they’re Jesus Christ.
It’s from a different era, back during institutionalization when doctors had an almost unparalleled level of control over their patients and did things that would be unthinkable today.Would strongly recommend!
Interesting book.
What I liked most was the author's retrospective afterword written many years after the books initial publication.
He admits his own megalomaniac tendencies concerning the study.
Refers to himself as the fourth Christ in the study.
This book also provides some terrifying insight into the loose ethics of mental health treatment a few decades ago.
Writing letter to schizophrenic people claiming that you're their reincarnated blessed mother monkey wife was ok back then.
Read this if only for the very fact that it took place.
Take away from it a better understanding of just how subjective the term sane can be.
We read excerpts of this in my undergrad Abnormal Psych course, as well as watched some video clips. It's definitely worth a read--especially to see how the "Christs" acted around each other. Also, Ypsilanti is a tiny town, so having three patients with the same delusion is (pardon the pun) insane. This book was noteworthy because this was a once in a lifetime naturally occurring situation (in other words, "Christs" weren't flown in from other institutions to be studied together).
Three men think they're Jesus, two of them must be wrong. Want to know what would happen if three schizophrenics who each thinks he is Jesus are confronted with each other in a controlled setting? Answer: not much of interest. Though, IIRC, you do come to know these guys a bit. Ultimately, a sad little book.Would make a kickin' novel, though.
This book was like the Holy Grail after always hearing great things about it from various professors and friends. After years of searching (this was long before the Internet and Powells and whatnot) I came across it at a used book store. Was it worth all the hype? What is? Still an interesting experiment that would've made for a great 20/20 episode to watch.
the quirky condition of three paranoid schizophrenic would-be Christs serve as a vehicle to learn about the daily work of social psychologists in this book.
This book is a great way to witness how social psychologists study people and see their particular framework of the world put in action.
It used its position to argue that the withdrawal of government support for institutionalization, replaced by community-based mental health care, could trace direct lineage towards current proliferation of incarceration.
What they do have bearing on is how cautiously we should then impose them, which runs contrary to your suggestion of rashness.
If my Mom had been alive I would have purchased to for her, nevertheless, it was a chore to read it.Amazon: On July 1, 1959, at Ypsilanti State Hospital in Michigan, the social psychologist Milton Rokeach brought together three paranoid schizophrenics: Clyde Benson, an elderly farmer and alcoholic; Joseph Cassel, a failed writer who was institutionalized after increasingly violent behavior toward his family; and Leon Gabor, a college dropout and veteran of World War II.The men had one thing in common: each believed himself to be Jesus Christ.
Displaying the sympathy and subtlety of a gifted novelist, Rokeach draws us into the lives of three troubled and profoundly different men who find themselves “confronted with the ultimate contradiction conceivable for human beings: more than one person claiming the same identity.”-
The premise is more enticing than the promise.
The Three Christs of Ypsilanti is a psychology text first and foremost.
It's interesting that the text has an epiphany in the form of Milton Rokeach's afterword written 20 years after initial publication.
(You sort of read the whole thing for the last few pages.) Rokeach admits the follies of his methodology and finally sees that his part in the narrative, which he took pains to exclude, provides the truest takeaway for the reader.
The text ends, and what was interesting had little to do with three schizophrenics.
The title grabbed me on this one since I live in Ypsilanti. It's a classic, much-referenced case study of three paranoid-schizophrenic men who all claimed to be God/Christ who were patients at the Ypsilanti State Mental Hospital in 1959-1960. The book is quite outdated in terms of how we treat schizophrenia now - the idea of trying to do traditional Freudian psychotherapy with delusional patients seems ridiculous to most today. However, overall, I think it's still a worthy read, if outdated.
It's a little hard to escape the feeling that this entire experiment is ridiculous and unethical (as Rokeach himself seems to have grown to recognize). But in this case at least, terrible therapy made for great literature.
No puedo evitar pensar en este libro como la versión intelectual, académicamente sancionada, de los chistes que en otros tiempos se hacían sobre discapacitados.
Pero a costa de tres personas que no por nada estaban internadas en un psiquiátrico.
La intención de Rokeach, nos dice este, es terapéutica y científica, y no es ni lo uno ni lo otro.
Yo tenía muchas ganas de leer este libro, desde hace años, y ha supuesto una decepción por motivos extraliterarios.
En resumen, que cada uno saque sus propias conclusiones.
Some books you want to read for the premise. The idea of bringing together three paranoid schizophrenics who believe they are God is fascinating, but, I must admit, after a while their ravings start to sound too much like presidential addresses.
Not my cup of teaThis is a case study of three paranoid schizophrenic men. It is difficult to read, not just because they were so manipulated, but because it was so repetitive.
This book was like reading a case study. It was repetitive and could've been half as long. BORING!
Va be’ ma chi darebbe retta a un problema che non ho neanche capito bene cosa sia e per altro di pura estetica… ve l’ho già detto che non ci sono figure?Bene, magari c’è qualcuno non affetto da schizofrenia paranoide come me e i tre protagonisti del libro (di solito mi immedesimo molto) che è riuscito a leggere la storia senza farsi distrarre da inutili inestetismi.“La cronaca dellʼesperimento si legge tutta dʼun fiato, tra i misurati interventi di riflessione dello psichiatra e le irresistibili, e a volte geniali, dichiarazioni dei pazienti.
From 1959 to 1961, at Ypsilanti State Hospital in Michigan, social psychologist Milton Rokeach studied three paranoid schizophrenics who believed themselves to be Jesus Christ.
Just myself," Joseph said.--Are we all in agreement that there was just one Christ who was resurrected?--"By God Almighty, that is correct," Leon answered."I'm one--not you," said Clyde.
"There's something wrong with you.""I am the reincarnation of Jesus Christ of Nazareth," Leon said.
I believe the others are instrumental gods, the hollowed-out person who became a Jesus Christ through being hollowed out as such.""He is a rerise, he is a hick," Clyde said.
