https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596246.By_the_Great_Horn_Spoon_
My son had to read this when he was in 5th grade and I read it at the same time. We both loved this. I think it was one of the best books he had to read in elementary school. They were learning about the California gold rush and this was a great depiction of that time.
I don't know how on earth you can combine serious history with laugh-out-loud humor and make it work, but this book pulled it off!
The very last scene, which was 100% believable, was also the one that made me laugh hardest!
And I loved the way he and Jack kept giving away credit for their own ideas.
:)Jack's young-boy perspective on everything was perfect, as was the way he clung to and looked up to Praiseworthy in everything.
I'm still not quite sure why Praiseworthy approved the whole gold-hunting scheme in the first place, but everything worked out, so no real complaints.
I read this book in elementary school, and I remember it being one of the few required-reading books that I actually enjoyed.Side rant - I have such a love/hate relationship with required reading.
They always got in the way of the books I actually wanted to read.
End rant.Anyways, like I was saying, I liked this book.
It was really my first historical fiction novel, and it gave me more than a few moments of "Oh what's going to happen!?"I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend this book to anyone, but I definitely enjoyed it none-the-less.
Still a four...
I'm in awe of the author's masterful skill with clever and entertaining humor; flawless, complex plot; vivid, colorful, crisp writing; lifelike setting and characters; rich, realistic and natural historical detail; hilarious action sequences; and compelling, well-developed characters.
Jack and Praiseworthy are such an amazing duo of main characters, both individually and in their loyal partnership.
I first read it as a teen, and I reread it now as an adult, and I enjoyed it highly both times, as did my younger siblings in the target age group.By the Great Horn Spoon!
Amazing gold rush book!!!
Growing up in those days, television was full of cowboy series like Rawhide (with a very young Clint Eastwood), Bonanza, Gunsmoke and many more.
Moving into the seventies, the trend was for "pioneer" series like Little House on the Prairie and Grizzly Adams.
This book, written in 1963, fits nicely with that trend, and was one of the few my dyslexic brother bought and read voluntarily.
I remember reading it when he first got it from Scholastic Book Services, and I also remember the 1967 Disney film.

This book is pure nostalgia for me.
My aunt and I visited Sutter's Mill this New Year's on the way to Nevada City because she had never been before.
for a while now, and it just so happened to be sitting on a book shelf in the visitor center's gift shop-- Hurrah!The story.
A Boston boy named Jack and his butler Praiseworthy seek fortune in California when Jack's Aunt Arabella can't afford to keep up the family estate anymore.
Their journey is full of colorful characters, downright zany situations, plenty of educational knowledge, and many opportunities for Praiseworthy to save the day with his wits and nerve.
This was a funny, thoroughly enjoyable children's book about the California gold rush. It was educational in the most delightful way, where learning is "accidental" because it's just part of the story, and not because the author feels compelled to show he did a lot of research. My ten year old gives this five stars, and applauded at the end of the book.
His devotion to Arabella - and the reasons behind it - also give the entire story an unexpected emotional impact that I found very satisfying.For some strange reason, back in 2015 when I was reading 52 historical fiction novels in chronological order by setting, I chose Fleischman's Bandit's Moon instead of this book as my Gold Rush read.
It's an enjoyable film in its own right, but it deviates quite a bit from the book, changing Praiseworthy's name, making Arabella Jack's sister instead of his aunt, and adding more complicated plot points that increase the number of action scenes and change the entire ending of the book.
The movie was great, the book was great, the plot was great. And get this... everything was great
listened to the full cast audiobook with L&C ... great fun in the car! As soon as it was over C asked, “can you start it over from the beginning?!”
This historical fiction book is gripping and full of adventure! I loved the twists and turns that the characters took.
Listening to this audio in the car..krb 8/9/17Excellent book! Praiseworthy is one of those characters that inspires you to be a better person. I loved his attitude and ingenuity. Best book we've ever read about the gold rush, you really felt as if you were a part of it. This audio had many different actors for each character and was very well put together. Definitely a read again book...krb 8/18/17
By the Great Horn Spoon!
The nine-year-old liked this one when she read it for school.
A friend who is a children's librarian told me it's boring.
I agree with the librarian.
I tried this one earlier in the year and gave up after about seven pages.
I'm also not a fan of the representation of Chinese, Native American and Polynesian people in the book.
On one hand, I'm glad they were included but on the other hand no to stereotypical representation.
It's nothing unexpected from a book written in the 1960s, but disappointing all the same.
In "By the Great Horn Spoon!" it features a boy named Jack during the gold rush.
Jack is not by himself though, so with him is his butler named Praiseworthy.
Jack decides that it would be best to travel to California in order to gather a fortune from the gold, so he and Praiseworthy spend a little amount to board a ship.
Their journey is not as simple as Jack thought it would be, it included fighting criminals, and changing how they act and appear.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone that loves a little journey of unordinary people.
Read with Oliver and Anna for our reading/writing workshop. Made maps of the journey from Boston to San Francisco. Watched the movie based on the book: The Adventures of Bullwhip Griffin. Lots of freewrites, including "write a letter to the folks on the stagecoach you just robbed" (in the spirit of Black Bart). Another freewrite: focus on characterization (film vs. page) and use details to introduce a new character who shows up at the diggings. A great companion to The Game of Silence, as they take place one year apart in entirely different worlds within the USA.
I read it years ago and loved it. My brother is reading it now and I saw it in the living room. I'd thought of the book before but couldn't remember what it was called. !!Edit: Now I've reread the book and still loved it (uncommon for books I read from when I was little). The characters use cleverness and skill and seizing opportunity in order to accomplish their goals. Anything they gain by luck is balanced by unfortunate circumstances. The characters just refuse to give up and make the most of everything with honesty and integrity.
My other favorite book to share with my fourth grade students! The adventures of Jack and Praiseworthy help solidify my students' understanding of the various routes to California, and the struggles and triumphs that the travelers faced. I look forward to it every year. It is a bit difficult to begin, as the action takes a while to build. I find myself convincing some students to stick with it. But it only takes a short time before they are hooked, and begging to read "just one more" chapter each day. I look forward to reading this every year.
Keeping in mind that this book is intended for a younger audience, I really enjoyed it! The characters are humorous and fun. The vocabulary is definitely sometimes above a 4th grade level, and there are multiple characters to keep track of, but this is a great way to teach children about the California Gold Rush! Much more fun and memorable than reading an old text book. I'd definitely recommend to the 4th grade crowd, or anyone interested in a fun way of learning more about the Gold Rush.
Cute story. Read it with my 4th graders. The protagonist is a young boy to sets out on an adventure to both satisfy his curiosity and help his bankrupt aunt. Great description of the Gold Rush, including the trip around South America that many from the East Coast took to get to California. Disney also made a movie based on the book called "The Adventures of Bullwhip Griffin" (1967). My students enjoyed watching the movie as an end-of-year treat.
My song really liked the Whipping Boy, and my co-worker said she just read this one and loved it. I totally dug it, and so did my son. He's usually more a knights and castles kind of kid, but the mining/cowboy aspect of this book really captured his imagination. Praiseworthy aka Bullwhip and Jack or "jamocha jack" were both so endearing and their little adventures were such fun. This is such a sweet little adventure.
Wonderful. Just wonderful. Sophia and I both loved this book and just finished a marathon reading session because we couldn't put it down. The writing was witty, the characters were clever and lovable, and we were on the edge of our seats to see how it would end right up until the last page. Highly recommend this as a read aloud.
Rollicking fun read-aloud filled with adventure. This book kept my kids begging for "more!" A great way to study history and learn about the California Gold Rush of '49. The main character, Praiseworthy, certainly lived up to his name. He was honest, responsible, resourceful, intelligent, and brave. I highly recommend, especially for boys.
Because California's fourth grade social studies standards focus on the state's history this has become a go-to novel for literature studies. That's a shame as this novel is a yawner, so dull I fear it may turn students off to both reading and history. With so many terrific books out there why use a mind-number simply because it has become the precedent?
Good old Sid Fleischman. I almost never like books (or movies) about the frontier, the Old West, etc. This book is so much fun though--basically a Jeeves and Wooster story for American kids, only without Wooster.
I did not like this book when I read it in fourth grade. It was boring and I was tired of hearing about boring gold miner people. It seemed like a repeat of every single California immigrant gold miners story I read. Overall, I did not enjoy it.
This book is about a 12 year old boy and his butler who have an adventure together. They sail to California from Boston for the California gold rush in the 1800's. It is a cute book with some interesting illustrations. It made me smile.
I wasn't sure I cared to read this book but from the first chapter I was hooked. Our entire family was sad to say goodbye when we finished. Highly recommended!!!!
