https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73291.Eyewitness_Auschwitz
And then you have Filip, a prisoner, who with chained hands was forced to help turn the cogs for a time.
Only a few, of which this is one, have I had to stop several times, close its covers and cover my face and simply weep.
In it's sheer power of catacylsmic emotion it is not surpassed, but for me the point is not simply to read for information sake or even a shock factor: it is the depth of Filip's emotional and spiritual suffering which binds the reader to the writer.
I've never read anything quite like it.
I wouldn't say I enjoyed this book as such - I don't think one is supposed to say they enjoy reading this kind of thing - but this was a very insightful - and graphic - account of what life was like in the death camps of what the Nazi's dubbed 'The Final Solution'.I'd recommend this book to anyone who is interested in reading about the Holocaust. In fact, I think everyone should read this so that this awful stain on human history is never forgotten and more so that this is never allowed to happen again.
I’ve read many Holocaust memoirs, all of them terrible, heart-breaking and shocking in their own way, but Eyewitness Auschwitz stands out for several other reasons.It is the story of Filip Muller, who spent more than two years in Auschwitz, and saw some of the worst things that human beings can do to each other – he worked in the gas chambers as a Sonderkommando – responsible for the cremation of thousands and thousands of his fellow Jews.What makes Eyewitness Auschwitz particularly unique is Filip’s focus – there is very little about his life before World War II, how he came to be in Auschwitz and he tells his story in a rather unemotional way.
Fillip Muller was a Slovakian jew who was transported to Auschwitz like millions of others who dreamt their lives may become better by moving on to a new place that was promised as bring a better future for all of them.
It was too much to take in sometimes.I am glad that I read this book because it is a necessary chapter in history that all of us SHOULD know and also getting to see the strength and will of some people at the face of adversity and horrible circumstances was simply..
I still struggle to understand why all these people had to be killed.
It is a painful story that has to be read (and if possible, seen through a visit to Auschwitz,) to believe.
A gripping account the struggles of Jews and prisoners in the camp and an insight into the lives of the Sonderkommandos, the prisoners who worked these crematoriums, Eyewitness Auschwitz is a must read for everyone.
Puts a lot of things in perspective and might just nudge us to appreciate our present conditions and situation and live a better and peaceful life.
I've mentioned this many times -- I like to read Holocaust and WWII memoirs because they show the beauty of man overcoming the ugly.Well, this book is indeed about the ugly -- the ugliest I've ever read.This is an unprecedented memoir of a man who ends up being a prisoner at Aushwitz as a crematorium worker.
He explains the trickery the SS used, implementing the crematorium workers to fool the prisoners into thinking they really WERE going to have a shower and return to get their clothes back.
The one thought that kept racing through my mind as I read was, "What is it like to know that you are going to die in one of the most inhumane ways possible?" The overwhelming sense of dread and disbelief I felt every time a group of people were led into the changing room is nothing compared to what those people must have felt, going to their death naked, herded like cattle, then pillaged for everything of value, right down to their gold teeth and the women's long hair, and then burnt, the ashes dumped into a nearby river.Even though this book is graphic and unsettling (a major understatement, I know), I feel that it is an important book to read and reflect upon.
This is not the most well-written WWII/Holocaust memoir, but it may be the most powerful.
Its power lies in just how mundane Filip makes it all sound.
Day after day after day of doing the same horrific thing - killing thousands of people, removing their hair, gold teeth and clothes, and incinerating them.
We all have read about how people were led into the gas chambers - about how they were told "go take a shower"; about the staggering numbers of people killed; what you don't realize is the sheer scale of it all - how the killing occurred nightly, and the ovens ran non-stop.
The sheer scale of it all.
I was stuck in the horror with a broken heart of the reality of this part in our world's history.Three stars because it feels wrong give a higher rating to a story that exists only because of the devastation caused by Hitler's insane evil.
But these kinds of books should be read and digested so that history does not repeat itself.
Many of us live a charmed life in safety and without the threat or reality of persecution.
This book is a well-told story and will horrify you.
I haven't read this book in at least 10 years, but it has always stuck with me. I've recommended it to numerous people. I don't feel I can say too much here since it's been so long since I've read it, but I want to urge others to experience Filip Muller's story for themselves. It is a real eye opener. Although it will haunt you, I think it's important that the atrocities of the Nazi regime are not forgotten so they are not repeated.
I was reading this on the train to work, and I had to snap the book shut because I very nearly just started crying at one part. It's hard to wrap your mind around the fact that this actually happened, that people could do this to another human being, that Filip survived and was able to pen this. (Not so much 'loved it', but star rating relates to importance and relevance.)
My dad and I share a huge interest in the Holocaust and world war two so I've read pretty much every book on it that I've been able to get my hands on.This without a doubt is the most detailed and hard hitting one I have come across. It was so horrific that I had to stop reading several times because I became so distraught.A very good read but an extrememly dark one.
If you are interested in the Holocaust, you must read this book. The author worked in the crematoria at Auschwitz for three years and survived. What he saw and experienced is beyond description.
This testimony offers in gruesome detail an eyewitness account of what actually happened in the gas chambers: from the moment hundreds of thousands of Auschwitz prisoners arrived hungry, thirsty and terrified on cattle trains; to the separation of families and the selection process; to the brutal beatings and threats by SS officers; to the lies intended to induce prisoners to think that they were about to be “disinfected” in public showers rather than killed; to the sadistic torture of some; to the gassing of the terrified victims and the desecration and pillaging of corpses, and finally to their cremation by fellow prisoners condemned to the Sonderkommandos: prisoners like Filip Muller.
Admittedly intended as an eyewitness history of the unconscionable detailed workings of an evil regime, it forms part of the historical evidence that as a consequence sets a benchmark for the definition of 'evil' as we have come to know it, and in doing so has moulded our collective consciousness of 'good' and 'bad' in the modern day post war world.
Muller's account will also remain solid as its testament, but I fear it does not do it justice.
To understand what I refer to one must read another's eyewitness account; that of Pimo Levi, 'If This Is The Man'.
In one of the most horribly upsetting accounts of the Holocaust, Filip Muller details his 3 years in Auschwitz as a Sonderkomando when he had to help to cover up evidence of the Nazi war atrocities against the Jews.
To start, Eyewitness Auschwitz is one of the most deeply upsetting and horrifying accounts of Nazi war crimes that I have ever read.
In this hideous but unique position, Muller is able to give us full accounts of the victims who otherwise would have been forgotten, given that the Nazis tried to destroy all evidence of their monstrous crimes.
“Eyewitness Auschwitz: Three Years in the Gas Chambers” is a brutal and frank memoir from Sonderkommando survivor Filip Müller.
But all one must do is read the many other memoirs and accounts from the dozens of people who have written of their Auschwitz-Birkenau experience, and you can see clearly plenty of corroborating stories down to details that could be known only to those who witnessed them.
This is a hard book to recommend, but the brutish force of wickedness applied must be witnessed in order that we do not grow complacent or live in denial.
Denial is no hope, we must read these terrible books lest we remain ignorant of the nature of man.
Eyewitness Auschwitz,Three Years in the Gas ChambersWritten By: Filip MullerPublished by Ivan R Dee, Chicago, 1st Ed. By this Publisher, Published in Association with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, 1999, paperback, 180 pages.“Eyewitness Auschwitz is an exceptionally graphic, in-depth and carefully recounted description of Filip Muller’s improbable three-year survival in the Gas Chambers of Auschwitz, one of the most infamous Nazi Extermination Camps”BCMFilip Muller was born in Sered, Czechoslovakia in 1922.
Singing their national anthem they were saying a last farewell to their breif but flourishing past, a past which had enabled them to live for twenty years in a democratic state, a respected minority enjoying equal rights.
And when they sang 'Hatikvah', now the national anthem of the state of Israel, they were glancing into the future, but it was a future which they would not be allowed to see."(A girl talking to the author in the gas chambers) "We must die, but you still have a chance to save your life.
As far as I know, he and Shlomo Venezia ("Inside the Gas Chambers") are the only two of the few Sonder to cheat death who went on to treat these horrors at book-length.Nor does one have to look far to discover the toll those three years took on the poor man.
It bore the imprint of the gas chamber still, eyes haunted by images that after 35 years were clearly as fresh as on the day he had the misfortune to see them.For a small taste of them yourself, I recommend Eyewitness Auschwitz, not only as a unique read but, given the genocides continuing to surface today, as a cautionary tale.
Clearly, Filip has been greatly affected by his experiences, but I suspect there was a large part of him that had to switch off for his own sake meaning you get a fact-based account rather than a book that may come across as containing hyperbole if effervescent language was spewn throughout.I personally believe that books like this should be required reading.
Couple that with the fact that we almost owe it to those poor, doomed souls whose time on this earth was wiped so cruelly and mercilessly, it is the least we can do.I plan on visiting Auschwitz this year and am positive this book will make that experience even more worthwhile.
Muller' s account , like Dr Nyiszlis eyewitness account of the atrocities that were enacted in this place are graphic, horrific and traumatic.
Not sure I would recommend unless you have a specifuc interest in the subject matter as it does not make pleasant reading.
That of a surviving Sonderkommando who can bear witness to events that had they been recorded in a work of fiction would be hard to believe .
I recommend that you read alongside the eyewitness account of Dr Miklos Nyiszli who also survived and who also worked in the crematoria.
An excruciatingly tough read, that I hesitate to say that I "liked." But that goes for any book that delves into horrors of the Holocaust, particularly so for works like this one that are told by the people who lived through it.
After a visit to Auschwitz I wanted to read many more books on the subject.
This one is chock full of information, all very true if the many various accounts are to be trusted.
But there is no way in hell one Jewish prisoner was present at every single major event that occurred at Auschwitz and lived through selections for 4 years.
If this had been written as historical fiction it would have been great but for the guy to try to pass it off (and too often get away with it) as true is beyond comprehension.
It is a travesty and I'm sorry I every bought this book.
After a visit to Auschwitz I wanted to read many more books on the subject.
This one is chock full of information, all very true if the many various accounts are to be trusted.
But there is no way in hell one Jewish prisoner was present at every single major event that occurred at Auschwitz and lived through selections for 4 years.
If this had been written as historical fiction it would have been great but for the guy to try to pass it off (and too often get away with it) as true is beyond comprehension.
It is a travesty and I'm sorry I every bought this book.
Well written.
Brace yourself and have a gut of steel to delve into one of histories goriest chapters.
Muller vividly captures the horrifying and macabre details of the horrors he was subjected and witness to.
However, just a thought lingers in my mind - Muller himself says that the inmates were compartmentalized and no one had access to all parts of the camp, especially the extermination part.
But then Muller seems to spring up everywhere.
So I feel maybe not all incidents were eyewitness, some of them could be second hand accounts.
Just finished this book. This is a very rare account of a member of the Sonderkommando in Auschwitz. There were routine selections of members of the Sonderkommando so no one would know too much as a witness. Somehow Filip escaped numerous selections and lived to tell of so many of the lives lost in Auschwitz. Very powerful read. It is completely heartbreaking reading of children scared clinging to their parents. As a Mom it is so hard to know that suffering. The only thing I was disappointed with is there's not much info about Filip's life after the war.
This book was painful, powerful, horrifying, educational, and compelling. It's not an easy read at all, but it's an important read. The first person descriptions of what happened at the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz was shattering to read, and nearly impossible to comprehend that people could come to such a place.
This is the memoire of one of the few surviving members of the Sondercommando from Auchwitz. The Sondercommando were the workers who did the dirty work in the industrialised death factories. The book tells in distressing detail how the camps worked and the inhumane "work" that the author was forced to carry out. It is an important historical record of terrible times.
It’s an intoxicating read. I finished it within a day and even forewent sleep in order to finish it. I do question the validity of the claims written just because one could only be so lucky to survive for so long in such an environment.
