https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111593.Poetry_and_Prose
There's no Romantic I adore as much as Shelley. I can't wait to read Richard Holmes' Shelley The Pursuit and get a little more acquainted with the Shelley mythology. This Norton edition of his writings has a good deal of introductory material before each piece, and is a worthy biographical study in its own right. I can't imagine a more complete edition of his works. Essential.
Top picks include Mont Blanc, Hymn to Intellectual Beauty, Ozymandias, Adonais, The Cloud, and Ode to the West Wind.Mont Blanc:The everlasting universe of things Flows through the mind, and rolls its rapid waves, Now dark - now glittering- now reflecting gloom - Now lending splendour, where from secret springs The source of human thought its tribute brings Of waters, - with a sound but half its own....Far, far above, piercing the infinite sky, Mont Blanc appears, still, snowy, and serene....The secret strength of things Which governs thought, and to the infinite dome Of heaven is as a law, inhabits thee!
Shelley’s influence as a Romantic poet on subsequent generations is evident in the many phrases and images that survive in our collective consciousness even today: His Sky-Lark with its “rain of melody,” His West Wind sweeping away the “Yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red” leaves, Ozymandias’s “sneer of cold command” and his echoing statement “Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!” His style is exuberant and at times bombastic, and he seems to impose on his readers his boundless and insatiable youthful energy inherent in the young and the young at heart.
Love, Love Shelley. I reread daily!
O Wind! I fall upon the thorns of life! I bleed!You had me at "O Wild West Wind!"
Need I say more?Prometheus Unbound is written in a highly complex style – dense, convoluted, expansive and ornate.
The poem appears to be Shelley’s Paradise – a vision of a positive future, a tract on what the world could be if we but freed ourselves from the shackles of tyrants.
Shelley’s Paradise seems to be just an highly ornate heaven.
This not a play, though written as one.
It’s meant to dazzle with rich language and exotic setting and song – to present a vision of the world as it could be.Granted that unique format, the poem/pageant still seems a failure.
The book that began science fiction, it reeks of a tragedy too perfectly concocted to fully capture in a quarter-page book journal entry.
I love every character in this book for what they bring to it, and it is one of the few books I can read effortlessly, even though it contains almost no dialogue.
Perhaps my love for it has something to do with the fact that it was the first novel that I ever taught at the high-school level, but I think that the story and the thematic questions the book raises make me enjoy it for all the more reasons.
However, I was disappointed with all other aspacts of his work.First of all, his longer poems seem to either go in circles or have a rather chaotic line of thought.Secondly, whenever he puts in a theme, message, etc.
they will often contradict one another.Lastly, at times one has to put a lot into understanding the simplest words because of how many different ways Shelley will not only fit them to his own way of thinking, but also use them the usual way as well.In the end, I have no way of knowing what others will think of it, but I personally found it difficult to push my way through his odd line of thought.
Shelley always brings me back to the truth about myself. I am glad to have re-read his work. I want to write a book about him one day, but it's not now. His poems have reminded me of what I need to do. Shelley was a true visionary, like Rimbaud, like Goethe, like Milton. He lived his work. I want to do that.
I'm rating the edition, not the poems. First, there's no introduction so it' hard to situate the poet and the work (in total)....good critical stuff at the end....helpful introductions to many of the individual poems....good footnotes.... now I know what a camel-leopard is so thanks.
Reading Queen Mab at the moment. Had to do some background research into Edmund Spencer's "Faery Queen." I'm finding significant parallels with Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in both works. This is my intial impression.
I am okay with Shelley. I understand for the most part what he's trying to do and his insolence is kind of charming. But, his poetry style is far too dramatic to be enjoyable and it's difficult to break down the meaning between his lines, which is what I'm used to doing in poetry.
Hands down, the best edition of his selected works one can own. He was a writer not much appreciated in his time but the years have been kinder to him. I am truly enamoured of his writings, esp. 'Mont Blanc'. You cannot go wrong with much contained here.
Shelley is the quintessential Romantic. I first became interested in his poetry as a high school senior, and he has remained one of my favorite poets. This is an excellent collection, including Shelley's famous Defense of Poetry.
A nice collection of Shelley's works.
Shelley's letters & prose are more interesting to me that his poems, which are sometimes very very good, in and of themselves.
The place to start for romance poetry, pity Shelly died so young, he may have extended the movement and taken the march away from the Victorians.
Whenever I'm feeling restless, Shelley is one of my refuges in poetry.
read together with John Milton's Paradise Lost.
can't abide him sorry no matter how fine i see he might be
Shelley is certainly a very interesting character, and this is evident in his writings. Although some of his poems can be a bit strange and overwrought, he was a very talented poet.
who can sell this book to me its original thanks and regards
One of the biggies, along with Keats and Byron.
This book contains one of my all time favorite poems: Ozymandias.
Sure, Shelley is a great poet, but I've always found him a bit... tame.
I love Shelley. He's kind of full of himself sometimes, but he's still fascinating.
Read this many years ago in jr high and loved it. Shelley is by far a very favorite poet of mine. I need to find a new copy of this for myself and re-read, the copy I read was my moms.
Going to read Prometheus Unbound for now...
