https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30226698-the-trapped-girl
This is the fourth in the excellent Tracy Crosswhite series set in Seattle.
This brings in Tracy and her team on this opaque and difficult case.
This does not get the team far as it then becomes clear this is a false trail and that it is Andrea Strickland, a bookish insurance agent.
Andrea's disappearance whilst on Mount Rainier with her husband Graham, led to conclusions that she had died.
And soon enough developments bring it back to the Seattle team.
What makes this series so strong is the character driven stories.
The police team are a strong unit with people you care for.
And it leaves some deeply embeddened footprints.An early morning jump from an illegal point of entry into Puget Sound leaves a young man with a shocking catch in his crab pot.
And there will be a mad tango of foot placement within police jurisdiction here.We are introduced to Andrea Strickland, an insurance agent, existing within the limited walls of her small cubical.
Andrea's voice is found within the pages of her journal.
Right?Robert Dugoni presents another stellar Tracy Crosswhite mystery.
No one does police procedurals like Dugoni.
That mad tango foot placement is accompanied by some loud, crashing music.
5 Stars for The Trapped Girl the 4th installment of Robert Dugong's amazing Tracy Crosswhite series!
This is my favorite book of the series to date.
What I enjoyed most about this installment in the series was the character development.
Dugoni has such an amazing cast of characters in this series!I have grown to love this series & these characters.
Dugoni does an amazing job of weaving an engaging roller coaster plot that keeps you guessing while also really building on the back story of his main characters.
First and foremost, a large thank you to NetGalley, Robert Dugoni, and Thomas & Mercer for providing me with a copy of this book, which allows me to provide you with this review.In another impressive addition to his latest series, Dugoni places Detective Tracy Crosswhite in her most confounding case to date.
In a thrilling fourth novel in the series, Dugoni shows why he is the master of his genre, pulling readers in until the final sentence.While this series has been sensational from the get-go, Dugoni always seems to be able to tap into something new that allows series fans to feel refreshed and left wondering what is yet to come.
This is my second Robert Dugoni book in a row.
Previously I read In the Clearing, (Tracy Crosswhite #3), and I have to say I was pleasantly surprised and enjoyed The Trapped Girl far more.The Trapped Girl is more tautly written; there is more suspense, more surprises, more of those delicious 'oh, I can't bear to put this down' moments, particularly in the second half of the book.
I have been a long time fan of the sassy and bad ass detective Crosswhite.
This is the 4th book in the series.
I would have to say this is my least favorite book out of the series.
I love Tracy and her team!!!
Don't get me wrong I am a strong and avid fan of this series but I enjoyed some of the previous books in the series more.
BUT, can I just say OMG do I love Tracy and Dan!
I am looking forward to reading the 5th book to the series :).
The e-galley of The Trapped Girl to be published January 24, 2017, was generously provided by Netgalley, Author, Robert Dugoni and publisher, Thomas & Mercer for my honest review.The Trapped Girl,  the fourth in the Tracy Crosswhite Series could easily be read as a standalone but you’d miss the subtle development of character by not starting with book one.
There are clues throughout if you pay close attention and though I wasn’t as crackerjack with my conclusions as Crosswhite, I played detective quite well.Though there is a woman gone missing intriguingly on Mount Rainier, I missed what I already saw as a trademark of this series, the cold case.
[Later...OK, I'm done.]This book is the latest in Robert Dugoni's Tracy Crosswhite series, and a wonderful addition it is.
That was the only search I did, because Dugoni's descriptions of Mt. Rainier, Puget Sound, and other environs put me right in the scene.Tracy and her crew are working a case involving a body in a crab pot pulled up by an unsuspecting teenager.
Was there not enough good-natured banter between Tracy and Kins?
Was Tracy written just a bit softer or weaker than before?I did enjoy this book and I'm looking forward to the next one in the series, due out later this year.
Autopsy results and initial investigation queries reveal that the victim may have been on the run.But what starts out looking like a straightforward case of marital discord gone extremely wrong proves to have more puzzles and twists than one could ever imagine.
It’s like Tracy and the Three Musketeers – all for one and one for all – especially when it comes to pleading their case to their captain, Johnny Nolasco, who always seems to be looking to catch his female detective making a misstep.
Just when I thought I had a handle on who the victim was – well – maybe not.
I have read the previous books in the Tracy Crosswhite Series: My Sister's Grave (#1)Her Final Breath (#2)In the Clearing (#3)(I plan to read the 5th book in the series-Close To Home)I have always enjoyed reading his books, and this one is no exception…again another winner!Tracy is a detective in Seattle PD's Violent Crimes Section and she and her team are assigned to investigate an intricate case-a woman's body is recovered from a crab pot in the waters of Puget Sound.
I was trapped from the beginning and had to find out who the woman was that was found in the crab pot!Tracy and the A Team, the nickname given to her detective crew are working on a case involving a dead body found in a crab pot.
She’s had a tough life growing up and it’s about to get worse.Development of the characters involved with Tracy and the A Team was great!
The writing in the book was a nice balance of showing all of the A Team’s personal lives along with the plot of the murder case.Dugoni is quickly becoming one of my favorite go-to authors.
3.5 stars In this 4th book in the 'Tracy Crosswhite' series, the detective investigates two mysterious deaths.
However implants from facial surgery lead the detectives to identify her as Andrea Strickland, a woman who disappeared months before while climbing Mount Rainier with her husband Graham.
Since Mount Rainier is in Pierce County, the missing woman case was investigated by Detective Stan Fields from that region.
So when Andrea's body turns up in Puget Sound months later, Fields - angry that Andrea might have committed insurance fraud or other hijinks - demands the case back.
I finished the book about an hour ago and it's still on my brain, working out all the twists and turns it took.
The body is a woman, and she hasn't been down there long, likely only a few days.
They soon believe the body is a woman that disappeared several months ago while climbing a mountain with her husband...
We see some chapters from the perspective of Andrea, the woman who was thought to have perished on the mountain.
Haunted by memories of her sister who died much too young, Tracy has a special attachment to this case.
This one’s writing is a little zippier.
The premise is a dead body turning up in a crab pot in Puget Sound.
The dead woman is a “ghost”, a person deliberately living off the radar.
The story alternates between Tracy’s murder investigation and the background of Andrea Strickland, a “cubicle worker” who marries a man she barely knows.
Additional murders follow and Dugoni does a good job of showing the confusion and mess created when they occur in different jurisdictions.
The ending was a little unbelievable, but it was still a good tale.
The real strength of the book is the character development.
A young man poaching finds a woman’s body in a crab pot in the chilly waters of Puget Sound and Detective Tracy Crosswhite is asked to investigate the case. They cannot identify the woman and as they follow the leads it appears it may be a woman that faked her own death to escape an unhappy marriage. This death brings up Tracy’s own sister’s death. Now there have been contradictory clues as to who this woman may really be. Great read. I would like to thank the Publisher and Net Galley for the chance to read this ARC.
I polished it off over the course of two days - not an easy feat when you've got a part-time job and a husband who could burn water if given half a chance (put another way, unless we eat out, dinner is on me).Crosswhite, for those who don't already know, works at the Seattle Police Department's Violent Crimes Section and partners with Kinsington Rowe, aka Kins.
Failure to nail down what really happened and find the killer reminds Tracy of her own sister's murder, prompting her to keep plugging away when the going gets especially tough.For those who already love this series, there's a downside; this latest installment isn't scheduled for release till January 24, 2017.
4.5 starsThe Trapped Girl is the fourth in a series by Robert Dugoni about a detective with Seattle’s Violent Crimes Section named Tracy Crosswhite.
Initially, the victim is identified as Lynn Hoff, but quickly the team realizes that it may in fact be Andrea Strickland, an insurance agent who went missing on Mt. Ranier months previously while hiking with her husband.
The plot takes Tracy from Mt. Ranier to Oregon in her quest to solve the identity of the dead woman and how she met her demise.
Dugoni also perfectly balances writing about the mystery plot line and Tracy’s personal life which makes the book such a great read.
The Trapped Girl is a great addition to the series which is shaping up to be on par with C.J. Box's Joe Pickett series.A teenager finds a body in his illegally placed crabbing pot in Puget Sound.
Identification of the women's body lead Whitecross and her Seattle homicide squad on search for the true identity of the woman, with lots of twists and turns.
One of the best things about the book is the clues are all there for you to solve the crime with Whitecross.
Thank you NetGalley and Thomas & Mercer for the opportunity to review this book.
This review was originally posted on The Pfaeffle Journal
We got to see a bit of the detective's softer side in this one and it was good to see her have some happy moments, especially as it meant that there was a lot of self reflection about the bad stuff she's been though.The best bit for me was that Dugoni changed the format again, each book so far involving a very different style of investigation.
It ensures the whole things stays fresh and fun, never falling into the tick box style of some series.Many thanks to Robert Dugoni, Thomas & Mercer, and Netgalley for the chance to read this in exchange for an honest review.
Great, captivating story.Good exciting plot and characters. Their backgrounds clearly written, you know them well. Story is about missing Andrea Strickland, Tracy is assigned to find out what happened. She has a half a million trust fund, abusive controlling husband and she is a reader. During the investigation her girlfriend goes missing too. Many twists and squabbles between the two police departments.Can't wait for the next book in this series, congratulations Tracy.
In the present Tracy & her team have little to go on & what they do find doesn’t seem to fit.
Just when you think you know where it’s going, another twist gets thrown out & the story heads off in a new direction.
It’s an intricate plot where there are few winners & Tracy has to resort to some creative detecting to get the job done.
It’s the kind of book where it’s important you don’t know too much ahead of time to fully appreciate the twists so that’s all I’ll say about the story.
This is the thrilling fourth novel in the Tracy Crosswhite series.
Identification initially proves difficult, but some clues lead Tracy and her team to believe they have discovered Andrea Strickland, who disappeared after climbing Liberty Ridge in Mount Rainier National Park with her husband Graham, a sleazy lawyer.
The story alternates between providing the reader with first-person POV background on Andrea Strickland and Tracy's investigation.
Twists and turns galore combined with taut writing, enjoyable dialogue, and solid characterization - not only of the main players but the entire team behind Tracy - made this another compelling read in this series.
This is a well-plotted Seattle-set mystery, fourth in the Tracey Crosswhite series. It opens with a great crab-catching scene. Dugoni has said he wanted to write a mystery with Mount Rainier as a setting and this book delivers. He also weaves in a ripped-from-the-headlines subplot about the business of selling marijuana--a business that turns out to be surprisingly competitive.Most of all, Dugoni creates great empathy, with just the right curl of suspicion, about the title character of the book.Okay, publishers, enough already with the diminutive of 'girl' in book titles. Authors are writing about capable, interesting, and experienced women.
As Tracy begins to uncover a twisted tale of brutal betrayal and desperate greed, she’ll find herself risking everything to confront a killer who won’t go down without a deadly fight.This is my first novel/book from New York Times bestselling author Robert Dugoni and here he delivers a taut, riveting thriller in the fourth installment of his acclaimed Tracy Crosswhite series, although my first book from this author and my first Tracey Crosswhite I loved this character and all her team.Robert Dugoni, has a collection of powerful, strong characters that make this book so much better, with a very clever plot that has you thinking all the way and shocks you where it does go in the end.The story was very interesting with a plot that really could lead anywhere.
This is the fourth book in the Tracy Crosswhite series but my first read of the series.
After reading and loving one of Mr Dugonis previous novels - The 7th Canon, the publisher kindly sent me a copy of this one for review.
It's a multi layered story with lots of twists and turns and is better read with knowing as little about the story as you can going in.
Maybe Dugonis writing style suits me down to the ground as it's the second novel I have read by him this year and I have given both five star reviews.
THE TRAPPED GIRL is the fourth book in Tracy Crosswhite series and in this book she has to find out the identity of a girl found dead in a crab pot, and also find the person who has put the girl there. It's not an easy case and when the evidence points to this being a woman that disappeared a couple of months ago is Tracy reminded of her own sister's disappearance and murder.READ THE REST OF THE REVIEW OVER AT FRESH FICTION!
Tracey Crosswhite is called in to look at the case.
This case brings back bad memories for Tracey as years ago her sister was murdered and she is moved by this woman's death.
This is the fourth book in the Tracey Crosswhite series and to me the best.
Robert Dugoni is one of my favourite authors, his books wrap you up and take you for a ride while keeping you guessing which just increases the intrigue.
Thank you to Netgalley, the author and publisher for the chance to read this book in exchange for an honest review.
Gripping!More than good -> excellent! Such a twisted and well written mystery!Love Tracy! A real strong and smart woman!Interesting and likable side characters (except for asshole Nolasco), great hero.
A good fast read. Would recommend.
The 4th book in the Tracy Crosswhite series begins with teenager Kurt Schill pulling in his crab pot while doing a little illegal crabbing and discovering a woman's body instead.
However implants from facial surgery lead them to identify her as Andrea Strickland, a woman who disappeared while climbing Mount Rainier with her husband Graham.This sets up a turf war with Pierce County which is where Mount Rainier is located.
There are plenty of twists and turns in this story and the reader can rest assured that Tracy gets the case back.The story alternates between the story of the investigation into the death of the woman found in the crab pot and Andrea 's story.
