https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136636.Thunderhead
It was a griping read from the last 1/4 until the end.
I’ve always enjoyed archaeology and the journey to explore hidden places, cultures and religions.
It felt very much like reading a Indiana Jones book.
This book felt more like a thriller with adventure, action and suspense thrown in.
I really enjoyed reading about the Anasazi culture, traditions and superstitions.
This book had a great plot, excellent scientific material thrown in and wonderful characters.I just love the combo writing of Preston and Childs.
I'm looking forward to reading all of their books now!
Amazing! Preston & Child do it again. This book is soooooo good from page one until the very end. Excitement, suspense, mystery, gore, betrayal, etc. it's all there and there is a lot of it! Also, it is obvious that they put so much research into their books - but the history parts of it are not dry, they just make it more intriguing! Note: This is not a Pendergast novel, but it falls between Reliquary and Cabinet of Curiosities.If you like a great story with great mystery and some scares and gore, bring an umbrella for the Thunderhead!
I’m not a habitual reader of them in part because they often ask for that same suspension of disbelief, but do so in an environment where science and facts take center stage as various plot machinations unfold.Case in point: Thunderhead, in which archaeological techniques and satellite mapping tools are meticulously described and deployed, but wherein characters seem to be generally unconcerned that someone has (view spoiler)[MURDERED THEIR HORSES BY CUTTING OUT THEIR ENTRAILS AND ARRANGING THEM INTO LOVELY SHAPES as well as DOING THE SAME THING TO ONE OF THEIR HUMAN COMPANIONS (hide spoiler)].
Wow, what a book. Truly fascinating and captivating. The story was well layered slowly unearthing bits and pieces (pun intended?). I can’t get enough of these authors and looking forward to reading more of their works, highly recommend to pretty much everyone.
This is the first Preston/Child book I read. After reading this, I have devoured every single one of their books since. It crackles with intelligence and suspense. It is extremely addictive and the setting is by far one of the most interesting and memorable, practically a character in and of itself. A must read. Plus they continue characters throughout their books, not all at once, but here and there. Smithback and Nora in particular from this book. I loved it!
4.25 StarsThis book's writing style is just right for a movie script with its hodgepodge of bizarre characters and fierce adventurous pace.Authors Preston and Child weave a story around modern archeological theories about the Anasazi, a lost tribe of American Indians, and instill it with characters determined to prove their own differing theories on what really happened to their lost city of treasures.The adventure soars as our heroine Nora Kelly’s expedition treks into the bleak and impassable canyon country beyond the Kaiparowits Plateau in Arizona.
For me the allure of Thunderhead lies in the appeal of unearthing ancient mysteries, and in the way the land is almost an additional character.
This book took first prize gloriously.Patraic Kelly, an archaeologist had gone missing sixteen years ago while in search of the ancient, lost city of Quivira.
Hundreds of years ago, some explorers claimed that Quivira was the largest and wealthiest Indian site in all of North America.
In it, he claimed he found the lost city of Quivira.
What did all that mean, she wondered?She convinced the head of the Institute, Dr. Goddard, to organize an expedition for the lost city.
It consisted of eight members, each contributing their own area of expertise to the mission.With clear skies, the expedition got underway, the only way possible, on horseback.
This book was my introduction to the brilliant writing duo of Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. THUNDERHEAD is stellar read full of adventure, science, magic, and history. Highly recommended!
What a fun thrill ride in this one, filled with lots of action, great characters and a well-researched and interesting storyline.
This was a straight up adventure novel with the details of the expedition exceptionally well drawn and the characters all contributing to the realistic atmosphere of life on the trail.
This story doesn't require as much of a suspension of disbelief as the other books of theirs that I have read.
I am continually impressed by how well they build suspense prior to the opening of each door in Santa Fe or the passing of each concealed or dangerous area along the trail.
It reminded me of all the adventure stories I read as young teenager, immersing me in the expedition and keeping me enthralled to the very end.
Preston and Child's favorite word is purchase.
Their second favorite word is susurrus, and again this pops up numerous times over tens of books.
3.5 stars.Short review to come.
This turned out to be a much better non-detour from the Pendergast series than I thought it would be. Nora is a fantastic character, very resourceful, and I can't wait to see how she fits in with the rest of the cast in the series. (Also, Smithback.... ehhhhh but I might be warming to him.)
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
This is the first book from Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child that I absolutely hated.
It is so boring and just plods along like it has no place to go.
UGH!Even the characters are boring and uninteresting: Nora Kelly, Peter Holyrood, Bill Smithback, Aaron Black, Roscoe Swire, Sloane Goddard and Luigi Bonarotti.
There wasn't a pleasant person in the entire group.
All they did was bitch and moan about the travel to the Anasazi site of Quivira.
Even after they finally get to Quivira and the shit hits the fan, they are still angry and annoying.
Estos estaban buscando una carta, que Nora encontrará por casualidad.
En esta carta, el padre de Kelly habla del descubrimiento de la ciudad perdida de Quivira de los indios Anasazi, dando la información necesaria para hallarla.
A partir de este momento, Nora no cejará en su empeño por encontrar el apoyo del instituto en el que trabaja para que subvencione una expedición en busca de Quivira.
La aventura está servida.Como es habitual en las novelas de Douglas Preston y Lincoln Child, ‘La ciudad sagrada’ (Thunderhead, 1999) te atrapa desde las primeras páginas.
Easily my favorite of all the books cowritten by these authors. I remember being absolutely hooked by this book, experiencing the adrenaline rush in real-time, the first time I read it, and I've reread it countless times since then. Perhaps I like it better because it doesn't have FBI Special Agent Pendergast in it (who has become rather unbelievable in the most recent Preston/Child books). As always with these authors' better books, the interwoven archaeological facts and level of detail are impressive. Nora, the protagonist, is especially compelling and interesting.
This is an interesting story overall, and long.
The biggest problem I have with it is that its believability suffers in part because of the story's pacing and partly because of the rather bizarre form of evil presented.
Then the story bogs down, down, down with excessive details about Indian tribes, lab work, and character quirks.
Then the bizarre evil characters become active characters, but you barely feel scared by them and mostly they just seem weird.
You do learn a fair amount about archaelogical procedures, Indians, and canyons.
This book zips along like a Hollywood movie.
It's like a summer blockbuster in literary form.
All the conflicts of drama are here, like there was template and the writers checked each one off as they went along.
Self vs the environment, yup.
Self vs others, yup.
Self vs the unknown, yup.
It has a fun cast of characters, a few of which I couldn't wait until they died, and then when they did die, I was a little disappointed in the how.
In general, I was a little disappointed in the ending, but overall it was a fun ride.
What a great adventure! A nice break from fantasy although it had quite a few elements common to fantasy in it. There was witchcraft, ancient mythology, bravery, treachery and travel. The research into the anasazi was thorough and exact as was the archaeology.
This book was exciting from the first to the last page! The authors definitly knew how to keep a reader excited and reading! I read it in one day and absolutly enjoyed it!
I really liked this book. I have only read one other Douglas Preston book and I liked it but this one was even better. I like archaeology and I love paranormal and Native American folklore so this was right up my ally. If you are at all interested in archaeology I would highly recommend this book.
My dad really likes these authors, and because I'm captivated by skinwalker legends, I had to pick this one up.
We know that Sloane is a little nutty, but we only know this because Nora is suspicious about her to begin with, calling her a "sorority girl".
Nora and Smithback's romance was good, but I wish there had been more of a buildup there.
Sloane basically called it, and that was a bit lazy.
I guess I wish the plot had been a bit thicker, but it was still a good book, one I couldn't put down.
Mystery, hints of a lost city, conflicting personalities, and even an appearance by one of the characters in the authors' previous books.
To top off near perfection, the book even includes a big, fuzzy dog appropriately called Teddy Bear.
:)Although something frightening happened near the beginning of the book, I spent much of the first half of it "waiting for the other shoe to drop" even as I was intrigued by everything going on up to that point as the suspense slowly built up.
It's nice to think there might be a few good mysteries still left, but if not, we at least still have books!
It's the story of a search for the lost city of gold, Quivara, that Coronado had searched for in the 16th century.
Nora Kelly finds a letter from her father written 16 years previously that describes his search for the city and she eventually convinces the Santa Fe Archaeological Institute to fund a search for the lost city in the canyons of Southern Utah.
This was a really engrossing story and included information about the Anasazi and what could have happened to them that was really fascinating.
Eventually, they do find the lost city: a cliff dwelling at the top of a hidden canyon, but it is not as some thought.
So it's not a literary masterpiece but for good page-turning adventure thrills I enjoyed it thoroughly.
Plodded along for the first 300 pages and then ramped up nicely with some fun deceit, murder, flash floods, and discovery. I would have to say my least favorite of the ten I've read by this author.
If you've never heard of Douglas Preston before, he's written several books in this style (along with author Lincoln Child), including Relic which was made into a major motion picture back in 1997.But onto the book.
But some things were never meant to be discovered.Preston and Child know how to write.
I was often getting confused between Smithback and Black, Bonarotti and Beiyoodzin, Sloane and Swire, Aaron and Aragon.Overall though, I really enjoyed reading this book and looked forward to whatever free time I had to pick it up.
Playing it safe, Preston and Child take no missteps as Nora finds an old letter from her long-missing father with clues to Quivira's location; leads an expedition of central-casting types (a leathery old cowboy, a beautiful female photographer, the jokey journalist who figured in Relic and Reliquary, etc.); after much difficulty, discovers Quivira, which is revealed as a repository of ancient evil; and encounters death by way of the Native American witches who threatened her at the novel's start.
The authors display deep affection for the pulp they're recycling, talent for exciting set pieces, a hazardous ascent along a ridge toward Quivira and the flash-flooding of the canyon harboring the city are showcases of action writing and, always their ace, the ability to infuse every aspect of their story with authentic techno-scientific lore.
They have a way of writing thrillers that hit every emotion, that are unlike any other novel I’ve ever gotten my hands on, and they just plain make an impact.Nora Kelly, an archeologist, receives a letter from her father who has been missing and presumed dead for decades.
It’s never a cut and dry source for suspense, there are more elements that drag the reader deeper into the story.Biased I may be, but I’m extremely picky when it comes to mysteries.
I praise these authors, and this book, because of how well it was written, how on the edge of my seat it pushes me, and because it’s a damn good thrill ride.
