https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34866.Night_of_the_Fox
A rescue team is sent, as it is imperative that Hugh Kelso be kept out of German hands because of the information he has about the invasion.The British send in Harry Martineau, who can perfectly imitate a German officer and has nerves of steel, and young Sarah Drayton, a nurse who can pass for his French girlfriend who also happens to be Helen de Ville’s niece.
Rommel’s double and Standartenfuhrer Vogel cross paths and make each other nervous, and Vogel has also raised some suspicions with the powers that be on Jersey.The story moves from Rommel’s imposter, to Harry and Sarah and their friends at de Ville Place, to the German contingent on the island, and cruises along at an easy pace while the danger slowly builds.
It's always a mixed bag with a Jack Higgins novel. Some are really good, some I think the good Mr.Higgins wrote in his sleep. This one was from his golden era, and the genre that made him famous: WW2 and Nazi's. It was good and worth the read.
Jack Higgins wrote some great books this is one of them. Set at the end of ww2. The Channel Islands hasn’t had much attention given to it and what happen during war occupation that I have read aside from the guernsey literary society book. This one is good. It’s intriguing though there are some weird bits and a mystery.
Prompted by an interest fused by THE GUERNSEY LITERARY AND PPP SOCIETY, I searched the card catlog at the library and found several books that dealth with the Nazi occupation of the channel islands. This is one of those books. It's not great, but it is a murder mystery and has characters devoted to skulduggery and strange sexual practices. The history of the Channel Islands helped me build on my research into this fascinating and unbeknownst, to me, era in history. This book was made into a movie so maybe that would be worth a look too.
WWII spy thriller was made into a movie. British intelligence has to rescue an American officer that is lost behind German lines. Saw the movie and the book reads like the movie. Usually the book is better but so far this one is about the same. Reads like the movie script.
Jersey, 1944: the German occupying force is startled to receive a visit from none other than Field Marshal Rommel, tasked by Hitler with overseeing the Western defences prior to the imminent (but still secret) Allied invasion.
But what Rommel doesn't know is that the actor hired to impersonate him is himself an impostor -- a Jewish refugee, in fact, who's exchanged identities with a dead German soldier.
Martineau's plan is to impersonate an SS bigwig, infiltrate Jersey (with a top-secret portfolio ensuring no-one dares question his presence) and whisk the Bigot to safety.
If there is such a thing as a perfect novel, this one is for me.
Can anyone tell a tale of historical fiction like Jack Higgins?
This novel has everything in it that a reader would ever ask.
You look forward to ending the day with the story in your hands as your eyes start to fade.
Then you decide to savor the story and save it for yet just one more day.
I never wanted this story to end.
If you still give a damn about reading reviews Mr. Higgins, I salute your brilliance and thank you for hours of delightful reading.
I read the shorter Reader's Digest version of this story.
I don't tend to read war books.
Technical army terms confuse me.
That is partly why I chose the RD version to read.
I actually enjoyed the story.
It was more like a history lesson than a war book.
I enjoyed the story except the names.
There were soooo many characters and some had two names (if you read it you will understand that statement).
Sometimes I was confused as to who was who.
lol I learned after reading it that there was a movie made about it in 1990.
When 'Jack Higgins' writes about wartime events involving ordinary people he ranks near the top of my writers list with stories as enjoyable as those of Dick Francis and Nevil Shute, vastly superior to the pap of the later Sean Dillon stories with the brigadier and the Jewish agent.This story involves an American engineer, privy to the secrets of the Normandy invasion being shipwrecked and drifting ashore wounded onto a Channel island which is occupied by the Germans.
The main characters in the story are the agents who try to rescue him off the island with a story of a Rommel impersonator visiting that same island superimposed onto the main plot.
Another cracking read by Higgins who just knows how to tell a war story and give it suspense. Keeps you reading.Highly recommend this one especially if it is still free on Kindle.This one is the story of a clandestine operation to recover a high ranking officer from Jersey and how they go about it.
Night of the foxBy far his best book. A completely believable high suspense thriller. Filled with mounds of intrigue. Takes place at the close of WWII, involving a high level rescue in the Jersey islands,currently under Nazi occupation. A fantastic read!!!
A good, old-fashioned thriller, set in WWII, mostly on the German-occupied island of Jersey. Good plot and well-done characters, although more plot- than character-driven. Not a wasted moment, but nothing essential omitted--a satisfying read.
One of Jack Higgins's earlier thrillers. It's set on the Island of Jersey during WWII. Two SOE agents go in to rescue an American Army officer accidentally stranded there. The book is filled with some great characters and the action never stops, what one expects of Higgins. wonderful story
The story begins with the arrival in England of an American university professor for the funeral of Harry Martineau.
During the funeral, the professor meets Dr. Sarah Drayton, Martineau's one-time lover, who explains the mysterious life and death of Harry Martineau.In the months before the Normandy invasion, a shipwrecked American colonel named Kelso, one of the key invasion planners, washes up on a beach on the British-owned but Nazi-occupied Isle of Jersey.
Eventually, Martineau realizes he can use the Desert Fox to help delivery Col. Kelso, himself, and Sarah back to England.In my opinion, Higgins is at his best when writing WWII thrillers.
The book opens with Professor Alan Stacy visiting Jersey in the Channel Islands seeking to complete his biography of Harry Martineau.
Allied soldiers were training for D-Day at Slapton Sands when they were attacked by a German E-boat.
The Slapton Sands disaster is the basis of the story.
Kelso is an engineer and knows the date and location of the planned Allied invasion.
If the Germans capture him it could turn the Allied invasion into a disaster.
An additional plot and twist to the story is the arrival in Jersey of Erwin Rommel.
This book was made into a made-for-TV movie starring George Peppard as Harry Martineau.
E' il primo libro della serie con protagonisti "Dougal Munro & Jack Carter".La trama del romanzo è presto scritta: la vicenda narrata si svolge negli ultimi giorni della seconda guerra mondiale.
Hugh Kelso è un ufficiale americano che conosce importanti informazioni su l'invasione in corso in Francia, quando la sua barca affonda nel canale della Manica.
Hugh ha la fortuna di essere salvato da Helen de Ville, un residente di Jersey che lo nasconde nella sua casa e riceve un messaggio agli alleati.
Classic Jack Higgins storyThis is a typical Jack Higgins story set during the Nazi occupation of Jersey in the English Channel during WWII on the eve of the Normandy invasion.An American Army engineering Colonel becomes a castaway after the boat he is on gets torpedoed during a rehearsal exercise for the invasion, and he winds up on the Jersey shore .
He also knows all of the Allies plans for Normandy, and cannot fall into Nazi hands.The main part of the story is the attempts by the Jersey locals to take care of the Colonel and the actions of the Allies to either rescue the Colonel or to make sure the Nazis don't get him.
This exciting spy novel about the World War II era is so historically detailed it might have actually happened.
After a wounded American officer, with too much information about the impending allied invasion of Europe, is lost at sea he turns up on the German occupied island of Jersey.
It then becomes top priority for British intelligence to locate him and either rescue him or eliminate him.
Two British citizens fit the bill for attempting to find him; an experienced agent who has often passed as German and a nurse who grew up on the island.
Classic World War 2 spy story complete with real people from the war intermixed with the fictional ones.
There's a very strong attention to detail regarding Jersey, the weaponry, the uniforms and life under occupation.
All of these things make the reading enjoyable.
Almost all of the characters came across well.
My only disappointment was in the main character, Harry Martineau.
By the end of the novel, I realized I never felt a deep connection to his character.
Sarah, Gallagher, Heini, even Rommel all came across better than Harry did.
Still, the story itself is entertaining and inventive.
Good second world war storyI found this book very interesting . I have visited the Jersey Islands and they are beautiful . Many of the things and places addressed in this book still exist . The German hospital that was built underground is still there. Certainly unknown saga of the second world war
As so happens ever so often, I realize about a 1/4 into the book.....I read this years and years ago, before I had the smarts to start keeping a list. Anyway, I only remembered certain things, a smattering of details, a vague plot, so finished again. Good read, good story line. A solid four. Now, hopefully, I did not read any other Higgins book's back when.....
I read this Jack Higgins novel when it was first released in 1986 and now re-reading this free Kindle edition found it just as fascinating. A cracking WW11 SOE espionage adventure, intriguing well written plot.
A great, quick read that was thoroughly entertaining. The story moved along at a good pace and kept you interested.
This is the most damaging context for “testing” such scenarios, as more recent international events have proven.If there are to be “scripts” then all players require a copy and a context for their own behaviours.If there are no scripts, then all contexts are active simultaneously, despite what any “observer” may claim.The greatest trouble with relying upon a single author to present so many different points of view breaking out of stereotypes is that the author’s own perspective determines the limitations and therefore absurdities of his own life.Consider: what would Aesop make of trying to outfox a fox?

"The station is ominous at midnight.Hope is a dead letter.Time to change trains for something better.No local train now, long since departed.No way of getting back to where you started."Timeless story of heroism, bravery, resourcefulness and sacrifice; a place where the delineation between good and evil has no ambiguities, with some poor souls caught in between.A relatively short, feel good read.
I typically enjoy Higgins' novels. This was no exception. However, the first half of the novel moved so slowly it put me off considerably. The final half more than made up for it though, with its action sequences and expertly designed plot twists. The ending was a bit flat too unfortunately. Still, worth the read.
Not bad. 👍
enjoyed this even more than "EAGLE" often highly amusing lol funny
Excellent...
