https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40117.The_Unconsoled
The author is Japanese-born but British enough through education and upbringing to have written The Remains of the Day. This is a long novel (more than 500 pages) that is like a Kafka dream, or better, nightmare.
An eminent pianist wanders in a dream-like state through an unnamed central European city.
Some quotes I liked:“It's nonsense to believe people go on loving each other regardless of what happens.” “One should not, in any case, attempt to make a virtue out of one's limitations.” “Leave us, you were always on the outside of our love.”Not an easy read or a pleasant one, but a worthwhile read and very much unlike the author’s other works that I have read.
(and in this case, re-read.) Photo of Prague from academichelp.netPhoto of the author from theguardian.com
It strikes me as Ishiguro's most Kafkaesque novel, especially in its use of dissociative states.
Kafka's "In the Penal Colony" especially springs to mind.Its narrator, Mr Ryder, a pianist of international reputation, checks into a hotel in an unnamed (likely German) provincial city.
He is driven to events far outside town and returns to the hotel by way of a short passageway.
The first day of Mr. Ryder’s stay in town takes up 150 pages of the novel.
The text is a constant job of balance.Perhaps Ishiguro’s strangest book to date, which is saying something.
The first time this happens, as Gustav is showing him around his hotel room, I found the trick strangely disorienting, and actually doubled back to see whether I had missed a small phrase such as "I found out later" or "he would go on to tell me." But as I went on with the novel and similar incidents followed, it struck me as a very clever way to play with narrative.
I worried a bit about the time it would take to make my feelings clear about the book, but after looking around my office, seeing the sun was streaming through the windows and all of my other duties of the day were happening on schedule, it seemed to be the perfect time to start my review.
I imagine him in his fashionable London flat, asking his assistant to explain to his publishers and his agent and all of his various arrangers hoping that he will offer a reading or a lecture about his work that he himself was entirely transformed personally by my very words!
Having woken up I'll now try to relate some of my impressions, but as you are aware, it is not an easy feat to hold on to the memory of a dream or to recall the details...It was the extraordinarily long conversation in the lift which alerted me to a time warp.
Whilst he does in fact have an incredibly busy schedule, he is heard to say more and more that he is a very busy man with very important business to attend to but somehow he doesn't always get his priorities right.The novel deals with a whole range of human frailties and pettiness.
One hefty tome about musical geniuses & unsure artists (plus the people who love them).This is one strange, uber-Surreal in that Czech sort of way (yup, the birthplace of surrealism)--twisty streets, opaque individuals... resplendent crystals. Mr. Ishiguro strayed from his quiet solemnity to include literary examples of the picaresque. But it does not reach the same heights of "Remains of the Day," "A Pale Vies of Hills" or "Never Let Me Go." It is not as perfect a novel as any one in his soul-affirming trifecta...
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Ones-self: "The Unconsoled" by Kazuo Ishiguro(Original Review, 1995-12-12)I'm pretty respectful of other people's opinions and durable literary reputations.
Reading Ulysses was bliss for me, but I have no harsh words for people who don’t like it.
It is obviously something that has engaged reader’s minds, hearts, and souls, and perhaps more importantly influenced and engaged writers across generations, and I wish I could figure out why the rest of the world does not like it.
As a reader one needs a little humility about one's little opinion, especially if it is “I like” or "I don't like".
4.5 stars.The Unconsoled is at once humorous, touching, uncanny, and intricately, beautifully absurd. My words are failing me at present; the best I can do to describe this paralyzing, captivating reading experience is to say that my inability to wrench my eyes from the page, even when my mind was desperately claustrophobic and screaming for air, felt remarkably similar to the exquisitely unbearable compulsion which gripped the narrator in his childhood: “My ‘training sessions’ had come about qu
I had been playing by myself out in the lane one grey afternoon—absorbed in some fantasy, climbing in and out of a dried-out ditch running between a row of poplars and a field—when I had suddenly felt a sense of panic and a need for the company of my parents.
There was no doubting the strange thrill that had accompanied the growing fear and panic of these occasions, a sensation which perhaps accounted for the somewhat compulsive hold my ‘training sessions’ came to have over me.”
Ryder is ostensibly meant to play part in the concert performance that will bring the city back from the realm of the culturally inconsequential and into the forefront of important society's good graces, but time, space, people, and his own memory constantly threaten to prevent his preparation for the event.And not in any normal fashion.Very quickly it becomes apparent that the tale is not meant to be interpreted with any of that base linearity that we typical confront in reading novels.
ishiguro ortalama okur seviyesine edebiyatın zirvelerinde sayılan ve ulaşılmaz-anlaşılmaz görülen romanlarla boy ölçüşebilecek bir roman sunmuş.
amacı bu olmasa gerek ama üzerine kitaplar yazılabilecek, yazar adaylarına-yazarlara ders olarak okutulabilecek, romanın bugününe-geleceğine dair tezlere konu olabilecek bir roman olmuş avunamayanlar.
merak uyandıran hikaye-sade dil-akıcı anlatım şeklinde özetlenecek ortalama okur kriterleriyle muhteşem bir roman dünyası yaratılmış: kendi mantığına ve iç tutarlılığına sahip özel bir atmosfer, ustaca hazırlanmış bağlantılar, kırılma anları, kesişme noktaları, romanın dışına açılan kapılar ve hepsinden önemlisi geniş ama içinde kaybolmayacak şekilde tasarlanmış okur alanı.
okur alanında hem ciddiyetle ve ağır ağır hem de bir oyun duygusu ve keyifle ilerlenebiliyor.
okur alanı, okur özgürlüğü.
The encounter with the porter with a long 4-page monologue that could have been delivered in just few minutes and the trip to an annexe that his supposed to be a ramshackle hut at the back of the hotel seems to indicate to me that Ishiguro is trying to show the unreal (the unconsoled) vs the real and so all those surreal scenes are part of our memories, the ones that we keep to ourselves because those are what we want to look back at when we are in the later part of our lives.This is my 5th book by Kazuo Ishiguro and it seems to me that the theme of unreliable memory is always there in his first-person narrators: from Stevens, to Kathy, to Masuji Ono, to Etsuko and now to Ryder.
Daha önce hiç gelmediği bu şehirde birkaç gün sonra çok önemli bir konser verecektir.
Ama işler pek de beklediği gibi gitmez, biz okurların da beklediği gibi gitmez, Ryder daha önce hiç gitmediği yerlerde bulunduğunu hatırlamaya başlar, tanımadığı insanlarla daha evvel konuştuğunu, bir ilişkisi olduğunu fark eder.
Ryder bir söylediğinin tam tersini üç cümle sonra hemen söyler, saatlerce yol alarak gittiği bir yerin, aslında yola çıktığı yer olduğunu görür.Romanda herhalde en açık olan şey, bir rüyanın, rüya mantığıyla hareket edilen bir bilinçaltı evrenin içinde olduğumuzdur.
Ishiguro, Kafkaesk'i çok işlevsel bir şekle getirmiş.
Following a kind of dream logic, these do not surface consciously as memories but rather as reshapings of reality, as when Ryder suddenly realizes that the hotel room he has been given in the unnamed Germanic city in which he is due to give a concert is the same room that he inhabited for a couple of years as a boy in an aunt’s house “on the borders of England and Wales” (I don’t think the liminal location is fortuitous.) Similarly, though far more strangely, when the hotel porter Gustav persuades him to meet with his daughter Sophie and grandson Boris, Ryder begins to recall past, shared episodes that suggest that Sophie and Boris may in fact be his own wife or partner and son.I speak of “dream logic” advisedly.
که در پایان همین اتفاق میوفته و نوید ظهور یک پیانیست (نجات دهنده) بومی داده میشه و البته با الهام از رایدر!در پایان نتونستم بیش‌تر از ۳ بدم به این رمان چون که زیاد وقتم رو گرفت و اون چیزی که می خواستم نبود و در عجبم که با این همه کتاب نخونده ی بینظیری که تو زندگیم هنوز هست چرا نوبت به تسلی ناپذیر رسید!
As a person who compulsively makes lists and worries about crossing things off them, I read this book with a continual low-level anxiety.
The main character, a pianist traveling in an unnamed European city, continually makes promises and takes on enormous responsibilities and then fails to follow through with them for various absurd and aggravating reasons.
The style of the book is unique and unexpectedly engaging, but the experience of immersing yourself in the story is one of frustration.
I find Kafka extraordinarily frustrating as well, for many of the same reasons, so those comparisons seem apt to me.
It’s artfully done, but that is the problem: as a reader, I feel like he hides certain things from me (plot points, twists, etc.) that end up making me feel manipulated.Don’t get me wrong, there is plenty of manipulation in this book as well (perhaps even more).
What’s impressive is that through all the craziness, you can see that Ishiguro has a concrete, realistic vision and emotional center (though at points it does seem random, it takes 535 pages to finally see how it all comes together).To me, it’s a book about the futility and short sightedness of human endeavors, and about how we are all pulled in certain directions by our past so that we end up in a rut going around in a circle.
Of the Ishiguro novels I've read, which is now most of them, this one verges closest on magnificence, I think.
I now look back on many of the odd and dreamlike sequences of Murakami and suspect that Murakami is the poor man's Ishiguro.Some books are really fantastic and yet you feel like you would not want to reread them.
This book feels like one that could be, and wants to be, reread.
Probably Ishiguro's more divisive book, I view this as his "Finnegans Wake". An experiment in plot. Yes, most of this novel makes absolutely no sense whatsoever but I actually enjoyed this. Oddly. While I was reading this lucid, dreamlike novel I felt compelled to continue. I don't know. I liked this but I can't exactly put my finger on the reason why. This novel is definitely not for everyone but I'm glad Ishiguro wrote it. It's interesting, let's say that.
Ben de karşıma çıkan ilk YKY kitabevinden aldım Avunamayanlar'ı karlı bir günde.Bir otel lobisinde nefis bir başlangıç ile karakterimizle tanışıyoruz : Mr. Ryder.Arka kapak yazısından da okuyabileceğiniz üzere kendisi ünlü bir piyanist.
Film izliyor gibi hayatına girdim, tanımak için daha fazla okumam lazım hissiyle devam ettim.
Mr. Ryder size ailesini, kendisini, hatta hayatındaki olayları bir kesinlik ile anlatmıyor.
Eleştirmenleri ayıran temel nokta aslında yazarın bir piyanisti başkahraman yapmakla 'sanat' kavramını irdelemesi ve kitabın rüya mantığı -tekniği demek daha doğru- üzerinden ilerleyerek okuyucuya 'karmaşık' gelmesi.
yy edebiyatından bu denli etkilenmiş bir yazarın rüya tekniğinin anlaşılmaz bulunması bana..
Rüya tekniğinde bir karakter çoğunlukla farklı insanlar tarafından tasvir edilir, diyerek açıklıyor Ishiguro.
Her karakter Mr. Ryder'ın bir görüntüsü gibi.
داستان پیانیستی که یکی از مشهورترین های زمان خودشه و برای اجرا به یه شهر کوچیک دعوت میشه، شهری که مردمش همه اون رو میشناسن و اکثرشون هم انتظارای عجیب و غریب ازش دارن.
این پیانیست که اسمش رایدره تو این شهر انگار که یه داره زندگی خودش رو مرور میکنه.
جذابترین بخش داستان سبکش بود.
بدیش هم این بود که دیگه یه جاهایی خیلی روده درازی میکنن شخصیتها و رو مخ میرن.
فکرشو بکنید یه کتاب هفتصد هشتصد صفحه ای رو که بخش عمده اییش حرفای مفتی که کاراکترها میزنن، واقعا یه جاهایی از صبر آدم خارج میشه.
در کل کتاب خیلی خوبی بود
I honestly expected to get the end and see the phrase 'and then he woke up and it was all a dream' but was even more irritated when this didn't even happen, such was the non-sensical dreamesque drivel that had occupied the previous 500 pages.
The character's weak will and inability to do what he wants to do was beyond irritating and it was impossible to feel anything towards Ryder other than contempt by the end.
I understand that certain characters were obviously intended to represent Ryder in his youth which might have been a clever concept if the events surrounding this concept hadn't been so annoying and so even this wasn't enough to make me respect this book.
Time is very flexible (in the first pages, Gustav, a porter, has time for a 4-page monologue during a lift journey that should take at most 30 seconds, for example), locations are inexact and seem to be moveable (as can often happen in a dream, a room turns out to be connected to another room that it wasn’t connected to at the start of scene but happens to be the room needed for the next phase), people appear, or are noticed, without all the preamble of them entering a room or they suddenly have something in their hands that hasn’t been noticed until that point.
There’s more than just these examples, but you need to read it for yourself to see how Ishiguro builds something in a way that is by turns exasperating and exhilarating.I can quite see why many people would read the first part of the book and give up.
At first you wonder if he’s suffering from jet-lag, or possibly even amnesia, but then it slowly dawns on you that it actually reads like a dream and it’s never wholly clear if this is Ryder’s genuine perception - i.e. he is insane - or simply a literary construct.
You are desperate for Ryder to actually DO all the things he claims he needs to do, or that people ask of him, and yet the diversions and distractions come one after another and nothing is quite as it should be.
Since Ishiguro is so concerned with how personal accountability intersects with personal and public delusionality, it only makes sense that he should have written a book in which a man approaches a public concert and keynote–and his family life–with the reckless, responsibility-free logic of dreams (stand up to give a speech and find yourself naked; turn into a pig; go backwards every time you step forwards, and why the hell not?
LIFE IS BUT A DREAM!).
Or perhaps, a book that proves that ALL meaning can be found in dreams and the subconscious, giving us the dream-life of a character and practically begging us to deduce a coherent biography from the symbols!More thoughts here:http://alisonkinney.com/2014/01/12/ka...Thanks!
İlk okuduğum Ishiguro eseri...
İlk başta bir kişi üzerinden (ki bir süre sonra tek taraflı bir konuşma halini alıyor) yürüyen ve sayfalarca süren o uzun konuşmalarda kimi zaman irtibat kopsa ve sıkıcı gelse de hikâye bir yerde ansızın çok ilginç bir ivme kazandı.
O noktadan sonra akıcı bir hâl aldı.Önce hikâyenin kahramanı Ryder'ın hafızasını kaybettiğini düşündüm ancak bu bir yanılgıydı elbette.
Kahramanın iç dünyasındaki çekişmeler ve çelişkiler yüzünden hikâyede etkin bir buhran hissedilebilir ancak heyecan ve merak duygusunu körüklediği de gerçek.Güzel, sürükleyici bir deneyimdi...
Okuyacağım bir sonraki Ishiguro eseri ne olacak karar vermedim henüz ama yakın zamanda okuyacağım mutlaka.
Basically every review I read of this book talks about how it's dream-like or even literally a dream recounted.
I feel like these reviewers must have very...
And part of what made the book so successful is that I had so little respect for the narrator and yet I found myself taking his side, repeatedly, throughout the book.Troublingly, for me, there are a number of scenes where the protagonist is chided or downright excoriated for his lack of warmth towards his son.
I seriously wonder what this means for my parenting skills.I would generally not finish books like this, since it is on several levels rather boring.
*Available from KOBOBOOKSAs many reviewers have pointed out, the novel has dream-like, meandering structure. Some readers found this off-putting and I can understand why. There are often lengthy repetitive passages of dialogue that are frankly simply trying and boring. If you decide to assay the novel, well, you have been warned. The thing is, I don’t have a problem with dream-like or meandering. I enjoyed  Kafka on the Shore ,  The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle , and  The Trial  each of which have the
*Available from KOBOBOOKSAs many reviewers have pointed out, the novel has dream-like, meandering structure.
However, unlike Stevens who knowingly dedicated himself to his vocation and deliberately eschewed love, because of The Unconsoled’s dream-like style and its propensity to explain away highly unreal out-of-character dream-like events, we can never tell if Ryder is actually acting voluntarily due to his personality and beliefs or whether this is all part of the nightmarish quality of the tale.
This might be less of a problem except that the novel keeps harping on Ryder's intent as, written in first person POV, he keeps explaining his intentions and feelings to us.
This book is like an extended dream sequence.The main character, a pianist, arrives in a city he has never visited to give a concert he doesn't remember agreeing to, and over the next few days finds himself wandering through a strangely shifting landscape, meeting people who aren't what they seem, and doing things for reasons he doesn't understand.
He drives halfway across town to a reception, only to walk through a small door and find himself back in the bar of his hotel.
He's asked by Gustav, the hotel porter, to have a word with Gustav's daughter to find out what's upsetting her, and it transpires that the two of them have been lovers for years.
Oh good lord, this book never ends.
The whole thing is written like one of those never-ending dreams where you're constantly going through impossible doors and realising you're late for appointments you don't remember making.
I presumed that some of the other characters were supposed to represent Ryder's family or his younger self but there was so little cohesiveness that it was hard to follow at the best of times and hard to care at the worst.
4,5Πραγματικά ένα πολύ ιδιαίτερο βιβλίο...ο χρόνος διαστέλλεται και νομίζεις ότι βρίσκεσαι μέσα σε ένα όνειρο...η κάθε στιγμή του παρόντος δημιουργεί το δικό της παρελθόν, και το μέλλον δεν έρχεται ποτέ.Ένα βιβλίο για τις λάθος επιλογές για το σπατάλημα της ζωης...γραμμένο με χιουμορ, ανθρωπιά και μυστήριο, ένα βιβλίο που αγάπησα!
Bu yazı yazarın Günden Kalanlar, Beni Asla Bırakma ve Avunamayanlar romanlarıyla ilgili spoiler'lar içerir...Okudugum en ilginç romanlardan biriydi.
Sanırım bunu hayatla bağdaştırmış yazar, yani ben öyle bir çıkarımda bulundum , normal hayatta da sürekli planlar yaparız ancak bunları her zaman gerçekleştirme şansı bulamayız, bazı durumlarda anne babam ne der, insanlar ne düşünür duygusu bize engel olur, bazen de insanların ricalarını kırmamak için kendi istediğimizi değil, onların istediklerini yaparız, kendimizi mutlu etmekten ziyade başkalarını mutlu etmek zorunda hissederiz kendimizi.
Örnegin Mr. Ryder'ı insan olarak tanımamalarına rağmen sürekli ekstra bir hürmet etme durumu var, çok yüce bir şahsiyet gibi davranıyorlar.
You get on the wrong train, get off and go back in the other direction but it takes you somewhere else, then start walking but the streets don’t go where they’re supposed to?I’ve had those, mostly at times of stress, when I had a lot on my mind and my life felt out of control.
He’s the perfect person to write this kind of book.The main character is a famous concert pianist called Ryder who arrives in an unspecified town somewhere in central Europe to give a recital.
His life feels out of control.One thing I liked was that it was never made obvious that it was a dream.
I wasn't high enough for any of this.

This massive novel orbits the rest of Ishiguro's books like a giant red planet, complete with its own gaseous atmosphere and gravitational pull.
This dream novel is a continual unbalancing act.
Etc. Guided wholly by dream logic and sudden shifts of perspective, Ishiguro takes some of the operating principles of Kafka and spins them into a strange sort of page turner.
It's filled with marvelous set pieces, flashes of outrageous slapstick humor, a series of exotic settings, and a narrative that plays out like a nightmare version of working your way through various levels of a video game.
As a new reader of Ishiguro, I devoured Never Let Me Go, When We Were Orphans, and Artist of the Floating World in a month, but this book is so deeply frustrating, I found myself scanning whole chapters in an attempt to avoid the endless conversations.
While I can understand some people liking this book, the constant stalling drove me crazy, and it felt like Ishiguro was deliberately being obtuse to prove how clever he can be.
Overall, I loved Ishiguro's descriptions of people and places, but this book is more for people who have more tolerance for rambling, inane conversations than I do.
Ishiguro captures the feeling of those anxiety dreams in which we know we have to be somewhere, do something, but there's no straight path between here and there, we can't seem to get there, and can't seem to keep our minds on it...I kept expecting to lose patience with The Unconsoled -- after all, how much of this unreality can one take before a certain longing takes hold for a linear plot, a sense of progression, of our protagonist actually doing things instead of having things done to him?
Bu okuduğum ikinci Ishiguro oldu. Oldukça Kafkaesk bir anlaşılmazlık içinde ilerlerken sanki romanı okudukça daha az şey biliyor, bildiğimi sandıklarımın hiç de öyle olmadığını daha iyi anlıyordum. Bir yandan bir iç sıkıntısı, öte yandan doymak bilmeyen bir merakla habire çevirip durdum sayfaları. Az değil, 540 sayfalık mini bir tuğlaydı. İçi dışı maddi manevi her yönden bitirmek gerçek bir tatmin sağladı.
I wasn't sure about myself--a couple of chapters in, and I was ready to give up on the book and move on, but the bizarre events convinced me that what I had first thought was an author completely losing control of his material was not what was happening, and that whether or not the end result would be effective, it was entirely planned.
But if you find yourself feeling frustrated after three or four chapters, I think you can safely put the book down and go on to something else--you have 500 more pages of the same dream logic to get through.
Although it's evident that Ishiguro has crafted the book carefully and deliberately created the impression of chaos, trying to detect or piece together a sensible narrative of events and characters is completely against the idea of the book, and if you try to read the text in that way, you'll very likely fail.
I can understand there's something frustrating about that, but to me the text was about creating a reading experience that is open to you if you want it, as long as you are willing to suspend any preconceptions about what a novel 'is' or 'is not' going to be like.
Plus, the novel highlights that the human brain does not remember or experience things in orderly ways.
Roman sanatı hakkındaki algım bu roman sayesinde bir sıçrama yaptı.
Kolay bir okuma değil; dikkatli bir şekilde, ağır ağır okumak gerekiyor.
Çünkü Kafkaesk bir atmosferde, birbirinden bağımsız ve gündelik mantığa sığmayan, adeta bir rüya atmosferinde geçen bir sürü olay yaşanıyor.
Kazuo Ishigoro o kadar başarılı bir yazar ki bu olayların gelişme ve birbirlerine bağlanma şekilleri hiçbir şekilde göze batmıyor.
Oysa, yeteneksiz ve tecrübesiz bir elde tam bir çöp de olabilirdi bu roman.
Ayrıca anlamsız gibi görünen bütün o detayların arkasında, hepimizin her gün sezdiği basit gerçeklerin olması çok hoşuma gitti doğrusu.
Nobel komitesinin ödülü açıklarken düştüğü not, bu kitap için de geçerli.
Don't read this book if you're easily exasperated because nothing is happening.
Don't read this book if you want there to be a plot or action.
But do read this book if you like incredible writing or you like interesting descriptions or you want to go on a journey.
You feel like you're in this incredible place where you'll never find your way out.
There was some sense in the end, and you did get a feeling of closure (waking up?) I'm very glad I read it, but also very glad I don't have to read it again.
Este un roman fin și solid în același timp. Necesită timp și concentrare, dar merită să ajungă în reading list-ul tău.
Its narrator completely lacks specificity, becoming a kind of anxious Everyman who like all of us shunts through arbitrary but always heartfelt emotions: "I looked around the room and felt a desperate sadness start to engulf me." Ishiguro's experimentalism allows Ryder to literally see all of our deepest and most superficial fears: that friends flatter us only to our faces; that we have disappointed our parents; that our actions have hurt people; that others are depending on us for something difficult to understand and impossible to provide.
Insanely ambitious but eerily assured, this book is its own world.
It is not a short novel (535 pages) and I'm currently about half way through and I would say I'm enjoying the experience of reading, while having no clear sense of the point of any of the narrative.
That shows how good a writer he is.A second element of weirdness is that this is my bedtime book, so I'm reading a book that feels like a continuous dream just before I fall asleep and get on with my own dream(s).
I'm also reading it at the same time as Murnane's A History of Books, and that's creating an additional element of weirdness.
I liked this book ALL the way through.
