https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114334-the-late-monsieur-gallet
It’s interesting that in some lists it says this is Maigret #2 and here #3. Well regardless of it’s actual number, this is a fantastic read. I said the first Maigret book I read earlier this year, which was #1 was the best fiction book I had read this year, well this ran it a close second. The writing is again excellent, the characterisations, especially Maigret himself are wonderful and the setting is again so evocative of France. In my humble and biased opinion a wonderful 5 ⭐ detective novel.
It’s interesting that in some lists it says this is Maigret #2 and here #3. Well regardless of it’s actual number, this is a fantastic read. I said the first Maigret book I read earlier this year, which was #1 was the best fiction book I had read this year, well this ran it a close second. The writing is again excellent, the characterisations, especially Maigret himself are wonderful and the setting is again so evocative of France. In my humble and biased opinion a wonderful 5 ⭐️ detective novel.
After giving it some thought, I'm raising my rating of this novel to 5 stars because this is one of those books in which I'm blown away not only by Simenon's own observations of humanity, but also by his ability to put them on paper via crime fiction and have them resonate so deeply.
I am beginning to believe that this man must have been one of the keenest observers of human nature ever, something that becomes quite obvious here as the story unfolds, layer by layer by layer.
Simenon plots it in great depth, as others have said before me, much more depth and intricacy than the series would be known for, here there is hardly any of that great Simenon psychological insight AND most unlikely of all Maigret barely eats or drinks at all, two of his absolute favourite pastimes.
Gallet it becomes apparent quite quickly that he thinks that understanding the man is much more important than chasing clues and hunting cold blooded murderers.
And understanding that about this detective and author is key to enjoying the series.
Georges Simenon continues to amaze with The Late Monsieur Gallet.In a very quick read (my copy is 155 pages), Simenon weaves a splendid tale.
Once again, Inspector Maigret works mostly alone.
He has a lot of resources at his disposal yet he singularly is up to the task.There are two things I especially appreciate about Simenon.
With a lot of unknowns, the inspector digs and wills the facts through old-fashioned searching and sifting of clues, talking to witnesses, and lateral thinking.The other is that Simenon has Maigret lay out the possible repercussions once he's solved the crime.
I very much enjoyed Georges Simenon’s Pietr the Latvian, the very first novel in the series featuring the persistent and clever Detective Chief Inspector Jules Maigret.
The second novel — published variously as Lock 14, The Carter of La Providence and Maigret Meets a Milord — not as much.
Gallet was a lie: This shadowy man was even living in a hotel in Sancerre under a false name: Monsieur Clément.
Gallet falsify his life?
In The Late Monsieur Gallet, the clever chief inspector emerges as human and perplexed as the rest of us; however, in the end, Maigret discovers the truth of M.
Gallet’s life and death.
First, let me say that I see nothing that would indicate these need to be read in order.
Here, Simenon does not especially assume that you already know Maigret.
I find his character to be as well-drawn - perhaps better - than one might expect of characterizations in the genre.
At first, he finds nothing especially interesting in the case.
Despite this, he goes about his job with thoroughness.
Still, they are murder mysteries, a genre that brings out the worst in at least one character.
And then he goes home to his wife.
I need to read more Maigret.
FRom Tout Simenon:Dans un hôtel de Sancerre où il était connu sous le nom de M. Clément, Emile Gallet, domicilié à Saint-Fargeau, a été tué d'une balle au visage suivie d'un coup de poignard dans le cœur, alors que sa femme le croyait à Rouen, en train d'exercer son métier de représentant de commerce. Ecrit à A bord de l'Ostrogoth, Nandy près de Morsang-sur-Seine (Seine-et-Marne) été 1930.
This is the first of the early Maigrets in which I feel that Simenon outsmarted himself.
Maigret Stonewalled is altogether too rich in incident, too rich in characters, and excessively rich in strange clues that seem to point nowhere.
This is one of those cases where the complexities of the crime are such that no one could be prosecuted without an excessive social cost to many of the innocent parties.
I am grateful that Simenon did not continue this strain of complexity in the other works of his I have read: He seems to be best in more stripped-down situations, partly because we can get a better idea of Maigret's mind and instincts at work.
Da molto tempo non leggevo Simenon, colpa credo di un paio di libri in cui probabilmente non era nella sua forma migliore. Questo è sicuramente godibile: la scrittura è accattivante e la storia tiene attaccati. Sono un po' delusa dal finale, lo ammetto. Mi è sembrato un po' troppo arzigogolato, ma poco male, ora che mi ci sono riconciliata, posso ricominciare a leggere Maigret.
One of the earliest Maigret novels (though not the first, as my edition claims on the back), this book has an interesting mystery and a surprising conclusion.
Here, Maigret is all alone, out in the country and away from the traditional cast of characters, and away from the somewhat melancholy atmosphere of Parisian crime that makes these novels so flavorful.
The other problem is that the solution to the crime, although certainly novel and surprising, feels more a result of chance and serendipity rather than Maigret's (and Simenon's) masterful plumbing of the deeper reaches of human psychology and motivation.
But an average Maigret novel, not a superior one.
I do like the Maigret books, as well as Maigret as a character (even if, in my mind, he looks like Rowan Atkinson, who does a really good job of playing him on TV), and I didn't see the twist in this one coming.
Another well-written Detective Inspector Maigret novel, this one with an ending that I did not see coming, although in retrospect I did understand where I went wrong. Lol I swallowed the red herrings hook, line and sinker.
My second book read in the new Penguin series - a clever and complex plot is not enough to stop Maigret solving this murder in a rural hotel in the Paris hinterland
The Late Monsieur Gallet is another good Inspector Maigret mystery.
I read many of these many years ago and have decided to read or reread them since their reprinting by Penguin.
These are police procedurals that show how Maigret is able to work mostly alone and solve complex mysteries.
Simenon’s keen sense of observation are always prevalent.
In this mystery, Maigret has to solve why Gallet died.
Maigret is puzzled until the end when he discovers the truth.
It is a clever and complex plot.
I’m glad Penguin decided to rerelease this masterful series with the Belgian inspector Maigret.
A less of a murder mystery but more of Maigret's poignant observations on humanity is shown primarily via the manner (aka ending) in which he resolves the case. Regardless to say, his dogged determination to get to the truth is at display here too like in, Pietr the Latvian. My Rating - 4/5
Da, to je to. Poaro i Megre, najveće ajkule u moru krimića... 😊
Inspector Maigret deals with a strange murder in The Late Monsieur Gallet by Georges Simenon, translated from the French by Anthea Bell.
Getting sent to the countryside to deal with a murder, Maigret has a hard time picturing the victim, as the body looks nothing like the old photograph.
But then, Madame Gallet explains her husband had been dieting.
People say he was right-handed, but evidence suggests the victim is left-handed.
And the victim uses different names.
Further, he hasn’t worked for the company he supposedly has been employed by for 18 years, yet he has a sizable life insurance policy.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
Nu o sa inteleg niciodata stilul lui Georges Simenon. Ii citesc romanele pentru ca imi plac tare mult finalurile, sunt solide, inchegate, dar altfel...
In the midst of a summer heat wave, while most of the Parisian police force works guard duty for a visit from the King of Spain and other officers are either off attending a forensic conference or minding their sick children, Detective Chief Inspector Maigret takes on the murder of a commercial traveler found dead in his hotel room in Sancerre.
The note from the local police mentions, “Many curious details.” That’s an understatement.
The victim, M.
Eventually, of course, things fall into place for Maigret.“...I felt for too long anyway that there was something creaky about this story.
The Maigret series begins strong. The unromantic Inspector circles around a mystery worthy of the wildest pulp fiction. Rather than a methodical approach or a flash of brilliance, his method consists of amassing as much information as he can until some little detail starts nagging away at him to the point where he finds the key to the whole mystery in resolving that itch. Highly gripping and to my mind Maigret is still unique among fictional sleuths.
At the end of the day, I just don't think Maigret is very interesting, and this series seems fairly bloodless. The first Simenon book I ever read was Dirty Snow, and I thought it was fantastic. I wish Simenon's big detective series was as good.
Georges Simenon.
***.This was an early novel from Simenon, featuring the emerging Inspector Maigret.
This causes two results: first, Maigret must work on his own – his cadre of associates in Paris are not available to him, so he is forced to fall back on his own skills; secondly, he is forced to use his own style of reasoning for which he will become famous – discovering the killer by learning to know the victim.
After the murder is solved, Maigret loses interest in the whole matter and returns to Paris.
Un omicidio in una camera d’ albergo: il signor Gallet è stato ucciso da uno sparo partito da sette metri di distanza. Sembra tutto molto di poco conto, ma poi i fatti s’ingarbugliano e le testimonianze stridono come se risultassero tutte false, come se Gallet avesse da diciotto anni una doppia vita (view spoiler)[ e in un certo senso è così. In sintesi non ho gradito: troppi garbugli e troppi soldi che circolano: preferisco i delitti d’ amore! Lui, oltretutto, è uno sfigato truffatore. (hide spoiler)]Di Simenon apprezzo più i romanzi.Una stella.
Again, very good story and I never saw the twist at the end coming :-)
An early book in the Inspector Maigret and the best so far. Maigret's character is becoming a bit more fleshed out and the plotting was quite good. Listened to the audio version which was well read by Gareth Armstrong.
Amazing that this was written almost 90 years ago! Comparable to something that was published today.
I haven’t spent time with the good Inspector Maigret since I was young, so it was comforting to know that he is still as world weary but pragmatic as always.
3.5/5
Added another star a day later. The characters and scenario linger (always a good sign), and it's a highly enjoyable read.
Better than usual (based on my reading) “Maigret” mystery novel. Story finely portrays many of the cultural, economic and social issues challenging France in the late 1920’s. Very good mystery.
