https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116056.Night_and_Day
Night and Day indeed!He: would like to write verses comparing her eyes to the stars.She: would like to take a compass and a ruler and measure the distance between the stars.He: believes women can only feel and not reason.She: believes she must renounce a life of reason to satisfy his feelings.There are several versions of He and She in this book as if Woolf set out to analyse men and women in general and offer us examples, some very diametrically opposed, as in the example above, and some hardly at all.
Woolf’s prose conquers the unconquerable.Her ability to evoke the solidness of London in all its shapes, smells and sounds is simply magisterial: the Strand shrouded in misty darkness, the smoldering warmth of Mary’s fireplace, the small window of Ralph’s alcove at the top of a hill with the sparkling city sprawled out underneath, the twittering of docile sparrows that delights impromptu strollers… The precision of these static images contrasts with the fluidity of the river Thames, location where Ralph and Katharine speak freely, ignoring the constraints ascribed to their sex, role or class, giving substance to silent conversations, to things left unsaid.The characters’ inner life is minutely dissected and probed into, defying the tedium of time and the romantic idealization of the object of one’s desires until it becomes the truncal aspect of the story as it approaches a climatic, if also conventional ending.
Katherine Mansfield famously took exception to Woolf’s utter disregard of the war that had recently taken place.
And it’s true there’s something distasteful about the relentless vivisection of nuanced sexual emotion that occupies much of this novel.
It’s difficult to place exactly when this novel is set.
The house in which Katherine, the heroine, lives is Woolf’s childhood home which would place it in the late 19th century.
It’s apparently a portrait of her sister Vanessa but at this time in her life Vanessa was already ripping to shreds many of the Victorian social constraints Katherine struggles with.
Who cares about 'good' writing when the story is crap, when the characterisations are stupid - men sighing and moaning around the place like lovesick pubescent girls having a crush on a boy in fourth form?
Even the men give up work for country existence of the well-off or dabble at writing, even if they aren't very good at it.Snobbery abounds.
"You may come from the oldest family in Devonshire but that is no reason why you can't be seen talking to me." That from one of the leisured classes.
(view spoiler)[Truth be told, I've never read a Harlequin and refuse to even stock them.
But I have seen them in the supermarket :-) (hide spoiler)]
How else does one describe the sensation one gets from a book whose author takes such a conventional story, adds psychological potency through inner thought narrative, and makes one fall in love with the English novel?
Here, perfect sentences give way to perfect sequence and humdrum scenes turn delightful with each passing remark, each carefully thought out dialogue, for love is not about when it happens but how it happens, marriage is an idea considered, not a mere happenstance, and women are not just decorative beings, but partners, with intellectual capabilities.Are the great ones ever really about the plot alone, or is a great book a compound of narrative elements?
Uncertainty about how, when, why, who, and whether to marry, how they feel about the changing roles of men and women, issues of independence versus family obligations (as provider, or as wife and possible mother), the appeal of or need to work, and literature versus science (specifically, the secret vice of “unwomanly” maths and astronomy).“No work can equal in importance, or be so exciting as, the work of making other people do what you want them to do.”Then again, that could include the “work” of raising a child.Night and Day, Inner and Outer“A feeling of contempt and liking combine very naturally in the mind of one to whom another has just spoken unpremeditatedly, revealing rather more of his private feelings than he intended to reveal.”The title has no direct bearing on the story, but is indicative of the contrasts within: platonic versus passionate love, career and independence versus commitment and family, town versus country, moneyed versus not, and past versus future.
The slow and incessant oscillations of the waves of her prose carry the reader into this story questioning the sentiment of love.
Woolf's writing shows the world through the sensations of each character, especially Katherine and Ralph, two candid young persons confronted and disturbed by the emotional overload of love.
She shows the capacity of human beings to live not through the material reality of the world but by telling stories, immersing themselves in fiction.
Is not love feeling a need to tell a story?
Woolf manages to add some social relevance to the story with the suffragette movement, a bit of class difference, possibly some new ideas on marriage, and a tie in to later nonfiction book "A Room of her Own." I enjoyed this book as I have enjoyed all of Woolf's work.
How this story differs from later works is in its form.
Night and Day is a traditional novel of action and interaction unlike later works where stream of consciousness plays a much larger role.
This book also differs in that it lacks Woolf's almost lyrical writing style of later novels.
The mellifluous, fragile voice of Juliet Stephenson was perfect for Woolf’s words - soothing when surrounded by urban noises, like gliding into a cool pool after a hot day; perfect for walking in a garden at dusk; an almost sensory experience.Virginia Woolf explores the nature of work here, of human relationships – especially romantic ones but also the relation with oneself, of family, of all connections to things that we come to see as meaningful in our own lives.
In Night and Day Virginia attempts to throw some light on these slow changes that were steadily taking place.
Instead she writes about events, about places, about concepts, about moments, about feelings, about emotions.
In Night and Day, she writes about the daily life of four youths, their personalities, their perceptions on love, marriage, happiness and success.
All these characters, places, moments, feelings, emotions will however be bare, if not for her beautiful writing.
Here in Night and Day, being an early work, descriptive writing dominates although traces of stream of consciousness can be observed.
Woolf (and I KNOW that we all feel this, those who love her, and it is a wonderful feeling, like belonging to something) is wonderful about painting the possibilities, giving the chance for something to happen.
So Ralph, Mary's friend who she loves, will sit there and come out of himself with a "Well, Mary?" I think that might have been my favorite part of the whole book when that happens.
Isn't that what not knowing your own place is like?Katharine is going to marry William Rodney.
Sure, Ralph never talked about love when he was going around asking these real-dream-or-is-it-real people to marry him.
Bailed at 40%.Clearly this wasn't the best Woolf to start with.The writing style is very similar to my idol & Woolf's sometime friend Katherine Mansfield.
But these beautifully crafted & observed gems are better suited the "slice of life" in the short story format & that is where KM succeeds so well.
I've looked up the page count on Woolf's better known works & they are much shorter novels than this, so I'm hopeful they will work for me as well.
But Woolf couldn't make me care about any of her characters at all, so I am putting this work aside.
Albeit not as ardent, formidable and consuming as her later works (such as To the Lighthouse or The Waves), and not written in her acknowledged stream of consciousness, Night and Day, Virginia Woolf's second novel, set in Edwardian London and published in 1919, comes as a determined stand on feminism and womanhood, written in a rather Victorian style — quite Brontë-ish, in my opinion, though not as furious and romantic as the three sisters — introducing memorable characters that intertwine in an emotional mesh throughout its pages.
If you don't relate to the subtle humor, it is going to be simply a long and drawn-out tale.
There are people like this and you need them in books.
If you cannot relate to the inner world of the respective characters you’re going to fall asleep.
The book is definitely too long.
As more and more characters are introduced, the more and more I loved the narration.
It is a book you read for the enjoyment attained from observing how different people see, define and feel love.
I have somewhat mixed feelings about this book.
She writes so beautifully, so that you are not only reading about the events that are unfolding in the story, but you can actually feel the atmosphere.
There is no character that is even remotely like the next.
The development of these characters is done in a grand fashion, and they are in no way straight forward.
There is a subtle humour included within this story, and I think this definitely needs to appreciated, so that one can enjoy the book.
The book is also definitely too long and drawn out.
Night and Day explores the inner workings of 4 characters as they try to understand the nature of their relations to others and the clash between the desires of the inner mind and the desire to fit in and do right.
Sometimes the consequence is that many turn away but sometimes, it's the only way to find someone to really understand or at the very least accept.All 4 characters are passionate and rich in detail.
Each time I am deeply moved by my relationship to the characters and by Ms. Woolf's astounding talent for beauty in words.
they never display what would be actual love towards one another: they never try to work for the other's benefit (except when it coincides with their understanding that it will be better for themselves in the longterm--argh--the cloying, martyred tone when they have to make short-term 'painful' sacrifices), take an interest in the other person's interests--in fact, they seem vaguely dismissive/condescending about each other's interests, and the breakthrough at the end is when 2 of them kind of get each other's doodlings and this makes them think they are completely united in understanding each other now (gag).
And it is so terribly, terribly upper middle class with its endless afternoon teas and excursions!
Woolf does have a few "working" characters, but they seem to start work at 10am, and are still available for expensive lunches and afternoon teas during the week.
I had a few issues with the ending too - (view spoiler)[ it just seemed so unlikely that Katharine's parents would go from kicking Ralph out one day, to warmly accepting him as a potential son-in-law the next, especially given the huge disparity in social class.
(hide spoiler)]I am planning to read Woolf's novels in order of publication.
But the best character is Mary Datchet, a young educated woman who lives alone and fights for women’s right to vote."I wonder why men always talk about politics?" Mary speculated.
"From ten to six every day I'm at it."As far as I can remember, this is the only book I’ve read where the theme of women’s suffrage is widely explored and an essential part of the story (Virginia Woolf also lightly touches on the subject in The Years) and this alone is enough to make this novel a worthy read."The simple elementary acts of justice," she said, waving her hand towards the window, and indicating the foot-passengers and omnibuses then passing down the far side of Russell Square, "are as far beyond them as they ever were.
I should like to stand at that crossing all day long and say: 'People, read Shakespeare!'"
Many times I said, "Enough already!" I know that at times the dragging on was suppose to be comical, but it wasn't funny to me.
I literally wanted to jump in the book and shake them out of their stupidity.
I wanted to just skip over a lot of it, but couldn't bring myself to, afraid to miss something beautiful in Woolf's writing.
My favorite part of the book was when Mary went to visit her family.
The main characters were kinda self-absorbed jerks - even in the end, one of the characters couldn't bring himself to do the right thing.
One could easily say that if Woolf had written no more books after VO and Night and Day that she would not have the stature she currently enjoys.
That admitted, reading Night and Day is a little like looking at paintings from Picasso's brief period of figural realism.
Night and Day is her most neglected novel, and it's not hard to see why.
And the answer, btw, to how in the world Woolf moved from this relatively conventional work directly to her first modernist novel is to be found in her experimental shorter fiction-- well worth the read.
Throughout much of the book, she tries to come to grips with how she can obtain it and whether such a thing even exists.Opposing Katharine's frame of mind and circumstances is Mary Datchet - a working suffragist who lives on her own.
Rather than socialize or go about the expected conventions of a holiday gathering, Katharine does what Woolfe herself seemed fascinated with for the rest of her life and career - she looks the void in the face, entering into a staring contest with existence that never produces a clear winner no matter who or what is involved.This story veers between styles, which gives it a slightly shaky story arc, but nevertheless, this book is a great look at the author early in her career.
Night and Day – Virginia Woolf’s second novel is a social comedy and a love story but also a subtle examination of women’s roles.
The narrative, like that of The Voyage Out – which I read last year – is much more conventional than her later modernist novels To the Lighthouse, and Mrs Dalloway that I read in January.
I enjoyed it enormously – it isn’t a difficult read, and these were characters I liked spending time with.Night and Day is a slightly longer novel than I associate with Woolf, I confess on a busy tiring week it took me the whole week to read.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0076...Description: Set in London before World War I, this novel explores the truth of feelings and particularly the nature of love.
Episode 1: Katherine and Mary are challenged over their assumptions about love, in pre-First World War London.
Episode 2: Katharine is engaged, but her secret admirer is also in Norfolk, invited by torn suffrage campaigner Mary.
With Dervla Kirwan."William, how you do go on about feelings"4* Mrs Dalloway4* To the Lighthouse3* Night and Day4* Orlando1* The WavesTR Between the Acts2* Flush3* A Haunted House and other short stories
It is well-written and beautiful, but I felt a distinct lack of empathy for the main character Katharine, whom I had wanted so much to like.
Her personality and circumstances should have resonated with me, but as bored and frustrated as she was with her life, I found myself losing touch with her motives.Meanwhile I loved Mary's character.
But goddamnit, why couldn't there have been more scenes of Mary + Katharine being friends?
I went into it expecting Clarissa + Sally levels of friendship awesomeness, and Peter levels of amazing character, but what I got was feminism.
I assume Woolf was attempting to write a story about finding your true love, rather than marrying who seems appropriate, and sticking it to traditional gender and class norms, yet Night and Day was a bore.Katherine was unlikable.
I couldn't believe that she still couldn't truly acknowledge that she loved Denham at the end - his presence just made her happy.
In the end she is just left with her work, and as readers we are supposed to assume that she has truly found her happiness?
I would have preferred Katherine and Rodney to have stayed together because they were both conceited, and reading their demise would have been more entertaining.

... ♥ ...
Setting this aside for now.
Night and Day isn't bad, really--it's just not To the Lighthouse or The Waves or Mrs Dalloway or her diaries or any of the other Woolfbooks I would rather read (or reread, in Mrs. D's case) at the moment.
I liked The Voyage Out, but if I hadn't already read some of Virginia Woolf's later novels before embarking on a chronological reading of Virginia Woolf's work from the beginning, I would probably just stop here entirely instead of skipping over it to the next one.
It's not you, Virginia.
It's just some of your early stuff.
those who know me know that the novel that make me the crankiest is woolf's Mrs. Dalloway.
dalloway, and before the stream-of-consciousness style really took hold.the good:• juliet stevenson is an excellent narrator.
i believe she made me care about the story more than if i had i read it in print.• i was fully able to appreciate woolf's writing.
her writing is elegant.the not-so-good:• i just didn't feel much for these characters at all and, consequently, struggled to get into the story.
dalloway, i felt irritated while reading, and couldn't muster empathy.i had high hopes for this novel and wish it had gone better for me.
