https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66355.Mathematics_for_the_Million
I actually really enjoy this book but the first time this book was given to me I passed it on to a friend who is much more math loving and math inclined than I.
A few years later I asked him how he enjoyed it and he proceeded to become my tutor.
I don't know that I would have developed such a strong interest, respect and a certain fondness for a language that I would have sworn could never be a native tongue of mine.This isn't an easy affair, though some readers out there are probably laughing and saying "I mastered the highest level of math covered in that book by the time I reached 8th grade." If so, more power to you, I applaud you.
I read this in high school or shortly thereafter. I like the way the Author presents the concepts historically. Once I found a paperback version, I bought it immediately. As soon as my sister, an ex-math teacher, saw it, she wanted it, so I had to buy another for her. The projects would probably be good for parents to do with their kids, like the makeshift astrolabe. I would recommend this to homeschoolers and others who want to expand their knowledge of both mathematics and its history.
Hard for me to believe that anyone would rate this book lower than a five.
It is a unique and fascinating book that looks at the historical development of mathematics with a clear focus on the most practical of mathematical applications (from geometry to statistics) but doesn't shy away from the great leaps of logic and calculus.
I learned more math from this book as a young teen than from any other source or teacher - and I LIKED learning it.
It's written in a pretty old-fashioned style nowadays but that plus the beautiful hand drawn diagrams make it a fantastic book
I keep this around as a basic text. It covers everything you need to know about mathematics. Lancelot Hogben is 007. His person history is wild.
Okay, a book on math that's over 600 pages long!
Hogben starts with an interesting story about how Diderot was shamed in a public debate with Euler, who presented a purported mathematical proof of the existence of God. Because Diderot had no knowledge of algebra, he conceded the debate and walked out.
Weird, eh?Hogben then explains how Achilles can catch up to the tortoise.
He explains why this was such a puzzle to the Ancient Greeks, and how the puzzle can be elegantly and simply solved by present-day, grade-school mathematical expressions and a simple graphical diagram.
One of my favorites . Book to be studied over and over again !
great book . Essential for anybody who wants to understand mathematics
Written in the 1930s and reissued in 2017, it's an attempt to provide mathematical instruction up to around A-level standard (though obviously the curriculum has changed a lot) for someone who, perhaps, doesn't respond well to the classroom and works better from self-teaching.It's telling of the way popular science was considered in the period that apparently the author delayed publication as he was up for election to Fellowship of the Royal Society, which back then was dead against science popularisation.
It's not approachable enough to read purely for fun, but Hogben's distinctive, quirky style, combined with what is sometimes a rather tedious approach to the maths, means that it's not the best way for a modern reader, with no mathematical training, to learn about the subject.
When I think of this book, I think of my father who died 23 years ago . He had a copy of this book given to him by his father-in-law. This was either to get him through U-Conn Engineering Math after WWII or artillery school-Officer training during WWII. He was very good at practical mathematics and could estimate distances by sight as well as figure out math in his head which was helpful for his as a textile mill manager. I am puttering around with this one and am reminded of him.
I think it will take me a year to finish this book. I have to stop to think about most of the pages and even go to the dictionary and look up some of the words. I will eventually finish. I like the way that the author tells the history of mathematics and its uses starting from ancient times. I still don't fully understand some of the concepts, so I'll probably read it again someday.
Math for the layman, written in 1940's. (Quotes on back from Einstein and H.G. Wells.) Excellent writing, though a bit dated in areas. Possibly because it's so dated, had some interesting angles on some concepts. Probably not for someone who wasn't already comfortable with some math.(Really 4.5)
must read for all those who find mathematics challenging.
Noam Chomsky cites the author of this book as a "left intellectual" because he tries to popularize mathematics.In the introduction he writes some pretty powerful words about what mathematics is and what it does...the meat of the book (which i haven't read yet, and may not get around to reading any time soon) is a historical telling (mostly, but not exclusively, from the 'western' perspective) of how several mathematical ideas developed and the way in which they were used at the time.However, the introduction itself is worth checking out!
Surprisingly good for a lefty discussion of relatively easy maths. The parts where Hogben teaches us about how numbers work are wonderful examples of math instruction; the parts where he waxes lyrical about socialism could well lead to a wonderful example of mass destruction.
Decent math, dry exposition, intrusive politics. George Orwell quotes Hogben among others in his essay Politics and the English Language as examples of writing "below the average" that exhibit "staleness of imagery" and "lack of precision". Fitting.
greta book
Grade: 78% / 'C'
A sweep of some grandeur over the rise of mathematics, from calendar civilisations to the great flowering in Alexandria and beyond. A breathtaking achievement.
I'm actually reading the second edition, from 1937, the 17th printing (1945). It has 686 pages.
