https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9551.Shadow_of_the_Almighty
"He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep, to gain that which he cannot lose." This book could be read as a prequel to Through Gates of Splendor, also by Elisabeth Elliot. It is basically a biography of the life of Jim Elliot, from the perspective of his wife, his lengthy and detailed journals and his letters to his family/friends.Jim Elliot's life was cut tragically short when he and four fellow missionaries were murdered by the Auca Indians in 1956 during one of their first outreaches to t
This story is told in Through Gates of Splendor.On reading about Jim's school life and growing experiences, I was impressed with his dedication to personal holiness and spiritual discipline.
Whether or not it was the right decision, I'm sure that Elliot believed it was and God has obviously used his testimony (and that of the others that died) for many years after his death.
Lengthy journal extracts and letters about flora and fauna, Elliot's personal spiritual experiences, details of his growing attachment to Elisabeth, may be exciting reading for his wife and family but I found it a struggle not to lose interest.
Jim Elliot's short, powerful life reminded me of what Christ's own life showed first: we are all born to die. It's up to us whether our lives simply peter out (result of the Fall and all that) or whether we find an altar, choose a cross, draw a line, pick an Alamo, raise a flag, and say, "Here. For this. For this I will give my life." One decision, many moments, throughout all the life God gives us.
The author and wife of Jim Elliot tells his story primarily through his own letters and journal entries, rather than her own narration, allowing the reader to dig deep into the mind and heart of Elliot without the distraction of author bias.
It is Jim Elliot's poetry and eccentric writing style that give Shadow of the Almighty its novel-like appeal.As with any biography, the reader is first and foremost acquainted with who Jim Elliot was, what made him the man he was by the time he died.
When Jim finally allowed himself to ACT on the desires that God had put into his heart and the opportunities that God opened up for him, he blossomed like one of the flowers of which he was so fond.
It is very evident that the Lord placed the desire for mission work in Ecuador in Jim's heart.
(With the caveat that the desired object meets godly and biblical prerequisites, which the mission field and the wife did.) It is still very unclear to me, when Jim accepted God's gifts, what it was that finally made it okay.
Mr. Washington, however, considered it an obligation to serve his country by defending the budding United States from tyranny--and indeed, several prominent Quakers left their sect and their pacifism to fight against the British in the Revolutionary War. So while I suppose I can respect Mr. Elliot's strength of conviction, I do not understand it, and I suspect that he would have been mightily offended by Mr. Washington's ability to reconcile his faith with serving in war.On the other hand, I have the deepest and most profound respect for Mr. Elliot's service to the kingdom of God. And I confess--as one who does not experience the voice of God except through His Word, I am rather jealous of someone who could be so completely convinced of his calling and his duty.
And he considered staying with his daughter "babysitting"?), I also do believe that he seemed to be growing into a more mellow, more palatable person as he aged.
This one's a biography of Jim Elliot, a missionary who was killed on the job in Equador back in 1956.
Whereas the Woodrow Wilson biography I read preceding this one was a well crafted story, Shadow is more a collection of diary and correspondence excerpts, weaved together by a bit of narrative.
Jim Elliot was more faithful in his lifetime than I've been, even though I've had almost twice as much time to get it right.
Anyway, the life of Jim Elliot is a tale that should be told.
I just not sure that Shadow of the Almighty is the best way to tell it.
Written by his wife, this book gives a very personal look into his story.However, I'd give the readability of this book 3.5 stars.
Although the book content was wonderful, the way this book is written- full of many diary and letter excerpts- makes it harder to follow along than other biographies, and it doesn't flow as well.Overall, Shadow of the Almighty is a great book with great content (the picture inserts were a neat addition).
It was just a little harder to "get into" then most other missionary biographies for me because of the style it was written in.
"I see clearly now that anything, whatever it is, if it be not on the principle of grace, it is not of God. Here shall be my plea in weakness; here shall be my boldness in prayer; here shall be my deliverance in temptation; at last, here shall be my translation.
Not of grace?
Then not of God.""I think there is nothing so startling in all the graces of God as His quietness.""We have found great joy in coming to the field as God's free folk.
“One does not surrender a life in an instant. That which is lifelong can only be surrendered in a lifetime. Nor is surrender to the will of God (per se) adequate to fullness of power in Christ. Maturity is the accomplishment of years, and I can only surrender to the will of God as I know what that will is.”"He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose."
Mereka juga tidak akan menyetujuinya.Apakah perbedaan antara hidup bagi Kristus dan mati bagi-Nya begitu besar?
Lagipula, hidup bagi Tuhan berarti mati bagi Tuhan "setiap hari", sebagaimana yang disimpulkan oleh Rasul Paulus.
Itu berarti menanggalkan segala sesuatunya agar kita bisa mendapatkan Kristus.Dengan demikian berarti kita harus menyerahkan hidup kita agar kita bisa menemukan kehidupan.Hubungan antara manusia dan Allah merupakan hubungan yang sangat praktis.
Ia hanya melakukan apa yang diperintahkan oleh Bapa-Nya untuk dilakukan-Nya dan melakukan itu dengan sukacita.Orang yang ingin mengenal-Nya harus berjalan di jalan yang sama dengan-Nya. Inilah arti dari kata 'martir' secara Alkitabiah, yang secara sederhana berarti "saksi".
But don’t let that distract you as the reader: this book challenged me to think about the sacrifices involved with missions and also convicting to think about how young Jim Elliot and his fellow missionaries were when they went out to try to reach the unreached Huaorani tribe which of course they were eventually killed by when they were contacting them.
Of course, the rest is history—as a result of their deaths, God used it to call more Christians to the missions field with their example and martyrdom.
I plan one day to read Through Gates of Splendor also.
He learned to enjoy grace over time, but never wavered in his fervour to serve God.This time, I saw the same man, but one who was so dedicated to what he believed God wanted for his life, that he lost it: killed by the very people he was trying to reach with the gospel.
Still looking for my thing, still learning about God and myself and doing the best I can with what He has given me.Particularly interesting to me this time round was his relationship with Elisabeth, the author of this impressive biography and the woman he eventually married.
It is one of my all-time favorites as it describes the short life of a man whose motto was the very Kingdom centered "He is no fool who gives up what he can not keep to gain that which he can not lose." The passion and resolve of Jim Elliot to follow the leading of God, which for him was to the unreached tribes of South America, ultimately led to his death and the death of his four teammates as they tried to share the gospel with a dangerous yet unreached tribe.Dying before his 30th birthday, his young life and the lives of the other missionaries sparked a great movement in churches in the 1950s to go to the ends of the earth with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
A few weeks earlier, our Bible study leader (who is now in seminary) was so inspired by this book that he bought each of us a copy.
No TV, no distractions, cold depressing January, and Mrs Elliot held my complete attention with this awe inspiring tale.
Fast forward 3 years, and a friend/former Bible study guy is moving across the country to train to become a missionary pilot, citing this book as a turning point in his life.
It's almost frightening to see what is possible when one dedicates his life completely to Christ.Frightening for reasons other than head hunting natives.
Jim Elliot was very much a modern-day Paul.
His love for God and passion for sharing the gospel are admirable.
I found myself wondering at first what more he could have done had he lived a longer life but then realized that through his wife's sharing of Jim's story, countless people have been touched.
Again, proof that God's plan is greater than any we can come up with.
I plan to read more of Elisabeth's writing as I have been inspired by these two.
"The principle of getting by spending is illustrated by the actions of God: 'He had yet one, a Beloved Son.''He giveth not the Spirit by measure.''He spared no His own son.''He emptied Himself.'Is heaven the poorer for this spending? Nay, both heaven and earth are enriched by it: Who dare not follow God's example?" (P.250)
The life and testament of Jim Elliot has served to increase my faith like nothing I've ever read, outside the Bible. Jim believed in a deep, serious obedience to Christ. And he was very unashamed of it. That's how he lived and that's how he died.
After listening to Elisabeth Elliot in Urbana, IL at a Inter-Varsity mission conference I read the book. I have a deep respect for Jim and Elisabeth. I love the quote on the front of the book and have used it many times.
His prolonging of marriage was not a bad thing (I think there are definitely those who are called to singleness for the Kingdom), but Jim was essentially emotionally and relationally married to Elisabeth for years before they made the commitment, which I think was wrong.
I think this decision and several others lacked judgment, so I think great discernment is needed when reading this.
Nonetheless, Elisabeth does show how some of his views matured over time.All in all, great testimony.
Elisabeth Elliot's book Through Gates of Splendor is more of an account of these final days, so I'd recommend that book instead if that's what you want to know about.
Shadow of the Almighty is a really good book! The whole book is basically Jim Elliot's writings to parents, siblings, and Elizabeth plus his journal entries. Although it doesn't "flow" super well and isn't the captivating and exciting book that always keeps your attention, it was impacting to me to see just how human Jim was. Many of his writings started out telling how he was discouraged, disappointed with himself, and just very down. It was so neat to see that he wasn't anything amazing...just an ordinary guy who surrendered everything to Jesus!
For content; an excellent book. Powerful testament of the life & death of Jim Elliot, a US missionary to the Haorani & Quechua indians of Ecuador. Finished the book convicted and encouraged for boldness of faith like Jim’s. In terms of form/style, the book is a compilation of Jim Elliot’s prayer book, journal, and letters to family. At times it doesn’t flow perfectly, and could be confusing trying to keep track of who a passage was written to, but don’t let this stop you from reading it.
Very challenging. I enjoyed listening to Elisabeth Elliot read this book. Lots of great quotes from this young man who was faithful to serve his Saviour and wrestle with the difficult questions of life.
This book is incredibly impactful. Beginning it, I believed that it was the story of a man’s death. I did not realize this was not the case until after I finished the book. This book is the story of a man’s incredible faith and obedience throughout his entire life. We are given a front row seat to how Jim Elliot lived every single aspect of his life for God. Amazing book.
This is one of the best biographies and missions oriented books I have read. I learned so much about God in reading this book and His heart for the world to see all nations, tribes, and tongues know Jesus. "It is His business to lead, command, impel, send, call, or whatever you want to call it. It is your business to obey, follow, move, respond, or what have you."
I finally finished this story about the life of Jim Elliot. I am reviewing the book. The book was definitely written in another generation for an other generation. Saying that at times I found the book dry and boring. I will also say the last third of the book was much more interesting to me. For those who want to read this, read a little at a time. It is well worth completing.
He knew without a shadow of doubt that unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground, it remains alone, but if it falls, it dies and bears much fruit.Ultimately, it was the same mantra that C.T Studd preached, "If Jesus Christ be God and died for me, then no sacrifice can be too great for me to make for Him," which Jim lived by.
Overall, a very satisfying read that does challenge the reader to live the higher life that we, as Christians, are all called to, filled with passion and vigor for Christ.
In Short: ‘Shadow of the Almighty’ is a biography by Elisabeth Elliot of her husband Jim, whose life was tragically taken in the 50s by an Ecuadorean tribe he was ministering to.For: It is a heart-breaking but inspiring tale that every Christian with a heart for the lost should familiarise themselves with.Rating: 3.5/5Elisabeth Elliot’s precursor to this book, ‘Through the Gates of Splendour,’ described in depth how a passionate group of young men left the safety of suburban America and took the gospel to an untouched Amazonian tribe.
It's hard to give any book by Elisabeth Elliot anything less than perfect, but I wanted the writing to move faster at times.
The book was on the life of Jim Elliot.
In his short life, Elliot had a huge impact on the world.
In the Equadorian jungle the Indian has not reached that 'level of culture' -- he has neither respect, manifested by apparent attention when it is being read, nor reverence, manifested in obedience to it.
This is a very inspiring book about Jim Elliot's love for God and his strong faith.
It was very challenging and encouraging reading about how Jim lived for God, despite his desire to get marry and the initial opposition of his parents.
Favorite Quote: "'Delight thyself also in the Lord, and He shall give thee the desires of thine heart.' God had given us that desire, and perhaps in the sense in which Jim had interpreted it in a letter to me written in 1949: 'It does not say He will give you what you want.
As an 18 year old freshman at Wheaton College, Elliot earned a reputation for having a “one-track mind” and for being a “woman-hater” because he refused to date, feeling it would distract him from his goals.
It seemed to me that Jim Elliot didn’t do anything -- make any decision -- without considering how it would profit his soul, benefit another individual, or most importantly, advance the cause of the Gospel of Christ and his goals to contribute to that cause.
For example, in high school Jim was on the track team and in college he was on the wrestling team.
