https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12700353-me-and-earl-and-the-dying-girl
“If after reading this book you come to my home and brutally murder me, I do not blame you.”  I know this is an awful thing to say, but I am so tired of all the "illness romance" books we've seen since The Fault in Our Stars. They're so hung up on leaving the reader with a beautiful message about life and/or death, so intent on making you cry and showing how a person can gain a new outlook or fall in love from being close to someone with a terminal illness. In real life, very few people are luc
Andrews knows it, and he does such a great job of delivering a book that is hilarious with colourful characters, that contains a girl with cancer, but doesn't strain itself to give us a life lesson.
Maybe you won't like this sentiment, but it felt a million times more honest and real than any other book about illness that I can remember.I think that what I like about Me and Earl and the Dying Girl is what's lacking in Green's work.
this is probably the best debut novel i have ever written.
This book was HILARIOUS.
I was cracking up laughing literally every other page or so.
I loved the characters, I loved the unique formatting (there were lists and screenplay excerpts and the way the main character addressed the reader--it was very different, and very cool) and again, I LOVED the humor!
I didn't feel like the plot/story arc was super strong, but honestly this book was so freaking funny and entertaining, I didn't really mind.And I am so pumped for the movie!
I can't wait to see how/if the humor and unique feel of this book translates to the big screen.
re-read (again) in June 2015Awesome sauce. Teared up when shit got real and Earl told Greg what's what (as always). This movie is going to slay me. upon reading for the first time Oh my goodness... What did I just read? I finally have a gif to describe my feels...Here it is, folks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y3e_2...
If after reading this book you come to my home and brutally murder me, I do not blame you. Greg Gaines survived (most of) high school by following his flawless system of staying at the periphery - be nice but not  too  nice. Laugh but not  too  loud. Exist...but only enough for people to  barely  notice. He has his meritocracy, his long-time friend (Earl) and his quirky collection of homemade movies (made with Earl) - he's all ready to survive, graduate and move on.But then his mom decides to t
He has his meritocracy, his long-time friend (Earl) and his quirky collection of homemade movies (made with Earl) - he's all ready to survive, graduate and move on.But then his mom decides to throw one huge wrench in his great aims of blending into the background - 
So if this were a normal book about a girl with leukemia, I would probably talk a shitload about all the meaningful things Rachel had to say as she got sicker and sicker, and also probably we would fall in love and have some incredibly fulfilling romantic thing and she would die in my arms.
She didn't have meaningful things to say, and we definitely didn't fall in love.
Overall a great read. Jesse Andrews needs to release more books! My full review can be found here:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_9lbe...
There were some parts of this book were laugh-out-loud funny, but the non-funny bits and the kind of useless annoying bits made it a one star for me.SPOILER DISCUSSIONCan I just talk about how much I hated all the "this is such a bad book I don't even know why I'm writing this I'm going to throw the laptop if you're enjoying this you should punch your own eye" parts.
And I think that's the issue, even when Rachel died I was like, "eh, what a shame." Greg seemed like a total jerk, I could get used to Earl in a way and I actually enjoyed his character, but it was just odd.Another thing about this book, it felt like it was trying so hard to be eccentric and different.
And I guess I do know what to say about this one, but my thoughts are very different from other people, so just keep in mind that we all perceive things, characters, scenes, etc.
To make his life simpler, he even decides to befriend everyone at school, without really befriending them, so he could steer clear of any drama befalling him, too.Now I liked him.
The ones that aren’t always written in paragraphs and very often use book-related props: letters, bullet points, various fonts, etc.I liked its original narration and Greg himself.
a lot of people are commenting on this so i just wanted to add really quick loli read this book like 2 years ago but i was going through my 'read' list and noticed i gave this four stars which was weird because this book was shit so that's that
The main character is unlikeable in an attempt to make the book realistic, but in reality it was just annoying.
This book tried so hard to be edgy and real...
Oh and don't even get me started on the fact that the girl had no agency and her illness was still used as a motivator for the male main character...
Spoiler alert: that's what every other shitty sicklit book does - frames the story around the not sick person.I'm no TFIOS fan, but I'd take that over this any day because this was trying way too hard.
For this review I need to post a gif of Jesse Andrews kicking John Green's ass. But:* I don't know how to make gifs myself. I just steal them from other spots on Google.* I'm too lazy to even try and learn to make my own gifs. * I don't especially hate John Green (take that you haters) I read TFIOS and it was an okay book. Not very realistic to someone who has survived lived with teenagers.This book is about Greg Gaines. He just wants to make it through his last year of high-school. He knows not
He ends up caving because of the nagging.This book is not deep and life altering.
This book is what all young adult books should be if they didn't have their asses on crooked and think that young people always think deep thoughts.
That's more the norm.Take Greg for instance:So if this were a normal book about a girl with leukemia, I would probably talk a shitload about all the meaningful things Rachel had to say as she got sicker and sicker, and also probably we would fall in love and have some incredibly fulfilling romantic thing and she would die in my arms.
The problem is, I can appreciate snarky when I like the character.
Heaven knows I can speak in language that would make my mother cringe and a sailor seem tame.I was so excited to find a book with an African American character represented on the front cover.
Pursues film school at the behest of the dying girl.I think it really got to me when Greg described the school principal "an African American guy", big and scary and with the same "pissed" look that Earl has.
That was a weird little book.
I mean, you can know someone is dying on an intellectual level, but emotionally it hasn't really hit you, and then when it does, that's when you feel like shit.”Greg showed a lot of growth in the end from going from a character who didn't seem like he gave a shit to one who became obsessed with helping a friend, who didn't realize how much her dying was affecting him.“And the point of Rachel the Film should really have been to express how awful and shitty that loss was, that she would have become a person with a long awesome life if she had been allowed to continue living, and that this was just a stupid meaningless loss, a motherfucking loss, a loss loss loss fucking loss, there was no fucking meaning to it, there was nothing that could come out of it...”What I loved the most was how Me, Earl and the Dying Girl showed a teen who didn't know how to deal with losing a friend, something I'm sure many teens don't understand.
I have never in my whole life laughed this much while reading a book.
Nothing much really happens--in terms of both plot or character development--and despite that, driven alone by the MC, Greg's, humorous voice, the book ends up being an awesome read.Just to lay out how hilarious Greg's jokes are, here's an excerpt--although keep in mind, it's MUCH funnier in context:...it's just never a good idea to compliment a girl's boobs.
Some of the novel is in script format, and parts of it are so hilarious I had cramps from laughing so hard.I will admit, however, that sometimes Greg's jokes did get a tad tiring.
Even though at the end of each chapter (and there are 40 chapters, plus an author's note and an epilogue), the narrator keeps nagging at the reader about how stupid this book is and how the reader will not learn anything, I on the contrary have an endless list to negate such claim.
All of these things and more are what I learned from the book: 1.
If the author through his main character keeps warning you to stop reading his "stupid book", by all means read it.
* Note: The classifications of high school factions are from the book.
I learned one from the book.
4-4.5 stars Me and Earl and the Dying Girl: YA book #3 for me in 2016.
I’m texting Beverly and she’s all “Chris- see if they have hardback copies of this book we’re listening to.” So, I go to the YA and look for a hardback.
So now we both have a signed copy of this awesome book!
Moving on- So Me and Earl and the Dying Girl how do I even explain or review this book?
This is not just a book about a dying girl.
I enjoyed this book so much, I’m going to buy the movie this weekend… lets hope it’s good!
This was funny and realistic and I kinda don't really know how to feel about it
This was a pretty freaking great book. I really enjoyed it and laughed out loud at a lot of parts. It's not your typical YA - or typical cancer story for that matter - and that's what I loved about it. READ IT.
Of course, Andrews does not (yet) have a publicity platform of Green's magnitude to promote his novel, so I am glad to be able to help him out a little, because, from my perspective, Me and Earl and the Dying Girl is a better, more honest, more real book than The Fault in Our Stars.It is better mainly because it does not try to force you into feeling all the obvious things we are expected to feel reading stories about young, terminally ill characters.
But even towards the end when (view spoiler)[she was dying (hide spoiler)], all he thought about was how he didn't want her to die and it made him really sad.Nice Natalie: Greg already warned us ahead of time this isn't the kind of book where he goes through Acceptance and receives some big epiphany about life or something.
I was a fourteen-year-old girl once and I'll kick him right in his experimental-film-loving nuts.Nice Natalie: He wasn't that pretentious.
But Rachel, whom this book is supposed to revolve around, hardly has any personality.Nice Natalie: That's because Greg never took the time to know her.
Not that funny as I excepted. Definitely a great contempoary for these days. Highly recommend it.Full review to come!
An exchange. “I think I’m gonna go and read my book.”“Oh? Which book is it?”“Just this hilarious book about cancer.”And you should’ve seen the glare I received. Icyyyy. You see that is the problem I fear I’m going to have with this book. I want to run around wildly and throw this book at people and yell “READ IT!” and they’ll be like “Woah, Jo, what’s it about?! Tell me everything!”“IT’S AMAZING!!!!”“Is it, is it really?”“YES YES! WHY AREN’T YOU READING IT NOW?!”“WHY ARE WE TALKING IN CAPITAL L
Although, while I’ve been writing this I’ve realised that, in my trying to convince you this that this book isn’t about cancer, all I’ve done is talk about cancer.So, one last time with feeling or… um...y’know… bold writing.THIS BOOK ISN’T ABOUT CANCER.So seeing as I’ve just been chatting on about this book is not about, I should probably talk about what it actually is about, shouldn’t I?This book, in a nutshell, is about a boy stumbling wildly through adolescence with the help of a brilliant and hilarious friend named Earl.Except I don’t really mean help… because Earl doesn’t really help him as such.
I’m sure some of you read the blurb and thought: Not another cancer book!
And, unlike most books in which a girl gets cancer, there are definitely no sugary paradoxical single-sentence-paragraphs that you’re supposed to think are deep because they’re in italics.
When a girl from his school gets leukemia, Greg’s mother makes Greg spend time with her, and as much as he doesn’t want to, he’s too afraid of his mother to say no.
There are times when that’s exactly what I’m looking for: a light, fun read that will allow me to focus on other, more important things.
After Greg decided to give up on having other friends (or ever getting a girl), he and Earl spent all their free time making their own versions of their favorite movies.
He gives you zero time to pity the poverty and drugs he has been raised around – instead he is just a constant ball of hilarity and brilliance and I remain smitten.If you’re concerned about this being a replay of “A Fault In Our Stars” and turning into a huge boo-bag because you’re reading a book that flat out tells you it’s about a dying girl, have no fear.
"Me and Earl and the Dying Girl" is crude, lewd, silly, heartbreaking, sweet, cynical, honest, and too smart for its own good.
Probably one of the funniest YA novels I've had the pleasure of reading.
I also recommend watching the movie.
Actually, the movie is pretty tame compared to the book (a lot less profanity and sexual directness).
Thomas Mann who plays Greg Gaines in the film knocks it out of the park!
Holy hell, he's talented.
Jesse Andrews is weird little writer (I like weirdoes) who does a fine job of balancing humor and heart.
Give this offbeat novel a try.
I enjoyed this book and thought it was really funny at times, but overall, it was kind of disappointing. I guess it was just a lot of hype, but I think it'll make a pretty good movie, and I'm really excited to see it when it comes out :)
Such an unusual approach to this kind of story; a guy's reluctant friendship with a girl who's suffering with Leukemia, and while it should be a coming of age with some heartwarming scenes I spent most of the novel thinking he's a gigantic dick. And that just made it feel more real and understandable. That might seem like a strange sentence until you read the book.
Earl was the worst he really cared for Rachel more then Greg did and i could sense that but he really has no bussiness being in a book that might possibly be picked up by a fourth or fifth grader.
The author should have more considerate in what was put in his or her's book because the children who read are the children of the future and if we want them all mini Earls then let them keep reading things like this.
Greg is not as selfish as the book and this time he does cry whenever Rachel passes away which got me.
☺ Edit 06/18 : The movie looks fantastic! Me want. Trailer▧ Impromptu reread because what's better than starting vacations laughing? ▧This is it. Second time I read it and my opinion didn't change. Yes this is immature at times but what did you expect? The teenagers here feel real. Don't wait for the big revelations, for the meaningful things these kids have to say, you'd be disappointed. Don't wait for The Great Romance, either. That's just LIFE and I adored it for its honesty. “It's like when
▒ Original review (December 2014) ▒I'd been thrown off guard.To read this book was the best and the worst idea I could have : - Perfect because I couldn't stop laughing.- Not-so-perfect because I couldn't stop laughing in public.
Listen to Greg : "If after reading this book you come to my home and brutally murder me, I truly do not blame you"PS: And I didn't talk about Earl!
That's all you need to know."So I said, "Ugh, there was just this badger picture in my head for some reason."It goes without saying that the moment those words left my lips, I wanted to do serious injury to myself."Badger," Madison repeated.
