https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161888-pop-1280
well, happily, Nick's also a Medici-level manipulator, stone-cold killer, and demented psychopath.
Inner Maniac saves the day!
or does he?what i enjoyed most about this grotesque and mordant death-farce was how simultaneously likeable and unlikeable Thompson made Nick.
and a maniac.
but he's so much smarter than anyone else around him and he does such a good job at fooling everyone into thinking he's a useless lackwit that he becomes bizarrely appealing.
who knows, let's just say i was led like a lamb right into uh oh, i'm rooting for the bad guy land.
Jim Thompson hates humans.
Providing, o' course, that he's either colored or some poor white trash that can't pay his poll tax." In the introduction to this dark masterpiece plumbing the abyss of a twisted mind, Daniel Woodrell hits the nail of meaning squarely on the head :  In this novel Thompson attacks just about all of the big ogres of American existence - poverty, racism, labor, social hypocrisy in general, and the relaxed enforcement of laws for those who have amassed gold, the brutal enforcement for those who haven't.
With or without Nick Corey, Potts County is not high on the list of places I want to visit and of people I would like to meet.
Όσο, όμως, κυκλοφορείς στα αναγνωστικά μονοπάτια, δίχως προσδοκίες αλλα με τσαγανό και τόλμη θα ανταμειφθείς.Ο Τόμσον μου συστήθηκε ποικιλοτρόπως (από κάποιον αναγνώστη, κάποια πρόταση, κάτι που διάβασα εγώ), ως ένα ανάγνωσμα για όσους αρέσκονται στην λογοτεχνία του Αμερικάνικου Νότου: αίμα, ιδρώτας, αργκό, άνθρωποι δίχως πολλές ελπίδες και με μια ζωώδη θέληση για επιβίωση και συντριβή.
Είναι έρμαια της βλακείας τους και των κοντόφθαλμων επιδιώξεών τους, και το να βλέπεις έναν χαρακτήρα όπως ο Νικ, να την φέρνει σε όλους, να κάνει πραγματικά ένα τσίρκο τις ζωές των ανθρώπων που ήθελαν να τον πατήσουν, είναι μια απόλαυση.
I've been in a particularly itchy headspace for this lately due to being recently caught in the clutches of Harrelson and McConaughey's new serial, True Detective (and if you haven't sat down to watch the three existing episodes of that Next Great Drama, first of all color me envy green, and second: dear god go remedy that right now), which is everything I always want cinematic crime thrillers to be, more often than not finding myself largely disappointed.
But Nick has figured out a way to deal with some of his issues, and if that means shotgunning a few folks, then you can hardly blame the poor man.The obvious comparison here is to Thompson’s other novel about a small town law man with a serious dark side, The Killer Inside Me. Both Lou Ford and Nick Corey hide their real intelligence and contempt for most people behind a mask of pure good old boy redneck, and they take great delight in using their seeming stupidity to tie people into knots.
Nick Corey is the High Sheriff of Potts County and kind of a simpleton.
It's a front for the fact that he's a manipulative, cold-blooded killer.
He kills two pimps and tricks another sheriff into taking the blame.
He launches a smear campaign against another man running for sheriff.
Jim Thompson is an undiscovered gem, light years ahead of the other pulp writers of his day.
Even though he's a scumbag, watching the master manipulator in action is something to behold.
It's definitely a page turner after the first couple of pages.Jim Thompson is the real deal.
It sat here and sat here, garnering little attention, working its way down the list of those I was anxious to read, and then it happened, the event that would send this to the top of my priority list…I started reading Gravity’s Rainbow , and all of the sudden anything else would do: in this case, large print was a plus, suggestions that it was humorous appealed to the I-need-that-right-now part of my brain, and besides, I’ll acquire a better sense of the noir that others seem fond of and which I’ve only experienced in reviews (shameful, my neglect of Hammett, Chandler, et al.), with an additional perk—the possibility of using chiaroscuro in a review, sounding brighter than I am (or aspire to be)—win, win.In I plunged, ready and willing, only to learn the novel is written in Rube-Speak!
Some might say that Sheriff Nick Corey does not play well with others.They would be wrong.Sheriff Nick Corey plays VERY WELL with others!No one can deny that his shit-kickin', good ole boy, down-home-hick act endears him to the townsfolk he is sworn to protect.
More's the pity there is no one to protect them from him.
Corey schemes and manipulates himself out of any crisis, and he'll do whatever is required to keep his cushy job.
Corey's lazy lawman routine is good for plenty of chuckles .
Turns out, Corey has quite a bit in common with "Killer's" protagonist, Lou Ford.
Another good tale from a master storyteller.
It's not only Corey it is every character, however minor, that gets the full fleshed out treatment making for a rich world for the story to take place in.Thompson seems to have influenced a whole lot of American authors, both in the noir genre and others of a literary persuasion, recently I've enjoyed great modern authors such as Cormac McCarthy, Donald Ray Pollock, Daniel Woodrell and Tom Franklin, all of whom owe a lot to the work of this man for example.Pop. 1280 was adapted in to a movie by French director Bertrand Tavernier in 1982, pre-dating the Hollywood fascination with the rediscovered works of Thompson by 8 years.
You want to find a nice woman and settle down, but with all these women you are sleeping with and all these clowns in town things just can't get right (with either you or the Lord) until a couple of these buggers are dead.
People in town might want you to do stuff.
Don't think your big towns are any better and don't think your suburban sprawl doesn't contain the rats, the hypocrites, the dark motives and strange bedfellows that seem to exist in the front room of Jim Thompson's brain.
"I hate to think that, Nick.""Maybe that's not what I mean," I said.
Or maybe I mean this, George, that I'm the savior himself, Christ on the Cross come right here to Potts County, because God knows I was needed here, an' I'm goin' around doing kindly deeds -- so that people will know they got nothing to fear, and if they're worried about hell they don't have to dig for it.
Someone recommended this book to me years ago.
More than five years ago, in fact.
They gushed about it about it to such an extent that I went out and bought several of Thompson's books.
Then they sat on my shelf for the next five years.
I just read this one, and it was every bit as good as my friend implied.
It's not my usual genre, almost a bit of a western (but not really).
But it's told in first person with such an amazing voice that I really wish I hadn't waited so long.
I'll be getting to this guy's other books much sooner than later.
A great noir/Western mash-up with a main character who constantly keeps you guessing. Is he a long-suffering good-ol'-boy? A master manipulator? A criminal mastermind? A downtrodden coward?Maybe he's just out-of-his-mind NUTS?Well, I wouldn't say you were right, but I wouldn't say you were wrong...
As sheriff in Potts County, Nick Corey's job (as he sees it) is to punish the heck out of people for bein’ people.
Or, as he would say people who go around sniffing crap with their mouth open, and acting surprised as hell when someone kicks a turd in it.This is another dark and, at times, funny Jim Thompson tale involving a small town sheriff.
I'm not sure that it's better or worse than The Killer Inside Me, but I guess I found Nick to be a less likable depraved psychopath than I did Lou (which could easily be a product of the order in which I read the books).
"I said I meant I was just doing my job, followin' the holy precepts laid down in the Bible. "It's what I'm supposed to do, you know, to punish the heck out of people for bein' people. To coax 'em into revealin' theirselves, an' then kick the crap out of 'em. And it's a god-danged hard job, Rose, honey, and I figure that if I can get a little pleasure in the process of trappin' folks I'm mighty well entitled to it."   This excerpt from Thompson's novel sums up the sheriff who's a sociopathic
"I said I meant I was just doing my job, followin' the holy precepts laid down in the Bible.
And it's a god-danged hard job, Rose, honey, and I figure that if I can get a little pleasure in the process of trappin' folks I'm mighty well entitled to it."
This excerpt from Thompson's novel sums up the sheriff who's a sociopathic murderer.
There's quite a few racist characters in this story I suppose the writer is trying to tell you how it was in a town back in the old days.This sheriff is not short of tricks and is smarter than he let's out.
I've read one other Jim Thompson book, Savage Night, and I was hard-pressed to believe that the same person wrote both. Savage Night didn't really appeal to me but I found Nick Corey, the small-town Texas sheriff in Pop. 1280 to be an absolute Machiavellian delight. Everybody may think he's a lazy, dimwitted good ole boy whose favorite line is "We'll, I'm not saying you're wrong but I'm not saying you're right either." Everybody would be wrong.I was intrigued to hear that Thompson's father was a Texas sheriff. I wonder how much of this story was drawn from real life.
However, underneath his outer simpleness and ignorance lies a philosophical, intelligent, dualistic mind trying to figure out the people (or as he calls it, 'souls') around him.
However, you could probably read this in multiple ways: As a simple crime novel, a thorough examination into the mind of a psychologically disturbed man, a strange string of conversations over a period of days...there are so many possibilities.I planned on digging into this book as deep as I could...but the thing is...I've explained it as best I could.
High Sheriff Nick Corey acts like a simpleton, he doesn’t arrest anyone, he doesn’t stir the pot, he acts and behaves the exact way everyone wants him to act; well at least the way he thinks he should act.
But with all the raging I was doing at Nick Corey, I almost missed just how brilliant this book really is.Jim Thompson is very experimental with his writing, and while he never really got the recognition he deserved when he was a live, his books are dark, gritty and always ringing an element of truth in it.
No one has ever done characters quiet like Jim Thompson; characters that always hiding their true nature and acting the way people want them to act, while hiding the darkness.
Creo que no he leído antes nada con personajes tan manipuladores (todos y cada uno de ellos) y con tanta mala leche. El libro se lee en dos “sentás” no tiene ni un momento de respiro y lo único que te pide es que tengas pocos escrúpulos. El final me ha hecho plantearme si me perdí algo o si todo era un nuevo sueño de Resines. No había leído nada del autor, ahora tengo ganas de más, buena señal.
Der vorliegende Band zeichnet sich durch einen oft überdrehten Humor aus, einen nicht mehr sarkastischen sondern längst zynischen Humor, mit dem die Ungeheuerlichkeiten, die Thompson dem Leser auftischt, erträglicher werden – der Leser muß sich aber der Tatsache stellen, daß er bereit ist, der Erzählung Nick Coreys, Sheriff in einem kleinen texanischen Kaff namens Pottsville zu Beginn des 20.
Und diese Erzählung hat es in sich.Seinem Bruder im Geiste, dem Deputy Lou Ford aus dem viel älteren Roman THE KILLER INSIDE ME, in nichts nachstehend, weniger einem Drang, also einer Determination folgend, sondern eher dem Lustprinzip verpflichtet, weiß dieser Kerl sich grundsätzlich dümmer zu stellen, als er ist, was ihm meist den Vorteil bringt, mehr zu wissen als alle anderen.
Nick Corey was one of those characters that is truly fascinating to read about but there is no way in the world you can feel for him, root for him even though you read the story from his POV.
His story was chilling,grim.
Writing ability wise this is the best Jim Thompson i have read, i was impressed word by word,the language, the real characters,the humor,the issues he wrote about.
He didnt just repeat The Killer Inside Me type lead character.
Some of the early Thompson novels feel more pulpy in the not so good sense and more dated.
Jim Thompson wrote about a lot of sociopaths, but the narrator of "Pop. 1280" is the tops--a cold-blooded sheriff who represents himself as a dumb, aw-shucks good old boy to his townspeople, to the reader, and to himself, even as he plots and does horrible things. By the time you get to the end, you need a shower.
Das zumindest legen einige Kritiker nahe, die auch auf Thompsons wechselvolles Leben, das er literarisch ausschlachtete, hinweisen.Besonders eine Stelle schien mir einen Erklärungsansatz zu bieten: „Die Leere.
Wenn auch unter anderen Vorzeichen, ist es auch bei Bateman die Leere, die sich mit Gewalt und Horror zu füllen beginnt.
Ja, ER war wahrhaftig voller Gnade und Güte.“Die Religiosität, die in Südstaaten-Geschichten stets so eine große Rolle spielt, wird auch hier immer präsenter und nimmt eine makabere Wendung.Ich habe den Roman gerne gelesen, würde aber nicht unbedingt gleich einen weiteren Thompson-Roman mit dermaßen zugespitzten Charakteren lesen wollen.
Chalk it up as another achievement in Jim Thompson's career, I guess, having written a novel that tackles both social, psychological and literary issues.
1280 is both a trademark Jim Thompson nightmare and a tremendous satire of turn-of-the-century American novels that abused vernacular.I can see your question coming from a mile away, though: Is it just like THE KILLER INSIDE ME?
I don't know.
I didn't read TKIM, but I've seen the movie.
1280 is a lot more abstract and experimental, for all I know.
1280 became a Jim Thompson cult classic for a reason.
Read it.
Another very dark book by Jim Thompson, similar in many ways to his earlier novel, The Killer Inside Me. Both are about a small town cops with a serious penchant for killing. In this one, Nick Corey pretends to be a lazy, do-nothing redneck, with a hen-pecking wife, who forces him to marry (good story there.) Meanwhile, he is on the prowl for female companionship, violence, and dropping the blame on others.
The first couple of chapters are pretty bad (in an intentional way that only becomes apparent later) and if this hadn't been a Jim Thompson book with a reputation I wouldn't have continued reading.
As the novel begins under his narration he comes off as a kind of eejit.
[Perhaps some narratology professor or grad student has already tackled the narrative modes of Nick Corey - if not, the terrain is ripe for some enterprising individual in the publish or perish world.] The simple answer is that this is a bit of sleight of hand by Thompson that allows the reader to be surprised as they discover what kind of character the sheriff really is, much as some of the other characters are surprised, just before he kills them.
My third Jim Thompson book (after The Killer Inside Me and The Grifters) and by far my favourite of the three.
Very dark story about local sheriff who at first seems to be a bit of an idiot and a layabout but is revealed as a schemer and a killer as you get into it.
Very clever and highly amusing at some points with some brilliant twists in the story.
Would have been a 5 star read but for the ending which to me was a bit of a letdown.
Το βιβλιο προτάθηκε σε μενα απο δυο φίλους-αναγνώστες με ιδιαίτερη θέρμη. Και είχαν δίκιο. Ένα βιβλιο που αφενός σε ταξιδεύει στην επονομαζόμενη άγρια Δύση και αφετέρου σε κάνει να μπεις στις σκέψεις ενός αντι-ήρωα, ενός σερίφη-λέρα που πάντα καταφέρνει να στρέψει τα πράγματα εκεί που επιθυμεί. Γεματο εκπλήξεις στη διάρκειά του, το βιβλιο μπορεί να κατηγορήθηκε για φτηνή λογοτεχνία τσέπης αλλά θεωρώ ότι ειναι ξεκάθαρα άδικη μια τέτοια κριτική. Σπάνια θα δούμε τέτοιους ήρωες.
I totally imagine his mind working exactly like Sheriff Nick Corey's, but more evil.
Like when Nick says "radius" and "ulna", it was like if shrub slipped and pronounced "nuclear" correctly.The only disappointment I had was that the climactic scene with Lennie didn't give me the masturbation fodder I was excited about, but that only added to the pure genius of reminding me just how shitty we all are, and how I'm not exempt.
I relate all too well to the Sheriff's lazy gluttony; when it's all so fucking futile, eating a dozen flaky buttermilk biscuits and seven pork chops in one sitting does seem less like over-indulgence and more like the only natural way to approach mealtime.
Soooooo...I spent all last summer reading (and in some cases re-reading) Jim Thompson. This is the guy that really drew me into the genre in the first place back when I was fourteen-years-old. And I still think there's really no voice like his. Pop. 1280 shares much with The Killer Inside Me. We see a seemingly incompetent Sheriff who in reality has an entirely different and horribly disturbing internal life. This book is also funny--In a pretty messed up way. HIGHLY recommend.
