https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1453576.Edgar_Cayce
I didn't think Edgar Cayce was anything particularly special in terms of spirituality, at the time - I kind of just thought he was some random guy who could channel and I was more interested in people who produced their work directly from their minds through rigorous thought or meditation.
This book made me realise what an incredible mystery EC was and how special he is in modern spiritual culture and times - He truly is an anomaly which made me question so much of what I thought about spirituality.
At one time in my life I read everything I could by and about Cayce.I don't now if this edition is what I read- there were many other books containing his 'readings. In the past I followed the doings of the Edgar Cayce Institute- that by the way helped many people. Cayce died in his early? 50s. I lost faith, you might say. Still, an amazing adventure.
Never thought I would read something like this...long story short, the book was sent to me by a woman after having an in-depth conversation about ghosts and spirits.
The next thing I knew, I had this book sent to me and a membership with the Cayce Foundation!
I felt obligated to at least peruse the text so that I could participate in a conversation with my "benefactor".
I found Edgar Cayce's story interesting, yet I remain skeptical of the authorship.
In the least, it offers another perspective on church doctrine- that is, one does not need the Vatican, the Temple, or Mohammad to find heaven.
When I read this book in junior high school, I was impressed and somewhat awed by Cayce's alleged powers. As a more skeptical adult, I realized that the author was writing more of a hagiography, and did not question the validity of any of the claims made on Cayce's behalf. Cayce remains a fascinating figure, however, and those who are interested in the more quotidian side of his existence should see or read the play about him, entitled "The Freak."
The prose is a bit dense but the story of this man changed my life.
I don't necessarily believe all of the things Edgar Cayce prophesied, but I appreciate the manner in which the information was laid out in this book. It was interesting to read, and written with an impartiality that left me to decide for myself. Well worth it for any reader with an open yet carefully discerning mind.
I'm totally embarrassed by how much I used to be obsessed with all things Edgar Cayce. That's all I have to say on all my reviews of his books.
Fabulous! My aunt Edna gave me this book to read when I was 9.
It skips around on a number of topics and gets into areas like past lives and Atlantis that I found wanting.
The book was written in the late 1960's and speculates on near term disasters especially global geophysical eruptions he predicted for this time.
They did not materialize along with the failure of the appearance of Atlantis which he predicted.
So in the prediction realm he did come up short on a number of things.
Yet his medical diagnosis of which he put in considerable work he often did seem to be on the mark.
I give this man 5 stars all the way across the board.He's simple Christian folk.He had what some cal
I know this comes up as a 1989 version but what I read was pulished in 1967.
When you read about and are amazed by Edgar Cayce's life and abilities, there is a significant diminishment when you read about how Atlantis is going to rise out of the ocean in 1983.
(I'm going by memory here, let's just say it was a year in the distant future of 1967 but the past of 2005).
So if he was wrong about that, what else was he wrong about?
I would like to know more about Edgar Cayce and this book is the reason.
I read this book many years ago and found it fascinating. Edgar Cayce definitely had a gift that really can't be explained or denied. I highly recommend it. I also recommend if you are anywhere near Virginia Beach to visit the Edgar Cayce Association for Research and Enlightenment. I can't guarantee that everything in the gift shop there is legitimate but when I visited last year they occasionally having informal talks by a lady in her 90s who worked with Mr. Cayce. I was fortunate enough to visit on one of those mornings and found the discussion very interesting.
As you know, I dabble in reading this type of stuff (reincarnation, 'true life' paranormal) and I'm not quite sure what about it holds such appeal for me. Vast amounts of this book were dedicated to Cayce's world prophecies, including Atlantis, which held less interest for me (and appear more bunkum) from the outset than his cold medical readings. It astounded me that in the mid-1960s a diagnosis of a woman's catatonia as related to the psychic wound of masturbating from the age of 18-39 was seemingly still relevant to Stearn. God help us all then.
read many many years ago & still am fascinated by the story.
It is true and Jess Stearn did a fine job of writing Mr. Cayce's life story.
Edgar Cayce was deeply religious as was his wife, and was a very serious young man when he was told that he had been talking in his sleep in a different voice about topics of which he knew nothing.
He fought it for years then finally accepted this gift from God and began to use his gift to help others.
A good introduction into this fascinating story and how his gift helped so many.
I am very skeptical of Cayce's theories although comparing to the Bible teachings, I have not been able to find contradictions yet.
This book has made me question so much of what I was raised to believe and what not to believe.
I now am anxious to investigate and be more clear as to what is really true and what I was raised to believe was wrong may not be so wrong.
I intend to read some more on Edgar Cayce and if nothing else find his life fascinating.
Definitely a good read.
Reading of this man and his obsession with who we are and where we came from, is both facinating and opens the gate to a wealth of speculative literature, some good some bad, but most of it thought-provoking. If you sometimes feel disenfranchised, lost or even needing to be found . . . follow this one up by reading some of his writings and the associated books available on the subject. And if you become hooked - look me up! Although I have to tell you, I'm Paula's (if she wants me).
Edgar Cyce, was a remarkable man who had a tremendous gift I enjoy reading of his work and I would love to know more about him. Still I have to say that this book does not do him justice. The information here, while apparently accurate is presented poorly. In my opinion if you did not already want to know more about the man (Cayce), you would never read this book for pleasure. Finishing this was a struggle and I had read it years ago and I care about the subject.
i found this book in my dad's bookcase one summer when i was but 14 and it changed my life! it provided answers that i had been searching for; introduced me to the concept of karma and reincarnation. i have been an avid "new ager" ever since! I've read just about every book by/about Edgar Cayce
I read this book while I was in High School. I've always been a dreamer and interested in what lies beyond our senses. This book is a classic in metaphysics and shows the incredible knowledge that is out there for those who have the ability to access it.
Good interpretation of a beloved prophet's life. Stearn does a good job being mostly unbiased and talks about the big things concerning popularity and relevance. A good read for those who question reality or the hidden reality in us all.
Edgar Cayce is a genious no doubt but Jess Stearn's writing style is not something I really enjoyed. Still thumbs up for his efforts in collecting all this data about Cayce from old times, no easy feat that.
wonderful book...wishing there were more stories.
This was an interesting and informative read. Anyone who doubts Universal Consciousness would question their beliefs after reading about the life of this incredible seer.
When I was reading this it seemed like everything Stern described was real. Reality Check! It can't be real.
Interesting, but most, if not all of Cayces' "prophecies" have never managed to come to pass.
A straight forward style of writing that gives you a quick insight into Edgar Cayce.
Mildly interesting. Slow moving.
I love anything either about Edgar Cayce or anything that he has written. AMAZING MAN.
This was a fascinating read and really makes you wonder. I learned a lot about Cayce and whether you're a skeptic or a believer, this one is worth your time.
Most interesting to read and discover that the mind has such an expanse of information and most cannot tap into that information.
