https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1003464.Edwin_of_the_Iron_Shoes
I really wanted to give this one up at the half way stage.
But there were a few reasons I wanted to finish it poking me along.
One being the shortness of the thing, and it features an early female P.I., predating Sue Grafton's 1980s creation, but the main and most persistent pokey thing was the knowledge that Marcia Muller is married to Bill Pronzini, author of the superb Nameless Detective series.
The less said about the hate-hate-love-hate proto-romance between McCone and the local cop, Greg Marcus, the better.
Number one novel in the Sharon McCone detective series, so one must begin with this book.
However, it is mildly entertaining, and it introduces the reader to an interesting girl PI created at the dawn of real change in the women's liberation movement in the 1970's.
McCone carries a .38, she works alone as a staff investigator for a low income legal service called All Souls Legal Cooperative in San Francisco.
The case we begin her series with is about several arsons and vandalism attacks against antique store owners, clients of her bosses.
She decides she is going to solve this case, and soon she begins to uncover secrets that flush out the murderer.
Muller's female P.I. Sharon McCone has been p.i.ing long before most mystery writers writing today were in diapers.
"Edwin of the Iron Shoes", published in 1977, is the very first McCone mystery.
Set in her home town of San Francisco, "Edwin" starts off with the murder of a beloved owner of an antiques store.
McCone is called in to investigate and quickly runs up a list of suspects.
It's a fun, quick page-turner of a mystery that is all the more fun if you know a little bit about San Francisco, as the beautiful city is a character as well.
The setting helped hold my interest in the McCone series until about the 10th book. Four stars for the early stuff, declining to not interested in the later episodes.
I first read this book in 1995, went on to read every other Sharon McCone/Marcia Muller mystery and have decided to reread all of them again.
It struck me that some hints of later developments (Sharon's family, Sharon's parents, etc) are present in this first book!
And, the mystery hung together well -- even having read the book already (albeit 23 years ago) -- I had to wait until Sharon figured it out for me to figure it out.
:-) Definitely am looking forward to rereading the remaining 30 books!
This is the first time I've read this author and I will definitely be continuing on with the series--I like Sharon already and the tone of the writing is middle of the road--neither dark and gory nor sweetness-and-light cozy.
It will be a LONG time until I can catch up, too...there are many many books in this series, so obviously a few other people liked it too.
Three and a half stars. I had low expectations but really enjoyed this. Very short and quick read. She got straight to the point, no extraneous information. I'd definitely be interested in reading more in this series.
Sharon is hired to find out who is vandalizing the neighbor by the insurance company she works for.
Sharon lives in the neighborhood and when the vandals stop, Sharon is called off the case.
However, when a woman is found dead, Sharon feels guilt for not finding out who the vandals were.
The police are sure the woman's boyfriend is the killer and are not looking elsewhere.
When Sharon is doing the inventory in the dead woman's antique store, she is attack.
She is sure there is something in the store the killer was after.
That doesn’t detract from the quality of the writing or storytelling here.This book was first published in 1977 and it shows in little things we take for granted 40 years later.
But I will say had I read this book then, I would have continued to read them and would be waiting the release of the latest entry in the series.Amazon continues its amazing ability to list how many pages are in a Kindle book but can’t number those pages in the book.
By now page numbering an e-book should be as automatic as page numbering a paper book.
Her boss asks her to investigate the ongoing vandalism going on on Salem Street itself.
Sharon believes that the former vandalism and maybe the current murder has to do with the fact that this street is full of junk shops which, if cleared away, would be right for development of up-scale shops.
Her boss at All Souls asks her to investigate the murder, under the guise of putting together a list of the assets in the store for the owner’s estate.
My favorite McCones are the early ones when she worked for All Souls Collective.
I went back to the first Sharon McCone, EDWIN OF THE IRON SHOES.
It's hard to believe it's the beginning, Marcia Muller's first novel according to her website, because the writing and Sharon are both maturely developed.
Muller relies on her characters from the start, instead of on fear and fireworks.
(Both exist, but as support for the plot, not as sensationalism.)Sharon McCone is dismayed when the loveable and whimsical antique dealer Joan Albritton is killed in her shop.
It will become valuable once the existing buildings are razed.
Muller steers us clear of a thriller plot while dodging explosions and a mean cop.
This first book in the Sharon McCone series feels a little dated in both its attitudes towards women, as well as the mystery style, but given that it was originally published in 1977 that's understandable.
This is an essential "who done it", McCone is a private investigator who works for a group of lawyers.
She is called out to a murder scene, where the victim is one of the law firm's clients.
The elderly antique dealer was murdered using one of her own items.McCone has to learn about the convoluted dealings of real and manufactured antiques, real estate deals and smuggling, all in the quest to find the killer.
I started the Sharon McCone very late in the series - after her time with All Souls and as an independent investigator.
Her later books investigate Sharon's past as well.
It's an interesting book that explores the art world and describes Sharon as a young woman.
When one of the characters in the book refers to Sharon as "papoose" because of her Indian heritage, it makes you want to wince more than just a little.
However, it IS true to it's time.
It's definitely worth reading if you like this series, but started in the middle as I did.
#1 in the Sharon McCone series.
With this 1977 debut novel for female PI Sharon McCone, author Muller broke the ground for the likes of Sue Grafton's Kinsey Milhone and Sara Paretsky's V.I. Warshawski, who both debuted in 1982 with Sharon McCone's #2 Ask the Cards a Question (1982).Sharon McCone had been investigating arson and vandalism in a rundown S.F. neighborhood of antique and junk shops.
The properties have been condemned by the city and various organizations are interested in buying them up.
When a major property holder is murdered, Sharon seeks the killer.
She develops an unusual relationship with SFPD Lt Greg Marcus.
I noticed that Marcia Muller recently released book 26 or 27 in this series.
I stopped reading it a long time ago, but I became nostalgic for it and decided to revisit it.
I always like Sharon McCone, and this reintroduction to the series (it is the first)reminded me that the strong, self reliant McCone was ahead of her time as a woman detective.
In this episode, McCone solves the murder of a beloved and eccentric San Francisco antiques and junk dealer.
It involves stolen art, which is heavily foreshadowed from the start.
In this book she meets police detective Greg Marcus.
This was a short book which meant a super fast read.....that worked in its favor. This was just okay for me. It read like a Doris Day movie...golly gee. Being like Doris Day is not a bad thing. The 2 star rating was because of a few things. The forced romance, for starters, wasn't believable and it was very predictable. The awful dialogue was also a turn off. I liked the MC as a character, but I expected more. Another thing that bugged me was the title. It made this book sound interesting....but it was disappointing.
I finally found a copy of her first Sharon McCone mystery. Was on the lookout for it, after reading that Ms. Muller was considered the "founding mother" of the modern day hard-boiled P.I. I can see some of that in her to the point writing style, and the character of McCone. Fairly typical who-dun-it. But, being her first novel and also being Mrs. Bill Pronzini.....this is quite the mystery writing couple. 3.5 stars
Written in 1977, a quote on the book jacket calls Marcia Muller the "founding mother of the contemporary female hard-boiled private eye". While a short read of 178 pages, this first mystery featuring San Francisco private investigator Sharon McCone is good. The sexist, demeaning attitude of detective Greg Marcus clashing with the demeanor of McCone, makes for an intriguing sidebar.
A young investigator wakes up to a phone call that a small-tine antique shop owner has been found murdered and dashes to the crime scene.
The shop owner is one of a group of small businesspeople on Salem Street in San Francisco who hired investigator Sharon McCone to find out the source of various vandalisms that have been occurring.
But there is still money to be had in selling to developers.This is how we are introduced to Sharon McCone, a smart young woman who seems to take on both a police detective who is patronizing and insulting to her and a host of suspects that even include Charlie the junkman, who had been once the victim's lover.
Muller is one of those writers I discovered as a teenager and then when I became a librarian, went back and started listening to on audio.
I stopped keeping up with her around Listen to the Silence, because I couldn't get my hands on the audio at that time and I wasn't keen enough to switch back to reading in print.
And his "nickname" for Sharon has only gotten more offensive with time.
That said, certainly his attitude reflects the era that Muller was writing this book in and, if I'm being totally honest, are attitudes you can still find among some men today.
The prospect of starting a long-running PI series is always something to savour and that’s where I find myself with Marcia Muller’s Sharon McCone series.Edwin of the Iron Shoes is a good solid introduction with the murder of a local antique dealer offering plenty for McCone to sink her teeth into.
Business owners have been pressured into selling to make way for a possible redevelopment.The question is: was the murder part of this or is there something else going on?As an introduction to a new detective series, I found this to be quite enjoyable.
I think I'm going to enjoy this series.
Having read her in some of the Nameless novels, I feel I have a head start.
Sharon McCone is a private investigator presently working for a law office.
And it's the office that calls her the night one of there clients is killed.
Sharon starts helping out, but the cops and the murdered woman's partners give her a hard time.
This is where it seemed a little dated, they thought that what she was doing was no place for a woman.
But they're quick reads, so I'll keep going.
Fake antiques, smuggling, art -- a quick, fun readI'd forgotten how much I'd enjoyed Sharon McCone books. This is the first in the series and it lacks the polish of the later books. Here she has received her PI license and is called in to help investigate the murder of an antiques shop owner. She solves the murder, uncovers an art smuggling operation, and falls for a cop who at first she hates.  I need to pull out some of my Marcia Muller collection for fun.
This is #1 in a Sharon McCone mystery. I really liked how Sharon figured out what happened and how it happened. For a short book this one covered a lot of ground. Sharon was a very easy person to like and she followed leads like the professional she was trying to be. I gave this 4 out of 5 stars.
I read this book alongside a few other mysteries and I’d say this is more of a Veronica Mars than a Kinsey Millhone. The narrator is young and her narrative is rarely self-referential. Her love interest is just awful. I loved the art side to the mystery and the horrible suspects. I’d read more.
Interesting to go back and read the very first book in the series, knowing it had been written 40 years ago. It actually has stood the test of time well. I did enjoy it. Good introduction of the characters and the setting without an overwhelming amount of detail. A classic who-dun-it.
This is the 1st of 35 Sharon McCone books and it starts off well. The character is solidly developed so that we get a good sense of who Sharon is and what moves her forward. I'm looking forward to the whole series.
Dated in just a couple ways. Otherwise pretty damn solid.
No character development and not a compelling narrative. It is # 1 of a long series, which I hope gets better . Fortunately, it is short.
A well written story with an interesting ending.
