https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1149391.Gay_Lord_Robert
This enjoyable work is about Robert Dudley and the love shared between him and Queen Elizabeth I.
However, Robert found himself attracted to the Queen of England, for ambition's sake but also for the passion she felt towards him.
This story is Jean Plaidy's look at the life of Dudley, through the scandal of the death of his wife Amy Robsart, which has left historians puzzling over the cause.
I believe that this is one of Jean's better written novels.
Review - I really enjoyed this take on the life of Robert Dudley, and his relationship with Elizabeth I.
You can tell that Jean Plaidy really did her research, reading available sources, including the Tilbury speech which is quoted in full.
It is also interesting to see Plaidy's take on the death of Amy Robsart and the secret marriage of Robert Dudley and Lettice Knollys, as well as Robert's relationship with Elizabeth I over her other suitors.
- Robert Dudley / Elizabeth I / Amy Robsart / Lettice Knollys / William Cecil / Douglass Sheffield / Christopher Hatton / Francis WalsinghamSetting?
The book seemed to fly by historically and didn't really delve into the actual romance as deeply I believe it could have.
Even one just for the fictional side of this historical fiction since in real life we will never know.
There was just something unsettling as I read, and I found myself moreso wanting to read the book to end it rather than read for enjoyment.
Nonetheless, I am happy I took the time to do so.
This time period fascinates me and I never really looked into this relationship before.
Loved getting to ready Jean Plaidy's book about Queen Elizabeth I and her love Robert Dudley. I really enjoyed Jean's books about Queen Victoria and really loved this one as I was always fascinated by England's queens. Great how this told both Elizabeth's and Robert's histories and switching with their point of views and telling their love story.
Very good. The characters were well developed and were brought back to life through this story. Jean Plaidy is always a favourite of mine as you can tell she has researched the era well as you feel like you are within the settings and with the characters as they are so rich in detail but that it doesn't overwhelm you.
Jean Plaidy is famous for her thorough research and fascinating writing. What she is not famous for is getting me hooked on the life of Elizabeth Tudor over forty years ago. I've read fiction and nonfiction on the subject. This book is one of my favorite fictional accounts. Thank you Ms. Plaidy!
I enjoyed the book but I will admit I am not a huge fan of Queen Elizabeth I in regards to her love life. As all Jean Plaidy books it is well written and keeps you engrossed from start to finish.
Simply amazing writing - perfectly written and switched through different points of life and covered from infant to death and it was fascinatingly beautiful !
Eventually the story moves on to Robert and his story revolving Elizabeth and the other ladies in his life.
For the most part, the story moves between Robert, Elizabeth and Amy. There were a few things that I did not like.
Definitely not filled with passions and thrills unlike other books written about Robert and Elizabeth.
I did appreciate parts of the story told through Pinto's view, as she would hold a much different view of Robert and Amy due to her status in the household.
But this is definitely not one of the better stories about Robert and Elizabeth that is out there.
This was an excellent story of Queen Elizabeth's friendship (and possibly more) with Robert Dudley, the Earl of Leicester.
The book spans from the time that Robert is born, all the way to his death upon the English defeat of the Spanish Armada.
Although we do not know for sure if he was innocent of these deaths, being a Robert Dudley fan myself, I like to think he was!
I recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in Robert or Queen Elizabeth!
Sort of along the lines of Alison Weir's Marriage Game, (which I really didn't enjoy) but from the Dudley point.This was way way better, none of the wishy washy nonsense about them not doing the deed, butnothing about them doing it either.
It gives little doubt that Elizabeth & Robert were a couple in all but marriage, how different things would have been had they married!Jean Plaidy writes beautifully and you wouldn't think that these books were not new releases, first published around 1955 with the title Gay Lord Robert and re-printed in the 1970's.
Another telling of the love story between Queen Elizabeth I and Robert Dudley, this one by mistress of historical romance, Jean Plaidy.
I think the original book must have been scanned using OCR (Optical character recognition)as I noticed several glaring errors (Casde for castle, and test for rest being two examples.) Because it was originally written in 1964 in a more elaborate style than used by today's writers of historical fiction, for example Elizabeth Chadwick and Anne O'Brien, I found this heavy going.
This, and the three star review, may well upset some Jean Plaidy fans for which I can only apologise.
While this book is listed as number 11 in the Tudor series by Jean Plaidy, it can stand alone easily without the need to read the previous volumes.
Plaidy tells the story of the romance and friendship between Queen Elizabeth I and Robert Dudley with all the complications of their relationship from childhood to Dudley's death immediately after the battle with the Spanish Armada.
The author tells the story of these 2 complicated, strong-willed, ruthless, and passionate characters in such a way that the reader cannot put the book down.
If you like history and romance, this book is for you.
Robert Dudley came from a family of ambitious men, and their ambition had been their undoing. This Dudley however found himself attracted to the Queen of England, both by his ambition and personally.[return]This is a comprehensive look at the life of Dudley, through the scandal of the death of his wife Amy Robsart, his daliance with Douglass Sheffield, and his secret marriage to Lettice Knolleys. All the while trying to maintain his position at Court, and his place in the heart of the Queen.
While starting off a bit better than it finished, this book was rather dry and boring throughout. Good read but not as intense as Phillapa Gregory's similar book which was a real page turner. The book does provide better context for the evolution of the Dudley family and their power than does Gregory. You will enjoy this book if you are interested in the Tudors and the rise of Elizabeth I, and if you are interested in good historical fiction.
This, along with the other Jean Plaidy's were read during my teenage years, and I loved them. Mama had read them too, so some were written in the 50s. Historical fiction, romance, very fun at that age. Haven't read once since.
While starting off a bit better than it finished, this book was rather dry and boring throughout. Focusing more on the history than actual life, it read more like a nonfiction text than a historically-based story.
Robert Dudley, long love of Elizabeth I
I tried to get through this book but its language is rather weak and characters are rather annoying.
Such a charismatic man. So why was this book so damn dull?
Oy, jeepers. Could not be less engaging.
Illustrates the relationship between Robert Dudley and Queen Elizabeth I warts and all.
Another that I read forever ago and is next to impossible to find now.
This was a decent book. Not the best, but ok.
Like all the books from Jean Plaidy. This author have more than five pseudonyms; Victoria Holt ,Philippa Carr, etc. . History books,history -fiction books, with good argument and well narrated.
As always, I love that Jean Plaidy remains faithful to established historical fact, while making well-known figures human and relatable. Another brilliant interpretation!
This was a great book, one of the best books I've read so far about the relationship between Robin and the Queen. I wonder how history would have altered had they ever married?
I enjoyed reading this book
A little clunky here and there, it kind of lacked the ability to attract the reader and I got a little bored of it after a while. Wouldn't call this an outstanding book, but it was alright.
pretty good
