https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228491.His_Monkey_Wife
HIS MONKEY WIFE, or married to a chimp. (1930). John Collier. ****. It is not likely that you have read a book like this before, or will ever read one like it again. Collier, who I have described in an earlier blurb, wrote this one novel and then went on to, primarily, screenplays and the occasional short story. This novel tells the story of Alfred Fatigay, a schoolteacher in Africa, who is serving a short time there teaching the native children of Boboma. He is doing so because his fiance back
This novel tells the story of Alfred Fatigay, a schoolteacher in Africa, who is serving a short time there teaching the native children of Boboma.
She learned much quicker than the children, since she could not “talk” and did not waste time playing.
Soon she was learning to read more difficult books she found in her master’s study, and trying to write like she saw people do.
During all this time, Emily soon fell in love with her master and he decided to take her with him when he returned to England to claim his bride-to-be.
Well, this certainly was a book! Not a fun book, one full of racism and sexism and irritatingness, but certainly a book!Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This is a perfect quirky books for romantics. My boyfriend swore up & down that he wouldn't fall for Emily, the chimp...But he did. Who wouldn't love Emily? "His Monkey Wife" is a perfect escapist comedy!
It sounded like it could be funny, as the premise was about an intelligent monkey falling in love with an English teacher she met when he was on a mission in Africa.
I also wanted to get a sense of who this book was written for (because, really, who wants to read about a monkey loving a man?) and at the very least, I figured it would be amusing.Well I was wrong.
In the end, Emily threatens Amy with a knife on their wedding day, so they switch places at the alter and dumbass Mr. F.
can't tell his lover from a chimp and so marries Emily.
This book is certainly an interesting premise...a chimpanzee who falls in love with the man who has taken her as his pet. It is also a satire of society in the 1930's when it was written. While I found the book to be really interesting and very witty in some parts, I also had a very hard time getting into it mainly because of the very flowery writing. Also, I think it was a bit dated. Overall, I would say it was a good read.
A lovely fable and commentary of British manners and society in the flapper years... The language is quite sophisticated, which will slow the reading down for many (me included!), but the resolution was worth the extra work... This was highly recommended by my hero librarian, Nancy Pearl, Queen of Readers ;)
The only aspect of this book I did not enjoy was the chimpanzee's near-nauseating love for the main male character. Otherwise, the chimp was an interesting and vibrant character, far surpassing the other females (all human) in personality. A different sort of love triangle, to be sure.
I had a hard time gettting into this one because of Collier's line-work here, cluttered as it is with overlong preambles or setups and too many adjectives, neither of which two bad habits is present in his book of short stories.
I really loved Collier's short stories and occasionally this does sparkle but setting aside the racism as both a product of it's time and something that only crops up a lot near the start and end of this novel...
Of course some women are gold-diggers or exploit men- there are 7 billion of us.
Are there women like Amy in the real world?
Feminism isn't flawed because women want all the advantages men have and none of the disadvantages, feminism is undermined by those individuals who do- who treat it like a buffet.
In this though, the message is so central, that I find, regardless of the occasional lovely turn of phrase, I just can't recommend it.
Meanwhile Emily's dark looks and quiet demeanour attract various admirers, but her heart is devoted to the oblivious Alfred...I did find some of the elaborate prose went on a tad, but very funny and original!
Admittedly, this requires quite a leap of the imagination, but behind the highly improbable plot lies an hilarious and amazingly well-observed look at human nature and relationships which is still relevant today. I didn't find this a particularly easy read. Some of the sentences are so long that, by the time you get to the end, you may have quite forgotten what it was actually about. I'm glad I persevered, though, as this is one of the most thought-provoking and original books I've read in a long time. (And it's also extremely funny!)
I found myself using Google Now quite often, asking questions like "Ok Google, what does the word japanned mean?" I learnt that a primate in the context of England could refer to the Archbishop of Canterbury.
If you are the kind that prefers not to look up the meanings of things, or are uncomfortable with not understanding all that goes on in the pages, I suggest you give this book a pass.
However, if you are like me, you'll know that although hard to read, this is the sort of book that can widen your horizons."Is love less strong in its defense, or more so, when it is bestowed on the unworthy?"
(My mother set up an old easy chair in a bosky willow glade for me, then I spent so much time there reading she was annoyed!
It is now one of my favorite books which I re-read every few years, and yes, I get more references each time.
Old habits die hard.)Poor Emily, her first intellectual flowering, and her first romantic sensibilities are aroused by reading Victorian literature.
And so is Emily in her very lady like, intellectual and honorable way.
I think a great accompaniment to Emily's great romance is "How They Loved Him" by Florence Marryat.
This is another one of those lost-gem books that for some reason not many people are reading today.
The LA Times called this a work of genius and it was correct.
The bizarre premise involves a proper early 20th-century British gent who adopts a female chimp who turns out to be preternaturally bright and falls in love with him.
And the less I say after that the better, except note that this was written in 1930, and note the title.
Despite it's age, it still goes where no man has gone before.
And best of all, it's extremely witty.
Treat yourself to something completely unexpected.
I found this book by way of the 'Forgotten Classics' column in The Times, and I'm glad I did.
First, I'm partial to fiction from the 1930's - and as with any specialism, once you know a few of them it makes the rest more fun.
The plot is available elsewhere, but I would agree with those who say the somewhat Edwardian style takes a bit of getting used to.
I had to look up the definition of some words, which I haven't had to do in years.
Still, it's a treasure and deserves to be more widely read, cackled over, and passed on.
I heard about this book from Mike Dirda's column and thought I would try it, but it was not my cup of tea. It was somewhat amusing but then it got a little old, very quickly and I did not see any brighter future. Perhaps the writing was not as light as it needed to be, or the idea just wears out. Only got half way through and decided to read Death and the Penguin instead. I dropped the monkey for the penguin.
Quite bizarre, quite entertaining. Emily, the chimp, is the most loyal of creatues and for that she finds the reward she seeks and deserves. Of course, teaching herself to read and type helps her through the "civilized" world! Strong writing. Rich with literary references. Easy to see how Collier's style and subject are akin to Hitchcock, Bradbury or Serling.
I liked the plot and storyline, but it could have been told in a lot less words, or words that added to the story and enhanced it instead of being meaningless. I was able to skip most of it (speed read) and get the nuances of it all without reading a great deal of added fluff.
this is a great book, so clever...
Clever. Believe it would make a great play.
Jane Austen-ish satire meets highly intelligent monkey and crazy fun shenanigans. That was my impression of it. Eat a banana while reading.
