https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232145.Unnatural_Exposure
Book Review  Unnatural Exposure, the 8th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller series, published in 1997, by Patricia Cornwell, get 3 of 5 stars. By this time, fans of the series know Kay Scarpetta really well, and you either love her or get annoyed by her but love the mysteries. I generally like her as a character, but she did push a few buttons in this installment. Now that shes become fairly famous in her field, she's a little holier-than-thou... probably rightfully so, but still, a little g
Unnatural Exposure, the 8th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller series, published in 1997, by Patricia Cornwell, get 3 of 5 stars.
By this time, fans of the series know Kay Scarpetta really well, and you either love her or get annoyed by her but love the mysteries.
I liked the medical aspect of this book and the foray into virtual reality, but I like reading thriller books for the mystery, not the ultra technical aspects.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
Unlike some of the later books, this one didn’t divert excessively into the soap opera of her relationships with Marino, Benson, and Lucy.
There is a major public health and infectious disease aspect to the story that appealed to me, although others may be bored with the technical detail or jaded from more thrilling medico-techno thrillers from the likes of Crichton and others.
It's odd reading this in 2012, fourteen years after its publication; it must have seemed absolutely up to the minute in '98, with its online goings-on (on AOL!) and its virtual-reality recreation of the crime scene by Scarpetta's whiz-kid niece.
And I winced at the assumption that the niece's lesbianism absolutely *had* to be kept quiet so as to preserve her FBI/military job; though maybe that wince still isn't entirely gone in the States.Anyway, I won't spoil the ending.
Cornwell isn't in my top tier, mostly because her autopsy scenes are a bit too graphic for me (she no doubt appeals greatly to the CSI crowd), but this one didn't lose my attention for a minute.
I don't think I would be nearly as hard on this book if it weren't in my "501-must-reads" list.
It's a perfectly fine mystery book, where instead of a cop or a reporter, it's a medical examiner who leads the way.
I'm giving Cornwell the benefit of the doubt that these story lines are resolved in the next book in the series, and not just left out to die.
MAYBE if I read the previous 7 books, I would have guessed this random person, but then I think that's a flaw in a book in a series.
By this point I found Scarpetta unbearable. She's stopped resembling any human, and become some sort of paranoid superhero. [Of course, someone always is out to get her, but it's different someones all the time]
So she has to fly back to the UK again - she might one day well fly to the bloody moon to get a better look at the outline of the USA, if she keeps that up, but anyway - there she makes a scene until the smart FBI guy caves in and confesses Mark had had a woman with him, so she tells BW that she loves him, the end.PS: The only love here is of course for Lucy, who isn't only the smartest, strongest, most beautiful young goddess alive, but in this book there is actually a scene where they nearly land in bed together and KS thinks that she's not Lucy's girlfriend.
Wingo is a welcome and poignant reappearance, as are the events of the very last chapter, which hint that Scarpetta may be able to finally move forward with her life and quit being so self-centered and snappish with everyone.
In related news, (view spoiler)[did anyone wind up giving a fuck about the 9 random torsos in Ireland and Virginia?
Because the end of the book kind of points to "Nope!" (hide spoiler)].I'm giving this series one more book to get its act together.
Dr. Kay Scarpetta and her friends are all over a scary body dismemberment case, suspecting a serial killer.
A lot of people soon seem to be dying of 'Unnatural Exposure' in this eighth novel in the series of Scarpetta murder mysteries.Can the team of FBI agents and forensic scientists headed by Scarpetta, chief medical examiner of Virginia, find out who - and what - is behind the deaths?
Is there a terrorist loose?There are dramas and graphic chills aplenty in the Scarpetta procedural mysteries.
The novels have continuing star-crossed love relationships, as well as many interlinked family and work problems, which develop from book to book in the series.
Cornwell pulls out all the stops and brings closure in stunning fashion to this exquisite Scarpetta novel, sure to impress fans and newbies alike.The powerful character development for which Cornwell is well known in the series is not lost within this powerful story line and plot.
Cornwell does well to introduce new and exciting ideas into her stories, while keeping her beloved characters and developing their back stories to the point of sucking the reader in.
This novel has great development and a whopper of an epilogue to tie up some loose ends left dangling for a few novels.Kudos Madam Cornwell on an excellent novel and a highly entertaining story.
Kay Scarpetta is starting to get on my nerves
(view spoiler)[I'm not quite finished but I have a feeling that I know where the WIngo storyline is going and I'm not happy about it.
Author's create this likable side character and then kill them off to let us know that no one is safe...
Not to mention Wingo is everything I like and he's a nice counter to Kay. He is big hearted and sweet and smart and earnest.
I just started the next book and Kay actual says to someone- I don't know why you put up with me, and to that I say, I don't know why either...
But upon further investigation, she discovers puzzling pox-like erruptions on the woman's body that, perhaps, point in another direction.When the killer contacts her via e-mail, Scarpetta enlists the aid of her computer-savvy niece, Lucy, to help track this monster through cyberspace.
Along the way, she's forced to deal with the unscrupulous ambitions of a slick FBI agent, Lucy's problems, and her own turbulent feelings for Agent Wesley Benton.Unnatural Exposure is the 8th book in the Kay Scarpetta series.
Be content.This is the first Patricia Cornwell book I've read and I somewhat like it.
I hate Ring, too bad the book doesn't say if he's been punished.
Maybe that will be in the next Cornwell book.
I just don't like how the book ended.
It's like it's cut short and I had no inkling whodunit because if memory serves me right there was no mention of Dr. Phyllis Crowder.
Maybe I'm used to other books like this where they give clues as to whodunit and you have to make a choice only to be proved wrong in the end.
No matter, I am still going to read other Cornwell books.
bis auf einen kleinen Hänger ist das Buch echt spannend :)
and the healing begins...couldn't keep up with all those biological hazards;plus the ocr is giving me problemsthe wrap-up was a stunner, though
This book put me into a reading slump, and I didn't think that this book would be worth me reading it until the end.So the plot of this book is that a 10th dismembered body is found in a landfill in Richmond, but it's the work of a copy cat killer.
There was some taunting from the killer, but honestly the set up was too slow for the thriller/mystery/crime genre for me.
It's almost gotten to the point where I no longer really care about the characters that I have read and finished 7 whole books about...Overall, I would really recommend the first book in the series.
It was one of the few mystery/thriller/crime books that I have reread and enjoyed.
I was worried she would have her typical yawner of an ending but she has shown me she can put some twists in play.As I was reading the book I was thinking to myself, "Whatever happened to just your typical serial killer?" You see in this one we have someone who is killing people with a disease very like small pox and they are threatening to unleash such a plague on the world.
The killer was then using aroma therapy spray to transmit the virus directly to people including people in Kay's office.Despite Cornwell trying to make Scarpetta the savior of the world again, this is a good story with a twist at the end that saves the day.
Look, I enjoy murder mysteries.
Now 8 books into the story I appreciate Cornwell's growth as a writer and the growth of Scarpetta and Lucy as characters over the course of the series.
More than any other book yet this series I felt the most effort was put into the growth of character relationships between Scarpetta and the other central characters (Marino, Lucy, Benton).
The chapter where Scarpetta and Marino go to Graceland was my absolute favourite because you really get a window into them as people, in a rare chapter where nobody is immediately threatened and no major plot points revealed.
A truly well done mystery from start to finish that scrimped neither on character nor plot.
3.5! Would have rated it four stars, but the ending was a little weird.--Still unclear if these are all the same person??Also, Kay, GO SEE YOUR MOM.
I'm finding the lead character very annoying, maybe she's supposed to be, but I'm almost tempted to stop reading, I won't, but probably won't read another book in the seriesAn annoying OCD main character, and the abrupt conclusion, the series story line was the only reason I kept reading
Cornwell's styles is always engaging and does not disappoint with "Unnatural Exposure". That being said she does get a little technical when it comes to the forensic side of the descriptions. This is part of what makes her writing so great as it paints such detailed pictures. I am working my way through the whole Scarpetta series and have not read one yet i would not highly recommend.
It's been a long time since I read one of Patricia Cornwell's novels, featuring Medical Examiner extraordinaire, Dr. Kay Scarpetta.
She runs into a wall of opposition, a bunch of reactionaries and political haymakers who want this to fit, but Kay Scarpetta follows the evidence, as well as her gut instincts.Thoughts of the serial killer are put on the back burner when an elderly woman is found dead on an isolated fishing island.
Her mission is to find the evil genius who grows and disseminates the virus, a psycho who taunts her via e-mail under the name "deadoc." Like the other Kay Scarpetta novel I read, it took me a little while before I got into Patricia Cornwell's storytelling style.
Then there is the ever so sweet Kay male assistant who dies but not before whimpering like a little boy only so Kay can be a nurturing mommy to him.To keep things humble Kay has the drooling dog Officer Marino and the Golden Retriever FBI profiler Benton following her to the ends of the earth.
FBI MAN Benton, this guy is such a totally a trained pup Kay should think of making them a circus act.
Scarpetta, a pathologist has headless bodies all around her, but one particular body has her confused, an elderly woman practically starved to death, dismembered and headless does not fit with the other bodies.
What adds to her confusion is the fact that not only is this lady an elderly lady but she has been decapitated and dismembered covered in some thick oilcloth, she finds fibers attached to the sawed off bones, the victim has some strange pustules on her back.
Whilst the investigations are in progress, a woman is found dead with terrible pustules all over body, which points to the dreaded smallpox, supposedly eradicated.
I read this one in one day, because once the first pox victim showed up, I realized I had read this one before.The beginning of the book focuses on the hunt for a serial killer who dismembers his victims.
About half way through the book, a new victim shows up who has been dismembered, but not quite in the same way, and also with possible small pox lesions on her body.
By the end of the book, when the killer is caught, I understand the reasoning for the small pox killings.
UNNATURAL EXPOSURE - GCornwell, Patricia - 3th kay ScarpettaA sadistic serial killer, the weapon a deadly virus Dublin, Ireland and Richmond, Virginia: separated by thousands of miles - linked by murder.
For Dr Kay Scarpetta a lecture stint in Ireland provides the perfect opportunity to find out if the murders on both sides of the Atlantic are indeed connected.
Five dismembered, beheaded bodies were found in Ireland five years ago - now four have been discovered in the States.
The circumstances of death broadcast a clear and horrifying message: the killer is armed with the most lethal weapon on earth - smallpox.Cornwells first four books were great.
WEEK 7WORD: FUNDEDBONUS: RESTAURANTMY LETTER: U for titleBook: Unnatural Exposure by Patricia CornwellFinished: January 20, 2013Rating & Book Review: 2 stars - I've been rereading this series and enjoying it much less than I did the first time around.
All the characters are so miserable and unpleasant and unhappy.
I keep reading because I haven't gotten to the new-to-me books yet and the letters they start with are awesome for challenges.
:DBONUS WORDSFunded - page 117 - The facility was funded by the county and about the size of my central office in Richmond.Restaurant - page 115 - We were walking into the restaurant which was appropriately named Mallards...
Surprisingly, this book was far better than any of the other Patricia Cornwell novels I've read so far.
While, it is still more soap opera than story, the plot is actually some-what believable, and for once, the main character isn't perfect.
Again, the story itself is decent, but the dialogue is still terrible, the antagonists are still very two-dimensional, and the ending a bit disappointing.
Ugh.If you like mysteries and fiction where you don't have to think about much, this book is for you.
I will grant, that it is an entertaining read.
so, my beef with ms.
cornwell at this point is that she sets up these beautiful mysteries and then it's like she runs out of steam and just ends them.
i mean, really?
there's a new strain of smallpox out there and THAT is how you end it?
how did it get to tangier island?
i was going along great until i realized there were five pages left.
while i appreciate the awesome "just friends who really care about each other" friendship they have going, i feel sorry for him, with all his fears about dying and no one caring.
Cornwell seems to love the details of a medical examiner's chores, and I'm right there with her as Dr. Scarpetta dons gloves and haz-mat suits time and again.
The buildings (and the bodies) she enters are an amazing array, some quite gristly and gruesome.
It was fun, and fast, just to thing to read while watching well-behaved but busy grandchildren.Two complaints: Cornwell has two gay men in this book, depicted in no judgmental way, BUT both of them are prone to crying and wringing their hands.
Still, it was a great ride, and I won't object to finding more of Cornwell on the library shelf.
