https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306090.The_Fatal_Shore
As Hughes points out, none of the women were sent to Australia as prostitutes, it was not a transportable offence, but few were able to avoid being raped on the way over and then prostitution when they got here.Hughes makes it clear that not everyone sent over was as poorly treated as those on Norfolk Island or Tasmania or Morton Bay. But these places existed to serve a purpose and that purpose was much like the Gulags of the Soviet Union – you didn’t need a large percentage of the population to be sent to such hells to make people understand it was a good idea to do their best to avoid going there.Some of the things detailed in this book defy belief.

A really solid look at Australia's ignoble European invasion.
The British turned the native soil of the Australian Aboriginal people into a prison island.
Author Robert Hughes does an excellent job of giving the reader an overall idea of what it was like to be transported to this distant penal colony, which was tantamount to a death sentence.
Just surviving the voyage was torture enough.
Once the poor prisoners (yes, I have some sympathy for some of the prisoners, whose crimes could be as inconsequential as petty theft) arrived they were greeted by a land devoid of comfort and compassion.
Australia is hardcore.
Australia does not fuck around.
Hughes conveys this quite well.
I first read this in college when the paperback came out in 1988.
I had years of thinking I should re-read it and never did.
What a wonderful book.
It is not a pretty story--not because the people who settled it were convicts, especially since many were, by our standards, minor offenders or political prisoners, but because of the conditions they faced and the treatment they received.
It was not pretty for those in charge either for that matter.
There were so many details that I won't go into them all--just read the book.
I find that Robert Hughes writing is, well, florid.
Hughes analysis is pretty good and I do find that even though I thought I knew how grim the early period of European Australian history was, I was not prepared for the cruelty and sadism described by this book.
In Tasmania the influence was woeful, especially with the coupling of being an island.
In NSW, because they received more Irish convicts and there was a leavening of more Irish politicals, this in time meant that the working class in NSW (and the East Coast generally) developed a chip on their shoulders about the Australian (Protestant) ruling class.In the end the book was too much of chore.
This is a tremendously exhaustive and amazing work in which Hughes manages to trace the history of Australia in scrupulous detail.
This should, without a doubt, be required reading in history classes in Australia.
In fact, I learnt more by reading this book than I did from 2 years of history classes at high school.
It's all here - the slow destruction of the Aborigines by both diseases brought by the white man to which they had no immunity as well as the rampant slaughter of the natives of Tasmania, the plight of the convicts (whose lot was perhaps even worse than the natives) including the horrid and hard history of Van Diemen's Land (modern-day Tasmania) and even worse the plight of those who were sent to Norfolk Island (something I knew nothing about until I read this book).
I'm not quite done with Robert Hughes's excellent history of The System, otherwise known as the settlement of a continent with petty criminals, but since I'm actually going to Australia in a week (!), and I can see the writing on the wall as far as things getting crazier before I leave, I wanted to be sure to sneak in a blog entry now.
An amazing book!!!!
This 600 page tome covers the founding of Australia from the First Fleet of the transportation of convicts landing at Botany Bay through the end of the transportation in 1868.
The continent of Australia was an enormous jail and the author uses letters, diaries, and other written history to paint a picture of inhumanity that reads more like fiction.
We see the attempted annihilation of the aborigines as the colony expanded into the continent and the ecological effects of "civilization".
There is so much here that I suggest you read this brilliant and disturbing book...it is compelling.
Millenni di pace e fatti-propri e poi il Governo inglese decide di liberarsi in modo definitivo di quel che definisce la feccia della società e va a prendere possesso di un territorio che fa di tutto per ributtarli a mare, ma loro indomiti resistono, anche se non riescono a distruggere del tutto una civiltà composita che era riuscita a integrarsi perfettamente in un ambiente ostile, e che non aveva visto invasori fino al 1770 (in Tasmania gli inglesi avranno più successo, e in stile Haiti, non rimarrà più nessun aborigeno).Libro magnifico.
Adjectives fail me to describe the stupendous scope and brilliance of this book.
He also describes the British regime in Australia as the closest thing to a police state that ever existed in British territory, which after reading the book, I can only agree with.
But it is not only the scope, detail and understanding of the book that makes it remarkable.
I knew very little about Australia before I read this book, which I bought because it was recommended on Channel 4 News on the occasion of the author's death in 2012.
Hughes really tackles every aspect of the founding of Australia, which is more interesting than you might think, if you're not exactly packing for Sydney any time soon.When eminences like Susan Sontag, Arthur Schlesinger and Gore Vidal plug your book with comparisons to some of the greatest social chroniclers of all time, you know (or hope, at least) you're into something great.
I'm definitely going to re-read this someday, some of the incidental tales he tells of some of the brave, hunted souls who tried to get away are just too juicy not to retell....Absolutely recommended, if you like your history eloquent, novelistic and thorough.
I found the book easy to read, the narrative flowed along full of facts but never dull.
Its not stuffy and boring like a lot of history books but a very good yarn.
I have sent copies to friends around the world and they have all enjoyed the book as well.
Its history at its best, some very interesting stories about Norfolk Island and Port Arthur and cannibal convicts, a very enjoyable tale.
Maybe some Australians aren't too happy with this side of our history but never the less its still our history and this book makes it enjoyable to read about.
Indeed, as Hughes argues, it is only really in the last 20 years that early Australian history has been taught in schools - prior to that, there was a national blinkeredness, a desire to pretend that Australia society was not built on 'the Stain' or 'the Taint'.This book is both a history of Australia and an insightful look into whether the penal experiment of Transportation succeeded.
The really top world news stories are:Lleyton Hewitt out of WimbledonA person who was born in Australia (ie tenuous connection, but we still want him) has made the NBA draft.Cocaine still popular in the USand the real biggie:Grave fears - GRAVE FEARS, in case you don't register the import of this story - held for lost Emperor Penguin.
What could be more important than that?I think we can add another question to the binary decision making tree for Aussies:New Zealand?
Fatal Shore is a brilliant history of how even the destitute and outcasts of Great Britain made a superior contribution to world civilization equal to what they had done in the Americas, Asia, the Middle East and the Indian subcontinent. What a great people! And Australia--what a great country today! Countries who could not absorb what the British had to offer still suffer from backwardness to this day and will most likely remain that way.
As a Canadian I am aware of how truly difficult it is to make life in the colonies seem interesting. I am lost in admiration for this Australian who has managed to write a fascinating history of the famous penal system that figured so prominently in his country's early history. I wish Canadian historians could find similar tales about themselves and tell them so well.
When I was at school, we were taught that most of the convicts transported to Australia were decent but unfortunate people, who were sent here unfairly, usually for petty and justifiable crimes like stealing handkerchiefs, or loaves of bread to feed their starving families.
The book focuses on the penal settlements in and around Sydney, Norfolk Island and Van Diemen's Land, and especially on the convicts themselves, who often led hellish lives at the hands of sadistic overseers.
Australia in the early days was a really nasty place to be if you were a convict - or indeed a native.
Reading these accounts of early Australia, I'm struck by just how recent it all was.
Great book on the founding of Australia and the convict colonies. Also, it had the added bonus of allowing me to act confused when New Zealanders informed that Australia and New Zealand were not the same thing.
It also fits well with the founding of Australia although it could also include ‘deprivation, misery, cruelty and ignorance’.I spent a long time reading "The Fatal Shore", partly because it is pretty long, but also because the writing is excellent enough to savor at a measured pace.
I had been meaning to read Hughes’ “The Fatal Shore” for many years as I had really enjoyed “Culture of Complaint” and “American Visions”.
Yet the deliberate cruelty and indifference to the poor are pretty hard to stomach.
The Fatal Shore excels both at describing what happened and capturing what it was like.Every stage in the history of the Australian penal system, from the first explorations and Parliamentary debates to the collapse of "the System" amid the gold rush, is described in detail.
The people who make the decisions — the reformers, the experimenters, the sadistic, the apathetic and those who were simply promoted beyond their level of competence — come alive as characters.But most of all, the book captures what it was like, immersing the reader into the worlds of the pre-contact Australian natives, the Georgian rookeries and the early penal settlements.
Amazing book.
I'm always on the lookout for well-written histories, and this one kept surfacing in various lists and blogs and amazon searches.
So when I stumbled on it at our local used bookstore, I decided to try it.
Hughes' history of colonial Australia is gut-wrenching, exhausting, and superbly written.
This is how colonialism really worked.
As a native of Georgia (another penal colony that made good and achieved statehood), I thought I knew what I was in for.
An aptly named epic, pulling the reader through the bile and brutal details of the founding of Australia as a penal colony.
At every turn, the reader shakes his head in wild disbelief.
The book, and the continent, stand as a testament to man’s primal instincts (selfish and noble) to survive and flourish at all cost — as in the story of a convict escape into the wild that turns into a death march fueled by cannibalism.
Hughes stays with the colorful deep history, but often pops up for air with an apt commentary on today’s Australia.
I know very little about the early history of Australia beyond watching "Botany Bay" on TV years ago and reading about the Transportation(of convicts) and Resettlement(of other sad sack poor people) in Dickens("David Copperfield" and "Great Expectations").
One is reminded of the dystopian/sci-fi novel "Getting Back," a pretty fun read in which Australia once again becomes a penal colony after the "normal" population gets wiped out by a plague.Moving along now after good stuff about early 19th century society in NSW.
Not because it's badly written--just the opposite; Robert Hughes is a master of the English language and uses it to full effect on every page--but because of the harshness of the subject matter: the transportation of criminals from Georgian and Victorian England to Australia in the late 18th and 19th Centuries, and how a string of penal colonies gradually became a nation (and how their criminal origin shaped their modern culture).The book starts with the historical, cultural, and political background for transportation.
With the paltry amount of popular history books I have read, I'm hard pressed to think of one better than Hughes' The Fatal Shore.
While showing us the ugly foundations for the modern Australian state, Hughes does something almost more interesting: he gives us a thorough account of "The System", this foolish and childishly naive cultural institution that transported the convicts themselves.
This sort of attention to detail is Hughes' major triumph, and it may simply be to exhausting for readers to wade through the quotes, the excerpts from letters and the longwinded accounts of the everyday lives of convicts which history has otherwise long forgotten.

In which Mr Hughes destroys most of the myths Australians tell ourselves, whether conservative ("we're not really descended from convicts") or, more usually, progressive ("the convicts were mostly political refugees"... nope. "The convicts and the indigenous peoples worked together to..." nope.) And does it in a highly entertaining narrative. It really isn't over-rated, though it is, perhaps, overlong.
I read this along with books by Alan Moorehead in order to better understand some friends from Australia and the peoples and history of the SW Pacific region in which my father had served during WWII.This particular book is very well written and serves as a painless introduction to the history of modern Australia. The writer, primarily known as an art critic, is a master of descriptive prose.
One thing that was interesting here is learning that many of the convicts, as mentioned above, really committed crimes that barely qualified as such - things that certainly would not result in jail time of much length now, yet induced sentences of 7 or 14 years, or life.
I actually found these parts to be the most interesting of the book, as later on it seems to delve into one brutality after another.Something that I thought would be spoken about but that Hughes only scratched the surface of was Australia's weather and topography.
(l’attuale Tasmania) e soprattutto Norfolk Island http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norfolk_..., una piccola isola dell’Oceano Pacifico, l’ultimo gradino nella scala delle crudeltà e delle umiliazioni riservate ai prigionieri.Personaggi come Alexander Maconochie http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexande..., che per alcuni anni governò proprio l’isola-prigione di Norfolk Island e che fu tra i primi a credere fortemente che fra i suoi compiti vi fosse anche quello di riabilitare i detenuti, furono rari (Maconochie era troppo avanti sui tempi e venne allontanato e dimenticato: giustamente Hughes gli dedica un ampio ritratto).Ciò nonostante, l’autore non tralascia di ricordare le insperate opportunità che si aprivano a chi, finito di scontare la pena, decideva di stabilirsi per sempre in quel nuovo continente: intanto, non sempre i detenuti venivano messi nelle mani di sadici aguzzini, e poi vi era a disposizione una terra ancora vergine e inesplorata, a buon mercato, e il costo del lavoro era notevolmente più alto che in Inghilterra.
