https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92286.Novels_1930_1942

"The real cause for regret in old age would be that one had met no love great enough to command fidelity." Witty, wicked and wise, these novels of sophisticated intellectuals mixing it up with "Dodo", journalists, admen, and ambitious women, are also very funny. Gore Vidal called her "Our best comic novelist." Romance triumphs after delicious discourse and diversions. The psychology behind the characters is explored with relentless, unflinching honesty. The foibles are laid bare and overcome. Exquisite!
The book, I think, is ultimately a love story with an ambiguous message about the possibility of happiness."Angels on Toast" (1940) is a satire of the world of business with its two main characters commuting by train from Chicago to New York City in search of money and mistresses.
In this book, Powell juxtaposes life in midwest Ohio with life in New York City.
The two major women characters in the book move to New York from the same small town in Ohio with very different results.
So glad I found Dawn Powell, she is what I always wanted Dorothy Parker to be.
Read "Dance Night" and "'Angels on Toast". Glad I read them, very rich characterizations. Liked "Dance Night" best.
Her words are timeless. Loved these novels.
This is a collection of five Dawn Powell novels - Dance Night, Come Back to Sorrento, Turn, Magic Wheel, Angels on Toast, and A Time to Be Born. I'm not a big Dawn Powell fan... I think most of her work is good, but not great. My favorite novel in this book was Angels on Toast.Dance Night ★★★Come Back to Sorrento ★★★Turn, Magic Wheel ★★★Angels on Toast ★★★★A Time to Be Born ★★★
I also enjoyed the way Powell played with the structure of the romance novel, providing a wedding while denying a sense of "happily ever after." Definitely recommend this one.4/1/13 (?) So far I've read the first novel, "Dance Night," which follows the aspirations and relationships of a handful of people in a small Ohio town in the 1930s.
Her observations are seldom laugh-out-loud funny, and sometimes they are so true as to be depressing, but for all that it's exhilarating to see these aspects of life nailed so mercilessly.Will read the last novel, "A Time to Be Born," next, then see if I want more.
Reading the books in succession, you see the changes in style and subject matter that moved from small town inhabitants in Powell's native Ohio east to writers, businessmen, and social climbers of New York between the wars.
Along the way, Powell moves from depicting the loneliness and longing of people seeking to escape the strictures of small towns to the portrayal of people who have escaped to the Big City and find out that it's not the place they dreamed of.
Powell's genius lies in her ability to satirize people's actions without the reader loosing sight of the common humanity within.
What happened to the author who wrote the early Midwestern novels "Dance Night" and "Come Back to Sorrento" to end up writing incredibly satirical novels like "Angels on Toast" and "A Time to be Born"?New York happened.In the Midwestern novels, I can see elements of the satire and characterization that bloomed in the later novels - but it must have been the sordid city lights that lit up the writing that came later.
I know this gets claimed of many authors - but for me, Powell is our American Dickens.
Tom Wolfe thinks it should be him.
But Mr. Wolfe, you are no Dawn Powell!
Ms Powell offers a glimpse of humanity during the depression and war years, a look so well written that it's as fresh as if it were written just yesterday. I've often wondered if Steinbeck and Hemmingway were overrated, now, I know they are. Dawn died in near obscurity and definite poverty because she found it hard to compete in the world of male authors.
It's a bit hard to rate a book that contains five novels. I didn't care for the first one at all, but liked the next one more, and the next ones even more. A Time To Be Born was my favorite, so funny and cutting. Definitely the characters and open ended endings of these stories leave me with mixed feelings..
Oh Dawn Powell! She is one of those writers that once you have discovered her, you must read everything she's written. And all of it is good! She's brilliant, subtly humorous and tragically underrated. A true treasure!
Tried hard to make myself finish this book, but I just can't make myself read. And the characters are just not living in the real world and it's driving me crazy.
Not my taste. I may try her later work.
Dance Night: 3 starsCome Back to Sorrento: 1 starTurn, Magic Wheel: 3 starsAngels on Toast: 4 starsA Time to Be Born: 5 stars
Loved it.
Enjoyed these books a great deal.
See my reviews for the individual novels in this collection.
