https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537072.The_Overcoat_and_Other_Tales_of_Good_and_Evil
Gogol's instinct to lecture sent "The Portrait" from a great Faustian story into a dull slog, and "The Terrible Vengeance" would've made for a hell of a ghost story if it weren't for the incessant interruptions about the Ukrainian, Polish and Russian "national characters" (which often results in the Polish getting the short end of the stick) and the importance of adhering to the Russian Orthodox church.
I'll grant that the rambling narrative voice used here, one of his earlier stories, was later perfected "The Nose" and "The Overcoat," but I haven't got the time for this kind of nationalism.
If you don't like it when people write about themselves instead of the book they are supposed to be reviewing, then just skip this.Back in my university days there was no such thing as a comparative literature courses offered - if you wanted to study Russian Literature, you had to take a class from the languages department.
Anyway, my interest in fiction was not restricted to English fiction, so I eagerly took the one class in Russian literature my University offered.I do not remember the professors name but only that it, and he himself, was short and sounded funny.
Recommended by Goodreader and Trotskyite Brian T., The Overcoat is an interesting collection of six short stories by Nicolai Golgol.
Folks looking for continuity or careful plot coherence will look in vain.
21st century plot continuity was not Golgol's interest.
(By the end of The Nose, readers will be told that the nose in question is seen praying in church, riding about the streets of St. Petersburg, and being mistaken for a military officer.) Golgol seems interested chiefly in stretching the imagination of the reader, telling a shocking story, and delighting in the moral depth and existential absurdity of ordinary people.
My god, what a nut-job! Gogol was a crazy, religious, depressed, repressed lunatic, but my gum, could he write. The stories in this collection ranged from Gothic to comedic with tidbits of the fantastic and macabre. I loved the progression of the stories as much as I loved the stories themselves. The book is put together quite well, and readers shouldn't have trouble shifting their perspectives from Gogol's major themes: religion, piety, women, money, family, magic, society and circumstance. Oh, and am I the only one who thinks Gogol's work is hilarious?
But unorthodox as Gogol can be, his writing is thoroughly charming, and a very rewarding read in my opinion, even if the translation of this edition does (as some of the other reviews here suggest) leave something to be desired.
It's vary hard to understate the impact that Gogol's stories, The Overcoat in particular, had on his world and the generations of Russians that came after him.
The saying "We all came out of Gogol's 'Overcoat'." has been widely attributed to Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, and many other members of the Russian Intelligentsia; and, in fact, you can hear Gogol's echo through all the great Russian writers that came after him.If you're looking to get into Russian Literature, a collection of Nikolai Gogol's short stories like this one is a great place to start.
وانتهيت من قصص جوجول، أول مصافحة لي مع الأدب الرّوسيّ.
يُقال بأنّ أشهر الأدباء الروسيين قد خرجوا من "معطف" جوجول.
الكتاب يحتوي على أربع قصص مليئة بالدّروس الّتي قد تحتاجُ منك بعض الوقت لتعيشها أكثر، مذكّرات مجنون، المعطف، الأنف، الصورة.الأسلوب غريبٌ عليّ تقريبًا بما أنها المرّة الأولى، لكن يجذبُ في شيءٍ ما لا أستطيعُ تمييزه، ربّما يكون تصويره للطبقيّة الموجودة في كلّ زمان ومكان، والتصرفات الّتي تبنى عليها، أوزالجشع الّذي يتملّك ابن آدم عند أيّ باب يُفتح له يطلب المزيد ولا يكتفي.
العبر جميلة جدًا فيه.
عتبي الوحيد على أنّ بعض الأحداث كانت مُتوقّعة جدًا، وعتبي الأكبر على الترجمة السيئة جدًا للأسف!المترجم: مصطفى علي وهبة.
I'm just making an acquaintance with Russian literature and this set of stories is simply strange. My favorite was "Nevsky Avenue" which for me is the one most easily understood. As for the others, they are good, but I think I need to know more about Russian history and read more Russian literature to "get" these stories. Was "The Nose" about snobbery or vanity, or both? Was "The Overcoat" about consumerism/unfulfilled dreams? I'll read more Gogol, definitely, and I might come back to this set of stories again.
The Portrait was really great, but was suspiciously similar to Dorian Gray - meaning I strongly suspect that Wilde ripped off Gogol. The Nose was bizarre and reminded me a little of that French film, The Moustache. Some of the stories were somewhat dull, but I really think it's because Gogol's sentences average about seven paragraphs a piece. Really - it's exhausting! You get lost in between all the commas. I loved the originality, and there were pieces - certain phrases that were just perfection - beautifully descriptive. It's definitely Russian (Ukranian). Lots of poverty and lots of cold.
I gather from scanning other Goodreads folks' reviews that people don't really "get" Gogol. I found the stories themselves to be funny and fantastical. I loved the matter-of-fact sinisterness of "The Portrait" and the bedtime scary-story feel of "The Terrible Vengeance." And "The Overcoat" and "Nevsky Avenue" fed my love of the ridiculous.For me, there's something endearing about how straightforwardly the speaker in each of these stories addresses the reader ... like a letter to an aunt or an old classmate. And the digressions about this or that character or back-story. Deliciously Russian.
Jhumpa Lahiri piqued my interest. After devouring the Namesake, I felt compelled to give Gogol a try. And I’m so glad I did! Normally I’m not a huge fan of short stories, but Gogol’s pieces (with the exception of Ivan Fyodorovich Shponka and His Aunt, which didn’t really have an ending) were all really fulfilling. My two favorites - hands down - were The Overcoat and the absurdist piece The Nose. This is one that I may end up buying because I can see myself reading these again.
gogol is such a great writer. this particular collection has less of his comedic stuff, although a few of those stories are present. some of this stuff could be considered gothic horror, even. mario bava based one of his first gothic horror movies "black sunday" off of gogol's "the viy", which was an excellent film. i have yet to read "the viy", but i plan on doing so
I liked the "overcoat" and "the portrait" .. They were entertaining. However, "Terrible vengeance" was weird but entertaining .. 'Nevsky Avenue" was totally boring. I hated "The Nose".. Overall, I kind of liked the way the whole thing was written though so much wordiness and sometimes boring and unnecessary details.
Humorous and poignant, often unexpected, delightfully absurd. Everything that a piece of literature should be. 'The Overcoat' in particular shines in this collection. Though 'The Nose' was particularly amusing.
"Nevsky Street" and "The Portrait" TOTALLY carried this book. "The Overcoat" was only ok.
Russian literature, as one of the world's greatest collections of works, offers a lot more in my opinion.
Though the idea is interesting, Gogol, as in several other stories, just doesn't know when to let go.
Similarly, while it is true that Gogol's tales and stories do contain struggles between good and evil, the same can be said of an enormous number of folk tales, religious works, and literary pieces by writers in every language.
It is interesting to read Gogol's work to widen your knowledge of Russian and world literature.
Knowing that Gogol's short stories had a great influence on Russian literature, I went into the reading more out of literary obligation than of pure interest. That being said, I was completely charmed by the writing and found myself enjoying Gogol's works from page 1. While a few of the stories felt bloated at times (Nevsky Avenue, The Portrait), the majority of the collection was lively, on-point, and insightful. Would recommend to anyone who enjoys classic Russian literature, or who appreciates writing that isn't bound to the confines of reality.
It was absurd, it was comic, it was unbelievable at times, but I enjoyed each short story. And there were some fairly cleverly hidden morals in there to be teased out (some were more obvious than others)
The Overcoat and The Nose are incredible but the other stories, while certainly worth reading, aren't quite on their level.
What surprised me about the other stories here was collection was how Gothic some were, and how consistently good most of them were."The Overcoat" is a wonderful story, centering around a poor clerk, often made fun of by co-workers for his threadbare coat.
This story really delves into the absurdity of the obsession with appearances, government bureaucracy, there's a lot of themes and ways to interpret this great story."The Nose" is another masterpiece really, some themes overlap with "The Overcoat." This one is funny, absurd, often downright weird.
The story is about a poor artist who acquires an accursed portrait of an evil old man.
He is might be considered a realist in the sense that his stories do not follow any traditional arc (though they all share a similar plot arc as each other), and because of his tendency to kill off protagonists.To be honest I was somewhat disappointed with the first two stories, "The Terrible Vengence" and "Ivan Fyodorovich Shponka and his Aunt"; the first of these felt rather like a forced imitation of one of Tolstoy's mythical parables, and the latter may well have been innovative in stylizing the story as if it were being related by a speaker in the first person, but to a modern reader this seems an affected and cliche device.To me "The Portrait" and "Nevsky Avenue" were the gems of the collection.
Recent novels read more as memoirs, biographies, or confessionals.
Whereas with Gogol's short stories, especially with "The Portrait," questions about how to make sure that I am a good person, that I lead a meaningful, purposeful and although I don't like this work--authentic life dominates the short stories.
I think I used to think about these questions so much more when in highschool reading Dostoyevsky.
Especially from "The Portrait," I am wondering if evil is a mood.
The Portrait made me think evil can be much more intimate--for it can be lodged in one's mood.
I only read select stories from this collection, but I have to say I was slightly let down.
I think it was Dostoevsky who said that all modern Russian literature comes out of Gogol...
I think my expectations were slightly too high.Gogol has some moments of brilliance in what he writes.
The cultural revealings are good for someone like me who knows little about Russian culture outside of what I get in literature and I like the ambiguity in his writing, but I just couldn't fall in love with Gogol the way I have with some of the other Russians.
Vladimir Nabokov, on Gogol: "Nobody takes his mystical didacticism seriously. At his worst, as in his Ukrainian stuff, he is a worthless writer; at his best, he is incomparable and inimitable. Loathe his moralistic slant, am depressed and puzzled by his inability to describe young women, deplore his obsession with religion." I think this selection of Gogol stories illustrates Nabokov's point accurately. It certainly was awful hard work getting through the first story, "The Terrible Vengeance", but after that, it was pretty smooth sailing. And as a bonus I discovered from whence my friend Nina got the derisory term "Shponk".

This was my first exposure to Gogol after seeing the name throughout other Russian literature. It is a collection of six short stories. The best are "The Terrible Vengeance" and "The Portrait," though the other four are good. Gogol shows great range in these tales--going from a medieval morality tale in "The Terrible Vengeance" to the comic in "The Nose" and "Ivan Fydorovich Shponka and His Aunt." The other two are a mix of the two.Not usually a fan of short stories, I highly enjoyed these, and will look for more Gogol.
For me this made a nice introduction to Gogol. He is somewhat funny, often going off on random tangents, and insisting on describing each character (even the minor ones) in detail. Everyone in his books seems to be either a humble artist, military man, or civil servant. Also, every short story seems to end with the main character having some sort of psychological upset which gives him a fever, of which he promptly dies. My favorite was probably Nevsky Avenue - though sad, all of the descriptions were so sweet.
An immortal writer, loved and admired; czar of satire.The characters in his stories feature caricatured geometries and yet their descriptions impoverish reality. That is to say that the universes created by Gogol convincingly sway the stories' events and characters, with poetic excellence. Exploring the lives of the petty civil servants, professionals and trades people of St. Petersburg will not be to everyone's interest but the experience can be fiendishly comical and yet almost always terribly sad.
I was inspired to read the "The Overcoat" because of what I read about it and Nicolai Gogol in Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake." The "Overcoat" was excellent, despite the mystical ending. So, I decided to read the other stories in this collelction. "The Terrible Vengence" was strange. I didn't like it. "Ivan Fydorovich Sphonka and His Aunt" and "The Nose" were too rediculous for my taste. "The Portrait" and "Nevsky Avenue" were entertaining, but not great. So, the entire collection gets a mediocre 2 stars, but "The Overcoat" get 4.5 stars!
I only read the overcoat.
As I was reading this book I just wanted to give my clothes to this guy.
Throughout the entire book I felt soo guility for having so much clothes.
All I wanted to do was help the main character get some clothes so he would not freeze to death!
I loved the flow of the reading and the way Gogol wrote the peice.
The writing reminded me a lot of the Dostoevsky (read Dostoevsky in high school before I read this).
Maybe Russia is just too dark and cold; no offense to all Russians).
This collection is uneven -- with some stories being nearly unreadable ("The Terrible Vengeance" eg) and others are interesting -- but in a 19th-century Russian historical context.If I were to recommend this to someone, I'd suggest reading only "The Portrait" and "The Overcoat". I liked both despite some flaws.The emphasis on mores and customs of St Petersburg high society in the early 19th-century was mildly interesting to me, but I could see it being of little interest to many. This is a big part of the background of Gogol's stories so one should be prepared for that.
