https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29483100-the-magnolia-story
And every time Joanna justified Chip's unilateral decisions, it smacked of some weird combination of Stockholm syndrome / Battered Wife syndrome (though obviously on a far lesser scale).My other major problem was the book's message - that if you work really hard, all your dreams will come to fruition.
But the hard work mantra is particularly difficult to take when you read how much help (divine and otherwise) the Gaines family had in their path to the top.
I definitely don't mean to imply that Chip and Joanna haven't worked hard for their success - far from it.
When my friend (and goodreads friend) Victoria reviewed this, I knew I would read it sooner than later.
You see their faith most often in how they’ve managed to make it through tough times.As Victoria says in her review, this is their walk down Memory Lane, from the first words Chip spoke to Joanna to her reactions, what they were like in those just-out-of-University years.
It’s hopeful, and filled with love and life and joy despite the obstacles, but it is as real as real can be.
And you believe them when they say it’s not about fame or fortune, it’s about achieving their dream of living on a farm, doing work they love, raising their kids and lifting up a town.This is not literature or an authorial memoir, it is a book filled with reflections and a good story about good people who worked hard, loved and believed in one another and with great faith and perseverance, have managed to turn their town of Waco, Texas into a tourist destination.
The Magnolia Story was a daily audible deal that I grabbed because I know my husband enjoyed their TV show.
We listened to this on a day road trip.
Both Chip and Joanna narrated the book.
The way they told the story made it feel like I had gone out to dinner with them and they were sharing their life story with me.
It was entertaining and inspiring to listen to how these two began and where they are today in both their professional and personal lives.
If you're a fan of their TV show then I think you'll enjoy getting to know them even more through their book.
Whether it was Chip leaving his newborn baby home alone TWICE, tying said baby's car seat to his 4-wheeler, or buying multiple homes and forcing his wife/family to move, supposedly without ever discussing it with her,or whether it was Joanna lamenting over her tiny yard that somehow could hold a garden, a pergola, a dining area, and a chicken coop.
Or possibly it was their multiple errors in using the word "literally" (No, Chip, you and Joanna are not LITERALLY from two different universes).
I did not like this book.
Chip's occasional Puck-like behavior can be entertaining, too.It was the Gaines' past and the behind-the-show stories that I was interested in reading about when I picked up The Magnolia Story.
Often decisions are attributed to "the voice of God" and I want to say, "Actually, you decided to sell that property to the Gaines' at their asking price, because they're good people who are very charming, and jeez louise, it's an old farmhouse in the middle of Waco, Texas during a time when Waco wasn't all that!
This couple and their family are quite charming, and so is this book.
If you're already a fan of Chip and Jojo, I recommend The Magnolia Story.
Most of the telling is Jo’s, with Chip chiming in now and then (he does admit that Jo is right almost all the time).
So with all of their financial difficulties and so many projects on their plate, she realized that she could “strive or thrive.” The Magnolia Story is filled with moments like these.As a fan of the show, it was fun for me to get to know Chip and Joanna Gaines as people and to know that the people who appear on camera really are being themselves.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I have a confession to make.
My name is Kelly and I am addicted to Fixer Upper.
Maybe not as much as the woman I see all around town wearing various shirts with stuff like this on the front .
.  I have one thing to say to her .
.  But I am addicted enough that the DVR is set to record every episode and I watch every single one of them – even the ones I’ve already seen three or four times.
I arrived late to the Fixer Upper part
My name is Kelly and I am addicted to Fixer Upper.
I’m not a big television watcher to begin with and thanks to a house full of men with sports and Netflix addictions, there was no way Chip and Joanna could even ping my radar.
Then one day I was home alone, sick in bed and flipped over to HGTV just in time for an episode of Fixer Upper.
I’m simply going to leave this little bit of nothing out in the universe since I do like this couple so much .
How can you help but love Chip and Joanna Gaines! ❤ A few quick thoughts that have stuck with me since listening to this audio. Chip and Joanna narrated this - love that, and they had their banter, talking together thing just like the show. I love love love that they don’t own a tv (wish I could do that...). They are a real couple who have worked through their own life struggles, but they consistently come out on top because they are a true TEAM when times are tough. I wasn’t expecting to feel i
How can you help but love Chip and Joanna Gaines!
❤️ A few quick thoughts that have stuck with me since listening to this audio.
Chip and Joanna narrated this - love that, and they had their banter, talking together thing just like the show.
I love love love that they don’t own a tv (wish I could do that...).
They are a real couple who have worked through their own life struggles, but they consistently come out on top because they are a true TEAM when times are tough.
I wasn’t expecting to feel inspired and uplifted after listening to this...but I did!
I have absolutely nothing in common with this couple - Happily single!
Yet the authenticity and genuine love they have for each other, their family, and what they do, it's impossible to just not want to hug them.The book reflects their life's journey from Joanna's and Chip's perspective, from their youth, to their meet-cute, to their marriage and kids, to the show.
So often we hear people complain about their jobs, but this is a couple who work hard and loves what they do (I'm sure there are moments they'd disagree).
Can't wait for the 4th season of Fixer Upper to begin.
Lovely couple.
...And they always found the exact amount of money that they needed. And they always happened to have a wealthy friend that could bail them out. And they always had a direct intervention from God. And it always works itself out in the end. And they all lived happily ever after... There's a chance that I'm too cynical for this book. I think I'll stick with their show and call it good.
This book is much like the "Fixer-Upper" TV show that made Chip and Joanna Gaines famous -- wholesome, light, a little bit funny, and no real drama. Die-hard fans of the show will likely love the book. The basic message here is "work hard and follow your dreams. And don't forget that God has a plan for your life". If you like these two, and this sort of message resonates with you, this will be one quick read. Just know that there's not a lot of substance.
Lately I've been enjoying the show "Fixer Upper" (thanks, Hulu!) and Chip and Joanna are so much fun to watch that I decided to check out their book.
I listened to this on audio, which was read by both Chip and Joanna, and that made it an enjoyable listen.
I did enjoy the story of how the couple first got offered a TV show, but serious fans of "Fixer Upper" may be disappointed because there isn't much trivia about the show itself.
Recommended for "Fixer Upper" fans.
The delightful story of the life and times of Chip and Joanna Gaines.
SUMMARYThe Magnolia Story is the first book from Chip and Joanna, and it offers a detailed look at their life together, from how they first met to how they became the media darlings of HGTV.
Chip and Joanna performed the narration, so hearing the story of their life and times in their voice was perfect!
I appreciate how Joanna uses the word “thrive” to describe their life, and I was most impressed by the maturity of this young couple and learned a great deal from this book.
If you can't find happiness in the ugliness, you're not going to find it in the beauty, either." ~ Joanna GainsIf there is a more gracious, talented, hard-working, joyful, morally astute, and down-to-earth reality-show couple featured on HGTV (or any other network for that matter) I'm not sure who they would be.
And if their show "Fixer Upper", along with their lovely memoir, is any indication of the sincerity and integrity of Chip and Joanna's hearts, they will continue to shine bright for years to come.Beautifully honest, artfully complied, elegantly simplistic, memorable and wise are thoughts that come to mind when thinking of The Magnolia Story .
And certainly worth recommending to readers everywhere.FIVE ***** Beautifully Honest and Elegantly Simplistic and Down-to-earth; Exemplary Memoir *****STARS
Chip and Joanna are some of the most amazing people.
This book was a wonderful glance into their busy, beautiful life.
It made me laugh hysterically, (Chip has the effect on people, I imagine) and *almost* made me cry.
There is no romanticization, drama, or anything like that with either the TV show or this book.
We're a real couple and a real company, and we do real jobs or people with real budgets."They devotion to God, their family, and their business is so inspiring, and their honesty and integrity is motivational.
This books was very encouraging to my own entrepreneurial efforts.
I would absolutely let the Gaines remodel a house for me, but this book was just OK. Like a lot of propaganda biographies written during the height of popularity, this one skims the surface giving just enough sweet and insightful information to be interesting but lacks in depth. This isn't a bad book at all, but I can't rate it higher than "it was OK" given the light on detail (at least in some important areas) and repetitive nature of the prose.
Such a wonderful book!! After reading this I love this family even more! Their faith and love of family is inspiring. I will miss their show on hgtv but it is not surprising they want more time for the important things!
Very sweet and inspirational. I loved the encouraging words towards having a happy marriage and family the most. They're certainly hard workers and God has used them to glorify Him in all they do. I am glad that they have shared their story with us all. The audio was read by the couple themselves and I really enjoyed it.
I love seeing little snippets of their life on their farm and how Jo handles Chip’s endearing but exasperating dorkiness.
When I saw that Chip and Jo had written a book, I honestly just picked it up because I love them and want to support them.
(They’ve never even owned a television!) What I loved most about this book was seeing the evolution of their relationship with each other, and how it’s the foundation upon which they built every aspect of their business.
I know personally, I appreciate the highs in life so much more for my time spent in the trenches.
I like Fixer Upper.
I am annoyed that he left his newborn son alone, not once, but twice, because he just kind of forgot that he existed, and then bungee corded him in a car seat to the front of a four-wheeler and didn't see any problem with that.
But they have led charmed lives, and not everything works out, even for those who pray really hard.
Just stop, Chip and Jo. You've worked hard, and you've been lucky, and you have friends who can lend you $100,000 to get you back on your feet.
Not everyone has that kind of life.
Follow God. Follow your dreams. Stop surviving and start thriving. Never give up. Contentment and joy are found during the journey. This is what I got from this book, and Chip and Joanna's story was amazing. <3 :)
Chip and Joanna Gaines are worthy of all the praise dished their way because they quickly direct it to our Supreme Creator.
Joanna Gaines is a hero of mine now because she has done something extremely difficult.
Explained her faith in a non-apologetic way that is warm and inviting.
Thank you Chip and Joanna for your confidence and faith in a Higher Power.
You've increased my faith in God. I should also specify that I listened to the book.
Chip and Joanna read it themselves and I can't recommend reviewing it that way enough.
I love reading biographies, and this one was especially fun since it's about a hilarious, dynamic couple.
I've watched some of their show, so it was fun to see the different stages their business morphed through.
(I didn't even know about Magnolia Homes!
I'm gonna have to look up pictures.) Even though I differ with them slightly on principles of stewardship and family life, I was blessed to read about this unique family striving to serve God as entrepreneurs.
:D And now I really want to visit Magnolia Market!
First off, I am a fan of Fixer Upper and Chip and Joanna Gaines!
I loved their personality, their family values and their creativity.
The book The Magnolia Story, allows to reader to travel back to Chip and Joanna's childhood, high school, college years, courtship, honeymoon and their struggles to begin their business.
Throughout the book, one learns about their beliefs in God, family and community.
"Go after your dreams, don't quit and don't give up.
Know that God has been there from the beginning - and He will be there until......."I look forward to watching their 2017 season and maybe someday visit Waco Texas!
My parents have spent many an hour watching HGTV, DIY, and similar shows on other networks, so, I've gotten to know "home improvement" celebrities such as Nicole Curtis, Peter Walsh, the Scott brothers, and Andrew Dan-Jumbo rather well.What did I think about this book? It's a very inspiring story of romance and faith in God...all the more so because it's true. Letting both Chip and Jo tell their sides of the stories separately was a nice touch. Reading this makes me want to read more biographies of famous Christians.
In their first book together, The Magnolia Story, Chip and Joanna give readers some insight into their life together and how their booming business came to be.At the heart of the Gaines's story lies Waco, Texas.
At the center of town is the Magnolia Silos, a large shopping complex that mixes home design with family fun.
The couple have found a way to permanently and positively highlight the beautiful town that they love.By the time Joanna met Chip from behind the counter of her father's local Firestone shop, the two could not have been on more different paths.
I love Chip and Joanna.
Their love for their home, family, work, and Jesus is evident in everything they do--a rare and beautiful find in the world of reality TV.Overall?
Chip cracks me up and makes me wonder how Joanna doesn't go insane.
There were so many great things to glean from this book, as well.
This is something I've been personally struggling with, so it really hit home with me.Anyway, a great read to break up all the fiction I've been devouring lately.
I didn't love it, but it was still good.

This was so good! I loved listening to them narrate their own story. They are hands down two of the most inspirational people on tv today. Who needs all the drama and vulgar aspects?! They prove that you can be real and not shy away from your faith in God and inspire others through being normal. Through hardships, through good times, and through each other. I love that.
