https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140130.The_Three_Bears
Such a cute and fun adventure/mystery story for very little kids.
friends are not alwayz your friends
Nicely illustrated book for children
Beautiful
This Little Golden Book is an okay adaptation of the traditional story of Goldilocks and the three bears. It retells the story simply and does not stray much from the traditional tale. The soft pastel illustrations work well with the text, but after reading it alone and then to my son it just seemed boring. There was no real climax to the story and the interest level is low. I enjoy the story of Goldilocks and believe there are better versions to introduce the tale to young childen.
So funny and a great book to read when you are just learning to read cause it is so easy and interesting
Genre: Traditional literatureGrade Level: PreK-3Unique detail: This is a classic story that isn't changed much from the original, but the bright vibrant colors in this edition make looking at the pictures a lot of fun for young pre-emergant and emerging readers.
This book was hectic as
Reading this aloud to my baby, and realizing wow... Goldilocks is a terrible little girl.
☺☺
It was really funny to read.
This book was read to me a lot as a child and is one of my all time favourites; the quest to finding Goldie Locks in the house is always exciting. This is a good book to use with lower ks1 as it teaches children about respecting others property and privacy. The book also has a lot of playful words and repetition in it, which is good for young learners to develop their vocabulary. The animation can also help young readers remember and retell the story through images.
Re-read 10/2017: Mama read this to me the other night. I looked at the cover and pointed to Papa Bear and said "He looks mad. Why he angry?" Then after we read the book, Mama asked me why I thought Papa Bear was mad. I said "Because Goldilocks."Originally read 1/18/16: Mama read this book to me this morning. I got up and immediately went to my bookshelf and picked some books to read.
The three bears have a whole lot of playful words and repetition in it, that is good for beginning readers to learn words. The story teaches a good lesson that you should not run around in the woods by yourself. It also teaches the lesson of not invading other people property and to appreciate and respect others.
This is a retelling of Goldilocks and the three bears. This book would reach out to the children and they would see that it is the same as the story they have been told before. The little girl does everything that Goldilocks did when she visited in her book. This would be a good book to use for a read aloud if you are talking about folklore.
This book is very similar to the goldilocks and the three bears. The three bears have a whole lot of playful words and repetition in it, that is good for beginning readers to learn words. I love how this book is so colorful.
This tale is one of my favorites, the anticipation of finding Goldie Locks in the house is always exciting. The lesson behind it can teach children about respect of others and their privacy and belongings.
This timeless classic is still a great read. The pictures in this book are cute and colorful. This book can help developing readers because many of the phrases repeat themselves. This book would be great for pre-k and kindergarten students. This is a great classic.
This is such a cute adventure book for younger children. I'm sure they will enjoy it.
My favorite book! I read this book about three times!
a short generic drawings of the beloved classic story of Goldilock and the three bears
PB 20 Another children's classic that everyone should read. The three bears is basically a right of passage in every child's life and a wonderful read with colorful and fun illustrations.
oh boy this is a fun book that has three bears communicating together and likes to do many different things
This was a decent treatment of the venerable classic. I was not fond of the illustrations.
a quite lovely cute story!
Most children will know the classic tale. They will love to repeat the sayings of the bears.
a cute story for the kids with amazing illustrations to go with it.
There are better versions out there.Illustrations & all.
Own.
Who doesn't love goldenbooks! Adorable version of a childhood favorite.
