https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161905-the-getaway
I think Jim Thompson just couldn't be bothered and called up Central Noir Agencies in 1958 and said "Yeah, I need a brainy criminal, a tough guy with mental problems, a cute wifey type, you know, perky blonde, yeah, and a bunch of honourable hill people… how soon can you get them over here?"Fifth, every so often Jim Thompson likes to impart his knowledge of the underworld to the reader, so he will say things like :Doc prowled about the cabin, automatically inspecting it as he did any place that was strange to him.
Can Doc McCoy and his wife make it to Mexico before Torrento takes them down or the police catch them?The Getaway it the tale of a bank heist and its aftermath, told in Jim Thompson's bleak style.
Actually, it's really light compared to the other four Thompson's I've read up to this point, more akin to Richard Stark's Parker series than The Killer Inside me.
It's still a good read but it's definitely a second tier Thompson book, more akin to Savage Night or After Dark, My Sweet, than to The Killer Inside Me or Pop. 1280.
I think I needed to digest it for a while before writing the review.
So I thought about it, read an interesting review that focused on the ending of the book, re-read the last chapter and….I’m cool with it.
All these smart as hell authors with their high-falootin’ metaphors that are typically lost on a dummy like me.
I’m a dummy.
(hide spoiler)] This is how this needed to end.
There are a couple of slow spots here and there, but there are portions that shine.
The typical movie goer isn’t gonna like this ending.
This is one of the better Jim Thompson noirs I've read. It's a twisty chase novel with the expected double-crosses, close calls, and violent clashes. Then toward the end, the story veers into something else but in an intriguing way. Doc McCoy, the bank robber, is a nice guy psychopath. I've read and heard that Thompson wrote fast and didn't revise his output. If so, he did a bang up job with his first drafts because he's delivered the goods.
Two robbers on the run, one of them recently out of prison, being chased down by the law in a manhunt, taking hostages and trying desperately to get to the border, in order to cross over to a mythical Mexican paradise city called El Rey?
The ending is surreal and nightmarish and totally unexpected, which is what tipped this from a 3 to a 4.(view spoiler)[El Rey is like a Kafkaesque, Tartarean, dystopian nightmare, which is so unbelievably ironic and fitting considering the lengths to which so many criminals have gone to get there: not getting what you bargained for, indeed.
The Getaway begins with what would usually be the middle of most heist stories and is mostly about the aftermath of the crime (hence the title).
And just like in that book, The Getaway has an ending that will first make you pause and think to yourself, "Wait, what in the f......hold on, did I just read that?", and then make you want to go back and read the entire book again.
I definitely can't wait to see what his other books are like!"You tell yourself it is a bad dream.
You tell yourself you have died--you, not the others--and have waked up in hell.
Όμως, ενώ η ληστεία αυτή καθαυτή θα πάει καλά (έστω και με μια κάποια αιματοχυσία), η διαφυγή θα είναι γεμάτη εμπόδια κάθε είδους, πολλά εκ των οποίων σχετίζονται άμεσα με τον χαρακτήρα και τη ψυχοσύνθεση των πρωταγωνιστών...Τι να λέμε τώρα, μιλάμε για ένα μαύρο μυθιστόρημα, γεμάτο βία, ένταση και σκληράδα, με την πλοκή να κινείται υπερβολικά γρήγορα και να μην αφήνει τον αναγνώστη να πάρει έστω και μια ανάσα.
Οι χαρακτήρες είναι αρκετά "βρώμικοι" -δύσκολα μπορεί να τους συμπαθήσει κανείς, από την άλλη όμως ενδιαφέρεσαι γι'αυτούς-, η ατμόσφαιρα εξαιρετική, όπως αρμόζει σε ένα δυνατό παλπ μυθιστόρημα, ενώ η γραφή είναι πραγματικά πάρα μα πάρα πολύ καλή και κάπως κυνική, με εξαιρετικές περιγραφές των διαφόρων σκηνικών και γεγονότων.
This just felt like a poorly done cliche from the start.
It wasn't terrible until it just seemed to enter a death spiral at the end.
Sad, I really wanted to like this one.
I doubt I will end up seeing the movie unless I happen to be watching TCM, when there is nothing else on, right when it starts or something.
This one just ended up not being a winner for me.
It is a fast action packed read so if you end up not liking it, you won't have wasted too much of your time with it.
I believe Thompson was ahead of his time when it came to the neo-noir genre, his imaginative and offbeat writing almost capturing the general weirdness of truth being stranger than fiction.
It’s streaked with Thompson’s typical sadism and nihilistic view, and we know things will not end well for the main characters, as often his novels do (unlike the 1972 film, McQueen discarding Thompson’s screenplay for a more Hollywood ending).It’s straightforward and concise action is brought to a screeching halt almost 2/3 of the way in, when things start getting weird.
More than just a running from the law and the evil criminals, too type-book, but a surreal analogy of how much crap a married couple can endure.
And speaking of crap, the capper is when they're reduced to hiding out under a ton of horse manure for hours.
Yeah, sometimes marriage feels a lot like that!As the book develops, husband and wife become increasingly more paranoid and distrustful of each other until they can barely look at each other in the eye.
So, forget the Steve McQueen and Alec Baldwin movies, neither of them did justice to this amazing book.
And the ending is like nothing you've ever read!
Terrific - just terrific. Jim Thompson puts Sartre in the shithouse. But pulp novels never get the credit some long-dead French guy's stuff get. But don't mistake it. This is a real existentialist nightmare, and you don't even realize it til the last third of the novel. What Thompson does to you is the same thing Dostoevsky excelled in doing - making you feel physically ill about what happens to imaginary people.
4 STARS.This is not the typical bank job crime thrillers one would have seen.Actually it felt that w
Every time you think things couldn't get worse for Doc, a charming, crafty sociopath, and his wife, they do.
Until finally things get really nasty in the end.
I felt this one wasn't as tightly crafted as The Killer Inside Me, but there are passages of such breathtakingly bleak and beautiful prose and sequences of such stark, but never gratuitous, brutality that I have to focus on what works rather than what doesn't in rating this book.
I watched Out Of The Past and then sat up and finished this book late last night; I definitely need some light relief now.
So close to a four star (or better) book, hamstrung by the final chapter.
For most of the book, Thompson crafts a great crime novel that calls to mind the Parker books that Westlake would eventually write.
Unfortunately, all of the subtlety and atmosphere that was developed in the early chapters is completely thrown out in the last chapters once the protagonists have reached their goal.
If I could have stopped before the last chapters, it would have been a four star book.
The characters are interesting, and the plot races along and twists and turns dangerously as Doc and Carol make their way away from the scene of the crime.
I was pleasantly surprised by this classic. I thought it would be a bunch of cliches about gangsters from the 40s, but was mistaken. It was full of blood and easy killings. Just the way I like my crime books - or murder books as hubby calls them. You know what sucked though? The ending. I have to admit I was a tad lost at the end and lost all interest in seeing if the getaway duo lived lol
This book would need a more precise star system. It deserves 86 or 88% , so 4.40something stars. It's unlike anything I've ever read before. It's plot-driven to the extreme, the situations are strong, unique and twisted, yet the characters are fleshed out extraordinairily. It's only 180 pages, but it couldn't be any bigger or it would've been too complicated. It's cops n' robbers again, but who cares? Thompson wrote The Getaway in 1959, so everybody else copied him. That's the original and that's fucking good.
✭✭✭✭
I really enjoyed reading this book; first printed in 1958 and reissued in new editions several times, The Getaway is one of the most original and rather funny crime novels I've ever owned.
Thompson macht das geschickt, indem er uns am regen Innenleben Carols teilhaben, während er McCoy als genau den erscheinen läßt (auch in der Innensicht), als der er von außen betrachtet wird und worauf sich sein Ruhm stützt: Er ist ein cooler Hund, der nie einen Gedanken mehr an irgendetwas verschwendet als unbedingt nötig und ansonsten mit seinem einnehmenden Charme und seiner Freundlichkeit nahezu jeden für sich zu gewinnen weiß.
Actual rating 3.9 starsThe novel that From Dusk Till Dawn was loosely based (besides one supernatural element).An engaging crime, robbery and (shockingly) getaway tale that sees the protagonist couple make their way across the US and attempt to cross the US/Mexican border into the fabled criminal paradise that supposedly exists there. The ending is great as the majority of reviews have already mentioned.Crime novel enthusiasts should check out this novel but stay the f*ck away from El Rey!
"Doc McCoy había nacido con la obligación de ser un individuo endiablado: persuasivo, lleno de personalidad, insidioso, agradable, de buen carácter e imperturbable.
Como siempre la novela te lleva en volandas con una prosa descarnada y dura, con cambios de puntos de vista en la narración pasando de la mujer a Doc y viceversa y, desde luego buena literatura.
El escritor dijo una vez que había una trama que se repetía siempre en sus novelas: "nada es lo que parece", en sus novelas puede ocurrir de todo y, desde luego, no te lo esperas.
Wow, Thompson writes some brutal scenes! I've seen the 90s film adaptation, so many of the turns to the plot in the first half were expected; the rest of the book, though, really surprised me. The descent from strategic getaway to desperate and despicable circumstances that Doc and Carol experience is dreadful, while the criminal hideaway Thompson saves for the final chapter reads like a setting for a horror story. This book is twisted, and I have a feeling that it will stay with me for a long while.
Ok, so even though Sam Peckinpah's 1972 film The Getaway with Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw is said to be based on Jim Thompson's The Getaway other than the title and the character's names that's where the similarity ends. Why do filmmakers do this? What, do they decide the story just doesn’t work for a movie and then rewrite the entire plot? So strange. As usual Thompson is a bit over the top: hiding out in a fake shit pile does seem a tad much. Ok, I get it. Crime doesn't pay.
Given he falls into genres of which I read a lot, I'm gobsmacked to have discovered Jim Thompson only recently. Why is reading so motivated by fashion? If there is something that should be above fashion, or outside it, why would this not be it?Of course, it could just be a case of trying to corner the market in rabbits.
The Getaway, based on the novel by Jim Thompson The Getaway has its good momentsNevertheless, it is not Papillon, The Great Escape, Bullitt, Junior Bonner or The Towering Inferno.Steve McQueen was one of the best actors in Hollywood and in this film and we can see why, even if it is not his best role.He plays Doc McCoy, a recently released robber who is involved in a Getaway with his wife Carol.The latter is portrayed by Ali MacGraw, one of the stars of past decades, launched by The Love Story.R

"Cosa ti sembra più ridicolo, me o gli aspetti simbolici della situazione?", in questa semplice domanda alla Cary Grant che Doc rivolge a Carol dopo tre giorni passati in una nicchia di letame secco sta tutto il senso della narrativa di Thompson e del suo rapporto con la tradizione Noir, Hard Boiled o come caspita la si voglia chiamare.
Fu romanzo controverso In fuga, almeno a dar retta a Robert Polito autore della sontuosa e monumentale biografia di Thompson, romanzo che dette non pochi grattacapi all'autore e ai suoi editori: non sapevano che farsene di questo noir in salsa Swiftiana (quando il genere non aveva ancora le pretese di autorialità che i lettori d'oltreoceano gli attribuiranno per non vergognarsi di essere figli della rivoluzione francese).
It’s like Thompson spent the first three quarters of his time writing this book reading old James M. Cain paperbacks.Then he picked up The Torture Garden by Octave Mirbeau, and couldn’t wait to finish this manuscript until he had a go at writing something similar.Still, I have to say I was grooving with it, scrappy as The Getaway is.
Doc McCoy and his wife Carol try to make a getaway after a bank job in southern California. His accomplice turns against him. Lots of things go wrong. Lots of people get killed. The reverse of more romantic versions such as that dynamic duo, Bonnie and Clyde. Filmed with relentless violence by Sam Peckinpah (1972) and redone with bad acting by Roger Donaldson (1994).
not bad. good writer but went wrong with one somehow
It begins as a typical terse thriller and in the last chapter suddenly turns into a surreal hybrid of Kakfa, Borges, and...erm...Steely Dan. Highly recommended.
