https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452157.The_Road_to_the_Dark_Tower
For that alone, this book should get 5 stars.This book is a fantastic reference and research aide to The Dark Tower series, and it not only provides a recap of each book, but analyzes the inspiration for the full series, the story and characters, and whose literary shoulders the series stands on, and how those actually add to and tie in to the story, rather than just being a stepping stone.
The dark tower and gunslinger books are quite deep but, very good.🐯👍
I'm a huge fan of King's epic seven part series, my main reason for picking the book up, but really didn't know what to expect from this.
There's a chapter on the long gestation of series, including the often bitter impatience of the fans at the time waiting for the next volume, which is interesting reading.
For those unfamiliar with connections to King's other works, a chapter summarising those novels and how they fit in might also be interesting.
Having read everything King's written though I found this a little disappointing too, as I was hoping to have highlighted things I've missed rather than just the most overt entries.
Bev Vincent's The Road to the Dark Tower helped me find if not all then most of those pieces.The book takes you to a long journey from the moment King wrote one of the best openings in literature ever ("The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed.") to the finish of the series (kind of, The Road to the Dark Tower was published in 2004 and maybe The Wind Through the Keyhole was not even in King's distant plans).
I skipped other chapters like "The Talisman" and "Rose Madder" because I haven't read those either, but they didn't play as big a part, so there weren't spoiler aspects like the stories told by the characters from Hearts and Insomnia in the actual DT books they appeared in.Each of the DT books is summarized and analyzed, including a lot of literary and philosophical references, some of which I had picked up on, others that were surprising and added to the richness of a series so deep in ideas, characters, and events.
Essential reading/skimming for anyone who's head is swimming after they finish the whole series.
I was hoping for some new insights into the Dark Tower series, subtle things I might have missed, connections I might not have made, etc.
I just finished reading The Dark Tower, I didn't start this book so that I could read it again.
Chapters 2-8 contain a synopsis of the entire series, and this section was painful to get through.
If the entire book had been like these chapters, or even if it was simply a short essay containing ONLY the last few chapters, I would have been much more satisfied.
If you do read this book, do yourself a favor and skip to the end.
I enjoyed this book. Certainly easier to read than the Dark Tower concordances. Well written and well researched, the author does an excellent job of summarizing and highlighting the parts of the Dark Tower series (seven books) while illuminating key facts one might miss while reading this opus. Helps tie things together and even mentions some concepts not everyone will pick-up during a first read-through. I found some of the sections repetative but still interesting and useful as a whole.
Looking for a way to revisit Roland and his ka-tet without reading the entire 4000 pages of The Dark Tower series? Read The Wind Through the Keyhole.Then here is the place to go. It's a great overview to the characters and story of King's masterpiece.Do not read this book unless you have finished all 8 7 Dark Tower books. It will spoil it, otherwise.
No mention at all of Wind Through The Keyhole though) there is no real attempt to dig deep in to Stephen King's magnum opus at all.Once Vincent is done summarising chapters, he then sets about examining how it relates to King's other works.
If you haven't read these other works, you're having the entire plot spoiled for you in a couple of pages, if you have, you gain nothing.
There's some interesting info about how Browing's poem 'Child Roland...' influenced other works (a C.S. Lewis story for instance) but most of the 'analysis' provided in these final few chapters is taken from Stephen King's own introductions and appendices to in the Dark Tower series itself.
This was a pretty large book, dealing with all things about "The Dark Tower." The first half of the book dedicates a chapter to each story in the series.
Usually I enjoy recaps, but with this book I found it a little dull to read 300 pages summarizing the seven Dark Tower books.
The length is what got to me, and it was hard to keep interested in these recaps.The second half of the book deals with everything else.
How other books are connected to The Dark Tower series and world.
I'd highly recommend The Road to The Dark Tower to all fans of The Dark Tower series, but I'll warn you that this book can be repetitive at times. There were sections that seemed to simply regurgitate information that had already been stated earlier in the book. That said, there were also a lot of new ideas that changed my perspective of the series as a whole. I especially enjoyed reading about how King's other novels tied into the Dark Tower universe. If you're looking to expand your Dark Tower knowledge, you should definitely check this book out.
Useful if you're curious about all the connections between Stephen King's works and the Dark Tower series, especially if it's been a while since you read the series (like me.) The first few chapters are mainly a summary of the plot, with details you might have missed mainly put forth in the footnotes, so don't miss those.
It makes for a lot of flipping back and forth, but it's worth the tiny bit of effort.
the last few chapters are better if you're fresh from reading the books.In summary, if you're a weirdo Stephen King geek like I am, it's worth having in your collection.
Like many others, I am a great fan of the Dark Tower series and was expecting that this book would include some substantive discussion of themes, connections, and other tidbits throughout the books that I had missed. Instead, it's basically just a book report of each of the volumes with bland bios of the main characters. There are a few chapters of "analysis" at the end, but don't bother. I'd recommend this book to a middle schooler writing a report about the Dark Tower books.
Excellente façon de compléter la lecture de la série. Un bon moyen pour demeurer un peu plus longtemps dans cet univers. J’ai sauté quelques passages, puisque la série était fraîche dans ma tête, mais dans son ensemble, ce livre est très intéressant.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Very insightful
Bev Vincent zaskoczył mnie swoim niezwykle kompleksowym podejściem zarówno w obrębie omawianego cyklu, jak również wszechstronną znajomością nie tylko dorobku Stephena Kinga, ale literatury, z której twórca "Mrocznej Wieży" czerpał inspiracje.
Jest rzeczą naprawdę zaskakującą, jak wiele może umknąć mniej uważnemu czytelnikowi a które po wskazaniu przez Vincenta okazują się wręcz oczywiste i idealnie wpasowujące się we właściwie miejsce układanki - choć uprzednio mogły wydawać się elementami wprowadzonymi bez konkretnego zamysłu.Najciekawszą partią - nie żeby pozostałe części były "nieciekawe" - książki wydają mi się wieńczące ją eseje, w których autor przygląda się cyklowi z punktu widzenia inspiracji i ram gatunkowych, w które poszczególne części i elementy "Mrocznej Wieży" się wpisują, oraz próbuje przeanalizować proces twórczy, który doprowadził do stworzenia - bodajże - najdłużej pisanej opowieści w historii ludzkości.Kolejna z książek, które zdecydowanie powinny zostać wydane w języku polskim!
The rest of the chapters deal with other Stephen King books that are related to the Dark Tower series; a detailed description of each major character in the books; works that influenced the series; discussion of whether the books are Stephen King's Magnum Opus; two time lines (fact and fictional); a mid-world glossary; Dark Tower on the web; and the poem the influence the dark Tower series "Childe Roland To The Dark Tower Came".I bought this book because I recognize Bev Vincent's name from his numerous posts on various Stephen King forums and newsletters and am always impressed with his knowledge.
Although the entire book was good, I find the chapters summarizing the books the most interesting, especially where Bev pointed out things that foreshadowed the ending of the last Dark Tower book.Dark Tower fans will love this book.
It doesn't appeal to new readers of the Dark Tower, because it spoils all of the vital plot points and fabricates various others; it doesn't appeal to veteran readers, because everything it states (besides the fabrications and assumptions provided as fact) is lifted straight from the novels.The essay-like presentation doesn't do much to engage the reader, boiling down to linear summaries and referencing back to relevant material.
It just doesn't engage you very well, and leaves you hungry for the veritable Dark Tower story.Admittedly, I started skimming after it started to summarise King's other novels.
The perfect guide to the Dark Tower sagaIn The Road to The Dark Tower Bev Vincent takes the fans on a journey through the wonderful world of Stephen King's Magnus Opus. He starts off with a meticulous analysis of the seven Dark Tower books, nicely avoiding any academic mumbo jumbo. Thatï¿s effectively one of the strong points of this book: it does not judge, only analyses the storyline and helps find surprising links you missed while reading the books. In a second part the author dives deeper in
The perfect guide to the Dark Tower sagaIn The Road to The Dark Tower Bev Vincent takes the fans on a journey through the wonderful world of Stephen King's Magnus Opus.
He starts off with a meticulous analysis of the seven Dark Tower books, nicely avoiding any academic mumbo jumbo.
Throughout the narrative it quickly becomes clear that Bev Vincent is a fan himself and that makes reading this book a great joy.The Road to The Dark Tower is a must read for anyone who has enjoyed the Dark Tower and wants to learn more about arguably one of the best works Stephen King has produced.
As a huge fan of Dark Tower, I was dissapointed with this "analysis" of the series.
This book absolutely has no reason for existence for 3/4 of it is just a summary of plots from all Dark Tower books, just a brief retelling of this gigantic series.
There is no analysis (and everyone who read the series knows how much space there would be there for building various theories), there is just listing of observations, like: "number 19 appears on the this and that pages".
Fans wouldn't benefit from it, just like the people who didn't read the series.
The fact that this book is mostly synopsis (and very useful in that respect) and only a little bit actual nerdy, scholarly stuff only serves to prove one thing: The Dark Tower series can't be mapped, set in time-frames, categorized, studied closely or even explained too thoroughly.
But as far as trying to pry the world(s) of the Dark Tower at the seams to see what is made of what and how, I think it's best not to try very hard and just accept things as they are told in the actually narrative.
