https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28249.The_Magicians_Guild
I'm not saying this book was complete Harry Potter rip off, but come on.
I'm sure there will be a prophecy later.
After all, there are more books!
The protagonist was dull and suddenly amazing at everything she did.
The main baddie wasn't all that menacing, and didn't have much to threaten our lackluster protagonist with, yet she complied with his schemes rather obediently.
I hear the books improve later on, and the author drops a very (potentially...depending on how it's treated) interesting conflict close to the end, so I'm interested in seeing what happens.
"She was special, but in a way he could not have guessed. She had magic!" - DNF 67% - I am sorry, but I can't take more of the insipid interactions between these flat and dull characters (also, stupid) who keep running around in this vague and generic world where nuance doesn't exist and where everyone generalize to excess. Don't even get me started about the writing, so bland and repetitive that it would be laughable if it wasn't so terrible. I really don't care if it gets better after. I can'
"She was special, but in a way he could not have guessed.
- DNF 67% - I am sorry, but I can't take more of the insipid interactions between these flat and dull characters (also, stupid) who keep running around in this vague and generic world where nuance doesn't exist and where everyone generalize to excess.
Even if she has magic!!!
Even if she has magic!!!
Even if they finally stopped!!
Oh my god.
What kind of nightmare is this.PS.
Kudos to Cery who manages to widen his already wide eyes in the same dialogue.
Now THAT's something I would want to see.
*snorts*
I was going to put this up on my "currently reading" shelf, but it didn't take me long enough to finish it.
Or, perhaps, I read more than I check this website.Either way, this book I just finished half an hour ago is a cute little start to what seems to be a simple and inoffensive fantasy trilogy set in a stock-and-trade fantasy setting with basic characters and a plot you would expect.
THAT being said, it was interesting enough to make me go look for the second and third books.

But I was looking for a kickass female magician protagonist, and I thought maybe this would give it to me.Pet Peeve: Canavan can't bear to call a horse a horse.
It's got to be a Dolag or a Mehai or a Ihrdsoihg'afdaf.Maybe that's a little sarcastic, but the constant inclusion of invented words for common, real-world concepts is really annoying.The first half of the book drags on and on while Sonea runs away from the magicians who are trying to catch her because if she doesn't get their help she'll die and probably blow up half the city with her.
Thus begins the chase.While the magicians look for the slum girl to convince her to join the Magicians' Guild, Sonea is convinced that they want to kill her for attacking a magician.
Lord Rothen, the magician who noticed Sonea's magical abilities first, tries to earn her trust and eventually teaches her how to control her powers.
But Lord Fergun, the magician Sonea hit with the stone, wants to claim guardianship as well - for a whole different reason.
Sonea gradually adapts to living in the Guild and becomes quite fond of Lord Rothen.
Everyone in the slums hates the Magicians that live safely, luxuriously and arrogantly up in their Magician’s Guild.
The stone that Sonea throws at one of the Magicians’ heads, actually breaks through their magical barrier, uncovering Sonea’s magical potential.This will ensue a lot of trouble for Sonea, her friends and family.Sonea is forced to go into hiding as she does not want to join the Guild.
That 50 percent of the book is about the hiding from and being chased by the Magician’s Guild to only end up there was really very redundant – I felt fooled when she was caught by the Guild.
Telling the story of Sonea a girl trying to live in a world of division where the magicians rule.
Not only is she a girl but she is a commoner who could never be part of such a precious world.
The adventure begins when she discovers that she too possess the same precious power, that is ten times the strength of an ordinary magician..
Not only does this shock her but it also shocks the magicians guild who must find her...I cannot say how much I love this book.
I have read the series up the the last release and now wait in vain for the next book.
This was a very enjoyable read with an interesting story and some very likeable characters. I particularly enjoyed the chapters about magic and entering other people's minds. Loved the descriptions likening minds to rooms in houses. It was all very interesting and made a change from the usual magic books where everyone is throwing magical stuff around and killing each other. The ending was very obviously the lead up to the next book and I have no problem being led. In fact I am looking forward to part two.
★: TE ODIO MERECÉS MORIRRRRR*Da vuelta el libro para leer la sinopsis*  MAGIA, ACCIÓN Y AVENTURA EN LA ÓPERA PRIMA DE UNA AUTORA QUE HA TRIUNFADO EN EL MUNDO ENTERO No me encontré con nada de eso.Me decepcioné. No demasiado, porque no le había puesto tantas fichas, pero no me gustó. Fue aburridísimo, ABURRIDÍSIMO!!!  Spoilers. Sonea es una plebeya que vive entre ladrones y que odia a los magos del gremio porque parece ser que son como la policía abusiva del reino. Oh, casualidad, un día, de la n
Sonea es una plebeya que vive entre ladrones y que odia a los magos del gremio porque parece ser que son como la policía abusiva del reino.
Nos encontramos con Rothen, Fergun, Dannyl, Lorlen y tantos más, y yo ni siquiera sé si son altos, flacos, gordos, rubios, castaños, ancianos, jóvenes, ni siquiera sé si son mujeres ya que los nombres no me dicen nada, y tampoco puedo proyectarlos en mi cabeza, así que cada vez que aparecía uno de ellos, en mi mente aparecía una persona con el rostro oscurecido, ya que no sabía qué apariencia tenía.
“It is said, in Imardin, that the wind has a soul, and that it wails through the narrow streets because it is grieved by what it finds there.” I picked this up with every intention of reading this the same as with every book I pick up. The synopsis piqued my interest and I'm ready to cut my arm for a copy of this. However, when I took a quick look at the review section, I was surprised to see that it has so many bad reviews. Did that deter me from reading this?  Absolutely not.  I read books th
Below is a list of specific things I LOVE about this book:‣ Sonea was definitely a winning character.
And by zero romance it means zero instalove, zero blushes (thankfully) and zero silly love declarations and I'm all for that.‣ Sonea was no Mary Sue. Yes, people say (1) she has powers so strong she can even destroy the city if she wants to and (2) she's expected to do great things but she never did anything flawlessly and unrealistically.
Eine Stadt, in der der Unterschied zwischen arm und reich deutlich zu spüren ist.
Ein Mal im Jahr werden die Bettler und Obdachlosen aus der Stadt vertrieben – und das von Magiern.Die Magier gelten als unverwundbar, niemand kann ihnen etwas anhaben.Bis auf Sonea, das Straßenkind, welches aus Wut, den Schutzwall der Magier durchbricht und einen von ihnen mit einem simplen Stein verletzt.
Es ist klar, dass diese Tat nicht unbeachtet bleibt.Sofort beginnt die halsbrecherische Suche nach dem Mädchen, welches, als aller erstes Hüttenkind, Anzeichen für eine magische Begabung gezeigt hat.
I was really curious whether Canavan was as bad as other fantasy-related authors loved by the public and finally got to read her books, courtesy of a friend.The Magicians' Guild starts simply enough - lowest caste tangles into skirmishes with the nobles.
oh well, Canavan's magicians are pretty pathetic either, so maybe the name suits) (it is to be noted that the translated version I've read calls them mages, too - one positive point to the translator) are recruited from higher castes and - surprise!
The book tells a story of a young girl from lower caste, who discovers her powers and needs to be tutored since untrained mages...
CORA AND THE REREADS5 Words: Magic, power, misunderstanding, prejudice, secrets.It is said, in Imardin, that the wind has a soul, and that it wails through the narrow streets because it is grieved by what it finds there.Buddy read with my bookish bestie Steph.Yeah, I just love this book.
I first read this as a teenager and I remembered loving it.
The book centres around Sonea,a teenager living in the slums who discovers she has magic powers.
Magic has traditionally belonged to the upper classes alone, and so Sonea flees the magicians,believing they will attempt to kill her.
The first half of the novel feels like a cat and mouse tale that goes on far too long.
There is a noticable improvement in the second half...It's a pretty straightforward young adult fantasy novel, but it is a nice story that sets up the next two books marvelously.
The audio narration by Richard Aspel wasn't terrible, but very average - maybe it was what he had to work with?Possibly, if I gave this more of a chance, this would grow on me as I like coming of age, process of discovery, magic school books - which is where I suspect this is headed.
Oh I feel so ruthless.I may check out her latest book at some stage because she has written a lot of stuff since this debut and so theoretically should be vastly improved.
It's just that there's so many books and series I really want to read and at times I'm very aware of how much potential crap I may have to wade through before getting to something I really like.?????
Muy introductorio, no sé
I love Trudi Canavan's ability to create imagined worlds with strong characters.
When the magicians of the guild come to purge the city of slum scum, Sonea finds herself amongst her old friendships.
In the spirit of the rebellion from the city folk Sonea throws a stone at a group of magicians who have a magic shield up.
Having the magicians catch up to them is in the end what saves her, her friends and the city from harm.I love Sonea's character, but I like Rothen more.
Rothen is the magician who feels a sympathy for Sonea and shows her a better life in the magicians guild.
This was better than I was expecting it to be. I like my fantasy a little darker than the standard and this had some components that fit nicely into that category. A world in which powerful, greedy magicians rule the world and keep society firmly under their thumb. The setting is fairly stock fantasy and the main character's unrelenting stubborness began to really annoy me. Both of these issues kept me from rating it higher than 3 stars but I still liked it enough to read the next book in the series.
As a first novel it's not bad and, while it's enjoyable enough, that fact shows throughout.The story lacks any real depth, character development is minimal, the plot is extremely predictable and the dialogue very stilted. I get the impression that Ms. Canavan has done a bit of Dungeons and Dragons playing as it comes close to such an adventure - all surface, single-layer action and no deep storyline. There is a little hint of a darker story in there but we don't get to see much of it here - perhaps the second novel will be a bit more gripping.
Un personaje malo porque sí, clasista, con ansias de venganza; un malo bastante flojo la verdad, pero muy desagradable.Me gustaría saber más sobre los ladrones en los próximos libros, me han parecido muy interesantes porque no son una banda cualquiera, sino que están tan organizados como los magos y eso me ha llamado la atención.También me gustaría saber más sobre las vidas de los magos "buenos", como Rothen, Dannyl o Lorlen.Y por último el Gran Lord...Por lo que vemos en este libro va a ser el malo de la historia, aunque todo puede cambiar.Es el primer libro de Trudi que leo y me ha gustado bastante como escribe y como describe el mundo en el que viven sus personajes.
Reading through this felt like trudging through mud.
The magic in this book has no construct to it, its just random people reading thoughts and throwing balls of fire.
No joke.The protagonist is a scared little girl do just happens to be able to do everything.
If I've read about a girl or guy coming out of poverty because of magic, I've heard it a million times.
There's nothing new in this novel, it adds nothing on top of the plethora of other fantasy novels.This feels like the work of someone who's written a fantasy novel just after reading a mediocre fantasy novel.
I'm glad that I didn't purchase the entire series. The Magicians' Guild has all of the elements of an interesting fantasy story, without the story to support it. This took me so long to get through that I found myself skimming quickly just so that I could finish. It's a shame really because the idea was great, but the execution was lacking.
Can't stop to review. Must begin next book immediately:
It could have been better and shorter.
The characters were stereotyped and the description clumsy.
There were info dumps about how the world worked.
There were words changed simply to make the world feel different—for example, ale became bol and there were substituted words for tea, coffee and trouble.
Some very lazy world-building right there.Having familiarised the reader with everything, it picked up a little bit.
The characters didn’t seem to develop much (with the possible exception of Cery).
There was no explanation as to why Sonea wanted to go home so badly.
And home to where, given that had been effectively destroyed in the beginning?
Man kann sie super verstehen und ihre Handlungsweisen nachvollziehen.Auch die anderen im Buch vorkommenden Charaktere sind sehr authentisch.
Ignoriert man die Magie jedoch, so entlädt sie sich selbst und das ist seeeehr unangenehm.Trudi Canavan hat eine tolle Art zu schreiben.
Ich hatte zunächst das erste Buch der "Zeitalter der fünf"-Reihe begonnen, war aber nicht gerade begeistert.
In den späteren Bänden ist das anders, aber ich war froh einmal ein Buch in den Händen zu haben, in dem die Liebesgeschichte keine allzu wichtige Rolle eingenommen hat.
You just sit waiting for the characters to work their misunderstandings out, knowing that eventually they will; it's just a question of how long it'll take.
And boy, does it take a long time.
Eventually I just decided it wasn't worth the wait.
The characters were all very simple and uninteresting to me.
Nothing much happens in the novel (honestly the first half could've easily just been a couple chapters), and when there isn't much plot the writing and the characters have to work even harder to carry the weight.
Unfortunately, this writing and these characters are nothing to write home about.
I wasn't too thrilled at the first part, but the second part kind of makes up for it, and it seems like there could be interesting developments in the two other books.
I read this so long ago but I still feel all the feels. This might get a re-read.
