https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82747.Angels
Disappointing. I have loved other Keyes novels, but this one is SLOW. Nothing happens, nothing happens, nothing happens for FAR too long, mostly because the main character doesn't want anything, so she's not trying to do anything, so you get endless descriptions of her pointless days of hanging out. It's quite a long slog through the middle part. And Keyes seems to think Los Angeles "wackiness" makes up for all that, but it does NOT. At the end it gets pretty good, but I'm frankly surprised I made it all the way to the end.
Hace un buen tiempo no me pasaba eso de dejar un libro, y menos cuando le había dado tiempo para que me convenciera.
Llegué a la mitad del libro y definitivamente no pude más.
Ya leí los dos primeros libros de la saga y pensaba que este me iba a gustar y entretener como sus predecesores, y me equivoqué.
Esta entrega pierde la chispa, no tiene ese humor, quizás ácido de los otros dos y lo peor es que este cae en la banalidad, en su tono más extremo, pasas las páginas y la historia no avanza, cae en un montón de detalles que no aportan y a mi me terminó aburriendo.
I consider Angels the best book Marian Keyes has ever written (although I havent yet read all her books).
In Angels Marian Keyes is more entertaining than ever.
Angels was also a real page-turner like no other book I have read for a while has been.
Marian Keyes has a great way of relieving the background of events little by little.
First it seemed like in the book Maggie's and Garv's marriage broke down because they were simply tired of each other or something as shallow, but during the book it turned out there was a lot more to it.
I really felt like I was Maggie when I was reading the book.
Prologue:"Shortly we will be landing at Los Angeles International Airport. Please ensure that your seat is in the upright position, that you weigh less than a hundred pounds, and that you have excellent teeth."funny.
It is a cute book in the style of Maeve Binchy but with alot more humor.
Marian Keyes' style of writing needs getting used to.
I don't know if that makes any sense but I think, for this book, it does.Okay.Angels is the story of Margaret "Maggie" Walsh and her flight to Los Angeles after she found out about her husband Garv's affair with truffle woman.
I love how Marian Keyes made her not the usual I'm-too-perfect character writers are not tired of conceiving.
telling more will spoil the book for you.Angels is a moving book by Marian Keyes and when you're done reading you'll wish you have someone who'll take snails off your windshield.
(Read this book to know what that means.) :P
This book almost does something very interesting for chick lit: the main character, an Irish woman whose marriage is coming apart, comes to L.A. to escape from it all.
Then she has a lesbian fling!
But then the main character realizes that she really loves her husband and goes back to him.
Sigh.Keyes does the same thing with the flashback abortion plot.
Main character (whose name, in case you can't tell, I've totally forgotten) goes to England to get an abortion.
Um...wouldn't this plot have been better if it involved actual guilt from an actual abortion?
It's annoying.But the brief lesbian fling part was hot.
Compré este libro por casualidad en una de esas librerías de segunda mano, pero en cuanto lo vi recordé las tardes de playa con lecturas de esta autora ya hace algunos años, y no pude resistirme.Ha cumplido su cometido, entretenerme sin muchas más expectativas que una lectura ligera y rápida en la que el final me ha parecido un poco apresurado y sin demasiado desarrollo en comparación con el resto del libro.
At first glance her novels appear to be "chick-lit" but once you start reading them, you realize there is a thoughtful depth to them.
Ms. Keyes' novels always make me feel like a better person when I'm done reading them.
She does such a good job with her characters and the real life experiences she puts them into.She is such a wonderful author and can minutely detail the fine points in interpersonal relationships that I find myself almost gasping and thinking, I've thought/felt/said that before!The first novel I ever read of hers was Watermelon, a novel about a woman whose husband leaves her the day after she births their first child.
The book is quit slow in my opinion.
I found the characters a bit bland, which is a surprise because I used to like the Walsh family.
Maybe that's why I like the second half of the book better, where the family gets more involved in the story.
I like Keyes' books because they're normally easy to read and fun but also has some depth.
Well, it just wasn't as fun as other books by Keyes.
And the serious part of the story drowned in a slow and not as interesting story about working and partying in LA.
I'm in the first couple pages, and can't wait to read more already. I love Keyes. She's had a couple little missteps, in decidedly subjective opinion. This though, has had me thinking all day! That's always a good sign.Some of the content was painfully familair to me, but amazing in it's accuracy. I seriously loved "Mammy Walsh" and Helen appearances throughout the story. There bits were so comical, especially the visit to LA. Loved this one. I think this may be my favorite yet. I can't wait for an accounting of Helen. She's such a pleasing character =)
okay, i started reading this book and i thought it was AWFUL! i got to chapter 5 and it was getting more awful! I don't seem to ever do this, but I quit reading the book and returned it to the library. it just wasn't worth my time. i don't know if it was because i hadn't read any of the others in the series and didn't know the characters, but i didn't want to know them, they werent worth it! i wouldn't even give it a full star, maybe a quarter of a star.SKIP it!
The third book in the series about the Welsh family tells the story of when Maggie, 'the sensible and responsible one' arrives at a turning point in her life. The characterization is great as ever and Keyes writing is superb and inimitable.
-Что бы ты делал, если бы я отказалась ехать?-Не знаю. Сошел бы с ума. Ел бы лампочки.(читать с ирландской интонацией).Так мне нравятся эти романы, что даже хэппи-энды их не портят. Эта немного поскучнее предыдущих, но впереди у меня книжки про двух наиболее сумасшедших сестер. Жду не дождусь.
Maggie realises he’s been seeing someone else and leaves him, which pleases her family, who don’t like him (I still don’t really know why…).
It seemed to take ages to get going, and I didn’t really like many of the characters, they were either stereotypical or predictable, (and not because I had read this years before…)This type of book is not usually my thing, too much shopping and not enough real people talking to each other about their problems.
The main reason I hated it was for the meaning behind it(that i got at least) It implied that for women to succeed and be successful in life they MUST get married.
I thought she was very very stupid and extremely annoying.Her writing bored be so much I couldn't even get through the whole book and ended up reading the epilogue.
Her writing was so awful it made me understand why people hate reading.What I learnt:"women are emotionally unstable" and "what's that?
You must have children in order to succeed as a woman!"Recommendations: anyone that wants to bash this book and how truly terrible it was.
It's a shame Marian Keyes is marketed as an author of fluff because most of her books explore women's lives and traumas with warmth and humour. The only reason this gets 3 instead of 5 stars is my brain automatically rejects any book set in Hollywood where the majority of characters are not sociopaths trying to out-sociopath each other in a Kafkaesque dystopia. (only with more money and narcissism)
I can't believe I'm saying this, but I just cannot get into this book. I've been plugging away for days and days, I'm only like 1/3 of the way through, and I am just not interested. This doesn't seem as fun as the other Walsh family books.
Didn't finish it, which I don't do with a book very often. What a slow read this was. Couldn't get through more than 120 pages...
Not my favorite of Marian Keyes
I would recommend reading any of Marian Keyes books. Angels is no exception. It's fun, irreverent, witty and tells a few home truths in Marian Keye's typical dry, Irish and magnificent way.
Following the break-up of her nine year marriage to Garv, Dublin resident Maggie Walsh jets off to Los Angeles to spend some time with her friend Emily O'Keeffe.
Emily, a talented script writer, has been struggling for a couple of years, trying to break into the LA movie industry.
I laughed out loud at this exchange:On Sunday evening, Lara came over."Not out with Nadia?" Emily asked."Nah, she got her butthole bleached and can't sit down.""Excuse me?" I spluttered.
It took almost a year to read this one.
The beginning is nice enough, and funny enough, but then gets dull really quick.
From the moment Maggie arrives in LA the plot staggers.
I picked it back up about a week ago, and sped through the middle bits until the book started to resemble more of what I love about Marian Keyes: humor and heart.
As we learn more about Maggie and her history, it becomes easier to relate to her.
The Walsh family is an unforgettable group of characters and I'm excited I still have two more books to go.
And my love affair with Marian Keyes continues to thrive, in spite of my distaste for chick lit as a genre.This isn't the most thrilling or emotionally moving of her books - when you're writing about the serious, dull, well-behaved member of a family of genial cuckoos, it's hard to make the story stand out.
But the book is still engaging, sweet, fun, and an easy read.
Ultimately, it was the perfect palate cleanser between heavier, more oppressive literary fare.
I probably won't go back to this one as often as I do 'Rachel's Holiday' or 'This Charming Man,' but it was absolutely worth reading.
Geinig vakantieboek over een Ierse die, nadat ze haar man betrapt op vreemdgaan, naar een vriendin in Los Angeles vlucht. Vanuit het huis van haar vriendin Emily, die wanhopig haar scripts probeert te slijten aan diverse studio's, maakt ze kennis met de Hollywood-style-of-living.
I have always rated Marian Keyes books very highly in the past, and have loved other books in the Walsh family companion series, but I don't know if this book was an exception or if I read the others too long ago to really remember them.My main problem with this book was the plot, or lack thereof.
This is by far my least favourite Marian Keyes book, but I do intend to finish this companion series and read more of Keyes' work in the future.
I think I am getting to the end of her books and I can’t say I am unhappy about it.
This story is about Maggie, the most responsible of the daughters, whose married just falls apart and she runs off to LA to see her best friend.
Apparently the reason she subconsciously went to LA was that a previous boyfriend whom she never got over spends a lot of time there and she wanted to run into him.
Because that happens all the time in the #2 biggest city in America.
One of the mediocre books.
This was not my favorite Marian Keyes book.
I have read "Watermelon" and "Anybody Out There" and I liked these books waaaay more.
This is the kind of writing that makes me doubt the author and dislike the book.
Everyone in the book except for the Walsh family was a total stereotype.
I kind of wonder if the author has even been to Los Angeles.
I love hearing about all the quirky Walsh sisters and their mother.
I will read more of Marian Keyes books but this one is one of her weakest.
Then everything starts to fall apart in her life and she leaves her husband in Ireland to go to L.A where her best friend Emily lives.
I loved this book because it explored love and some of the hardships that everyone faces in life.
The book focuses on her while she’s in L.A as Emily struggles to get a production company to buy her movie script, and some of the things that caused her marriage to go to shambles in the first place, including abortion, miscarriages and affairs.
Overall it was a simply wonderful book and Marian Keyes is slowly becoming one of my favorite authors!
This book drove me insane and maybe that's why it took me two weeks to read such an easy novel.
I wanted to SLAP Maggie, the supposed "heroine" and I didn't relate to her at all.
I couldn't stand how she bounced from one extreme to the other with reactions and emotions.
I wanted to slap Maggie for her stupid behavior (what was the scene when she freaked out in front of Troy?) and when she was too insecure to speak up for herself...even so much as to NOT eat.
I skimmed more than I prefer and couldn't wait to finish it.
