https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361396.The_Ultimate_Gift
The gift that I received after finishing this book was that of a road map to a successful and meaningful life…meaningful describes it better than anything.So many of us search for meaning in money, status and simply a bunch of things that most likely leave us disappointed and unfulfilled when we finally “get there”.
Instead of offering him a huge pile of money like Red does to the rest of his heirs, he offers Jason a year long journey where he’ll experience the twelve gifts of life.
Basically, the book centers around a young man whose great uncle bequeathed him a large fortune, but before he can have access to the money he has to go learn about a series of 12 gifts (one every month for a year).
Each chapter starts with a meeting with the lawyer (through whose perspective the book is told) where the new gift is introduced; after a paragraph break, the month is over and the young man reports on what he learned.
The book is of the type that uses a simple narrative to communicate life values or lessons (called "gifts" in the book).
The gift of work2.
The gift of learning5.
The gift of loveBy reading this list you can pretty much get out of the book what you need.
The point here is that work is actually a gift.
I don't really need to read a long-winded story to get that point.
Don't get me wrong, I understand that all books in this genre are just long winded stories that try to teach principles.
The fact that Jason usually showed up on the last day of the month to discuss his experience then came back the next day to get his new instructions.
I do not want to diminish the importance of the lessons Jason was being taught.
I believe strongly in the importance of each lesson and I want to learn them more deeply myself and teach my children these important truths for life happiness.
Today is the only day Riley will want to talk about the things she wants to talk about.
On the chapter heading page it says - Today is the day!
I read this for my book club.
And if you are looking to get preached at by a self-righteous old man who thinks you are stupid and don't need believable characters or varied vocabulary, have I got a book for you!Of course the message is good and the author seems like a really impressive person.
To its detriment, it should have been much shorter.
Like, email-forward-from-your-grandma-with-pictures-of-teddy-bears-eskimo-kissing shorter.
I read this at the behest of my mom who was deeply touched by it.I thought it was poorly written sappy drivel that unconsciously displayed some of the least attractive qualities of the baby boomer generation.The author, in an attempt at profundity, clumsily sought to inspire the reader with a moral narrative that would be insightful only to the most ethically stunted of persons.
There is an undertone of remorse in this story, laid on top of an exhausting sermon about living a moral life.I suspect a great many adults read this book wishing to pass the author's set of ethics down to a generation of kids who were raised by bad examples of it.
I see this as a thought provoking book for an entitlement generation of parents to use as a guideline to help them find a way to guide their entitlement engorged off spring back toward some semblance of happiness and self-fulfillment.
It's purpose is to intrigue those whose education and abilities of understanding allow them to use their gifts of perception, intuitive thinking, and imagination to devise plans using these strong moral foundations to create parenting that produces viable, and productive and morally consciously children.
The Ultimate GIft Jim StovallRealistic FIction162 pg.The Ultimate Gift is a fictional story, but it teaches a lesson that is very real.
The rules are that if Jason does not show proper attitude or does not complete the task he will not be given the ultimate gift.
Over the course of the next twelve months Jason, Uncle Red’s trusted lawyer and friend Mr. Hamilton, and his secretary Mrs. Hamilton, will learn about life’s gifts.
I wanted to read just to know what the ultimate gift is.
This is the kind of book where the characters are relatable and you get pulled into the story.
This book is really good as a short, thought provoking read.
This bookmis about Jason, who has to complete 12 tasks after his uncle's death to become the legatee.
Those 12 tasks center around moral values like friendship, love, work etc etc.
While completing these tasks, he finds new friends, some new ideas, meanings of life and the Ultimate Gift from the will of his uncle.I really loved this book.
It was short but still conveyed the ultimate message!
It's been a while and a book like this was really needed!
The movie is sooooo much better.
Life has many gifts to offer, however, if you do not know how to receive and use these gifts, they are useless.
Another good recommendation is the sequel, The Ultimate Life by Jim Stovall, for readers who enjoyed the first book as much as I did.The plot of this story is about a young man, named Jason, whose great-uncle has recently passed away.
The reader expects Jason, one of the least liked and not very closely related relative to Red, to receive nothing as his inheritance.
However, Jason receives the greatest gift of all the family members, The Ultimate Gift.
In my opinion, this book is stupid. Total waste of my time and completely unbeleivable. Didn't change my life like the author said it would.
This is the kind of book you will either hate or like. It's was like reading a fable, where you're supposed to think about the moral of the story. It came at a moment for me when I needed a feel good book, when I needed to believe that there's still redeeming qualities in humankind. It felt right for that moment in my life.
Life has many gifts to offer, however, if you do not know how to receive and use these gifts, they are useless.
Another good recommendation is the sequel, The Ultimate Life by Jim Stovall, for readers who enjoyed the first book as much as I did.
Jason must undergo and complete various tasks and tests left by Red in order to receive The Ultimate Gift.
The reader expects Jason, one of the least liked and not very closely related relative to Red, to receive nothing as his inheritance.
However, Jason receives the greatest gift of all the family members, The Ultimate Gift.
The catch is that he must complete 12 tasks over the course of a year to show that he is not a shallow, money grubbing person.
In short, he has been handed everything from money, to an education so his Uncle decides to show him there are more important things in life with each month corresponding to a "gift" be it love, laughter, friendship, etc.
If Jason completes all the tasks each month while being guided by his Uncle's best friend and lawyer, he inherits what is called "The Ultimate Gift".
This is a book I will keep on my shelf for years to come and read again and again.
The great thing about the book is the lessons Jim teaches through an intriguing storyline.
I had the opportunity to meet Jim Stovall through some close friends of ours and you would never know he was blind from reading his books, but how incredible it is that he has overcome this setback in his life and thrived and found an incredible amount of success.
He was a wonderful speaker and I look forward to the Ultimate Life.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to change their life or has not thought about it.
I read this book because several of my friends really loved it nad encouraged me to read it.
It is written as if an elderly lawyer is describing how a young man is taught the lessons of life in an effort to complete what it necessary for him to inherit a large inheritance from a deceased rich uncle.
The young man's life is changed as he goes through this procerss.
A lot of other reviews call the book "contrived".
My rating is based upon my approval of the lessons the young man was taught.
A few years ago, I imagine I would've read this book and absolutely loved it.
However, working in an environment in which people are trying every day to change their lives for the better, I realize now that the change process is long and grueling.
A spoiled, selfish, angry young man does not simply change in a year, even if he does have monthly projects to work on.
The one word that kept coming up while I was reading was: contrived.
"Impossible" would work as well.That being said, I still think this book is worth reading.
I would like to try some of the exercises myself.
This was a great book about a young man's transformation from a spoiled brat to a person who really understands the gifts that life has to offer us. Definitely much more an uplifting book than Winger, that's for sure.
I really enjoyed this book.
The first problem is the fact that the story was told through the eyes of Mr. Hamilton, the eighty-year-old lawyer.
Jason comes back a month later a changed man.
Had Jason been telling the story, we would have been able to see his character develop.The third problem is the fact that it seems very unrealistic.
I believe it is possible for such a quest to change a person, but the way it happened in the story was not believable.
Jason was angry, but then each month his perspective would have totally changed.
I don't like giving the book this rating, because I really enjoyed the movie.
I basically thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Young Jason is challenged, by his deceased uncle, to complete 12 monthly "tasks" to learn about 12 gifts, the gifts of work, money, friends, learning, problems, family, laughter, dreams, giving, gratitude, a day and love.
He has to complete each task before he is given the next task.
These are "tasks" we would all do well to accomplish.
The only problem I had with the book was that it was too short.
I would have liked to know exactly how Jason accomplished each task instead of just giving a report to the lawyer each month.
I read this book with my sister who had to read it for her English class.
It was a cute book with good lessons to be learned.
I liked the overall good tone of the book.
It's not normally something I'd read but it was good nonetheless.
This book is perfect for teenagers who need to learn the value of the lessons described in the book.
The book was short, simple, and to the point.
Although I did like the suspense built up to find out what the ultimate gift was.
I'd recommend to those who want a light and easy read.
What I LikedThe concept of the book is nice enough. What I Didn't LikeThis book is so didactic. Every chapter is a new lesson, spoken out loud and completely explained by either the author, dead Red, or Jason. There are zero true emotions, almost zero true interactions between characters, and the stories fall flat in an attempt to teach a moral lesson. At the end, I found that the story didn't pack a punch because it was trying far too hard.
Oustanding bood with an outstanding message. One of those books that you wish everyone would read. I've read it two or three times and every time, I feel refreshed, rejuvenated and excited for the future.
This book is a must read, it will change your perspective of life. Loved it, so well written.
I first saw the movie "The Ultimate Gift" and I just loved it!
The book and movie balance each other pretty well.One thing that struck me is that in the book,is that Jason, the spoiled, bratty main character who has to pass the 12 tests to get "the ultimate gift" improves his character and personality a lot faster in the book than in the movie.
so as it goes along Jason becomes a better person.)I probably like the movie a little bit more, but then again, this book wasn't written to be good literature.
I choose to laugh." The book teaches some great stuff, although it is a little bit repetitious, but all in all, a good read.
Very quick read. Very inspirational and something we all need to be reminded of every once in awhile. "In The end life lived to its fullest is its own ultimate gift"
How would you feel or do if you were Jason Stevens?Jason's Uncle Red was a very self made man, but due to the way he grew up and had to learn how to survive that when he had his family he inevitably gave everything to them.
So they did not learn how he didto survive.The Attorney for Mr. Red Stevens is Mr. Hamilton.
Does it change him, you really need to read this awesome novel to find out.
It is well worth the read.
The title page reads "What would you be willing to do in order to inherit one billion dollars?
The author has the following statement on Amazon: "What would you do to inherit a million dollars?
Would you be willing to change your life?
Jason Stevens is about to find out in Jim Stovall's The Ultimate Gift.
For that reason, I am not making you an instant millionaire."What Stevens does give Jason leads to The Ultimate Gift.
