https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1102337.The_Taking_of_Pelham_One_Two_Three
I like to pretend the remake with John Travolta and Denzel Washington doesn’t exist.)In the early 1970s, four armed men hijack a New York subway car with sixteen passengers and demand a ransom of one million dollars be paid in an hour or they’ll start shooting hostages at the rate of one a minute.
The Walter Matthau character in the movie is a composite of a couple of people from the print version, but there’s no one individual that negotiates with the hijackers and then takes to the streets to track them down.
I read this book many many times.
Is there any point to killing innocent people if it’s not necessary?” .
“ “Nobody is innocent.” “for The New York State of Mind, “Cut a New Yorker open and you would discover convolutions in his brain, tracks in his nervous system, that were not present in any other urban citizenry anywhere.”and for the A + multiples points of view.
Even minor characters jump off the page, like the Mayor’s aide, “His Honor was lying on the face, his pajamas pulled down and his bare rump waving in the hair as the doctor profiled toward it with a hypodermic syringe.
A rip-roaring ride, it's clear just how influential this book has been on any number of films. Yes, the characters are generally one-dimensional stereotypes, but it moved along nicely and doesn't outstay its welcome.
I finally completed my reading of this somewhat leisurely paced subway thriller set in New York City with all the holidays' hoopla going on.
Anyway, four men of very different temperaments plan out and then hold riders as hostages on a subway car (Pelham 123) for a million dollar ransom.
One of the hostage takers is named Welcome which I found a bit jarring while I was reading along.
All in all, I liked Pelham enough to stick with reading it until the final page.
It's not your by-the-numbers, adrenaline junkie thriller which at least sets it apart from the pack.
But unlike the movies, everyone - from the stretched-thin police and transit forces, a Mayor's office with a sick mayor and a nearly bankrupt city government, to the hostages - one of which is an undercover cop contemplating the choices of taking a stand - has an intriguing story.
The most intriguing story is that of Ryder, the former mercenary who has run out of wars to fight, and masterminds the plot against the subway system.
It's an incredible and pretty honest portrayal of how people would react in the stress of terrorism - many of the people in the story are not heroic, and a few make poor decision or decisions that are not in the best interests of the hostages.
This book is a 70's time-capsule, but not in a campy outdated way. It still crackles with suspense, and maintains it's freshness, despite being written in 1973. It's easy to see why this material has been the basis for two movies.
I don't mean that I have a problem with books that have racist characters.
This book does, but that isn't my problem.
Or at least it reads that way to modern eyes.There are several black characters in the novel, but most of them speak various forms of Ebonics.
But then I read a part about a black transit police officer.
He thought that maybe his dark skin would help him stay hidden.
And then later, someone else visualized her in some other sexualized way.This kind of thing was so over the top that it really marred the novel for me.
I enjoyed this book, but some of the racism and sexism presented was a bit shocking.
The racism and sexism is independent to each character, and it flows in every direction.
I think that it is important to take an anthropological perspective with older fiction and read it for the time in which it was written, as there is a tendency to forget how horrible race relations have been in the past.
But we shouldn't dismiss such books because they make us uncomfortable.
We don't have to like the racism and sexism presented in older fiction, and we don't have to excuse it.
A heist tale set on a NY subway in the early 1970s.
Most characters fail to rise above caricature, and the dialogue is trite.
Changing character viewpoints several times during each chapter might be distracting to some but I found it to be the book's sole saving grace - slogging through 373 pages from the point of view of only one of the book's characters (there are many, and they often fail to distinguish themselves from one another) might have rendered the book completely unreadable.
Don't waste time with this undeserving mess when there are so many better crime books available from that era.

It was one of those rare cases, though, when the screenwriter significantly improved upon the original.The story is a crime caper about an unlikely hijacking of a New York City subway train.
Yes, it was a different time, but when everyone thinks that they are better than everyone else, the attitude grows old quickly.The other central problem is that a good antagonist is created as the leader of the subway hijackers.
There is a runaway subway train sequence that is quite exciting.
The initial hijacking sequence is quite good.
If you don't know this book --and it's accompanying classic 1974 heist-thriller movie starring Walter Matthau and Robert Shaw; if you don't know the huge impact this dual project had on the entire action/thriller genre; then ...well, I just don't know what to say to you.
Just trust me when I assure you that it is one of the best 'book-to-screen adaptations' ever to appear in this country.
I hope you realize how rarely this ever happens.
There's only a very few such works EVER --where the movie adaptation equals or bests the great source novel it stemmed from--and this is one of them.
While the book is not as streamlined as a classic hardboiled thriller, it never seems to drag, and the backstories add texture, emotion, humor, and some fascinating quotidian insights into NYC life in the 1970's.) Godey built a fantastic and ingenious story, and the writing is (not exaggerating here) close to Donald Westlake level: lean, powerful, witty, and relentless.
The original movie followed the book pretty faithfully, except that the hijackers' names were used in the remake and not in the original.
(reportedly this was Quentin Tarantino's inspiration for his characters' names in 'Reservoir Dog'.)A NYC Transit policeman (played with the perfect mix of humor and drama in the original movie by Walter Matthau), communicates with the head hijacker (played by the great Robert Shaw) via two-way radio.
Just as enthralling and tension-filled in this book as it was in the film (and incidentally, the remake which stars John Travolta as the main bad guy and Denzel Washington as the transit authority contact, is a good film as long as it's not compared too much to the original).
The film is one of the great seventies Crime films and in a strange way, it’s a love story to the New York City of that time, with it’s great cast of characters and view of a city struggling to maintain it’s greatness.
The book is less loving.
The city in the book is not just struggling but falling apart - pulled apart by race, generational and cultual conflicts.
The book also does not have the balance between the characters of Walter Mathau and Robert Shaw.
I've always liked the movie but hadn't read this yet.
It is very close to the movie but expands on the characters involved.
The Walter Mathau character was taken from about 3 different characters here and that was a good choice.
There's just a tiny amount of extra action from the movie.
It's a good read so I'd say it's worth a read if you are a fan of the movie.
The story constantly switches between all the characters.
It hits on anyone involved by the story(newspaper stands, by-standers in a crowd) and forms a nice picture of NYC.
What a ride. What a read. The personality of each of the four "bad guys" was clearly drawn and differentiated, right to the last. The "good guys" were equally distinct. The author really knew his setting and the intricacies of it, revealed as the plot progressed. You felt you were in that subway car. I loved the dialogue. You also felt the New York layers of humanity and attitudes. Tense and full of suspense all the way.
This was a good quick read. It was almost like the book turned the pages itself. At points the excitement was out of control just like the train itself. I definitely recommend this book if you can handle a little sexism with a bit of racism dashed in there.
My very first "grown up" book I read from cover to cover when it first came out back in 1974. The book was a gripping drama, the original movie was a comedy-drama. I still have the book and will never part with it. More than a read, an experience.
I've seen both movie versions of this - time to finally read the book!
A great book. I finished it very quickly, and was always interested in reading more. I personally liked the characters, and found it interesting to see the same event from different view points.
Bettie's Books
When a New York City subway train leaves to start a run, its call sign is the time it left and where.
Led by Ryder, a former mercenary, the hijackers are:- Longman, a disgruntled former motorman- Welcome, a violent former Mafia thug, and- Steever, a powerful, laconic brute.They threaten to execute the hostages unless the city pays one million dollars in ransom.While the city rushes to comply, transit police try to puzzle out the hijackers' plan.
The delay allows one of the passengers, an undercover police officer who jumped off the train as it started to speed away, to shoot Steever.
Longman escapes while Ryder shoots the passenger.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsGood, solid crime story that moves along faster as it goes.
The fun part is catching their mistakes, and asking 'will this cost them later on in the story?'Improvements over the film-the personalities are fleshed out more in terms of the bad guys, and you get some back story to them, especially Ryder, the leader of the hijackers.
Also-don't expect the standard big shootout at the end, with the bad guys going out in a hail of bullets.
However, if you are someone who goes into crying fits over the 'offensiveness' of seeing the word 'nigger' in print a few times in the story, find a more PC book.
Una historia que trata del robo de un tren, algo frenético, se ha convertido en un suceso lento y pasivo, desordenado y confuso y muy aburrido.
Es verdad que tiene algunos diálogos brillantes, criticas bastante duras (aunque hay muchas críticas hacia el comunismo con las que no estoy nada de acuerdo) y los personajes, los poco que recuerdo de los miles que mencinó el autor, pues me gustaron.
Ryder, el secuestrador jefe, era muy interesante y que el autor se atreviera a ponerle algunos atributos gays me encantó.
Vamos, que no lo recomiendo, prefiero que veáis la película del 70.
$1.99Because I got to see this movie, the one starring John Travolta and Denzel Washington, not too long ago, I thought I would check out the book.
Strangely enough, I like the movie better.This book is dated since it was written 40 years ago, but there were other things I didn't care for in it.
The characters are rather stereotypical, although in this book you got to know their backgrounds a little better although Ryder still remains rather two-sided and not fully developed as the major character.You can read the previews to see what this book is about for yourself.
It looks like I'm in the minority of not caring as much for the book, but that's okay.
What's that song lyric?
"A little less talk, a little more action please." I guess I was expecting more action, more suspense, more...plot?
Granted, I've never seen a movie of this book, but they all sounded like action/adventure movies.
So I was surprised by the majority of this book being a social commentary of the '70s.
And not a kind commentary.
While it wasn't flooded with profanity like some books are today, it definitely strayed into the crude too often for my tastes.
The book is set up with constantly switching viewpoints, giving us the scene from the eyes of many different characters.
I ended up with this one during my struggle a few weeks ago to find a contradiction: a summer page-turner that didn't follow trends or formulas.
No vampires, no serial killers, no books about dogs...) This was just on the shelf at Target, thanks to the recent remake of the movie.Just like I wanted, this felt different to me.
So was the policework, right up to an ending that could be called anti-climactic .
but it just felt grounded & real.It makes me wonder what they did in the movie, both the first version and the recent remake.
Even though I've seen the movie several times and basically knew the ending, I enjoyed the "original" twists to the story.
Many of the characters were stereotypes — Steever the dumb strongman, the radical black, the OCD dispatcher trying to get the trains back on schedule even when the crisis was full on, the mayor and his assistant who were more worried with politics than the hostages.
Even the blatant racism was stereotypical.
I thought the best characters were Ryder and Longman and, at the end, I found myself wanting Longman to get away.
Pues no es para tanto.
Entretenido si, pero...
Está repleta de escenas y diálogos superfluos que no aportan nada a una trama central consistente (lo que viene siendo el asalto y poco más), que es el único motivo que engancha para llegar hasta el final, pero que como digo esta rellena de hechos y acciones que no vienen a cuento ni sabe uno porque las está leyendo.Me va a dejar la misma huella que la película, a saber, me entretuvo, pero si me preguntas por ella pasado el tiempo, la verdad es que no recuerdo nada concreto de ella.
