https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126678.Some_Do_Not_No_More_Parades
Tietjens (the stand-in for Ford while at the same time a portrait of one of Ford’s great friends) being the Tory and Macmaster the Whig, which I will not go into as I don’t yet know the key differences between them, other than that Tories are roughly Republican and Whigs Democrat, though in the cultural landscape of the UK these distinctions seem to encompass much more than just political ideologies.Now back to things more personal:I have been on quite a FMF kick lately and only slowly am I realizing why he stimulates my vital energies so.
Well, Christopher Tietjens is a fine hero: a younger son, a brilliant mind, and an out-moded and almost accidentally received moral sense that makes no headway in this world.
He and his mates move forward from the world that was comfortable to the world of the Great War. The moral dilemmas he faces are complex.
I am pleased that the figure of Benedict Cumberbatch, British actor cast in the HBO production, plays in my mind as I read about Christopher Tietjens.I have been reading this in a orange and white Penguin paperback edition (1948)labelled "one shilling/6 pence" on the front and ".35"(cents) on the back in pencil.
If you're too good, people will hate you - appears to be the theme.Having almost scratched my eyes out with 'The Good Soldier', or I shouldsay I couldn't appreciate the convoluted style, I promised to focus evenmore this time, and 'Parade' is a better read.FMF likes to open scenes with no context, so you don't have any ideawhat is going on and you have to figure it out from the conversation,which makes it difficult reading at times.England 1910, two good friends Tietjens & MacMaster are 30ish, civil servantswho do the real work of running the country - crunching numbers.
Some do not ... what? You must read it to find out. Parade's end may become my favourite of the great British 20th Century sequences, alongside the Balkan \ Levant trilogies, Raj Quartet, and more satisfying than A Dance to the Music of Time. Once in tune with the time shifting I savoured every page. And it's to be a BBC series ... http://www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pres...http://fordmadoxford-conference.weebl...
I adored this book. Absolutely stunning prose in highly original structure. Not the easiest read but worth the effort. Read it over 10 years ago and still rates as my favourite - recommend highly.
Originally published on my blog here in September 2000.The character of Christopher Tietjens dominates the first novel of Ford's Parade's End sequence about the effects of the First World War as he does all four.
His central place is because he represents much of the decent side of the old gentlemanly world destroyed in that conflict.Strangely enough, in Some Do Not..., no part of the war is portrayed; it is mainly about the relationship between Tietjens and his wife Sylvia.
This is the first installment of Ford Madox Ford's Quadrilogy, Parade's End, which is one of my more ambitious summer reading selections.
The book's narration moves fluidly back and forth through time and follows protagonist, Christopher Tietjens, a man struggling with a set of old-fashioned English gentleman values in a rapidly modernizing world.
In this environment old-fashioned morals and social restrictions still govern Christopher's life but are increasingly questioned.
My intention is to intersperse the books of Parade's End with other books throughout this summer--but I'm not sure how successful that plan will prove as this seems like the kind of work that one does not recover from easily.
It took lots of time to read this book and many times I had to put it down and pick up another book.
Ford also gave us differing points of view of the soldier on the front lines and the folks back home.
The author described the public opinions about war and relationships, along with the changes in views after the war.
This part was not a quick read but I am glad I slugged through it.
If you want to tackle this series I would recommend reading one part at a time and treat it as a series where you need to wait for the next installment.
I really enjoyed the segues back into time that, according to the introduction to my copy of the volume, are supposed to show how a mind is confused after being at war and also how it shows how events interrelate and remind one of other events in one's life.
as I hear that they are written in very different styles.
I am also impressed at how different a novel is from The Good Soldier.
It has the time-shifts and a few ruthless central characters, but otherwise it is life on a grand scale and much kinder to the human condition, again like Tolstoy.
A difficult novel to read for two reasons:Ford's structure took some adjusting to and when I eventually figured out that he would drop in a new part of the story which he wouldn't elaborate until 50 to 100 pages later, I settled into it.
However, that didn't make it any more enjoyable.Secondly, Christopher Tietjens sense of honour as an English gentleman of a very elite class, and as a husband and son in this narrow world, just became annoying.
Having persisted for just over 900 pages, it was frustrating to me that Ford couldn't have written one or two more pages.
For instance, what did Sylvia do after she FINALLY gave up tormenting Christopher and Valentine?
These are extraordinary books.
I first read them about 25 years ago and was very impressed.
then inspired by the very good TV version retread them September 2012.
I have yet to read the fourth one and am interested to see whether some of the scenes in the Stoppard screenplay come up in the final book.
The three books are beautifully constructed, with dramatic flashbacks and changes of pace.
The characters are so deeply portrayed - they are real human beings: even the dreadful Sylvia is not wholly bad and the saintly Tietjens is not wholly good.
Fascinating & intriguing read. I found it very funny in parts but then wondered if it was meant to be ironic? The streams of consciousness was so modern, the ideas and the mores examined complex and multilayered. Definitely rereading again just for the joy of the language. Love the main characters, too: Christopher saint or annoyng anachronism? Sylvie: banshee or just thwarted woman who supposedly can have evyrthing except what she wants? It made me spend lots of time thinking about what I'd read after I read it which hasn't happened for ages. Excellent.
"No More Parades", the second part of the tetralogy "Parades End" would be as brilliant as the first had it not been for the tedious descriptions of army life on the supply lines to the Western Front, and the confusing military acronyms. Ford Madox Ford continues, otherwise, to draw vivid descriptions of the behaviour, thoughts and motives of his main characters and elaborates upon on how British society, and its attitudes, changed irrevocably during World War One.
Beautifully written and a compulsive read. The characters are wonderfully drawn. I learnt so much about how British society worked in the run up to, and during, World War One. The "Old Order" was destroyed forever, dramatically and, for many individuals, devastatingly.I'm about to embark on the second book in the Parades End trilogy, "No More Parades". There is a fourth volume, which I believe is more of a sequel than it is a novel to complete a tetralogy.
So very heart-aching. So, very, very interior - a painstakingly drawn - and thus occasionally painful to read! - portrait of the inner life of a man struggling to adhere to his own honour in a world which seems to have abandoned all notion of such. Deciding between his unfaithful wife and devoted mistress-in-waiting, and set against the First World War, Christopher Tietjens strives in a picture of crumbling certainties in a changing world.Yeah, this book really upset me.
This book deals with Teitjen's time as a captain at a supplies depot, close to the Front during World War One. He has left Valentine and England behind, but Sylvia, on the war-path, follows him to France and stirs up a world of trouble in the process. To read my full review see: http://www.mybookaffair.net/2012/10/n...
Watched BBC adaptation and then bought the book. I had a holiday and it took a week to read but it was excellent. The characters are complex and rounded and the portrayal of the Great War is funny and heartbreaking by turns. must be one of the greatest novels of the last century. The BBC series is a fabulous adaptation with great production values - just a bit too condensed!
Wonderful - the last parts of Parade's End, Ford's brilliant books about a man out of touch with his times. The protagonist holds on to his old-school values in a Britain that's rapidly changing after World War I. Sometimes you admire him for his tenacity; at other times you want to kick some sense into him.
The sense of understanding every permutation of a character's psychology, even in the midst of a situation as unimaginably awful as the trenches of the First World War, is so intense that I am now missing this book very much and wishing I hadn't finished it.
If the measure of a book is how easily it transports you to another place, then Ford Maddox Ford's novel, 'Some Do Not', is certainly a masterpiece. For full review see: http://www.mybookaffair.net/2012/09/s...
Had the Vintage paperback for well nigh on twenty years. Should be in my line but could never quite get a hold of it somehow. Pity. Still, try again someday I expect.
Very hard to read, but totally worth it.
Chasing Shakespeare
Has its moments but not in the same class as The Good Soldier
Finding it impossible to finish....great reviews here but for me I pick it up and fall asleep....i quit.
BOTH BOOKS WERE WONDERFUL EVEN THOUGH THE VOCABULARY WAS A LITTLE DIFICULT AT TIMES
Loved this book, beautiful prose, if a bit strenuous due to constant consultation of the dictionary. Definitely merits re-reading. Great insights into England of the early 20th century.
Ford fans, watch this video.http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/6...
More coherent than the first Parades End novel. Wonderfully scathing about the command structure of the British Army in the trenches.
Not an way read but. Very absorbing ....and some great nasty characters. Will def read the other 3 ...eventually !
