https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4194.Poems
I've been trying to write a review of Steppenwolf for several months now and just don't know where to start...Anyway, the great thing about this collection is that it is a complete collection of all of the poems that Hesse wanted to publish.
What is stark with Hesse is there is not just the expected change in the themes and complexity of his work if you compare the early works with the later ones, but there is a marked differentiation of his approach to dealing with themes of darkness and isolation which interchange with other themes.
A slim volume of Hesse's poems (31 poems to be exact), selected and translated by the poet James Wright.The 31 poems are "I Know, You Walk", "Across the Field", "Elizabeth", "Ravenna (1)", "Ravenna (2)", "Lonesome Night", "A Swarm of Gnats", "The Poet", "Mountains at Night", "At Night on the High Seas", "To a Chinese Girl Singing", "Departure from the Jungle", "Evil Time", "On a Journey", "Night", "Destiny", "Ode to Hölderlin", "Childhood", "Lying in Grass", "How Heavy the Days...", "In a Collection of Egyptian Sculpture", "Without You", "The First Flowers", "Spring Day", "Holiday Music in the Evening", "Thinking of a Friend at Night", "Autumn Day", "To Children", "Flowers, Too", "Uneasiness in the Night", and "All Deaths".Hesse's Wanderings are well documented.
As I was cleaning up the public park I saw items on a picnic table that looked like books.
I love books like this.
I wanted to know these people he talked about lovingly, with sorrow, and longing.
I wanted to step into that world Hesse created and talk with these people.
It is ironic in finding a book of poetry by Hesse like I did.
It is actions like this that make me kick up my heels or ponder lengths at a time how I happen to find the book and the nature of it all.
Long live poetry!
گزیده شعرها هرمان هسه دو زبانه
Meravigliose
"How heavy the days are. There's not a fire to warm me,Not a sun to laugh with me,Everything bare,Everything cold and merciless,And even the beloved, clearStars look desolately down,Since I learned in my heart thatLove can die"
Over the years, I've gotten into the habit of collecting used, hardbound copies of Hermann Hesse's books.
Hart Memorial Library in Yorktown, New York, so it still has the awesome pocket with the stamped due date card.
I suppose I was expecting a lot as I'm a huge fan of Hesse's Siddhartha and Steppenwolf.
Perhaps I'll come across this book at a later date and discover something more worthwhile, but for now, I'm tempted to tear out the pages and use the beautiful binding and nostalgic library details as a new journal.
James Wright, circa 1970, at the height of the Hesse craze (Magister Ludi on the half-shell), brought these 31 poems into English, and the translations are like a combination of Edward Thomas and Rilke, only this enormously sober and cognitively ravishing hybrid also went to the Far East, and reported back, mostly before the European conflict that destroyed eight million men (including Thomas).
Obviously, I am able to parse my reverence for the translator from the almost gnostic difficulty of the poems, but I'm little inclined to do so given the talk elsewhere here on Hesse, the poet.
"I know many countries and cities are still waiting,But never again will the night of the forests,The wild fermenting garden of the earliest worldLure me in, and horrify me with its magnificence.Here in this endless and gleaming wildernessI was removed father than ever from the world of men--And i never saw so close or so clearlyThe image in the mirror of my own soul.""Now I drink pain in every delightAnd poison in every wine;I never knew it would be so bitterTo be alone, Alone, without you."
Loved it.
"He is homesick.
I do not know the answer, but I cherish Hesse because he at least knew how to ask the question." (James Wright in the Translator's Introduction)Wright selected and translated these poems which, yes, could be said to center around the theme of homesickness.
It is a short book but the poems are well chosen and cohere superbly.
Few are truly dark but some menace and they all question (in the larger sense).I will need to revisit this volume from time to time, no doubt.This edition is a bilingual one with the German on the left and the English on the right so may be of help to those trying to learn or better their German/English.
These are not the best poems you will ever read. They are repetitive, juvenile, and excessively obsessed with flowers and death. I find such vulnerability appealing, but even I had to chuckle a bit at the third or fourth nature allegory to the impermanence of a man's life. Hesse is a long-time favorite of mine, and I bought this book mainly to help complete my collection of his works, but this book is way down on the bottom of my list of Hesse favorites.
3.5 stars" I have already died all deaths,And I am going to dir all deaths again,Die the death of the wood in the tree,Die the stone death in the mountain,Earth death in the sand,Leaf death in the crackling summer grass,And the poor bloody human death.I will be born again, flowers,Tree and grass I will be born again,Fish and deer, bird and butterfly.And out of every form,Longing will drag me up the stairways,to the last suffering,Up to the suffering of men. "
"To Cheryl - On The Happiest Of Days, Love Michael" - that is what is handwritten inside the cover of my copy of this book, which I purchased at a used bookstore. I always wondered what the "happiest of days" was - a wedding? Birthday? Anniversary? Well, Michael's pretty cool for having gifted Cheryl this book of poetry - it is a wonderful collection of verses.
This is the only good Hesse I've ever read, and that's mostly because James Wright is a superb poet.
I felt like reading poetry today so I picked this tome up from my bookshelf - I don't know.
I really like his way to depict nature and the seasons though and sometimes his most random poems seemed to appeal the most to me.
As usual with male poets, I kind of cringe at the poems about women, but only because I have a hard time to put myself in their shoes.
They are kitschy as hell.He has a lot of poems where he describes illness and his fear of death and seems really depressed and I didn't read all of those.
This bilingual edition consists of a selection of 31 poems picked and translated by the Pulitzer Prize winning poet, James Wright.
It’s hard to imagine a more skilled editor / translator than James Wright, who was considered one of the best American poets of his time.
When I was reading up on Wright, I saw that major themes in his poems were “loneliness and alienation,” and those themes are certainly seen in this selection, though I cannot tell you if they’re representative of Hesse’s poetry over all or not.
Amazing poetry volume.
Being abroad on Paris, missing my country but at the same time missing Germany and missing all the places I've been to and all the places I've never seen, this anthology of poems about Homesickness, Heimweg, has been a perfect reading for me.I love his rhythms, his simpleness, his profoundness, his metaphors.
I love German.
I loved them all excepto, maybe, for Elisabeth.
My favourites, if I had to choose: Mückenschwarm, Der Dichter, Bei Nacht, Schicksal, and the masterpiece Die ersten Blumen.
I will stop writing long reviews.
The time has finally come to read what I love the most and to write.
Nämä vuosien 1895-1941 välisenä aikana kirjottetut runot tuntuivat hyvällä tavalla vanhanaikaisilta. Useimmissa oli riimejä, kuvasto ammensi paljon luonnosta. Melko simppeliä, mutta ihan tehokasta. Välillä tuli sellainen vaikutelma, että samaa toistettiin runosta toiseenkin. Olisi ollut mielenkiintoista, jos kirjoitusvuosi olisi merkitty jokaisen runon kohdalle, niin olisi voinut analysoida niitä esimerkiksi maailmansotien ja Hessen oman elämänvaiheiden kontekstissä selekämmin. Valinta tietysti tämäkin jättää vuodet pois. "Parhain tieto ja taito/on uskaltaa/yksin kaikki, mikä on /vaikeaa."
To Children(...)Nevertheless, you will be soldiers one dayAnd one day you will knowThat the sweet breath of this life,The precious possession of a heartbeat,Is only a loan, and that whatever was lostIn the past, and the heir you long for,And the farthest future,Rolls through your blood,And that for every hair on you headSomebody endured one struggle, one pain, one death.
Hesse poems or Get Up Kids lyrics?
Hesse, the archetype brooding seeker, is well represented by this collection of poems that offer a peek into his inner mind through sketches of angst.
There is probably a reason that Herman Hesse is not known for his poetry and I should have realized taht prior to picking up this little book of poems.
Perhaps the poems really don't translate well or maybe poetry simply is not his forte.
Some of the poems are boring and it seems impossible they could have came from the same man as Siddhartha.
But it is Hesse and there are some treasures here.
The three poems written in 1914 about and because of WWI redeem this little collection for me.
James Wright has done the world a service in translating this slight but potent volume of Hesse's verse.
I've no doubt that Wright chose well when selecting which poems to translate, but it would be nice to see a new talent take the baton and translate ALL of Hesse's poetry for an English audience."The Lake has died down,The reed, black in its sleep,Whispers in a dream.Expanding immensely into the countryside,The mountains look, outspread.They are not resting.They breathe deeply, and hold themselves,Pressed tightly to one another.Deeply breathing,Laden with mute forces,Caught in a wasting passion."
Worth it for this poem aloneNightI like the dark night well enough;But sometimes, when it turns bleakAnd peaked, as my suffering laughs at me Its dreadful kingdom horrifies me,And I wish to God I could take one look at the sunlightAnd the blue of heaven brought back to light by its clouds,And I want to lie down warm in the wide spaces of theday.Then I can dream of the night.Of course, it sounds so much better in German.
"The south winds roars at night,Curlews hasten in their flight,The air is damp and warm.Desire to sleep has vanished now,Spring has arrived in the nightIn the wake of a storm.Be still, my heart, away with pain!Though passion stirs againIn blood that now flows slowlyAnd leads to paths once known,These paths you tread in vainFor youth has flown."Worth it -- even in English translation.
2.5 starssterile poetry, felt like Hesse was just trying some writing exercises and not really feeling it. Some were okay, some I genuinely enjoyed, but most fell flat. Nothing spectacular about the language, though that might be in the translation as well. I did read some of them in German and English, but my German language skills aren't strong enough to say one way or another about the translation.
I feel like he was more of a consistent as a novelist than a poet. There are still tons of poems from this collection that I will routinely revisit as time goes on! He stays consistent in topic (existentialism, love, the natural world and it's connection with the human experience, etc.), and does a good job demystifying the mystical through poetry (make sense?). In other words, he spends more time describing his experiences through poetry,as opposed to ROMANTICIZING his experiences. #hessefan
Jeder, der einen Roman von Hermann Hesse gelesen hat, weiß dass einer seiner Lieblingsthemen die Einsamkeit ist und diese Sammlung durch James Wright von einige Gedichte von Hesse zeigt das. Es ist oft gesagt, dass ein Gedicht ist der kürzeste Roman und das ist sicherlich richtig über einige von Hesse Gedichte. Er erreicht der Seele des Leser in weniger als zwanzig Verse und liefert eine kraftvolle Botschaft. Ich empfehlen es.
I bought this book in my early 20s, and I am now 59. I have read these poems over and over, and every year they get more meaningful and more beautiful. Some are very sentimental, but hey we are talking about Hesse. The poems will make more of an impact if you have read at least a couple of his novels.
