https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7675.Disclosure
I read this book on the recommendation of one of my colleagues, a lady, who was also my senior in college. When I told her that I had finished it, she invited me to her room in the evening to discuss it. I said: "Are you crazy? I am not entering your room without a witness!"Crichton had got to me, very badly...
Usually this subject is brought up because of the power being leaked out of the other end of the spectrum, producing victims, yet here he shows that certainly isn't always the case, even if it's not politically correct to point that out.
--- but I read it for the story and not the dinosaur advancements.Sometimes first names are overused in dialogue, and sometimes characters are slightly one-dimensional, but it was an enjoyable corporate soap opera with a satisfying take-off turn in the end.
Good book.Read the book and saw the movie fifteen years ago. It was nice to spend couple days with Sanders, happy with his personal life and work. Sexual harassment, office politics turns him inside out.
There are plot twists every few pages.
Crichton does not allow plot threads to play out before there is another turn in the story.
This might make the novel sound like hackery, but a confusing and meandering plot is necessary to the themes Crichton wants to stress.Crichton used a technique in this book I don't think I've ever encountered.
A few of the major plot twists are incredibly obvious, even hundreds of pages in advance.
As you read, you keep waiting for the obvious plot twist to materialize, imploring the characters to connect dots, yet knowing they can't until they become educated on what the dots actually are.
The first time I saw the movie based on the book, it was fabulous.
Finally I couldn't resist when I saw a bargain on this one and I bought it since it was almost 15 years since i watched the movie.
The subject of sexual harassment is equally relevant today.
It might have been a novel thing 20 years back and to bring out a book on the subject where the harasser is a woman, is definitely commendable at that time.
Holy fuck is this some misogynistic hot garbage. How this viciously misogynistic drivel became a best seller and pop culture phenomenon is beyond me. This is arguably the single worst book I've ever hate-read, and I have read Dustin Diamond's memoir.
I love this book. I love the thriller. The haunting game between the boss and her employee on sexual harassment case. I was young adult then when i read this book. And this book spoke to me about respect and greed. I also like the movie.
MINI-REVIEW DISCLOSURE investigates what it's like for a man to be sexually harassed but have no one believe him (i.e. instead the computer company sides with the woman). As things worsen, we get to see the man's working world constrict around him as all his friends turn away.Of course, this all leads to a bigger matter, typical of the Crichton novels, but we love it.A very good read.OVERALL GRADE: B plus
Micheal Crichton is an ingenious story teller with beautifully crafted plot that revolves around corporate environment in a high-tech company.
The one thing about Mr. Crichton's books are his trademark use of technological advancement which he entwines perfectly in the design of his plot.
The most pleasurable thing about reading the book is, it is articulate.
All technology is explained in simple conversation which makes the book simple and a really fast read.
But its not just technology; the story is also about sexual harassment by the newly appointed boss Meredith Johnson (also the ex-lover)of Tom Sanders (our protagonist)and the abuse and manipulativeness of executive power in a corporate structure.
Provocative. Still relevant. Makes you think. Whom would you believe ? Log in.
Which is fine, that's when the book was written, but it's so funny how the book trying so hard to seem contemporary and topical makes it feel dated that much sooner.
I'm not sure it actually all came together in the end.(SPOILERS)OK, at the end, we find out that Meredith's goal was to get rid of Tom, so that she wouldn't be blamed for her screw ups.
Fine, but...
It was clearly her intent to actually have sex with him.
When that didn't work out, she decided to file the false sexual harassment complaint, but what was the original plan?
A book that demonstrates the corporate world can be just as dangerous as any geopolitical venue. This novel, along with John Grisham's The Firm, strongly influenced my own first novel, Terminal Value. It strikes just the right balance of the details required to inform the reader about business and the actions necessary to propel its plot.
This is my first Crichton novel, amazingly enough—I’m obviously way late to the party! Anyway, it’s a very fast-paced, energetic novel that covers the highly-charged and sensitive topic of sexual harassment in the workplace, with the “twist” of the accusation being made by a male employee against his female superior. The writing was smooth and I was immersed in the story from beginning to end. Interesting to read in the Afterword that it’s “based on a true story.”
I'm always in awe of Michael Crichton. His works are just so diverse. Dinosaurs, gorillas, spaceships, diseases, and this time female-on-male sexual harassment and computers. I liked this book much more than the movie version I saw many years ago. I always liked the story, but Demi Moore rubs me the wrong way (and that was even pre-Ashton Kutcher). Both the role reversal sexual harassment and the IT/virtual reality aspects are very much still relevant 15 years after the book being published. I was surprised at how good this book was after seeing the movie.
The presentation of many characters as ruthless, uncaringly ambitious and utterly devoid of any moral compass creates an atmosphere in which even a flawed hero can appear almost saintly by comparison.There were times, early in the book, when I was unsure whether I would read to the end.
It’s an absolutely essential aspect of the story for me: without at least one character I can empathise with, I’m unlikely to finish a novel.
S obzirom na okolinu u kojoj je smještena radnja takve optužbe za sobom nose mnoge dodatne probleme, karakterizacija glavnih likova je jako dobra i njihova motivacija i djelovanje su vrlo uvjerljivi.Filmska adaptacija istoimenog naziva vjerno prati predložak i zapravo je jako zanimljiva jer je većinu dijelova koji su u knjizi rastegnuti komprimirala, što je u konačnici rezultiralo jednim dobrim dvosatnim trilerom s dobrom glumačkom postavom.Opći dojam slušanja knjige je vrlo zanimljiv i s obzirom da mi je ovo bila prva audio knjiga koju sam slušao bilo je to jedno novo iskustvo.
After watching the movie I wanted to read this book so bad because I enjoyed the movie.
All the suspence and the story in this book was very interesting and the whole 'cat-mouse' game was thrilling AF.
This is one of the more ''mild'' scenes to say the leastI hope you get the picture what is the main theme of this book is about, but don't get misled that this is all about sex because it is a game...
It was different than many of his other books, basically based on a real story where a woman had sexually harassed men in the work place and gotten away with it for years as a favorite of the boss.
An intelligent manipulative woman, she knew how to gain the boss's respect and stay in his good graces, mostly by playing to his emotional needs.
Excellent read and good pacing.
I really like Crichton and he never fails to make me think.
Crichton never fails to excite and explore unknown areas.Definitely worth reading and I recommend heartily.
Michael Crichton is an excellent author, he really knows a lot about his technology.
A business executive, Tom Sanders who works for a computer firm is expecting to become the new director of his company.
But things change when a female employee named Meredith Johnson gets promoted, and Meredith happens to be Tom's former lover.
As Tom scrambles to defend himself, he finds an electronic trail into the company's secrets and discovers a scheme that could cost him his job.
Anyone who likes Michael Crichton or techno-thrillers, I recommend this book.
My Rating - 3.5/5This was a nice entertaining read on an otherwise boring 36 hrs train journey. Based on a true story of sexual harassment in corporate world, it was a superbly paced gripping thriller with frequent plot twists. The virtual data library (sci-fi) part was bit of a distraction from the main plot. Enjoyed the enigmatic dialogues of Max Dorfman(the old man in wheelchair).Though felt there were a few plot holes with some unanswered questions.
GARBAGE!
(3.75) There exists a certain cuteness (sweet nostalgia?) reading a technology-based novel from the 1990s.
soberingly) the same issues, bias, and stereotypes exist today.
At the end of the novel there's an endnote that this story is a Rorscach test.
That what you see and more importantly, what you feel about this story reveals something about you.
The narrator was terrific (A++) and this was an excellent choice for a 4-hour round trip car ride today.
I can see how this novel made a lot of noise in the 90s.UPDATE: omggg just realized the narrator was John Litgow!
I loved the book's whole premise and the way it was dealt with allowed the reader to see how notoriously fraught with difficulty sexual harassment cases are.There are many characters throughout but it never felt like it was overdone.
The characters in this book were well described and developed and they came across as very real and believable.I absolutely loved this book and now I want to get, and read, many more of Crichton’s books.
Up and coming executive Tom Sanders is secure in his job and his line of work.
While disappointed, he accepts the condolences of his peers and adjusts his thinking taking into consideration that no one had ever formerly offered him the job.
Thinking he is there to discuss the hardware failure he is surprised to find two bottles of wine and a boss ready for pleasure.
When word gets out Sanders seeks out an attorney on whose advice he tells his wife and rethinks the issue of sexual harassment.
Sanders comes up with a scheme that will turn Digicom and its merger upside down.
On the other hand, this book's take on the subject did not come off as feminist or liberatory for people of any gender.
Of the book's women characters, only one is decent; the others are "bitches" or neutral.
The one self-identified feminist character in the book, sadly, falls into the "bitch" category.
Add to that the many comments by various characters in the book disparaging women's right, anti-harassment laws, and women's position in the corporate world.
Unfortunately, Crichton lost an opportunity to show how women in the corporate world can be allies of men in the fight against sexual harassment and how men can support other men in the same fight.
I was curious about this book for long, because...well, we talk about Michael Crichton, the master of SF. And this book about sexual harassment...from a woman to a man. I have no idea how the story would go. And finally, I have a chance to read it, thx to Mrs. Alie Marie.Off course this book not talked about the sexual harassment only. Crichton still put technology as the main problem. And one thing amazed me, the whole 498 pages only tell a story of 4 days :D Bravo, Mr.Crichton. I do adore your works.
Lately, Michael Crichton has become one of my favorite authors, and I especially liked Jurassic Park, The Lost World a little bit less, and Congo a touch less than that, with Micro and, now, Disclosure, joining the realm of "meh".First, the "tech" is just not that techy, now it comes across as outdated.
I just don't care for the characters, namely, the protagonist.Third, the book comes across as anti-women.
It's techy, but the tech is neither interesting nor adds to the story, it's just the character's job, I get that they're smart but it's also boring, and, after twenty years, a bit outdated.
Melihat tulisan yang ada di cover buku ini, sungguh sangat berbeda dengan buku-bukunya yang lain, karena disitu tertulis: “Pelecehan Seksual Seorang Bos Wanita terhadap Bawahan Prianya.” Bisa terlihat kalau dari sini sangat gak-sci-fi-banget.
Namun, ada hal yang lebih besar dari itu, buku ini menyadarkan kita tentang kenyataan di masyarakat luas bahwa pelecehan seksual seorang wanita terhadap pria itu tidak mungkin terjadi.
Jadi, seakan anda browsing data di komputer anda, tetapi ini dengan gerakan-gerakan seperti dunia nyata, membuka laci, membuka-buka arsip, hingga mengetahui detail dari data dan arsip tersebut.Satu hal lagi yang menjadi kekhasan Crichton dalam buku-bukunya (yang telah saya baca) adalah adanya tokoh-tokoh yang terkesan tengil.
At over 400 pages,this was way too long.The central idea is interesting,sexual harassment by a woman,who also portrays herself as the victim.I also saw the Bollywood movie Aitraz,based on this book and remember it for a masterly performance by Priyanka Chopra.
The To Kill a Mockingbird of the 90s?... no. But still an interesting read.
