https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40745.Mindset
I was about to give this book a one-star rating because I was so irritated with Dr. Dweck trying to shoehorn her idea into every single success story in the history of humanity and basically saying that her theory was the best explanation of that success.
If only they had the Growth mindset, like the Yankees, they would win more World Series.Dweck may be too in love with her own ideas to realize that she oversells the usefulness of her theory to the extent that the portion that is actually workable seems underwhelming after cutting away from her salesman-like puffery.
However, Mindset still serves as a useful supplement to a change manager's library.
Here is a message to anyone close to me who may over hear me saying, 'I must read that popular psychology book ...', at some point in the future.
Don't let me forget how vapid and uninspiring this book was.
Please remark: 'don't forget about Mindset Mark!' Let me try and save you some time by summarising (not sure if this qualifies as a spoiler, I guess not): it is bad to think your skills and knowledge are limited.
If you have children, as I do, then: try to avoid rewarding achievement more than effort.
Because rewarding effort encourages development of the growth mindset.
I keep hearing educators praising this author and, specifically, this book.
Are there really people who think that if you go into something with a negative attitude it won't affect the outcome?
Not trying guarantees you won't do it, but trying really hard doesn't mean you will.
Lots of people try hard for years to get into the Olympics and they don't.
The author also inserted herself pretty aggressively into this book.
This book is dated enough that her stories of the greatness of Tiger Woods is pretty funny.
I found Malcolm Gladwell's Outliers to be a much better book about a similar topic.
For practical insights refer to:  Growth Mindset vs Fixed MindsetHave ever noticed those geeks, geniuses, and world-class achievers while thinking to yourself, gosh, if only I had such talents, or if only I had such high IQ?
Now, let’s see how children are endowed with the growth mindset.Imagine, again, the very same scenario, you solve a problem and now it is time for some praises … Your parent, instructor, while marveling at your accomplishments, says: Hmm, good job, this might have been an easy puzzle, let’s do something more challenging…orHmm, good job, you seem to have worked so hard, let’s move on to a harder puzzle.
I'm particularly prone to the "Effort Gone Awry" scenario where I would work hard, but not with a growth mindset (i.e., one associated with the love of learning).
I worked hard to have achievements that would validate my self worth and adopted identity.
چیزهایی رو می گفت که من همیشه می دونستم ولی خوندن این کتاب بهم نشون داد که همیشه ناراضی بودم چون این هارو می دونستم و هیچوقت برای خودم عملی نکردماز موقعی که هشت سالم بود با بچه های ضعیف تر کلاس ریاضی کار می کردم و با همه ی کودکیم اعتقاد داشتم که اگر بیشتر تلاش کنند می تونند.
نه اینکه فوق‌العاده و خاص به دنیا بیای، باید بشی و اگر نیستی فقط تقصیر خودتهامتیاز کتاب به خاطر تاثیرش روی فکرم بود و اینکه هرجوری نوشته شده موفق شد این کار رو بکنه95.12.12
Not only that, but I'm pretty sure no one should require me to read a shitty waste-of time self help book.Let me save you the money and the aggrivation: The point of this book is (admittedly) not terrible, but it could be summed up real fast.
Here you go, you're welcome.Often, people see their abilities as 'fixed' and this attitude stops them from working to better themselves, turns out that if you work hard and keep the right can-do attitude, that you can accomplish more than if you think you're doomed to be a particular skill level forever.
Where X person did Y thing that turned out to be good/bad?
I think a lot of people who rated this book highly must have had a "fixed mindset".I think this book was a waste of money, personally.
If you have a fixed mindset you'll have lower grades in school, be unhappier, die earlier, be fatter, (be more likely to) never get married, make a bundle less money, you name it!
Dweck's tone really just grated on my nerves, and I don't feel I gained anything useful from reading what parts of the book I read.
I can't imagine anything more useful coming to light at the end.
Essentially, the book makes a case that those people who look at everything they do in life as a learning opportunity are much more successful.
Whether thats getting rejected from something (a job, a team, etc), messing up at work, having your boss yell at you, losing at something, getting laid off, making a bad bet, etc - most of us have many setbacks in our lives.
If on the other hand, we look at it as something we can learn from, we improve as a person.I came at the book as it was recommended to me as being good for parents.
fixed and growth.Believing that your qualities are carved in stone -- the fixed mindset -- creates an urgency to prove yourself over and over.
Will I feel like a winner or a loser?...There's another mindset in which these traits are not simply a hand you're dealt and have to live with, always trying to convince yourself and others that you have a royal flush when you are secretly worried it's a pair of tens.
This growth mindset is based on the belief that your basic qualities are things you can cultivate through your efforts.
I agree that the right attitude, one that embraces struggle and hard work in order to increase your talents (which are not fixed, but fluid), helps you succeed in life.
This book offers very little practical advice or steps one can take in order to do so.
Maybe even a companion book to put this idea into action to train the elephant in you (thanks Happiness Hypothesis).Ultimately, success requires the right attitude but also the sweat to make it happen.
And this doesn't really offer practical steps on how to make it happen.
Its case after case of "this person tried to succeed and failed because he didn't have the right mindset".
Do you mind explaining to me what the right mindset ACTUALLY IS?
And she never tells you how to get into that mindset.
There is no compare and contrast with the first part of the book to bring things into a proper context.IOW, shes not teaching you about mindset, shes just telling you.
And though Colvin's book can get dry at time, it still has forward movement, and ideas build upon previous ones, and things are explained very well.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Micro-Multi-Task: "Mindset: The New Psychology of Success" by Carol S.
Dweck(original review, 2006)Following the footsteps of some who is great in order to be great is moronic.
Only talentless fools would look to do the same as others to be successful.
The only way to succeed is by doing what you love and get obsessed by it.
It is like when you get with a girl that you love and it doesn't matter how pretty people say other’s girls are in comparison to yours; it is yours the most beautiful in your eyes.
Here is just a small sampling of ridiculousness that is within the pages of this book:- A section is literally begun with the words "Since the dawn of time." Your average ninth grader should be aware that this is a terrible idea.- An extensive summary of the movie "Groundhog's Day" is given as support for a theory of psychology.- Half the book is filled with "interesting trivia" that suggest that people who begin stupid can work hard and be AMAZING!!!
The author read a book once that told a story about a four month old baby who asked his parents "Mom and Dad, what are we eating for dinner tonight?" This is third-hand, not cited, and completely un-credible.

Dweck argues that we should adapt the growth mindset because it aids in parenting, academics, relationships, and more.As a Psychology major I learned about growth and fixed mindsets in my classes, and it was cool to see Dweck apply the concepts to several different areas, such as sports, marriage, and politics.
However, I wish she had done more with her main argument: instead of delving deeper into the psychology behind the mindsets, it felt like she stayed at the surface level of her ideas and applied them to a wide range of interesting yet repetitive anecdotes.
It simply wouldn't do to look or feel deficient in these most basic characterstics.""The growth mindset is based on the belief that your basic qualities are things you can cultivate through your efforts.
I was more interested in learning than in being the best - the latter would have been futile in the group I was in anyway.The psychology classes of those highschool years taught me about IQ tests and the difficulty of measuring such a thing because of biases.
If I had had a fixed mindset, I would probably not have put so much effort into learning how to be a better boss having believed my traits and talents fixed.
This is a book which the administrators in my organization are reading.
But even worse is the informality of the anecdotes and conclusions.Her thesis is that there are two types of people in the world, those with a "fixed mindset" and those with a "growth mindset." The former believe that their intelligence and ability are "fixed" and there is no opportunity to become smarter or more able.
The author claims he committed suicide because he had a fixed mindset and could not accept that his restaurant lost a "star" in the leading restaurant guide in Europe.
This is as simple as it is revolutionary.
What I love most is that the concept will improve yourself, but even if you struggle to change your mindset from 'fixed' to 'growth' you can instill benefits on others by praising work rather than talent.If you've ever praised someone for being 'smart' or destined to be the 'next Mozart' or a 'natural' you'll realize that you've inadvertently wrecked havoc on their psyche.
The 'growth' and 'fixed' mindset concepts extend to every aspect of life and, unlike many self-help books, it's not necessarily something that's common sense.
This IS revolutionary.
Almost all of us know what the author is trying to say"have a growth-mindset and success is about learningit is not about proving you are smart...and that innate talent is nothing because success is 99% hard work..."even children know that!!!the book is full of examples and stories to prove thatbut...but I like this book because of two reasons:1.
The author teaches you how to find a good mindset which works for you.2.
She helps you to find it because the book gives you a huge set of stories and examples which you can use their experience on your way.I recommend this book to everybody but especially to athletes, students, businessmen, and couples3.5
A bit long-winded at times, but well worth reading. The repetition could be frustrating, but the reinforcement was likely beneficial. I'm starting to see the growth and fixed mindset all around me, especially in other books I'm reading and movies I'm watching, and it's fascinating to realize how important this shift in attitude is to my approach to the world.
This book characterizes two mindsets, the fixed and the growth-oriented.
If you're talented, you shouldn't have to work hard, and if you fail, then you just weren't as talented as you thought you were.
The growth mindset is the opposite.
Hard work is more important to success than talent, and when you fail, you just have to plan a better strategy for success.
The book goes on to show applications of both mindsets in sports, business, relationships, education, and parenting.
It didn't matter; the point is the psychology.The author acknowledges that it's not easy to rid yourself of the fixed mindset.
I feel like the criticism this book gets is an exhibit of fixed mindset. Simple concept, yes, but universally applicable. Definitely left a profound impact on how I think and see the world, and I would like people around me to have read it. So five stars.
I did think it was valuable to apply this principle to relationships (chapter 6); it's nice to have someone confirm that good relationships are a lot of hard work and that if a relationship requires a great deal effort that does not mean that you failed to find your true love.While having a growth mindset is a prerequisite to success, I don't personally think changing your mindset is the greatest impediment to success.
I think a lot of people believe they could succeed, but they feel like they lack the motivation and energy to make the effort to do things that are really difficult.
Reread this wonderful gem, confirming the fact that this book really is a game changer.
This rereading also confirmed that this is one of the books that will accompany my growth throughout different phases of my life.
It has pressed me to recognize the areas in which I had a fixed mindset and those in which I had a growth mindset and it has helped me change my view in the areas I had that fixed mindset.I was already able to see the difference in my behavior from the first reading to the second.
2.5☆First, the concept was good, the first chapters were great but then the I found the book to be very repetitive, it could have been written in about 150 pages, and a little bit judgmental, sometimes even a bit hard on the people with the fixed mindset.
According to Dr. Dweck (a Stanford psychology professor), each of us adopts one of two mindsets about life: the fixed or growth mindset.
Obviously, those who believe that leaders are “born, not made” subscribe to the fixed mindset.
Over the long haul, the more successful athletes, teachers, spouses, coaches, professionals and entrepreneurs naturally tend to manifest beliefs and behaviors characteristic of the growth mindset.
Dweck and other similarly minded leadership scholars believe that leaders emerge naturally in organizations that prize learning and manifest pervasive growth mindsets.
Operating out of a growth instead of fixed mindset, by contrast, transforming leaders seek to enlarge the size of the relevant pie.
This made it hard to take her book seriously at all.3) Her idea of fixed and growth "mindsets" is NOT a new psychology, it is the concept of self-esteem by a new name.
This issue is tied, not just to our psychology, but to the WAY we think, it's tied to how our brains form concepts and abstractions, it's tied to our repression of our own fear of death--our attempts to control life, it's tied to religion and our ideas of "good" and "bad." It's tied to our culture and the messages we get in school and in the media, regardless of how we were parented.
Очень хорошая книга по саморазвитию! Пожалуй, одна из лучших за последние годы. Идея вроде бы проста: у каждого человека есть установка на рост ИЛИ установка на данность. Преобладающая установка определяет, будем ли мы меняться/учиться/личностно расти или нет. Вопрос проработан в книге очень хорошо, и заставляет ка следует задуматься над собой :)Мега-рецензия в моём блоге: http://s-kalinin.blogspot.ru/2013/10/...
حرف این کتاب این است که دو نگرش وجود دارد یکی نگرش رشد و دیگری نگرش سکون، به این صورت که انسان باید 
