https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32506.The_Poet
In truth, though, the author doesn't begin to inhabit the character of Jack McEvoy in the same way and to the same depth as he does the character of his more noted series protagonist, homicide detective Harry Bosch.
McEvoy is well drawn, but he's not nearly as compelling or as interesting as Bosch.The book opens with the apparent suicide of McEvoy's twin brother, Sean, a Denver homicide detective.
In researching the subject, he discovers that a number of other homicide detective across the country have apparently committed suicide in ways similar to his brother, Sean.
Jack’s twin brother was a cop who apparently shot himself, but when Jack decides to exploit his tragic death by writing a story about police suicides, the research indicates that a serial killer has been stalking cops across the country and making it look like they killed themselves.
So it seems like the old Rocky Mountain News had some pretty sloppy business practices going on when it came to covering stories.You can probably tell that I wasn’t overly fond of Jack as a character.
It’s too bad, because this was a better than average serial killer story with new take on the premise and lots of good twists and turns to keep it interesting.
When his twin brother, Sean, a homicide detective, is found dead in his car by what's ruled a self-inflicted gunshot, Jack decides he wants to write his story.
But, the more he probes, his suspicions grow about it possibly being a murder.
While this case is referenced in early Harry Bosch stories, Harry doesn't make an appearance here.
But, it's important to get the background on the case origins before Harry does get involved so that's why it is part of the Harry Bosch Universe.
This one is really different because Jack's a reporter, not a detective or private investigator so he doesn't have cop instincts.
I really liked this book. It has a strong beginning and a lot of credible characters. What I liked most was the fact that it seemed to end on page 450. I thought: Ok, not a bad solution, but a bit obvious. But then I noticed there were still 100 pages to go. Finally I realized the end was not the end, but only a fake end, and then the "real story" was about to begin. Very strong and surprising until the very last page.
to the chilling conclusion, this haunting tale grabs you by the scuff of your neck and never lets go.
Jack has a difficult time accepting that his brother Sean, a homicide detective, would take his own life, further still he does not understand his brother's last words, written by his hand just before death " Out of space.
Out of time" He begins to investigate the possible meaning in that message and in the process uncovers other deaths and other quotes, left by a suicidal hand.
As Jack's investigation continues it becomes clear that he is on the path of a serial killer of unprecedented savagery.
It’s a tough subject to deal with in writing.Michael Connelly, in his riveting but disturbing novel “The Poet”, attempts to write about pedophilia without walking on eggshells.
To explain: Connelly uses the subject matter of pedophilia to create a taut, edge-of-the-seat crime thriller, something which he succeeds in doing.
From an objective standpoint, the killer’s life is a sad one, and he appears (like almost all pedophiles) to have been a victim of gross sexual abuse as a child himself.From a subjective standpoint, I didn’t give a shit.
Loved this one and now starting on the second. Hope it is as good. Great story great characters.
This is less of a review than it is a sort of caveat to my rating—the caveat being that I listened to this book. I don't know if there are multiple audio versions of   The Poet    out there, or if they just love to re-copyright things every few years, but the 1996 audible edition felt like it undermined the story's natural suspense. Don't get me wrong,  Michael Connelly's  brand of mystery/thriller writing isn't exactly subtle, but echo-chamber effects made moments of tension feel downright hoke
brand of mystery/thriller writing isn't exactly subtle, but echo-chamber effects made moments of tension feel downright hokey.That being said, the many twists and turns made it a worthwhile experience (and I definitely still trust Richard's recommendations*).
role as a reporter makes him into a different sort of leading man.
McEvoy is a storyteller by trade, so it feels natural that his narrative voice frames the tension so well.
There were moments at which I had to make a concerted effort to suspend disbelief, but in the end, it was an enjoyable read, just not a recommended listen.____________________________________*I take full responsibility for going “off-piste” by listening to the audio version.
Wow, what a book. Excellent story, great attention to detail and fantastic characters. Connelly has confirmed himself (in my mind) as the best in the game. Everyone else pales in comparison.
Not long into the story those strands turn to webs and lead to things getting pretty hectic.
Before you know it, Jack Mac is in with the FBI globetrotting around being the main guy in the investigation and on the hunt for the elusive “Poet” with several potential enemies.Instantly you can tell that Michael Connelly used to be a crime reporter with the way he writes like a man who knows what he’s talking about.
It’s not his most impressive work but for a quick read and a look into the world of media in the 90’s/early 00’s then it’s pretty interesting and enjoyable.
I think I still like The Micky Haller character best of his creations but this is my favorite book "outside that series" so far.
Jack is a reporter and as such the cops (nor the FBI) wants to listen to him, that is until he comes up with irrefutable proof that not only was his brother not a suicide but that his death is tied in with other deaths.The story is very well constructed and the book is what is usually termed a "page turner".
I am so glad I listened to their recommendation.This was an amazing novel...the best I have ever read by this talented author.Jack McEvoy was a reporter for the Rocky newspaper, who wrote about murder stories."Death was his Beat." Sean,his twin brother,a veteran Denver Police detective was in charge into the slaying of a University student, Theresa Lofton, found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.Sean McEvoy was found in his unmarked car...an apparent suicide.
He joins forces with the FBI to solve the mystery.The FBI began a manhunt for a serial killer who had claimed as many as seven homicide detectives as his victory.He was named "The Poet" because he left notes containing lines of poetry from the work of Edgar Allan Poe, at each murder scene, disguising the deaths as suicides.
My first non Harry Bosch by Connelly & I'm impressed. Jack is a great character & the plot was fantastic, especially twisty. Great characters, very realistic. I loved the way so many cases were handled & how easily other interpretations could come of the results. Good could be bad or maybe not. Connelly really knows how to walk the gray lines & made this quite a unique mystery thriller. I'm definitely looking forward to continuing his books. Next up is Harry Bosch #5, Trunk Music.
Rating: 3.5 very pleased stars of fiveConnelly's Harry Bosch series will either make you want to read this book, or run from it.
I liked the Harry Bosch mysteries well enough, but I really respond more to Jack McEvoy, Denver journalist and crusader for the rights of victims of crime.This is the first appearance by McEvoy.
Jack's brother, a homicide cop, is dead...and naturally Jack wants to know how the current spate of killings relate to the Poet, as this serial killer is known.What happens next is everything!
Connelly, however, didn't graft them onto the story he told, he made them part and parcel of the case from the get-go.
This is a reasonably well-written book and, in places, a true page-turner with a solid premise.
That said, ultimately I couldn't get past the book's weaknesses.
For much of the book the guy was shoved around and bland, a dud with little to say -- to the point where I felt ticked off, and never "got" Rachel's interest in him, not remotely.
He writes better than many authors and, as such, I'd read another of his books, but not without consulting with a good number of reviews first.
Alternatively exciting and absurd, full of outrageous plot holes, with a protagonist who seems lost much of the time....I really struggled with this book, and almost put it down for good several times.
- However, I was told that it is important for my next Harry Bosch The NarrowsAnd to be fair, about half of the book is superbly paced, but with the unsympathetic protagonist dragged along.
Some supporting characters were good while others were laughable - right out of high school *facepalm*The first climax of this book was acceptable, but then, as Connelly often writes, there is a twist.
I can now check this one off of my Connelly list of books read.What I call my “yuk factor” was about a nine on a scale one to 10.
Although it was a good book, Jack McEvoy, a journalist with the Rocky Mountain News, wasn’t all that impressive to me as the main character.He didn’t seem to be very confident although I give him high grade on persistence.
Otherwise, a pretty good read which I’m glad I did because Harry Bosch has grown on me and I want to get to the next in the series.I'm a fan of Raymond Chandler and according to Connelly’s Goodreads bio, he is also fan.
While there are lots to like in this story, there are a few issues that leave this listener unfulfilled. The main protagonist is whiny, weak and dense at times. Overall, a solid if not completely satisfying novel. 7 of 10 stars
There were things I liked about this book, and on the other hand, there were things I didn't care for.
I'll settle for 3 stars, even though in some ways, that seems extremely generous.First, I like Michael Connelly.
In this book, Jack is the MC and I liked him, but I'm not going to lie....there were problems with this.
Also some of dialogue and actions seemed not only dated as well, but they didn't go with what I was being asked to believe (especially with Rachel, and the FBI bigwig).I wanted to love this like I have loved his other books, but that didn't happen.
Una novela policíaca que se desarrolla a un ritmo bastante lento y en la que no puede faltar la sorpresa final o “plot twist” típico del género (lo ves venir, aunque no llegues a adivinarlo sabes que está ahí). Me creía muy lista y el autor me ha engañado como a una china. El final sorprende pero todavía no tengo claro si leeré el segundo libro de la serie de Jack McEvoy.
It's been a long time since I've read a straight-up police procedural style thriller...
I love the fast paced style, the clues, trying to figure things out along with the characters, seeing inside the system, all of it.
I enjoyed every stage of it, and even though I knew that this was only the first book of a series, I was still worried about what might happen.
I actually worried a little that the book had strayed into a kind of supernatural bent, and that Jack was catching glimpses of things pertaining to the investigation, but didn't know how they fit yet.
এডগার অযালান পো। সবলপায়ু অথচ বহুপরজ এই লেখকের লেখার অনযতম এক অনুষঙগ ছিল মানব-মনের অনধকারতম দিক। মানুষের মৃতযুভয়, আতঙক, আতমবিধবংসী পরবণতা, চরম অসহায়তব—এসব নিয়ে এমন সব পিলে চমকানো গলপ ফাঁদতেন তিনি যে এসব পড়ে আঁতকে উঠতে হয়। মানুষের মনের অনধকারতম অংশের উপসথাপনা পো'য়ের চেয়ে সুচারুরূপে আর কেউ বোধহয় এখনও পরযনত করতে পারেনি। তাই তো বেশ কিছু পুলিস অফিসারের আতমহতযার পর সুইসাইড নোট হিসেবে যখন অযালান পো'য়ের কবিতার পঙকতি পাওয়া যায়, এরকম পরিসথিতিতে পো'য়ের কবিতাই সবচেয়ে উপযুকত মনে হয়। কিনতু অপরাধ-সাংবাদিক জন ময

(I think it belongs in all four categories.)Jack McEvoy, a Denver-based reporter, sets out to find what happened with his brother, Sean, who apparently has killed himself.
This sets Jack on a mission/reporting job which starts in Colorado and takes him to Baltimore, Maryland; Quantico, VA; Hollywood, California and other locations.
There are red herrings, clues you're going to miss but shouldn't, and revelations that are really astounding when Jack discovers a serial killer is targeting both police detectives AND children.
As I read I thought, how's the author going to sort this out?
I didn't keep a cue sheet this time, but I read it fairly rapidly, in less than two days.
(Too many books on my TBR list).The story is told mainly in the first person narrative from the perspective of reporter Jack McEvoy and his nemesis the mysterious character named “Eidolon”, Mr. Connelly switches to the third person when the story is told from the view point of Gladden, the pedophile.
Being written a long time ago makes some of the technology outdated but if you were around then you will definitely remember the phone booth, the sound of a modem dialing…a bit of nostalgia…does no harm…Of course death is at the heart of this novel.
Mr. Connelly is considered as one of the biggest crime fiction writers out there and after a thorough research I decided to start with this one.
The first person narrative grips you at the start but it tapers off in the middle and leaves a lot of questions unanswered at the end.Right up to the page 400 I had made up my mind to give it a 2.
It keeps you guessing right up to the end.This and the reasonably good writing made me give it another star.
Newspaper Reporter Jack McEvoy is having a hard time coping with the suicide of his twin brother, Detective Sean McEvoy.
Jack tries to deal with the situations by writing his brother's story.
But research into police suicides leads Jack to believe that his brother may have been murdered.
All were declared suicides, and all left a short note that contained a line of poetry written by Edgar Allen Poe. When Jack gives the FBI the information he has dug up, he makes a deal that he will be part of their investigation and write the exclusive story when they arrest the Poet.
Muy buen libro policíaco. Empieza lento pero con una trama absorbente. Asimismo, me resultó bastante pesado. No se me hizo insoportable, sin embargo la combinación de la lentitud con esa densidad fue decisivo para ponerle 3 estrellas. No obstante, como ven, la novela tiene mis 4 estrellas. Sinceramente pocos libros de misterio me lograron sorprender. Éste lo hizo. Por eso mismo se lleva las 4. Cuando se creía que ya estaba todo zanjado, Michael Connelly sacó un as bajo su manga que me dejó obnubilado. Muy buen final. Buen libro de misterio. Recomendado.
Outstanding. This may be the best Connelly book of all. It is the best that I have read, even though the beginning (first 10% or so) was slow and repetitive. McEvoy is not as strong of a personality as either Bosch or Haller. But the book overall is stronger than the Bosch and Haller books I've read.
Enjoyed this book very much. hard to put down. I will be reading more books from this writer very soon. Thanks to Cameron for picking this book.
Ε, άλλα να μην πω, να τα διαβάσετε μόνοι σας.Να διευκρινίσω αρχικά ότι εγώ διάβασα την παλιά έκδοση του βιβλίου (που κυκλοφόρησε το έτος 2000, με το πανέμορφο μαύρο εξώφυλλο με τον κόκκινο κύκλο), αλλά δεδομένου ότι επανακυκλοφορεί από τον ίδιο εκδοτικό και δεν έχει ιδιαίτερη διαφορά στον αριθμό των σελίδων θεωρώ ότι δεν υπάρχουν αλλαγές στο κείμενο.Ο τρόπος γραφής του Connelly είναι απλός, γρήγορος και ωραίος.
Τον τελευταίο καιρό παρατηρώ ότι εκδίδονται βιβλία που χαρακτηρίζονται μεν ως Αστυνομικά, αλλά το κύριο βάρος πέφτει στο κοινωνικό τους μήνυμα ή στο πώς θα μας γυρίσουν το στομάχι ανάποδα με τις ανατριχιαστικές και λεπτομερέστατες περιγραφές της σκηνής του φόνου.
