https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/212349.The_Ninja
The next scene they share together ends with this sentence:She licked at his neck as he used his hands on her, all over, increasing her pleasure, riding high within her, and at the end, when she found the tension almost unbearable, when the sweat and the saliva ran down her arms and between her breasts, pooling in her navel, when his frictioning against her was so intense that it took on a kind of third dimension, she used her inner muscles once, twice, heard him gasp, felt herself balancing on the brink, the thudding of their hearts heavy in her inner ear, whispering to him, "Come, darling, come -- ohhh!" gasped out as she felt his probing finger, slick with their mingled juices, at the opening of her anus and lost all control, filled with fire all the way up to her throat.Let's set aside that this unwieldy chunk of text is one sentence that contains twenty commas.
Though to use either term in describing this incredibly juvenile masturbatory fantasy is an offense to books and stories everywhere.
I like to think (delude myself into thinking) that if I read someone's guilty pleasure then I'll get some sort of insight or understanding into their character.
All I learned about my neighbor by reading Van Lustbader's The Ninja is that he was an exceptionally horny teenager (but who wasn't).One would think that with a book titled The Ninja that the pages would be a blood-spattered mess right out of some John Woo spectacle.
Rather than just do a blurb, let me paste some points from a personal analysis I did of the story.OVERALL FEELING: Excellent understanding of the Eastern life and culture; great pacing; lots of intricate weaving of plotSYNOPSIS: Nicholas Linnear (notice the last name; straight as an arrow) is at a crossroads in his life; he has just left his job and met a younger woman with some psychological problems.
This book right here is not for anyone born after 1975. It's wrong in so many ways, it's 1980s through and through from Reagan America to our obsession with everything Japan. Lustbader took that Shogun/Bushido/Ninja obsession and ran with it on this Nicholas Linnear series and some of the other Asian based series that he wrote during this fertile period. Having said all that, I enjoyed this book.
I remember my older brother bought The Ninja by Eric Van Lustbader in the mid ‘80s and I pestered him to let me have it.
When it was written, international travel was nowhere near as accessible and this added to the glamour of the book for the reader.
Nearly all of Van Lustbader’s books of that period such as Shan, Jian and Blackheart followed the pattern of having two interlinked stories from different time periods where Lustbader brought the reader back and forth between the two.
And so has Death Here is the origin of Nicholas Linnear, half English, Half Oriental, who is about to enter a terrifying world of merciless assassins bound by the blackest codes of honour and skilled in the deadliest martial arts.Caught between East and West, a past he can't escape and a destiny he can't avoid, he is trapped in a web of old lust and present passions that will converge on a terrifying moment of revelation and revenge...Early this year I made the decision that I would try to re-visit some older books that I've enjoyed in the past.
Definitely one of my all-time favorites and a must re-read every couple of years, even though I've pretty much memorized the key scenes by now (both the flawless action sequences and the original sex scenes).
Even though I wasn't as charmed by the mystical, magical, ninja shenanigans as I used to be as a kid, the fights still read like a fine painting or a flowing piece of music.
The writing itself might have gone off on random tangents at times and the dialogue was a little disjointed here and there (felt like the characters were talking to themselves more than to each other) but overall, I can't fault this book too much.In fact, I must applaud it for giving me one of my most favorite book anti-heroes of all times.
(Well, page 17, in fact, but it's the first page of the first book, after a three page prologue.)"On the way in, in the cab, his mind had been empty, his thoughts like ashes swirled in the dregs of last night's coffee."Oh, they did, did they?
"That upset him" or "He found that curious." Because, you know, that's why you care about characters: Because the author tells you stuff like "He missed his daughters." That way, you'll really feel it when they're murdered for no reason other than no one's been murdered for a while.You think, "Well, maybe he's going after some kind of poetic/aural effect, ashes swirling in coffee aside." (I think.
I'm still no authority, but I have a much clearer picture not only of Martial Arts but also the Asian background experience with it.When the book begins, Nicholas Linnear is about to quit his job and completely give up the life he had made for himself in this country.
He is aware of a continuing conflict inside himself in trying to combine two very different ways of not only living but also thinking.Nick's father was instrumental in helping to rebuild Japan after World War II.
I'd recommend this book to people who enjoy reading about vastly different cultures along with interesting historical references to Japan's involvement in World War II.
I wanted to like this book. It has some of the goofy trashiness of an 1980s ninja movie -- sword battles, wall climbing, hypnotism, throwing stars, all that good stuff.Unfortunately for a book about ninjas it is overwritten and takes itself way too seriously. There's an overabundance of back story for the main character and there are too many unnecessary characters. It takes the focus from the sweet ninja action I want from a book titled "The Ninja." A good editor could easily chop 25% out of the book and lose nothing.
I read a lot of Van Lustbader's books as a teenager. Always a little shiver of "whoa, I don't think I should be reading this at my age". Sigh, that innocence is long gone.
With the pain of a broken relationship with a sexually insatiable lover blighting his life, and a conflict with the "black" side of ninjutsu which he has tried to leave in his past, Linnear has come to live in the US and taken a Western lover.
As the events spiral closer in towards Linnear and his difficult relationship with the police investigator mutates into friendship, he is forced reluctantly to the realisation that his conflict has come back to pursue him, and he must take up the sword again.This is some of the most graceful and lyrical writing that I have ever encountered; reading "The Ninja" is like entering a dream.
The first time i read it as an ebook during my office hours and i really had to skip a lot of pages fearing someone might mis-interpret the sensual descriptions :( In the process i also missed out on huge chunks of the story, losing the plot totally by the end of it all.
Hence the re-read.My views this time around are totally confused, initially i liked the book, say for the first 100 pages or so.
Also the sensual descriptions of the love-making between the lady and the ninja is beautifully done, or so i felt then!
I'm probably giving this book a higher rating than it deserves, because I'm remembering it from when I read it as a teenager. It's a cheesy, blood-splattered "Oriental" (I deliberately use the pejorative term) novel of dubious verisimilitude with steamy but pointless sex scenes. It was written when the ninja craze was just beginning in the U.S. In short, it's mindless pulp entertainment with not much of a plot, but I still have fond memories of it.
Το έψαχνα πάνω από μια δεκαετία μιας και πλέον δεν υπάρχει, για να το βρω τυχαία μια μέρα όταν το βλέμμα μου έπεσε πάνω του. Ένα φανταστικό βιβλίο, όχι μόνο για τη μυθοπλασία και την ιστορία του, αλλά για την ποιότητα απόδοσης της πραγματικότητας της ανατολικής σκέψης, του γιαπωνέζικου τρόπου ζωής και του απόκρυφου κόσμου της. Ένα αριστούργημα πραγματικά!! Διαβάζοντας το πλέον θεωρώ οτι ο χρόνος και η στιγμή που το βρήκα δεν ήταν τελικά τόσο τυχαίος!
I first read this book in the early 80 when it came out and I loved it then.Got it reduced price on kindle I had wanted to re read it and have thoroughly enjoyed it again the second time round. but it does mean I will have to get the rest of the series now......
Always sketchy rating something that I really liked 25 years ago - would I like it as much now? Well, you can't re-read everything. I remember these books as being cracking thrillers with insights into Japanese culture - oh, and plenty of hot sex. Very enjoyable.
That said, I did enjoy the book enough to want to travel down memory lane again and read one or two more Lustbader novels that I recall enjoying in my youth.
(I am currently reading "Shibumi" by Trevanian - - another book from my youth I recall reading just before reading "The Ninja" - - and, so far, it seems to be holding up despite the passage of time).
I may give "The Miko" a go next.FINAL NOTE: If you do decide to read "The Ninja", please be aware that the sex scenes are quite graphic - - borderline pornographic, in my opinion.
I was first introduced to Eric Lustbader's work in the mid 90's, reading Jian, then White Ninja, and then finding a copy of The Ninja.When I first read White Ninja, then The Ninja, something didn't quite 'sit right' with me, which it's taken me 20 years and a re-reading to finally put my finger on.Nicholas Linnear is a dick.An overly-intellectualizing, pretentious jackass, who, rather than having normal conversations with Yukio and Justine, just preaches and sermonizes to them.
Nicholas Linnear, Jake Maroc, Michael Doss, Jason Bourne; All the same character (and what Lustbader has done to Jason Bourne, is a travesty) But there _are_ moments of subtlety in the writing.
Nicholas Linnear is a master ninja, the son of a Chinese mother and British father.
The story jumps around too much, plus there is a big backstory right in the middle of the first 100 pages, which interfered with the flow.
Heck, all the jumping from one scene to another interfered with the flow.
The only action is in the bedroom with Nick and Justine.
Justine’s moods pop up every few pages until Nick takes her to bed.
The book is 526-pages, so figure the reader has a long way to go before it reaches a climax.
Re-reading this, having previously read it over 20 years ago and was delighted to find that it has certainly stood the test of time. This is part detective fiction, part martial arts thriller and part life story of the central character. The story alternates between the present and the past, starting in the immediate post war years in Japan going through to the early 1960’s. The flash backs are there to expand on the life of Nicholas Linnear as he grows up learning martial arts and becoming abl
This is part detective fiction, part martial arts thriller and part life story of the central character.
The story alternates between the present and the past, starting in the immediate post war years in Japan going through to the early 1960’s.
The flash backs are there to expand on the life of Nicholas Linnear as he grows up learning martial arts and becoming able to understand the oriental way of life and thought process.
The present day half features a series of violent murders two of which are friends of Nicholas.
Balanced against this the detailed description of the history and background of many aspects of martial arts.
Although I received it for free, that in no way impacts my opinions within this review."Totally absorbing...as gripping a tale of hatred and revenge as you will read...It is superb."NEWS RECORDThis is the story of Nicholas Linnear, half-Caucasian, half-Oriental, a man caught between East and West, between the sexual passions of a woman he can't forget and the one he can't control and between a past he can't escape and a destiny he can't avoid.
The story of half American and half Oriental...trained in the art of Ninjutsu. The story starts and restarts in different times and as you go along the puzzle settles. Old story of one adept being jealous of another and revenge because of many unsettled issues. Not a clear ending which makes one think there is a book two? Towards the end the book is getting clouded and philosophical which makes for difficult reading. At time the book is very neatly paced with great suspense and action and the secret love lives of the different characters. I liked reading it.
Can't bring myself to write a full review just yet - maybe I was expecting something different but I was very disappointed in both this and the sequel (yes, more fool me for reading them both, I blame a compulsive nature) - it just made for a mix of long, tedious prose and uncomfortable sexual scenes. Not for me.
The first and most intriguing of the series I've read to date..but the magic continues in the following novels as well. I would highly recommend this novel to anyone wanting an outstanding treatment of the Shadow Warriors, the Shinobi, the Ninja...Eric has done a masterful job of putting the visions to paper.
Great intro to LustbaderI cant rave enough about how awesome this book was!! Definetly cant wait to dive into the rest of the series!! The fight scenes were amazing, the overall story was amazing, learned tons and was entertained from cover to cover!
The first and best of the series, first published in 1980. I had bought the hardcover and read it then, twice. Decided to reread as it had been 20 years since the last time. Always interesting to look at a book after years: this one stands the test of time very well.
526 pages
yet another book read while incarcerated in the Bergen County Jail. why did I read it? because it was there.
On tämä kyllä niin kasaria hyvässä että pahassa. Kesti kyllä toisenkin lukukerran.
