https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42407.Babar_the_King
Celestville has just been built and every elephant has a home of their own.
The young elephants start school with the Old Lady and her lessons are never dull.
The elephants too old for school choose a profession.
In Celestville Elephants work all morning and do what they want in the afternoon, sounds like a good arrangement.
As always there are lots of wonderful detailed illustrations and action packed pages, a house catches fire, a monkey mistakes a venomous snake for a stick, and a dream sequence where Hieronymus Bosch style creatures represent qualities such anger, ignorance or sloth, highly imaginative and fun.
Originally published in 1933, this third Babar book picks up just where its predecessor,  The Travels of Babar , left off, as Babar, Celeste and the Old Lady adjust to being back in the land of the elephants. When all of the many goods he purchased on his recent travels arrive by special dromedary delivery, Babar puts his grand plan into motion, proposing that the elephants build their own city, to be named Celesteville after their queen. All goes according to plan, and soon the pachyderm metrop
) will be incensed at the story here, in which Babar, with the Old Lady by his side, brings "civilization" to the elephants, in the form of urban development.
Did he mean these books to be a glorification of France's colonization of Africa, or as a gentle parody (as Adam Gopnick has argued) of it?
I have no answers, but the parallel between France and Africa in the early twentieth century, and the humans and elephants in these stories, seems fairly clear.
This story book covers the every day life that leads to a big celebration where the Old Lady is bitten by a snake and then nearly dies.
Babar is distraught over all the misfortune and has a bad dream.
In the dream, he sees elephant birds flying in a flock.
The story ends with Babar and his elephants once again happy in Celesteville.
It doesn't twirl like a merry-go-round in smooth fashion like many stories.
In fact, in this Babar book, the writer even got the merry-go-round pictured wrong.
It is in fact really a carousel and the elephants who built it should have known that ;)
When I was little, I taught my stuffed babar to read with flashcards. He was an excellent student.
Mais um livro que o meu filho mais novo trouxe da biblioteca da escola e que lhe li. Achei uma história longa demais para uma criança de 5 anos e ele perdeu um bocado o interesse
I loved Babar as a child, but the books seem to mystify a lot of modern readers.
The illustrations are the sort I most loved in my childhood, with lots of background detail in which to get lost: far-away hippos in various stages of submersion, tiny snails crawling on a tin can, packages from shopping labeled "hats" and "records." I adore the statues of elephants in Grecian costumes and the little gilded elephants adorning the proscenium.
Babar laments that they have tainted an otherwise wonderful day, but muses that that's how life is.Recommended for children whose reading level and curiosity surpass their age.
Children far and wide have enjoyed the story of Babar the little elephant and Babar the King is no exception.
Jean De Brunhoff's Babar the King depicts a main character as a likable, cultured ruler of Celesteville who also just happens to be an elephant.
The author reveals Babar and his elephant friends as they create the wonderful city Babar rules.
Hats off to Jean De Brunhoff for authoring the book and illustrating this tale too.
This book has its frightening twist as Babar's dear friend has a run in with a snake, but the story in all is a merry as the Merry-Go-Round and constant celebrations in the city.
Mom used to watch Babar cartoons on HBO as a child, but she is having a hard time getting into the spirit of the books. Last night while we were reading this, when it mentioned that someone played the violin and Barbar played the trumpet, she said "Yeah, 'cause elephants HAVE FINGERS."They also don't talk or wear clothes, but let's try to use our imagination here.
Y'all still read Babar? I haven't since I read Ariel Dorfman's at critique in The Emperor's Old Clothes in mid-1980s. Does it still appeal? It worked for me at age 4 through 6.
Ages: 5 - 9Cleanliness: Babar has a bad dream and there are images of scary/funny looking monsters.**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
I loved this book series and it's anthropomorphic characters and sweet illustrations as a child.
This is a great kids book and takes children into Celesteville, a kingdom ruled by Babar. This is just one of the many adventures the author has created.
What a great classic
Babar the King of the Elephants decides to create a city by a river.
Everyone is happy till the Old Lady gets bit by a snake and Cornelius' house burns down.
King Babar is worried till he dreams give his the answers.
The moral of the story is that everyone has misfortunes from time to time, but if you are not discouraged, and work hard, you can be happy.Great moral to get at, the fact that the elephants made a beautiful city is fun and showing all of them with jobs before play time is also good.
To read these books to a child circa the mid-2010s is to get past their eerie similarity with Leopoldville in the atrocity that was the Belgian Congo, to remember that Laurent de Brunhoff changed many of his drawings after realizing how insensitive they were, and to view them as also mocking of French sensibilities of the 1920s.
I am going to add ONE more item for this book to atone for: its sidelining of the city's namesake, Queen Celeste.
As my child put it, "Celeste didn't get to decide about building the city, or where to build it, but she's okay with their choices." Read it, yes, but annotate the hell out it.
I think this is the third book overall in the Babar series and it's my least favorite of the early books.
My little one was not very attentive through this one as it's not as accessible or maybe a little too wordy for him.
Maybe suitable for someone a little older than him.
I read this one as a kid myself but this time I read it in the Babar Anniversary Book which houses six Babar books in all (possibly the first six in the series).
I just love Babar I really do despite him marrying his second cousin, the colonialism and the other political aspects running rampant throughout this series.
I think it a safe bet that this might be the oldest memory in my Year of Nostalgic Re-reads.
Not the oldest book, but this takes me back to maybe eight years old.
I came across it on openlibrary.org and remembered it clearly.
We never read any of the Babar stories to our children, so it's been nearly 45 years.
I remember loving the illustrations, but being confused at the curious tense, and the references and names (translated from French and written in the 1930s).I couldn't find an ebook of The Story of Babar, but openlibrary did have this third book.
Continuing my rereading of the Babar series, again I find that each turn of a page brings me to another image unforgotten from nearly a half century past.I started on this because of a New Yorker article talking about how Babar is a thinly veiled celebration of civilization. I don't see this as a bad thing, any more than I see it as a bad thing that The Cat in the Hat is a celebration of flights of wacky chaos. Life has a lot of stuff in it.Babar has tremendous charm and makes a lasting impression.
Babar is pathetic to me, with his utopian dreams for elephants, based on European capitalism. Elephants, shake off your oppressor, and return to the matriarchal society that had been your lot. Apparently the bulls are meant to live away from the society so that they don't keep coming up with stupid plans about walking on their hind legs and wearing business suits.
I am basing the three stars on the fact that I read this when I was a kid and remember the elephants chasing the demons. Very interesting illustration. Reminds me of the illustration of the demons in "The Phantom Tollbooth."
One of my favourite books from my childhood.
Babar is one of my childhood favorites, however when I read it as a parent, it seems long, boring and at times a smidge above Cooper's head. We will continue with the series, however!
The Babar stories were some of my favorites as a kid.
To read with my baby Aubrey: I hope he likes the whimsey as much as I did!
Loved Babar when I was a kic, when my kids were kids, and now that my grandkids are kids. Too bad there isn't a way to say that I've read it more times than I can count!
Nostalgia alone gives all of the Babar books five stars.
Wonderful series Babar!
Read to the kids tonight, forgot how delightfully weird, sweet and funny the original Babar titles were (the newer ones can't recapture the magic). Would read on my own.
What I like most about this book is that it does not have the same all-present racial hierarchical references.
