https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302998.The_Buddha_of_Suburbia
But Bromley doesn't sound too different: Karim describes it in the book as being a place ‘of which it was said that when people drowned they saw not their lives but their double-glazing flashing before them’.This suburban experience is one of the points of the novel, which among other things is a gentle examination of English class relations, particularly as they intersect with race – Karim's father is an Indian immigrant, and the casual racism of the 1970s is hovering there in the background.
3 Things about The Buddha of Suburbia:(1) i read this one because of my fondness for the movie My Beautiful Laundrette, which was written by this author.
this is maybe the only other time i've read of such a protagonist in contemporary literary fiction (the other being The Mysteries of Pittsburgh).
beyond sexuality, Karim tries to be open-minded and even-handed; he often fails utterly and holds things against people that he knows he shouldn't.
it was a nice experience to read all about a character who showed me a way of looking at myself.(3) i should also mention that Karim is a Class A Jerkoff.
This book was a lot of fun.
It has that wryly English sense of humour.
Through Karim, muddling through playing Mowgli in the Jungle Book, his attachment to his father's new girlfriend, guilt about his mother, his stepbrother's move from mediocre musician to punk icon, the book captures a certain time period in England, and mixes in second-generation immigrant issues.
And a lot of sex.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Very unique story with a fresh perspective on the London suburbs of the 1970s.
The Immigrant Tale is turned on its head as the main protagonist is an inspiration to anyone ashamed of their sexuality or even too cautious of it.
The blind cannot lead the blind, Karim knows this intuitively so he just shoots the shit; our main man is a Don Juan of a kind, with various sexual experiences under his belt which bathes the reader with an uncommon--for literature--enthusiasm for his escapades.
Sexual education we want for Karim, and he does not disappoint.
It didn’t matter that the said Frenchman couldn’t actually play the piano, his Frenchness gave him all the credibility he needed.We find a similar situation in the Buddha of Suburbia where Karim’s father, Muslim raised according to very English ideals, all of a sudden decides to become a yoga, meditation, all the New Age mumbo jumbo guru and rises to fame in the suburbs of London, where his dark skin serves for all the credentials he might need.Karim, his mixed-race, second generation immigrant son doesn’t really suffer from an identity crisis until people tell him to and try to tell him to be this or that.
This is a really neat and actually funny British Asian novel.
It's not the best thing since sliced armadilloes but it lies around pleasantly in my memory as a number of other better novels don't.
For some reason the relationship between this gal Jamilla and the hapless goon who gets foisted on her in a hideous arranged marriage kind of way has remained with me almost like I met them once.
Jamilla is one of the coolest women ever.
Or maybe just one of the most bad tempered.
There are lots of worse things to do with your time.
This book taught me that literature can be both incredibly entertaining and soul-piercingly deep.
لو كان هناك ما دون النجمة لحصل عليها هذا الكتاب.كرهته كثيرا ً، مؤذي لقارئه، حصلت عليه لأنه كان أحد 1001 كتاب التي كان ينصح بيتر بوكسال بقراءتها قبل أن نموت، يبدو أنني أخطأت ولم انتبه إلى ملحق في نهاية الكتاب اسمه كتب لا تقرأها حتى لا تموت، سيتصدرها هذا الكتاب.
I've been reading Kureishi backwards, starting with Intimacy, then Something to Tell You, and now his first novel, The Buddha of Suburbia.
Intimacy was a traumatic read for me; it was Kureishi's barely fictionalized account of walking out on his partner and his two young sons and it was unapologetic.
Intimacy was infuriating, but beautifully written, and it made me want to find out what makes Kureishi tick.
Intimacy was very spare, the "action" taking place in just one day, and most of the action was psychological.
He's always the observer, asking questions, making astute perceptions, and his detachment and humor make him bold and confident.
"I wanted to live always this intensely: mysticism, alcohol, sexual promise, clever people and drugs." You care despite or because his ambition is a teenage cliche (especially from the days before university tuition fees; as one of the last cohort who didn't have to pay, I remember the sudden seriousness of the younger ones who, to our eyes, were doing too much work too early and didn't seem to get - our old-fashioned idea of - what being a student was about).I suppose there are one or two scenes that don't quite work, and one or two characters who could have been better drawn, yet it barely seems to matter.
It's not like Karim has an entirely easy time, but, as I also keep thinking when I flick through the graphic novel Nelson (which I can't yet bring myself to actually read), in this book is a life I would like to have lived.
What can you do" (29)?Karim continues to wonder about the differences between what Eva calls "interesting" and "ugly people" later in the text after his parents split."When Eva had gone and I lay for the first time in the same house as Charlie and Eva and my father, I thought about the difference between interesting people and the nice people.
The novel is very adult and debates the idea of how to identify with who you are based on other people's interpretation of you.I'd recommend it for people who are more interested in reading about deep characters than they are a storyline or an interesting, exciting plot.

Karim is a mixed race teenager, son to a Indian father who is working as a dull bureaucrat, and an English mother and living in the South London suburbs.
Karim in the meantime is discovering new social classes that he had never come across in his previous life in the suburbs, there is Pkye a upper class theatre director who gives him his first chance.
Karim is neither English nor Indian and this makes it a pointed satire of the time, as he fits in neither camp.
خاجة جميلة بديعة، في الغالب المرحلة الجاية هجيب كل اعمال حنيف قرشيرغم الخدع السحرية في البداية، لكن بعد كدا بتتحول لرواية اجتماعية انجليزية حديثة عادية عن الصراع الطبقي والاجتماعى، لكن مع ذلك كنت مسحور جدا بالدراما الاجتماعية على غير العادة، مكنش ممكن اتخيل انى ممكن اقرا رواية واقعية بالسهولة والانسايبة دىفيه في الخلفية اشباح لمدعى النبوة والآلهه، ولديفيد بوي، وللحركات اليسارية السرية الجو دا كان اجمل حاجة في الرواية
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٤النوستالجيا مع المراهقة وانفتاحات الجنس والنفس.. مزيج ساحر
One of the best and funniest coming of age stories I have ever read
The second play Karim is in is highly successful and runs in New York for a month, where he hangs around with Charlie until one night when he watches Charlie in a sub sex role with a dominatrix and realizes that he doesn't care for Charlie anymore.
Returning to London, it seems different to Charlie and he realizes it is him that's different.The story describes not only differences between London and New York, but also class differences between groups in London (and the suburbs).The book was made into a stageplay by Kureishi, which was produced at the time of a hate-crime in Britain against a young man, Stephen Lawrence, and this created a lot of critical response to the play (and the book).
To my knowledge it's the only time a novel has ever been set in Beckenham - in fact, it's probably the only time a novel has even mentioned Beckenham in passing.So I very much enjoyed the opening chapters of the book, narrated by the teenaged Karim and telling of his father who becomes the 'Buddha of Suburbia'.
But I was disappointed to see the territory of my childhood - Beckenham, Penge, Chislehurst and the rest of it - so swiftly abandoned.While the later parts of the book were sometimes entertaining, I wasn't really sure where the story was going.
I think there's plenty to say about suburbia and I really liked what Kureishi was saying - it felt fresh and interesting.
I taman kada je Karim postao tinejdžer i počeo da otkriva čari (uni) seksa njegov ćale je odlučio da ga osramoti.
Postao je „Buda iz predgrađa“.
Dosadni državni službenik je video da mnogo više love leži u prodaji magle pripadnicima srednje klase koja je pod uticajem Džordža Harisona počela da otkriva Indiju i sav taj new age misticizam.
A tu je i nešto sasvim novo što neki nazivaju konceptualnom umetnošću.„Buda iz predgrađa“ je duhovita i pitko napisana knjiga o odrastanju, sazrevanju, otkrivanju sebe i drugih.
Od ove knjige nemojte očekivati mnogo više od sasvim pristojnog i inteligentno napisanog štiva.
I thought that it was so well written that it probably deserved a 4 star rating, but, seeing as I liked it but didn't love it (probably because I didn't like or feel any sympathy for anyone in the novel (apart from perhaps Karim's long suffering mother).
So, in the end I can't give it a full 4 stars.
A coming-of-age story?
A bit.
But it isn't going anywhere.
The title is a bit misleading.
Speaking of his Indian functionnaire pseudo-guru father, the narrator sums it up ..."I wondered if he were going to con them and sit there for an hour in silence (perhaps just popping out one mystical phrase such as, 'Dried excrement sits on the pigeon's head') before putting his car coat on and tramping off back to his wife, having brought the Chrislehurst bourgeoisie to an exquisite understanding if their inner emptiness." LOL, but this is not really what the book is about either.
Karim Amirs indiske far träffar en ny kvinna, familjelivet vänds upp och ner och Karims värld med.
Boken ger inblick i "the swinging London" (som det står på baksidan), samtidigt är det en uppväxtskildring och en relationsroman.
Det är också raskonflikter, kulturkrockar, feminism, arbetslösheten som finns med i bilden.
Det är snarare bokens svagaste punkt, för att det är lite väl rörigt ibland.Det är karaktärerna (min favorit är Karims barndoms vännina Jamila) och språket som jag älskar.
Boken har sina brister men jag vill ge den en femma för att det var en ren njutning att läsa.
Besides the fact that reading Kureishi's novels are as tasty as drinking ice-tea with a splash of rum on a hot day this wasn't a story that made any kind of impact on me the way for example his "The Body" did. First half of the book was remotely interesting and actually had something to do with 'the buddha of suburbia' subject but afterwards story just dissolve into ramblings of a young, lost and confused bisexual kid. It was predictable and unfortunately boring.
I'm being generous here. This is only for the portion that I've read, which is most of it. But I just didn't like this book. It was disgusting in its sexually graphic nature, and so depressing! I hope it gets better (not that I'll be reading it!) if I end up having to do an essay on it then maybe I'll read it but I just don't see it happening. Sorry Kureshi.
Racy, although no Anais Nin, witty and thoroughly absorbing I'd have to recommend this book. Although, after while the impetus does get a bit lost...
Great book; witty, amusing, silly, surprising, touching. A tale of sexual experimentation, the quest for identity, told with wry humour, and understanding.
I am disgusted by the content in this book. The “f” word is repeated so many times, it’s distressing! The use of sex, the descriptions, and the crude words used for body parts is . . . Let’s just say, this book makes me feel depressed, funny (in a bad way), and makes me want to punch the main character in the face. He’s so stupid and SUCH an immature kid! I had to read this for school and no one I knew really liked it—AT ALL. This is actually more bothersome than “There There”.
“Someone to whom jokes are never told soon contracts enthusiasm deficiency.”In man respects this is a coming of age novel set mainly in 1970's London against a background of the emergence of Punk Rock and political turmoil leading to the rise to ascendancy of Margaret Thatcher.
The ''Buddha'' of the title is Haroon, father of Karim, the narrator, who works as a mundane Government bureaucrat until he deserts his British wife, Margaret, and moves in with socially climbing Eva giving out advice in the evening like some mystic guru to largely other bored Londoners.
This is the story of Jamila, a liberated, sexually free and politically radical British-born Muslim woman and Changez, the Indian groom chosen for her by her father.
On an additional hand, it's a keen and merciless and illuminating and necessary look inside the world of immigrants and the social barriers that confine and confound human society, and an interesting exploration of people and cultures and generations on the brink/in the messy aftermath of change, and on the fourth or fifth hand, the grotty, sordid, me-first, hopeless and doomed view of human relations is almost dystopian--why bother getting informed about the mechanics?
The descriptions of and ponderings about sex are enough to make me think no one should really ever have any again, ever, and definitely don't look to this book to make you dream of living in or really ever visiting London or its surrounding areas.
I've been putting this off for nearly 20 years, and finally, I am underwhelmed.
It's lightly entertaining, but is hardly as wild and hilarious as the praise on the cover would make out.
I think I laughed at page 278.
It's a novel about people doing things, and there's not much of a subtext, or a story, really.
Stuff just happens, none of it matters.
Maybe it was more wonderful back in the 90s, when sexuality and multiculturalism were still academic novelties.
Maybe it's still wild and wonderful if you're a Guardian reader.Tick the box and move on.
