https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/841628.The_Hitchhiker_s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy
The universe of h2g2 is a microcosmic representation of our own society's bureaucratic fallacies, beginning with the demolition of one man's house and working its way up to the poignant irony that Earth is a computer built to find the Ultimate Question to Life, the Universe, and Everything.The fact that the entire series is about the search for the question, and not the answer, which the book happily reveals to all of us, is a timeless metaphor for human existence.
Life, the Universe, and Everything lives up to its name by positing interesting "facts" about the nature of the universe, physics, time travel, and sofas.
Κάπου εδώ συνειδητοποιώ ότι δεν έχω τι άλλο να γράψω.Διαβάζοντας τα βιβλία,και αφού μου έβγαλαν έντονα αυτό το montypython-ικό feeling,είπα να ψάξω αν υπάρχει μια σύνδεση.Guess what,υπάρχουν κριτικές των ΘΕΩΝ και σας τις παραθέτω,γιατί είναι-προφανώς-πολύ καλύτερες απ’ τις δικές μου.“Much funnier than everything John Cleese has written.”Terry Jones“Really entertaining and fun”.
John Cleese“I know for a fact that John Cleese hasn’t read it”.Graham Chapman“Who is John Cleese?”Eric Idle (Η απάντηση είναι "42",dear)“Really entertaining and fun”.Michael Palin.Fun fact: Αν μετρήσετε τον αριθμό των λέξεων (μαζί με τα ονόματα) θα δείτε ότι βγαίνει 42.Τελικά,είναι η απάντηση για τα πάντα.Χμμ…Υ.Γ.Sir,so long and thanks for all the fish.
When I asked myself which book in the "hitchhiker"-series should go on my "favorites" shelf, there could be only one.
It had to be a collection - the individual books are brilliant, but who in their right mind would think to themselves "I think I'll re-read 'Life, the Universe and Everything' today", skipping the first two parts?
How Adams' himself felt about his books is of course interesting and others opinions also, but not for this decision really.
The man was a genius taken far too soon from us and I would gladly read his shopping list .
It's quite fortunate I did because I think the best way to experience Adam's mad world is to read it as one book.The book is full of the cleverest, funniest nonsense I have ever come across, so sharp it cuts itself into funnier, cleverer, more ridiculous nonsense still.The first time I read it I found almost constantly giggling like a maniac at words on paper.
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy trilogy is a prime example of my favorite kind of book; the kind you read for its contents, not for its resolution.
Forget the Hitchhikers guide to the Galaxy, I would gladly compromise with a guide to the mind of Douglas Adams!
The universal truths that it holds are a bit unnerving and sometimes make one wonder if things ever change or just go around in circles.
All in all I have no more words to describe how wonderful this book is, how I would have loved to have met Douglas Adams and how in awe I am off anyone who has the guts to allow his imagination to run wild and is not afraid to put it in paper!
I've read this series six times.
I cannot (ever) remember any of it, except random character names.
So I read it again.
And I enjoy it every time--and it all flows away.
If I were on a desert island with only one book series, I'd take this because I know I'd always be entertained anew.My oldest just read it for the first time and giggled aloud the entire time.
He actually remembers parts of it, though--evidence of evolution, I guess.
Assuming, of course, that remembering Douglas Adams enhances survival and reproductive chances.
After all I did fairly well, and I...wait.
well, I did lose that from time to time but it didn't matter, I picked it up again pretty easily.I really wonder how Douglas Adams mind ticked on a daily basis to come up with this extraordinary four parter?
Did he partake in a little LSD one wonders.
I tried to read this after seeing the 2005 movie.
People had always talked about how funny it was, and made references to it, so I figured the time had come to familiarize myself with it.
I have admit, I didn't even actually read half of it, I hated it so much.
Reading this book reminded me of watching "My dinner with Andre," in that it was soaked in self-consciousness.
I couldn't stop being aware of the writing, how full of himself the writer seemed, how smart and funny he thought he was.
The movie, however, was OK, and doesn't last as long as reading the book.
This is one of the best science-fiction novels I've ever read, and one of the funniest too. It is also one that I could read over and over again.
It is based on the radio plays and TV series of the same name/s.Arthur Dent is having a bad day - just after his house is demolished to make way for a bypass, the Vogon fleet arrive to demolish the earth, to make way for a hyperspace bypass.
While I haven’t listened to the original radio plays, I have fond memories of watching the T.V. series as Arthur Dent (a quintessential Englishman) travels through time and space with Ford Prefect (a researcher for the guide, from a system near Betelgeuse), Ford’s half-cousin Zaphod Beeblebrox (a super cool guy with two heads and three arms), Trillian (from earth) and Marvin the pathologically depressed robot.
Ok, so this is 4 books in an anthology.
The first book is the original hitchhikers guide and is fabulous.
A work of real originality, humour, wit and acute satirical observation.
No question about this being a 5 star book.
In the third book this impression is stronger, and there are less good jokes.
The fourth and final book in the anthology is really bad.
No real humour, very short, the characters are inconsistent and heavily reliant on previous works to give them any depth at all.
In total, 3 stars seems fair, largely due to the brilliance of the first book.
It's hard to better this whether as a piece of light sci fi or as a sustainedly funny book. I've returned and found something new each time I have re-read it (three times) and expect to do so again at some future stage. It's a pity that unlike the BBC radio and TV adaptations, the film version was so banal (to me anyway). Not a dull word in it and I'm still trying to work out the anagram of Slartibartfirst.
I know that these are considered classics of the genre, and have been massively influential on two decades of genre writing and TV. Yet try as I might when I read them, I just couldn't see why. Creative, yes, imaginative, yes, and occasionally very sharp. But the characters just seemed flat to me, and I couldn't understand why anyone who wasn't a fourteen year old boy would find this more than sporadically amusing.
I picked this up because I was in mood for some comedy in space but sadly I couldn't bring myself to finish the whole series despite my love for Doglas Adam...i love the way he writes. There are four parts to this book and I dropped by the second part. While I found each character unique, I hated how all of them seem lost. Things happen to them as oppose to them making things happen. Maybe I will pick this up again in future but for now it just put me to sleep several times.
Arthur Dent's story is one that is clever, witty and fun. Although this book was quite dense at some sections, it was an overall enjoyable read!
A much younger me loved these books. Silly, English fun! Zaphod Beeblebrox!!!
I last read Hitchhiker's when I was 13, 28 years ago (man that makes me feel old) and thought that buying this would be a nice trip down Memory Lane.
Yes and no...the first two books are spectacular but I found that the further I went, the more tedious it got.
By book four, I was ready to throw the towel in.
Reading during my lunch break, I found myself nodding off a few times which is not the best response to a book.
Anyway, it was good to go down Memory Lane, even if it wasn't quite paved with the gold that I remember.
How does one even begin to describe such a book?
I can now fully admit that I do regret not having had this book in my life earlier.
I've been reading it since February, and I just...wow.
Right now it feels like I just lost a dear old friend.I actually rarely say this for a book, but the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a book that I'll actually miss reading.So long, and thanks for all the humor, the feels, and the casual yet very quotable wisdoms that are scattered at every corner of this book.
I love it so much. Very sad that it's over, but very excited to read the fifth one.More thorough review coming soon.
It was an incredible read.One of the first things that struck me is just how deliciously witty and sarcastic this is, on every level.
The unforgettable characters are greatly developed with their own unique oddities, especially robots you'd assume shouldn't have personalities (looking at you, Marvin).
They're all so very British, even the characters from other planets who've never even heard of Britain.
It is, really, a writer's dream to read.
Perhaps it's a good thing I waited a while to read it, because otherwise it would have ruined many of the following books I'd have read in comparison.
The story takes off and you'd think you know where this is going.
It continues that way and you find yourself wondering how you got here from the beginning of this book.
It made me laugh and read short pieces out load to someone, just to share it with another person.---Second book was like a long scene where a lot of things happen but not really anything.
It changed the pace all together and felt like a side-story to the main mission I have been taken through the previous books.
Luckily the book was not very long and it still felt good to read it.
There were some other great supporting characters - Marvin the Robot earns the award for the most hilariously depressive character I have ever encountered, and Zaphod Beeblebrox was an absolute nutter and a clear favourite.I smirked and laughed out loud more often than one should whilst reading on public transport, and earned a few odd looks from nearby strangers.I would classify this book as fantasy for the non-fantasty reader and I would recommend it for anyone wanting a dose of hilarity and an escape from reality.I only have one negative about this: I lost my way a bit in the third book - a touch of fantasy fatigue, I suspect.
Adams' dry sense of humour keeps you laughing out loud while the sheer invention involved in the many ridiculous elements of the galaxy is breathtaking.
The excerpts from 'The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy' were particularly hilarious.
My personal favourite of the four was 'The Restaurant at the End of the Universe' but all of them were amazing.
Adam's creation is one of those rare books you wish didn't have to end and stands up well to rereading.
But DON'T PANIC - the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is your trusty guide through this marvellous technicolour romp.
Don't panic! Hitchhiker's Guide is hilarious and random. Most books aren't laugh-out-loud funny. This one definitely is. If you have a certain sense of humor, you'll love it. If you don't get into the book by chapter 3, you may want to look elsewhere for entertaining reading. I really enjoyed the first three books in the series, but the fourth book got too random and weird for me. The movie isn't nearly as good, so if you've seen the movie and have doubts, be sure to give this book a chance. #classroomlibrary
De humor in dit boek is vaak zo absurd maar o zo fijn...:-) Een echt literair experiment als je het mij vraagt ("Zou het mogelijk zijn om een absurde verhaallijn honderden bladzijden vol te houden houden zonder dat de lezer het opgeeft?") Maar jammer... 'k heb het gevoel dat dit boek misschien zelfs gewoon de volle vijf sterren waard geweest was als ik het sneller dan in 3 maanden tijd had kunnen uitlezen...
I really enjoyed rereading this series; it holds up well to the passage of time (there's a description of the Guide at one point that sounds like an e-reader). And it holds up well to the aging of this particular reader (I read the series about 25 years ago). I remember it as being funnier, though I did laugh out loud at a few points. It was definitely worth going back.
A very imaginative and creative setup, the characters of this sci-fi extravaganza are treat to observe. But the fiction is quite average and at places it looses the attention because of vague storytelling and randomness of many events. But the sci-fi fans will find it extremely fun. Others may read few of the chapters before deciding whether they should go for the whole book or not.
*very* English - hilarious, oh-so-random, with witty observations of humans throughout. Recommended for nerds of any type.A lot of the running jokes are introduced by the first book, which seems to be the most timeless. I must admit I enjoyed the fourth book the most, even though it was a vast change of tone, Arthur's love story is just top notch.
I set off on a long voyage and moved to a land far away from everything I have ever known, to begin a life vastly different from anything I have ever begun, and I could only take one book with me, and I knew it had to be this book. That is all. That is my review.
Insane! Extra-mental conception, mind-bending wordplay and allegory; over the mind perspective, mating of deep commentary with outwardly conspicuous absurdity; timeless in more ways than one. Employs all known literary devices (http://quizlet.com/11335/all-literary...). And more.
