https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281326.Private_Lives
There are four characters (two couples), that being Sibyl & Elyot Chase and Amanda & Victor Prynne, unknown to the Chases, the Prynnes are honeymooning at the same hotel, which causes problems to flare up as there is a past love between two of them.
On the first night of their honeymoon, Sibyl had gone into raptures over Elyot, but she did not forget, or let him forget, that she knew he had loved his first wife Amanda madly.
When Amanda and Elyot see each other again, each wants to move out of the hotel before their respective mates knows about the presence of the other couple.
ولكن منذ متي كان الحب بهذا الصخب والصراخ والشجار ؟منذ متي كان الحب بالغيرة والشك والتعب والهرب والتفكير والسهر ؟الحب ليس كذلك ..
والزواج الصحيح السليم بلا شك يختلف تماما عما كان يحدث في هذه الرواية الغريبة  عندنا في مصر مثل شعبي شهير نقول فيه: القط يحب خناقه !!
ولكن الحب بلا مودة وسكن ليس حبا ..
الزواج بلا احترام وهدوء وطمأنينة ليس زواجا ..
تعايش لا يتمناه او يطيقه او يتحمله أحدفي رأيي هي وطليقها لا يصلحا لبعضهما مرة اخريوهي مع زوجها الحالي طبعا لا يصلحا لبعضهماوالطليق وزوجته الحاليه لا يصلحاكلهم لا يصلحوا لبعضهم !!!!كان الارتباط كله خطأ فادح من البدايةعلي الرغم من النهاية المبتورة غير المتوقعة إلا أنني استمتعت كثيرا، كانت تجربة جديدة جيدة مع الأدب الإنجلبزي https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZxpk...
"Love is no use unless it's wise, and kind, and undramatic. Something steady and sweet, to smooth out your nerves when you're tired. Something tremendously cosy; and unflurried by scenes and jealousies. That's what I want, what I've always wanted really."
"Extraordinary how potent cheap music is." Now, kiss me, you poor darling.Though "Blithe Spirit" is surely Coward's best play, "Private Lives" is his most famous, most romantic -- and most produced.
His nothingness, with its saucy flippancy, is Something else.Amanda-Elyot and their new spouses are in their late 20s and early 30s -- as were Coward-Gertie when the play bowed.
Cued by Tallu's success it has since been revived 6 times on Bwy. Back in 1930 one critic pondered if audiences, years hence, would be baffled by the popularity of this "flimsy trifle." Audiences, where Coward is concerned, are ahead of the critics.
And then in act two he hits her again...Now, both me and the woman I was watching the play with were more than a little taken aback by this.
In any other comedy you would be willing and wanting and needing Amanda and Elyot to end up together.
You know, who wants to end up in a Punch and Judy show?After the play was over we were talking about the whole domestic violence theme.
You know, when Amanda says Elyot hit her numerous times and in numerous places, Victor calls him a cad.
After Blithe Spirit, Private Lives is Noël Coward’s most famous play, which packed the house in its 1930 West End run, 1931 Broadway run, and many subsequent revivals, several of which won Tony and Olivier awards. The 1931 film adaptation was a great hit. And I don’t get any of this.I found Private Lives pretty lackluster — despite being so frequently produced: contrived, overblown, and lacking much witty dialogue or message. It doesn’t hold a candle to the less frequently staged but more thought-provoking Design for Living.
Read this + Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf back-to-back and you'll never fall innocently in love again.
“I think very few people are completely normal really, deep down in their private lives.
It all depends on a combination of circumstances.
If all the various cosmic thingummies fuse at the same moment, and the right spark is struck, there’s no knowing what one mightn’t do.”I had quite a lot of fun with Nöel Coward’s Private Lives.
It’s clever, entertaining, charming… and incredibly vulnerable.
It’s fantastic how these rather eccentric characters seem to be everything at the same time.
There’s no space for indifference.Elyot: “It doesn’t suit women to be promiscuous.”Amanda: “It doesn’t suit men for women to be promiscuous.”
Considered his masterpiece, I would rank this one just below  Present Laughter which I find far more entertaining. This one focuses on two mixed up couples, a pair of husbands and wives. Only one husband and one wife from opposite couples has been married already -- to each other. Antics ensue and they're a load of fun.
when i go deeper in reading the old american plays , i make sure that the most romantic comedy movies come from them , at least the general plot . it's a good play , but it's awful characters ! , all this screaming and jealousy and rage and child acting .. Horrible ! that is not love at all .. no one can holding life with all this pressure ! but it's a good play .
I'm gonna rent Anna Chancellor's stage version tomorrow
Another Noel Coward light comedy full of flippant, blaisé, young characters engaged in a rondeau of sexual attraction, witty repartees and a coquettish disdain for social conventions.
One of the play's characters, Elyot, at one time seems to express Coward's credo:"You mustn't be serious, my dear one; it's just what they want.
[...:] All the futile moralists who try to make life unbearable.
Laugh at them.
Laugh at everything, all their sacred shibboleths.
Unfortunately Coward's characters lack the bite for a real fight.
We never get to see any of those moralists, so there is no worthy enemy for Elyot in sight and he certainly never has to suffer for his views.
This really is an awful play.
The wit is purely of the derisive variety, but nothing as sharp as Dorothy Parker came up with on one of her off days.There are four characters, two are "smart", as in "smart set", sophisticated, etc.
The lesser beings must be made into simpletons, just so we are sure to realize how smart the other two are.
They need the other two to display their wit, or what passes for it.
But if there weren't legions of people telling us how terribly witty he was, no one would be reading this play.
What an awesome play! I couldn't put it down and when I had to, I picked it up again at the first opportunity. The dialogue is so well interwoven between the characters and it propels the story forward from start to finish. This is why I like reading plays. The ending caught me off guard and made it all the sweeter.
Betties Books
Some of the funniest dialogue this side of "Alice in Wonderland".
I had no idea what it was about, had never seen a Noel Coward play, and didn't quite understand the humor of the time, but since it was included in the season ticket, I went, with zero expectations.
Now that I've read the text, this is definitely one for which success depends on the strength of the actors and the stage direction.
Seeing the play before reading it made me realize what an excellent job the actors did with the text to make it alive and sparkling.
I enjoyed reading the text so much more for having seen the play!

Reading this reminded me of how much I enjoy reading plays. This was my first Coward, and I was impressed with how delectable his writing and his dialogues are. It's just too bad that I don't live in England to be able to watch these plays with my favorite actors.
I had seen a filmed production and had listened to a recorded radio performance. Now I've read it. Suffice to say it's delightful in any format.
Die of laughter. Best time was when I recently saw the play in Oxfordshire, UK. Seems like all the xharacters and dialogue emerging right out if the book. Greatly Amusing! Must read.
Witty, but aged poorly—particularly the domestic violence. Firecracker premise, though.
https://lyceum.org.uk/whats-on/produc...
About lives that are anything but private, but rather everyone knows too much about everyone, and it’s all funny, somehow.
It's a cleaned up version of many dysfunctional relationships I've witnessed.
Классическая комедия. Очень смешно и очень грустно одновременно.
Most of the banter-like discourse between the characters and childish bickering that ensures constantly in each act makes it hard to not hold a smile when reading it, and even let out an odd giggle or two.One of my favourite scenes is between Amanda and Sibyl, as they discuss them reuniting after divorcing years ago;Amanda: Do you realise that we’re living in sin?Elyot: Not according to the Catholics, Catholics don’t recognise divorce.
72)Although I don’t condone calling women sluts (let alone hitting them) this play is full of ‘dark’ humour like that.
It's a good little moral, and in the end you see that the playwright is trying.
I think it got very annoying with the I love you an I hate you I love you and I hate you over And over, which I can see is the point and the satire behind this, but there are ways to portray that.
Different ways!
That I really wished I read instead.
Well done but not complete, it's a good plot for comedy and it's perfect for the stage, it just needs to be re written I suppose.
I enjoy Coward's writing throughout the play, but am particularly fond of the following stage direction: "At this point in the proceedings [Elyot and Amanda] trip over a piece of carpet, and fall on to the floor, rolling over and over in paroxysms of rage." I laughed for a full minute with that one.
Coward's witty dialogue is quick with a bite.
The play stages very well if you have the right actors for Elyot and Amanda; I saw it within the last few years at Chicago Shakespeare Theatre and it really cracked along.
Noel Coward.
****.This popular play by Coward is almost a preview of his play, “Blithe Spirit,” written ten years later.
In this plot, Sibyl and Elyot are on their honeymoon in France.
Elyot has been married before, but has been divorced for five years.
In the adjoining room are Amanda and Victor, also on their honeymoon.
Turns out that Amanda was Elyot’s first wife.
Their new spouses soon meet each other, too, and then things start to happen.
It seems that former spouses are a pet theme of Coward’s, who manages to wring lots of humor out of the situation.
