https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52137.The_Great_Terror
It is completely incomprehensible to most of us how systematic the nature of evil under Stalin can be.
Why did I have to die, old friend comrade Stalin?
Old comrades, military men, local politicals, intellectuals, and a random smattering of ethnicities and others all gone.
It was an attempt to destroy the old state and create a new one in his image.
Stalin the creator and the great destroyer.
It is still incomprehensible.Of course one of the great ironies of history is that these purges might not even have been necessary to fight Hitler, and in fact may have prolonged the bloody Eastern Front.
I’ve reached the most terrible phase of that terrible part of the nation’s history, the so-called Yezhovchina, named after Nikolai Yezhov, then head of the NKVD, the Soviet security police.
This was not enough for the NKVD, so after a good kicking, he implicated the whole of his old military unit, right up to the commanding officer.
Following this almost the whole of his unit was arrested, from the commanding officer right down to the drivers, wives included.
The said uncle was discovered to have served once as a corporal in the old Imperial Army, and was immediately promoted by the NKVD into a Tsarist general!
Updating his original work "The Great Terror" with a vast amount of new data, Conquest scrupulously details and puts into context the purges themselves: the many players and defendants, the shifting political cross-currents, the rounds of trials and arrests.And he does the same for the many Western observers - intellectuals, writers, journalists, and left activists - who were oblivious to it or actively sought to hush it up, even decades later when there were no longer any shreds of doubt.
This guy's real name is Robert Conquest? My nom de plume is going to be Biceps Wellhung.
The Great Terror is a book of enormous importance because it was the first book on Stalin's purges written by a member of the Anglo-Saxon race employed as a professor at a major university in an Anglo-Saxon country.
However, when Conquest made his case using the methodology accepted in North American and British Commonwealth universities, the historical profession had to finally acknowledge the truth that Stalin had made a huge and savage purge in the 1930s that affected every level of the Soviet communist party.As a pioneering work by an accredited academic, Conquest's book is indeed a great triumph.
Conquest's The Great Terror is the definitive work in English on Stalin's purges and the death of Bolshevism. For readers interested in the ascendency of Stalinism in Russia this is the primary source.
durrrrrrRRR
Rather, the reason the Great Terror was launched in late 1936 seemed to be more related to the approaching war with Germany and Japan, and the subtle feeling on the part of Stalin that he must execute anyone with even the potential of being a fifth columnist.Conquest seems to miss a very important part of the story that Figes and others have stressed.
Or maybe he was looking at the wrong part of the problem - the legal system, as opposed to the penal system.Despite these complaints, this book will probably stand for quite some time as the best English source for Stalin's Great Terror, particularly since Conquest includes transcripts from many of the trials.
Brilliant work, its value underscored by the savage attacks on it by Kremlin apparatchiks. Originally the standard work on the Great Terror, Stalinism was worse than Robert Conquest reported. Hitler lost, and failed to complete the cover-up of Nazi crimes (Sonderaktion 1005.) On the other hand, Stalin won, and didn't die until 1953. Stalin had the opportunity to complete his cover-up. The breadth of Stalin's criminality only began to be understood after 1990. Conquest's work is the place to start.
I remember vividly using this book -- or was it the first edition? -- to refute my friends who refused to believe that evil lurked East of the Brandenburg gate and, especially, in Moscow
This phenomenon becomes all the more toxic, and dangerous, when such individuals rise to national power and manage to create totalitarian regimes ruled by mind-control, deception, lack of individual and collective rights and freedoms, and arbitrary displays of power.Psychopathic, or at least seriously disordered rulers, such as Hitler, Stalin, Mao and Ceausescu teach what happens when (their) pathology spreads to a whole country.
This book traces both Stalin's rise to power within the ranks of the Bolsheviks and, concurrently, the spreading of the totalitarian system like a fatal virus throughout Soviet society (and beyond).The book also exposes the underlying lack of principles even among seemingly ideological rulers like Joseph Stalin.
The case is made, with solid and well sourced evidence, that Stalin basically topped anyone who looked at him sideways, or didn't look at him or whatever.
Osip Mandelstam died in the Gulag in 1938, largely because of a poem he wrote about Stalin, containing the lines: "...the huge laughing cockroaches on his top lip, the glitter of his boot rims.
Ringed with a scum of chicken-necked bosses he toys with the tributes of half-men...He rolls the executions on his tongue like berries.
He wishes he could hug them like big friends from home."
Really well written and compelling; it didn't feel like it was 500+ pages.
Admittedly I was reading it purely out of interest so I'm not going to be quizzed on what I remember of it in a few weeks, but despite a wealth of detail it is easy enough to follow the main themes and figures.
The numbers involved in the repression and purge are so enormous that one constantly refers back to the individual stories, the people, to restore a sense of realism.
For that reason I also found it helpful to have read Figes' The Whisperers which focuses on Stalin's effect on every day life, ordinary individuals - it's an excellent companion to Conquest's account.
Huge book, full of details but, but, incredibly quickly read. Numbers and vastness are overwhelming. Can't help thinking 'how could it happen?, how did Stalin succeed?'. A masterpiece on dictatorship on masses.
I won't make any conclusions about that, but no wonder that the most сomplete book about Stalin's terror was written by the English Professor (like for example the best book about Chekhov in my opinion was written by Donald Rayfield).Conquest is not trying to seize every atrocity of Stalin's regime, instead he analyzes how and why the dictator was killing his own comrades, how he murdered all "old bolsheviks", he describes in every little details 1937-38 trials against former communist leaders and army generals.
Special place is reserved for stupid Western art people and journalists who were defending Stalin's regime at those time, were writing books at defence of the trials (like Feuchtwanger), etc.
Most everyone is aware of the tremendous breadth and brutality of Stalin's regime, but Robert Conquest's book really brings home the horrendous conditions and arbitrary nature power of the regime, as well as stultifying effect it had throughout the society.
Conquest skewers Western 'intellectuals' who knew what was going on, but sought to rationalize/minimize it out of concern for, as Jean-Paul Sartre put it, "discouraging the proletariat." To me, it seems pretty basic that any government which won't let its people leave is totally antithetical to anything pretending to tolerance or openness.
Say if half the town I live in were "purged"...
Still hard to grasp, and I live in a small town.
He had his reasons, following specific aspects of Stalin's evolution or actions in certain areas of government, or sometimes just giving the background on a newly introduced (and likely soon to be repressed) individual, but I found myself getting lost frequently.
I am finding by other current read "Stalin: Court of the Red Tsar" a bit easier going.
Perhaps I should have finished it first, but the up side is that I recognize the names and the story line is easier to follow now.
Must read stuff.From Amazon:Upon its publication in 1968, Conquest's The Great Terror: Stalin's Purge of the Thirties ( LJ 12/1/68) received wide acclaim for its broad, well-documented portrayal of the death of millions in Stalin's peacetime consolidation of power.
A generation later, the collection of samizdat literature and the openness of glasnost have permitted access to better information, thereby allowing a reassessment of the study.
Conquest's review largely confirms the original work.
In the new edition more recent documentation is incorporated and some portions are revised based upon new data.
Larger collections will want the revision.
Originally published in 1968, and reread for my 1930 stuff in class, this is the master narrative of Stalin's purges.
Conquest was working in the aftermath of the secret speech, piecing together evidence Khrushchev allowed out, as well as the memoirs of dissidents and other clues.
It must have been some horrible grim satisfaction to begin revisions in 1986 using Gorbachev's newly allowed sources to show that he had been substantially right.
Conquest toggles back and forth between individual cases and the larger processes, giving details on the machinery of the purge, the network of camps and the ever widening circle of people drag-netted.
Just started this for research on Stalin. It will be a chapter in a book I am writing on the Interwar years. Conquest is a poet--and this shows. Most important, he shows the care one must use in handling the historic evidence. His bibliographic notes are a model of evenhandedness that any historian would admire. I am eager to compare this earlier work with his more recent 1990 (?) version which reassesses the slippery evidence.Sig Rosenblum
Wonderful early (1968) detailed account of Stalin's purges and show trials of the late 1930s. Engrossing subject matter and vivid, excellent writing; Conquest updated this book as "The Great Terror: A Reassessment" in the 1990s.
Another Conquest title, this is a reassessment if you want to use this book to brain somebody. Not a light read but so well documented and described that it is The Assessment.
Awesome research. A bit of a slog. How many show trials can one take in? How many millions purged or sent to the gulag can you stomach? A staggering story.
One of the first books (perhaps the very first) published in the West about the nature of Stalin's terror.
This is a very tough read, but well worth the effort. I had no idea what a monster Stalin was.
There is no way an American can comprehend how evil a government Stalin was running.Read this book for a taste.
"Stalin is not a nice guy. We get it. This book was torture."
One of the most important books written in the 20th century.
A little long and overly detailed, I definitely skimmed some sections. Great insight into a terrible time in the USSR. What a sadistic thug Stalin, Vyshinsky and all those killers were.
The most comprehensive account of Stalin's purges of the 1930's. More than most readers will want to know, for those interested in this period, it is a must read.
