https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80674.Superfudge
The book's beginning is interesting, but then the text becomes inconsistent and the ending was disappointing and it happened all of a sudden. I'm reading some books I have at home whose audios I found in Scribd, so I'm not giving up on any book in this list, even if I don't like the development of the story, because I want soooo much to improve my English.
This book I hold as my first book obsession, and even though it never dawned on me to just go to the local bookstore, or maybe town library to get a copy, it still paved the way for many later obsessions with various books and getting them into my greedy little hands so that I could covet them forever and ever (this almost makes it sound like a stole the book, which I did not.
Actually I never even owned this book, I only read it twice, both times by taking it out of the library like a person does.
Although entertaining and a nice addition, it's definitely for older children.
While I could get away with reading the first and second book in the series to my five-year-old, this one had several sections I had to "fudge" over a bit.
I think we'll hold off on finishing this series for a bit especially since I have so many others that I can't wait to read with my son.
From Matilda and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory by Roald Dahl, to the Chronicles of Narnia by C.S. Lewis, there's a huge stack of wonderful stories on my shelf waiting to be shared with my son.
Holy Shnikes, I've forgotten how funny the Fudge books are. Some of the one-liners here are KILLER.A new baby is born into the Hatcher family. Peter's family moves to Princeton for a trial year, to see if they prefer it over the city. Naturally all sorts of shenanigans occur---courtesy of Farley Drexel Hatcher himself.
I have made that mistake a few times in my career.We had read Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing.
I read ahead some for the next few days and stumbled across a classic Judy Blume event.
As a fourth grade teacher, I do not want to be the one who gives up the ghost.
There is absolutely no need for that in this book, yet there it is!
I now read none of the Fudge books because I can never recall which one is "problematic", so they all are off the reading list.Curse you, Judy Blume!
I like the part in "Superfudge" when Peter moved with his family for a year or two to Princeton.
I also like the part when Peter and Jimmy Fargo made the deal before he moved to Princeton, and they both broke the promise so Peter and Jimmy Fargo both don't have to feel bad anymore for breaking their promises because now they both know that they both broke the promise.
It has two black circles and one red square and the red square was from Jimmy Fargo's mom who splattered it when she got angry and then got divorced from Jimmy Fargo's dad.
The book started with such a nice surprise and had such a promising plot but it just fell all out of place by the end of the book.
Honestly,the first book was the best book in this series.
I like how Fudge is still a little bit mischievous here but the way he talks or the way he behaves,suggests a little kid acting strange because of trying to seek attention.
There's no innocence or beauty in this behaviour.
It felt like reading a new book having completely new characters whom I don't know at all.
I miss Peter and I miss Fudge.
Peter and Fudge like each other, but as siblings, they don't really get along.
What is he going to do with another one?Peter and Fudge have a lot of ups and downs in this book.
New Jersey is important in this book, because it has certain places and areas that Fudge and Peter go that really explain what it's like there.There are a lot of themes in "Superfudge", but the one to stand out more is loving what you have.
Peter and Fudge don't want a little sister around, but learn that she is now apart of the family, and they can't get rid of her.
4th-5th grade (independent reading)Blume does such an excellent job with her books.
Superfudge was full of what a fourth or fifth grader wants, a fun and intresting plot, characters they can relate with, and text they can understand.
The plot of Superfudge had twists and turns from the new baby's arrival to moves to and from the country.
The characters of Superfudge are also easy to identify in a fifth or fourth graders own life.
This book has an easy appeal to any student who is into realistic fictional books because Blume makes it so fun to read.Language Arts/ScieneStudents could study the life of worms and their regeneration process.
This book taught me how to handling younger annoying siblings and moving to another place is not easy .I congratulate Peter for doing such a good job in handling younger siblings and handling the stress of moving,changing schools,and changing friends.I read this book in fourth grade and it really touched me and changed the way my brother and I get along.Peter has to move and has a very annoying brother .
When he thought anything else could go wrong he gets informed the family is welcoming someone .I like Peter because he wants a to be with his friends and schools.
when peter was walking home with Alex and Jimmy Alex said so how does it feel like being in love?Later at school Mr.Bogner brought in a sprig of mistletoe Alex rasied his hand and said who ever goes under it gets kissed and when the school bell rang he found him self next to Joanne they looked at each other and Joanne kissed Peter on the cheek.
I know it's for a much younger audience but I'm trying to start the new year by knocking out these younger books and YA from the to-be-read pile. This book was SO cute and had a surprising layer of things going on for the story. From Blume it's usually so and I continued to grow more and more enamored with her work. I felt for the parents as what bratty children at times - they have much more patience than I do!
"Superfudge" is the sequel to Judy Blume's great classic "Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing" and it is as good if not better than the first book. I remember reading this book until the pages started falling out, so I just threw a couple rubber bands around it to hold them in. I hope to someday share these wonderful books with my own kids...
So although I enjoyed some aspects of the book, such as Fudge and his funny lines or his silly ways ( I especially enjoyed when he put stamps all over his little sister) I found a lot of it to be easily forgetable and predictable.
I felt that for my book group of 9-12 year old girls, this would be too young.
Knowing how grown-up these girls tend to be, I would suggest this book be for 8 to 10 year olds.
So overall, while I found this book funny at times, I felt it wasn't right for my particular group so it will not be used.
We read it aloud every night before bed, and it was such fun to see him enjoy a book I loved as a child.
It was also wonderful to watch him begin to understand that books can be just as enjoyable without pictures.Superfudge brought the same laughs it did when I was a kid, but, reading it as a parent, I definitely found myself irritated at some points - lots of people telling one another to shut up, lots of name calling - stupid, dummy, etc.
It would be difficult for parent to help a child continue to believe in the myth after reading that section.
This is Judy Blume's sequel to "Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing." It's considerably longer than its predecesor, I found it a tad too long.
It's fast paced and I liked the ending, the ending in fact was the best part of the book.
I didn't mean I was happy to see it end, just that the ending was well done.In "Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing," Blume takes more time developing the characters.
I thought some of the endings in this book were kind of abrupt and I wasn't really sure where the story was going most of the time--or what the point of all this was.
One day Peter was in his room until his mother shout out “TIME FOR DINNER!”So he rushed downstairs.
And he rushed downstairs as quickly as he could because he wanted to beat his little brother.
In addition his mother and father told him and his little brother that they are going to have another baby on the house.
So Peter got so really angry at his mother and father so goes upstairs to his room .He went upstairs because he didn’t want a sister.
Then when the baby arrived from the hospital Fudge liked her but, Peter didn’t and he hated her because she would be crying all night.
Originally published in 1980, this story is about the relationship between brothers Peter and Fudge.
Being the younger brother and outspoken, Fudge seems to find himself in some very interesting situations making for a outrageously funny story.
I especially love that Fudge will say or do whatever comes to mind.
In typical six-year old form, he climbs on top of a high shelf refusing to come down when his teacher insists on calling him by his given name.
Hilarious.
This is a really sentimental book, conjuring up times when boys road their bikes to school or to the lake for a picnic.
Farley Drexel Hatcher, otherwise known as Fudge, Plans to be a bird when he grows up.
As far as his older brother Peter Hatcher is concerned Fudge will grow up to be a big pain in the butt.
Having to deal with Fudge has been hard enough now that there's a whole nother set of problems for Peter to deal with.
And on the way his mom is having a baby.
How do you think Peters going to survive with Fudge AND the new baby?
Read on to find out.
Laugh along while reading!
Superfudge by Judy Blume is a story about a boy named Peter Hatcher, his mother and father, his little brother Fudge, and his little sister Tootsie.
When Peter’s family moves to Princeton for a year, Peter is faced with new challenges, such as a new school and new friends and his crazy little brother Fudge who gets kicked out of a kindergarten class.
During Peter’s time in Princeton he must learn how much he values his family and what they mean to him.
This book is very relatable to children, just like most Judy Blume books and I think that young children, and children that have younger siblings, or have to move would really enjoy this book.
I really enjoyed the book "Superfudge" by Judy Blume.
Judy does a great job of keeping your attention to the book.
Fudge is a five-year-old and makes this book very interesting.
Peter, Fudge's older brother, is now in the fifth grade.
He thinks he is the best because Fudge looks up to him.
Their family moved, and the first day at their new school Fudge called the teacher “Rat Face." He then got kicked out of that class and moved to a different classroom.
If you want a good laugh, this is the book for you.
I recommend this book to third grade to eighth grade students.
When my children were young, 13, 7 & 6, I would read out loud to them for half an hour every night while my husband watched TV.
He watched a program that wasn't so great for kids.
The children and I were reading this book and we laughed and laughed so much that one night my Husband came into the bedroom and sat on the bed with us.
Every night after that all five of us piled on the bed and listened to the hilarious exploits of Peter and Fudge.
This is a unique book that spanned all ages and made us all laugh until our sides ache.
I just finished reading this one to my second grade son. After we finished the first book, he wanted to know what happened next. This is a series in which I feel the author should have stopped while she was ahead. She seems to be stretching to find funny things to write about and adding a new baby to the family didn't help the story line. Long chapters, overly descriptive, and not anywhere nearly as entertaining as "Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing." But, if you are 8 and haven't had enough "Fudge," you will eat this story up.
“Super Fudge” is a good book for third to middle school aged kids; the younger kids can understand it because Judy Blume doesn't use difficult vocabulary words. I as a high school student enjoyed the book, but other high school students might get bored and think that it is not challenging enough. I liked the book because it kept me interested, and talks about having younger siblings. I always wished that I had younger siblings. It kept me laughing at how the family handled situations.
This was better than tales of a fourth grade nothing. It was more funny and intertaining. I read this at school in a book club that I joined. We had to do trivia and projects on Judy blume books and dicuss them. It was fun and I know and like this book the best of all the books we read in the club!!!
I read and re-read this book when I was a kid, and it always made me laugh. I remember the details of this book like I have just finished it yesterday. I still have my childhood copy. Pee-tah :D
is a good book
I thought it was really funny and really exciting at some parts in the book.
When my 8 yo begs to read another chapter- it's a good book :)
oh Fudgy Fudge! you are annoying AH & adorable AF!
