https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30007.The_Glass_Key
Ned Beaumont was doing everything he could to ease the situation and for his trouble he got the full set of what you expect a private detective would get in a noir mystery (even though the guy was not a private detective, strictly speaking): he got knocked up by having his head used as a drum several times, some local goons used him as a punching bag, some people became curious about the price he can be bought, damsels in distress with hidden agendas needed his help; in short: everything else you can think of in association with the word "noir".
My second read now, when I became full of cynicism (also called experience) I looked at the book from a completely different point of view and I liked it better.
Paul's friend and right hand man, a professional troubleshooter named Ned Beaumont, reluctantly gets involved in the mess, trying to clear Madvig's name and to find out who in a long list of enemies is trying to bring his boss down.—«»—«»—«»—I've actually read the book a few months back and didn't take a lot of notes (it's the kind of story you want to bookmark wholesale and study in a creative writing workshop).
"Don't you like it, baby?" he asked and, holding Ned Beaumont up on his knees with one hand, struck his face with the other fist.
(The Maltese Falcon doesn’t count as it is the novel I’ve reread more than any other--by a wide margin.) When in a message board review for a different book I grouped The Glass Key among Hammett’s lesser works, I was promptly called out on it.
Only at the conclusion does the solution carry any importance.You have to get deeper into the novel before you realize The Glass Key is actually about this unnamed town and the behind-the-scenes battle for control of it.
This is mildly surprising because Madvig has aligned himself with a senator also seeking election, and it’s his son who is murdered.
2η ανάγνωση μετά από 23 περίπου χρόνια. Ο αλλοτινός μου εαυτός το είχε βρει αριστούργημα και με ενθουσιασμό περίσσιο το διέδιδε όπου μπορούσε. Ο πρεσβύτερος, βεβαίως, αναγνωρίζει τη σημασία του, συνεχίζοντας να το θεωρεί εξαιρετικό ανάγνωσμα και ζωτικής σημασίας για την εξέλιξη του είδους. Ενθουσιασμός όμως, έχει πάψει να υφίσταται. Συνεχίζουμε...
You will thank me later.For whatever reason – even though I clearly love the film – I’d never actually read the Dashiell Hammett novel which inspired it.
(You’ll understand when you see the film.) Even if I didn’t know that this was the inspiration, I’d have spotted it almost immediately anyway.I always dislike reading a book after I’ve seen the film, as I normally end up just comparing one to the other, but in this case it was unavoidable.
The ending perhaps isn’t as clever or as affecting as it should be, but this is a classy gangster tale with suspense, great scenes and fantastic dialogue – and you can’t really ask for more than that, can you?
655. The Glass Key, Dashiell Hammettکلید شیشه ای - داشیل همت، ترجمه پرویز نصیری (روزنه کار) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و چهارم ماه دسامبر سال 2003 میلادیفصل انتخابات در آمریکا نزدیک است در آمریکای ابتدای قرن بیستم ... شهر و مقامات شهر گوش به فرمان گانگستر مقتدر «پل مدویگ» است. او در انتخابات از سناتور هنری پشتیبانی میکند، و گانگستر نوظهور «شاد اوروری» از کاندیدای رقیب... در ابتدای امر جسد پسر سناتور، در کنار خیابان پیدا میشود و «ند بومانت» که مشاور و همکار ارشد «پل مدویگ» است به عنوان کارآ
The Glass Key, Dashiell Hammettکلید شیشه‌ ای - داشیل همت، ترجمه پرویز نصیری (روزنه‌ کار) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و چهارم ماه دسامبر سال 2003 میلادیفصل انتخابات در آمریکا نزدیک است در آمریکای ابتدای قرن بیستم ...
شهر و مقامات شهر گوش به فرمان گانگستر مقتدر «پل مدویگ» است.
او در انتخابات از سناتور هنری پشتیبانی میکند، و گانگستر نوظهور «شاد اوروری» از کاندیدای رقیب...
در ابتدای امر جسد پسر سناتور، در کنار خیابان پیدا میشود و «ند بومانت» که مشاور و همکار ارشد «پل مدویگ» است به عنوان کارآگاه راز این قتل را جستجو میکند.
RED HARVEST is great but feels a little serial-y, DAIN CURSE is four stories glommed together, and both MALTESE FALCON and THIN MAN have some rather gaping plot holes that you gotta asphalt over to get to the end.
Maybe what's most interesting is the way the Ham embeds the serial cliffhangers within the larger plot---it's what makes the book feel less improvised than HARVEST.
Hammett came up with the glass key because his editor at Black Mask was pushing him for a title to publicize his forthcoming serial and then he had to work it into the actual plot.
It's interesting to me that in terms of influence, Raymond Chandler seems to be cited more by novelists (Paul Auster, China Miéville) and Dashiell Hammett, by filmmakers (the Coen Brothers, Rian Johnson).
A quick internet search revealed the interesting factoid that both the Coen Brothers and Rian Johnson named this book as a particular influence and so of course I had to read it.
Whereas Raymond Chandler's hero Philip Marlowe is wittily succinct, Dashiell Hammett's Ned Beaumont is the strong silent type, saying almost nothing.
It's more political thriller than detective novel, so if that's your thing you might like this, but any sort of political intrigue drama generally bores me to death unless it's actually a historical political intrigue.
It got to the point where I seriously considered just abandoning the book and reading something else, which is not good - I didn't even care who had murdered the guy, because I didn't care about him or any of the people who might have killed him, and I certainly didn't like Beaumont enough to want him to crack the case and get the dame and all that.
Dashiell Hammett's heroes are probably best known for their sang-froid.
And all is to help his politician friend Paul Madvig, who is running for office while trying to evade a number of highly sticky crimes.The messes in this novel multiply, until Beaumont finally finds out who killed the senator's hotheaded son and left his body lying in the street -- the same senator whose daughter Paul Madvig loved to distraction.
And the two women who love Ned find he doesn't much care for either one of them.
Hammett is always worth reading, even if this isn't his best book.
Really found it difficult to warm to this murder mystery. Other reviewers have rated this highly but for this reader it just didn't stand out for the genre..... I'm having difficulty trying to pin point exactly why. Ned Beaumont was an interesting main character although I did have some difficulty investing in some of his actions and thought processes. Listed on the Boxall 1000 list but it just wasn't for me.
I read this for the first time which dosent have the rep of Red Harvest, The Maltese Falcon but i found it to be almost his best, great lead character in Ned Beaumont.
Ned Beaumont is an political henchman, part of the corruption that own the city and he works for a man The Op would bring down in Red Harvest for his crimes.
Im not talking about the actual plot of the book but the theme and characters so dont worry about Spoilers.Naturally i prefer The Glass Key over The Maltese Falcon because its more essential Hammett story, themes.
Free download available at Faded Page.A dark roman noir with some hints of political corruption, very close to the actual moment.4* The Thin Man5* The Maltese Falcon3* Nightmare Town4* Secret Agent X-94* Who Killed Bob Teal?3* Red Harvest3* The Glass Key4* Woman in the darkTR The Continental OpTR The Return of the Continental OpTR The Tenth ClewTR The Dain CurseTR The Big Knockover: Selected Stories and Short Novels
There's little doubt that Hammett not only set the stage, but really invented the hard-boiled detective with The Continental Op and Sam Spade.
And his work wasn't particularly influential, whereas Hammett's clearly was.
I think, however, that with Ned Beaumont and The Glass Key, Hammett really set the stage for the type of literary noir that has a morally ambiguous protagonist who isn't really in control of events.
The Glass Key clearly sets the stage for James M.
Cain, Jim Thompson and the "Gold Medal" noir writers.
It's dirtier and nastier and Beaumont is much harder and weaker and further from the heroic protagonist than either.
Καταλήγω στο ότι δεν είναι το καλύτερο αστυνομικό που διάβασα ποτέ, αλλά για την εποχή που γράφτηκε είναι πολύ αξιόλογο για αυτό το ψήφισα με 4/5! http://bit.ly/2keaHCe
Ενδεχομένως, το πιο πρωτότυπο και πιο ήπια hard-boiled αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα του Χάμετ, το οποίο οι αναγνώστες και θαυμαστές του θα απολαύσουν, εξίσου, με ενδιαφέρον.Η δράση τοποθετείται την εποχή πάλι της ποτοαπαγόρευσης, αλλά αυτή τη φορά ο χώρος με τον οποίον καταπιάνεται ο συγγραφέας είναι ο πολιτικός 'στίβος' και τα όρια μεταξύ διαφθοράς και διαφάνειας, τα οποία είναι ιδιαίτερα ρευστά για τους περισσότερους ήρωες του βιβλίου.Η υπόθεση ξετυλίγεται σαν να βλέπεις ταινία με τους διαλόγους και τις 'εικόνες' που δημιουργούνται στον αναγνώστη να έχουν ταχύτητα, εναλλαγές και σπιρτόζικο χιούμορ.
I must say that I can definitely understand both why Hammett himself considered "The Glass Key" his masterpiece *and* why many modern-day readers don't enjoy it as much as for example "Red Harvest".One of the things I liked best might turn off other readers: None of the characters are very admirable, most are frequently downright unpleasant, but even the bad guys' minor henchmen come across as rather human.
something else I imagine frustrates some readers, but for me that just made the story more interesting.Something else I really liked was how lived-in the depictions of San Francisco and New York in the early 1930s felt just through very subtle means, making the cities as much individual characters as any of the people.
اما این به معنای این نیست که چیزی تو ذوق آدم نمی زنهیکی از بزرگترین نقص های این داستان به نظرم جذابیت ند بومانت، کارآگاه داستان، برای زنان است.
البته آدمو گیج هم می کنه، گیجیایی که لزوما برطرف هم نمی شن - در مورد جایگاه آدما، نسبتاشون، وضعیت سیاسی و از این دست چیزهااما در مورد ترجمه باید اذعان کنم که خوب نیست.
The Glass Key is the second of Hammett's novels that I've read, the first being Red Harvest, which I read over thirty years ago.
It will be interesting some day to go back and read Red Harvest, which I plan to do, on its own terms, because I suspect I'll find some of the same things I found here, with The Glass Key, which I could appreciate better than I could back then.
In this case, Ned Beaumont, the main character in The Glass Key, is driven by all the same desires as the people around him--he is one of them.
Plus he sold a lot of more books than I have.There are too many examples of what I hated about this book, but I really don’t want to go back and find them specifically because that means I’d have to go back and relive too much.
Ned Beaumont looked obliquely at him and said, “No, I’m not a heel.” “Yes, you’re a heel.” “Well, maybe I am a heel,” Ned Beaumont regretfully replied.
“So maybe I am a heel,” Ned Beaumont regretfully admitted.You get the drift.
These were the days when men wore hats, women called them louses, everyone drank and smoked all day and goons beat up patsies and called them pals later.This was extolled to me as one of Hammett's masterpieces, but I found a couple major flaws that I can't explain without issuing a SPOILER ALERT, so be forewarned.Our protagonist is Ned Beaumont, a jack of all trades working for his friend and boss, political chieftan Paul Madvig.
I won't give away the perpetrator or even all the plot twists, but two of them bothered me greatly, even trying to allow for differences in mores and literary styles over the past 80 years.At one point in the book, Beaumont has a spat with Madvig and seemingly defects to Madvig's political rival, Shad O'Rory.
Perplexing... Such a slow and serpentine plot. The characters are even richer than Maltese, Ned is a more ambiguous character then Spade (who, himself, is one of a kind).
Μεγάλος μάστορας ο Χάμετ!
This isn't Hammett's best-known work -- that would be a toss-up between The Maltese Falcon and The Thin Man -- but is this his best? It's possible. The plot is as well-crafted as a watch, and every word, every interaction, sets the scene or moves the plot along or illuminates character. Granted, there's no actual detective involved, but Ned Beaumont does a good imitation.
He's definitely reminiscent of Sam Spade, but he's not a detective and not quite a lone wolf - he's mostly a loyal partner to Paul Madvig, a somewhat mysterious figure, a bit like Nucky from Boardwalk Empire - sort of a combination of mayor and likable crime boss.
Not quite the pearl that Falcon is, but it's good in its own right.Oh, and just in case you missed it twice in the GR synopsis, this detective fiction combines an airtight plot, authentically venal characters, and writing of telegraphic crispness, not to mention an airtight plot, authentically venal characters, and writing of telegraphic crispness.
Paul was backing the senator and loved his daughter, but there becomes reason to believe that he may have killed the son.
At first using the death to avenge himself against a bookie who skipped town, he then gets truly embroiled in finding the truth, especially after Paul’s rival captures and beats Ned for information about the murder.This thriller doesn’t have the long line of dead men that The Dain Curse does – only five, if I’m counting correctly – but it’s just as tough and gritty in tone.
The main character is gambler and racketeer Ned Beaumont, who discovers the body of a local senator's son — whose father is tied to political boss Paul Madvig.
He is soon pulled into trying to direct the mounting evidence away from his boss but it seems things go from bad to worse.
There is mounting tension and plenty of action in this dark, brooding tale of twisted loyalties and conflicting interests.As it was written in the 1930s, my only complaint, if it even is, is the weakness of all the female characters.
I remember less about this book than many of Hammett's other ones. But even though the specifics are a bit more hazy, the memory of it being a really good read is not. It's a very dark tale, darker than "The Maltese Falcon" or possibly any of the tales of "The Continetal Op". It digs into the seamiest side of corruption, politics and deviousness. I've read that Hammett considered it his best work and there is a mystery/crime writer's award named after the book. Time for me to read it again I think.
A reread. I used to think this book was the bee's knees; I'm less impressed with it now. I don't care about the characters anymore and the plot feels thin, so it's down to enjoying the sparse style and quick action, which I did.
I loved it. I thought Hammett was amazing before, but the Glass Key just solidified it. Definitely his tightest, most coherent novel. The characters were sharp, the pacing was quick, the plot was Goldilocks. No wonder the Coen brothers couldn't get enough.
