https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91981.The_Dragonbone_Chair
“He who is certain he knows the ending of things when he is only beginning them is either extremely wise or extremely foolish; no matter which is true, he is certainly an unhappy man, for he has put a knife in the heart of wonder.” - Qanuc ProverbThe Dragonbone Chair is chock and block full of wonder.
It is a slow burner, especially the first third of the novel (titled Simon Mooncalf), but once the simmer turns into a boil there's no stopping the story.Recommended for everybody who likes their fantasy served with a hefty dose of EPIC.
While I enjoyed it overall, I was able to set the book down and walk away, coming and going from the story until Simon reached the woods.
I consider it a bad sign when I'm able to set a book down--my favorites have me locked into reading position until I reach the end page.
The white hounds and the Bakken bring nicely frightening elements to the story.One frustration is that Simon's development seemed very uneven and unlikely to me, that parts of his political and intellectual consciousness seemed so limited even when being taught by the doctor.
Williams' Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn remains, IMHO, one of the most underread and underappreciated series out there.
The series as a whole incorporates most classical fantasy elements: an epic quest, dark sorcery, an unlikely hero, etc., but what makes it unforgettable for me is one main thing.
I can't think of a single time where I thought, "This has been done before," and that's rare, considering the amount of fantasy literature I've read.
The land of Osten Ard remains one of the most vivid locales in literature I've read, and its inhabitants are incredibly memorable as well.
One of the seminal works of epic fantasy which, along with the works of Robert Jordan and David Eddings, made the genre what it is today.
Williams makes a virtue of starting small as we follow orphaned kitchen boy Simeon through his childhood in the castle of King Prester John.
However, the king's death heralds an age of discord and Simeon finds himself drawn into valiant Prince Josua's rebellion against his increasingly despotic and magically deranged brother.
If you're a fantasy fan and you haven't read this, you're really not trying.
“Books are a form of magic because they span time and distance more surely than any spell and charm.”  The Dragonbone Chair  is the first book in  Tad Williams’ Memory, Sorrow and Thorn  series and an amazing coming of age story, which probably had big enough impact to shape and influence many of today’s popular writers of this genre. For that alone, it is my opinion, that it should be visited at least once in a lifetime, no matter of someone’s preference in their genres.A truly magnificent wor
I don’t agree with those complaints, but I understand why they are there.I actually liked how history of this world was told through classes Simon had with Morgenes; how stories he would told him were filled with names and years; how he would describe some minor thing in details and the moment your head starts falling and you start dozing off, Morgenes would stop himself and ask if he was boring you, so that both Simon and you yourself, would feel slightly embarrassed for being caught wanting to hear about those magnificent heroic battles.
My very useful and coherent review:
20-30%, something could happen, are we leaving yet?
35-45% OK, we left the castle, something has to happen right?
Fires, dragons, magic swords, trolls, elves, demons, mountains, crossing the map, wolves (good and bad), bad dreams/good dreams, death, sieges, magical storms, ships.......The slow build-up eventually drops you off the cliff into a sea of epic fantasy and it is worth it.
Looking forward to picking up where the 1st book left off and would recommend this book with the warning: it is indeed a slow build-up to what ultimately looks to be some good epic fantasy.
Truly a masterpiece and probably my favorite Fantasy book of all time. The rest of the series is pretty awesome as well. Also, the most evil villain bar none of any Fantasy series I've ever read in Pryrates the evil priest. If you haven't read Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn in its entirety, you really must. This is what made me a Tad Williams fan for life.

I immediately said yes, for four reasons: Tad Williams was a new author for me, one I’d been curious about every since the 1998 publication of City of Golden Shadow, Book I in his Otherland series; I love the fantasy genre, and; I very much look forward to buddy read’s.
But what really piqued my interest was the fact that Williams novel was a significant influence in George R.R. Martin's writing of A Song of Ice and Fire.http://hodderscape.co.uk/throwback-th...Tad Williams impressed me almost instantaneously.
In addition, Williams obviously wrote it for the simple fact that there was nothing quite like it, upon publication in 1988.
Good thing I have the right friends here to open my eyes.If you loved LOTR story, you’ll love this one too.
If at first, I thought that some parts of it were too detailed, toward the end I began to see that all have their role in the main story.And after reading so many other series before, I think I can say that this one had a major influence on others: Sullivan’s Legends of The First Empire, Brett’s Demons, Gwynne’s Faithful and the Fallen, GRRM’s Got and even Robin Hobb’s.Can’t wait to see what the 2nd volume brings.
2.5*The writing style is very good. However the pacing is super slow. If you're going to have a slow pace, for me, you have to balance it with some sort of engaging psychological gauging of the characters usually with a high dose of empathy or some type of theoretical discussion which is thought provoking or some witty character banter. I think if you like old school fantasy and it's pacing you'll love this. If you don't then not so much.
The series, and in the case of this review, The Dragone Bone Chair, has always made it onto my lists of 'Favorite Fantasy or top ten books read.' But in all honesty, I only vaguely remembered them and how they made me feel.
I know I loved them - the exact reasons had just become fuzzy over the years.With the announcement of Tad bringing new novels out in this world next year (2017), I knew that I needed to do a re-read.
I've been wanting to read this book for a long time and was sorely disappointed.
Tropes aside this book is so long winded and dull I could barely get through it!
The cast of characters was too long and Mr. Williams just didn't have the talent to make any of them interesting.
And the long winded chats and explanations!
I'm always complaining about these puny 300 page fantasy novels but for once I wish Mr. Williams would've taken his head out of his ass and cut his page count in half.
I read "The Old Scale Game", a short story by Tad Williams off Unfettered, and I was like "Oi!
Mind you, there's nothing original about this novel, it's a pretty cliched story, but I guess it was just what I needed to read: old-fashioned high fantasy, that is, Young-scullion-saves-the-prince-who's-kept-captive-in-a-dungeon-by-his-brother-who-happens-to-be-king-and-under-the-mischievous-influence-of-a-sumbitch-scumbag-puppy-stomping-priest-sort-of-fantasy.
I know there are plenty of people who find this book to be nothing but a waste of time, and might roll their eyes whenever someone mentions Tad Williams so...
Besides Tad Williams seems to be in love with the word "mooncalf", he also uses funny units of measurement such as cubits, furlongs and ells...
There are two things that are cited most often 1) the slow start and 2)that there is nothing new (no new magic system, cultures are copies of Earth cultures, main character follows scullion to hero story, etc.), and I want to briefly address both those concerns before giving my final recommendation.
The answer is that Williams needs that much time to introduce most of his characters and to establish the history and mythology necessary to easily follow the rest of the story.
Because Tad Williams understands something that escapes many authors: GREAT CHARACTERS MAKE A STORY, NOT NEW ELEMENTS!
I have to be honest, I love Tad Williams.
He's very big on character development, which is basically all I read books for.
I not only forgive three hundred pages of character introduction and exposition and plot set-up, I gleefully embrace it.This book isn't any different from others of his that I've read in that respect, and in all others, it's a classic fantasy adventure.
Check!
Check!
Check!
Double check!
And yet in spite of all of the staples of fantasy writing that he employs, Williams still manages to make The Dragonbone Chair fresh and entertaining.
Maybe even the King Arthur story to some extent—until young Arthur pulls the sword from the stone.
As lives go in Midieval-like settings, his lot in life isn’t so bad, although the housekeeper Rachel does make his existence somewhat miserable.
The writing isn’t the best ever, but the story is engaging and I am waiting impatiently for volume 2 at my public library, where it is ‘on order.’ No telling how long I will have to pause before I know what happens to Simon, the kingdom, and the Storm King!Book number 239 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
My introduction to Tad Williams was the Otherland quartet, which rank among the very best books I ever read.
I expected the same from other Williams works, so I picked up The Dragonbone Chair for some summer vacation reading.And I was incredibly disappointed.
I found myself flipping past 2-3 pages at a time of tedious descriptions of scenery, clothing, weather, and emotions to get to the few lines of dialog per chapter.
But this book was tedious...it could have been 200 pages shorter and a much more engaging story, without cutting out one line of dialog.
Abgebrochen auf Seite 203Es kam leider keine Spannung auf und ich konnte auch keine Handlung erkennen. Bis auf die Gespräche und Begegnungen zwischen Simon Mondkalb und Dr. Morgenes war das Buch LAME.
Once again, I feel as though this is a series with potential, but as yet it's not reached that potential and so I will certainly continue onto book 2, but as of right now Otherland intrigued me more by this point.This story focuses on a young boy called Simon who is a Kitchen-boy at the Castle.
I am hopeful that as this series continues I will start to see some development of the magic and characters which will make me more interested in their fates, and so for now this gets a 3*s overall.
I hadn't thought of it in a little while, but speaking about books today with a friend brought it to mind and I thought, "I haven't read that this year...I should." The four LARGE volumes are quite an investment, both in money and in time, (get it from the library, or let me know and you can borrow mine when I'm done) but it's worth it in the end.
I know that sci-fi/fantasy are seriously formulaic, and these are not that different...young boy, thrown into circumstances beyond his control, rises to win friends and influence people and then defeats the ultimate enemy and finds true love...blah blah blah...but I so enjoy this particular telling.
Some people can't stand special snowflake Simon, but I love it all.The Dragonbone Chair is takes a long time to build, and therefore it's hard to give a spoiler free premise.
Our main character is Simon, a young orphan boy living in the Hayholt castle.
However, he doesn't know that he will become part of a journey that isn't nearly as glorious as he expected it to be.In many ways, The Dragonbone Chair is a classic fantasy story.
His is a typical coming of age story, but a heartfelt one.The world of Osten Ard slowly unfolds like a scroll being opened.
To want too much was worse than greed: it was stupidity— a waste of precious time and effort.Odlično djelo gosn Williamsa.
Uživao sam u ovoj knjizi.
Uživao sam u svakom liku, svakom krajoliku divnog Osten Arda, kao i mnogih rasa koje se nalaze na toj zemlji.
Williams ovdje nije izmislio ništa novo, niti u magijskom sistemu(magični mačevi) niti u priči(siroče koje se našlo između 2 zaratite strane i koje otkriva da je ipak posebniji nego što je on mislio da jest).
Tad Williams definitivno zna svoj zanat i umije odlično da piše i uvijek sam se radovao kada ću se vratiti knjizi da je čitam.Magičnih 5*
Out of the older tradition of fantasy writing, this one takes its time and builds slowly, carefully, meticulously, until we have a world and conflict that feels real and surprising in the present with the depth that a long history provides.
I will admit to being bored at times, and frustrated with Simon's ignorance and naivete, especially in this first book.
What I would consider to be the introduction takes about 200 pages.
Then it's not really until the end of this book that it really reaches the pace and depth that spurs you on to pick up the rest - immediately.
No matter, I plunged onward."The Dragonbone Chair" (DBC) starts out with all the tropes we demand from our fantasy: the young protagonist, the far-flung and varied characters, a feudal political system, and a vast narrative encompassing elf-like beings, prophecy, and an ancient doom.
The narrative is predictable but no less fun to read: Simon is taken in by the castle scholar, Dr. Morgenes, for tutoring, and his development is shown in excruciating detail over the first half of the book.
Simon becomes his own type of imperfect fantasy hero by the end of this volume in a spectacular way, but the path he takes to arrive there is frequently irritating, occassionally cowardly and sometimes nasty.
Another similarity to Tolkien, is how Williams employs many different real world myths, legends, and cultures, with a twist, in his novel.And as Williams drew influence from his predecessors he has also inspired many.
I'm also sure this work inspired many other authors, especially the penchant in the 90's for longer more epic works, like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time.The Dragonbone Chair starts somewhat slowly, with very little action in the opening chapters (roughly 150 pages or so) but Williams does a fine job introducing characters, cultures and paradigms at this stage in the book.
4.5 stars, deservedly rounded up to 5 stars for the overall enjoyment of this first book in the "Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn" series.
A slow start and one or two sections in which I was lulled into near boredom (hence the missing half star in the rating), but beyond that a great adventure filled with interesting, well developed characters; colorfully descriptive and imaginative places and things...and plenty of action and intrigue once the story gets going.
The author's careful attention to painting a scene is remarkably well done, and consistent throughout the book.
Character interaction is also well crafted.
Looking forward to continuing on with this series.
I enjoyed every word, I enjoyed nature of Osten Ard. It's so unlike Forgotten Realms, Dragonlance, Diskworld and Shadow of a Dark Queen, less colorful, but not less wonderful. All point-of-views were engaging and not-cringe-worthy. I found first half of book more interesting than some later parts, but loved part featuring Jiriki, Ice Dragon, Joshua's escape from Naglimund, Simon's dreams, I LOVED Simon's dreams and Miriamele.
I really enjoyed this book once I concentrated on it. Williams isn't really breaking any new ground in fantasy with it, but it's well-written and well-imagined.
