https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90006.The_Hammer_of_God
If there is such a thing as a true Lutheran spirituality, Bo Giertz has illustrated the possibility compellingly.”What is so appealing about Bo Giertz’s book is that it contains rich theology that is rooted in Law and Gospel, Monergism and the Grace of God. The book does not read like an aggressive dogmatic book but fleshes this fine theology out through the interaction of the characters.
Even those that are not theologically trained will be able to identify the characters that are self-absorbed versus the characters that are centered in the Gospel.
This book is a collection of three loosely related novellas about the "cure of souls" in Lutheran Sweden. It is all very good, and parts of it are glorious. I think it would be particularly encouraging to pastors involved in the hard slog of pastoral care.

I was quite moved by this book. It is really three short stories, each about a pastor who fails and has to fall back on the grace of Jesus Christ to really learn what ministry is really about. That is a very familiar story for me. I had not heard of the author before; he was a bishop in the Church of Sweden. He was a man who knew the power of grace and knew how to tell others about it.
An incredible journey in young pastors' lives to truly experience the difference between empty, pious religiosity and a true saving faith.Written by a Swedish Lutheran about fictional Swedish Lutherans, there are some theological points that I might disagree with. However, the overall theme of grace, humility, and repentance seen in three very unique circumstances is a timeless message that I hope many will have the opportunity to enjoy.
Five stars for the theology; this book is really on point with solid doctrine and the pitfalls of error. Two stars for the fiction. I found it boring and repetitive, though some of that may be translation.
A book I re-read every year. I love it-- a pastoral care/theology textbook in novel form.
Depth, life, gospelStirring tales brought together by the thread of the gospel. Descriptive language doesn’t seem to be lost translation. It is fascinating that though eras change, our approach to the gospel does not.
I mean, are children prepared to enter the kingdom of God just as they are, or must they, too, be made partakers of the salvation in Christ?""They must be saved by Jesus.
The children needed to come to Jesus to become partakers in the kingdom of God, just as much as publicans and all other sinners.
'Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.""But children cannot believe.
Before reading this novel (or, to be more precise, this collection of three related novellas), I had heard Giertz described as the Lutheran C.
I enjoyed the novel very much, and I would recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more about Lutheran doctrine, but I can't say that it was life-changing for me.
The three novellas, set in three different historical periods, each deal with a young Lutheran pastor who struggles against the prevailing theological trends of his time.
They seemed like the same naive, confused, ineffective young pastor set in three different periods.
In three eras, a pastor is trying to revive the spiritual lives of his people -- to some degree with success, always relying on pietistic use of the law, always discovering freedom and peace in the gospel of Jesus Christ.
In all three eras, there was a mission society and that was where the "revivals" grew out of, while the church government -- centered in the "Cathedral Chapter" always posed a danger to what was going on.I'd like to reread this book because there are "connections" I didn't see the first time.Bo Giertz was an atheist until he went to university and was disgusted by the egotism and selfishness of other atheists and impressed by the character of Christians.
My husband's been telling me for years I needed to read this book, as has Pastor Hill.
For whatever reason, this last time Pastor told me I should read it, I decided to finally go ahead and do it.
At times, the writing got a little flowery and overdone for my tastes, but the stories themselves were really interesting.
With the parishoners (and Pastors) who found themselves in error on doctrine, it was interesting to see that I could identify so many other denominations in the errors...
I found myself putting notes in my books noting "Presby" or "Meth"...
Enjoyable read.
Whilst it took me a little while to get into and to "adjust" to the Scandinavian background (of which I must admit I have very limited knowledge), I thoroughly enjoyed this book and do highly recommend it to fellow Pastors.Admittedly (and naturally) it has a strong Lutheran emphasis - but as a Lutheran Pastor, I did enjoy that :)It was inspiring, thought-provoking, challenging and so much more. I found it very easy to relate to the various characters even given the cultural and time period differences.I have much to dwell upon - which is good! :)
"God is mightier than all the evil in the world." - Britta Torvik, a character in this powerful spiritual novel.So glad I read it this month. I was turned onto "The Hammer of God" by this post:http://blogs.thegospelcoalition.org/j...
Good stories with appropriate law and gospel. Rare combination
Good read overall.
It was to these he was now sent, and he would go forth in the power of God.” –Bo GiertzInherent Sinfulness However, Giertz ultimately uses his character Savonius to argue for the acceptance of sin as wholly undefeatable.
To which Savonius replies: “Then God feels so much more deeply.” This is the first volley that Giertz fires across the bow of the conscience-driven life, which volley turns into an all out assault by the end of the novel.
Three novellas of three Lutheran parish priests in various times and places in Sweden. Themes of revival, grace, love, sufficiency of God Word and faithfulness of God’s work in people’s lives, including parish priests. Involves stories and relationships showing life’s growing pains and Gospel’s transforming power and beauty. Some of the political and religious contexts of the novellas may be obscure to some. Very relevant to current or former pastors, but beneficial to any wrestling with the mundane-ness of Christianity and the lure of neo-revival, antinomian illusions of truth and freedom.
Though written decades ago, many of the same struggles still continue in the broader church. Though fiction, the author writes from deep personal experiences for seeing the kingdom of God advance. I greatly appreciate the high view of the Church and the optimistic view of the future guided by our loving God.
Well worth reading for the insights into theology and the Christian life. Great practical illustrations of the various ways we fall into error and the way the spirit of the age influences the thinking of the church. I found it hard to get through because it was written in such a boring manner. Maybe it was better in the original language.
This is a wonderful story about the transformation of three young ministers who serve the same church of over a 100 year period. It speaks to the grace of God as he uses churches & ministries to conform pastors into the image of Christ. This book is well worth the time & effort to read.
An excellent novel--actually a collection of three novellas--about "the cure of souls" in 19th- and 20th-century Lutheran Sweden. Basically, three young pastors serving at different times in the same parish discover the pastoral power of justification; i.e., that one's standing before God does not depend on the quality or quantity or constancy of one's own faith but on Christ the object of one's faith ("I know  whom  I have believed ...").Very highly recommended! At least read one of the three parts. Leland Ryken, I seem to recall, called this "the best Christian novel you've never heard of."
An Excellent book to go through 10 years later. It is one that touches upon many of the topics that Pastors and Lutheran Laity run into. Why is it that Pietism is no good for the Christian faith? Check out this book.
Three novellas in a single book: each follows a pastor from a subsequent generation at the same parish. Such a great book. Excellent storytelling combined with good doctrine, relatable characters, and an important reminder that our world today is not so different from that of the past.
A little hard to start, but glad I stuck with it. A story that gives light to how grace impacts its characters lives. Creative and encouraging pictures/descriptions of grace, good for the heart and soul.
An incredible and moving novel of God's grace.
hands down the best and most unusual religious book i've read--plan to read more stuff by Mr. Bo
Practical applications of the Law/Gospel distinctions in a well-written fictional story that spans three generations.
InterestingInterest in view of the other side of being a minister in the Swedish Lutheran perspective. A view on pastoral soul searching as well.
A surprising find. I thought these were well-written stories powerful at communicating theological truth. I enjoyed reading these.
