https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255370.Complete_Ghost_Stories
Please note, this is a review of this particular edition of "Complete Ghost Stories" by M.R. James.
**For those who love "real books" and cannot bear the thought of ereaders, or those who prefer to have a few "nice editions" of classics, this series may be just perfect.
It has been very difficult to let this one go in favour of my kindle version!The five stars is for this particular edition of the book, although some of M.R. James's stories do merit 5 stars themselves.
**If you would like to read my reviews either of collections of stories by M.R. James, or of particular individual stories, please see my shelves for these.
An unexpected gift from a friend: a beautifully written book that's been beautifully published. It's a profound pleasure just to hold it in your hands. Take that, Kindle!
R. James - http://ow.ly/vXC7Z & http://ow.ly/vXCaw Y si el señor Gregory se despertó una o dos veces en las primeras horas de la madrugada y le pareció oír una especie de manoteo en la parte inferior de su puerta, no fue, quizá, sino lo que lógicamente podía esperar un hombre pacífico, súbitamente sumergido en una cama extraña y en el corazón de un misterio.
R. James en sus cuentos, sino más bien criaturas de carnalidad deforme, crisálidas acechantes, latentes y tenebrosas, presencias póstumas que surgen de venganzas, maldiciones o pactos demoníacos.
After graduating from Stine’s “Goosebumps” books in high school, I quenched my thirst for more horror lit by a steady dose of readings from Poe, Lovecraft, King, and of course, James.
Montague Rhodes James is perhaps one of my favorite horror writers back then, even if I’ve only read one anthology of his writings.Complete Ghost Stories is a good tome of macabre literature.
James’ equation lies stark naked on the pages of this book and is present in all his stories, like identical skeletons jutting out of the fleshes of plots.
If you are going to read only one author of the classic English ghost story, make it M.R. James - and buy this book, because it will give you all of his great stories in one place, ready whenever you're in the mood for a good Victorian/Edwardian chill.
I read this book every October (perfect time of year for it), and I'm always amazed by James' gifts as a writer in this genre - he is really, really good, and a pleasure to read almost as much for his grace with the English language as he is for his scary-yet-gentlemanly imagination.
He flew out of his chair with deadly inconceivable terror at his heart."The art of telling a ghost story is a refined one and Montague Rhodes James was a master of it.
I am enjoying the stories very much indeed and gradually falling in love with M.R. James himself ...
who seems to be the very picture of nerdly lore who would be much appreciated today.FINISHEDI finished this some time ago but forgot to mark it done.
I enjoyed these stories very much.
They are gentler, for the most part, than today's ghost stories but some are absolutely horrifying.
M.R James, I think after reading this book is a very good writer.
Stories such as 'Oh, Whistle, I'll Come to You My Lad' , 'Casting the Runes and 'A Warning to the Curious show his ability as a writer.
I think he has a really good ability to 'show' and not tell the reader what is happening.
Overall, I liked this book and I'm glad I decided to read it in October.
I found them difficult to read but I still kept with them.If you like ghost stories, then I recommend this book.
Si no fuera suficiente con la cuidada edición de Valdemar: primorosa, detallista, agradable al tacto y a la vista —¡qué pena no ser millonario para comprar toda la colección!—, y con una traducción elegante y respetuosa con el tono algo sabihondo, perdón, erudito del original; hallaremos además que el relleno de estas pastas es especialmente sabroso y tentador.
Encontraremos relatos de terror muy modernos, esmerados y que nos transportarán a un mundo que muchos ni oleremos de lejos jamás gracias a una ambientación impecable, llena de minuciosos pormenores, que nos traslada directamente a todos los rincones en los que Manolo Ramón ha visto algo relacionado con lo sobrenatural.
5th September 2010I revisited this old favourite after many years, I first read James at the age of fifteen and hid under the blankets afraid to turn off the light.
Coming back for a second time I still find that fearful enjoyment in his stories even though there is less gore that we have become used to in recent years both on t.v. and in books.
Casting The Runes was one that came straight back in to my mind as I started to read and he manages to conjure up such a chilling atmosphere in an empty church that I will need to look over my shoulder next time I visit one.
Recommended as one of the classic authors of ghost stories, I first became aware of James' work when I saw Jonathan Miller's film 'Whistle And I'll Come To You', adapted from one of his stories.
The typical James story doesn't deal with the horror directly, oddly enough; the story is often told by a narrator twice or more times removed from the action.
So you get a story told by the author who heard it from a school friend, who pieced it together from the stories of two different people, etc.
But the stories are almost always chilling and moody, and just the thing for fans of the classic ghost stories.
4/5Me ha gustado mucho este pequeño libro y seguro que volveré a leer algo de M. R. James. Desde luego no son las historias de fantasmas más originales que haya leído, pero los juegos con los narradores y la tensión e intriga que consigue imprimir a las historias hace que las devores para querer saber cómo acaban. Sin duda tuvo que ser una buena influencia para Lovecraft, he visto mucho de él en estas historias.
This guy is a genius, and this book is a great example of how a great author can essentially write the same short story over and over and still make them compulsively readable. "Oh Whistle and I'll Come To You, My Lad" gets all the press, but I think there are a lot of stories at least its equal in the collection, including "Canon Alberic's Scrapbook", "Casting the Runes", "Count Magnus" (much of which was lifted for a John Bellairs novel whose title I can't remember) and "The Ash Tree".


The ones in "Ghost Stories of an Antiquary" were probably the best balance.
The writing overall is good, with a sense of humor showing through, particularly in the introductory sections of the stories.
I became aware in reading this that it used to be a tradition to tell ghost stories at Christmas time.
I guess before Halloween got to be a big thing?
It somewhat makes sense, given that it's the darkest time of the year, but it seems such a mismatch now that Halloween has taken over the scary stuff.
M.R. James is a renowned ghost story/ gothic/ horror writer. Some of the stories here are great, some are just okay, and pretty much all stick to the same themes and tropes that made Victorian/Edwardian gothic literature so distinct. He was incredibly influential on later writers, so James isn't a bad start if you're looking to understand western horror's roots, and the mechanics of a good, scary story.
brilliant short stories that are actually creepy - the notion of the 'thing from another place' that has sentience but is unlike anything known to man/behaves in a way that has no seemingly obvious logic or rationale. In short the lovecraftian - it all comes from james
Really terrific stories.
ভূতের গলপ লেখাটা যে একটা কতবড় শিলপ তার সাকষাৎ পরমাণ এই গলপগুলো
ভূতের গল্প লেখাটা যে একটা কতবড় শিল্প তার সাক্ষাৎ প্রমাণ এই গল্পগুলো
Considering these stories were written much after all those gothic Le Fanu/Poe/Stoker, they shouldn't have been this "lame". Quite disappointed with the stories.
En realidad solo he leído 14 relatos (más o menos la mitad) y me han gustado, pero para leerlos del tirón es demasiado, me satura. Me gustan mucho las historias de fantasmas de James, a veces te habla a ti como lector para explicar algo. Y todas son bastante originales.
My cursory research into the masters of the ghost story form soon divulged the name of one Montague Rhodes James.
H.P. Lovecraft named him a 'modern master' of horror, and as the latter is to date my sole reference point for short horror stories, I read James through that lens.
Reading Lovecraft can at times feel like wading through a treacle of heavy-handed 'eldritch' this and 'inconceivably ancient' that.
He was, in short, a master of subtlety.He also exercised his scholar’s vocabulary in a manner which feels natural to him and not as the forced floridity which Lovecraft at times displayed.
He also enjoyed scaring the crap out of people.James is lauded for his ghost stories - perhaps the best-known of which is "Oh Whistle and I'll Come to You, My Lad".
Dark psychological tales, yes, and a Freudian glimpse into the psyche of the author - a man who spent his life among boys and who seems to have retained his own childish sensibility for better or worse - they're also an interesting look at the vanished world of the British upper classes and of academia in the rarified atmospheres of Eton and Cambridge just about a century ago, and still well worth perusing.
I've recently re-read many of James' stories on my Kindle as they are in the public domain and freely available, but I was excited to get this hardback collection to have something tangible and to hand down to my kids to ignite their imagination once they are old enough.The book itself is very nicely bound, and is tiny - smaller in length and width than the average mass-market paperback, but at almost 600 pages the depth of the book is quite a wedge.
It's the perfect time of year to once again read the master of English ghost-stories.
And concerning that this is my third book of these kind and as much as the other ones really couldn't get me, maybe its really me...I don't know.I have read before Dickens Ghost Stories and The best Ghost Stories ( which included one or two of Dickens tellings again) and they weren't my books.
But because I bought them all together at once ( so I still have one left, Irish Ghost Stories - which I also will read, maybe this one will knock me off my feet) of course I would all of them give a chance.I have to say, despite I gave Dickens two out of five as well, M.R.James really scared me more.
Hoooooo boy.
On the one hand, the seeds of many of these stories are excellent.
"Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, Lad," "Count Magnus," "A School Story," and "The Treasure of Abbot Thomas" are all quite good.
Not so great.
(Lovecraft had a similar problem.) Not only that, but some of the stories are so...
Something that really bugged me was the fact that every narrator is a middle-class educated Briton.
Middle to upper-middle class.
It's not that this was bad--the stories I mentioned are all amazing.
They are mechanically-sound ghost stories, with no...let's say...spirit to them.
Na verdade eu acabei este livro faz tempo, mas só agora vi que não o tinha finalizado aqui.
R. James, porque o horror nele é implícito, é mais de atmosfera que de fatos, e seus protagonistas são pessoas que já quase não se vêem mais, ou que andam se escondendo: estudiosos e céticos não radicais - gente que teria nojo da ATEA.
Aliás, este é um livro que as editoras que pedem subscrições na internet podiam se atrever a lançar; não venderia pilhas, mas seus compradores e leitores serão todos gente da melhor qualidade.
Simply astounding. This volume would be worth reading just for the historical/literary value these stories have in regards to horror and fantastic literature, but it's also one of the most impressive collection of ghost stories ever, if not the best one. Some of the tales remain after more than a century genuinely terrifying, "Oh whistle and I'll come to you" being one of the creepiest read I have had in a while.If you are into ghost stories and fantastic literature in general, this is a must-read!
Me gustaron la mayoría de estos cuentos, sin embargo, yo de este libro recomiendo los siguientes: el grabado, el fresno, la habitación número 13, el conde Magnus, silba y acudiré, la rosaleda, el cercado de Martín, un episodio de la historia de una catedral, panoramas de la colina, una velada junto al fuego, había un hombre que vivía junto a un cementerio, cuando anochece en el parque y el pozo de las lamentaciones.
Just finished this, and I'm still unsure of my opinion. I don't think I really liked it as much as 4 stars, but I liked it MORE than only three stars, if that makes any sense. Some of the stories were truly chilling, others were very neat and clever ideas, and some just kinda bounced off my head. Still an important voice in the development of the ghost story, however.
