https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252454.Richard_Halliburton_s_Complete_Book_of_Marvels
I can totally imagine some nerdy little kids of yesteryear poring intently over this tome, memorizing its factual information and dreaming of visiting these marvellous dams, bridges, and geographic features.
This delight in factual information is especially impressive in an individual so outdoorsy and adventurous, as these qualities are not often found together.
This book made a generation of children dream of travel and adventure.
What attraction could these figures and grainy black and white photos* hold in the era of wikipedia and (in color!) travel documentaries?*Halliburton was actually a pretty good photographer; the cheap reproductions in this book don't do his work justice.
This is the third book I received from my father for my tenth birthday along with The Good Master and The Singing Tree, both by Kate Seredy...
So I will leave you with the insciption my father left me on the frontispiece: "When I was a young boy, I acquired my love of travel and adventure by reading--and one of the most exciting books I ever read was this one.

One day my sister calls home and talks to Dad, who knows none of this, and gives him the message that she found the book Mom was looking for, the "Complete Book of Marvels".
It's an amazing book that's just teeming with a sense of wonder about the world.(A caveat: Halliburton was a well-to-do white man living in the opening decades of the 20th century, and he occasionally displays many of the attitudes common to white Western men of the day.
Halliburton sits on top of the Golden Gate Bridge, and there is no road far below, as it's still under construction. An amazing look at the world through the eyes of a worldwide traveler in the 1930s.
As a kid I adored this book. It still colors the way I see the world. I wish I could remember who gave it to me.
I LOVED THIS BOOK!Which is all the more amazing because this was one of my mom's favorite & treasured childhood books, and she always wanted my sister and me to read it when we were kids.
It became family shorthand for lovingly attempting & failing to force something on someone.Now I have no idea why I never gave it a chance while I was a kid, but 30-some years later - so good!!!
It's also such an amazing snapshot of a point in time - when someone could travel so widely and explore both ancient sites as well as see the construction of new ones (the Golden Gate Bridge and Hoover Dam!).
Amazing descriptions of visiting places all around the world. I wish this had been my geography and history textbook growing up. I'm enjoying it as much as my boys.
Five stars with a caveat: both my son and I found the chapter on Timbuctoo (entitled "The Slave City") quite disturbing - Halliburton and his friend buy two child slaves to keep off the bats that have been driving them crazy during their stay in the city.
It did provoke some discussion, but I am still not sure if it was worth the distress.
There are a few other instances of racist ideas that are easily edited if reading aloud.
In general it is a beautiful mix of fact and story that will take you to places you may never be able (or brave enough!) to go in person.
This is not a children's book, but it was the book that my father read to my brother and me every night for what seemed like years during my childhood. I have the best memories of this book -- though my memories are more about being cuddled up with my dad and brother on my brother's bed than they are about the adventures Halliburton describes.
Written for a young audience, this book is about travel to fifty-five special destinations throughout the world, and the history of each place as well as a thorough description, just as though you were actually there. The book was written in the years between the world wars, and the author shows the genuine respect he had for whatever culture he was visiting.
A reread from childhood. This was a favorite book growing up. My 6th grade teacher read it to us and I fell in love with the stories and adventures.
Richard Halliburton traveled all over the world through the 1920's and 1930's, scaled mountains, swam the length of the Panama Canal, participated in pilgrimages and ceremonies most outsiders were not welcome to, and had a great respect and interest in cultures and customs.
His travel books were a sensation in his time, and although some of the content is out-of-date, it is very interesting to get a glimpse of what these places were like before becoming tourist traps.His writing style is engaging; not only does he let the reader experience traveling to Lhasa (where the dalai lama lives), but also has a story or a legend about the place or the people who have lived there.
He describes a travel route from place to place, allowing the reader to follow rivers, seas, mountains, etc.
I'm 68 years old and I'm reading this book again to see if it conjures up the fascination it did when I first read it at age 10 or reread it at age 12.
Halliburton was truly gifted in making faraway and historical places come alive in a style that could appeal to children and adults.
What marvels would he have found in the world of the 1970's?
I keep trying to think of the wonders of today's world and wish there was a Halliburton to make them as interesting and exciting as the marvels of ancient times and the world of the 30's.
Why wasn't this book a part of my childhood? This 1960 reissue would have been perfect. What a great travelogue, and the pictures are spectacular. Of course, the world has certainly changed since the book was written. The addition of a section at the end, about Halliburton's last ill-fated adventure (sailing a Chinese Junk from Hong Kong to San Francisco - all hands lost at sea) was fascinating and sad and eerie.
Ely and I have been reading this book before bed for months. We finally finished tonight. The book concludes with a tragic coda comprising letters, columns and cables from his ill-fated attempt to cross the Pacific in a Chinese junk in 1939. He has a wonderful writing tone. Nice work for a boy from Memphis. My grandparents gave this copy to my dad in 1970 as a graduation present from college.
My seventh grade English teacher had very old copies of the two-volume set at the back of the classroom. We were allowed to read from her library when we had free time, and these were the books I gravitated toward. Such adventures! Many years later I found this complete book on Alibris and immediately bought it. Halliburton's adventures still enthrall me.
This is an interesting book, even though some of the wonders of the world Sir Halliburton went in search of are long gone or well-known today. When he went on this journey, traveling was not as easy as it was today. His writing portrays that derring-do of so many of his fellow countrymen as he goes in search of the ancient wonders of the world, and he doesn't disappoint.
My Literature professor in a Great Books class brought this in one day. I looked at it for about 10 seconds and knew I had to have one. I have since bought a copy for my own bookshelves as well as copies for friends. The easy to read and enchantingly written first hand accounts that accompany the amazing pictures in this collection make it a great read and a very good conversation piece.
I read this astonishing book, one with great black and white photos of Yosemite and other places, at the age of ten. I wish I hadn't lost it. Grab a copy and enjoy.Also, this was one of a handful of books in our house, a place in a small town in Michigan.
Being read stories from this book over and over by my mother when I was a little girl planted in me a love of adventure and travel. It's a seed I'm still watering and letting grow and grow into a life of exploring.
I read this fun book when I was a kid. The photos of Yosemite, the Panama Canal and other places inspired me, made me want to travel to these places. Years later, while visiting Yosemite, something I did several times, I felt as I was living out a dream.
My dad suggested this to me when I was about 12 or 13. I was absolutely captivated by Mr. Halliburtons' adventures (like swimming the locks of the Panama Canal - since everything goes through the locks based on weight I think he had to pay all of a quarter or less.)
My grandmother gave me this book years ago. I really enjoyed it and have somehow misplaced it so I could never quite remember the title or author's name! Somehow, doing a google search for class (yes, it really was classwork), I came across a reference to this book and voila! Here it is!
This is a two book set that covers travels around the world before WWII. He even refers to WWI as "the great war". I have read these over and over and they never get dull. Best travel books I've ever read
halliburton is one of the greatest adventure travelers and takes his audience, aimed at children, but good for anyone, along for the ride (1937). the narrative is interesting and amusing with refreshingly breathless prose. a truly wonderful read.
So far so good. It is interesting to read about all of the most wonderful places on the planet, and to hear stories from their past. It is also awesome to hear of all the places one would otherwise hear little or nothing about, which are really quite fascinating.
I read this for the first time when I was 12 or 13. It lit an interest in the world. I made a special point of visiting Carcasonne in France because of this book.
My favorite book of all times.
Fun book of travel with interesting history.
