https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/993615.Psychology
Update:-Failed the first sit for the exam of part A-BUT I ACED THE RESIT AND PASSED THE FIRST PART OF THE COURSE-Had the first sit of part B yesterday, but it was extremely easy so I think(???) I passed!
An extremely useful psychology book.
Depending upon what level of psychology you are taking this book will be varying levels of helpful, but as a whole it is a brilliant reference point.Covering a large number of subareas within psychology (evolutionary, cognitive, perception, neurobiological, social, to name but a few) you’re sure to find something detailing what you’re looking for.
If you are looking for a specific area of psychology I would only recommend this solely as a starting point as this is more of an introduction read rather than a book to enrich you to the point of information overload.
Certainly one of the best psychology books out there.
reading it right now, taking the psych subject GRE on Nov. 3rd.
i am very, very old, and also own the glietman i used in intro to psych, the fourth edition.
sometimes i wish i had done all this test prep, applications, whatever, right after undergrad, but then i read that 25% of recent college graduates are functionally illiterate, and i realize that, i, with my highly fuunctional vague quasi-literacy, now shine like a magic saphire cachobon on the headwrap of a punjab in some victorian hankie-twister.
Read cover to cover for Psych GRE. I would recommend getting a more up to date edition if you considering a similar course of action.
First chapter on scientific methods was interesting and informative, but for those into sciences, quite redundant.The second chapter which introduced evolutionary psychology was full of interesting examples and even more interesting analysis of the same. Sometimes the analysis seemed somewhat of an oversimplification, but it was convincing to a large extent nonetheless. My favourites: the "broken wing act" by Killdeer birds, the arguments about jealousy in men vs women about their partners' 'other friends', why men and women have different criterion for their mates, and the data about intelligence and how much of it comes from genes.
i read a text book
A classic text that's also a fun read.
I had to read this as part of a course, and I ended up actually really liking it. I found it very interesting. :)
A great classic text book for anyone interested in Psychology. Build the concept right from scratch to details.
