https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3387907-the-path-of-the-king
Forest Gump-style, each descendant has close relations to a significant historical figure or event (Joan of Arc, St Bartholomew Massacre, Abe Lincoln, etc.) You really have to know your history for it to make sense, though.This would go well for high schoolers studying Western European history, into the New World.The theme is really fascinating - kingly traits rise and fall in a lineage over time, sometimes falling into the gutter, other times peaking in a significant person who shapes history.There is a strong anti-democracy point at the end - that nations and men need leadership from kings.
RichCan be a bit verbose in parts but by in large a good book on the effect of legacy. A nice way to spend a quiet autumn s beggining
A very interesting book, and somewhat different from the other John Buchan books I have recently read.
This is actually a series of stories, loosely connected, starting in Scotland before the Normans arrived and involving the people who where in conflict with their Scandinavian cousins.
It ends in America with the aftermath of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
In the journey from the start to the end we visit various historical events and figures, such as France and Joan of Arc.I found the trip a very interesting one, especially for the author's take on events of the times and the characters involved.
The action starts in Viking Scotland, through Norman England, Flanders, the Crusades of the Middle East, France (Joan of Arc), England again, North of England during the Jacobite Rebellion etc This fictitious account perfectly sets the scene with the language and is interesting as a snapshot of history.
Some moral dilemmas are dealt with -should Charles I be tried by a jury, no precedent, should you betray your friends, and how difficult it is get out of the squalor and deprivation you are born into.
A brilliant story moving through generations of the same family through their ups and downs looking at how some people are born to greatness. A surprisingly easy read, given some of the language used.
Some stories better than others, but on the whole, very good.
