https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140090.Three_Bedrooms_One_Corpse
This series is consistently getting 3 stars from me. It's a quick, fun read and a good cleansing book that I don't have to concentrate on to hard. I still think Aurora is kind of unfeeling and pretty selfish at times. I did enjoy this book much better than the the second one where the romance was really flat. She sure does go through the guys for someone who doesn't date much!
This is your warning.While there are elements to this story that I do like, I'm greatly annoyed with two main points.
Firstly, if you run a realty company and stuff has been stolen from the houses you are selling for TWO YEARS, why do you not have better security of the keys?
Even when women start to be murdered in the houses you are selling, you don't think to have your realtors at least sign out the keys?
In the case of the owner still living there, they are the ones who have access to the keys and the realtors only show the houses when the owners are home.
I’m not sure why, but it does.Fun fact!
I guess they do like to make Charlaine Harris books into television series or movies.Fun Fact!
The first book in the series ‘Real Murders’ was nominated for Best Novel 1990 for the Agatha Awards.
Fun fact!
Fun fact!
Aurora Teagarden – count as official first series of Charlaine Harris.
So before Sookie there was – Aurora Teagarden, a 28-year old, professional librarian, the one who both read and in a way solved murder cases.
Okay, so these are not FUN fact.
These are just facts.
I thought this one was great! It was fun to watch Roe fall hopelessly in love, even if there was a point where he was suspected of murder. I look forward to the 4th book, which I will be reading soon.
By the looks of things, Roe has found the one she intends to keep—but nothing is sure with Harris’ characters, so I will undoubtedly read the next book!I like that Aurora is a little more independent that she is willing to give herself credit for.
One does have to suspend disbelief over the number of murders that Roe runs into in such a small community—not that murders don’t occur in towns, but they do seem to be rather more numerous in Lawrenceton than one would truly expect outside of the city.
Maybe the fourth one will be better? probably not lol I'm going to take the fourth one back to the library and I might pick it up again eventually. I still enjoyed the first two books and I still think Charlaine is an awesome writer.
Aurora is a great character. She is smart, curious and a fantastic friend. So when a local realtor is found dead in a sale home, she can’t help but try and solve the mystery.Added to this book is a new romance angle with the meeting of Aurora and Martin being an almost “love at first sight” but written in a way that had me laughing. (Not soppy or sugary sweet!) Martin is such an interesting character, but we really know nothing about him. Can’t wait to find out more in book four :)
You know, I was all into this book...
In the last book in the series, Roe contemplated writing him a letter while he was in another country, telling him she was interested in seeing him again.
And she was dating the preacher at the time.Then, she meets a woman who will be perfect for the preacher, and just GIVES UP?
And then assumes he's going to know, without her telling him, them not even having "the talk"??
They hint around at about everyone, including the "new guy" that Roe VERY suddenly started sleeping with, and then dating...
Not this time.Maybe in the next novel?
Sometimes it pays to read several books in a series before deciding not to read more.
I didn't care much for the first book in this series, and thought I wouldn't read any more.
However, I forgot about that and listened to the second book--now I'm hooked.
Aurora Teagarden has become an interesting character that I want to follow.
In this book she once again gets involved in a mystery as she finds a corpse in a house she is showing.
Her love life takes an interesting turn, too; so I am looking forward to the next book.
A good cozy mystery
I love this Author, but I thought this book was average.
I pretty much forgot everything about the first two books in this series over the years, but didn't remember them overly impressive.
Now this one I definitely enjoyed - Martin is a dreamboat and I loved the twists and turns on a personal level.
The book does have her house hunting and other stuff so some may see this as downtime, but Harris tends to write about everyday life routines well in all her stories.
Personally I didn't have any issue staying involved with the story, and small doses of humor helped.
Harris does what she does best here--gives us a lovable, flawed, yet charming character in Aurora Teagarden, whom we can root for, identify with, and, most importantly, care about. The mystery is a fun, cozy romp. I'll read more in this series.
Roe is definitely growing on me. I am enjoying her story, and am ready to read more.
Are the heroines in mystery books always THIS STUPID?
Because I'm smart but not like genius smart, and compared to me, Roe is a dumb-bum.
At least that's how I felt by the end of this book.Seriously DO NOT CHASE DANGER.
CALL THE DAMN POLICE!Also this book made me feel like I'd been banished to adverb hell for awhile.
The dialogue tags almost always had an adverb to explain further what the words meant (because apparently understanding the words themselves means you are a genius like me).
Almost gave it lower star-age for the sheer stupid behavior of Roe near the end of the book.
Too many inconsistencies with this one. I might be over this series now...
It’s the same old same old with this one, and it’s safe to say I will not be continuing on with the series.
A love life, might I add, which seems to go against the character of Roe. It’s as though Harris had one idea in mind for her character yet decided things would be more interesting if she went in a different direction.
Through trying to get these things to match up the mystery in the novels takes a backseat.As a whole, it’s one of my least favourite mystery series to date.
Another light and entertaining cozy mystery by Charlaine Harris. 3rd in the series and not my last one to read. Aurora Teagarden is a delightful character who seems to attract murder and mayhem in her life. She also has a knack for solving the crime in a simple yet elegant way. Thumbs up for this series!
The more I read this series, the more I enjoy it. This was a fun one to try to figure out.
Another light and enjoyable adventure with Aurora Teagarden. I enjoy the humor the author manages to include to give us laughs throughout the story. The most entertaining part of this book is the cat's visit to the vet!
Aurora Teagarden is trying to decide if she wants to go in to her mother's real estate business by going with her to house showings. The first showing they find a dead woman in a bedroom, which proves that it has something to do with the real estate world. Aurora gets involved in helping solve the murder and her new relationship. An interesting book in the Teagarden series.
This was the third in the Teagarden series.Aurora is asked to show a house for her mother.
The only good thing to come from the situation was that Aurora met Martin.
The two of them practically fall in love at first sight.But, despite Roe's love life changing for the better ( at least it appears that way), the whole town is on edge.
When another murder takes place, Roe starts to take action.I found myself as caught up in Roe's love life as I did the murder mystery .
January 2018 was my second reading of this.
I decided to re-read it because I am going through the Aurora Teagarden mysteries.Aurora is trying her hand at real estate, working for her mother.
A second real estate agent is murdered and Aurora is out to find the identity of the murderer.She also meets Martin Bartel in this book and immediately sparks fly and there is chemistry between the two.
Finding these two bodies is one of the things that turns Aurora off to becoming a real estate agent.
does not seem her thing.I enjoyed the budding romance between Aurora and Martin.
Don't know how I somehow managed to skip rating/marking the second book as read?! This series is a fast read, Roe is kind of a weirdo (and not that likeable sometimes - almost like a stone age Sookie Stackhouse negative 2.0!), and I think I like the movies on Hallmark's Movies & Mysteries Channel better than the books...which I feel like a traitor admitting. But there it is, not that I won't read them all anyways.
Better than the first two, but the mystery was deeper & wrapped up a little to fast. There was too much explanation at the end, not enough investigation. Found the killer & they spewed all, wrapping it all up too neatly. Otherwise, it was a better book. The characters are better developed & the writing seems tighter.
Another brilliant Aurora Teagarden mystery
Another intriguing Aurora Teagarden mystery.
That vibe has unfortunately colored my perception of the series and, as often happens, the over-hyping has made me somewhat disappointed in it.
That being said, I love the mysteries in these books.
For the most part this series is full of 4-stars worth content, but since I guessed the killer before I hit the half-time in this book, I was groaning too much because Aurora wasn't catching it that I can't give it more than 3.
That, plus the fact that I might not like Aurora but she's definitely (unfortunately) easy to identify with, will keep me reading (or listening, I suppose).
Throughout the book, Roe and Martin try to solve the mystery while their love for one another grows stronger.
Maybe your arm, too.”, which shows us how bad Roe had gotten beaten up while trying catch Franklin.
I feel Charlaine Harris’ book, Three Bedrooms, One Corpse connects with her Harper Connelly series.
I think it’s funny how in An Ice Cold Grave, which is apart of the Harper Connelly series, and Three Bedrooms, One Corpse, both Harper and Roe get attacked which leads to the outcome of the book.
Loved this novel I like the fact I had no clue who the murderer was actually thought it was someone else. I absolutely love roe as a character ❤ however I'm slightly disappointed who she is seeing I can't put my finger on why that is but maybe there is a reason. Never want this series to end I always have connections with charlaine Harris main characters I feel part of their world. Like always Roe is at the center of danger when she figures out who murdered the women and puts her own life at ris
Loved this novel I like the fact I had no clue who the murderer was actually thought it was someone else.
I absolutely love roe as a character ❤️ however I'm slightly disappointed who she is seeing I can't put my finger on why that is but maybe there is a reason.
Never want this series to end I always have connections with charlaine Harris main characters I feel part of their world.
Like always Roe is at the center of danger when she figures out who murdered the women and puts her own life at risk.
In the third Aurora Teagarden mystery, Aurora is trying out working in real estate with her mother. When showing a house to a perspective client, they find the body of another real estate agent.It's all fun and games from then on, with more bodies, a new boyfriend for Roe, not to mention danger.I am really loving this series. Book 4 is on order at the library.
Good read, lots of action and two murders to solve. Roe is a a natural born sleuth and solves the crimes with lots of danger involved. Martin comes to her rescue and they become engaged while she is healing in the hospital.
