https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19807.The_Glory_and_the_Dream
This two-volume book was one of my first non-fiction reads. I read everything written by William Manchester for the next six months.Up to that point, I had read only historical fiction. I had not had any formal education since the sixth grade, and because of books, such as this, I have been able to educate myself. I am a mother of grown children and I am currently a freshman attending University. Life!!!
WHAT IT IS: A left-leaning "narrative history" of the United States from 1932-72.WHAT I LEARNED: I learned what I already knew from the Preacher in Ecclesiastes: "...
An oil spill off of Santa Barbara in 1969 could be this year's Gulf of Mexico oil spill -- along with the determination that this is going to change the way we do things.
Then the petroleum industry began applying pressure.")WHAT I LIKED (WITH RESERVATIONS): William Manchester uses details to bring history to life, particularly the major events.
I only wish he were around to write a narrative history of the United States from 1972-2012.
Beginning with the advent of the Roosevelt administration in 1932 William Manchester chronicles the cultural history of America through the subsequent four decades ending with the beginning of the second Nixon administration.
Through all those years Manchester highlights the events that animated the American people and had a profound impact on life in America.
For those readers, like myself, who experienced some of those events (the fifties and sixties in my case) the book becomes an interesting blend of history and nostalgia.
I'm not sure it's possible to adequately review a 1300+ page narrative history of the middle of the 20th Century. So I'm not sure I'm going to try.This book however is a beautiful skeleton. On it I will hang Atkinson's "Liberation" trilogy, Halberstam's "The Fifties," "The Children," and "The Best and the Brightest," "All the King's Men," and "All the President's Men." If you want to know what happened in America from 1932 to 1972, this is the place to start.
After reading the sections dedicated to the social histories I would call my parents and ask them about "steelies", "...and little lambs eat ivy", "coonskin hats", etc.The American portraits and period montages were also wonderful additions.
William Manchester's views at the time of writing this history are now being challenged by modern historical viewpoints.
LBJ's legacy appears to be going through a little renaissance today whereas Manchester views are not flattering.3.
A bright beginning with the birth of the Roosevelt administration, a violent supernova type rupture of society through 1966-1968, and the burnout decay through the Watergate years during the Nixon administration.
I can't wait to read more of Manchester's work.
This is so well written. And why wasn't it possible to have someone like William R. Manchester write a student version of this book. I have had this book since I borrowed it from a boyfriend, but now friend of mine in 1981. It took me 25 years to finally get around to reading it. So Bob M, let me know if you want me to mail this back to you. And I guess Bob M, it is out of the question for me to ask if I can borrow the companion book. Just kidding.
The Republican Party still wants to blame the victims of capitalist predation and excess, and that old American exceptionalism(?) and mythology is still going strong - love the rich - hate the poor.
Bernie Sanders is the new FDR and we do need him, but I'm not sure he'd be able to get much done given the divided and fractious state of American political culture.- Wow - seems like Walmart would have been right at home in the economy of the 1930's!- The Republican Right vs FDR was like the Tea Party vs Obama ...
Well, it IS a long book crammed full of interesting stuff.So, we're headed for the election of 1972 and Watergate as the semi-insane Nixon heads for China before he returns to subvert our democracy.
Anyway, it had to end somewhere so the whole unfolding endless Watergate saga is only getting started in this book.
As the book was being rounded into shape the saga continued but Manchester really couldn't into except to refer to the outcome sort of vaguely.
What seems weird to me, as a man a generation or two younger than Manchester, is his emphasis.
I think a man writing in the mid-70s of his generation must have seen these people as really important, in the same way, say, that Barry Goldwater or Adlai Stevenson were important.
But unlike the leaders of the Civil Rights movement, 60s radical didn’t actually succeed in changing our society in any major way (except the feminist movement), nor did they gain temporal power.
His attempt to write an encyclopedic book about everything that happened in America is an overreach, but an honorable one.
As such, it is the most evocative history I have read.
He reports not only on historical events, but on the slang, the culture, the fashion, and the emotion of the time.
This is a charming read, but I am not convinced it is an insightful or even accurate history.
And there were several events which I have read about elsewhere which were either inaccurate or incomplete.
Nonetheless, the book is reasonably balanced in its outlook, a lot of fun to read, and evocative in its prose.
In short, for most of those years, a lot better than the country it reports on.
This is probably the best social history of the United States of America I have ever encountered.
So impressed have I been with this book that I've given it as a gift to several people and will pick up copies of it whenever I chance upon them.
Most particularly this is a great thing to give to anyone over sixty as so much of it will remind them of their own experiences, both private and public.
Note that while a two volume edition is pictured here, the same ISBN applies to a one volume edition as well.

Long was one of the very few men of whom it can be said that had he lived, American history would have been dramatically different.Sometimes when the fire is low and the bourbon just right, the images and lost notes may drift down from the past, evoking memories for those who were then alive of what 1939 was like for a quite ordinary American in that year.
The planks in his presidential platform ere public works, unemployment insurance, minimum wage laws, low cost housing, slum clearance, the five day week, abolition of child labor, health insurance for the aged, civil libertiesThe secret of a good life is to have the right loyalties and to hold them in the right scale of values.
Then we are off to Truman, Korea, Eisenhower, the Fifties, Joe McCarthy, and the dubious rise of Richard Nixon.Manchester's moment-by-moment account of the Cuban Missile Crisis is the most riveting and insightful episode of the book.
Watergate must have been unfolding right before Manchester's eyes as he completed this book, published in 1974.
Still, Manchester credits fully Nixon's achievements in opening China and reaching detente with the Soviet Union.
Where indeed is the "visionary gleam?" Can we regain it.Ironically--and one of Manchester's chief virtues is his eye for irony almost everywhere he looks, the book could almost have been written today.
The book begins with the Bonus March on Washington where Patton and MacArthur led U.S troops against destitute World War I veterans and their families who were seeking early payment of military bonuses.
The book kept my attention throughout (which is saying a lot for a 1400 page book!) and brought back many memories from my distant childhood (school bomb drills, Sputnik, the moon shot, the contraceptive pill, the Vietnam war.) The American story unfolds almost cinematically, each significant event or policy logically leading to the next.
On reflection, I'd guess at least 20 years), which leaves observers of contemporary world events (and politicians themselves) stumbling in the dark.
(It's a long book, 1300 pages, and I've put it down and taken it up more than a few times in the last two or three years.) I was drawn to it because of my interest in history.
Typically my historical tastes tend toward the medieval and ancient, however when I dipped into this at a coffee shop just to kill time I was reminded of the very interesting way Manchester has of taking a range of events and personalities and arranging them so that they can be viewed from a new perspective.
Add to that Manchester's perspective as a participant and often insider in the events he is relating.
I was listening to this book but the recording was bad--skipped like an old record.
The narrator read way too fast and mispronounced 90% of the proper names, including every battle in the Pacific in WWII.
I loved the first part which focused on the Depression.
Manchester's technique is to flood the reader with details and his detail was fascinating on this subject.One has always to remember that this book was written in the 70ies and a lot has happened since then.
We're maybe more interested in the Depression now and less interested in the House Unamerican Activities Committee....
Manchester was a superb historian, and this book was his magnum opus - despite its formidable length, Manchester's storytelling powers never flag, and it's completely engrossing - I recall sitting in a restaurant with tears streaming down my face as he described the reaction to FDR's death, and the funeral.It's hard to believe that the Pulitzer Prize for history went elsewhere for 1974, or for 1968, when Manchester's THE ARMS OF KRUPP was published. Along with David McCullough, the late William Manchester is my favorite popular historian/biographer.
I used to work in this call center on Northwestern's campus. Everyone there was some PhD or grad student making $10 an hour calling people up and conducting surveys. Needless to say, everyone was a self-important blowhard (including me).One guy, who never talked, gave me this book and said, "You'll like this." Man, did I ever. This is the most interesting history book I've ever read. It's breadth and scope are enormous and it carries the interesting prejudices and opinions (which are hardly cliche) of it's author.
This was actually my AP American History book.
Love you Mr. Ring!
I hated it at the time and thought it was boring (1300 pgs).
Something drew me back to this book and I don't even know what.
I decided to give it another try since I don't have to be tested on it this time.
It could be all of the political emphasis out there in the US right now that made me want to revisit our history.
Maybe I can learn something or gain some quick insight before the election.
That is, if I make it past chapter one.
For those of you who slept through modern American History and now feel ignorant, this is a great place to start feeling smart. The book spans those forgotten times between WWI and Watergate, and it is full or really interesting information. Manchester adds details about popular culture, that make history come alive. This is a book i might read again
This book describes life in America from Hoover through Watergate. What is so fascinating is how the events over this time period have shaped the way Americans think and act. It gave me insight to what makes Americans the way we are. It's a slow and at times, a little arduous read but never boring and well worth it.
Un tour de force. Manchester nous mène des émeutes de Washington en 1932 jusqu'aux années 70. Plus qu'une histoire politique américaine, Glory est un voyage dans la société américaine toute entière, ses moeurs, sa culture, son attitude. On est porté par la force du récit, ébloui par la richesse de la recherche, toujours fasciné par cette Amérique qui n'en finit plus de se réinventer.
What a tremendous history! Manchester's overview is no quick read, but its organization, its detail, and its fundamental theme of the battle to achieve America's promise for all of its citizens leaves the reader satisfied that they have truly learned a great deal about the country.
I have bought and given away many copies of Manchester's Narrative American history. This is an excellent introduction to 20th century history. A truly great book, at least for me. I read this sometime in the 1980s.... I don't know for sure because my copy is, again, on loan.
Two points should underscore how great this, and its companion (Volume 2) are:1. I read them twice.2. My wife's grandparents, born in 1915 and 1926, felt Manchester captured the spirit of the times better than any other author they had read.
A history of the U.S. between 1932 and 1972. Well written, informative. A whole lot you didn't know. One of the best overall histories with a wide sweep.
I realized that history written this way is not dull, or tedious. Rather, it is interesting and very personal. I loved the stories in this book. I wished for this book not to end.
Enjoyable social and political history of USA from depression to Nixon. I don't agree with all of his conclusions but no two people will IMHO. Good, long read.
One wishes that another author, somewhere, would pick up where Manchester left off and continue this wonderful narrative.With 1300 pages, a lot of ground can be covered, and it times you forget that you’re reading about 40 years because the author focuses so narrowly on one event, and we become happily immersed.
I’m not reading a book about Harry Truman, am I?” And one almost feels disappointed.A lot of pop culture is discussed as well and many more events that may seem minor in retrospect.
