https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/636223.Ice
“As her fate, she accepted the world of ice, shining, shimmering, dead; she resigned herself to the triumph of glaciers and the death of the world.”  Her hair was a blizzard, a shimmering cascade of pale luminous moonlight. She was fragile as if made of glass and crystal, built like a waif with pallid skin and bruised eyes. She is an ice sculpture carved out of a glacier that is shattered and reassembled time and time again. He needs her, desires her, craves her. He wants to clench the slender b
He wrote: "...this is a kind of writing which simply makes you feel very strange; the way that living in the twentieth century makes you feel, if you are a person of a certain sensibility." I knew after reading only a few pages that I was going to have to read this novel quickly, feverishly, if I had any chance of staying in the boat as I swirled without paddles through the mind of Anna Kavan.
She was a lost girl who became a lost woman, incapable of escaping the ebb and flow of a mind that obviously saw the world differently.
Characters are not given names, and reality is only tasted in fleeting moments, ‘but only as on might recall and incident from a dream.’ Told through the disturbed mind of a narrator who, within the first 10 pages, openly admits to suffering from daytime hallucinations, the reader is forced to be led by the hand through this menacing novel by someone they cannot fully trust.
Kavan uses repetition to its glorious, full potential, constantly reminding us of the vague premises to reinforce their believability and tricking us to perceive something formless as concrete.The elusive nature of the novel serves a secondary purpose beyond misdirection, as it allows the reader to experience the story and settings exactly as the narrator sees and comprehends them.
The narrator provides a fragmented depiction of an isolated country, relatively poor and embroiled in an unspecified global conflict.
The world had become an arctic prison from which no escape was possible, all it creatures trapped as securely as were the trees, already lifeless inside their deadly resplendent armour.There is beauty in Kavan's descriptions of this world, but it's a deadly beauty -- cold, fragmented, unrelenting.
Reading this novel is like being trapped in a labyrinthine nightmare, with no clear sense of what is real and what is a dead end.
If I lived forever, I would read this book 200 times, each time more slowly, bathing in every sentence and unearthing all the glorious subtext which must lie beneath its icebergs.
As it is, with so many books and so little time, I still feel compelled to immediately dive back in.Ice is the only easy read that's also a hard read.
It reads, in many ways, like a movie--a dream-movie.
Ice, however, is literally, actually, like a dream.
This is exactly how I feel having finished the book.
Making it even more disorienting, the point-of-view dips away from first person occasionally, capturing events that happen (maybe?) when he isn’t present, only to snap right back to our protagonist’s perspective as if nothing happened.
Although, maybe he was actually there the whole time, he’s not really sure himself.
It perpetually defies classification.I think Jonathan Lethem says it best in his forward to the 50th anniversary Penguin Classics edition:“The whole presentation is dreamlike, yet even that surface is riven by dream sequences, and by anomalous ruptures in point-of-view and narrative momentum.”Amen to that.
"Gerçeklik benim için her zaman bilinmez nitelikte bir şey olmuştu. Zaman zaman rahatsız edici olabiliyordu bu."  (s.22)Okurken dahi insanı üşüten, titreten bu kitap bir bulmaca! Bir labirent! Nasıl mı?Açıkçası ben kitap hakkında daha önce yazılan yorumların çoğuna katılmıyorum. Yankı Enki'nin 19 Eylül 2014'te bu kitap hakkında yazdığı yorumda;" [...] adını ya da nereden geldiğini bilmediğimiz gizemli bir kahramanın arayış ve yolculuk öyküsünü anlatıyor. Arayışının hedefindeyse bir şey değil, b
Evet bilim kurgu öğeleri var fakat kitabın teması bütünüyle bilim kurgu değil.Oysa Anna Kavan, dikkatli bir okurun gözüne batacak kadar iyi ipuçlarını kitabın her yerine yaymış.
Kitabı okumayanlar lütfen bu kısmı atlasın ve kendi ipuçlarını kendileri arasınlar.(view spoiler)[Kitaptaki dünyanın baş kahramanımızın bilinci ve bilinçaltı içinde sürekli büzülüp genişleyen sürreal bir yolculuk olduğunu 77.
Bu kale benzeri yapı Kartal Yuvası'nda da karşımıza çıkmaktadır.Kahramanımızın iki ayrı kişiliğe sahip olduğunu anlamak için çok detaylı bir irdelemeye gerek yok.
Anna Kavan'ın ipuçları göz önünde:"[...] öyle ki bizden iki tane mi olduğunu merak etmeye başladım."  (s.94) Üstelik burada "iki tane mi olduğunu" kısmı kitapta italik olarak vurgulanmış.Fakat esas ipucu 116.
And those hill roads are dangerous when they’re iced up.’ He seemed to imply that only a fool would drive on under present conditions, which rather annoyed me.
So, cutting short his involved directions, I paid him and drove away, ignoring his last warning shout: ‘Look out for that ice!’I was lost, it was already late December, I had been reading for hours and was practically out of time to finish this novel.
So, cutting short his involved explanations, I turned the page and read on, ignoring his last warning shout: ‘Look out for that distorting lens device!’
I was going to start off by describing this as dream-like, but it's actually a nightmare.The Earth is rapidly covering with ice, a death sentence for its inhabitants.
Kavan, who lived through many tragedies, was in and out of mental institutions for the last 30+ years of her life - for depression, for addiction, and attempted suicide.The book started to make a lot more sense to me once I began reading it through more of a biographical lens.
What if the narrator is actually the part of her trying to act as protector, and the warden is the part that punishes and controls.
This stuff: its a different league altogether.I need to talk about how I dream, if I am to convey the essence here.
The girl herself shifts like an eel in a prism: she’s vulnerable and terrified, she’s an accomplished, heartless temptress the next moment.All along there is a nebulous third character: the Warden.
Every time she vanishes, some real life person has escaped the psycho narrator, so he starts looking for another canvas (person) on which to project again.
The Narrator doesn’t really want the reality of being with the girl: he is transfixed and defined by the chase: perpetual motion so that no time is left to ruminate.
Foreword, by Jonathan Lethem--IceAfterword, by Kate Zambreno
As soon as I started to hear about this book, I knew I had to read it: apocalyptic surrealist pseudo-sci-fi wherein a man seeks a women in a world gradually being engulfed by snow and ice.
Not that female writers are immune to writing from the male gaze, but Kavan's approach to this book suggests that she knew exactly what she was doing here.
This is totally the missing link between Ambrose Bierce and David Lynch, as far as subjective narrative goes....By the way, the excellent cover image for the 1985 Norton hardcover above is scanned from my own ex-library copy.
Harika bir çeviri bekliyor okuru.Kitabı bitirmenin üzerine The Guardian'dan bir makale okudum.
Hissettiğim bu güvensizlik eşsizdi, kitapların dışındaki dünyada bireylerin size hissettirdiği bazı duyguları bir kitap karakterinin bu derece sağlayabilmesi çok güzeldi.
Benim gibi buna aslında katılmayan fakat kitabı bu kategoride aday gösteren kişi, 'önemli olan yazarın eserlerinin okunması için insanları teşvik etmekti' diyerek savunuyor kendini.
Makul bir argüman.Buz, imgesel anlatımın yoğunluğunun hissedildiği, katmanlarıyla sizi saran, zaman kavramını yitirmenize sebep olan, 180 sayfa olsa da belki de 500 sayfalık bir romanın tatminini veren bir kitap.
Bir kadın yazarın, bir erkeğin saplantılarını ve duygularını okurun içinin buz kesmesine sebep olacak şekilde anlatabilmesi, o soğukluğu hissettirebilmesi ise çok büyük bir başarı.
*save as – why_world_why.doc*I have not been reading much lately, mostly due to a perk of my new-ish job being a deluge of free newspapers, both the city and the state rags, with their crosswords forever giving me eyes.
Almost like the book is being a condescending dick and following the newspaper policy of “write to a fifth grade reading level.” Seriously, push on.
If anyone ever dares to try and film this (though that is not necessary; reading this book is like watching a strikingly gorgeous, eerie art film if you have even an inch of imagination), I have some thoughts on the soundtrack.
So yes, this book did make me appreciate a mild climate and also the fact I don’t do drugs (generally).
I can’t imagine contemporary big publishers taking a chance on something that makes so little obvious sense.The great thing about Ice is that you can have fun with it.
One of the first interpretations that came to my mind was that of the Cold War. The brutal reality of that world, military governments, ice plus the fact the book was written in the 60s all seem to fit nicely with this theory.
No colour, only monotonous shades of grey to the ultimate dead white of the snow.
Her hair is the color of moonlight, her skin transparent, she could not stand the intense cold, she shivered continually, broke in pieces like a Venetian glass.The imagery in Ice is of a desolate, harrowing world of mystery, terror and paranoia.
Reality nothing but a desolate landscape, clattering teeth, strangers with hollow eyes, shapeless disorder, a town of sandcastles, wrecked by the tide.The constant victimization of the girl, her weakness, her absolute reliance on those who sadistically torment her, allows us to conceivably understand the utter helplessness that Kavan herself endured during her years of being institutionalized.
Luminous in the DarkEarly on, the male narrator discloses to us,  "Reality had always been something of an unknown quantity to me." It’s hard to tell just how much of a dream, no, a nightmare, this novel is or will become, whether it's a recurrent dream, or whether it is more than that. The girl, his nameless, ageless obsession, the object of his pursuit, is brittle, fragile, shy, elusive, "her skin moonwhite, her face a moonstone, luminous in the dark...her hair was astonishing, silver-white, a
As if that’s not bad enough, a post-apocalyptic Ice Age is fast approaching, the product of a collective death-wish, a fatal self-destructive impulse: "Instead of my world, there would soon be only ice, snow, stillness, death; no more violence, no war, [no] victims; nothing but frozen silence, absence of life." The narrator seeks the resumption of a relationship with the girl ("She was like a part of me, I could not live without her"), in what few days of existence are left.
It also sums up how I felt as I read Anna Kavan's Ice. I felt like I was watching an old analog television tuned to snow.
On its own, the final chapter would make a nice standalone short story.
I read this with my buddy Mary and about halfway through I asked how she was liking it.
She told me how she saw the events arranged, and I gotta admit, if Mary wrote the story the way she described it to me, I think I would have enjoyed it.
Was it worth reading?
dreams and memories (or are they flashbacks?) obtrude into the main story, without warning, without explanation or even without being given a rationale within the context of the other events." So you could forgive me for being apprehensive.But that's not how Ice works.
The ice plays into the agent's dreams and hallucinations, but it's very present during the "real" parts of the book.
Lots of novels try to do this sort of thing and fail miserably; like I've said before, usually the idea of having many different interpretations signals some sort of cop-out.
(Check what was this?) "I was lost." Anna Kavan's Ice spoke to my self destructive side.
There can be no joy, only a soul dark itch scratching from the feel of the blade on the skin.
'Ice' is like staring at unbroken skin and imagining the bleeding.
I'm a little in awe of how Kavan wrote such power in hard and cold ambition of holding the chase always in your own grasp.
Kavan could make me want to watch it to the icey tomb with just one fragile arm.
It's so turned inside out, when it is dark, that the victim could be the perpetrator herself.

“Buz”, benim içimde “buz gibi bir hava” yaratan bir kitap.
Kitabı beğenmedim.Öncelikle kitabın belli bir kurgusu yok, yer ve zaman geçişleri birbiriyle bağlantısız, yazarın bilerek kaotik bir kurgu seçtiği belli.
Kitap bence kesinlikle bilim-kurgu veya distopik bir eser değil.
Siyah evler, siyah giysili adamlar, siyah ağaçlı ormanlar bir tarafta dolu, kar, buz, fiyordlarla beyaz diğer tarafta.Kitap okumak için iki nedenim var, ilki okurken kendimi o roman içinde görmek o anları, uerleri olayları yaşamak diğeri ise yeni bilgiler öğrenmek, yani keyif için ve eğitim için diyebilirim kısaca.
BUZ böyle bir kitap, kaotik, sıradışı ve yorucu.
Fearsome and intense novella about obsession, searching, and war. Kavan writes ruthless things here, about inner desires which consume us and the slow death of the world. To put it bluntly: the windchill is -20 outside right now. She writes how that bitter cold feels.
Not enough to be content with deconstructions any less potent than those of The Left Hand of Darkness but, for worse, those slow and careful methodologies fitted for survival have far too little rapine to appeal to inherent minds of today bred on mythologies of ago.
The latter has adapted itself well enough, but an ice-bound drive to the death would be harder, what with all those other voices clamoring behind.At the heart of the appeal is how the old is fashioned anew without breaking out of the accustomed mold of guns, steel, frenzied accomplishment, fitted abuse, linear narrative, first person of alternate emote and action, self-reflexive unreliability that pursues itself to the wasteland, and the usual assumptions of gender, economy, warlords and world powers.
On one level, the book is a feminist cry, showing a woman who is pursued and oppressed, never simply let alone, by the relentless men around her.
The narrator of the book is a man in a war-torn, increasingly apocalyptic country.
There are three men in the book - the girl's husband, the narrator (who describes himself as the husband's rival) and the Warden.
The narrator is also described as schizophrenic, and all three men may really be the same.
I cannot say that I loved this book, but it is certainly a fascinating, complex and worthwhile read.
What struck me most was the violence.
Not the cataclysmic violence of an encroaching nuclear winter, or the senseless murder and destruction of wartime.
It was the hand on an arm, the psychological hold of one person on another, the deer-in-headlights look of a woman whose ordained profession is that of "victim".
The woman as object.
(view spoiler)[Are all men in league with each other in some coalition of abuse?
The girl-woman sees them all through the same doe eyes.
I have a sneaking suspicion that the narrator and the warden are one and the same, two facets of a single person.
Modern klasiğe verilebilecek en iyi örneklerden olduğunu düşünüyorum bu kitabın. Tam filmi çekilesi, birden fazla okunası bir kitap. Okuduğum en ilginç kitaplardan biri. Çok fazla hikayesinden bahsetmek istemiyorum, bence okunmalı. Kitapta neler yok ki; distopya, bilim kurgu, korku, hayal gücü, gerçekle düşün karışması, zaman kayması, biraz Kafka tadı, dünyanın sonu, şiddet, kaos, savaşlar, aşk, soğuk, buz,... Ortaya karışık... Ne mi yok? İsimler yok, ülkeler yok, detaylar yok... Farklı, farklı... Okuyun...
Buz'un ilk yarısı tam bir rüya formunda ilerliyor.
Zamanda ve mekandaki sıçrayışları, gerçek dışı görünen anlatıları, aniden değişiveren mekan ve olayları sorgulamadan, mantıklı bir açıklama beklemeden ve tutarsızlığın rüya denen şeyin vazgeçilmezi olduğunu unutmadan; bir arkadaş rüyası dinler gibi takip etmek gerekiyor.
Bir rüya dinler gibi okumadıkça çok muvaffak olunabileceğini sanmıyorum.
İkinci yarıda ise, rüya biraz daha sanrılara ve sayıklamalara dönüşmeye başlıyor.
Daha saplantılı, daha tutarlı ama yine bir o kadar gerçek dışı.
Kitap genel olarak kolay başa çıkılabilecek türdendeğil ama 'rüya'nın gerçekliğine kapılıp, karakterle birlikte sürüklenmeye başlayınca, aynı saplantı ve karşı konulamaz dürtüyü içinizde bulabilirsiniz.
The story of a man searching for a woman, befuddled as to the reasons why within ten more pages unfolds into the intensity of Kavan's imagery.
The imagery opens itself up to a number of interpretations, the brutality of human nature, the striving for power and control, beyond convention the isolation of human beings,the destruction of the environment and its bleak consequences, and possibly many others constituting this therefore as one of the successful pieces of literature that provides a universality through time and cultures.
However for those those who would be interested I believe they will find within the explosion of this poor courageous woman's book, the initial urge for stories to be created and told, the urge for others to understand what our experience is like.
"Kafka's sister" is how Anna Kavan gets described sometimes, and she shares Kafka's frustration, the feeling that the world makes no sense.
One is not sure what one is doing, but it does not seem to be going well.All this was real, it was really happening, but with a quality of the unreal; it was reality happening in quite a different way.
Right at the snowy outset, as our antihero drives blindly into a storm and off the precipice of reality, you feel immediately that you're in the presence of something real.And it is about something.
At times an entirely other reality just takes over for a while, usually involving the skinny-ass blonde girl dying horribly.
Zihnimde küçük bir odayı, görsel-düşsel bir damga olarak ömür boyu kalacak şekilde rezerve etmiştir. Bu açıdan farklı analizlerin ötesinde 'büyülü' kitaplar arasında sayarım. Büyük ağabeyleri Locus Solus gibi, Morel'in Buluşu gibi. Özel bir yazar, yaman bir metin.
