https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152385.Mary_Poppins_from_A_to_Z
That was a really enjoyable book about the Alphabet and some stories from the Mary Poppins universe .. I liked it so much and it is very suitable to teach children the alphabet in a fun way :)
Mary Poppins from A to Z (Mary Poppins #7), P.L. Travers, Mary Shepard (Illustrator)
The big, colorful illustrations for every letter were a big treat! 4.5 stars! Somehow Travers manages to make even an alphabet story charming and engaging, even to those of us who already know our letters.
Mary Poppins A to Z was published in 1962, before the rise of niches in publishing and the modern-day folderol.
Even so, did no one consider who the target audience was for this book?
Too babyish for children who can already read, too advanced for tots learning their alphabet, and too silly for adults, I can’t understand who would pick up a copy of Mary Poppins A to Z and enjoy it.
Only Mary Shepherd’s full-color illustrations save this for a one-star rating.I adore P.L. Travers’ Mary Poppins series, but even as a die-hard fan, I couldn’t get past the letter D.
What whimsical wordplay with every letter of the alphabet! & accompanying fun illustrations by Mary Shepard. Totally enjoyable little book I read on a late lunch break I had to take on an aggravating day. (Read: "To hell with this day, I'm gonna go sit up on the roof & read Mary Poppins" *waves book wildly in the air, stomps off*)
What a quirkly little book, not like a real Mary Poppins book at all, but a page about every letter of the alphabet, using characters from Mary Poppins.
This is a very clever idea. Every author of series should do this kind of book. It's a lot of fun
My husband and I were given this book for Christmas, or rather our 2 month old daughter was given the book and we accepted as her proxies.
Since she is only 2 months old she cannot tell us what she thought of it, but we loved it!
Each letter has it's own story and the words that begin with the selected letter are capitalized so they stand out.
It will be a great book to read repeatedly to her, especially since the stories are quite creative and sometimes tongue twisters with all the alliteration.
Mary Poppins Is one of my favorites. I read most of the books while growing up. But my library did not have this one. So I've read it now and loved it. Entertaining for any age. Brought back great memories of the other books.
This is not really a Mary Poppins novel. It's more like a an alphabet book with little short scenarios about one or another character from her books. It became more about the letters than about any story line.
This was a sweet book, and I’d love to add it to my collection for my children.
I wanted to read all the Mary Poppins books and this was one of them so I sat and read the A-Z with the brief descriptions of Jane and Michael and all the other letters and people.
Travers made it read like any other Mary Poppins story.
Probably an unnecessary read if you don't have kids to read with or to in terms of the general Mary Poppins story, but if you are curious or want to read all the Mary Poppins books then this will not take you very long at all.
I'd like to think if I had a daughter, this would be one of the books I would have read to her.
An adorable addition to the Mary Poppins collection.
This book of the alphabet does not use simple terms like A is for Apple or Z for Zebra.
No, A is for Annabel, the Banks family's youngest daughter (yes, in the books there are more than 2 children)and Z is for Zodiac ,"the ring of stars and planets that circle the earth at night."Each letter tells a story of the Banks family, their friends and neighbors and various characters all from the other Mary Poppins books.
I wanted to like this book more than I did, because I loved Disney's "Mary Poppins" and "Saving Mister Banks" and this was by PL Travers herself. While I saw much of the same characters in the first movie, this didn't have the charm of either movie. There were some great words in this - Kapok, Verbena, Zither - and I wouldn't suggest not reading this. However, I didn't think this was the most quality children's book.
This is a very clever set of little stories that emphasize letters of the alphabet. Travers mostly borrows from previous stories about Mary Poppins into little summaries and uses lots of words with the same letter. There's also a little pre-and post story, with the alphabet going up on the first, and down on the second. It would be a great edition to the library of a young child learning to read.4/5
I started reading this book aloud to my niece while I was visiting her. It was a cute tong twisting read that she enjoyed and even read it a bit on her own. We never got back to finish it together, so I had to finish it on my own. Not quite like other Poppins tales, but still the same magic and whimsy.
This is the 7th of the 8 Mary Poppins books. Josh and I are trying to read the whole series together, and the only book we have left is the Mary Poppins Cookery Book. (How does one read aloud a COOKBOOK?!?) Though Josh enjoys the books, I think they're all very similar to each other and have too many bizarre elements in the stories.
This was an alright read. I liked the Mary Poppins theme of the book since that is something that I grew up on but it also had a lot of different looks then what I was used to with Mary Poppins. I think a lot of kids would be bored of this alphabet book.
G is for Geese,R is for Robertson Aye,E is for East Wind,A is for Annabel,T is for Topsy-Turvy,B is for Admiral Boom,O is for Once-upon-a-time,O is also for Original andK is for King.
Mary Poppin's A-Z is a fun ABC book with a familiar character. You could show the movie or clips from it so the students could relate to the original story, or you could read it, or you could just read this book (it does just fine on its own).
lucu dan seru.favorit saya : “T is for Topsy-Turvy.It is Tuesday. Mr. Banks Tears Through The house like a Tempest."Why is my Tobacco Tin Topped-up with Toffee? Who Tied my Tartan Tie round The Toast?”
This book contains a story to each letter of the alphabet and each story involves at least one of the Mary Poppins characters. I think children would like this book as children love Mary Poppins, they love great illustrations and they got introduced to the alphabet through funny stories.
Kids would probably enjoy these silly alliterated paragraphs about Mary Poppins.
Sweet, simple and, of course, alphabetical.
more of a poem than a book, lyrical, but short on plot.
I was looking for the old book I remember from my childhood about Mary Poppins . This wasn't the book but it did give me some hints of where to look.
Very cutesy poo. For those hardcore Mary Poppins fans.
Not bad. Just really short.
I'm not a fan of ABC books, but this one actually found its way to my shelves. I wonder what I would have thought of it when I was about ten and in my "Mary Poppins phase."
Delightful!
