https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59503.The_Lost_Steps
And he wants to stay in this primordial settlement of lotus-eaters for good and begins to compose threnody of Ulysses descending to the land of the dead…But the destiny of Ulysses is to return so the civilization tries to claim him back…The modern times don’t suit ancient heroes – exposed to contemporary civilization they wither.
Doesn't she understand she's too decadently European to be of service any longer to our brave, self-exploring protagonist?Problems aside, however, Pasos Perdidos remains an important Latin American novel -- it is cited by many "boom" authors like José Donoso and Carlos Fuentes as a foundational 20th Century literary influence -- and, perhaps more importantly, it is a consistently engaging read.
Carpentier masterfully concocts the world of the South American jungle, absolutely magical in comparison to the undisclosed European city from which his character commences his quest, and -- this is what impressed me most -- the narrator's longing for self-realization and for a return to simplicity is immensely compelling.
At times he seemed normal, not like a typical 'crazy' unreliable narrator with unpredictable moodswings.
I don't think Carpentier was painting the narrator to be an example to be followed above judgement, but rather as an example of the futility of our condition in the world--how we can't go back to a simpler state, and how we cannot stay here either in the time of the 'galley master'.The thought invariably struck me that the only difference between my previous birthday and this one was the extra candle on the cake, which tasted like the last one...
Alejo Carpentier é considerado pelo crítico Harold Bloom como um dos 100 Génios da história da literatura.Os Passos Perdidos é o diário da viagem de um músico, que sobe o rio Orinoco, com o objectivo de encontrar instrumentos musicais.
É um romance muito rico e complexo, que contrapõe a nossa civilização actual com a primitiva; a oposição entre a nossa forma de vida - que origina infelicidade e frustrações - e a simplicidade do homem pré-histórico.A escrita é mágica; harmoniosa, quase como se a ouvíssemos e, certamente, será o deleite de um melómano.
A composer journeys to the South American jungle ostensibly to find some primitive but seminal musical instrument.
He finds new love and the instrument in question and begins to compose again, finding his inspiration in the fundamental sounds of nature.
It was everywhere, diligent, looking after all the details, making the necessary arrangements, placing the mourners, lighting the candles, taking pains to see that the whole town should find place in the vast rooms with deep window seats and broad doorways, the better to contemplate its work.
Carpentier is one of the most extraordinary writers I've ever encountered, the equal of Borges, Faulkner, or Lowry. His prose is savage and elegant, the worlds he creates as convincing as they are fantastic. He needs to be Big News, a Household Word, he should enjoy a reputation commensurate with his genius.
A consciência de não ser ninguém. O deambular por uma cidade que já não é sua. As suas mulheres. O passado e o presente que se embrulham entre si. Um século de desencanto. Apenas os compositores clássicos como Beethoven continuam a ser louvados. Shelly e o seu Prometeu assim como os heróis da " Odisseia". Ao longo do livro o narrador tenta se encontrar mas ao voltar ao seu país de origem todo mudou. Afinal quem somos? Somos nada ou todo?
Es una suerte de aventura, de viaje y de compendio filosófico que nos lleva a lo originario del hombre, y no por esto, a lo primitivo.
Hay una conexión entre la naturaleza y el ser humano que pocos, en este caso, el protagonista, son capaces de sentir y entender.
Carpentier tiene una prosa muy poética, a momentos un poco enrevesada con palabras desusadas.
A la música, al lenguaje y a la mujer las encuentra en la selva, en ese lugar que tiene su propia civilización.
His writing is a fusion of literary and music themes.
What makes his writing difficult for me was the music.
I am not well studied in music and therefore found that looking up a lot of the works really helped me to more fully enjoy Carpentier’s writing.
The narrator is never named.
Most characters are only identified by what they do rather than names.
Does he live in society where he can write or stay in the nature where he is timeless, where he is creative?
Advanced vocabulary overflows with existentialism and anthropological wisdom.
Alejo Carpentier deserves accolades but every sentence was too heavy and lavish, to absorb as a narrative.
The words are laboured.
Extreme verbosity of every sentence; that I could not take.I never related to the twice-cheating protagonist.
If I had at least felt rewarded for persistence in finishing, by liking its end, I would give the three stars I’d had in mind.
I acknowledge sharp wisdom and talent.
It was a spurting of words, poetic and skilled as they were singly.
I feel relieved to be finished, for having survived a long task.
Nie pamiętałem niestety za bardzo dlaczego, więc wiedziony zasadą "książek, których nie warto przeczytać dwa razy, nie warto było czytać nawet raz" postanowiłem podejść od niej po raz drugi.
Nie tylko dlatego, że sama historia zaczynała nabierać rumieńców, ale także dlatego, że to co na początku uważałem za wadę (przegadanie, egzaltacja - szczególnie w języku) zaczęło mi się coraz bardziej podobać.
W pewnym momencie zaczęło mi się to bardzo podobać.
I skończyłem książkę z poczuciem dużej satysfakcji i zgodziłem się ze sobą-dzieciakiem, że warto było.Sama historia opowiada o muzykologu, który rusza w podróż do buszu.
Na pewno warto przeczytać tę książkę dwa razy.
The narrator's voice began to grate on me halfway through. That said, this novel is full of descriptive wizardry.
نظری به خصوصیات فرمال رد گم آثار داستانی کارپانتیه بسیار متنوع است، تا جایی که هیچ دو اثر داستانیاش را نمیتوان در یک دسته گذاشت؛ «رد گم» روایتی ادیبانه است دربارهی زمان، فرهنگ و مسائل اجتماع امروز، «تعقیب» داستانی بلند با محتوای سیاسی و انسانشناسی است که تصویرسازیهای بسیار قویِ سینمایی و فرم سونات موسیقی دارد، «قرن روشناییها» (در ایران به نامهای «انفجار در کلیسای جامع» و «قرن روشنفکری» شناخته میشود) نخستین اثر متعارفی رهآلیسم جادویی است و به نگرشهای درونگرایانه و برونگرایانه و تقابلهای این نگرش
آثار داستانی کارپانتیه بسیار متنوع است، تا جایی که هیچ دو اثر داستانی‌اش را نمی‌توان در یک دسته گذاشت؛ «رد گم» روایتی ادیبانه است درباره‌ی زمان، فرهنگ و مسائل اجتماع امروز، «تعقیب» داستانی بلند با محتوای سیاسی و انسان‌شناسی است که تصویرسازی‌های بسیار قویِ سینمایی و فرم سونات موسیقی دارد، «قرن روشنایی‌ها» (در ایران به نام‌های «انفجار در کلیسای جامع» و «قرن روشنفکری» شناخته می‌شود) نخستین اثر متعارفی ره‌آلیسم جادویی است و به نگرش‌های درون‌گرایانه و برون‌گرایانه و تقابل‌های این نگرش‌ها در باب تاریخ می‌پردازد، «قلمرو این عالم» روایتی شخصی است از ماجراهایی تاریخی و «کنسرت باروک» داستان بلندی حکایت‌گونه است با فرم و حال‌وهوای موسیقایی و غنایی که با شخصیت‌پردازی‌های نیمه‌داستانی برخی آهنگ‌سازان برجسته‌ی دوره‌ی باروک و توصیف‌ها و صحنه‌پردازی‌های دل‌نشین به شاخه‌های فرعی و فراموش‌شده‌ی موسیقی می‌پردازد و نثر و بیان شیرینش موجب شده به آن لقب «سور نثر» بدهند.
Lots of introspective musings about the modern and primitive life, with the narrator seeing more beauty and honesty in the latter.What I can't understand, however, is his neglect of the jungle mosquitoes.
Except for one scene where mosquitoes sort of formed a beautiful kaleidoscope of colors, and his mistress being stricken with malaria, no mention is made of the horrors of mosquito bites.
I had lived once in a jungle-like place and I know that the reality of mosquitoes in the jungle makes a real hell out of any picturesque primitive paradise.
Is it possible to have an authentic experience of a foreign culture?
Carpentier answers this question in the negative, and I am beginning to think he might be right.
It's especially true of vacation sites these days, which increasingly resemble Disneyfied recreations of foreign cultures.
But Carpentier suggests that even total immersion into a foreign culture doesn't make you a native -- you can't leave home even if you try.This isn't a perfect book - the characters tend to be a little stiffly drawn and more romanticized than real, but the prose, while dense, is beautiful.
The Lost Steps is a work that makes you appreciate the journey; not only the manner in which Carpent
A medida que se interna en la selva venezolana, sin embargo, comienza a notar que el tiempo parece ir hacia atrás: pasa por la edad media, por la antigüedad, hasta finalmente alcanzar el asentamiento de Santa Mónica, de características neolíticas, donde la existencia transcurre de acuerdo a los ritmos y vicisitudes de la naturaleza, donde las catástrofes son predecibles, donde cada ser humano desempeña tareas primordiales y su cuerpo se ha adaptado perfectamente a esas tareas.
Los ritmos que crea en las descripciones de la selva, el río y los seres que la habitan generan imágenes vívidas e inolvidables.
Though my opinion of the novel essentially remained the same, I feel that I was able to gain further appreciation for it as a truly valuable work in the Latin American canon.Carpentier's vivid, detailed descriptions of the natural world in the "lost steps" that delve into edenic Latin America overshadow the lack of development in the protagonist's secondary world.
This harm is repaired by his venture into the primitive societies of the rain forest, as he realizes that life can have a changed pace if lived savoring simple pleasures."The Lost Steps" is a highly important novel, as it achieves a sense of universality through its omission of names of locations and of the main character.
This was my 2nd book by a Cuban author, and like the other, Arenas' Farewell to the Sea: A Novel of Cuba, it was a rather challenging read. The vocabulary was certainly challenging, even though it was a translation from Spanish to English, and some of the literary, musical and mythological references were beyond my knowledge base. Nevertheless I enjoyed it. It has great realistic characters and a good story and the exploration of a life in upheaval is compelling reading. Could be somewhat difficult to obtain a copy.
I read this book for the OEA Book Club, and really did not enjoy the book.
But the discussion we had at the Book Club was among the best.
Stewart (who chose the book) in particular had a very nice interpretation of the book -- one which bordered on the question of "What is Art?" -- which gave me an enhanced appreciation for the book.
All the same, I still didn't enjoy the process of reading this book.
One take-away lesson is that a book can be about a great topic with a great message, and still not be a painful read.
It's unlikely I'll try another book by Carpentier at this point.
This is one of the most extraordinary books I've ever read. I read it thirty or forty years ago and I've never forgotten it. Reminded of it today seeing the film Embrace of the Serpent, set in that same mysterious inhospitable all engulfing world - the Amazon jungle. Shall go back and read it again (of course I still have my old fingered Penguin with a Max Ernst 'jungle ' on the cover.)
I thought this book was disgusting and horribly written. It frustrates me that some authors feel in order to convey a point, they need to be vulgar and inappropriate. It was a vain attempt to be artistic and different that was immensely disappointing.
Memorial stars.... Knocked my socks off in the 70's. Am considering a rereading, given my recent interest in Amazonia.
"What could have been"--"You can never go home again." These are the thoughts in my mind as I came to the end of this book.
The language of this work is rich, and is put to good use describing the jungle scenes of the protagonist's journies.
A music composer who works in advertising is married to a stage actress, who is always leaving to tour with her stage company.
For this reason, so he justifies to himself, he has a mistress.
His former teacher, a curator for a museum, offers him $ to go to the jungle to look for primitive instruments.
Taking his mistress with him, he soon tires of her.....
Really good stuff!!!
Tenemos al protagonista, en su vida diaria, de repente siendo arrojado a una misión para la cual no considera tener energías, ni ganas.
Sin embargo, a medida que va avanzando la trama, este va descubriéndose a sí mismo, a través de las peligrosas situaciones que debe enfrentar.El toque de la novela es, sin duda, la capacidad del autor y su manejo del lenguaje.
Hasta el mínimo trozo del texto está bien trabajado, adecuado a una lírica muy hermosa, a través de las sensaciones y pensamientos del protagonista.Fue una ligera lectura muy tranquila, que me hizo reflexionar sobre lo que es en verdad la felicidad y las necesidades.
It is full of vivid descriptions about Latin American land and lifestyle and deals with the struggle of a lost protagonist in searching for his identity and home.
I enjoyed the protagonist's journey and the story of his love life, but it was so crowded with superfluous descriptions of the land, the animals, the plant life, and other less-important details that it disrupted the true message of the novel.
I think it has a very important lesson to learn from it and it is rich with religious and classical symbols that may add to the novel for some people.
A listen about this book in a latinoamerica literature class and I began to read it because the music story.
But, after read more I realized that it book has more that music.
I enjoy a lot the part went Rosario talk about the marriage (“…according to her, marriage, legal tie, removes any recourse to defend women against men.
And went the main character talk about our modern life: "the ways of the cement out, exhausted, men and women who sold one day more of his time to nurturing companies.
While I appreciate Carpentier's extraordinary talent as an author, I can't say I enjoyed the novel.
I also found fault with virtually all of Carpentier's characters.
While I have read other novels whose characters have bothered me, I found my annoyance at those of Carpentier to be distracting.
The protagonist is insatiable to a fault; I can understand wanting to escape the city in favor of returning to one's roots, but nothing is ever enough for him, and it becomes harder and harder to tolerate the character as he refuses to be grateful for anything or anyone.
His writing is filled with incessant descriptions of the Venezuelan landscape and culture that I truly believe didn't help me in understanding any important theme within the work.
I did enjoy the protagonists search for identity which I was able to relate to.
I also liked the lesson of the protagonists inability to achieve satisfaction and his incessant search to find a place where he truly belonged which ultimately led to his unhappiness.
I would only recommend this book to people who have a large bulk of time in which they can read and reread the novel and better understand all of the references Carpentier uses.
