https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11899417-molokai
It's been a while since I've found a book this absorbing. Shockingly informative, the author surfaces a hideous period that too few of us are aware of. The writing is lovely, spare and unsentimental. Informative, engaging, and poignant. A very worthwhile read...
I picked up this book because I did not know that Molokai had served as a leper colony, and I was interested in learning more about both the illness and what life may have been like in a leper colony.
This book did ont disappoint on either of those fronts.
I was shocked by the harshness of the quarantine rules, I guess I never realized before that children were ripped from their families, and what that must have done to both the children and the parents and siblings.It's a long book, but one I was enthralled by, and am very glad I read.
I will definitely look for more books by this author.
This was very interesting in how it relates to the actual history of those with leprosy in the Islands.
What I disliked about this book is the male perspective on a female character.
I feel like men write their female characters and lose sight of the differences in men and women.
Women do not feel and think the same way as men particularly concerning sex.
So I felt this book was tainted.
It could have been much better had he written it from a male perspective or tuned in to the way women think and feel a bit more.
Loved this book. I cried almost through the whole book. And the author piqued my interest in learning more about Fr. Damien, leprosy and Molokai. I then had to read his other book, Hawaii. Which, by the way was also a good quick read but I cried far less.
Rachel, as leprosy patient, wife and mother, is a captivating character. She is smart and strong, yet vulnerable. Her life story held me from the first pages until the very last word.
Really interesting historical fiction about the life of a girl diagnosed with leprosy at the age of 6 and banished to the island of Molokai. I learned a lot.
Historical fiction about the Hawaiian island that became a leper colony a hundred years ago. i learned a lot about Hunter disease.The story centers around the life span of a 6 year old Hawaiian girl taken from her family when she contracts leprosy. Sad and absorbing read.
Loved this book. I'd like to see it made into a movie.
great historical fiction. well researched and well told. I thoroughly enjoyed the whole journey. not for young readers.
Holy cow. One of the best books I have read in 5 years. Intense, compelling storytelling with historical base. So much taken from so many. Based on true events. Will never forget this story.
I thought it was a great book - just remember to have a box of tissues close by.
This was a read for a newly formed book club and a certain hit. All loved the book ... well written, good descriptions and wonderful plot ...
Enjoyed this read a lot! Didn't know about the leper colony on Molokai and enjoyed learning the history through a novel. The story was well written and intriguing.
It's a grim prognosis when you are diagnosed with leprosy and are shipped off to Moloka'i to live out your days there as the family shame, especially when you are a child of 7.
Rachel's newfound family cares for her and loves her as a daughter but she is so lonely for her real family.
Somehow, Rachel's leprosy grows slowly and when she comes of age she meets Kenji, a Japanese leper who falls in love with Rachel.
Kenji and Rachel marry and have a daughter together knowing that their daughter will be taken from them immediately, before she contracts the disease.
Exceptionally well researched and written novel based in history in a setting I'd never heard of: Moloka'i, a small island next to Oahu where lepers were banished in the 19th century and part of the 20th as well. Brennert follows one young girl, as well as some of those who cared for her, throughout her life that is a feasible account of a real life experience there. Overall, I really liked the pace and characters and learning so much about the history of Moloka'i and Hawaii in general.
This is a powerful story of historical fiction that takes place on the Hawaiian Island of Molokai. This is where people diagnosed with leprosy were sent to live out their lives in exiled quarantine from their families and society during the late 1800's and early 1900's. Rachel is 7 years old when she is ripped from her family and sent to live out her years in exile. This is a heart wrenching portrayal of tremendous loss but also of tremendous love. Definitely recommend it.
I really enjoyed this novel. I think I enjoyed it so much because I have only been to Hawaii (Kauai) twice in my life but I loved it so much! I thought the story was interesting about the leper colony. I also enjoyed the descriptions of the different locations, as well as the character development. I would definitely recommend this book, particularly if you are planning to visit any of the islands in Hawaii.
One of the best books I've ever read! I definitely will be reading this one again and I never reread books. The knowledge I gained reading this was immense and the characters I grew to care about and hope the best for. Such a sad part of our history, yet I'd never heard about it until I picked up this book. A definite read for all historical fiction fans or anyone who wants an amazing read that is full of life, adventure and the human spirit one doesn't normally see.
vivid descriptions & great flow with the switching points of view. interesting storyline once you get used to the old-style language. the flow could've been improved if it story didn't start at the same time period. feels like reading the same story over & over again cause of all the subsequent events are the same just from a diff perspective. I would've given this book three stars if Caleb' s story didn't exist. he contained to much backstory about his life that didn't move the story forward & his spiritual conversion was very confusing like a fever dream
Molokai is one of the Hawaiian Islands that was used as a leper colony. When people were sent there they never returned to society unless their symptoms were eradicated. This novel is a lovely, heart warming story of the people who lived there, and their deep loves and tremendous losses. I loved this book and felt as though I were living amidst the wonderful people.
This book broke my heart and I was forced to cry more than several times. But I still found this book heart-touching and absolutely amazing. To feel the persons losses and pain, it’s amazing. It was also heartbreaking to read the perspective of a young girl sent to an island, isolated, because she has leprosy. This is truly the most amazing book I have ever read.
I enjoyed this book. As an RN I am always fascinated my medical issues in prior centuries and how they dealt with them. It is sad to think that someone can be sent away, even in such a beautiful place as Hawaii, and not have any idea what the future holds. I just can’t imagine what Rachel went through, always being pushed away because of her disease. Beautiful story.
The book is divided into three parts where each part follows a different character. I like that the writing style changed for each part to represent each character. It was a good story with a look at the personal struggles and moral issues involved around the leprosy in Hawaii.
A well written chance to prolong my vacation time in Hawaii. Although Kauai is much nicer than the Molokai period that was covered in the book. I enjoyed learning more about Hanson's disease and how it was handled during the late 1800's and early 1900's in Hawaii.
Very informative about a time in history that I knew nothing about, and I love how it shows how the same events are interpreted differently by the different characters. Caleb's navel-gazing made the end a little bit slow and anticlimactic, though.
Interesting book about leprosy in Hawaii...found out things I never would have known, so sad! The author did want to cover EVERY point in history, so that got a little long and felt it could have been shorter, but super interesting nonetheless.
This book really drew me in more than I expected it to. It quickly grasped ahold of me and I really felt for the characters in this book. Learning about this piece of history through such a beautifully written book was eye opening.
I loved this book! The history of this island has always been fascinating to me, but I learned so much more from this book because it's a very personal account of life there. I have a whole new perspective on this island and the era of leprosy.
A very good book. Very long and it went on and on, but it was a good story. I, again, learned something about a piece of history I had not known about before. Hard to imagine this kind of story really happened back in the day.😰
Surprisingly good.
