https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64402.The_Stainless_Steel_Rat_s_Revenge
Granted, there are a lot of morally casual rogue types surfing the SF space ways, but Harry Harrison has made Slippery Jim something very warm and cuddly.
Things got real interesting when Slippery Jim was “out-conned” into joining the Special Core, an elite police force and spy agency made up of former criminals.
I had such a good time with this story that I feel like I want to go back and read the first one because I only gave it 3 stars and that feels a bit criminal at the moment.
If you are looking for a light-hearted, but smartly written and well plotted feel good story, this certainly fits the bill.
Slippery Jim diGriz returns in the second of Harry Harrison's light-hearted science fiction series – The Stainless Steel Rat. Having stopped Angelina's homicidal scheme in the first novel,  The Stainless Steel Rat , our hero promptly falls in love with her. Luckily, the technology of the Special Corps means that part of Angelina's punishment is that the homicidal parts of her brain are reprogrammed. Although, still trouble with a capital 'T', she no longer wants to kill people. Which is lucky as
Slippery Jim diGriz returns in the second of Harry Harrison's light-hearted science fiction series – The Stainless Steel Rat. Having stopped Angelina's homicidal scheme in the first novel, 
Having skipped out on the Special Corps, they're holidaying in secret while robbing banks to pass the time together.Tracked down again by Special Corps diGriz is offered the opportunity to redeem himself again through a dangerous mission to investigate a secretive planet which has been invading a number of nearby planets and starting to worry the corps.
Not long after finishing the first book in the series, I happened to stumble upon the sequel and happily picked it up. After how much I enjoyed the first book, I expected more great things from this.While it was still good fun, I didn't quite enjoy it as much as the first, and it did feel a bit more dated this time. If I see the next book I might pick it up, should I be in the mood for something light, but for now I'm quite happy to leave it there. So long, "slippery" Jim.
It’s not just the despicably charming characters of Slippery Jim DiGriz and used-to-be-evil Angelina, but also Phil Gigante’s hilarious delivery.The Stainless Steel Rat’s Revenge begins with Slippery Jim robbing a bank and Angelina driving the getaway car.
Along the way, he goes undercover as a Cliaand officer (Gigante’s Russian accents are so funny here), meets an army of beautiful women, wears transparent clothes, undergoes psychoanalysis (Gigante’s got a German accent here), and creates a troop of polite robot butlers who, in Gigante’s uppercrust English accent, say things like “Thanking you, Sir” as they throw bombs at the enemy.The Stainless Steel Rat series, so far, is superb in every way — the plot is exciting and clever, the writing is tight and colorful, and Jim’s voice (it’s written in first-person) is endlessly entertaining.
This story takes off a few months after the end of the first book, "The Stainless Steel Rat".
It follows James Bolivar diGriz, who is a con-man employed by a special agency aimed at defeating serious crime and other bad things, in this case, galactic conquest.I enjoy the way these stories unfold, and I like the glee with which the narrator (audio book) provides as he tells certain events.
In both cases, you have an adept criminal who is a member of an elite government agency aimed at taking care of significant problems.
I liked the premise (invading a planet from another planet is impossible - but these guys are doing it - go figure out how). The infiltration and action were just as clever and fun as in the first book. The information gained late in the book seems to hint at a recurring villain. The only thing that lets this down is the solution to the original problem - it turns out they are successful invading planets because... they convert all the resources to invading the next planet? Not terribly convincing.
There's some twee fun to be had here, a bouncy enough romp through spiking an interstellar invasion, but mainly it was just ok. It's the kind of book I'd suggest for my future children, except I wouldn't want them to think every woman is a buxom amazonian, fiercely independent up until the point where Jim capitulates, whereupon they melt again. He's definitely a rat. Reconstruct please.
Jim DeGris throws lots of smoke grenades, changes his appearance many times, and sneaks in then out then in again to get the bad guys. This easy to read science fiction book does not challenge the reader at all but is still kind of fun.
Another in the stainless steel rat books. They are all quick reads with alot of humor in them. The stories remain fresh and new. Very recommended, especially to teen readers or someone new to SiFi
This is probably the novel that sets the formula for all the other novels in Tis sequence.
It fleshes out the ideas and universe of the first book much more realistically and also gives the female characters much more to do: we see what Angelina is capable of this time around, and there's a reason why she and Jim are among my favourite spouse teams in fiction.The only issues with this book are that it does try to produce some credible female supporting characters but doesn't really do much with them beyond plotting.
Jim tries to infiltrate the regime and do some spy work, and ends up getting rescued by Angelina and then they both have a lot of fun saving the world(s) from the bad guys.I was a big fan of this series of books as a teenager, but since then I've changed, and the books, well they've dated reasonably well.
It's also a lot less clever this time around after a few intervening decades.
Having said that, it's still not bad, HH tried to push a back a few social norms, this time gender equality, and there are worse books out there to read.
I know this is a reread, since I had this on my bookshelf, but I didn't remember what the heck it was about and once I finished it I can't figure out why I thought I would want to reread it in the future and kept it. It was an okay read and maybe if I had ever started this series from the beginning I would be more invested in the whole story arc, but if that was what I planned to do, I never did get any of the other books...
I didn't enjoy this stainless steel rat adventure nearly as much as the first. The scenes often seem disjointed without sufficiently building on what came before, and there are a few giant leaps in which problems are suddenly solved without sufficient explanation. it might make a better action movie than a book.
This probably should get 5 stars from me but I think it's become somewhat dated. One of the central plot points is a bit dissonant because more recent works have trained me to expect a reversal or twist and this didn't have it. Nevertheless, it was a very enjoyable book. Not quite as enjoyable as the first one, perhaps because it went from James Bond/ Wanted to the Mummy 3. Still, good sci fi.
Harrison toimii aina :D
Gotta love a master spy/thief/nogoodnik who infiltrates intergalactic empires while sneaking in booze to avoid the DTs.
3.75
I'm reading these because Harrison was an Esperantist and used the idea of Esperanto as the lingua franca of the galaxy. But in this book there's only a single sentence in la bona lingvo...
Unfortunately, said nuptials put him back on the grid and the Special Forces have a new assignment for him.There's a lot I'd hate in this book if it weren't written by Harry Harrison.
even if he isn't able to topple the whole problem.While Jim is undercover, he finds that the next planet for conquest is a resort planet that's ruled by women.
With authors like Douglas Adams, it's easy to take a few quotes out of context, but with Harry Harrison, it's the entire thing, the plot, the execution, the humor...
(Not something the likes of Independence Day would ever pause to consider, but it is right at the core of the central mystery here - although once again it throws up continuity questions from the prequels, but - again - not this book's fault.) As DiGriz comes face to face with the real enemy, the 'Gray Men' who are using another planet's invasion force as their puppets, there's also a surprisingly brutal moment that almost seems to belong in a much darker thriller.But it wakes us up to the seriousness of the threat and ramps up the stakes very effectively.It's let down a little at the end, with everything a touch too easily resolved by a gadget and there's an odd hokey-cokey segment in the middle where Jim breaks into a military base, breaks back out the same day only to then break back in almost immediately.
It follows on a few months after the end of the first book and continues the story of Slippery Jim diGriz.
The only slight niggle is that overall the plot feels very similar to the previous novel and there isn’t really anything original added to the formula readers will be familiar with.In regards to the characters, well the loveable rogue diGriz shines through again here and I couldn’t help but enjoy following his escapades.
This book is quite simply all about diGriz.Overall, this was another humorous entry in “The Stainless Steel Rat” series.
“I out-thought them, that’s all.” Special Corps sends the Rat to infiltrate what today looks like North Korea In Space; a nastily militaristic planet that is going round duffing up other systems when – as Harrison astutely points out (and I read this in the month ‘Independence Day’ returns to cinemas) – Space Armadas are basically impossible and certainly not energy efficient.
You get the sense Harrison probably was too, there’s a lot of warmth and humour coming off the page along with the anti-war sentiment (this was published in 1970, so Vietnam was still raging).
Genial schoolboy fodder although God help the Rat now he has Angelina and the twins to look out for.
Having been a while since I’d enjoyed the exploits of criminal turned intergalactic secret agent James Bolivar “Slippery Jim” DiGriz, I picked up the second book in the series and wasn’t disappointed for doing so.
In true DiGriz fashion, it’s a fly by the seat of your pants operation that takes him deep into the workings of the invasion and the conspiracy at its heart.
Despite being delivered in Harry Harrison’s trademark snappy witty style that propels you through the protagonist’s exploits, the sequel felt rushed at points, and doesn’t actually conclude with this installment, so was a little subpar in comparison to the first book.
Clearly the second installment of what turns out to be a rather longwinded series, this lacked some of the captivating pace of the first title.'Thanks for saving my life.' 'Not at all, sir.
Now--may I show you your room?'Despite this, the witty banter of our hero Jim is on par excellence, and we leave the title expecting to see more of the "grey men".'I don't wish to bother you dearest,' says Jim to his wife busy with their twin sons, 'But the man in the plum jacketcoming up behind me is an assassin.
Like the first book in this series, The Stainless Steel Rat, The Stainless Steel Rat's Revenge is a fun read.
And the neat thing about this character is…he always does it with style.
I would love to spend more time with all of the characters.
I consider this book a really fast read.
I really liked this book and recommend this series to all readers.
I would not hesitate to recommend The Stainless Steel Rat's Revenge.
The violence is extremely minimal and the main character does not believe in killing.I rated this book an 8½ out of 10.

While Harrison's prose is often stilted, his hero Jim diGriz is more than enough to recommend the Stainless Steel Rat series.
Though the Rat is usually sent on interstellar missions, his adventures are more Dick Tracy than Flash Gordon.
(Well, if Dick Tracy was a semi-recovered criminal with an almost entirely porous moral fiber.) In this installment, Jim and his dame Angelina bust some heads on a planet run by a brutal military dictatorship before finally embarking upon a family vacation with their newborn twins.
Of course, Angelina keeps weapons in the diaper bag ...
Гораздо слабее, чем первая (4) часть.
Первая - легкая как перышко: космические корабли бороздят просторы средневековых королевств, роботы, работающие на угле и прекрасные незнакомки.
Вторая - наоборот, натужный юморок над советским солдафоном - база Глупость, гостиница Злато-Злато и главный герой Васька Хулья.
Ну ё-мое, Гарри.
А феминистическое общество и матриархат?
Хотя забавно он расправляется с Оруэллом и воплощает мощный план гибели военных империй.
Оказывается нужно взорвать двигатели у всех космических кораблей, а на покупку новых обьявить эмбарго.
Тогда любая воинственная империя не сможет больше воевать и расширяться, а моментально превратится в туристический рай с полковниками-привратниками и почетным караулом для любых иностранцев.
Превратится, Гарри, превратится.
Un très bon roman. A la lecture du titre, n'ayant aucune connaissance préalable de l'auteur, je ne savais à quoi m'attendre. La réponse je l'ai rapidement trouvée : des personnages hauts en couleur, s'échangeant des répliques au vitriol, des situations rocambolesques s'enchaînant à un rythme effréné. Pas le temps de souffler au long de ce récit bourré d'humour et servi par une écriture (et une traduction) aux petits oignons. Le seul point d'ombre à déplorer vient de l'univers qui n'est qu'esquissé, d'où une faible immersion du lecteur et la note qui n'est pas maximale.
This enjoyable infiltration and sabotage story of one man against an entire world is very reminiscent of Eric Frank Russell’s Wasp.
It has a nice satirical look at the military and warmongery in general.
Jim’s new wife Angelina features a little in this one, but mainly is just Jim.The only negative about this book, and the series as a whole, is the James Bond level of survivability of the titular character.
Yes, he finds himself in bleak situations but you know he’s always going to get out of them somehow.
Sometimes though, it’s nice to just read an enjoyable romp without any stress.
