https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22080.Westworld
As Alfonso said in a recent review:So there!! I like shit blowing up! And computers blowing shit up! And sexy horny robots!Alfonso and like-minded people, this is where it all started. For anyone who's interested in sexy horny robots blowing shit up, an indispensable source reference.
TV series only, in which I strongly see Riverworld by Philip José Farmer, Ground Hog Day, and snippets of Stephen King's The Dark Tower. Is Westworld also Trumpland mentality, where pawns are sacrificed to cater for open-carry monied punters to get their cruel jollies?
Gradually, the technicians running Delos begin to notice problems spreading like an infection among the androids: the robots in MedievalWorld begin suffering an inexplicable number of systemic failures, a robot rattlesnake bites Blane, and against its programming, an android refuses a guest's sexual advances.
The resort's supervisors, in increasing desperation, try to regain control by shutting down power to the entire park, but this traps them in the control rooms, unable to turn the power back on while the robots run amok on stored power.Martin and Blane, passed out drunk after a bar-room brawl, wake up in the WestWorld bordello, unaware of the breakdown.
Definitely a precursor to The Terminator.The movie is a lot of fun.
This book is not a novelization, but the script for the film.For a price, guests can go to Westworld.
It looks and feels like living in the old west.
Since walking, talking cyborgs populate the town, you can even shoot it out without fear of getting shot.
At least not until the robots stop obeying their programming...Typical Crichton, but another great cautionary tale-if you don't mind reading in script format.Since this book is difficult to find now, do yourself a favor and watch the movie.
I saw the movie as a kid with my dad so it was cool being able to go back and read the screenplay.
The movie came out in 1972 and I forgot how ahead of its time this (and pretty much everything Crichton did wrote was).
There's an essay in the beginning of the book by Crichton about making the movie, talking about issues with budgeting, casting, special effects, etc.
and how the studio thought it was going to be a flop, but the test audience loved it.
It's worth reading if you watched the HBO version and wanted to see where it all started.
This was an odd reading experience because it’s a screenplay, not a book.
Westworld was never a novel - it was originally envisioned by Crichton as a movie.
The screenplay was written in 1972 and the movie came out in 1973.
At 107 pages, it’s short even for what it is.
I haven’t seen the original movie but wanted to read this before starting the HBO series.
But what’s great is that so much is conveyed in such short order.
It’s hard to believe it was done in ‘72, it’s aged so well.
Now I will gleefully go watch it, as the author intended.
Barely one hour read. Mediocre and in script format. Pass it, as you ain't missing a thing
I've not seen Westworld (neither the new television series nor the original movie) but I've been listening to a podcast where they talk about it all the time.
The best part, however, was the into by Crichton explaining the shooting of the film (which I'll read again before watching the movie).I loved reading through this screenplay.
I would recommend to anyone who loves Crichton's mastery of writing and adores the media of film.
Imagine if you will an amusement park full of robots programmed to fulfill every fantasy. Then something goes terribly wrong and the robots start killing tourists.
A classic...
When I saw the 1973 movie Westworld I was amazed at how Crichton had predicted the technological future as far as robotics and computer viruses go.
I was sure the book would be amazing.
only to discover that it's not a book; it's the screen play for the movie.
a lot of books have movie art on them and I don't mind that so I didn't look at the description of the product.
And I've got a screenplay to look at now if I ever want to write one...
I saw the series remake of this recently and decided to check out the book. I wish it was a novel rather than a screenplay, but it was still freaky. Now I have to go find the original movie. Such a great concept.
Influential story that is suspenseful and interesting however it is splattered with bits of scientific machine talk and more focus on the technician's in the control room than the characters in Westworld or the other worlds make it boring and not worth the read... (or watch for that matter)
The movie is great. The novelisation lacks.
Delicious brain candy 🍭
This is the original screenplay of Westworld as it was just two days before actual shooting began.
It is to be suggested to read the Forward by Former Story Editor Saul David and the introduction by Michael Chrichton at least twice, once before downloading and seeing the original film and then afterwards.
We now understand that the robots in the movie are breaking down because of a virus or a bug in the system.
Now we know the robots start breaking down or malfunctioning that they are being hit with a programming bug or by a computer virus.
Really fun reading the screenplay for the movie. I am obsessed with the new HBO series and wanted to see where the inspiration came from. I did like the original movie and I enjoyed reading all the descriptors and stage directions.
An interesting and very visual preview of the 1973 movie. Can't wait to watch it.
This book was one of the first adult books I read. The thought of an adult amusement park where guests can live out there fantasies without repercussions or remorse was both intriguing and horrifying. This amoral world seems destined to fall because of the selfish intent and nature of the place. Crichton uses an anti-septic and cold impersnal writing style to convey this. At times, the book paints humans as heartless and the robots as slaves. perhaps, this was the intent. Nevertheless, the result is mayhem and a solid science fiction tale.
I saw the Westworld movie a few years ago. The script includes some deleted scenes and an introduction by Michael Crichton that discusses challenges of the shoot. The story is a mix of Jurassic Park, Terminator, and the Truman Show. Yet it was written in 1972, long before any of these. Of course, Jurassic Park is also written by Crichton and the similarities to Westworld are obvious. There is even a shared line "We've spared no expense." I highly recommend watching the movie and, if you enjoyed it, the script adds some additional scenes and feels like Crichton material.
Between this script and HBO Season 1 -- When does a machine have consciousness and is it ok to treat them differently than humans? Star Trek TNG used the holo-deck as their West-world and covered a lot of this ground in eps with Data and Professor Moriarty.
This one started my love for fantasy
Great book! Thoroughly enjoyed it.
Good, but the ending was a little different than the movie.
Having been a long time fan of Micheal Chritchon, this is a fantastic book. Absolute must read if you are a fan of science fiction distopia.
Actually saw the movie first and loved it. Finally got a chance to read it, and loved the book too!
Saw movie.
Loved the book, loved the movie.
I don't actually have a copy of this - I think it belonged to my brother. This was another movie-first, book-second read.
the show doing A-MAZING work with the story...took my breath away. thank you author Michael Crichton!!
