https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510711.Henry_and_the_Clubhouse
The Henry series are for young readers aged 8-12.Good old Henry, the youngest paper boy in town, decides to build a clubhouse in his backyard, along with his friends Robert and Murph.
But Murph doesn't like girls so he insists it be a "Boys Only" clubhouse.Henry as usual is juggling multiple problems: One of his good friends is Beezus, who is a girl.
He has to keep his paper route going while also working on building the clubhouse.
He has to get out so he can do his route that day.Henry's number one worry is that he wants his father to be proud of him.
به گمانم بچه هایی که خانم کلیری براشون می نوشت از این یکی بیشتر از بقیه کتاب های این مجموعه خوششون بیاد.
Henry books are not as endearing as the Ramona series.
Through Henry's eyes, Ramona is nothing more than a pest.
I admire his pluck and his work ethic, and I'm happy to report that Henry is not as sexist as he was in Henry and Ribsy.
Once again, though, I was bothered that a 1962 book got re-illustrated in 2007.
Either make the drawings historically accurate or strive for a kind of vague agelessness!
So many details tie this story to its era; I'm not sure why the drawings can't reflect that.I started reading this out loud to my seven-year-old, but she ended up reading the last chapters on her own.
I was planning to give this four stars, but by the end of the book, I loved it so much that I decided to give it five stars.
I knew there was a reason Beverly Cleary was my favorite author when I was kid.
Back in the days when it was actually conceivable than an adult would allow a kid to ride in a bathtub tied to a trailer.
However, I can understand why they decided to update the illustrations.
Why, oh, why is it stil an all-white world that Henry lives in?
There is nothing in Cleary's books that say all the characters are white.
My favorite part in this book is when Henry grows five inches taller in 5 minutes. I love the Klickitat Street kids. Planning a reread of the 2 series very soon!
The Henry Huggins series of books by Beverly Cleary.
The Henry Huggins series contains the Ribsy series and meshes with the Ramona series.For our second--and the second largest--character series by Cleary, we moved from Ramona to Henry and his beloved dog, Ribsy.
His being a butthead is nothing compared to some more modern characters and situations my kids might read about.)Also, Ramona is not entirely consistent with her character in her namesake series.
Huggins was nice, but it was no Ramona.
Cleary is nice, but she's at her best with Ramona.
Read Ramona first, and if you want to stay in that world, try Huggins.
Review from an eight-year-old:"This is a book about a clubhouse and no girls allowed. Someone locked Henry inside on purpose because of this. I like the book because Henry and I have a lot in common and it's a funny story. My favorite part was when Henry got his name in the newspaper. I would rate this book 6 stars- the best!"8/5/13
Four stars BECAUSE the book allowed some good conversation about Halloween costumes (culture is not a costume!) and the "no girls allowed" rule.
It was great!
The kids loved listening to me read this out loud. Cleary's books are classic and they should be a part of every childhood.
She write about a time when kids had paper routes and wrote letters by hand (and not texting on their phones or computers) and looked up words in an actual dictionary (not computer spell check!)Was it just me or was anyone else impressed by Henry and his two friends building a clubhouse from scratch?
She would probably drive me insane as she does Henry, her sister Beezus and her mother among others :) I think this book should also include Henry's paper route.
It feels like it's more about his paper route than his clubhouse.
A Beverly Cleary classic. Just the right length audio book.
I read this out loud to my 6-year-old son and my 4-year old daughter occasionally listened, but wasn't as enthralled by it as some others we have read.
My son did pay attention, but I felt he also wasn't as interested as others.
I think this is a book for a very confident young reader, as the entire book was only 6 chapters long and each chapter was about 30+ pages - much too long for a reader new to chapter books.
This was not a page-turner, in that each chapter sort of had its own plot that wrapped up by the end.
Funny book but there are some now politically incorrect moments like Henry dressing up as an Indian for halloween. It was written in the 1960's.
George (age 5) and I listened to this while on a road trip.
He loved it so much he wanted to listen to it three times.
Even so I was surprised how much my son loved the stories given how out of time they are with life today.
That being said, unless we intend to throw out all the books from the past we have to just bring them to our children when they are ready to appreciate the storytelling with an understanding of the progress society has made to be more understanding of others since it was written.
Reading a book geared toward young children offers many advantages.
First, it clears away some of the darkness from reading fiction geared towards adults, particularly if one enjoys crime and horror novels.
Second, limited time doesn't pose as much of an issue since chapters can be read quickly in those few moments of alone time that life allows.
Third, when one has children, it reminds us of the wonder and joy in the simplest moments of childhood.
That being said, I enjoyed reading about Henry, his dog, and his friends as they built a clubhouse and enjoyed the learning experiences that come with it.
I was never a big fan of the Ramona books, but the Henry Huggins books are just delightful.
In this particular book, Henry decides to build a clubhouse.
He finances the clubhouse through creative thinking and his beloved paper route and builds it with a couple of his friends, one of whom insists that there are "No Girls Allowed!" in the clubhouse.
Henry somewhat reluctantly goes along with this, which has some interesting consequences for him.
I found the ending of this particular Henry Huggins book especially satisfying, and the kids love Henry and Ribsy as much as I do.
Paper routes, free-range children, writing letters to a TV show, all completely foreign today, yet there is great wholesome humor here that often operates on three or more levels. There's funny stuff for the little kids (Ramona's age), older kids (Henry & Beezus), and then for adults. My first revisit to Bev. Cleary books as an adult was delightful. Portland people get street name Easter eggs, also get to marvel at the idea of a 11-year-old using the city bus system independently .
Henry decides to build a clubhouse with his friends and has to balance working on that with his paper route. Ramona decides to follow henry on his paper route and he must cope with this as well. He learns to value both beezus and Ramona. There’s also a running joke about a mistaken name that cracked my 6 yo up every time.
Super entertaining and very heartwarming in terms of Henry's relationship with his parents. My favorite part is the bit in which Mrs. Huggins takes over Henry's paper route for a minute...and what Henry has to say about it. I laughed and laughed. And then I felt a little like crying. All of my little kids loved this on audio.
I liked this book a lot! It was about a boy named Henry who was living a normal life with normal problems. I liked it because it was relistic fiction and I really like realstic fiction. This book was funny, sad, and keep you wanting to read more!
Another good Henry book. We listened to the audio cds for this one, and it was well done. The boys loved the narrator’s voice portrayal of Ramona. Now we all quote, in the reader’s Ramona voice, “His name’s not Harry Higgins! It’s Henry Huggins!”
Henry decides that building clubhouse is a good idea, has to learn how to sell newspaper subscriptions, and ends up having Ramona be "his little shadow" - she wants to be a paper boy one day, too. Neil Patrick Harris narrates and does a great job.
We absolutely loved everything about the Henry Huggins series.
It was a really good book Beverly clearly Is a very good writer' but Its to bad that youcan't be a paper boy any more.
I think I have read this one before but it doesn't get old. hahaha It was a cute story
This is another very good book in the series about Henry Huggins. Me am enjoying this series Very much!
This was a charming, delightful read.
I just have loved reading this series w H.
When you want to just chill out in your childhood....what a delight to find that Neil Patrick Harris is narrating.
