https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50139.Kerouac
The received idea is that once On The Road beat-fame sluiced all over Kerouac's life he couldn't take it and he became a misanthropic drunk and eventually a dead beat, at the age of 47, cursing everything and everyone but especially the hippies he had so inspired.
In his last 10 years he also exhumed, prepared, polished and published :Visions of Cody (1951–1952; published 1960)Pic, novella (1951 & 1969; published 1971)Doctor Sax (1952; published 1959)Book of Dreams (1952–1960; published 1960)Maggie Cassidy (1953; published 1959)The Subterraneans, novella (1953; published 1958)Tristessa, novella (1955–1956; published 1960)Visions of Gerard (1956; published 1963)Man, that's a ton of work for a burnout drunk.
The definitive biography of Jack Kerouac.
Helps dispell the myth of Kerouac as a total free spirit and liberated beatnik who helped pave the way for the sixties.
Rather, it shows him to be the extremely conflicted man that he was, caught between two opposing value systems that he could not reconcile within himself and that eventually destroyed him, leaving him to retreat into isolation, alcoholism, and closed-mindedness at the end of his unfortunately short life.
I recommend paring this reading with "Ginsberg: A Biography" to get a complete portrait of the man, although the light shines on the Kerouac's torment and self-destruction even more harshly in the Ginsberg bio, to the point where it becomes depressing.
[...] Incontrandolo mi resi conto che la realtà dell'uomo Kerouac era tragica, ma che la particolarità del suo genio era stata quella di creare dei romanzi dalla tragedia della sua vita personale.
In quanto artista aveva trasformato la propria esistenza colma di sofferenze e l'aveva ampliata nella finzione letteraria perchè fosse più grande della vita stessa.
Excellent, intimate look at Kerouac's adult life. Nicosia's biography is richer, with more information and analysis of each of Kerouac's books. Where Charters succeeds is in giving us a vivid portrait of the tragedy of Jack Kerouac's life - a masterful, groundbreaking writer whose influence can still be felt, and the deeply flawed man. Jack Kerouac was Beat in both senses of the word. He was beaten down, crushed by his shyness and self doubts, as well as the pressures of being a celebrity. He was also beatific, always dreaming, always hopeful.
I don't think I've ever ready anything by Kerouac, but this was the second time I've read this biography from my personal library. Coincidentally I read it this time when the 50th anniversary of the publishing of his On the Road was being noted in the media, and so I heard a lot of supplemental biographical information on National Public Radio. It also meant more to me this time because I've had close personal encounters with individuals in the last five years who were selfish and/or self-destructive hedonists, and so now better understood that mindset.
I've always reviewed books for semi-business-like reasons, but the ones I really love, own?
maybe Krassner's Pot Stories next or I might kill myself before my jeans get around to it.I first read a teeny tiny bit of this book (not this edition, of course...) when I found it in (and stole it from) my mom's dresser when I was in 8th grade.
Then my dad spotted it and flipped his shit for reasons then unknown.As a picture of Kerouac, and even moreso of the times, I love this book.
Interesting...don't know how objective it is. Charters is good about putting all the facts in, but manages to excuse a lot of things that, if you were close to Kerouac and his compatriots, were probably not excusable. I enjoyed reading something set in the 1940s and 50s that wasn't Donna Reed-esque...reinforces that all the societal problems we have today were around, the mainstream and media just ignored them.
I would have given it more stars, if I hadn't read "Memory Babe". If you're looking for a brief overview of Kerouac's life, Charter's book will suit you just fine. If you're really interested in the beat generation, Kerouac and his work get the biography written by Nicosia.
Will tell you every little secret you did and didnt want to know about Kerouac. Warning, you might not like the guys persona after reading it. Youll respect him more as a writer...but youll find some things about him that you may not have found in his novels.
I realize you think you know all about Jack's life because that is what he mainly writes about, right? Not so fast my friend! Ann takes you behind the scenes, the real stories and Jack's maniacal writing sessions, fast and frenzied. Good read for Kerouac fans.
this is a Kerouac biography that I revisit at least once a year. Ann Charters gives me a glimpse into a world I can only wish I had been born early enough to witness firsthand.
a good critical work about kerouac's life and writing. gets under the public and mythic persona that has developed.
Definitive Biography of one of the greatest writers of all time. Kudos to Charters on the Research
enjoyable, easy to read, sad at the end.
My favorite bio on Dulouse! Charter gets her info right as far as I know, and she did get to work with him before he died. And I like Charter's style...lays it down, very readable.
One of the great bios I've read.
I thought I knew him like an old friend, "ol' reliable." And then I read this biography by Ann Charters, which gave me an entirely different perspective on the life and times of my beloved Kerouac.
There are things about Kerouac's life and behavior that are hard to come to terms with after having revered him and his writing for so long.
I now feel that I now Kerouac differently, but I feel like our writer-reader relationship is stronger than ever.
If nothing else, I now understand that Kerouac was human like the rest of us.
No doubt a must-read for any Kerouac aficionado.
3.5 / Really enjoyed reading this. Gave me a good idea of Kerouac's life to understand his works better and the time he lived in. Charters knew him so what she wrote seems more realistic and accurate than biographies of people just studying his works. I also really liked that its not just about him but also his friends and the people who influenced him. She doesn't conceal his bad characteristics though not giving a subjective opinion about them e.g. denying child support and care for his children

As far as I know this is the only author of a Kerouac biography who personally knew Kerouac. That makes it special for me.
Good in-depth read on the life of Jack Kerouac.
I had always read that Kerouac was troubled, leading a tumultuous life before finally dying from the effects of severe alcohol abuse.
This bothered me, as after reading On the Road a few times I had an inkling that the man was actually sweet and mostly harmless, despite the reputation that he obtained through the counter-culture content and themes of his books.
I have not read any other biography of Kerouac, though I can't imagine one being any more detailed.
The book is sufficiently detailed yet moves along quickly enough that the reader doesn't feel as though she is plowing through every detail of his life just to get to the interesting parts.
I was pretty disappointed with Charters' biography of Kerouac.
It just left me wanting a bit more.
I suspect perhaps that she got too close to him and his friends and family, and so she left out a few things that would have told us much more about the man behind the myth.
That said, it's still as thorough a biography as you can find on Kerouac, and that's certainly worth at least three stars.
If it were anyone other than Ann Charters, I might have given it another star, but I expected more insight from her.
Charters did a nice job of discussing his early work and the success he eventually found with On the Road, but I felt like her recounting of how his life spiraled downhill wasn't fleshed out enough. Ultimately, Jack is presented as someone who desperately wanted to be a hero, but found that it came with consequences he couldn't handle. That message of the book was conveyed effectively and heart-wrenchingly.
Sometimes I think that it takes a woman to write an honest biography, especially of a man, and I think that is exactly what Charters has done here. She sees through the mythology that has sprung up around Kerouac since his untimely death in 1969. In some ways, this is a tale of men behaving badly, even shockingly at times. But it also a fascinating insight into a sub culture of the post war years and a country coming to terms with itself after t
A thought out, intimate biography that reads like a narrative. charters seems to have done her homework compiling the life of a self destructive-alcoholic-zen loony-mommma's boy, who of course, captured the spirit of america in his writings. read this book if you love kerouac's books, because if you love his books than you love his life. i warn you, though, its damn depressing, and whoever your ideal jack kerouac is, be prepeared for the real one to fall short.
Tuttavad lood veel kord, aga ikka oli huvitav lugeda, vaene kurb ja pahur ja depressioonis ja millelegi lootev Kerouac on mu kangelane. Huvitav ka sellepärast, et nyyd tegeles nende mytologiseerimisega keegi teine ja väga mõistlikult.
More English paper research...
I'm finding out how gay the beat generation writers really were.
Another get one on Kerouac...
