https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371316.The_Memoirs_of_a_Survivor
At its many heights, I was reminded of one of my favorite movies ever, 'Spoorlooz' ("The Vanishing").
The golden egg, the absolute elements that make up the inside & the outside, their ever-separation...
Yep. Lessing is incredibly able at giving us an "autobiography" that seems more like a Picasso-esque self portrait than anything else; scribbles of nonsense as well as strict blocky absolutes--all less colorful than in the mind's eye.
I was also reminded of those superb short stories by J.
G. Ballard about undiscovered inner sanctums that are physical representations of the human brain.
Krajnja reakcija je bila jedno razočarano 'MEH'...Roman predstavlja neki vid memoara žene koja živi u gradu koji je uništen, kojim vladaju različite bande, vlada ne radi ništa kako bi to rešila, a stanovništvo se lagano seli u druge krajeve...
Jedan deo romana se svodi na posmatranje devojčice koja odrasta, formiranje bandi na ulici i njen ulazak u taj svet.
Druga stvar koja se provlači kroz roman jeste eskapologija glavne junakinje - koja kroz šare na tapetama na zidu prolazi u neki drugi svet u kome vidi prošlost devojčice.
Roman je na momente dosadan, i nije baš izbalansirano to prelaženje iz jednog sveta u drugi svet.
If I was asked to say what this book was about I would most likely answer “I dunno really, I feel real bad inside for not knowing.” Perhaps after all, one has to end the read by characterising it as a sort of cloud or emanation, but invisible, like the vapour you know is present in the air of the room that you sit in, makes part of the air that you know is there when you look out of a window – your eye is traversing air, so your intellect tells you when you look at a sparrow pecking insects off a twig; and you know that the air is part of the water vapour which at any moment – as a slap of cold air comes in from somewhere else – will condescend as mist or fall as rain.
Other books of this type at least have a story to tell but this is a literary refuse dump; boring words fill the pages.
Talent that is not wasted, for Lessing uses her uncanny skills to preserve her thoughts in a way that is incorruptible.But, I'm getting carried away.The book in question (Memoirs of a Survivor) is actually quite short, but it took me a semester to finish (which, considering who's reading it, isn't all that surprising, but that's beside the point).
Similarly, Lessing has taken the style and form of metaphor, replicated it exactly, and then given it a fantastical twist to make it her own.The girl, Emily, is a one of the most complex, fascinating characters that i have ever encountered in a novel.
The book consisted of three intermingled parts, the destruction of society, the growing up of Emily and the world behind the walls.
As things deteriorated outside she spent more time in a fantasy world that she was able to visit for hours at a time, sometimes there were huge empty rooms, sometimes lots of destruction, and sometimes scenes from Emily’s life.
They made a definite contrast to the realistic portrayal of the world falling apart.
biraz yavas akan ancak karanlik ve oldukca gercekci bir distopya. iletisim eksikligine, kadin erkek iliskilerine, insanoglunun icindeki az gelismis -gelismemis!- ilkel yaratiga, demokrasiye, ozgurluge, yonetenlere-yonetilenlere, dunyayi ve kaynaklarini kudurmuscasina ve umarsizca tuketisimize dair korkutan dusunduren muazzam bir kitap. uslubuna ve diline doyamadigimi ayrica belirtmek istiyorum. doris lessing ilk kez okuyorum. gec kalmis bir tanisma oldugunu soylemeliyim.
تجري أحداث الرواية في إحدى المدن ,( لم يكن لها اسما كما لم تُمنح بطلة الرواية اسما )هذه المدينة من ا
At first it seems like a heavy-handed metaphor but by the end of the book it seems as if it's genuinely real, a parallel dimension into which they can escape.
This and various other parts of the story seemed to be deliberately NOT explained in any coherent way, which I found very annoying.As a description of a future dystopia it's good.
As an actual story with a coherent and interesting plot, it's lacking.
And the characters aren't particularly sympathetic, nor is there much to the book OTHER than the description of the descent into dystopia.
The story of an unnamed protagonist who takes care of a mysterious girl in the aftermath of an unexplained fall of civilization is not for those who like to have their questions answered.
It is for those who like to gather new sets of questions.
It approaches human nature without drama, talking about acts of inexplicable violence in the same way as acts of duty, responsibility, and love.
In this way, the novel focuses on what cannot be explained, what can only be cared for, loved, and enjoyed.
من الكتب التي لم استطع اكمالها . اشعر ان اكثر من نصف الكتاب كتب فقط لملئ الفراغ فيه! وكأن الكاتبه تحاول اختبار مدى فلسفتها او مدى ثرثرتها!! لم افهم ماتقول في كثير من المقاطع لدرجه اني اقفز بين السطور لأعثر على جمله واحده مفيده او تتعلق بالقصه!!!! انها قصه تخلو من القصه نفسها.. لا انصح بتضييع الوقت في قرائته
M. Coetzee's books, specifically: white southern African writers often go for these dehistoricized, lean, spare, high-concept parables as a way of exploring human brutality.
Lessing and Coetzee's books don't have real people in them, and you can't really explore human nature and one's own complicity in evil through parables that contain no psychological complexity and ambiguity.
Lessing, by contrast, has not thought out her future in any political or sociological detail, fills it with stick figures, and seems to be hiding from the real issues—political, racial, and psychological.Someone try to convince me that it's worth picking up another book of hers.
It may not be fair for me to rate this book as I was not able to finish it.
I even thought of just deleting it from my book list - that's how I don't like it.
Much as I hate to leave a book unfinished, this isn't just worth my time and effort.
I won't mind if people will think of me as shallow, but in my opinion, deep subjects such as the one tackled in this book can be presented in a more interesting and engaging manner.
Doesn't matter if she's a Nobel Prize winner, if this is her style, I don't think we'll ever click.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٧تمزقات الحضارة بعيون المتعبين العاجزين..أسلوب محافظ وبريطاني جدا..يخاطبنا كلنا
She really has an eye for the fears and dystopian undercurrents in modern British society, and the ways in which these could feasibly develop, given certain conditions.The premise of collapse of infrastructure, of the disintegration of modern comforts: electricity, running water, etc, perhaps isn't really explained well enough for it to be as truly chilling as Nineteen Eighty-Four.
For example, the idea of the government continuing to act 'as normal', everything going on 'as normal' in such a farcical way whilst society collapses into anarchy is so utterly British.The questioning of the value of 'civilisation' also interested me.
The narrator seems to exist half in the past, half in the present, half in an imaginary world, half in the real world.
Yet the real future that seems so ominous and so obvious takes forever to come come and the imaginary world (surely that’s what it is?) becomes less and less believable.
Although I thought Lessing’s observations on human nature were insightful and well conveyed, it reminded me more of The Good Life than of other dystopian novels I have read.
I wasn’t sure who the narrator (did she have a name?) had been looking for all the time, nor did I understand who she found.
ذكرتني في جوها المستقبلي المتنبئ بالمزيد من الحرب والضياع بشئ من جو 1984 لأورويل (التي هي علامة بحد 
I asked the person who gave me the book for any suggestions, and she told me to just read it, enjoy it, and then read it again to get a feel for some of the heavier subject matter.Now, seriously, it's not a bad novel, but I'm not going to read it twice.
Disappoints me.Post-completion:Fucking bizarre.There is absolutely no consistency to this novel, aside from the dissolution of society.
well, the girl who is basically the primary character of the novel...
The ending baffled me and felt completely off-kilter.
given the progression of the story, there wasn't much that could have happened, but what did happen was completely out of nowhere.
A surreal and disturbing narrative exploring worldwide social disentegration from the calm, centred perspective of a middle aged woman caring for a mysterious child
Esta es una novela con un buen planteamiento y escrita con saber hacer, pero desarrollada de forma un tanto plúmbea.
La verdad es que en ocasiones me he aburrido como una ostra, especialmente cuando se trataba de la descripción de las innumerables habitaciones reales e inventadas.
En cuanto a la técnica narrativa, al principio me parecía interesante la elección de un narrador testigo en primera persona, que cuenta la historia de Emily desde sus propias limitaciones.
Pero creo que habría podido hacerse de una forma más amena.
She, though, is only half in reality and reverts through a wall to explore earlier times and memories.
The key person in the story is a teenage girl called Emily who was brought to the house for the narrator to care for.
Emily is resourceful, young and fall hopelessly in love with Gerald.
The beauty of the book is Lessing's wonderful imaginative capturing of real life as it could be.
We never learn where Emily came from and are left to surmise.
We explore 'It' the danger that it is out there, and 'it' is presented as the new norm, one without language proficiency, basic necessities, and a barrel full of resourcefulness.
It's set in a post-apocalyptic town just as all civic order is starting to fall apart.
There is nothing preachy about it, and the post-apocalyptic setting is necessary to tell the story, but it isn't itself the story.
Most of the novel takes place in one older woman's home, where she and a child and a house pet try to figure out how to live with chaos and collapse spiralling around them.
I will also say that Hugo the species-undecided house pet is one of the most perfect, gutwrenching characters I've ever encountered in a novel.
I love Lessing & the first 50 pages and last 20 or 30 were absolutely phenomenal - deeply disturbing thought experiments about the downfall of the civilized world.
But an anti-dystopia, I suppose, since - sort of like Atwood's Handmaid's Tale - the novel is told with the profoundest sense of tunnel vision.
But as I said, the beginning and end seem to me a quite inventive approach to dystopia.
I find her dry (though I love this), so her s-o-c isn't Woolf & it's not Joyce.
It's Lessing doing it.
Askerdeyken okuduğum kitaplardandı ve ruh halime çok uygun düşmüştü.
Ben de yavaşa yavaş duvarlarla konuşmaya başlamış , duvarlara bakarak çok değişik ufuklara yol açamaya başlamıştım.
Dünyanın sonu ya da en kötü günleridir artık.
Bir de kız çocuğu gelir yaşlı karakterimize evine ve hiç tanımadığı bu kız çocuğunun bakımını ve koruyuculuğu üstlenir.
Kitapta, dönemimizin ciddi sorunları olan iletişimsizlik , yalnızlık, hava kirliği , doğal kaynakların yok oluşu, açlık gibi durumlar başarılı bir şekilde , bambaşka bir biçimde bizlere aktarılmakta ve hatırlatılmaktadır.
Lessing'in özellikle bu kitabındaki anlatımı ve betimlemeleri çok başarılıdır.
beautiful exploration of 'girlhood' during the fall of western civilization
recomand
It also considers how to reconcile an element of violent disorder with a vision of peaceful anarchy/intentional community, as Gerald and Emily deal with gangs of increasingly feral and animalistic children.
Perceived towards the end of the novel as a "yellow stain" on the wallpaper, this opening up read to me as an homage to Charlotte Perkins Gilman.It is unclear whether Emily and Hugo (neither cat nor dog) came from this parallel universe, or whether there are multiple universes and timeframes the narrator has access to.
Or is her ability to access these parallel worlds what will ultimately save Emily, Gerald, Hugo, and maybe even the feral children whom Gerald refuses to believe are beyond redemption?
Helmet-lukuhaaste 2017 37.
Kirja kirjailijalta, jonka tuotantoon kuuluu yli 20 teostaDoris Lessing:Eloonjääneen muistelmat(1974, ensimmäinen suomennos 1988)Hämmentävä, vaikeaselkoinen, vangitseva.
Tätä kaikkea on Lessingin romaani englantilaisesta kaupungista tuhon jälkeen (tuhon syytä ei tarkemmin selitetä).
Tiivistä kerrontaa, merkityksellisiä ja täyteen pakattuja virkkeitä.
Keski-ikäinen nainen seuraa yhteiskuntajärjestelmän tuhoa ikkunastaan.
Sähkön- ja vedenjakelu pätkii, kauppajärjestelmä on romahtanut, hallinto lähettää yhä eriskummallisempia tiedotteita.
Eräänä päivänä, keskellä sekasortoa, naisen luokse tulee mies, joka jättää naisen huollettavaksi nuoren tytön, Emilyn.
Nainen ei voi olla enää pelkästään tarkkailija, vaan hänen on pohdittava suhdettaan tyttöön ja tytön pärjäämistä.
Lisäksi ajatuksia herättää seinäntakainen rinnakkaismaailma, joka aukee naiselle aika ajoin.Hidasta luettavaa, mutta palkitsee.
En väitä ymmärtäneeni kaikkea.
Some extremely powerful narrative interspersed amongst a lot of waffling prose. An excellent example of how beautiful and introspective science-fiction can be, but I struggled to get into the narrative due to seemingly never-ending sentences and the MC having the linguistic conviction of a flip flop.
Genre-defying work that both develops speculative & post-apocalyptic fiction and moves beyond the expectations of those genres. Lessing seems to be concerned not with (mans/)explaining technology and society, but with observing human behavior and interiority. She also engages in a redefinition or reexamination of "reality," or the representation of reality through language. The only parallel that comes to mind is Anna Kavan's Ice, which is another novel that is set in an apocalyptic world but is mostly concerned with its characters, their interiority, and their relationships with each other.
It was a nightmare. I understand that it was supposed to be like a nightmare, so well done.
