https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98969.The_First_Circle
What this novel, 'First Circle' reveals to the first-time reader will be a major surprise, too.
For, not only did Solzhenitsyn write the most gripping true-to-life indictments to emerge from his culture; not only was he one of the most gifted historians since WWII--but with works like this, he dominates the sphere of Slavic fiction.
Solzhenitsyn takes everything he gathered up in 'Gulag Archipelago' and condenses it into literary form.Ostensibly a story of falsely-incarcerated Russkie intellectuals all struggling against the inexorable prison regime--striving to hang on to their souls--while at the same time, unwilling to admit that they even possess souls...the plot itself is indescribable.
The end of all personal liberties of any meaningful nature.
Remember the uppermost circle of Hell where Dante rather wistfully, and certainly mercifully, puts all the great writers of the Classical Age?
Sotto voce...And the wrongfully-imprisoned but wisecracking and fairly comfortable intellectuals who reside here, very much against their will, are like the denizens of Dante‘s first circle, “not unhappy”, as our long-suffering grandparents used to say.
Not an "easy" read like Solzhenitsyn's A DAY IN THE LIFE OF IVAN DENISOVICH, but intellectually much more rewarding if you can plow through the hundreds of different characters and intersecting plotlines.
A wonderfully intimate portrait of Soviet intellectual society from within the elit "First Circle" of the Soviet Gulag.
Solzhenitsyn's philosophy, social commentary, and desire to convey the true experience of the camps draws out the writing at times, but a very rewarding book.
Pretty much built my senior thesis off the fascinating paradox between physical and intellectual freedom in the Soviet Union....me and my Russian lit, what can I say?
"And a great warmust be preceededby a great purge"  Description: Set in Moscow during a three-day period in December 1949, The First Circle is the story of the prisoner Gleb Nerzhin, a brilliant mathematician. At the age of thirty-one, Nerzhin has survived the war years on the German front and the postwar years in a succession of Russian prisons and labor camps. His story is interwoven with the stories of a dozen fellow prisoners - each an unforgettable human being - from the prison janitor to
Description: Set in Moscow during a three-day period in December 1949, The First Circle is the story of the prisoner Gleb Nerzhin, a brilliant mathematician.
At the age of thirty-one, Nerzhin has survived the war years on the German front and the postwar years in a succession of Russian prisons and labor camps.
A landmark of Soviet literature, The First Circle is as powerful today as it was when it was first published, nearly thirty years ago.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jg-kc...3* One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich ...
The Gulag Archipelago 1918-1956 (Unrated for a reason)3* Cancer WardCR The First Circle3* Matryona's House And Other Stories 4* We Never Make Mistakes: Two Short Novels

Somewhere in the Stone Reader documentary, likely its bonus features, a critic named The First Circle as the last novel of the 19th Century.
The isolation of Soviet themes was likely exaggerated by the critic but the novel itself doesn't appear to reveal self-awareness: perhaps such would also be a violation of Article 58.
As tragic as this tale of a neutered Hell of sorts remains, it begs so many questions about the nature of penal system in the Soviet Union.
Cross-purposes appeared to proliferate with exposure to air.
My naievety albeit bruised and riddled will likely cling for my life's extent.
The Soviets certainly knew how to efficiently destroy anyone with a sentence to the Gulag.
The thought of fighting the Nazis from ‘41-45 only to wind up in the gulag for 10 or 25 years is just horrific to contemplate.
He was imprisoned at the beginning of the war for “anti-Soviet propaganda,” the result of a denunciation cooked up by some neighbors who wanted his apartment and afterward got it.
Also, following the denunciation, they found two radio tubes in a box in his apartment.This story remains relevant today.
Just imagine how pervasive and oppressive the Soviet gulag system would be with the technology of today!
They are all engineers and nerdy sorts who got busted for stuff like talking on the phone and writing letters ("letters" are those things people used to write before e-mail, btw) about stuff Stalin didn't approve of whose skills benefit Papa Stalin in one way or another.The story takes place in only three days, though you really wouldn't know it to read this book because a) it's almost 700 pages (and that's not even the uncensored version which was released in 2009), b) Solzhenitsyn includes so much back-story of every character that you don't realize aren't the main focus of the story as a whole, and c) did I mention it's almost 700 pages?It took me a long time to read because Life, but also because for a long while I had trouble getting into the story.
Because of this, he gets assigned to work on a speech recognition project.
To be exact, it's not speech recognition per se; it's what we call speaker ID, identifying a person by the sound of their voice.
This technology is now quite good, and many of the key ideas were developed at SRI International while I was there, though I wasn't involved in that particular project.
The SRI techniques have been commercialized in the Nuance speech recognition platform, which I use all the time.
Well, they're in hell now, but, as the title suggests, this is the most comfortable part of Stalin's Inferno.
While it is overtly a story of talented engineers and technical types in a "special prison" in the Stalin era Soviet Union, it is an apt allegory of the workplaces in which many of us have, at times, found ourselves.While typically Solzhenitsyn in style, it is appreciably less "dense" than many of his works.
Others are the clueless and unreflective or even consciously malevolent beasts who have made your work life hell.This is one of the 2 or 3 books that, on any given day, I might describe as my all-time favorite.
Solzhenitsyn blends all aspects of humanity into a single narrative, what he can't contain in this book, naturally spills over into Cancer Ward and it's brilliant how he kept his themes together while letting them expand into each other.
Cancer Wards is community and looking within yourself while in naturally imposed prison.Read one or both of these books, together or separate, they can each stand alone and reading either one before the other is alright too.My Original Review:Dear Mr. Solzhenitsyn,Those were the best 38 pages I've ever read in my life.
I'll never forget those words and I'll revisit this book at the end of the year, after I've read more Russian Lit and Western Classics.
"The old seminary church (sharashka) was like an ark, with sides four bricks and a half, floating serenely and aimlessly through the black ocean of human destinies and human errors, leaving behind fading rivulets of light from its portholes...From here, from the ark forging confidently ahead through the darkness, the erratically meandering stream of accursed history was clearly visible---visible in its entirety, as though from an immense light, yet in detail, down to the last little pebble on t
can only envision with the atrocious presence of the culpable man himself in the novel, casting his dark shadow over the barren land of spiritless people without a God. To which, Solzhenitsyn endeavors to bring out the grim realities of his time through his own eyes as though peering into a spy hole that opens up to an ideology indifferent to human compassion, providing a much larger perspective of a debilitating suppression that is completely against the innate freedom bestowed to any human being as he ironically shows as well the resilience of man even amid the strictest prohibition.This resilience appears as a silent cry of a benumbed spirit that seems to be an unobtrusive thematic trait of the novel as it circumvents all the characters in conquering fear against the very terror brought by their own wasted lives from an unjust imprisonment of indefinite time, becoming their only hold to go through their deathlike lives amid the severe isolation of the non-floating Ark of Stone, a haven compared to the hellish pit of the Gulag that awaits them all.
Read it some years ago and coming across it encouraged me to reread it which I'm doing at present. What a treat!
The zeks know that they have it better than a “regular” gulag prisoners but they are faced with the moral dilemma; to aid a political system they oppose or be transferred to the deadly labour camps.Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn is a Russian author as well as a historian; he was also a critic of Soviet totalitarianism which found himself in prison much like Gleb Nerzhin.
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn has lead an interesting life and I am keen to read more of his novels before attempting The Gulag Archipelago, his three volume book on the history of a gulag labour camp.
The mental torture inflicted on every prisoner is as hideous as it is subtle – uncertainty.Men taken at night without any warning; letters to and from families intercepted and destroyed; lights switched on in the middle of the night; meals not turning up; books taken away – Solzhenitsyn shows us how the human spirit can be crushed by taking away the smallest thing we take for granted.
It's too bad he's become so reactionary and 'anti-cosmpolitan' ie Great Russian nationalistic.
I need to reread it--this new translation includes all the camp slang and profanity.
When I was learning Russian, back in the early middle ages, they had to assemble a little dictionary when Solzhenitsyn was first published in the west.
Even Russian speakers had never seen this kind of profanity.
it was called "the Little Book of Russian Profanity", it was small and green, stapled, and you fell out of your seat laughing.
The book is the picture of the dark clouds in the sky named humankind.
This book is the romanticism of torture, harshness of utopia and cruelty against all and everybody who meant to be just equal citizens.
This book is about the Soviet regime.
The regime which ignored souls and individualism.
The Regime which tried to get everything from everybody.
Solzhenitsyn is simply genius in terms of delivering these ideas of the darkness of the red empire.
Nevertheless, it is worth it if you are truly interested how the Regime treated true leaders, intelligence and simply the persons who used to think independently from the silly ideology dominated.
I read this novel when a student of Russian language and literature back in the day. At the time I realized that Solzhenitsyn was one of the masters of Russian literature, on equal footing with Tolstoy et al. Solzhenitsyn's great strength (one of them, at any rate) is his portrayal of people striving to maintain their integrity and dignity under a soul-destroying and punitive totalitarian system.A New York Times review from 1968 describes The First Circle as "an astounding piece of political journalism as well as a literary work of art". Highly recommend.
If you’ve read One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch, I would say this is like that only on steroids or this is like that meets War and Peace (as it is phenomenally long, uses historical facts and figures, follows multiple characters, and is completely engrossing.
If you liked One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch this is a 100% must read.
If you haven’t read much Russian literature, start with One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch and if you like it, read this.
Given that the plot of this huge book stretches only through three days or so, and not a huge amount actually happens in this time (it's not a thriller) it's still totally captivating.Solzhenitsyn's strength is his characters.
The really remarkable thing is that you like all of them, despite their myriad of perspectives, philosophies, and dogmas.
it's worth rereading if you've only had the older one.
Also, Solzhenitsyn loves to let his characters soliloquize about philosophy, but he avoids being preachy- it's actually nuanced and interesting if a bit tiresome.
Overall more than worth the read.
"Yes, what awaited them was the taiga and the tundra, the Cold Pole at Oymyakon, the copper mines at Dzhezkazgan. What awaited them yet again was the pickax and the wheelbarrow, a starvation ration of half-baked bread, hospital, death. They could look forward to nothing but the worst.Yet in their hearts they were at peace with themselves.They were gripped by the fearlessness of people who have lost absolutely everything-such fearlessness is difficult to attain, but once attained, it endures."This book. This book. I. Have. No. Words.
A brilliant novel that leaves the readers heart trembling in fear and sadness for each character.
Solzhenitsyn transports the reader into the world of the Gulag so fully that when the novel is done, one will hug one's family, eat something out of the fridge just because it's there, and cherish the freedom given them.
Not only does Solzhenitsyn describe the Gulags, sharashkas (special prisons), and life in the Soviet Union more eloquently than is possible in non-fiction, he also thoroughly examines morality; from several political angles (Marxism, Socialism, Democracy) as well as a religious one, each of the zeks (prisoners) presents his case for the most moral society and leaves the reader with mixed thoughts.
This is the finest literary work among all the books A.S. wrote, in my opinion.
Its theme is of human freedom: where it resides in the human spirit, how to preserve it, and the role of creativity in survival have made this book an integral part of my own philosophy of life.
It has many levels but hit me hardest in a deeply spiritual place.
It caused me to stop and think about my reason for living, beyond emotion, past relationships, except for the ultimate one, that with self.
That is where choice resides.
When we have nothing left to lose, choice is still an option.
Another scathing critique of Stalinist Russia with the trappings of a thriller/mystery. A crack team of investigators (all prisoners of the Gulag) is assembled to investigate who leaked nuclear secrets to the Americans. With daring and ingenuity, they eliminate all but two suspects - but there is no further evidence. Both suspects are arrested anyway. Who else but Solzhenitsyn could come up with a novel like this?
Marphino is not a fictional place - it is the real prison where Solzhenitsyn spent some period of his long-term imprisonment for the expansive criticism of Stalin's regime.
Firstly, the book contains many specific slang words representative for the Soviet prison camps of the time.
Some chapters of the fifth edition were first published in 1965, while the full version of the book first appeared in Europe in 1968.I think, even if "In the First Circle" would be Solzhenitsyn's only novel, his Nobel Prize in Literature would still be entirely deserved.
I knew this was set largely in a prison, so was prepared to read about a lot of physical pain, starvation, and so on.
But the tearing down of these men's spirits and the destruction of lives and families was quite heartbreaking.(view spoiler)[It really is heartbreaking to think of what so many people endured at the hands of Stalin and his regime.
And because the state controlled most everything (jobs, housing, schools, etc.), people were rewarded for this awful behavior (or avoided becoming targets themselves).What is stunning is toll that the prison takes on the spirits of these men.
Set in a 'special prison' in Moscow during the height of Stalin's paranoia, this is ostensibly a story about a group of incarcerated engineers working to create various surveillance technology during the Cold War. The plot, as such, while interesting, isn't really the best thing about the book.
It's more of a stage upon which to explore the different personalities of the men in the prison, why they happen to find themselves in this, the most lenient part of the Gulag system (hence the title), their politics and individual stories, how the disappointments of the Revolution have turned them into cynics or made them hold ever tighter to their ideals.
I can see why he had to chop out entire subplots and character backstories to get it past the Russian censors at first, since he did not paint Stalin or life in Russia at the time in a positive light, but I'm glad he later had the entire thing published and that the uncensored version is the one I read.
It has so much detail about how life really was for the Russians under Lenin and Stalin, which I think is something everyone should know, if only to hopefully prevent it from ever happening again.
Con Solzhenitsyn no es posible la lectura rápida porque él no escribe para los ojos, sino para el corazón; debemos dejar reposar sus palabras en nuestras mentes para entender la profundidad de sentimiento -que no de dificultad intelectual- que conllevan.Este primer círculo, haciendo referencia al infierno de Dante, es el más alejado del meollo infernal que era la Rusia soviética de Stalin, pero aún alejado del meollo era parte de ese Gulag carcelístico.
In this book he decimates justifications for the existence and the illusion of security or privilege of three kinds of "first circles":1.
Characters of this novel, like Solzhenitsyn himself were born into the Soviet Union.
I couldn't re-tell or quote them all here, because they are far too many, but I will recommend people who like philosophy or just like questions about what makes a just society, or a good life, or what is progress, to read it for themselves.There's also a healthy warning which seems apt in the current climate in the West: "The West was doomed just because it lived so well – and lacked the will to risk its life in defence of the good life.
