https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132692.Mastering_the_Art_of_French_Cooking
Is it just me that can't imagine the real Julia Child as Julia? I only see Meryl Streep now! Anyway, this book is beautifully detailed! I think Julia and Simone outdone themselves, it's detailed, generous and very well executed! It's remarkable to see what women can do when they set their minds on something, of course they got help from the people around them. I love how invested Paul was in his wife's career and her love of cooking. Some of the illustration and all the photographs were made by him! Beautiful couple!
Say what you will - out-dated, dense, whatever criticism you can offer - Mastering the Art... Vol. 1 & 2 are still the seminal books on the art of French cooking a la haute cuisine. I worked my way through Volume 1 years ago, when I thought my ex-husband (being Portuguese and having lived in France many years) would appreciate it. I stopped doing it for him when he poured Tabasco all over my Beef Bourguignon without tasting it first, but I continued cooking "Julia" for myself.

The book size is that of a novel (20cm x 13cm).
The book cover is not laminated and will gather kitchen stains very quickly.4.
There is a conversion table on page 18, but one needs to have a calculator handyMy idea of a decent cookbook is one that is resilient, pages stay open so that you can refer to it while cooking.
Readabilty is also important, and a font of 1mm in height does not qualify.This excellent book has been ruined by this silly layout/ formatting and "mass paperback" look.
Rather go for the larger sized books with a hardcover.
browsed thru it at the library - the section on baking bread is fantastic - detailed and very useful.also saw the "beef case" in there - the way they described it as an ingenious dish that will even surprise the diners who have eaten everything - i lol'ed. enjoyed the unexpected wit there.
I tried most of the recipes except the ones that require 7 hours in the kitchen. They all delivered and made me love French cooking even more. Now I need to read volume 1!
I am struggling with the format of this book.
I reckon there are some gems of information here but the way the layout is set up is near impossible to follow.
Love her prefix to each recipe and the descriptions of what might have gone wrong and techniques for how to succeed - it is how the ingredients and tools for each recipe are set out.
Not in a format I am used to and thus I am tempted to write them out for myself in a format that I find useable.
I will press on undaunted, however, because I hate when a book beats me!
This is fun to flip through after reading "Dearie," though there are only so many recipes I would attempt, mostly in the chicken & eggs sections. It's unbelievable how hard Julia Child worked on this book, but it's cool, too, how well documented the process was because of her letters to/from Avis DeVoto and others. Simone Beck worked very hard also, but Julia did all the typing, from what I understand.
Volume 1 has been in my life since I was a child, and I have an early edition in hardcover. I don't like to keep that family heirloom in the kitchen. Heat, moisture, and grease are bad for treasured books. But I recently found both volumes in this Knopf paperback re-issue - at the Goodwill for 25 cents each. Yay! Kitchen-safe volumes - and Volume 2 for the first time.
This book seemed to be written for those unfamiliar with cooking and using a kitchen. The recipes seemed so long and daunting until you realized that the author wrote out nearly every detail, including listing a lid for your pot in the ingredients list. The recipes were interesting but didn't get my taste buds watering. Sorry, Julia fans.
Ok, I can't say I've read it or even cooked anything from it yet, but I just picked up a used copy at a library book sale. Julia's writing is so sweet and funny, often unintentionally, and unlike any cookbooks being published today. Plus, her diplomat husband Paul does all the illustrations! Who can argue with that?
Much like the first book but even less easier to follow. Again the recipes are quite retro. There is a lot of irrelavent information and again wouldnt be recommending it to the novice cook because it is just too much effort to read and follow.
Not as amazing as the first one, and I don't feel that this one stood on its own as well, but it's a interesting compliment if you enjoyed the first one. If you're only planning to buy one, get the first. If you get the first and become mildly obsessed with it, this is a solid followup.
Volume Two finally came to stand by its mate on my shelf – I’m looking forward to learning from it as I did the first.
I got this book mainly for the French Bread recipe which proved quite complicated (twenty pages worth), but found it interesting.
Can't wait until I actually have time to try some of the recipes...
Yet another wonderful book essential for the everyday cook. Has aged very well.
I confess I have several copies of this and vol. 1 in various paperback and hardback form, most secondhand and most well used, need I say more?
Have yet to dwell overmuch in this one, still looking over the first volume.
This cookbook has stood the test of time, especially with the editing that was done when it was reissued. I have cooked several things from it with success.
On page 117 - two chapters down, now onto Eggs! Who knew it was possible to make your one mayonaise with olive oil. Now I want to try..
Next Julia's going to teach me how to master French bread. Can't wait to experiment.
Memasak adalah seni, penikmatnya adalah pengagum seni memasak :)
Not much in here that we'd eat on a day to day basis; however, I loved reading Julia's words and learning her techniques. I would love to own the set.
I'll cook my way through this lovely book the rest of my life.
I love Julia!
Only reason this is minus a star is because it often refers to Volume 1, which I don't have. Yet. (Found a pristine 1st edition of Volume 2 for $6, could not pass it up!)
a must for everyone who enjoys their kitchen
This is a masterpiece of her time
.....mmm...zucchini casserole
