https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2133795.Savvy
The book Savvy by Ingrid Law is a fantastic fantasy novel.It's about a girl named Mibs who is turning thirteen, and in her family, turning into a teenager means that she will receive her special ability called a Savvy.
In the book Savvy Mibs lives between Nebraska and Kansas, she is no ordinary girl.
In conclusion this book really interested me, and raised multiple questions in my mind, such as "What would my Savvy be?" and "Would my Savvy be life changing?" I would really recommend this book to elementary students and above.
Meh. I wanted to like Savvy, but it felt manipulative and overwritten to me...
I felt like it lacked both strength and authenticity.
The story itself could have stood on its own, and with a different writing style I might have enjoyed it.
I like stories of adolescents coming into a hereditary talent or power, though that's hardly an original idea.
And I enjoy stories with strong families.
But the bulky writing had me rolling my eyes the whole time, keeping me from enjoying the potentially exciting plot.
I can think of some parents who might luxuriate in it as a read-aloud, and children perhaps enjoying it that way.
از دغدغه های بچه ها، راه حل هاشون برای مشكلات، احساساتشون، دعاهاشون :)) شاید ایرادی كه بشه از این كتاب گرفت این باشه كه خطرات موجود در جهان بیرون رو اصلا نشون نمیده و شاید به صورت ناخودآگاه، بچه ها رو به داشتن اعتماد بی چون و چرا به غریبه ها تشویق كنه.
بنابراین توصیه من اینه كه اگه این كتاب رو به كوچولویی دادین یا براش خوندین، حتما براش توضیح بدین كه با وجود اینكه ادم های خوب زیادن اما اونا نباد هرگز سوار ماشین غریبه ها بشن یا با اونا جایی برن.
The book is an intriguing look into the life of an extra special family known as the Beaumont's.
The story focuses on the young protagonist Mississippi (Mibs) Beaumont who is rapidly approaching this fateful date.
When her father is involved in a car accident, Mibs and her two brothers (along with a few tag-alongs) set out on a journey to visit their father in the hospital.Savvy is a wonderful book aimed primarily at young adults, but also easily accessible to an older age group.
While often hilarious and zany, Savvy remains grounded in the traditional wholesome family values we have come to expect from the Walden brand.
یک فانتزی ساده و دلنشین و در عین حال جذاب و زیبا!مدت زمان زیادی میشد که کتابی با این تم نخونده بودم و حالا هم متوجه شدم که اشتباه میکردم که به سمت چنین داستانهایی نمیرفتم.ساوی نظرم رو بهطور کامل دگرگون کرد. داستان راجع به خانوادهی بومانته.خانوادهای که بسیار خاص و شگفت انگیزن، و چیزی که اون ها رو از دیگران تمایز میده ویژگیای هست که به اون ساوی میگن، و حالا ساوی چیه؟ ساوی یک نیرو و انرژی درونیه که در هنگام تولد سیزدهسالگی هر فرد در خانوادهی بومانت پدیدار میشه، ساوی ها هم به نوبهی خودشون متفاوتن، م
داستان راجع به خانواده‌ی بومانته.خانواده‌ای که بسیار خاص و شگفت انگیزن، و چیزی که اون ها رو از دیگران تمایز می‌ده ویژگی‌ای هست که به اون ساوی میگن، و حالا ساوی چیه؟ ساوی یک نیرو و انرژی درونیه که در هنگام تولد سیزده‌سالگی هر فرد در خانواده‌ی بومانت پدیدار میشه، ساوی ها هم به نوبه‌ی خودشون متفاوتن، مثلا ساوی طوفان و الکتریسیته و ...شخصیت اصلی داستان میبزه که در آستانه‌ی تولد سیزده‌سالگیش قرار داره و انتظار می‌کشه تا ببینه ساویِ خودش چجوریه.اما متاسفانه کمی قبل از تولدش متوجه میشه که پدرش تصادف سختی کرده و در حال حاضر هم حال رو روز مساعدی نداره، مادر و پسر بزرگتر خانواده، میبز و اعضای دیگر خانواده رو ترک میکنن تا برای کمک به بیمارستانی که پدر در اونجا بستری شده برن، و حالا یک سری اتفاقات میوفته و میبز تصور می‌کنه که شاید ساوی‌ش قدرت بیدار کردن داشته باشه.
(I can't wait to discover what Mib's quiet younger brother, Samson, will get!)A few days before Mibs' special birthday, her father is in a serious car accident and in a hospital almost 100 miles a way in Salina, Kansas.
Thinking that her savvy is the power to wake animals and people up, she sets off on the quest to visit her dad and cure him herself.Mibs finds a pink bible-salesman’s bus with "Salina" on the side to hide in, but Samson and Fish find her and decide to join in the impromptu journey, along with family friends Bobbi and Will Jr.The characters in this book are lovable.
Mib's description of her father, for instance: He was good and sweet and had wild black eyebrows that twisted like dancing beetle legs...." In my mind I can see those eyebrows, dancing over a big grin.And this line rings true, I believe: Lester might not have looked the part of a hero, but I suppose you never can tell right off who might have a piece of Prince Charming deep down inside.
Beautiful, and so true.But I think my favorite thought of Mibs' from the book is this one that comes about 2/3 of the way through: Maybe we all have other people's voices running higgledy-piggledy through our heads all the time.
(Btw Grandpa Bomba is at home with the other Beaumont sibling.)4) Mibs discovers that her special magical power is hearing the thoughts of people through ink on their skin.5) The kids and bus driver and another "hitchhiker" travel through different cities until they finally arrive at the hospital.6) Mibs tells her dad that even though he's "human," he still has a magical power which is that he never gives up.7) Family returns home.
(Btw kids, it's really okay to hitchhike because it's a pink Bible Bus.)4) But Lill is more of a responsible adult because she makes them call their parents...but isn't clever enough to know that the kids trick her by not really calling their parents.
Since I'm a native Kansan I knew I was going to like the book even more because of that little fact.Mississippi (most commonly known as Mibs) is just about to turn thirteen.
A big step in any kid's life, but in Mib's family turning thirteen means a whole lot more than becoming a teenager, you also get your savvy.
Now it's Mibs turn to see what savvy she'll receive on her birthday.
It really hits on the point that it's hard to know somebody by just looking at them, and friends come from the most unlikely places.I will definitely will be reading the sequel Scumble.
An challenging, but fun read. Contains the exploration of emotions, characters, and plot.
This is one of the most engaging stories/narrators I have read in awhile.
There's a great magical realism/tall-tale feel to it, which is refreshing in a ya book.Savvy is the story of Mibs (Mississippi) Beaumont and her rather unusual family.
At 13, every member of the Beaumont family discovers they have a "savvy," a special power of some sort.
Mibs' father is the only member of the Beaumont family with no special powers, having married in.
The resulting story is a discovery of self for each character, from their own talents and savvies, to their loves and feelings and inner stength.I know I made that sound really cheesy, but it's not.
Rocket, Mibs's brother, has the savvy of being able to control electricity.
Mibs, Fish, her little brother, Samson, and two of the minister's kids run away to find Poppa.
SAVVY is the story of their adventures crossing Nebraska and Kansas, trying to control savvys, which is called scumbling, learning to see the good in people, and, of course, the courage it takes to act on your ideals and love.
So if you want to read a really good story about growing up or if you just love the sound of language, then this is the book for you.
Here's was my write-up for the bookstore:It's chock-full of delicious words & phrases:"hobbledehoy boy" "fizgiggley girls" "persnickety moment""niminy-piminy thing" "razzmatazz radio" "full hokeypokey""marching herky-jerky""becoming discombobulated" "a jig shy of jaybird-naked" "oom-pah-pah polka music""grizzled cornfields"  "heebie-jeebies" It's illuminated with poetic sentences:"A small black-and-white television sat on top of one of the filing cabinets, its antenna aslant and festooned with bows of crumpled aluminum foil."It's 57th Street Kid Critic Approved!"I really liked this book!
It got scary at times and sometimes I would have to stop reading and think about something for a minute to really understand it.
This book was about a girl named Mibs.
This book - so disappointing.
On like page 150 they were still on the bus!
I am not sure if this is supposed to be an adventure book or what but some, I don't know excitement would have been preferable.
Of course the kids names have to do with their powers (Rocket-electricity, Fish-water) even though the parents didn't know what their kids savvies would be at the time of their birth.
And really, I was excited to have them finally get off the bus, but then they got back on?
This book was a waste of paper.
ارزشش رو داشت. حتی اگه شده فقط برای این که با دنیایی آشنا شیم که قدرتهای عجیب غریبش، اونقدرا هم عجیب غریب نبودن. تا باور کنیم هرکدوممون یه ساوی داریم. یه موهبت درون. فقط کسی هنوز روشون اسم نذاشته.
ارزشش رو داشت. حتی اگه شده فقط برای این که با دنیایی آشنا شیم که قدرت‌های عجیب غریبش، اونقدرا هم عجیب غریب نبودن. تا باور کنیم هرکدوممون یه ساوی داریم. یه موهبت درون. فقط کسی هنوز روشون اسم نذاشته.
One of the books I read when I was younger, but still love
When i first picked up this book, I was confused.
I didn't understand why the words were so odd, why the writing format seemed strange, and even how to book was printed out.
After a while, I went back to it.
The first few pages I didn't understand, As i'm a fast reader, so I went back and read it again.
The book has taught me to read slower, and to reread if i don't understand.
Savvy has amazing characters, and there's just so much emotion in the story.
This story deserves the newbery award it was given.
It’s hard to believe that this book was mostly in the course of one day.
Twelve/Thirteen wasn’t the best time for me so I tend to pick older or younger protagonists to avoid the period all together, but I heard this was such a good book from reviews and it’s a modern day fantasy and that is always something I like.
The road trip on your birthday isn’t exactly ideal, especially when you’re about to find out what your Savvy (sort of like a magical power) is.
Some of the younger characters like Fish and Mibs act more mature than I would’ve expected for their age but it was believable to me.
In the Beaumont family, a 13th birthday activates your "savvy," giving you a special power that is uniquely yours.
Each person's savvy is always a big surprise, so the family always gets a little nervous as the big day approaches.
The Beaumont kids and their friends are stowaways on the bus, trying to get to Salina where Poppy (Dad) is in the hospital.
I would have adored this book when I was about 9 or 10, and my rating reflects what "little Jeanette" would have given it.
Big Jeanette is kinda cynical and stuffy, so I don't let her rate kid books.
This is getting some Newbery buzz, but I wasn't thrilled. A good story, well-developed, but I wouldn't say distinguished; it felt a little flat, like the plot was supposed to be enough to drive it. Others have made other good comparisons, but it reminded me of Little Miss Sunshine.The most interesting parts to me were about the relationship between Mibs and her perfect mother; I would have liked to see that explored a lot more. I guess this is good fluff with some meat, and I would have enjoyed it more if it was good meat with some fluff.
I'd heard Abby's booktalk for this like ten times and it always made me super stoked to read it, but it took me awhile to get around to it!GUESS WHAT I LOVED IT. It's kind of like if Flannery O'Connor wrote an X-Men story? Which: I wish she would have. But instead I will happily take this (and Scumble, ASAP!)
I want a savvy!!!
Absolutely precious and enjoyable. Ingrid Law has a wonderful imagination, and she is great with figurative language and nonsensical words. I smiled through the entire read. Ms. Lewis
did i care for this book? whatsoever? no i really didn't..oops just sue me.rtc
Her Grandfather can move the earth, one of her brothers can create storms and the other creates electricity, while her mother does everything perfect (she even makes perfect mistakes.) After Mibs' father ends up in the intensive care unit following a car accident, Mibs wakes up on her birthday convinced that she has discovered her savvy and that it will wake up her father.In order to get to her father in the hospital Mibs stows away on the pink bus of a bible deliveryman and is joined by a whole cast of fun and original characters including her brothers, Fish and Samson and the pastor's kids.
Each Beaumont must learn to "scumble" the savvy so it is controlled and doesn't pose danger for anyone.
It tones down and lessens the intensity of the area, and that's exactly what the Beaumont children must learn to do when they come into their savvies, soften or tone it down by covering it with layers of self control that allows the savvy to enhance their lives instead of control them.I really enjoyed this book that speaks to the importance of family, friends, and individuality on so many levels.
While the Beaumonts are by no means average, their family functions as a normal one with traditional values.
Ingrid Law shows great imagination and depth in her story about a girl, who on a quest to help her ailing father, discovers what makes her special from everyone else.Mibs, the protagonist of Savvy, comes from a family that has many special attributes.
In the process of discovering her savvy and finding her father, Mibs finds herself on an unforgettable adventure across the states of Kansas and Nebraska, otherwise known as "Kansaska-Nebransas" in a Bible-salesman's truck.Ingrid Law's smooth writing makes the story easy to read and difficult to put down.
Her mother wants to be there with him, and Mibs and two of her brothers are left in the care of the preacher's wife.
On her birthday, which of course does not get celebrated in the manner she had anticipated, Mibs is convinced that her 'savvy' will bring her dad out of his coma - the only problem is that they are many miles away and have no way of getting to the hospital.
But that doesn't stop Mibs, so somehow she, her brothers, and the preacher's children are in a pink bus -going the wrong way!
Thankfully my receipt was my bookmark.
I bought this book May 2nd of 2010.
I got 325 pages into and gave up.
I picked it back up to at least finish it for my Savvy-enthusiastic friend and lo and behold - the next couple of pages are about the main character (Mibs, apparently, I forgot) telling her Muggle (aka NOT savvy) comatose father that he "never gives up" and that is HiS savvy.
Pa, you and I share Savvys.
And Alissa, I finished it.
You're welcome.
The last passages are actually quite beautiful.
I would recommend this charming coming-of-age story just for the ticklesome "voice" of Mibs Beaumont. Each person in her family has a supernatural (and often quirky) gift, or savvy, which must be scumbled before they are fit to mingle with the public. Mibs comes to terms with her own disappointing gift and recognizes that even non-Beaumonts wield their own savvies. A delightful book from a first-time author. Comes out in May.
