https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1669972.Harriet
take a "natural" from any given Austen novel - those simple-minded, childish, often greedy, but also often innately sweet women who the central heroines usually have to protect or at least work around - and set her in a starkly realistic setting approximately 50 years later, filled with characters who truly will do what they feel they have to do to obtain money and comfort.
greed is a killer and predators will do anything to rationalize their predatory behavior (even to themselves) - particularly in a milieu where polite conversation and manners are as important as currency.a dark and forgotten classic, one that is pitiless and passionless in its depictions of human cruelty.
Review of the Persephone edition.You can see where this is going and you can see it's going to be a very depressing read.
I happened to read the information inside the dust jacket at the back that tells you about the author, I don't look at the information inside dust jacket at the front,that tells you about the book, as I have found Persephone books are prone to spoilers.
This detail (view spoiler)[ not only is Harriet, who has learning difficulties, married for her money she is also killed (hide spoiler)]made me decide I didn't want to read this right now.
On one of her customary visits to relatives, she comes into contact with Lewis Oman, and promptly falls for his romantic advances - unaware that his real motive is to get his hands on her money.While I was reading this story, I was completely enraptured - I didn't want to put it down at some points, because I was dying to know what would happen to the poor heroine.
One of Persephone's darkest novels based on the true story of the 1877 Penge Murder case.A story of cruelty,greed and passion, this book may not be everyone's cup of tea but it is so well written by Elizabeth Jenkins .I was hooked from the start and wanted to know what happened.Recommended for true crime fans
As always, I'm chatty Cathy about this book, so if you want the longie, you can go  here; otherwise, carry on with the short version.Originally written in 1934, Harriet is based on an actual British murder case from the 1870s known as "The Penge Murder Mystery." It is one of the more disturbing books I've read, although I must say it is also one of the best crime novels I've had in my hands in a very, very long time.
Una historia inhumana, pero a la vez, demasiado cercana a lo que puede ser capaz el ser humano.
Empieza como la típica historia de una " tontita" adinerada en su mundo de algodón.
Entra en escena un "caballero" y la escritora empieza a describir unos personajes tan detalladamente que a veces te parece que lo estás viviendo con ellos.
Una cascada de acontecimientos llega a un final que te remueve hasta en lo más profundo.
Una historia decimonónica que como dice en la portada, conmovió a la sociedad victoriana.
Una joya de libro que se merece una lectura.
O más ;)
Lewis Staunton, a good-looking young man and a relentless criminal, saw his opportunity, and making love to the innocent, ignorant creature, got her away from her mother’s protection and married her.
Because Elizabeth Jenkins wrote so beautifully, and with such understanding of the characters she recreated, and of their psychology.I was particularly moved by Mrs Ogilvy, Harriet’s mother.
It sounds simple, and yes it is, but I think it is the finest portrayal of mother love that I have ever read.Mrs Ogilvy was horrified when Lewis Staunton began to court her daughter after meeting her at a cousin’s house.
¡¡Qué aburrido!! ¿Cómo una historia tan apasionante puede ser llevada a libro de forma tan anodina? La autora opta por dejar en segundo término la maldad de los hechos, no subrayarlo, esa es una idea muy buena pero la forma de hacerlo es realmente aburrida. Puede ser una opinión impopular pero la autora de todas las opciones elige la peor. Su prosa es en cierta forma cursi, soporífera y desapasionada. Lo único que muestra "vida" en el libro es el epílogo...y es de otra autora.
Chilling, horrifying, and incredibly compelling. A fantastic and sickening read.
Nos cuenta el triste destino de Harriet, en la novela Harriet Woodhouse, joven de poco más de treinta años que disponía de una fortuna considerable que consiguió despertar el interés de Lewis Oman, un hombre pobre que pretendía casarse en algún momento con la presumida y pretenciosa prima de Harriet, Alice.
El libro nos contará los padecimientos de Harriet con la familia Oman, una historia sin duda triste y cruel.
Es increíble que ellos pensaran que lo que hacían era totalmente lícito y justo, que no había nada malo en manipular, engañar y maltratar a una pobre mujer discapacitada, ver cómo se dejaban llevar por su narcisismo y egoísmo, disfrutando de sus vidas mundanas y los placeres de la comida o el contacto físico en el piso de abajo mientras la pobre Harriet y su bebé se consumían en el diminuto cuarto en el que la habían desterrado solo porque les estorbaba cuando eran ellos los que la habían metido en sus vidas para quedarse con su dinero.
Persephone Book Club (Goodreads) - February 2018
Sometimes I don't mind being surprised, but this one fell a little flat.Since Jenkins took the real story of Harriet Staunton's murder and seems to have only changed last names of all the characters, I don't know why she didn't write straight-up non-fiction about the case.
I would have expected Harriet to at least loom slightly larger than the husband and in-laws who plotted her slow demise, but when it comes to the amount of time spent on her person, she ends up being rather a cipher.The afterword to the 2012 edition says Jenkins wrote "faction" (fact-fiction).
Llena de dudas y miedo, la señora Ogilvy nunca había reparado en el hecho de que la fortuna de su hija podía ser un cebo para hombres sin recursos.
De pronto pasaba una cosa, después otra, y cuando menos me di cuenta, la historia había terminado y yo tenía miles de dudas sin resolver.
El epílogo, que sigue al último capítulo, escrito por una crítica literaria, Rachel Cooke, nos da todos los detalles del caso real, nos cuenta la vida de la autora y el “después” de las personas reales involucradas en el caso.
This has totally shocked me. I am disturbed. This novel, written by Elizabeth Jenkins is the true life account of the murder of a girl with learning difficulties in the late 1800s. It is shocking how horrific humans can treat one another. It has deeply upset me! However strange that may seem, I did really enjoy it (I have morbid fascination. I love true crime.) It is a very powerful, very well written book. Harriet's mother must have suffered greatly. Elizabeth Jenkins has truly succeeded with telling Harriet's story. Thank you to Persephone for keeping this story alive!
Oh my word what a wild ride this book was. Written in 1934 and based on an actual murder case Elizabeth Jenkins' Harriet is one of the most enthralling and disturbing crime novels I have ever read. I was completely absorbed throughout the whole book and found myself completely emotionally invested.This book is very upsetting and definitely not a calm beach read. Money makes people do insane things sure but is the real trigger money or madness?
Kudos to Valancourt books for the new publication of this 1934 novel,based on a Victorian trial in 1877. The book also has an afterword written especially for this edition.
Seems strange to say you 'enjoyed' a book that was so disturbing and based on the real life case in 1877 of Harriet Staunton (the Penge Murder Mystery), but I found myself captivated and horrified in equal measures over this story.Harriet is at the centre of the story.
She is made to cut all ties to her mother - another heartbreaking element to the whole story.Even when Harriet falls pregnant there seems little care or concern by those people and it was heartbreaking to see them living life to the full with no thought to Harriet and her son.
Interesting as a description of the Staunton murder case that created such a scandal in the 1870s and that may have been a tangential inspiration for Henry James’ The Wings of the Dove.
But it’s not a terribly good novel and in that respect nowhere as fascinating as the same author’s later The Tortoise and the Hare.
An interesting book, in all, but not a brilliant novel, and not a book that would be remembered at all if it wasn’t faction rather than fiction.
Su falta de pudor era inimaginable y estaba plenamente convencido de que dominaba la situación.”Lo terrorífico es que él solo no se basta para urdir una trama, un proyecto que le llevará a intentar apoderarse de la herencia de Harriet; Lewis se valdrá de Alice, su amante, además de su hermano Patrick y la esposa de este Elizabeth, ninguno de ellos le va a la zaga, por ejemplo tenemos el caso de Alice:“Quien se atreviera a amenazarla no sólo era un obstáculo que había que sortear a toda costa, era un enemigo íntimo que le causaba consternación y horror.
Apart from her expression, and the slightly slurred enunciation of her words, however, her appearance was one of rather particular neatness and cost.”In real life Harriet Staunton nee Richardson lived and died very much in line with the events in Elizabeth Jenkins’s 1934 novel.
Only one photograph exists of Harriet Staunton, taken upon the occasion of her engagement.Despite being based upon real life events, I must stress that Harriet, is a novel, though there are I believe non-fiction works written about the famous case too.
This is a compelling and disturbing novel, based on the notorious murder trial of those responsible for the death of Harriet Richardson, a wealthy woman, whom we would now describe as having learning difficulties.
The novelist's skill is in conveying the sheer ordinariness of the alleged perpetrators : their self-deception and greed, their misplaced loyalties and lack of human decency.
Sometimes the reader is jolted into a sudden realisation of what is being described through the veneer of mundanity.
The style is restrained but unsparingly analytical, avoiding sensationalism.
The novel leaves the reader having to consider the differences between legal and moral judgements.
Tricky - the words "really liked it!" (associated with the 4-star rating) didn't ring through my head upon finishing, since my dominant thoughts were "I sure hope that was fiction, but I'm not so sure"...and my dread was confirmed in the Afterword - this novel was indeed rooted in true events.
Jenkins did an excellent job of weaving fictional detail into the public evidence of the case - definitely a page turner.
But be prepared - it is dark reading and upsetting, and not one I'd ever pick up again.
Simplemente deliciosa. Simplemente aterradora. Una radiografía del alma de unos seres capaces tan sólo de pensar en sí mismos y su beneficio. Montones de momentos para leer entre líneas que hacen que los sucesos sean más espeluznantes todavía.Brillante.
http://www.bookgeeks.co.uk/2012/05/14...
Un viaje al infierno pausado y completamente razonado. Un espléndido mapa del cinismo y la miseria humana. No se lo pierdan.
As portrayed it might well have been the case to lead Holmes to the observation quoted above.This is a forerunner of the "domestic suspense" genre and perhaps a glance back at the Victorian "sensation novel".
Jenkins tells the story in a straightforward manner, mostly from various viewpoints in subjective third person, but with occasional objective observations.
The telling seems detached, the story progressing mostly in lengthy paragraphs of exposition occasionally broken with brief passages of dialogue.
Jenkins avoids Dickensian foreshadowing or generating mystery by the withholding of information like Wilkie Collins; one observes the story unfold as if it were the logical progression in a scientific demonstration.
In her novel, Jenkins traces the story of Harriet’s marriage to Lewis, who designs to marry her for her large inheritance from the first, up to the trial of Lewis and his partners in crime, by which time Harriet has died of neglect.Harriet was a young women who we would describe today as having learning disabilities.
On a visit to some relatives she falls prey to the brother-in-law of the daughter of the house, who lures her away from her mother's home and marries her (the attraction being her £3000 with £2000 to come).
The lack of rights both of women and of people with limited intellectual capacity at the time shows how vulnerable both groups were (Harriet's mother attempts to have her daughter made a ward of court to protect her, but it is late in the day to try, having managed well with her at home, and Harriet is not exactly a "lunatic" so the attempt fails).
There are more adjectives to describe what this book is not than what it is.But the main feeling that springs out of reading it was anxiety.
It was not bad but it could have been so much better.From a book written in the 1930's I was expecting a bit more pulp or at least a break from the Victorian narrative style and language.
Instead it could have easily been written 60 years earlier and no one would have noticed.
