https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257257.The_20th_Century_Art_Book
it's a 20th-Century art book, anyway.I read The 20th Century Art Book straight through, from Acconci to Zorio, which is perhaps not the best and certainly not the only way to use this brilliantly-conceived reference work, even though I personally enjoyed going through this book page by page, encountering old favorites and artists new to me in a sequence which owed nothing to schools, or regions, or influences.
but they go almost entirely unrepresented here.So The 20th Century Art Book must be understood as an overview—very broad, but by no means all-inclusive...

The format's a bit weird, and the selections range from obvious to subpar, but for the most part, this is a good art reference book. It serves its purpose and I enjoyed browsing through the artworks. I wish i could get more than a simple photo of the exhibits that were explained and shown in a single image, however, as most of them require the viewer to actually be there.
Well known artists combined with little known artists would make this a confusing book for someone with a limited knowledge of influential 20th century artists.
There is a note about the date, place, dimensions of the work, and the date of birth and (if applicable) death of the artist.
It includes the range of works you would expect in the title (western works it seems to me, but I am not familiar with 20th century non-Western works, so don't know the names of artists to look up).
I might not always agree on the single work to include, but the works of Kollwitz and Becker, Morandi, O'Keefe and others seemed fairly representative of their work.
It's a good book to dip in and out of, yet even though the size of it is handy for being able to flip through quickly, it means that the images are rather small (but still of a high quality). The best thing about this book is the snippets of information, which makes you want to know more about that artist and their work, so whatever you do don't just pass them by, sometimes they are more interesting than the artwork itself.
Short review: I love all of the Phaidon Art books (and music books). The art books are just a wonderful collection from widely different sources and the books themselves are laid out beautifully. They are, of course, introductions to a spectrum of the artworld (time period, artist specific, genre, etc...), but a wonderful starting point for anyone curious in general, or interested in finding a direction to explore further.
Although some of the art in this book is what I would class a being created by talented and inspiring people ( Bryan Organ for example).... Most of it could be have been created by a nursery school class of 4 year olds... All this is art.?... Really?
Had I bought this book 4 years ago, I wouldn't have had to go to art school. Hur hur.
Se nota un buen esfuerzo de presentar una muestra de obras representativas del siglo XX, particularmente en el expresionismo abstracto, clasificadas por autor
Great book! Large photos on each page with limited text (the way like art books).
Excellent book, especially for college students studying art or art history.
Detailed Survey of 20th Century Art by Artist. Short concise descriptions and bio of work and Artist. Ends with helpful Glossaries of Terms and Artistic Movements. Good Quality Pictures.
Fantastic reference on modern art.
I really liked it. each page is a different artist. I discovered kandinsky whom I had not heard of before. It made some names at MoMA familiar.
ARTE , UMA MARAVILHA ,VALE A pena , recomendo!!!!!!!
Quisiera hablar de todos los artistas que se encuentran aquí pero es imposible. Me encanta este libro, saco mucha inspiración.
Colorful, informative and compactly sized, I thoroughly enjoyed it very much.
A great overview of 20th century art and well work the read
my favourite collection of art in book form
Good selection of pieces and artists. Some of the descriptions were a bit trite and naff.
This book was a great read!
I loved this book so much in high school art class that I had to own it as an adult. Still a flip through favourite.
Increíble como libro de consulta, muy buena calidad y muy completo
