https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1950654.Ladies_Bane
This is my first book by Wentworth, and although it's #22 in her Miss Silver series, I didn't feel like I was out of the loop by not reading the first 21 books preceeding it.
Really picked this one up because it featured a medieval manor house, and I loves me some stately old English houses.Characterization slight, mystery building and resolution OK, but fairly bland.
Enjoyable enough whodunnit, but not on par with Agatha Christie or Gerogette Heyer, IMO.
Good enough, however, to pick up another at the library one of these days.
Perhaps an early one in the series will provide more "mystery meat".
Ladies' Bane (Miss Silver #22), Patricia Wentworth
He is besotted with the house though Ione when she is shown round it finds it rather creepy.Allegra herself is behaving very strangely - one minute lively and talkative and the next hardly seeming to be aware of what is going on around her.
Fortunately Miss Silver is staying nearby and gradually as the secrets of the house and the people who live in it are unravelled Ione finds out the truth behind the strange events which keep happening and realises there is a murderer in their midst.This is an atmospheric and compelling story where the reader/listener ends up suspecting everyone including Ione herself before the final truth is revealed.
Looking back, Ione Muir was to wonder what would have happened if she had chosen any other day to go up to town.
With all the days of the week to choose from, she had picked a Tuesday, and that particular Tuesday.
Suppose she had chosen some other day.
Suppose she had gone a week earlier or a week later.
Suppose she had not gone at all.
Just how much difference would it have made?
Or would it have been different—perhaps dreadfully different?
I mean, how many supposes or what ifs could you think of to start with?
Miss Silver novels are all comfortingly similar: crime or suspicions in the English countryside takes the genteel elderly detective and her knitting from London. Usually some young love is furthered in the course of solving the mystery.One of the things I like about the Miss Silver mysteries is that the focus is on the client and their circumstances. Sometimes Miss Silver doesn't even make her entrance until halfway through the novel.
Worrh it!Intriguing story with characters either likable, detestable, or pitiable. Although i determined fairly early who was the perpetrator, i was not certain. Therefore, i was anxious to see how everything would be resolved. Only criticisms are the careless typos, like Tim for Jim, and the British slang which completely befuddled me. My favorite characters by far are definitely Jim and Nannie. I should hate to have to choose between them.
Another enjoyable Patricia Wentworth mystery. A young woman visits her sister after a two-year absence, only to find that the sister appears to be suffering from drug addiction. The woman's new husband needs lots of money to restore their ancient country home. Then a snoopy niece dies in a climbing accident. Miss Silver visits the village to sort out the situation.
I really enjoyed the beginning of this book, very atmospheric with a creepy chill, but once we got to the sister’s place the rest of the story was rather a mess, and Miss Silver was not really much help to anyone. The cute little romance between two thoroughly likeable people was the saving grace for this story.
Patricia Wentworth is a gem. Love her narrative & use of Miss Silver.
Policier ok.
A standard Miss Silver country house mystery.
I always enjoy a Miss Silver murder mystery. It took a while to get Miss Silver into the book, but that's ok.
I got this one wrong, I was so sure I knew who the villain was, but I was fooled. Free advice: do not be a blackmailer, they never end up well.
Not my favoriteMiss Silver's role in this book is somewhat peripheral and the story line is rather scattered as a result. Also the country characters were less vivid But still a decent read.
A British mystery novel. Mildly interesting but not memorable.
As in many other miss Silver books, we have two sisters, the intelligent and strong minded one, and the weak and feeble one, who requires her stronger sister to go to her aid, the trouble with this book is that there really are not enough suspects - only two in fact, the only question being whether both or only one of them are villains. you need more suspecta than that in a mystery for it to be really satisfactory.
Allegra Trent’s new husband swept her off to the country, and her sister hasn’t seen her since. Right before finally visiting, her sister gets lost in a thick London fog. She overhears a strange conversation but can’t see who is talking…at first. Strange events and darker days are ahead before Miss Silver finally straightens matters out.
Not Wentworth's best; the whodunit is thinly contrived, and the principals are more than usually limited by their types. Still! The secondary characters are fascinating and finely etched, and this book might be worth reading if only for the whistling con man with a secret sorrow, the cook who resists her abusive husband, the governess who rails against the arrogance of privilege.
When Ione's sister Allegra got married she cut herself off from her family. Finally Ione is allowed to visit Allegra's home, and what she sees worries her very much. This is another house with personality, this time a positive one. But its upgrade from the fourteenth century leaves some serious flaws. How much does the house contribute to the deaths that begin to occur around it?
Good story but I expected something differentThe author spent so much time describing the house, I was sure that someone was going to die being trapped in there. I was fooled. I did not like MIss SIlver's annoying habit of giving a slight cough whenever she wanted to make a point
Not her best book. The plot is very thin indeed and as usual we have a weak and sobbing main female character with the strong silent hero and very nasty villains.Would not recommend. As another said quite bland.
Having done my time with Miss Marple as a kid, I was happy to find another little old lady who helps solve mysteries. Miss Silver seems to be as "portable" as Miss Marple with some similar sensibilities, but perhaps not as much old country charm. I'll definitely look for more in the series.
Reminds me a lot of Agatha Christie. Really a study in character, and Miss Silver has done that for most of her life. Not a really long book but you feel the people are real and what is going on with them is also real.
A few more loose ends with this one than is usual with Miss S. The man obsessed with the house is interesting, both as an idea and as a character.
Early Bird Books Deal | Not a favourite. It seems as Wentworth kept writing her characters became more useless and/or unpleasant and her mysteries even less complex.
Super. Perhaps a little bit high on coincidences but I could just about swallow them!
Nice, cosy, melodramatic Victorian mystery. Miss Silver doesn’t seem to do much deducing but it’s a satisfactorily atmospheric piece, nonetheless - a very English mystery.
Reliably fabulous.
Too easy to figure out the villain.
Much better than the previous volume, tight and fascinating, if not terribly original. I found myself caring more about the characters in this one than in most.
