https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116355.The_Long_Arm_of_Gil_Hamilton
Anyway the tales in this book (a series of novellas) were set before all of that and I feel were written to tell the tales of Gil and his time with ARM.Anyway I digress - the stories have a definite NOIR feel to them and I think that is what appealed to me most - regardless of the futuristic setting the fantastic assumptions or the advances in science there at the heart of each story a mystery and that is what I think makes them so enjoyable.
Like a police show where you only follow a vice cop, or the homicide department, The Long Arm of Gil Hamilton is dedicated to a division specialty.2) Detective noir plus.
Everything a detective does, Hamilton does with futuristic flourish.
If noir detectives smoke, he does a cigarette trick with his telekinetic third hand.
(A cigarette is about the heaviest thing he can manage.) If noir detectives have loving secretaries, his secretary keeps tabs on him telepathically.
If noir detectives run afoul of regular city police, well--something's gotta be constant across space and time.3) The Encyclopedia Brown wrap up.
More great Known Space stories. I could easily put myself in the role of Gil "The Arm".
Hard to pin down Larry Niven's voice exactly.
He's also wildly imaginative in an understated and un-self-conscious way, with huge or crazy ideas casually tossed in and thrown away depending on how well they serve the story.
And that, as one might imagine, will be relevant to these stories.
He also works as an ARM agent -- "Amalgamation of Regional Militia" but Niven says in the afterword it's a backronym in the service of the larger pun.
As usual with Larry Niven, I liked it.
Probably less than Neutron Star but up there with Ringworld.
Three Detective SF novellas by Niven starring Gil Hamilton, a UN "ARM" agent working mostly on "organlegging" cases (and who, for no particular reason, also someone who possesses a psychokinetic "arm").The detective tales are, as such, fairly labored and overconstructed, usually with an SF twist.
The actual narrative is straightforward and pleasant reading.
More interesting -- as is usually the case with Niven -- the most interest is with the world-building.
Other concepts touched on include concepts of body and self, and the (ab)use of drouds (tech to directly stimulate the pleasure centers of the brain.Good read.
Many years after first reading it in the mid 1980s, I still recalled it with great fondness though my copy had disappeared at some point. I re-bought it and read it again in the last couple of years. I still look upon it with fondness. It's perhaps the best future-sci-fi detective type fiction I can recall. Some of Niven's best.
Probably my least favorite of all the Known Space books that I've read so far...
Then a couple of short stories that didn't make it into the main collections of Neutron Star and Tales of Known Space.
There are a couple short stories in Tales of Known Space that I would consider inferior to these sci-fi detective stories...
I think my favorite was probably the middle story, "The Defenseless Dead"...
I'd recommend it to anyone who has read 80-90% of the Known Space novels and short stories...
_Death by Ecstasy_ was my first Larry Niven story, and prompted me to go out and find more of his Known Space tales.
But bits of pieces of that are needed not just for some of these stories but some of the other Known Space tales, so you write it off as the classic SF "let's extrapolate this technology as far as it will go" thought experiment (and this one with organ transplants is no more or less insane/disturbing than the one Gene Wolfe does with taxidermy, so there you go).
Better than Ringworld, Niven really hits his stride in this one. Classic cheesy space detective genre. Inventive plot points.
This is a collection of three science-fictional detective stories featuring the psi-powered Gil Hamilton. Set in his Known-Space framework, they're challenging and fun puzzles that combine the best of the two genres to good effect.
Gil is a trifle jaded with life, being a well-educated ex-Belt miner, with a transplanted arm (Lost in a space accident, and the new limb *may* have come from confiscated "organlegger" stock, like most organs, so his ambivalence is understandable ) and a third arm - a minor ability of telekinesis that allows him to use a 'ghost' limb to manipulate objects though his ability is limited; he can reach into vacuum from inside a spaceship but not lift more than a full shot glass under Earth gravity.
Like a police show where you only follow a vice cop, or the homicide department, The Long Arm of Gil Hamilton is dedicated to a division specialty.2) Detective noir plus.
Everything a detective does, Hamilton does with futuristic flourish.
If noir detectives smoke, he does a cigarette trick with his telekinetic third hand.
(A cigarette is about the heaviest thing he can manage.) If noir detectives have loving secretaries, his secretary keeps tabs on him telepathically.
If noir detectives run afoul of regular city police, well--something's gotta be constant across space and time.3) The Encyclopedia Brown wrap up.
Being an eBook made it a little harder to figure out if I were reading the same book, but the next story is original.
Combine the abductions going to the banks with the reoccurring plot points of"well, we tortured them but who cares!
They were going into the organ banks!" And it really gives the layperson insight into the minds of those that abduct kids and adults TODAY, when they'll either survive and spend the rest of their life dealing with the trauma or or just be killed and dumpped somewhere!
With the organ banks, you don't even need to feel bad about what you're doing!
Necessarily chopped, because it was assembled from other sources. The main character was enjoyable, Blade Runner-ish. It could have been longer, as there was more to explore about the main character's feelings about his arm and why he seems to switch between wanting a prosthesis and not. There are a couple switches in tone and vocabulary, again from the assembled nature, but Larry Niven is one of those authors with whom you can't go wrong. Reading it next to some other less mature science fiction, the pace is ideal.
Three old school SFnal detective stories inspired by (then recent) advances in organ transplant technology. Our hero tracks down organleggers, solves murders and even faces the odd ethical quandary. They're a bit 'backwards into the future,' but it's interesting speculation combined with competent whodunnits and hold up better than I expected.The person writing the back cover copy is way off on a tangent though.
Larry Niven's Man-Kzin War/Ringworld universe is sprawling, and this is the first book. Consists of three novellas about the ARM agent, Gil Hamilton. Sadly, I've read one of them. Also, I'm not a huge fan of Gil. I don't find his adventures or his job or his "invisible" hand powers all that interesting. Oh well.
Decently written, not one of Niven's best. As he mentions in the postscript, "They said it couldn't be done." He refers to combining the science fiction and detective genres.I can be done. This book doesn't answer the question "should it be done?".2 stars because it was OK, but I would not recommend it.
Classic Niven. Three short stories revolving around the titular Gil H., a detective in the not-so-distant future. Plenty of interesting speculation about stasis fields, illegal organ suppliers, and multiplying universes. Well worth a read.
Three semi-ok sf-detective shorts. Not must-reads, the premise (agent with invisible arm) is more exciting than the execution (police agent examines a few crimes with high-tech angles, has to figure out the plot, descriptions a bit boring and old-fashioned)
This is a very pleasant read. The writing is imperfect but fairly entertaining, the murder mysteries are thoughtful, and the setting as a whole contains some new and interesting ideas. Burn through it in an afternoon, give it to a friend, and enjoy the discussions that will result.
I liked it butsometimes had trouble following.
One of my favorites. Would like it in audio form so I could listen to it over and over.
Short stories re Niven's futuristic detective.
Three excellent stories from the "Organlegger" period of Niven's Known Space novels
1978 grade B1997 grade BSeries book P76 and GH1Short Novel
A bit like Dick Tracey in space. I liked the characters and the stories but found it a tortuous read, I normally love nivan but found it too easy put it down.
First read about Gil Hamilton in '13 crimes of science fiction'. Hamilton is an agent on a futuristic earth with a population surging over 13 billion. Lots of organ-leggers and mother hunts.
Nice use of suspension of disbelief, a limited psy power. A spin on the detective story few could match.
A fun but inessential part of Niven's oeuvre.
Prolific Piers Anthony kept my 'to read' pile filled for years. The Xanth novels are a fun forray into whimsical, clever magic.
