https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9757482-the-age-of-anxiety
The Age of Anxiety is one of Auden's greatest works, indeed probably one of the greatest poems of the Twentieth Century, but I do think the popular verdict is correct.
The result is a brutal assessment of Western culture's sickness in the middle of the twentieth century.
(Although, to say that the poem even has a plot is a bit of an overstatement.)After finishing The Age of Anxiety, I don't think I will return to it as often or with as much relish as I will some of Auden's other poems.
Still, for anyone seriously interested in Auden or culture care, it is essential reading.
My first, but certainly not last, Auden. Stunning.
Good,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cmLTrv...
Any difficulty in understanding cannot be laid at the feet of the author. That said, I won't claim perfect comprehension, but I consider it worthwhile to read. I was only because of Leonard Bernstein that I knew about this poem, so I have him to thank. Now it's on to the symphony.The soliloquy by Rosetta is a high point.
“Ho guardato dalle finestre di un Mondo caduto,[…] i nostalgici, piccoli, ostinati singhiozziDelle cose precipitate nell’esistenza.” (p. 167)
Set in a wartime bar in New York City on All Soul’s night, Auden’s four characters Quant, a shipping clerk; Rosetta, "a buyer for a big department store"; Emble, a navy man; and Malin, a Canadian air force pilot, meet in a bar where "everybody is reduced to the status of a shady character or a displaced person." After getting to know one another as they sit at the bar, the group moves to a booth, where they undertake a sort of vision quest through an imaginary landscape.
Rampant alliteration to no useful (communicative) end. In fact, it gets in the way.
most under-rated of all the late audens. written in alliterative. icelandic / old english meters transmogrified into anxious etiolate mongrel doggerel.
Wow. I am going to read this again as soon I have a few days to do more pondering.

The conversations sparked by attempting to make sense of this poem were far more interesting than the poem itself. Auden was clearly writing for a self-contained audience that was both fascinated by its own cleverness and deluded into thinking it actually had anything in common with and could speak to the average person.
In understanding the underpinnings of us,anxiety seems an appropriate axiom. Alliterationresonates too: every era another repetitionof days wonderful for work and for war.
I loved this poem. The story, the language, all of it. I will read this again soon.
Hard to grasp, but lovely and needed. Demands a reread.
A magnificent poem!
Auden’s book is one of the few examples of narrative alliterative poetry in modern English, and in general it is a very unique poem.
The only thing I’ve read that is even somewhat similar is T.S. Eliot’s “The Wasteland” with which it shares a bleak, Modernist landscape, a reflection of the horrors of modern warfare, and an anxiety over the alienation of 20th century society.Alliterative verse was the primary poetic form in Old English, and it continued to be popular in Middle English until the influence of French poetic styles eventually drowned it out.
There's a wonderful introduction by Alan Jacobs (wonderful: not insistent, but not rambling), which makes it clear that Auden's classifications of types, journeys, and temperaments comes from Jung, the Kabbalah, and other sources.
In its ambition and its reliance on mythopoetic types, the book is like a rationalist's answer to "A Vision," and now that I've belatedly read it I see its confidence in classification as a shadow on "the Changing Light in Sandover."[return][return]But what use is it, this classification of temperaments into four types, this journey into disappointment, this faint reprieve at the end granted by love and the passive acknowledgment of the impossibility of salvation?
So much of this poem (a lot of which is in an Old English meter) is technically interesting and excellent.
The content is basically this: four people representing Jung's four "types" (feeling, thought, sensation, intuition - the Meyers-Briggs many people are familiar with) meet in a bar in New York during WWII, and they have a discussion about the stages of a human's life.
I've read a bit of his other stuff on Auden, and he's interesting, and sympathetic himself to Auden's view of the world (which helps to understand him, it seems to me!).
It seems everyone whose really tried to review this book, including the person who wrote the forward, would like to say this complex work just doesn't work overall.
I enjoyed this new edition which I discovered on the new books shelf of my local library.
I'd never heard of this work before, let alone read any of it, so it felt like an adventure to me.
I've only read wee bits of Auden up until now.
I now want to read more.I'm interested in learning about long poems as verse-plays and/or novels.
Whatever you want to call them :-)I also enjoyed very much Auden's use of the Anglo-Saxon alliterative form.
I think it worked great.And I like the book cover and the high quality paper used.
A very challenging read for me. The only thing I can liken it to is attempting to read mainstream writing in a foreign language for the first time: I was able to generally understand the overall story by piecing together meaning from familiar words but was certain I was missing subtlety and nuance. This is a book I will need to return to but will do so willingly.
I really have no idea what is going on in part three, "The Seven Stages," (and a quick dip into the secondary literature seems to indicate that I am not alone). Ambitious - some lovely passages, some haunting images.
I liked some of it
It was interesting for a lot of reasons. I was surprised by its connection with another book I read recently: The Denial of Death.
Recondite but worth the effort. No particularly memorable passages which is surprising for Auden.
I only half-read it. I kind of liked it, but didn't get too into it. It's required reading and the end of the semester, so sorry Auden. I'd probably like you better on my own terms.
Auden at his most masterful. He is in utter command of the rhythm and diction of the work throughout, and the sheer volume of the alliteration of which he makes use is staggering.
Good book, but frankly the kind that only people with too much time on their hands could ever fully appreciate.
a huge disappointment! alliterative verse has never been so boring.
Not at all what I was expecting, but still thrilling to read.
