https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278097.Foundation_Foundation_and_Empire_Second_Foundation_The_Stars_Like_Dust_The_Naked_Sun_I_Robot
Asimov at his best, which is out of this world.A prolific writter with a wicked sense of the impossible and able to bring you along on the ride.100's of books written. Hour after hour of enjoyment
d-- have you read the foundation series yet?
it might be a little dry, but it's the finest bit of sci-fi world-building that i think i've ever read.
yeah, yeah, people will argue with me about that, but some of the worlds people build i have a really hard time actually "seeing" -- no matter how much detail there is.
it's one of those series of novels that sticks in your head for YEARS afterwards and actually gives you new tools with which to look at your own reality -- if that makes any sense.asimov is one of my idols (and i don't have many).
The trilogy of books Foundation, Foundation and Empire and Second Foundation are among the best Asimov ever wrote among his science-fiction novels and among his most influential.
Foundation and Empire is less episodic than the first and features one of Asimov's most complex and compelling characters, "the Mule," as well as a strong female character, Bayta, and a clever twist.
Second Foundation also features a strong female character--Arkady Darell.
However, I do think Asimov's most amazing works can be found in his short stories, not his novels.
I love science fiction, but I did not love these books.
For me, Asimov's appeal lies in his incredible vision: the technological advances he predicts, together with the rich history and culture he invents.
Unfortunately, I feel that his characters are terribly weak, and exist only as necessary (and perhaps unwelcome) literary devices that showcase his world.
His lack of focus on character depth, combined with the vast jumps in time between each novel, made me lose interest rather quickly.If you love reading history books and science fiction, you might actually love this series.
But as a literature guy, I was disappointed.
Interesting that The Naked Sun is placed here with the Foundation Trilogy and I Robot - the latter now familiar to audiences through the Will Smith version. The Foundation trilogy is interesting for its allegories about Vietnam (and with psycho-history a kind of parody on Marxism) but for me the Elijah Bailey series of noir detective stories set off world were Asimov's greatest achievements. The Naked Sun and The Caves of Steel? magnificent! Reminding us that Asimov was also a crime writer and a brilliant compliment to Dick's Blade Runner.
NOTE: This review concerns only I, Robot, not any of the other included books. It's been too long since I've read the other ones to consider a review of them :/I really enjoyed I, Robot. Mr. Asimov has an astonishing talent for making you think and surprising you with the outcomes and reasoning behind them. Truly enjoyable books. Also, if you are coming in to the book expecting it to be anything like the movie of Will Smith fame, you are going to be surprised. They are almost nothing alike. ;)
Asimov is an author of the old school, a purist who patiently lays out his plot like a weaver designing his carpet. Every detail is integral to the plot which holds together like a golden weaver’s web. Asimov like all great minds believes their first priority is to please themselves, if the author like his work, the audience will follow. The book is the end of a series that will keep the most fastidious reader guessing and still be surprised. A pioneer in his field, Isaac Asimov takes his rightful place as one of SF great minds.
In all fairness, I only read I, Robot out of curiosity after having seen the Will Smith movie. I've had this book probably 15 years and never picked it up until now. I'm sure for Asimov, the story is excellent (it was pretty interesting, though the only thing of his works I've read thus far). Film completely unlike the book--naturally, do not bother to compare them. The story itself, more of a chronicling of events than a gripping page turner, but still worthy of notice for sci-fi fans.
The Foundation Trilogy had to be one of Asimov's best, in my opinion. As for short stories, his I, Robot series is very engaging, even for those that do not care for science fiction. They are, in many ways, studies in human nature (and for those that have seen the movie: I, Robot; the stories of the series put out by Asimov, were not followed AT ALL. The movie was completely different (except for the stolen title).
Some of the greatest, most ambitious works of Asimov.From the mind-blowing concepts of Foundation, and the idea that human civilisation could be quantified, controlled and steered by mathematics...To the agoraphobic earth in The Stars Like Dust...To the anthopophobic Mars in The Naked Sun...And the basic rules of artificial intelligence in I, Robot... Asimov has altered the way we look at the world, and will continue to do so long into this new century.
My first introduction to science fiction came accidentally into our house instead of the children's dictionary my mum had ordered from the book club. It took me forever to read but i loved the foundation trilogy and recently re-read I, Robot.
This collection is timeless and thought-provoking. It remains a treasure trove for both readers and writers of hard science fiction, though it was written decades ago. Isaac Osimov exemplifies the well-tailored use of everyman style, delivering easily read stories, though complex in formula.
This is the best of Isaac Asimov, and essential reading.
Best series of sci-fi I've ever read so far. Read this many times.
My FAVORITE universe! I am very sad that Asimov won't be writing anymore of these stories for me...
Don't know why they are merged in this big lump, but I read them all and liked them all, though not all as much as the others.
this is the actual book I read
LOVE. Classic sci-fi and philosophical adventures
Hi I am Hera Morgan and i have read that book to nanana so you are neveron anymore please write back lov ya
fiction,science fiction
thought it kinda dragged but read it a long time ago...perhaps I will read it again.
Good at the time
N/A
more classic reading!
Loved this trilogy
This is a wonderful collection of the Foundation Trilogy and the Robot novels all in one place. This is some of Asimov's best science fiction.
The gold plated model for all
864 pages!!!!!! I've read them all!!!!!6 novels by Asimov in one thick black salty book!
I liked these novels. Hard to read them all back to back, though. They're dated and a little slow at times. But fascinating to see where so much of the sci fi I love came from.
The basic Asimov, read it.
