https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817315.The_Berenstain_Bears_Visit_the_Dentist
The bear family goes to the dentist. Sister bear has a loose tooth and the dentist has to pull it. This is a simple story about the fear of the dentist. Nice art work.My nephew had fun with this book.
In this book Sister Bear has a loose tooth, and she doesn't want it yanked by the dentist because she is scared.
She comes out happy and unharmed with a balloon and lives happily ever after.This book is special to me because I always use to read it before dentist appointments so I wouldn't be scared.
I believe the purpose of the book was to help little children be good and un afraid at the dentist and Stan and Jan Berenstain wrote a great picture book.
I recommend that you read all fifty books of the Berenstain Bears series because they each have great life lessons, and you can get them in multiple languages.
I just love the Berenstain Bears collections. I used this book before a dentist came to visit one of my programs that I over see. It helps a child that has never been to a dentist office to see that there is nothing to be afraid of. It also a great tool to use to build up on vocabulary.
I didn't get this one for my dentist visit, but I did get it when I lost my first teeth (I lost two at once the first time). Always a favorite!
Nice Introduction to the DentistI think this is a wonderful way to educate young ones before their first trip to the dentist! It talks about what to expect and some of the tools and procedures to expect.
Every child is afraid of different things, maybe it's the dentist like Sister or maybe it's tight spaces.
Have students pick the thing they are most afraid of and write a silly poem or song about it making it less scary.
If your school allows it, you might even be able to take a field trip to a place like the dentists office and learn even more about it.
This type of trip could be done with a place like the hospital, or maybe the zoo if there is a particular animal students are afraid of, like a tiger.
Before they go Brother Bear makes his sister scared telling her that the dentist will yank her teeth out.
Mama Bear takes the two of them to the dentist and has Brother Bear go first, the dentist ends up finding a cavity in one of his teeth scaring him very badly.
When it is Sister Bear’s turn to go see the dentist comes up she is very scared, especially after seeing what happen to her brother.
She informs the dentist of the lose tooth and fears that it is going to be painfully yanked out.
This story teaches a great lesson to children about how going to the dentist may seem scary but it really is not that bad.
The plot was fairly simple which could be good for children because they can easily understand what is going on.
The illustration could have been more detailed and I felt that most of the expressions on the bears faces looked the same.
I do like how all the Berenstain Bears books have the same style.
This makes the books familiar and safe for young readers.
Also the simple language would be great for beginning readers.
In the book brother bear was nervous when he saw all the tools laid out in the dentist's office and that is how I was when I first went to the dentist.
I like how in the end of the book, sister and brother bear saw that they had nothing to fear when their dentist visit was over.
This could be a good book to read to children before they go to the dentist.
Learning Experience: I would have a bag full of tools that could be found at the dentist office.
Here's one to prepare the kids for going to the dentist - which for those squeamish about such things - will have plenty of detail enough to send the more delicate of us running for the hills.In all honesty, this story handles the idea of a visit to the dentist very well, and in a non-threatening way.
Having a child who is beyond phobic about things related to teeth - well, I think she's not the only one squeamish about Sister's odd tooth sticking out in several of the pictures.
That just looks so WRONG!Overall this is a good story that answers a lot of questions about what to expect on that first dental visit.
I think there's a very good reason that this book series has spanned decades and maintained popularity.
It gives children the chance to think on their own and make their own choices for behaviors that carry over into their adult lives.
Many of these issues will be ones that will persist through their lives, just on different levels of course.I love the nostalgia reading this as an adult.
I recommend passing these books along to adults!!
I bet kids read this and remind their parents about going to the dentist themselves, which is exactly what this book should accomplish.
This is probably akin to admitting I don't like puppies or something (I do!
I do like puppies!) but I have never really gotten the appeal of the Berenstain Bears books.
I am willing to concede I am in the minority on this however since they go out like hotcakes at the library and have been favorites with many people for ages.
I just purchased this latest one for my library with several other books on the topic of dentist visits...I am sure this will be a great favorite with the patrons.
I used this book to help my son prepare for a dentist visit.
It does discuss "yanking" a loose tooth, which could frighten some children AND adults.
Personally, loose teeth makes me queasy, so I have a hard time reading some of the story.
But, it did seem to give my four year old an understanding and a reminder of what going to the dentist is like.
It is a typical Berenstain Bears book, although I did not find the children quite as annoying as I usually do, and thankfully the bumbling father bear is mostly absent from this particular story.
It serves a good purpose for preparing for the dentist.
The Berenstain books are children favorites.
This is also a collection of books that are all educational to children.
This book focused on a visit to the dentist office.
Every child is nervous about their first visit to the dentist this is a great book for children to read and understand how important going to the dentist is and how they should not be scared to go.
I read this book when i was a child and then 10 years later it still is one of my favorite books.
These books are great to have in a young classroom.
Both of my kids (ages 4 and 6) enjoyed the book and wanted to brush their teeth more often so as not to have to have a tooth pulled.
The unfortunate part is that my oldest is prone to fast developing cavities and has had to have teeth pulled - after reading this it made the experience a little scarier for him - he did not want the grabber used in his mouth.
I would recommend reading it children before visiting the dentist but avoiding it if you suspect they may need to have a tooth pulled.
This is a good book for younger kids because it talks about the first tooth she lost and younger kids are still losing their teeth. It would be a book that would teach the students about losing their teeth and about going to the dentist which are both something they are going to experience. This book could teach the kids not to be as scared later when they have to do it. It wasn't one of my favorite books but there was nothing wrong with it I just didn't love it as much as the other books I read.
This book is apart of a series which focuses on the family of bears and their daily life. In this book sister bear has to go to the dentist and is very scared. Her whole family comes together to help her through her first dentist experience. The books are great because children can relate to them very easily, the illustrations are exciting and colorful. These books have valuable lessons that children can learn. I will definitely have some of these books in my classroom because of the lessons and the reading level.
I used this book to prep Clara for her first dentist's appointment (at age 3 1/2). We read it together a few times before our visit, talking about various aspects of the story and how Clara's dentist might be similar to or different from the one Brother and Sister Bear visited. I think it helped a lot. Clara cooperated during her x-rays and cleaning...I think I was more nervous than she was. :) Unlike Brother Bear, Clara had NO CAVITIES that needed filling, so many of the dental tools we talked about never appeared. Thankfully!
This book talks about how children are just yanking out their teeth and how they are scared of going to the dentist. But when they get their the dentist they are scared but after all of their procedures they come out alright and they aren't scared of the dentist anymore. Most children are scared of the dentist because they are scared of the pain that is associated with the dentist. This book should be read to kids because they need to get over their fears of the dentist.
The Berenstain Bears Visit the Dentist, from my experience a great book to share with first graders. Children love talking about their teeth. How many they have lost and especially talking about their trips to the dentist. For these reasons this book is extremely relatable and can spark many conversations. Also this would be an excellent read if your child is having anxiety about going to the dentist for the first time.
When I was little I was afraid of the Dentist, to be fair the first time I remember going to the dentist I has just watched the Rescuers for the first time and my Dentist looked a lot like Medusa. So my parents got me this book to show me how nice dentists are. I'm not sure how much it helped but I did grow out of my fear eventually.
This was a very well written book for a child who has never been to the dentist. Taking the fear away from them. This book Sister bear has a loose tooth and goes with Brother to the dentist. Her dentist shows her (and the reader-listener) all the instruments that a dentist uses and he shows her how he fills Brother's cavity. A very well written story.
Overall, I did not think that he book was very effective in teaching anything to a reader. However, the book did do a good job of listing and commenting on the different tools that dentist uses everyday. The book also did a good job by helping the audience to not fear the dentist and that going to the dentist is a good thing.
Title: The Berenstain Bears Visit The DentistSeries: Berenstain Bears Author: Stan Berenstain & Jan Berenstain Genre: Children's Rating: 3.5 stars I loved the Berenstain Bears book when I was growing up!! This book was one of the ones I read as a child - the Berenstain Bears were quite popular in my household.
This is a good book to introduce children to the dentist. It combines the storyline of losing your teeth as your adult teeth come in with the routine of going to the dentist for a checkup. It even covers getting a tooth filled due to a cavity. Our girls love the Berenstain Bears stories, so this is another one for them to enjoy (especially right before their dentist appointments!)
sister bear has a loose tooth. Brother bear has a cavity. There's a lot going on in the Berenstain household. Time to visit the dentist. Will sister bear get her tooth yanked out by the dentist? Will she get a visit from the tooth fairy?Good book to use when kids are loosing their teeth. They can make real world connections.
Stan and Jan Berenstain have a wonderful way of explaining situations that pop up in life in a way that makes sense to small children. This book is a good book to share with them before making that first trip to the dentist office. Strange how kids can get so nervous about something before they even know there is a reason to be nervous.
Yes, they certainly glossed over the painful bits with injections and drills and things didn't they! Funny how neither one felt any pain! Wish I had that dentist then instead of the nutters I've visited! I liked Brother being a little sod and putting the terror into poor sister! He deserved a cavity for that!
This is a cute book that would be good for k - 3. It's good for this age because it is when most kids start to loose their own teeth and can relate to the story. It good be used to teach a health lesson on proper hygiene.
i loved the picture where they show the tooth wiggling. it was both awesome and creepy. plus...who had never done that as a kid? i mean, everyone always thought it was the coolest when someone could turn their tooth in a complete circle....
