https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37452.The_Benchley_Roundup
I also discovered that he put together a collection of his father's essays.
And I also bought that collection and began reading it.
Parcel it out and read it in between other books and it works rather like a sorbet.
Other essays are timeless.
Benchley, compared to Dorothy Parker, has a gentle wit.
His wit is every bit as sharp as Parker's, but the subject of the wit will laugh as well as the audience.
If these essays were written today, I would not rate the book so high, but I am rating it for its time.
Benchley is so Benchley. I'd forgotten just how funny he was. My Mom and I used to read his essays to each other when I was a child. We were great fans.
Very funny book of short stories/articles first published in 1933! I heard about this book in Real Simple magazine. What a bonus.
Oh Bob.This book contains many experiences as seen through the eyes of Robert Benchley.They were written at the turn of the last century, and thus, are a precious time capsule,a peek at a bygone era.
This being said it's a book which will take prominence on my bookshelf as the 2-3 page stories that I DID like will be shared with loved ones in years to come because, sometimes, I just like to have a good belly laugh.
A reprint of the collection selected by his son, this contains some of his best short pieces as well as a few that don't quite hit the mark. Still, so much of it after decades is still laugh-out-loud funny that it's most definitely worth a read. As someone who appreciates a finely-tuned sense of the ridiculous, Benchley more than satisfies with his arch observations of human behavior. Certainly worthwhile even just for "The Menace of Buttered Toast," this collection has earned its permanent spot next to The Portable Dorothy Parker, of which I am sure both parties would approve.
It's perhaps unfair to rate this only 3 stars, but I'm setting it against 5-star Benchley collections such as "My Ten Years n a Quandary and How they Grew." Probably son Nathaniel liked some of these stories because Poppa Bob set Nate on his knee to read them to him. Thing is, several of Bob's best are here--and some of his absolute worst juvenalia. I've loved Benchley since I was 10 years old. All I can say is, find another collection.
Nathaniel Benchley does seem to have made a good job selecting the pieces here, there's not much dead weight. It's certainly more consistent than the other Benchley collections I've read. Although I did enjoy the pieces in this book they are nearly all pleasant, it's just that there is nothing here that I would consider brilliant Benchley in my opinion comes over better in the films he made especially the short subjects.
Humor is dated, but a great book for people who like this sort of thing.
Colchester Library Book Sale June 2012
Solid collection of Benchley's greatest hits.
Funniest stuff I've ever read. Only works if you like 100-year-old humor.
quite amusing at times, but uneven (what collection of nearly 90 different pieces wouldn't be?) and often dated (comedy doesn't age particularly well, although you can still appreciate the wit)
It's amazing that a grown man can be so silly. A template for Dave Barry, as Barry is always quick to point out.
Robert Benchley would not be surprised by some of the comments being made here.
Benchley did not have to endure todays assemblage of boors armed with all manner of electronic rudeness.
As one observant observer noted here, you should not try to read Mr. Benchley's work at a sitting.
Robert Benchley can't cure the worlds madness but he can help you to see it for what it is and perhaps help you to learn to duck.
One last thing, for my money "Down with Pigeons" is still one of the funniest things I've ever read.
My parents bought this for me many years ago on a summer family vacation when our family of 7 (4 teenagers) was crammed in our station wagon for 2 weeks.
Seems like it should have not been the least entertaining to me at such a young age, but it was, and it stuck w/me so that I read it 2 or 3 times on other trips.
I suspect is dated a bit now, but something by an adult for adults that can leave such a strong impression a 14 year old, still raising a happy memory of enjoyment and escape, has demonstrated it is ageless and likely to be timeless as well.
Some very funny pieces. A series of columns written by Robert Benchley in 1920's and 30's. Most of them are still applicable to today's situations.
Our bookclub agreed that a reissuing of the book with historical and social context might make all the difference.
