https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47570.The_Homeward_Bounders
As the story goes on, you start to get the feeling this might be trickier than originally thought, as the kid begins to encounter other Homeward Bounders, including the Flying Dutchman and the Wandering Jew, who have been at this homeward bounding for quite some time.....Okay, so DIANA WYNNE JONES IS A GODDAMN GENIUS, AND I THINK SHE WRITES THE BEST ENDINGS EVER AND I DON'T CARE WHAT ANYONE SAYS.It is not just about how she blends traditional legends and mythology with her own crazy made-up ideas and recurring worlds/characters (I was probably 14 before I realized Guy Fawkes Day was not Jones's own invention -- whoopsie!).
As he travels for months and years without aging, Jamie visits hundreds of worlds with hundreds of societies, some pleasant, some hostile, never allowed to stay long enough to make a home, holding on to just the tiniest hope that he will return Home someday.While the varying societies Jamie visits are fascinating (DWJ was endlessly creative when it came to making new worlds) this book is very much about people and how they treat each other.
While the other characters have supernatural abilities that let them fight their unseen enemy, Adam and his sister provide support in other ways, particularly through knowledge.The revelation of how They are playing their game and what it will take for Jamie and the others to defeat them is complicated, typical for a DWJ novel.
השלך מעליך את התקווה!""ספר פנטזיה טוב מאוד לנוער ולמבוגרים.ג'יימי בן ה- 12 הוא בן למשפחה ענייה.
הוא נער סקרן מאוד וכשהוא מגלה בית נטוש, הוא חייב לגלות מה מסתתר מאחורי הדלתות, שם הוא מגלה שני אנשים מוזרים ללא פנים שמתעסקים במכשיר שלא מוכר לו.
שלושתם מנסים לפענח את הכוחות שעומדים מאחורי הנוודות שנכפתה עליהם וכיצד הם יכולים לשבור את הכללים כדי לשוב לביתם ולמשפחתם.בעיניי הספר עמוק, עצוב ואפל מאוד.
הוא עוסק בדטרמניזם ובכוחות הטבע ששולטים באדם ובתנועות שלו בלי שהאדם יוכל לפענח את הכללים.
האדם מוצג בספר ככלי במשחק גדול שאין לו שליטה לא על המשחק ולא על המהלכים שבו.הוא עוסק בגלות ובמשמעות של המושג בית עבור הגולים.
Not that I cannot or will not review a young adult fantasy, but more likely I am just not attuned to realizing and articulating what is best with this novel. The author is certainly very talented, the story is well crafted and blends more mature elements into a fine adventure story that many young readers will very probably enjoy, but … I just could not get into it, much more of a YA book than what I was expecting.
You all know how much I love Diana Wynne Jones.I discovered this book only a few weeks ago, when I picked it up from an HPB.I did not like this book.Now, don't get me wrong - it was fascinating.
NEEDED TO.BUT YOU GUYS I CRIED SO HARD BECAUSE OF THIS BOOK.AND I KNEW I WAS GOING TO CRY.ALL THE WAY THROUGH THE BOOK I COULD SEE IT COMING, STRAIGHT FROM PAGE ONE.BUT IT HAPPENED.
AND I DID.I MIGHT BE CRYING AGAIN RIGHT NOW.I cannot handle the emotions this book gives me.
Especially to read right before finals.
I didn't see as much of the Diana style reading through this as I normally do.
I am terrible at remembering exact lines, even for poetry or songs, where you'd think the rhythm or sound would help. I regard all the characters in Tam Lin who can quote poetry-- or even the characters in Buffy who can quote movies -- word-perfect with suspicion and envy. I get the scansion right but one of the words wrong or the sense right but not the phrase and worst of it is, I know it's wrong -- I just can't remember what the right version is.I've always remembered the last line of this right. Always.
This has all the usual Jones elements: parallel worlds, girls with magical gifts, mythic beings, and the play on words and logic.
He's a twelve-year-old boy from a lower class family.
He's not interested in school nor does he want to take over the family grocery business.
This sense of wanderlust comes in handy when he intrudes on "them", those other reality beings who are playing games with the lives of Jamie and others on his world.
Jones has filled the story with ideas about war and slaves and otherness (whether from a deformity or created by class difference).
This is one of the most complex yet richly rewarding reads that I have come across.
Based on the idea that all worlds are controlled by gamers who played with our lives, one young boy, Jamie, having discovered 'Them' is cast off from the game and doomed to wonder the different worlds in which they play as a Bounder.
It is for Jamie to discover the rules which govern the game in which he once was a part of in order to find and fight for his way home and yet to finds more to himself and his choices in his life which make for a far richer and rewarding read.
“You wouldn't believe how lonely it gets.”  The Homeward Bounders is definitely unique and takes place in a world that is very typical for Daina Wynne Jones. She does seem to love her universes having multiple worlds, often based on or around ours. When it comes to world variety, it seems very similar to the Chrestomanci series, only that unlike there, the characters in this book have no choice but to travel from world to world. I loved how the plot came to a nice circle by the end of the book
I loved how the plot came to a nice circle by the end of the book - it is narrated by Jamie who manages to deliver the story with a lot of cheek.
So we have a nice narration, interesting variety of worlds and characters, a well-woven plot and a need to read on to find out what exactly is going on.
It honestly did not strike me as that sad - I don't know if it's just the fact that I couldn't fully invest into the characters, or whether I was simply expecting something worse to come.
Not because the main character has a sense of wonder.
The plain explanations, how obviously the main character doesn't understand the things he sees, ignites a sense of curiosity.
There are times you think 'oh, this is going to be one of those children's books where they meet myths and stories?' Then something completely different happens.
It feels random.
Random is good in some respects (surprise, wonder, curiosity) and bad in others (does the author have control over the story?
In the end I found the randomness added to the story.
I don't really know what rating to give this book, I guess 3.5 would be about right. It's a very imaginative story, which doesn't quite explain itself. I found myself re-reading paragraphs quite often to try and make sense of what was happening. For a children's book I think it's somewhat complex but on the other hand, maybe a child would just accept the concepts without trying to understand them! It's well written with interesting characters and despite a rather repetitive theme, it manages to stay interesting.
Reading this book may hurt you. It's that beautiful, and that sad. But it's worth it.
I probably wouldn't have read The Homeward Bounders for a long time to come as it's currently out of print in the the US (except as an e-book) if it weren't for a conversation on Twitter I had with Sage Blackwood in which she said she heard some consider it to be a metaphor for life as a military kid.
For the first part of the novel Jamie is all alone simply telling his story about how he came to be a Homeward Bounder and the way the worlds work.
This is, to date, my favorite standalone DWJ. Yes, there were a few dragging parts, but I felt at the end they were necessary for Jamie's story. And any book that makes me cry is a good book. That ending had me in awe. As always DWJ makes a world, or worlds, that are so utterly fantastic you have no choice but to believe they're real. Every bit of it flowed perfectly to the next.
ג׳יימי מפריע ל„ההם”, ישויות רב ממדיות בעלות עוצמה רבה, וכעונש נזרק מהעולם שלו ונאלץ לנדוד בין עולמות מקבילים שונים.דיאנה ון ג׳ונס מפליאה כרגיל ליצור עולם שלם ומרתק בספר נוער קצר בעוד סופרים אחרים לא מצליחים לבנות עולם אפילו בטרילוגיה עבת כרס. הסוף בעיני פחות מעניין.
Complicated and deep. As if the writer has some sort of mental illness. Still a children's book but there is a sadness and deep meaning inside I can't seem to comprehend.
Diana Wynne Jones was a wildly uneven writer.
Even her worst stuff is better than many writers' best stuff.
This book is one of her best - for the first 2/3 of it - and then it completely disintegrates.
It feels as if she suddenly realized that it was shaping up to be a really long book and she was about to hit a major deadline like, the next day, so she threw in a ton of deus ex machina and bam, finished it.
This is a damn shame because if it only had just kept going the way it started it would be one of the greatest YA fantasy books of the late 20th century.
[September 2005 review.] The more DWJ I read the more I can pick out what themes she likes to use, similarities between different stories, so at the very beginning this book reminded me of her Hexwood, but it ended up being very different.
The premise is that every world ia game played by Them, and if you discover this you get sentenced to wander between worlds.
There are some great cameos from various mythological characters, including The Flying Dutchman and The Wandering Jew, and the narrator is nicely charismatic.
This was a lovely little escape from reality. I hate giving spoilers, so I won't go into details. Just pick it up and have a read. Diana Wynne Jones has a real talent for inventing worlds and telling a story. I do also love how she's basically timed how long it takes a young reader to get bored and will jump in with something intriguing to keep them going. If you're looking to be a writer, you could do worse than to study this master.
oh my god, THIS BOOK IS TOO DEPRESSING. No wonder I haven't read it in ten years and blocked out most of it (although nothing will ever block out "But you wouldn't believe how lonely you get"). brb, SOBBING.
(Actually that’s not entirely true in this case: Jamie tells the story from the scene described at the end of the book, but mostly sticks to what he knew at the time, with occasional bits of foreshadowing that are tantalizing but never enough to give away what’s coming.) As a result, the reader picks up the rules of this new universe along with him, and while meetings with the Prometheus figure, the Flying Dutchman, and the Wandering Jew give the proceedings a tinge of familiarity, they don’t actually tell the reader anything that Jamie doesn’t know.
Jamie has become a Homeward Bounder.This was beautifully written,in the same way that everything by this author that I have read has been.
Jamie is a strong character who teeters on the edge of being a grown up (as he has been traveling for so long), while still retaining enough of the characteristics of a 12-13 year old to be consistent.
I loved the way mythology and legends were woven into the story and the worlds of the Homeward Bounders.
Not too much information to overwhelm or bore you, not too little information to leave you wondering too much.Great kids book, with enough good writing and magical themes for adults who like the genera.
They decide that Jamie is a Random factor and discards him to the Bounds, the place between worlds, where he can travel and meet fellow Homeward Bounders but not enter play.
The book is short but to me it felt like so much has happened in its 260+ pages… and Jamie must really be tired… Considering the weight of his decision, Jamie was really brave, heroic, and very grown up indeed.On another note the story made me think of the implications of accepting or saying that Someone has Plans for your life.
I am definitely enjoying Diana Wynne Jones' books, and I happened to come across these by chance!In this book the story revolves around a young lad, Jamie, that discovers that our 'world' is basically a big boardgame for aliens - I'm thinking something like Risk (or at least how I understand that game is played) but because he discovers this he is cast out from his word and cursed to walk the Bounds (cross between the worlds) until he finds his Home again.
The alternative worlds vary from one end of the spectrum to the other, with Jamie discovering what he can and can't do to survive.
Jamie's disrespect for boundaries and nosiness get him to stumble into 'Them' and 'their game', thus being made a Discart and sent on a journey through hundreds of worlds as a 'Homeward Bounder', is only hope of escaping the endless circle being to find his way back home along the way.
I loved him and liked the book, even though I did cry a little for Jamie at the end - the plot twist seemed very hard on him, but at the same time the game 'they' were playing was too cruel to expect anything else.
If you liked 'Hexwood' you will definitely dig 'Homeward Bounders'

I’m in shock at how good this book is, sprouted from such a simple idea—people bound as pawns in a tabletop war game, essentially.
This has some staples of Jones’s usual writing: big twists, parallel worlds, a blend of mythology.
But it’s also like nothing I’ve ever read of hers.
She twists reality so far and conceives such an intricate premise for the basis of the characters’ world(s) that it completely blew my mind.
But it changes the rules for the way that our reality works, or suggests that it could.
This is a book that I very much loved as a kid, and rereading as an adult, I still find the plot (and the twists), the shout-outs to mythology, and the twisty nature of reality as presented in this story to be completely gripping. The characters were a little less interesting than I remember, but there is certainly an identifiable amount of diversity, which is somewhat atypical of a kids book of the time. The plot is detailed, the world-building spectacular (as one would expect from Jones), and the writing romps along at a great rate.
No sé porqué no había agregado éste libro si lo he leído varias veces y lo amo. Es de los libros más melancólicos de la tía Diana miamor y cada vez que vuelvo a leerlo, de nuevo me parte el corazón.Lo que de me hace curioso cada vez es cómo la añoranza por el hogar propio aumenta con el tiempo, así como la duda de qué es y dónde se encuentra realmente tu hogar. Ese tipo de cuestionamientos le da un matiz diferente a una historia que de por sí ya invita a pensar en el lugar al que perteneces.
Whaaaaaa the heeeeeeeeck did I just read?! I mean, I loved it. I just was not prepared. I thought it was going to be a standard fantasy romp but wow. The story went from 0 to 60 in terms of dark and existential. There are some problematic elements just because it's old (no one who owns another person can be a good person, sorry not sorry), but the rest was A+. I'm going to be thinking about this one for a long while.
