https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1565490.The_Elected_Member
Another of my sporadic attempts to read as many historic Booker Prize winners as possible - this was the second one, and is an entertaining, sympathetic but rather dark study of a close-knit Jewish family struggling with a son's mental health issues and the conflicts between religious traditions and the modern world.
His father and younger unmarried sister Bella, who deeply love Norman but fear his ever more worrisome outbursts, work together to place him in a mental institution, in a last ditch effort to get him back to his old self.As he recuperates in the institution, the three members of the family, and Norman's estranged sister Esther, reflect on how they reached this critical point.
The Zuckers attempt to reconcile their differences once and for all, as Norman descends further into madness and as his father's health begins to fail.The Elected Member was a enjoyable read, filled with humor despite its tragic elements, and hope in the face of despair and crisis.
Some things I'm always out on. Brothers and sisters hooking up is one of them. Probably a decent read, but no thanks.
A beautifully crafted novel.For those who love the writings and work of R.D. Laing who was a big influence on the author, this is a must read. The tragicomic exposing of the dynamics of family dystopia, the 'patient' elected to be the carrier of all ills, and the craziness of some aspects of the psychiatric system.
It follows a brief period of time in the life of Norman, the golden child of his Jewish immigrant family in England whose promise was cut short by bouts of what appears to be schizophrenia.
The story is a merger of his family life and his experiences at a mental institution.
Rubens deftly uses her humor to lay bare the sadness of this life, made sadder because Norman could not see it himself.
One thing this afforded Rubens was the opportunity to flesh out all her characters; she gave each one a chance to become multidimensional, even the ones that seemed at first likely to stand int he shadows as part of Norman's or his father's story.
This is the second book in my personal determination to read the Booker Prize winners in order.
His father, an immigrant rabbi with an erratic grasp of the English language, is the biggest sufferer.
In spite of the grim situation at the heart of the story, this book is full of humor and memorable characters.This is the second winner of the Man Booker Prize, and it was a much easier read than the first.
Now I am on to reading Troubles by J G Farrell, winner of the 'lost' Booker Prize.
A haunting story about secrets, expectations, betrayal, family, loneliness, and madness. Beautifully, believably crafted.
Most of these could arguably be attributed to Norman’s deceased mother, the smothering but cruel Sarah, who seems to ultimately be the cause of every family member’s present misery; her unwillingness to let her children live their own lives leads Norman to drug-taking and Bella to closet herself in a world of childish make-believe, so that she feels that she has never grown up; she still wears her girlish white lace socks, even though she is now in her forties.We also see the devastating effect that the claustrophobic Zweck household has had on their youngest daughter Esther.
This 1970 Booker Prize winner is a strange little novel, maybe you have to be Jewish to really engage with it.
It tells the story of an immigrant Rabbi who comes to the East End of London, marries his first love and produces a dysfunctional family unit, in which all of its members are restricted and ultimately retarded by the rituals and expectations of Judaism.
I found this a frustrating tale of thwarted aspirations with little redeeming features bereft fot the most part of Rubens black humour and quirky irreverance.
Perhaps one of the most beautifully written, thematically profound novels I've ever read. It addresses so much, from insanity to faith to family pain and betrayal. The language is majestic, with phrases like "they were clad in black and bureaucracy," and "she [a Jewish person] called her ring pogrom money, because it was portable currency." There are even hints of so much more, from a possible gay love story, to the ever-present--yet never referenced--effects of the Holocaust on this Jewish family. Tremendous! Not 5 stars--10!
Unbelievable. This book is amazing on so many levels. The plot follows the demise of the Zweck family, an orthodox Jewish family living in London. Rubens does a fantastic job at painting a rich character sketch of each flawed, but lovable, member of the family. A must read.
I could not find it on amazon so brought the paperback version.It is one of the best books books I have read this year.
Norman the son is going mad and it's his family reactions and recollections where the story came alive.
The choices they made are not always honourable or in the best interests of the family but themselves and continuing to live together as a unit but operating singularly is untenable .
To live with these choices is what produces guilt, regret and yes madness.
Taking accountability is not a strength for anyone and avoidance appears to be a constant goal and ties them together.Great book.
The Elected Member is a short and powerful novel.
The reader is taken through the depressing and exasperating experience of a Drug addict and his close family members.
For an outsider, the behavior of the drug addict and his family may appear as ridiculous, but the author has presented the situation so masterfully, that the reader feels how normal their behavior is once you are in their shoes.
In closely knit families and societies, a great deal is chosen for you, and under various circumstances, others have elected you to be you.This is my first Bernice Rubens and I loved it.
The Elected Member was the second winner of the 1970 Booker Prize, after Something to Answer For by P.H.Newby in 1969. Bernice Rubens (1928-2004) was born in Wales and began writing in her middle thirties when the kids went to school. She was shortlisted again in 1978 for A Five Year Sentence, and her winning book was shortlisted with some august company...To read the rest of my review visit http://anzlitlovers.wordpress.com/200...
This was an interesting story about a man struggling with mental issues and his family, a Jewish family not quite integrated into American culture. The father speaks with a Yoda-like speech pattern and feels guilty about everything, and there are a lot of conflicts between tradition and trying to make people happy. Next time I see a silverfish, I might start to worry.
This is a depressing story of a pretty messed up family, but the writing is so good that it is easy to read past what is actually happening and enjoy crawling through the wreckage.Norman Zweck is messed up.
He was a brilliant lawyer but now he is locked up in the family home where he sees silverfish everywhere.
The book starts as his father and sister decide he needs to be committed.
And so we get to know the family, including the other, estranged sister and the dead mother.You will end up being thankful for your own family.
Although we have sympathy for Norman as he experiences the horrors his mind produces, we have even more sympathy for his family who have to deal with the effects (although not for the dead mother, who does not seem to have been a positive influence).There were better written books on the 1970 shortlist and more enjoyable ones, but Bernice Rubens is tackling the serious issue of mental health and writing a compulsive family drama.
This is not a cheerful story and the book could have become dreary, but is lifted a little by the return of the long estranged younger daughter.
This book is a revelation. Heart warming.A must read.
A very well written tale of a dysfunctional family written long before such tales became fashionable.
I can see why this was a booker prize winner I really enjoyed it! So strange with the hallucinations of silverfish, and very sad towards the end.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
נפילתה ונפילתה של משפחה יהודית בלונדון של שנות ה-60. הצער והעצב היו נסבלים בזכות ההומור שבכל זאת נמזג עמם. נקודה רצינית אחת עליה אני מתרעמת: התפקיד המרכזי ששתלטנותה של האם המנוחה מילאה בנפילה הזו. הרבה יותר מדי סטיריאוטיפי.
What a beautifully written book with a tragi-comic perspective about a Jewish family whose son, Norman, has been committed to a mental hospital after repeated bouts with drug abuse. The Elected Member is an eloquent novel of familial dysfunction and one well-deserved of the Booker prize.
I felt from the start of the novel that the pathos for Rabbi Zweck would be manipulated as much as possible, and that certainly did happen.
How did you interpret the Title, who is The Elected Member?Mother: For a character that has long been dead at the start of a novel, the mother had an incredible amount of influence on this family and their lives.
Do you think that if the novel was told in a more traditional way (instead of stories and flashbacks) beginning with the Rabbi's move to London, his marriage and the family's drama, and ending with Rabbi Zweck's passing, you would have had a different idea of the family?
The Elected Member centres on the Zweck family: a father lives above the shop he keeps with his son and one of his daughters.
The doctor convinces them that, with Norman's repeated relapses, the only way to help him is to commit him to a home, where he can be rehabilitated.Norman's 'incarceration' prompts a reflective mood in the family, and little by little, we learn about the family's history and the dark secrets that are the root cause of unhappiness for each of the Zwecks.The book is easy to read, and though much is revealed, the pace of the story seems rather plodding - a pace that fits Norman's mentality.
This tragicomic novel follows the Zweck family as they deal with loss, not death per say (although there is that too), but the loss of dreams, ambitions and hope.The family patriarch Rabbi Zweck immigrates to London, settles in the Jewish neighborhood and has three children.
He was smart boy with a strong knack for languages who eventually starts a promising career in law.The novel centers around the slow unveiling of what drove Norman over the edge and brought his family with him.
But her husband remembers her solely as beautiful on their first meeting and then domineering after that in dealing with her children.
Although similar in setting (a psychiatric hospital) this novel is not a "British" version of the American tale, and although sharing a thin theme around authoritative control it looks at the plight of the main protagonist through a number of eyes.The story opens with Norman Zweck a one time brilliant barrister, the idol of his close-knit Jewish family, confined to his parent's old bedroom, drug addicted and suffering hallucinations.
Rabbi Zweck, his father, and his sister Bella who still lives at home and wears white ankle socks, have no option but to have Norman committed to a psychiatric hospital.The tale is one seen through the eyes of Rabbi Zweck, Norman, Bella and the estranged sister Esther, with their visions of guilt, blame and worries told for each character.
The story, published in 1969, struck me as terribly relevant to today's speed addicted populace; from the overuse of ADD drug prescriptions (NY Times, "More Diagnoses of Hyperactivity Causing Concern", April 1, 2013, p.
1), to modern day's dreadful, widespread Cocaine and Methamphetamine untoward glorifications and besotted cravings.In my opinion, Bernice Rubens nails it when she describes the consequences of amphetamine abuse such as Norman's paranoia and obsession with the ubiquitous (internal-delusional parasitosis and hallucinatory-external) "creepy crawling silver fish", as well as describing the pathos and love surrounding the lives of the addict.
the despair of the insane, the consequences of denial of responsibilities for one's actions, these are all covered in "The Elected Member", the second winner of the Man Booker awards back in 1970.
What is evident is that Bernice Rubens is an amazing writer and that this is a brilliantly written story of a dysfunctional family.
It is a compelling read and should be a model for the many modern novelists who continue to bring the dysfunctional family genre to the best sellers list.
I will continue to read the older award winners (Man Booker, NBA, Penn Faulkner etc.) in my quest to understand how literary judges perceive "great modern literature.
This is a depressing story of a pretty messed up family, but the writing is so good that it is easy to read past what is actually happening and enjoy crawling through the wreckage.Norman Zweck is messed up.
He was a brilliant lawyer but now he is locked up in the family home where he sees silverfish everywhere.
The book starts as his father and sister decide he needs to be committed.
And so we get to know the family, including the other, estranged sister and the dead mother.You will end up being thankful for your own family.
