https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72401.What_is_Cinema_
compiles highlights from French film theorist André Bazin's four-volume set of his collected criticism: Vol. I takes selections from the set's first half, Vol. II from its second.
Guided by an unwavering faith in realism, the first half of Vol. I theorizes film in relation to what Bazin calls the myth of total cinema, the hope that film might one day be capable of reproducing the world in perfect detail.
The second half of Vol. I, by contrast, differentiates the 'essence' of film from that of other art forms, namely theatre, literature, and painting.
Excellent book of essays by Andre Bazin, widely regarded as one of the best film critics ever.
The best thing about this book is you don't have to have a Master's degree in Film Studies to understand them.
It's too bad he died in 1958 when he was only 40, it would have been interesting to hear his thoughts on movies from the 60's to the 90's with the advances in technology as time went on such as computer graphics etc., as well as increased nudity in film, the tendency to more and more graphic violence etc.
A B C سينما :Dوعيب اقرأه في مرحلة متأخره كده بعد العمر ده كله والله، بس أخيرًا عملتها/ لقيته
Also included are writings on Italian Neo-realism, Nanook of the North, Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times, and the important distinction between cinema and the theater.I enjoy Eisenstein as well, and for the most part find that the possibilities of formal editing more easily manipulative than the stylistic restrictions of realism.
Cinema is a contrived medium like any other, but I think that this demarcation is important to the history of which.
Ultimately, I think that this argument, said argument being the distinction between realist/formalist cinema is the genesis of important film theory.

I learned some pretty interesting things about film from this book, but to be honest, I had almost no idea what Bazin was talking about most of the time. Whether that's because I'm not smart enough to fully comprehend his arguments or if his writing is targetted towards a specific niche of academics, I don't know. Either way, this wasn't quite the book I was hoping for when I bought it.
Not what I was looking for, but still some insight for a novice film study.
3.5
André Bazin SUCH A genius
And within that vein, he seeks to clarify the role of the cinema in the modern artistic landscape.
Unlike that perennial mope Adorno (as much as I love the grumpy fuck), Bazin sees cinema as a way to forge new artistic language.
Against the charges that cinema was replacing the time-honored traditions of literature and theater, Bazin argues that cinema favors more “cinematic” expressions, while literature and theater ought to focus on that which they do best-- render unto theater that which is theater's, and unto cinema the things which are cinema's.
It remains bold, and remains some of the best writing about cinema I've ever read, up there with the high-water marks set by Ebert and Kael.
I started this book two years ago and i was stumbling all the way through due to reading conditions of but this book if i have to give an honest resolution is one of the works that could be relied on as very beneficial to anyone who looks beyond technical cinema crafting.
Basin philosophical background made it easy for him to just defragment philosophical notions on cinema perspectives, this appeared in the chapters slowly explaining how should simply a moving image should be- the aesthetics of using the camera to grasp a certain ethereal ontological sense of intellectuality founded in scripts or through ideas drawn into certain scenes.
El libro no se vuelve del todo teórico o aburrido gracias a ilustraciones como descripciones de películas o escenas.
En contra: las películas que usa de ejemplo son mayormente francesas y de su época (un patriótico?), y en general no me sentí muy iluminado después de leerlo.
Mis highlights son la sección sobre Chaplin y una sobre el cine verdaderamente infantil.
Libro no obligatorio para nadie.
I'm not that interested in film theory, but I liked this book more than I thought I would. Bazin really is a wonderful writer, and he has some very interesting ideas. I don't totally buy his theory that the photograph is completely objective and lacking in human participation, but it's interesting to see how he plays it out. And his dissection of the different ways that audiences experience and respond to theater and cinema is fantastic.
refined. the impulse, the benefit and the possibilities of what can be achieved when participating in art, the development of meaning and the science of it. bazin always seeks benefit, another insight. cinema is a container for his love of civilization as noun and verb. it is also daring, there is a sense that he is forming ideas as he writes and enjoys and respects the trajectory. i love it. it is one of the books i kiss after reading, along with spinoza and a few other special books.
"The photographic image is of the object itself, the object freed from the conditions of time and space that govern it. No matter how fuzzy, distorted, or discolored, no matter how lacking in documentary value the image may be, it shares, by virtue of the very process of its becoming, the being of the model of which it is the reproduction; it is the model."
I absolutely love the way Bazin writes - he represents for me a possible model. Theory, I think, requires the sort of admiration and curiosity (rather than cold scientific inquiry) evident throughout these books. Whether or not I agree with his tastes, this and the second volume beg further exploration.
This is another book for my film class, so I didn't read the entire thing, but what I did read was better than the Arnheim book the week before. I think this still assumes some knowledge on the part of the reader, but then again, I imagine the author never thought it would be read by someone just taking a class to fulfill a credit requirement.
Much of these essays are about the relationship between various arts and cinema. Painting/photography & cinema. Theater & cinema. Literature & cinema. The arguments being presented are often of a type that have long since been settled (does anyone really have a problem with novel adaptations?), but Bazin is an enjoyable author, and I really liked the first couple essays quite a bit.
from the creator of film criticism (by way of Cahiers du Cinema), enchanting historical and theoretical and ethnographic prose. gets after the breadth of the cinema experience and of "cinema" as a concept and field of study, itself.
"Before the arrival of photography and later cinema, the plastic arts were the only intermediaries between actual physical presence and absence." Classic and essential film theory. Definitely going into the thesis.
Quintessential film theory from French theorist Andre Bazin. Topics under discussion include the ontology of the photographic image, the evolution of cinema as a language. Interesting use of metaphor throughout.
Absolute must-read film theory. The preeminent realist. I don't agree with everything he writes, but I can tell you it is hard to argue against. Be on the lookout for polemics.
If you don't know before reading this book, not only with it not help you, it will make you never want to see a movie again.
One of the best books about cinema.
want to read the book.
i learned about cinema
Interesting approach, and midpoint a seminal work of theory and criticism. But dated in light of where the art form has gone.
Some interesting parts that are now a part of my filmic vocabulary, but mostly bleh and unmemorable.
Read it before in a different time and place, going back to it just to see what I think now.
"On the other hand, a new subject matter demands new form, and as good a way as any towards understanding what a film is trying to say to us is to know how it is saying it."
