https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556629.The_Holiness_of_God
Few authors possess the keen ability to help readers come into a grasp of the nature of God's holiness, but through this book Dr. Sproul is able to help us better understand what God's holiness means and transport the reader into the presence of God.We often hear many talk about how God is love, yet why do fewer ever speak of His holiness and justice?
Dr. Sproul helps readers dig deeper beneath a superficial surface of what it means that God is holy--bringing us into a deeper understanding and love of who God is, a greater awe for His absolute holiness, and reverence in worship.
Having read it I am surprised it is a classic.
The author covers various passages of Scripture to try and demonstrate the holiness of God. He makes some good points especially in relation to those who ask how a God of love can allow suffering/send people to Hell.
He reminds us that we all deserve Hell due to our sin which is an affront to God's holiness and that it is only by God's grace that we are saved (through faith.) Although the book is biblically sound I found it hard going and a bit disjointed.
This is a must-read for any Christian. I remember how formative it was for me, and I'm glad to have re-read it.
Sproul does attempt to define it, but it is best truly understood by stories, anecdotes, and analogy.To this end, most of the book is Sproul examining personal stories that demonstrate holiness, but more importantly, and more extensively, he looks at the Bible to show what Scripture has to say about holiness.Early on he looks at the Lord's Prayer, and notes that when we say it we "...often confuse the words "hallowed be your name" with part of the address, as if the words were "hallowed is your name." In that case the words would merely be an ascription of praise to God. But that is not how Jesus said it.
At some point I'm sure I'll actually finish this - maybe even at some sooner rather than later time - but wanted to note an issue that I was surprised to hear and that has leaped to mind on just about every occasion I listened to this particular part.
In this part, Sproul recounts an early sermon he preached during a preaching class in seminary in which he talked about God's neverending grace or mercy.
I would say my moments of "wow" have come in Sproul's way of getting at the unfathomable greatness of the Creator of all things.
R. C. Sproul is becoming on of my favorite authors. This book is filled with wisdom. If you haven't read it you should.
After the Bible, this book should be the first read by any new Christian.
Good read, Dr. Sproul knows the scripture and teaches it.
While I don't agree with him on everything (and woe be to me if he heard that as I've listened to him and he doesn't appreciate that kind of thing) this is a good and worthwhile read.
The picture in God's Holiness is true but I think not complete here as God has made provision through Jesus and the Holy Spirit for man to approach Him. Still like I said...good read and a lot to teach.
Dr. Sproul's knowledge of scripture is impressive, even daunting and he's always a worthwhile read and someone to listen to.
This is a classic I have had on my bookshelof for quite awhile and just now got around to reading.
I chose to read it at this time because next month I am going to the Ligonier Mininstries National Conference and the conference theme this year is the Holiness of God. This was an excellent book- though a heavy topic this book was well written, easy to comprehend, and a joy to read.
My copy included study questions at the end of each chapter that would be good to journal or good to use in a group study.
Chapter 6, "Holy Justice," was superb. I'll definitely be re-reading that chapter when I can! God is never unjust in his dealings with men; He either shows mercy, or shows justice. But He so frequently shows mercy, that humans begin to demand His mercy, and scorn His justice. Chapter 6 is worth your time and attention.
Awesome book by Sproul!! Great use of biblical stories and modern day analogies to show and explain the Holiness of God! Strongly encourage everyone to read!
Sproul goes over key texts on the Holiness of God such as Isaiah 6 as well as some biographical information on key figures in Christianity who have been influenced by a proper understanding of the Holiness of God, such as Sproul’s discussion of Martin Luther’s conversion in chapter 5 and an overview of Jonathan Edward’s famous sermon, Sinner’s in the hands of an Angry God, in chapter 9, where Sproul also discusses a similar sermon that Jonathan Edwards preached, which is not as well known: Men Naturally God’s Enemies.
Love his writing style and "hearing" it in his distinctive, half-laughing voice.
Actual Ratings: 4:5
I mean, imagine writing a book just on God’s holiness.The first three chapters are introductory (though you may find many of the points familiar – think many preachers have referred to this classic book on holiness when they prepared their scripts) But i like the 4th chapter, “the trauma of holiness”, where examples in the Bible are quoted to show how a glimpse at God’s holiness can set us in trauma.
He reports Romans 8 “renew the mind” means “nothing more and nothing less than education.” He tells us “we are called to strive with all our might to produce this fruit [of the Spirit].” He reports to “make decision” to be born again is a “delusion.”“Don’t ever ask God for justice--you might get it.” The above errors can be excused as partisan politics (yes, theologians do it), but his attempt to discredit Arminian theology by labeling it semi-Pelagian is disingenuous.
Masking the Arminian versus Calvinist dichotomy under different labels does nothing for Sproul’s credibility.
A wonderful work on the holiness of God by Dr. Sproul!
Definitely added to the favorites shelf.
My favorite part was how he expounded on the justice of God and how gracious God really is to us, but that too often, we presume on His grace.
One of my favorite quotes:“The clearest sensation that a human being has when he experiences the holy is an overpowering and overwhelming sense of creatureliness.
That is, when we are in the presence of God, we are humbled and become most aware of ourselves as creatures.
This is the opposite of Satan's original temptation, 'You shall be as gods.'” ― R.C. Sproul, The Holiness of God
When I started this book I had this sense that there would be knowledge in here that once illuminated in my life, I would be held more accountable for this information. Upon completion of this book I have found it to be true. Sproul dives into the Holiness of God in it's full majesty, truth, wrath, justice, mercy, grace and love. It is all of who He is, He is Holy. I would recommend this book as it challenges our thinking from the natural view of God to see His Majestic Holiness in it's full truth.
For me the strong points here involved the historical information, for example, about Luther. Sproul bridges the gap between devotional book and commentary, and applications are plenteous. It just didn't engage my intellect very much. Something like Mary Douglas's book on Leviticus, while not intending to be "devotional" by any means, gets at the biblical idea of "holiness" more effectively because it is so text-oriented. This one didn't really fill in any gaps in my understanding of holiness, but there were some good reminders here, if nothing very new.
RC Sproul left me hungry for more of God's Holiness. As I was about to finish reading this book, I could hear myself at the back of my mind saying, "Whaaa! I want more, more!" This book holds no limit in discussing God's holiness. I mean, it is not the typical type of read. It did not settle with the common knowledge we have about God. Rather, it provided a fresher, braver look into God's supremacy and His holiness. Thus, it had me craving for more and more, I did not want to stop reading it.
I took 5ever to finish this book (because of my own laziness) . but this is a must read for all Christians. really explains & expounds on God's holiness & just how central it is to our understanding of God. it really is a great thing to to look into, completely makes God that much bigger & fantastic & majestic & awesome than we can ever believe or realize. & we are just that much evil, depraved & unholy & terrible & deserving of God's wrath than we think we are. we must remember that.
This is a powerful study of the character of God the Father, moving Christians from a kind of apology for Him in preference for the softer side of Christ's mercy. The author's unwavering in probing to see what we can learn from the very Scriptures about Him we would rather whitewash in an effort to fashion an idol of our own choosing.
A surprisingly enjoyable read, considering the meaty theological topic.
Excellent work. Definitely a book I would suggest.
Favorite quotes: "The moment Jesus was slain, the instant the Just One died for the unjust, the veil in the temple was torn, The presence of God became accessible to us.
We have access to His grace, but even more, we have access to Him. Justified people need no longer say to the Holy One, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful man.""I am sure that the reason I have a deep hunger to learn of the holiness of God is precisely because I am not holy.
My soul needs more."
This is a good book.
I have two bits of advice pertaining to if you should read it.
Second, if you simply are intrigued by the title, and want to dive deeper into the holiness of God, then I’ll recommend Sproul’s lecture series by the same title.
It will save you some time, and I found the lectures a bit more interesting and engaging than the book.
The book is by no means bad, but while I rated the book four stars, I would certainly rate the lectures five stars.
An excellent explanation of a central of God's nature: I highly recommend it. The last chapter is the weakest, where he attempts (and fails, I think) a defense of modern "holy places" or "sanctuaries" with only experiential evidence. But otherwise, solidly valuable.
Both of these attributes are facets of His holiness.Meditation on God's holiness changes people.Sproul devotes a whole chapter to one man's perception of God's holiness, Martin Luther.
This plays out in my life as I see that God has every right to execute me for any sin, yet he gives me grace so often.
I know that the more I hate my sin, the more I will appreciate and cherish Jesus!Dr. Sproul widens the reach of God's holiness and addresses some difficult passages of Scripture where God seems to kill innocent people.
Such reading often lacks any entertainment value and thus one must push forward to gain benefit.However, soon, I was joining the author in the struggle to have just an inkling of the holiness of God and to examine its implications for mankind, and for my own personal walk with Christ.Sproul wrestles with some of the most difficult passages in the Scripture as he seeks to explain how believers have grown accustomed to thinking of God's grace and mercy to such an extent that when God acts in judgment of sin we are shocked and devastated.
If there is one characteristic of God that must be embraced and is, in fact, at core of who God is, mark it down, it is not God's love but His holiness.
It may even provide some answers to very deep and thought provoking questions that many ask today, such as "Why would a good and loving God tell Israel to kill an entire people, women, men, and children?"Amazing read, and worth reading again to drive home that God is holy above all else and there is no other like Him.
