https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/834424.Shadows_on_the_Rock
Three and a half starsThis is the first work I have read by Willa Cather and it is a historical novel set in Quebec in 1687-8.
It is told from the point of view of 12 year old Cecile Auclair and her father Euclid, an apothecary.
For an seventeenth century father Euclid is rather enlightened; tolerant of his daughter’s religious thoughts and expressions, adding a mildly sceptical note and pushing her to ask questions.
I think I need to read more Cather and this may not have been a good place to start.
Willa Cather is known for her classic novels set in the 18th century American prairie, but in this one she moves to 17th century, French Colonial Quebec. But what remains the same is Cather's beautiful writing and her exceptional ability to create memorable characters, and craft stories that is historical fiction at it's finest. Reading this, one gets the sense of life the French settlers experienced in this lonely Canadian outpost, and the influence of the French culture that still lives in Quebec today.
The little happenings in the life of a 12-year old Canadian girl and her colonial friends and family are small matters indeed, but Cather managed to infuse them with such grace that one cannot help but be drawn in to the heartfelt joys and sorrows that are the stuff of every human life--and in particular, constitute the life of a civilized colonist on a barren rock in the New World.It is hard not to let one's heart expand with Cecile's as she hauls her little friend behind her on his sled up the hill and rejoices in her contentment even as she wonders at the possibility of being moved back to France.
This is a wonderful, peaceful evocation of a distant time and place. Reminded me of Sarah Orne Jewett's THE COUNTRY OF POINTED FIRS. If you're a Willa Cather fan, like me, don't overlook this novel.
She’s an author – as a UCF lit professor reminded me last night – who really delves into the soul of place as well as she does character.In Shadows on the Rock, a poor widows pharmacist and his daughter are living in Quebec (“Kebec” throughout the novel.) They are under the patronage of the France-appointed governor, an old man.
The UCF lit professor I spoke with also mentioned that Cather is quiet and even somewhat pastoral, qualities that aren’t currently in fashion (as if our reading should merely be based on literary fad.)Shadows on the Rock caught me at times by its simple beauty.
Willa Cather is easily one of my favorite authors. Here she takes us to Quebec in about the year 1700. These brave souls left civilization behind - all the way across the Atlantic Ocean. Ships would arrive only during the summer months. And that assumes they made it safely across the ocean. She tells the tale of lives lived in the settlement. Typical Cather - not much happens. But she digs deep into the characters. Really great book.
Shadows on the Rock is a tale of Quebec City during the final days of the royal governor Louis Frontenac and colonial New France.
Of course, Cather's brilliance, at least to me, remains in the way she creates a sense of time and place with her rich and poetic depictions of landscape, weather and geography.
She made me "sense" the frozen landscape of the St. Lawrence River, its surrounding hills and forests, and the great Upper and Lower Towns of Quebec.
A theme that seemed to run through the novel is how far and alien Canada was from the colonial's home in France was and how faith kept them connected as a people.
After completing Death Comes for the Archbishop, Cather wrote this novel about the town of Quebec in the late 1600s, and similarly included actual historical figures as characters, and referred to actual historical events.
With Cather's unmatched descriptive ability, it's easy for the reader to get a sense of what colonial life must have been like in a place that was cut off from the mother country between October and June of every year.
And again it is the complex, well-drawn characters that add meaning to the story.
It's clear that that spirit was deeply interesting to Cather, and she has passed her interest on to us.
I found it in the library and decided to give it a try -- it's a portrait of the town of Kebec, currently known as Quebec City to anglophones, in the late 17th century.
Lots of it is based on the truth, but the characters are so fully drawn, and the descriptions of the St. Lawrence River and the Rock, aka Kebec, are so beautiful, it's a poetically inspired historical novel.
I have never known much about the settlement of New France in the time of Louis XIV, and this was an inspiring snapshot.
Okay, I'll try to get a little more specific.
They truly are real, live, flesh-and-blood people .
You know how people will often say, "This book is like a trip to such-and-such a place"?
Reading this book, you truly DO feel like you're being transported to another time and place.
I love the fact that I can read through one of Cather's descriptions of the frozen snow, or the glowing red sunset, or the bustling harbor, or even just Cecile's little kitchen--and then I just close my eyes and I literally SEE it all in my mind.
I studied Willa Cather in grad school. Grad school was one of the worst periods of my adult life. This is the first time I’ve attempted to read her since, and I find myself still unable to separate out those unhappy memories enough to appreciate her. That, and I’ve been listening to a rather badly narrated audiobook, and I’ve also been listening for what seems like HOURS to a dreary story about some old nun. I’m done.
Its history will shine with bright incidents, slight, perhaps, but precious, as in life itself, where the great matters are often as worthless as astronomical distances, and the trifles dear as the heart’s blood.”This is how she makes such a quiet novel, one with minimal plotting, so compelling, even riveting at times, by making "the trifles dear as the heart's blood."This is my 6th Cather novel, and though any objective evaluation (if such a thing exists)would not rank it with The Professor's House and Death Comes for the Archbishop, in terms of personal reading pleasure (what else is there?), I would give it 5 stars, so let's split the difference and settle on 4 1/2 stars.Now I'm off to read more of Francis Parkman's Gibbonesque History of France and England in North America, one of her sources, to see how Cather transforms grand historical figures like Count Frontenac and Bishop Laval into such rich fictional characters.
This quiet book captured me with the beauty of its writing, its description of an isolated pioneer life where people had to make the best of what they had, and some purely religious stories of a kind you rarely find in novels anymore.In this novel of interconnected stories, Cather describes the promontory of "Kebec" in the late 1600s and early 1700s, primarily through the eyes of an apothecary who left France to follow the count who had lived next to his father's shop in Paris.
It's just a year in the life of a 12-year-old girl, her widower father, and their friends, making a life for themselves in Quebec in 1697.In a way it's sort of a fairy tale.
It's appeal lies in the likability of the characters, and in Cather's picturesque writing style that really makes you see the city, with "no building on the same level as any other" and the striking view of the "basse ville" from the "haute ville."One warning: there are words, phrases, sentences, and in one case an entire paragraph written in French without a translation provided.
So, if you don't read French, you may want to hunt down an annotated edition.
This book tells the story of Old Quebec, under the Governorship of Count Frontenac. While I can't speak to its historical accuracy, it did give me a sense for what life was like in that time period for those living on the edge of the Canadian wilderness. It led me to a greater understanding of the French Canadian desire to preserve their heritage. It also made me want to visit Quebec and Montreal, especially during the Fall. It was just a pleasure to read Cather's writing while also learning something about Canada's past.
Willa Cather is, hands down, one of the best authors there is. Her writing is poignant, beautiful, and simple, filled with terrific characters and lovely settings; yet it is quite real and sticks you right in amongst the story. This book is about the life of a France-born apothecary and his young daughter, as they face the colorful happenings of a "New France" or Canadian town. A must-read.
Set in 1697, in the Quebec of elderly Count Frontenac and retired Archbishop Laval, Shadows on the Rock describes a year in the life of apothecary Euclide Auclaire and his daughter Cecile.
Look instead to the details, to (in Cather’s phrase) “all the little shades of feeling which make the common life fine.” In fact, Cather’s passage below, on the role of miracles in the lives of the faithful, seems almost to describe her book.
Living in a literate culture, reading habitually, we sometimes forget or become insensitive to the strange power that stories like Cather’s may have:“The people have loved miracles for so many hundred years, not as proof or evidence, but because they are the actual flowering of desire.
Recommendation on BookishPrincess BookTube Channel - 7/20/2017
Indelible portrait of French settlers in Quebec in the 18th century. Vivid senic descriptions, strong sense of place, charming character portraits, love for nature and humanity. A treasure.
Willa Cather is an American writer who was born in 1873 and wrote 12 novels, as well as other collections of short stories and essays.
The book focuses primarily on twelve-year-old Cecile Auclair whose father owns an apothecary shop.
Pierre Charon, a fur trapper with very little love for the Catholic Church, is one of these people.
Pierre, an old family friend, has a good heart, and Cecile always enjoyed being with him.
However, it is a historical novel that tells the reader a good deal about this time in Quebec history, and it is skillfully written.
4.5 stars rounded up to 5. I was a little dissatisfied with the ending...but overall very much enjoyed this beautiful work of historical fiction . Warning, if you need a page-turning plot driven novel, this probably is not the right book. This book has beautiful writing, thoughtful character development, and left me with so many greater things to think about.
Easy read, without much of a plot. I enjoyed it but it lacked depth.
Its settled: I'm going to Quebec after reading this book.
As is the earlier book, "Shadows on the Rock" is influenced heavily by Cather's fascination with Catholicism (a religion she did not practice), her love of French civilization, and her interest in frontier places.Cather's novel is set in the remote world of "New France", in French Quebec of 1697.
The book is a coming-of-age story for Cecile, but it differs from the usual form of coming-of-age books in its quiet flow, stress on the ordinary world of everyday, and domesticity.Cather gives the reader a picture of the life of old Quebec through the interactions of its people with Cecile and Euclide.
Willa CatherQuebec in the late 1700’s comes to life in this lovely piece by Willa Cather. A kind and gentle world.
The historical story opens as a supply ship leaves Quebec and Euclide Auclair, the apothecary sees the shadow of the ship against the rocks of Quebec, knowing that the ship and supplies wouldn't return until spring.\Reading about an apothecary so many years ago and his dispensing medicine and advice was interesting.
How life has changed from that time is something that Willa Cather describes very well.The story, the description of early Quebec and the characters are all things that were pleasant to read and will be remembered by the readers.
This edition of the novel has a reading line on the cover: "A novel of Quebec during the last days of Frontenac, 1697-1698," and I wonder what inspired her to write about that time and place.A good read, as I would expect from Cather, but it is an odd novel: We look in on an apothecary and his daughter in Quebec City, and while making us care about their lives and the lives of people around them, we learn a lot about those times and some historical figures, too.
But Cather is so brilliant, once the reader is caught up in the story, it all seems more real than the room where I am sitting as I read.
This book was my favorite of the three works by Cather I have read.
She has an amazing ability to create a wonderful sense of place.
The story itself was a bit predictable, but there was so much beauty in her descriptions of colonial Quebec.
Yet, the descriptions did not detract from the story and it was a quick read.
The plot still flowed quite well and made me appreciate the efforts of the colonists' ability to survive such harsh conditions as a Canadian winter and wilderness.
I want to read more of her work.
I'm not sure why I liked this so much - partly, I think, it was just the right book at the right time.
Cather's voice is so unassuming and straightforward, and she builds her characters so carefully that it seems effortless, which I'm sure it was not.
I have no idea how I got this far through my life not having read anything by her except a couple of short stories at uni.
Such a fascinating period to write about too.
I think I can say, with certainty, that this is the only book I have ever read about Quebec in the 17th Century.
I really enjoyed this novel set in old "Kebec." I am familiar with some of Cather's other works, but particularly admired this surprise (I bought it for a nickel at a used book sale) with the vivid details of the 17th century, as Cecile, her apothecary father (Euclid), neglected Jaques, old Bishop Laval, etc. struggle in their daily lives. Lots of French (which I don't read), a perspective on Catholicism, and weather descriptions that made me despite November in PA wasn't that bad. Some great stories within the story, and a satisfying epilogue.
