https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47588.Drawing_Blood
When her first novel, Lost Souls, was released, it breathed new life into the bland, clichéd vampire that had become de rigueur, by giving us vamps that loved being what they were and mixing them with goth scene characters who were actually more than brooding, pretentious teens in black clothes, nail polish, and eyeliner.
And the FBI agents following Zach get the full treatment as well, becoming more than one would guess in a novel of this type.The residents of Missing Mile are equally fascinating, a mix of character traits which could have become cartoonish in lesser hands, but remain blessedly real in the human emotion underneath each of them, the force that drives them.
A good old haunted house story is something I've always loved, so when the narrator of this tale offered me a chance to listen to the audio in exchange for a review, I jumped at it.
Brite is an author I've heard a lot about and I've been wanting to read his work for quite some time.
Brite can write.Trevor is a young man returning to the house where his mother and brother were killed 20 years ago.
Recommended, as long as you're not looking for a horror tale and you don't mind a lot of romance and sexy times!
I GOT MY HANDS ON THE AUDIO!!!! Review soooon.
I always refer to this book as my second most favorite book in the world (Geek Love by Katherine Dunn will always be my #1) but I haven’t read it since it was first released back in 1993 so I approached this recent audio release with equal amounts of joy and dread.
If you like those things along with a well-drawn sense of place, gorgeously lush writing, flawed characters and you don’t mind explicit sex between two men (and lots and lots of it) you should give this a listen.
3,75/5"Cuando cierras los ojos te marchas a otra parte durante unas horas, y mientras estas fuera, cualquier cosa puede ocurrir, cualquier cosa inimaginable. El mundo entero puede desaparecer bajo tus pies."Libro entre medias de erótico y terror, con muchas dosis de sexo y sangre con una casa encantada de fondo. Una novela muy curiosa y extraña que me ha convencido.Reseña completa.-Wordpress: https://suenosentreletras.wordpress.c...-Blogger: http://addicionaloslibros.blogspot.co...
Sin duda Zach ha utilizado sus dotes de hacker para piratear las opiniones de Goodreads.
Es imposible que tenga tantas puntuaciones de cinco estrellas esta especie de Crepúsculo (es el ejemplo que me ha venido de novela erotico/festiva de adolescentes) gay con una trama de hackers que al final no interesa a nadie.
NADIE puede decir que son personajes adorables porque ambos se vuelven insoportables a partir de la página 100 aproximadamente.
Y el final??
Absolutamente decepcionante.
Si se lleva dos estrellas es porque: 1) Lo he leído rápido2) Los LOLES comentándolo con el grupo del club de lectura.

My favorite Brite novel, and the one with the best characterization. A young man returns to the home where his father went homicidally insane years ago. While there, he meets and falls in love with a hacker on the run. Is their love enough to combat the sinister madness of the house?
I'm not sure I would classify this novel as horror. I guess there is that entire possible, maybe astral projection episode in the end, but again, maybe it was just a drug fueled mind trip. Regardless, this was a powerful story about two really F'ed up characters who found each other and made each other just a little better.
LOVED this novel. Erotic and terrifying. Hot sexy times as well.
A partir de ahí, las primeras cien páginas uno las pasa pensando que el libro tiene un arranque lento.
Contras· El continuo elogio al maltrato que supone la piedra angular de todo lo demás en este libro.· Probablemente los diálogos más artificiales y peor escritos que he tenido la desgracia de leer.· Trama inexistente y una supuesta casa encantada a la que de vez en cuando se le dedican un par de párrafos para que el lector no olvide que está allí.· Todo lo relacionado con las supuestas habilidades de hacker de Zach, claramente escritas por alguien que considera que un ordenador funciona con magia y duendecillos y reduce a los informáticos a un estereotipo estúpido.
Somewhere near the end of this book, I decided it was the best story I've ever read.
Shortly after Trevor and Zach meet, they decide to stay in that very house on Violin Road where the murders had occurred.
Eventually, the house turns out to be haunted and hazardous for both of them which hardly hinders Trevor from his questing for the truth.Even though it’s been written by a female author, Brite masters the art of depicting male-to-male sexuality with such grotesqueness, sensuality and innocence it’ll make gay and bi male readers of this book get a hard-on every time a chapter drifts into a sex scene and will seldom make your eyes water at the tenderness those boys convey each other.Brite’s prose in “Drawing blood” is enjoyably fluent with vigorous character development and a suspenseful course of spooky events.
Brite, Drawing Blood (Dell, 1993)I've been a fan of Poppy Brite's novels ever since I read Exquisite Corpse back in 1997, but (and here I lose most of my cred with my goth friends), I've never been a fan of Steve and Ghost.
Because of it, however, I never did read Drawing Blood, a Missing Mile novel that, as it turns out, contains Steve and Ghost only by reference; this one sucked me in from the beginning.The book opens with underground comics artist Robert McGee and his family having their car break down in Missing Mile, North Carolina.
Please ignore the cheesy title and crappy back cover descriptions.
This is less a horror novel than a love/adventure story — in fact, I would say that the "horror" elements are the weakest part of the story (thank goodness they're only really heavy in one chapter towards the end).
Brite's lush descriptive prose is enticing (an outdoor market in New Orleans is bursting with such fantastic color and scent it makes the mouth water) and she's created some fantastic characters, most notably in Trevor.
4.5 stars. A great book, phenomenal writing, satisfying story.
The house on Violin Road has taken three victims, but it wants more blood.And so it shall be drawn.He needn't have worried about accidentally coming about the Devil's Tramping Ground, he realized.The Devil's Tramping Ground had come to him.Billy Martin*'s highly psychological, atmospheric book stole two days from me.I'd heard of his work for years and been told "Oh my God, you'll love it!".
Sadly, this book did not make me feel the same things Lost Souls did.Something was missing, and I do not quite know why. The story was gripping and utterly creative, the characters broken and bent, the prose as flawless as always. Brite has a way of telling stories that has me spiraling down into a writers-depression with every word I read, and still - the book felt incomplete.
The main problem with Brite is that her work always falls short of expectations. She has a lot of attitude but doesn't go anywhere worthwhile with it, and has never shown the discipline or brilliance to be a good writer.
Quite interesting themes, story, characters, and imagery but wasn't great
forever grateful for the introduction to Charlie Parker.a beautifully dark delve into what it means to be an artist.plus, easy to read.
The part that focused on the house, the haunting and the murders was still interesting; but I think I outgrew the romance between Trevor and Zach.
I may have found their alienated, androgynous demeanors titillating and exciting 25 years ago, but today I just wanted to give them a sandwich and a cup of soup.The story starts in 1972 when “underground” cartoonist Bobby McGee rolls into Missing Mile, North Carolina with family in tow.
It's an unlikely love story with a smattering of the supernatural, much of which is actually drug-induced hallucination, and an improbably happy ending that comes out of romance novels more than a horror novelBut I wished everyone well in this book.
Although some early chapters are in New Orleans, the novel takes place mostly in MIssing Mile, North Carolina, a setting Brite also used in Lost Souls.
(Brite comes up with excellent place names.) The murderer drugged but did not kill his older son, Trevor.
I didn't think that moment worthy of Ms. Brite, until the other faucet started gushing semen.
She's got herself a name for writing vampire fiction in spite of only ever writing one vampire novel, her first, Lost Souls.
I read Lost Souls as a Penguin proof copy and knew then that it would become a dark classic of the vampire genre.
Drawing Blood, in spite of the name, is not a vampire novel however.
It tells a story which is about running away but also about finding yourself.
A child at heart, still riding the highs of dugs and parties, he's also running from his own future, hiding from the dangers of growing up.
If anything I fell for the other characters in P.Z.B.’s return to Missing Mile, I feel for Kinsey and Terry and the shells of Ghost and Steve because they represent the real world.
The supporting characters of Drawing Blood (and to some extent Lost Souls) represent real life.
They come to represent the boring, bitter, repetitive world where the magic really doesn’t exist, where the ghosts of my past do not come to haunt me where life isn’t as dark as I want it to be.
The side ones are well rounded and believable; the two main ones just adorable: their love grows quickly but convincingly and you feel for them before you know it.There are some sex scenes and they are explicit, graphic, intense: I do not know how a woman could write this well about gay male sex but her sex scenes are perhaps the best parts of the whole novel.The ending is satisfying, it leaves no loose threads and allows one to think "and they lived happily ever after", which is a very good thing.just a short poisonous comment: one of the two main heroes is bisexual...
This was good, but oh so weird.The first 40% were pretty boring, especially since the two MCs didn't even meet until that mark.
I absolutely LOVED the connection between Zach and Trevor.
I also would've preferred this book if it wasn't written in so many people's POVs, because I already don't really like when books aren't written in only one POV, but I got used to reading about both MCs POCs in most books...
I got KIND OF scared at around 60%, but that's probably mostly because I was reading at night in complete darkness...Anyways, I did like this book even though the plot didn't really seem to go anywhere..
It was a typical Poppy Z Brite novel.
I was not satisfied at all with the few short incidents that could actually be considered the horror aspect in this novel.
It took FOREVER to get to the climax of the story, where they enter Birdland, and it was brief and not really satisfying...however I was full up on gay sex before I even reached the second half of the book.However, I should mention that unlike Lost Souls I actually genuinely liked Zack and Trevor.
I felt really sorry for Eddy, but then Brite is never very kind to the sparse females in her books.
Although she trips up in her short story collection, "Wormwood," and can veer into ridiculousness with her overlong and sometimes florid descriptive style, underneath the layers of lace and eyeliner, her longer works of nonfiction have legitimately interesting characters and original plots.
Drawing Blood is particularly good, as Brite revists the tiny, twisted town of Missing Mile, North Carolina.
Drawing Blood is, underneath it all, a love story, and horror fans might be surprised at its sudden veer into romance in the middle, but Brite treats the developing affection between her two main characters with delicacy and realism, and it never feels exploitative or gratuitous.
(Side note: If you haven't read BLACKWATER yet, I urge you to do so ASAP, and I hope you'll consider picking up the audiobook version, too.) To put it simply, Godfrey's narration is superb.
For me, it's the story, not the plot, that is important.)Before listening to this audiobook, I'd only read one of Poppy Z.
The story involves two young men, Trevor McGee (or Trevor Black) and Zachary Bosch, and details the events that lead them to meet, and subsequently fall in love, in Missing Mile, NC.

