https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953260.Disney_after_Dark
When you look at Disney, there is so much potential for a good story, and the back to this book seemed to capture that potential.
There was very few Disney characters in the book, and the one that it focused on (Maleficent) was not described property.
especially in a kid's book about Disney.The writing style -I thought that Pearson, being the author of a variety of book, would at least have a good writing style...
I'm glad I read it, now I won't have to wonder about the book every time I see it, but I really didn't like it.
Soo...I guess if we're gonna bump into each other tonight in our dreams, we might want to decide when we're all going to sleep. Everyone has a 9 p.m. bedtime, right? Wait, what? You get to stay up til 10? No fair! 2.5 stars. While I was reading Disney After Dark, I kept comparing it in my head to a starter version of Ready Player One. Unfortunately, I kept wishing for this book to become as epic as RPO and it never quite got there. The strange thing is, I can't find anything wrong with DaD (hah
While I was reading Disney After Dark, I kept comparing it in my head to a starter version of Ready Player One. Unfortunately, I kept wishing for this book to become as epic as RPO and it never quite got there.
Yet, while there was nothing wrong, I couldn't seem to find much that was right either.
And by right, I mean in a "wow, we just hit that good point of the book" type of way.
I was just mildly interested in what would happen next.
There just wasn't enough to make me want to find out what happens next.
Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.comFive young teens living in Florida get the opportunity of a lifetime--they're each going to be turned into a DHI, or a Disney Host Interactive, to guide visitors throughout the park.
What at first seems like a fantastical dream soon turns to reality, when the attractions at the Park begin coming to life when the DHIs cross over into the Magic Kingdom while sleeping.
Even if you're not a frequent visitor of Disney World, this is one book that will bring the magic--both good and bad--to very realistic life.
Okay, when I learned about what it was about, I thought that it would be REALLY, REALLY good. I just thought the idea was clever (it's about Disney characters gone bad at night in the park). But then I read it, and I realized I just didn't like the characters, or the way it was written...sorry. But I do think it's a worthwhile read.
My sister had read it before me and said she really liked it.
It was a little confusing at first because I didn't know what was going on, but It got a lot better!I like how they based it at Disney World.
It made me remember when I went to Disney World the year before.
All the rides, and the cool things that are there in real life and the book.
The author really did a great job with it.I hope to be able to add it to my library so I can read it whenever I want!It's a reall cool Book!
For among that simple story structure is a quite clever premise easily discounted as childish.Written for young adults, it unashamedly panders to fans of Disney Parks, most specifically THE MAGIC KINGDOM.
If that Disney fan has expanded their horizons into backstage stories and the nuts and bolts of running the theme park, this book will be a great guilty pleasure, even for adults.Author RIDLEY PEARSON weaves a simple story of good and evil - simple only to offset some complicated science fiction elements that permeate.
So much so, that story elements may come to you the next time you visit Disney's Magic Kingdom.
The premise of the book sounded exciting enough.
Plus, the author seemed to like to throw in references to attractions or locations in the park (perhaps just to geek people out).Next, some very very weird stuff happens.
Also, we are asked to accept that anything and everything that goes wrong at the park is just a cover up.Finally, the worst part was the character development.
Some characters were thrown in just for the sake of having them there.
They added nothing, and I didn't really care if anything happened to them.Great, intriguing premise, but poorly executed.
Like others that I saw when I read the flap of this book I thought this was the coolest idea for a book.
But like all good books it's how the idea is taken and written and then transformed.
And at times I thought this kids were in 4th grade only to find out they are wandering around Orlando by themselves.
They also are pretty stupid kids.
Also why is that every book that the kids have the parents are three steps from being brain dead?
There's more that I could go on and on about but really I wanted to like this book but just couldn't.
But when the kids fall asleep, they can actually become those same holograms and interact with the park.There’s a bit of a mystery to decode that the late Walt Disney left clues to all over the park à la The Da Vinci Code.A bunch of the animatronics in the park come to life, including the pirates and those creepy It’s a Small World dolls.And the main villain is the Mistress of All Evil herself, Maleficent.I really enjoyed this book and I look forward to the next installments of the series.
You meet Finn and 4 other Orlando teenagers who have been chosen to become DHI's, which are holographic images that are trained to be Magic Kingdom park guides.
However, Finn and his friends start waking up in the middle of the night as their DHI's, in the Magic Kingdom park.
Finn and the others must find what Maleficent is after and stop her and the other Overtakers before it's too late.
Some of the more famous Magic Kingdom rides are spotlighted in this adventurous book - Splash Mountain, it's a small world!, Tom Sawyer's Island, The Haunted Mansion and even Cinderella's Castle makes an appearance!
A group of kids who are being used as the models for holographic hosts at Walt Disney World discover that they are the only ones who can stop the Disney villains from taking over.
I liked the kids, and the action, and the inside look at the Magic Kingdom.
Pearson clearly had an all access pass, and knew about all the service tunnels and every twist and turn of the rides.
I'm curious to see where the kids go next.
I did think that the whole, "We're kinda here but not really, because we're kinda holograms" was unnecessary, and didn't add much other than distraction.
Looking at the not so stellar reviews of Disney After Dark, I agree with some of the comments - like the characters were under developed.
All in all, I found the book fast paced, the dialogue current as far as preteen kids (or at least the respectful, well-behaved ones) go nowadays, and the characters interesting enough to want to know more about them (I'm definitely interested how Charlene is developed because she seemed like the weakest link of the bunch).
I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
“There's a fine line between imagination and reality. An inventor dreams something up, and pretty soon, it's there on the table before him. A science-fiction writer envisions another world, and then some space probe finds it. If you believe in something strongly enough, I think you can make it happen.”
The Kingdom Keepers-The Forgotten Harry PotterOverall Rating: Wow I didn’t expect it to be this good Looking for a new fantasy book to read?
It’s called  The Kingdom Keepers Also know as Kingdom Keepers: Disney After Dark, this book is written by Ridly Pearson.
When Finn and the other kids go to bed for the night , they wake up in Disney Land after dark in the form of holograms.
But it’s entertaining oddly enough telling a epic fantasy in a story set in a world that kids can completely relate to.
It is often difficult to find good, interesting books for young boys, but this is one.
I imagine boys would get caught up in the characters of these boys (3 of the DHIs are boys) and project themselves into the book.
The fact that Kingdom Keepers is set in Disney World in Florida will make this story more appealing to our students.
Most have been to the Magic Kingdom and are familiar with the attractions mentioned in the book.
As the author tells of the teens walking through Tomorrowland to go to Space Mountain or heading to Frontierland, they will be able to picture it all in their minds.
The main struggle in this book is the Keepers trying to stop the Disney villain, Maleficent.
Btw, She's going dooooooown!The ending was a very well written and made me snatch the second book straight away(No seriously, I was begging!).
I liked the ending because, 1.) it was well written, 2.) everybody lived, 3.) I'm going to stop listing because otherwise this will get too long.I recommend this for kids between 7-15, Disney fans, maybe even adults!!!
I've never been a huge fan of Disney, even when I was a little kid I thought a lot of it was hokey, but I'm really glad to see that Disney is able to break out of its cutesy shell in the form of a fantastic, mysterious book series more appropriate for young adults. :)
So to have a book actually set in the parks, about people my own age going into the parks at night and having adventures?
I'm giving this 3 stars, but I feel like that 3rd star is just held there by nostalgia.This review is so full of complaints, which is sad, but it does have its good parts.
It could have been amazing and wonderful things could have been done with the idea of Walt Disney World after dark, fighting the bad characters who are actually real.
I had originally not planned on reading this book. Had I not received this book for Christmas of I think 2011, I would have missed out on a good deal.I absolutely adore this book. I haven't read it a while, so I'm writing this review by memory.This is the beginning of a series, which grows darker and darker. (view spoiler)[ By the end of the book, lives are taken and the magic becomes more sinister and black. (hide spoiler)]I can't really think of anything bad about this book, other than how the
I had originally not planned on reading this book.
Had I not received this book for Christmas of I think 2011, I would have missed out on a good deal.I absolutely adore this book.
I haven't read it a while, so I'm writing this review by memory.This is the beginning of a series, which grows darker and darker.
(view spoiler)[ By the end of the book, lives are taken and the magic becomes more sinister and black.
(hide spoiler)]I can't really think of anything bad about this book, other than how the characters are sort of flat.
However, the characters grow in personality and gain more depth as the series continues.
I loved it! It drew me in and captivated me, I loved the characters and the setting! I never once put it down, I love that this book gets right to the point instead of droning on and on..... It is defiantly a series I would recommend.
Disney fan loving this Disney book. Love the behind the scenes action. I keep going back for more!
i’m not going to write off any of the characters as static until a few books in.
i only wish readers got to see the DHIs bond more than just the ‘we all shared the same traumatic experience, we’re now together for life’ bond.the plot was pretty well done and allowed the book to read very fast.
i can’t say that i didn’t like it but it was something you would find in a younger teen book.
all in all, this was a pretty good story and i’m definitely going to continue with the rest of the series.
Hired by Disney to be the basis of holographic guides for the parks, Finn and his friends discover that the process entailed comes with a strange side effect - they show up in the park as holograms when they go to sleep at night.
They then learn that the five of them were chosen for a special mission to save the parks from the "Overtakers" who are basically the villains of Disney come to life.
I often read books for our K-8 school library and I'll likely recommend this one to the librarian if she doesn't already have the series.
It was a cute read and appropriate for grades 5-8.
I *HEART* Disney and believe it to be one of the places I'd love to work at one of these days once I am done burning everything that is excess in my life to the ground.
I know...I worked on them before.Adding a fantasy element to the situation of the parks at night and adding villainy and adventure makes this read even more entertaining.
I will also admit this book is rated at its highest because it has been a LONG TIME since I read a young adult fantasy that isn't on the said aforementioned themes.
However things aren’t as they seem when Finn wakes up in a dream or at least he thinks it’s a dream in Disney confronted by Wayne.
I also really liked the way the overlord who’s our bad guy plays out in the story.I picked up Disney after Dark as a kindle freebie a while back with the intention of starting it right away but never seemed to get around to it.
My hubby is the Disney world nut so when he saw the book on his kindle he had to read it and it’s all I’ve heard about for months.
This book had great potential, but I didn't see that potential exploited.
I love the concept, and even the story was decent, but too many things were incongruent, too many things did not make sense.First of all, I could not stand how ignorant the main character seemed at times.
And another thing, how is Malificent alive?
Another thing, at the begining we see a bunch of characters: Goofy, Chip and Dale, Tigger.
There were too many little things that bugged me for me to truly enjoy the book.
I've heard about this series in the past, and leading up to our trip to Walt Disney World last month inspired me to finally pick them up.I think the premise of these books is actually pretty interesting: A group of teenagers hired by Disney to be DHIs (Disney Host Interactives), life-like digital hologram versions of themselves who guide guests on tours through the Magic Kingdom, discover that things are not all a-okay at the World when they find themselves transferring to their digital counterparts after they fall asleep.
When middle school kids complain that they do not like to read, or that books are too hard to read, I wouldn't blame them if they were talking about this book.
As a brief illustration of how stupid this book was, behold this magnificent passage: "Her hair was the color of laundry lint.
Her eyelashes were so pale they were almost invisible, which left her eyelids looking like weird flesh-colored cups that blinked down over her eyes like a bird's." "Like a bird's"?
flesh-colored cups?
If you are in middle school, I beg of you, read the Penderwicks or the Melendy books or something that will not discourage you from reading forever.
Who wouldn’t want to read a story about kids wandering around Disney World late at night?
The writing is really jumpy, especially in the first half of the book.
The dialogue is the same way, especially between Wayne, the park keeper who brings the kids together, and Finn, the main character.
Creepy little things…I always knew they were plotting something, and this book only confirms that.
I doubt I’ll pick up the next book, but Disney After Dark wasn’t as horrible as I believed it to be at page 42.
A fun read if you're a big Disney fan and can tolerate sloppy writing.
Part of me wants to really like this guy for writing a cool story and the other part of me wants to punch him in the kidneys for writing a book that I want to write.
I'm writing a book and need access to all the secret tunnels" and they say "Right this way, madam" - just like Jeeves and I'm in.
Now I'm finished and man, this book was bad.
It's such a shame -the idea of the characters in Disneyland coming alive after dark is something that speaks to me.
He describes her as having a raspy voice and making everything around her freezing cold.
