https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527862.The_Acid_House
Holy shit, how could I have forgotten to add this to my list already, this collection of breakneck vileness, this wretchedness you wrench your head away from in shame that it happens to be so gripping and so funny.
Irvine Welsh became something of a parody of himself later on, wee Scots druggy mouthy baldie that he is, but let that not take anything away from his magnificent trilogy of Trainspotting, Acid House and Maribou Stork Nightmares.
In my letter, I'd asked him if he actually listened to techno music, since all his characters did and it was inconceivable to me at the time (I was 18) that anyone -- especially a writer who'd written something I liked -- would do this (later on in that trip I realized that nearly everyone on that side of the Atlantic listened to techno music, and that in fact they PLAYED IT on the RADIO).
Somewhat disappointingly, his letter was not written in an incomprehensible Scottish dialect, and in fact was easy to read.Anyway, I remember really being crazy about "A Smart Cunt," and the rest of this not being much to write home about, but having its moments.
Like a lot of Welsh's work, the language and the settings capture something really special which is why I've decided to bump it up from 3 stars to 4 stars as 3 would be unjustifiable.
I felt waves of nostalgia when reading certain reference points which I've only come to appreciate when penning this review (it's got a very late '80s feel).
I appreciate that Welsh is at home when writing about junkies and dropouts, but the occasional surprise would have done this collection some favours.That negative I've pointed is not that significant.
The Acid House is a collection of short stories, with each story featuring a new set of characters and scenarios.
it's an Irvine Welsh book!Here's one passage I really enjoyed; There's a story in which in only one day, Boab is kicked out of the football team, his parents' house, his job and his girlfriend's life.
After he's arrested and beaten up, he meets God in a pub, who turns him into a bluebottle.Here goes God's line, written of course in the characteristic scottish dialect: 'That cunt Nietzsche wis wide ay the mark whin he said I wis deid,' God tells him.
My favorites here are a "The Granton Star Cause," an even more acrid retelling of The Metamorphosis, "Eurotrash," which remains to be savored like a putrid aftertaste of something that goes down delectable but is poisonous at the core.
The latter one is a retelling, I think of a minor character's viewpoint from Trainspotting, but it completely stands on its own - and is at base a devastating chronicle of ineptitude and depravity and loneliness that makes you feel for the character, not just go along for the dark and vicarious thrills.
I'm hooked (or maybe that is what Welsh intended).
The Acid House is a hit and miss short story collection.
Sadly, the other half can be boring, pointless and at some points fucked up, even for Irvine Welsh.
Overall, I'd say this book is definitely a must for people already hooked on Welsh's writings.
Read this book, definitely, but once you're used to Irvine Welsh and know what to expect.
Otherwise, this may just seem to be a big flubbery mess with it's obvious brilliance scattered about, when really, it's a great, quirky collection of some very odd stories.Highlights: The Granton Star Cause, The Acid House, Vat '96, The Last Resort on the Adriatic, Snuff
In one a guy drops acid and ends up switching bodies with a baby (or thinking he did, I can't remember).
The baby with his adult brain gets off on breast feeding and watching his parents have sex.
The Adult with the baby brain ends up in the hospital drooling all over himself.
The second story that really stuck out for me was about a guy who turned into a fly.
I won't tell you how it ends.So yeah it was a funny book.
The guy who plays spud in Trainspotting plays the guy in this who trades bodies with the baby.
I was disappointed when I cracked this open to find that it was a collection of short stories.
I'm not a massive fan of short stories.
They tend to be dull and have this unfinishedness about them.
This winds me up massively!(Big Disney fan!).
There is alot of Scottish dialect here which can be hard to read but is amazing to try and read out loud, in my terrible Scottish accent....which tends to drift into Scouse and Welsh.
I wouldn't read this again, but if you liked Trainspotting, don't mind short stories and have a fondness for the word cunt.
The short stories range from the realistic to the ridiculous, employing a wide, albeit largely the same, cast of downtrodden, drug addicts.
See: Ellis, Palahniuk.But I don't mean to rant, it's not Welsh's fault, in fact he sums up a political thesis of sorts in the short story Smart Cunt: "I'm thinking, what can I do, really do for the emancipation of working people in this country, shat on by the rich, tied into political inaction...
The answer is a resounding fuck all...
Welsh also takes a number of risks, moving away from stories narrated by junkies and pimps and focusing on other troubled members of society (an old man missing his wife, a movie-fanatic loner), although the junky stories are there too, most notably the novella at the end.
A few stories veer toward the surreal (a man turns into a fly, the soul of a baby and a junky switch) and these stories are quite funny and surprisingly work as well.
Definitely Welsh moving outside of his comfort level to create some surprisingly touching stories, while also providing a dose of the expected wit, anger, and craziness of his writing.
I had watched trainspotting as a teenager and had prematurly assumed that Irvine Welsh was a genius.
I picked up Acid House and was quickly discouraged.
His characterization was there, and better than what I witnessed in the films.
The stories were bland, shocking and disqusting, but still bland.
I would have given it one star except for a feeling I get, that the stories weren't written for me.
I feel like if I lived my life in some dusty Scottish town, then the stories would be more relatable, and then prehaps his works would be absolute genius.
Belting banter from the master of the smack house jive. Short stories, in my shallow experience, are all inept foreplay and frustrating fizzle. However, Mr Welsh' are based on the heroin binary code which has a pronounced craven start, an abrupt finish and a delicious intermezzo. The novella included here, 'A Smart Cunt', is worth the entry price alone.
literary gold. Every one of these short stories are a work of genius. My favourite being the tale of coco brice. whilst out of his tree on drugs, his mind, and the mind of a new born baby are swapped over, turning coco into a slobbering idiot, and the baby into a dirty wee man.
A whole mess of fairly standard-issue Irvine Welsh stories which, 3 years later, have not really stuck with me. Never boring, however.
La edición y la traducción de anagrama es pésima, tal vez en el idioma original, todos los cuentos y los diálogos tendrían un mayor sentido, sin embargo, se pueden rescatar algunos.
This is literally one of the worse books I have ever read. It is a collection of short stories although some of the characters are the same and they all seem to be vaguely connected. Every other word is a swear word and it adds nothing to the story. I struggled to see how anyone could enjoy these stories. I was very disappointed as although I have not read Trainspotting, I have heard very good things about it.
I think this is a fantastic intro to Irvine Welsh's writing style, especially for getting used to the Scotts English dialogue. It's not as overwhelming as I found Trainspotting to be, but I feel like after reading this, Trainspotting will be much more enjoyable and easier to understand.I've also been on a short story kick, and this was perfect. The stories were short, brutal, and captivating.

Not everything is set in the reality we know.I was unsurprised to find the same vice-filled characters I expect from Welsh after reading Trainspotting.
My opinion of the collection was tepid until I reached the novella at the end, titled "A Smart Cunt." A few Trainspotting characters (most memorably, Spud) appear as peripheral characters in this piece.For the novella, our narrator is Brian, a character that has his vices, yes, and does reprehensible things, but we get inside his head and see his emotions(yes, emotions!) more than the other characters.
Initially, he seems to be the same apathetic substance abuser we would expect, but I was really able to see a clearer character arc then in the other stories or in Trainspotting.
I realised two stories into this that I had already read it as a teenager, but I'd forgotten almost everything that happened in the stories, so it wasn't a great loss.In true Irvine Welsh fashion, everything about this collection is vile, dark, disturbing and vomit-inducing.
It really is spit your dinner out material, but it grips you unbelievably hard.Welsh explores a lot of different themes and styles here, it's a good expression of his various literary abilities.
There were some particularly insane sections that did make me wonder for a while what actually goes on in that baldy head of his, but his style is intriguing more than anything else.His characters are, as always, flawed and vicious, but mostly wonderful.
I'm becoming more and more convinced that Welsh created himself out of the ashes of some weird, drug-driven orgy between the guys from "A Clockwork Orange" and the great satirist tradition that begins somewhere in post-Ice Age Europe with recent high points being Monty Python and Tobias Funke and whose end, despite the best efforts of many, is hopefully in the far-flung future.All these stories collected in this collection are good, but the few that really stand out make it worth reading all of them.
The title story is just outstanding: a lightning strike switches the soul of acid-tripping Coco Bryce with a newborn baby.
The Acid House was published less than a year after Welsh's dynamic debut Trainspotting, and it possesses the same energy and freshness.
My favourite stories in this collection are: 'Eurotrash', 'The Last Resort on the Adriatic'(Surprisingly moving, demonstrating the sheer class of variety on offer in this collection), 'The House of John Deaf', 'Snowman Building Parts for Rico the Squirrel' and the superb novella 'A Smart Cunt'.
Welsh has a lot on offer here in these experimental stories.
Examples of this can be seen with 'Sexual Disaster Quartet', 'Across the Hall' and 'Snowman Building Parts for Rico the Squirrel'.
Die totale Abkehr von Liebe und Menschlichkeit, dies zeichnet viele Texte von Irvine Welsh aus.
Der Autor versteht es wie kein anderer, die Abgründe und dunklen Stellen der Gesellschaft auf den Menschen zu übertragen und ohne grosse Übertreibung darzustellen.
In "Acid House" treibt er dies auf die Spitze, in dem er seine Figuren auf wenigen Seiten in Kurzgeschichten stolpern, fallen und verenden lässt.
Gerade die Titelgebende Geschichte am Ende des Bandes ist einfach nur Fantasie auf Drogen.
Die Sprache funktioniert als Übersetzung ins Deutsche nicht so gut wie im Original, hier fehlt das Spiel mit den korrekten Dialekten.
Welsh's short stories in this collection were, as in most collections, hit or miss.
I really enjoyed Snuff, The Acid House, and Eurotrash.
I was also really impressed with the tone and dialect Welsh crafts in the collection's longest piece, a novella of 112 pages revolving around the stumblings of Brian, a wallowing, substance-abusing, well-meaning twenty-something.
The phonetic Scots in most of the stories was often exhausting though and, as was the case with Marabou Stork Nightmares, the sheer nastiness of some of the characters and scenes definitely docked this one a star.
Exposing Glasgow's underbelly for sure -- is there no "normal" Glaswegian??
A bit uneven at times, as any collection will be. One of the stories contained one of the most vile tableaus I've ever read and now it is burned into my memory. I really enjoyed the novella at the end. Just a few weeks in the life of a smackhead, the goings-on and hangers-on. All in all a pretty interesting portrait of a point in time of Scotland's fringey youngsters.
wow - another blast from the past (The 90's) and another I've forgotten to include on my read list. A collection of short, not entirely sweet stories by Irvine Welsh... Most memorable is the story about the lad who turns into fly.....
Just like every collection of short stories, this is hit or miss. It's definitely Irvine Welsh though. So expect darkly hilarious stories with heartbreaking endings, as well as his phonetic spellings of dialogue in a thick Scottish accent.
The first book I read in getting back into books. I didn't know there was an author anywhere that knew how to speak to me until I read this book. Bunch of short stories. Some are pretty brutal.
The stories are written in a crazy-ass dialect, a little hard at first, but by the end you kinda feel like you've learned a new language. Irvine Welsh can write some pretty good short stories.
Some of the stories are good some are ok. The last novella was the best of the bunch, but nothing was really overwhelming.
