https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106459.Hope_Against_Hope
It goes from a huddled poetry circle in the great cities out to exile then a return, then a desperate hope for survival again.If Osip Mandelstam's history is of a great poet who died for his writing, then Nadezhda Mandelstam's story is of a great memoirist who had the further difficulty of surviving during such a regime.
کتابی است به شدت خواندنی که در آن هم از شعر و ادبیات سخن رفته، هم از تاریخ و سیاست و فرهنگ - همه ذیل یک زندگی نامه ی شخصی.
اصلا نباید فکر کرد که با خاطراتی صرفا شخصی روبروئیم.
شیوه ی ورود نادژدا به مطلب و حاشیه رفتن هایش هم بسی خواندنی است.
چنانکه خود نادزدا گفته او یک "شاهد"ه و تبعا این کتاب یک شهادت نامهحاشیه: خیلی عجیبه که روی جلد هیچ اشاره ای به این مطلب نیست که با خاطرات بک فرد روبروئیم.
من که بشخصه فکر می کردم کسی در مورد وضعیت روشنفکران اثری نوشته.
But the ones that did survive from the Soviet Union, not just HOPE AGAINST HOPE but works by Ginzburg, Brodsky, and Solzhenitsyn, are testaments of the human spirit of the same order as the those written by witnesses to the Holocaust.But the significance of HOPE AGAINST HOPE is not primarily its historical account of the Stalinist system, but its depiction of cosmic injustice and the possibility--even in the worst circumstances--for some kind of ultimate triumph of truth and integrity and decency and love.I doubt that a person picking up this book on a whim will read it through, unless, without knowing it, they have been preparing themselves for years to understand what Osip and Nadezhda have to tell us about ourselves and about the human potential for choosing truth and acting with moral courage.
obtained a copy of the Divine Comedy in small format and always had it with him in his pocket, just in case he was arrested not at home but in the street.""And after his death--or even before it, perhaps--he lived on in camp legend as a demented old man of seventy who had once written poetry in the outside world and was therefore nicknamed The Poet.
And another old man--or was it the same one?--lived in the transit camp of Vtoraya Rechka, waiting to be shipped to Kolyma, and was thought by many people to be Osip Mandelstam--which, for all I know, he may have been.
Unlike many wives of famous husbands who tend to emphasize that their husbands would've been nothing without their love and support (or their vanity let's call a spade a spade), Nadezhda Mandelstam wrote an absolutely heartbreaking and devastating chronicle of her husband's life which she happened to share as a fellow traveller and devoted supporter, not as a glamorous muse.
Her immense talent of a storyteller makes her memoirs a lot more than just memories of Mandelstam and their life.
Nadezhda Mandelstam tells the story of the whole generation, utterly lost and deliberately unheard in the noise of time; the story in which her husband is one of many, and yet unique.
His fingers are fat as grubs And the words, final as lead weights, fall from his lips, His cockroach whiskers leer And his boot tops gleam.
Hope Against Hope is one of the great witness books of the last century.
I've been meaning to turn to it for years, intrigued by the literary friendship between the two great Russian poets, Mandelstam and Anna Akhmatova, as recounted in Roberta Reeder's biography on Akmatova.
Well, I was not disappointed, since Mandelstam's wife, Nadezhda, was a great writer herself.
Nothing binds people together more than complicity in the same crime: the more people could be implicated and compromised, the more traitors, informants and police spies there were, the greater would be the number of people supporting the regime and longing for it to last thousands of years.”As Mandelstam recounts her husband’s struggles to maintain his integrity, to find a way to survive, to bear witness in poems his wife would memorize in case her efforts to preserve his manuscripts, she reveals a truth that the deep evil can and will be defeated but only at a very human and very high cost.

Moved up on the "to reread queue", perhaps right after Proust.
So in that context I admit that I became impatient from time to time as Nadia reports events as shocking to her at the time, when they seem, to me, to express the normal state of things, as in "Well, of course, what's so shocking about any of that?" A response that makes me think that one of most important aspects of her memoir is its record of her response, the response of her husband, and the responses of various Soviets of her acquaintance as they were discovering and becoming familiar with, adjusting to Stalin's regime as it "matured," so to speak, which, after all, didn't announce its program of terror to the public in advance or delineate its objectives, sources and methods or schedule of activities.
Ressenya completa ací: http://www.luckybuke.com/2017/03/cont...Com puc ressenyar un llibre que m'ha sobrepassat en tots els sentits?
L'autora ens conta la vida amb el seu marit, el poeta Òssip Mandelstam, durant els anys trenta a la Unió Soviètica.
Una ment lucidíssima ens narra les calamitats i les horrors que es sofrien aleshores (concretament ens parla de la repressió i mort a la intel·lectualitat).
Una història crua, obscura, claustrofòbica, però plena de reflexions importantíssimes i esperança.Un llibre difícil, que ha suposat tot un repte personal a aquest any literari meu, que per al meu gust havia començat massa light.
As someone somewhere else has said, this is probably the finest work of dissident writing about the USSR done, Solzhenitsyn included.
Sure, it wanders in time and sometimes gets into details about Russian schools of writing that I was less interested in, but that's a thing with Russians and Russian literature (esp the part about the structure).
There are times when she lapses into bitterness and a little self-indulgence--so and so was helped by this or that person at great personal risk and couldn't be bothered, later, to go to his wife's funeral.
This book should be the opposite of uplifting. It should leave one devastated and hopeless, yet mysteriously it has the opposite effect. I would encouraged anyone going through difficult times to read it. I would pretty much encourage anyone to read it. See if I throw the term "life changing experience" around lightly.Oh, you will also learn tun about poetry and history.Your image, tormenting and elusive,I could not touch in the mist.“God!” I said by mistake,never thinking to say that myself.God’s name like a gigantic birdflew out from my breast.Before me thick mist swarms,behind me stands an empty cage.
By examining the rise of totalitarianism in Russia, this book answers the question of how a whole society can be controlled and manipulated into blindly accepting the power of their leaders, no matter how corrupt they may be. This book is incredible; a highly recommended, life-changing read.
ما زندگی میکنیم بیآنکه خاک را زیر پای خود احساس کنیمآنچه میگوییم ده گام دورتر شنیده نمیشودو زمانی که میخواهیم دهنهایمان را نیمهباز کنیمآن ایلیاتی کوهنشین کرملین بازمان میداردانگشتان ستبر چونان کرمهای لزجفرامین لازمالاجرا به وزن چهل پوندپاکت چرمیاش چون گوسالههای براقو چشمان سوسکیِ به خنده نشستهاشگرداگردش جماعتی رئیس گردنباریکجان نثاریشان ملعبهی دستشزوزه میکشند، میومیو میکنند و نالهاو یکه و تنها سیخونک میزند و بسبا انگشتان یا با عربدههایش.شعر فوق را اوسیپ ماندلشتام در وصف استالین سروده و در حضور
نادژدا در قسمت‌های مختلف کتاب به توصیف شرایط زندگی مردم عادی و روشنفکران در ادوار مختلف حکومت شوروی (دوران پس از انقلاب، عصر استالین و عصر خروشچف) می‌پردازد.
دغدغه‌ی نادژدا فراتر از روشنفکران است و البته توصیفات وی در باب روشنفکران هم بیشتر محدود به نویسندگان ادبی و شاعرانی است که از دور‌ یا نزدیک با آن‌ها در ارتباط بوده است؛ این‌که عنوان روشنفکر شامل حال چه کسانی می‌شود هم مساله‌ی دیگری است.چرا 4 ستاره ؟ بخش‌هایی از کتاب که به توصیف سبک شعر ماندلشتام در دوران مختلف و مقایسه آن با دیگر شاعران معاصر وی اختصاص یافته، چندان علاقه من نادان به شعر و ادبیات را بر‌نمی‌انگیخت و آن‌ها را صرفا برای یافتن اشاراتی به اوضاع سیاسی و اجتماعی می‌خواندم.
This is in many ways an extraordinary book and fully deserving of its prominent place in the canon of 20th century literature on Stalinism, and totalitarianism more generally. While there are parts, particularly about Osip Mandelstam’s literary tastes, which are rather impenetrable for those without a strong grounding in Russian literature, I have not come across as evocative an account of how pervasive and all-consuming the climate of fear was amongst all Soviet citizens in the 1930s.
Un libro que reflexiona y se cuestiona sobre el significado de lo humano con una gran lucidez en un momento histórico en el que en Rusia, la barbarie y el horror se respiraba a cada paso. Nadiezhda Mandelstam, viuda del poeta Ósip Mandelstam, escribe estas memorias recordando su vida junto a su marido, el cual morirá en la Gulag. Una historia de amor tejida entre más sombras que luces, pero que vive y respira esperanza por doquier. Muy recomendable.
Osip Mandelstam was one of the four great poets of 20th century Russia.
So piece by piece I found my way to this book, the memoir of his wife and widow, Nadezhda, or Nadia -- whose name means hope.
Though Nadia did other things, and is important in other ways, this is a memoir of love, and of art, and of endurance, centered around the persecution by the Stalinist machinery of Osip.
There were many like this -- millions -- but this book is about the one man, and the one woman who loved him.
Nadia writes: "Anticipating his arrest M.
He is considered one of the four great poets of twentieth century Russia: Boris Pasternak, Anna Akhmatova, and Marina Tsvetaeva are the others (I think an argument could be made for Andrei Blok).
"Hope Against Hope" narrates the Mandelstams' perilous voyage through the punitive bureaucracy of Stalinist Russia: from Moscow to prison to the south and, then, for the poet, to the prison camp where he died.
"Hope Against Hope" is tragic; Mandelstam was extraordinarily gifted but weak, and it was a time when being weak led to death (other things did, too, and let us not forget his courage).
زندگی نامه ای بسیار خواندنی ،نوشته نادژدا همسر شاعر روس اوسیپ ماندلشتام کتاب را نباید صرفا زندگی نام
This is a stunning memoir, and probably the book that best captures the sinister surrealism of the Stalinist era in the Soviet Union. Nadezhda Mandelstam, wife of the blacklisted poet Osip Mandelstam, describes their lives in the four years between when Osip ran afoul of Stalin and when he was finally sent to a labor camp (where he subsequently died). Her writing is beautiful and tragic, a paean of love to her lost spouse and a blistering critique of tyranny. If I could give this more than five stars, I would.
Estic entre les tres o quatre estrelles perquè, malgrat ser força irregular, reiteratiu i desestructurat —salts en el temps que poden arribar a fer-te perdre, detalla molt i molt bé com l'stalinisme va destruir tota una generació d'intel·lectuals mitjançant la delació, la tortura i la por. M'hi han sobrat els capítuls dedicats a l'anàlisi de la poètica de Mandelstam, però hi ha reflexions i capítols veritablement bons.
My daughter's name was inspired, in part, by this woman. This book is incredible. The author was the wife of a Russian poet killed during Stalin's regime. Her writings on living in such a bizarre political environment should be, I believe, required reading for all. She captures the crazy mindsets of the leaders, followers and everyone in between.
Introduction, by Clarence BrownTranslator's Preface--Hope against HopePostscriptAppendix:A. Notes on Persons Mentioned in the TextB. Note on Literary Movements and OrganizationsIndex
so intelligent, but simply observed. no hysteria, just life, while stalin's jailers & inquisitors hound her husband Osip Mandelstam, great Russian, anti-Soviet poet to death.
His poetry resumed in the later twenties, though he had an increasingly difficult time being published, and in 1934 was arrested for the first time.Her description of society's reaction to the Stalin terror is the best I've ever read.
Nadezhda sees the terror as a natural outcome of the post-revolutionary value change, the discarding of humanism and faith in the new scientific certainty, and not some accidental anomoly: This hankering after the idyllic twenties is the result of a legend created by people who were then in their thirties, and by their younger associates.
Del mismo modo vemos también en algunos pasajes como ella nos narra sobre el proceso de la creación poética en la que muchas veces ella estuvo presente o fue participe y su visión sobre la poesía marcada por la presencia en su vida, no sólo de su esposo sino de la también poeta Ajmatova, gran apoyo durante esta época pese a que ella misma fue perseguida y perdió a su esposo e hijo.Estas particulares memorias como ya hemos señalado nos permiten visualizar no sólo al poeta sino también al hombre angustiado por la persecución de la que era víctima y en él, a los otros tantos que como ellos, por una razón u otra era perseguidos por el régimen Stalinista.Algunas citas: "Pero el poeta no es más que un hombre, un hombre simplemente, y le debe ocurrir lo más habitual, lo más característico y corriente para el país y la época, lo que nos espera a todos y a cada uno.
It seems irrelevant and almost insulting to give this memoir a star-rating but if a five means 'amazing' then that's what I'll give it.
This book is about Osip Mandelstam, written by his widow who waited decades to tell their remarkable story to the world.
The details and quotes about Osip and his other poet friends can be long and detailed but I found her descriptions of her husband's philosophies on life fascinating.
Given it was a bit of a slog at times, I didn't manage to read it in one go, interspersing it with a lighter novel in between.
Sometimes a difficult read but worth it.
Uno de los relatos más desoladores sobre los excesos y las purgas emprendidas por la URSS en contra de los intelectuales rusos.
Además de la conmovedora crónica de la vida del poeta Osip Mandeltam, Nadiezhda entreteje una magistral narración del cima intelectual del país comunista más grande del mundo entre 1915 y 1940.
Además, del relato pueden sustraerse los hábitos literarios de su esposo, así como el estrecho vínculo que lo unió, hasta sus últimos días, con la también poeta Ana Ajmátova.
ope Against Hope is one of the great and necessary books, particularly for this time, when, like the Mandelstams, we can't imagine what is happening in our country but it is. A testimony to the power of poetry despite the power of the State, to the poet who persisted no matter what and to his wife who not only stood with him but memorized each poem that he wrote so that they would survive.
