https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563887.The_Littles
If you have littles, sit with them and read The Littles. Yes, yes. I hear your collective groan. But seriously, this entire series is just adorable and magical. Unlike Narnia and other well-known childhood books, this series actually makes you believe you have magic living in your own walls, electric outlets, and silverware drawers. Watch close, kiddos! You never know...you might see them.
When the family they live with goes on vacation, the Littles, tiny people with tails, have the adventure of a lifetime when a new family moves in for a few months.
It is written on such a great level for young readers.
4. This is an excellent book to encourage young readers.
It has a lot of great aspects, like the Littles using their brains to solve problems and doing big things even though they are a little person.
And this book is little but entertaining and a great way to encourage young readers that they too can read "big" things.
Well I rate it four stars is because there was some dying in mice fights so minus one star for that. But I really like how the Littles became friends with the cat. I also liked how they made secret passageways and look out places. I am so happy to be reading chapter books!
We read over half of this and then just got plain bored. It started out good, but I think there were too many characters too fast and it got confusing for both myself and my 5 yr old. We tried to finish it, but in the end, we thought our time could be put to better use and so picked up the next book in the Chronicles of Narnia series we were also reading. What a difference when a child is engaged. Don't think we'll finish this.
If you want to read an exciting book, this one is for you! We read it as a second grade class. Some of our favorite parts are when Lucy saves the day, when the Little's are scared of the mice, taming the cat, and many others! It is full of adventure, excitement, and has some funny parts. We definitely recommend this book to other second graders or anyone who wants to read a good book.
I love all of the Littles books. I read them when I was in grade school. I even thought that maybe the Littles lived in my basement.
Well, that was short and simple and obviously a bit childish, however, it was refreshing to read a fiction book that could be safely recommended to anyone.
This is an early chapter book and I place it as a peer amongst the Magic Tree House books.
Like those books, this is unlikely to end up being someone's favorite book of all time.
I can't vouch for the entire series as I've only read this one, but, fans of Magic Tree House will probably like this too.
I just like to read ahead in any older juvenile fiction in case of content issues.
This was a fun little read. I read it aloud to my son in about an hour. So it's quick! But it was a fun story and easy to read aloud. It has some drawings on some of the pages so that was fun for my son to follow along and look at.
Really enjoyed reading this as a read-aloud with my 6yo. The writing is good, the characters not completely one-sided, and the tension in the stories is easier to handle than in most realistic fiction.
It's super cute, but it has this weird definition of "people" that I'm a little leery of.
Basically the defining factor of what makes someone a person is the ability to speak.
This is a children's book and you read too much into these things."Bullshit.
When people say things like that they are making an assumption about how much a child understands, how much they unconsciously absorb, and how much will stick with them.
How we define humanity is a huge factor in how we treat everything and everyone.
So that makes everyone who cannot speak less than human.
I can't really remember which of "The Littles" books that I read and I would have to rely on my sister to be the memory-keeper of this particular book as the series was more her like than my own.
The writing is simple and easy-to-follow making it a great book for those children who are on the beginning of reading chapter books.
Otherwise for the diedhard reading fan who isn't into re-reading childhood books for nostalgia purposes there isn't much to hold one's attention.
My great-grandmother gave me this book when I was in second grade.
It was the first chapter book that I ever owned and I loved it!
I still have all of my books from my childhood and read the first one to my daughter.
Hopefully, she will fall in love with them and let me read more to her!Emily (6 years old): The Newcombs have mice because they didn't take care of the Bigg's house and Tom made friends with their cat.
The Biggs found the cat in the house and thought the cat snuck in.
People should read this book.
Just started reading this series with my son. I thought it was appropriate since I'm always calling my kids "The Littles". I think it's super cute and interesting, a bit like Stuart Little (which came way later). When I asked my son what he would rate it (between 1 and 5), he said "Six, for epic." Love the enthusiasm. :-)
I loved the I liked when Tom tied the yarn ball to the cat and sat on the cat!
When I was a kid, I really wanted to believe that tiny little people lived in the walls of my house and took little things from me and my family to furnish their home. Alas, it was all just fiction.
How is this different from The Borrowers? Cute story though a little simplistic. Also, the end is all exposition.
But I liked it a bit as a kid and decided to revisit it since I'd been looking up the similar sounding Secret World of Arrietty.
I like that they're small and thus natural underdogs, but I was hoping for a bit more ingenuity in their world.
Ex use dolls' clothes, maybe make weapons from pencils/pins/needles, and something a bit more clever than "talk to cat to tame the cat".
Even the arrows/swords they use arent explained much, which was a disappointment.I guess I'd like them to expand and explain their world.
The littles are tiny people with tails who live in the walls of the Bigg's. They get everything they need from the Bigg's house in return they keep the house up to code. When the Biggs go away for the summer they bring in a new family to watch the house who happens to bring in mice! The littles must sneak around the mice and keep up with the house. The book is great for young readers who like something different. I give it a 3 for a great story.
I read this series when I was a child and remember being very fond of the books, rereading the ones I owned. I am now reading them to my 4- almost-5-year-old and he loves them. The books have a decent amount of drawings to keep a younger child interested and the stories really spark his imagination. He's built houses for the "tinies" in Duplo, bristle block, and tinker toys.
Tom Little was my favorite character because in the book he was always the bravest. He dressed up in a mouse suit and went to go kill the bad mice. I was most surprised that the mice were bad in the story. I wouldn’t change the ending because it was amazing! When I finished the book I felt really happy.
Oh! How I loved The Littles! To the extent that I fervently wished that 1) it were true that tiny denizens lived in the walls of my house and that 2) they would come out and talk to me. I read these over and over when I was a little girl, enjoying, for example, the Littles' use of plastic sandwich bags as ground cloths for camping.Fun, charming, delightful books!
Great food for the imagination. A very tiny family of people - but with long tails - live hidden in the walls of a house. When the family of normal sized people goes on vacation and rents to someone for that time, trouble ensues for the Littles.
This is a very good series for 3rd grade readers who are a bit below or struggling with grade level texts. The story is about a family of little people with tails, who live in the walls of the Bigg's family house. The family must survive many dangers including a mouse incursion and a cat!
cute story setting up the series. the Littles have a lot of challenges to deal with such as mice and cats. although it is plot driven, this is better than the subsequent books because the arc of the series is being established.
My 7 year old really enjoyed this book. It's perfect for him to read or take turns. The story is simple enough and engaging.
A classic easy reader series!
Cute little book. It's very short and simple. We used it as a read aloud, but I think I will use later books as early reader chapter books instead of a read aloud. Cute book!
This book was okay, it went a bit to fast for me, I couldn't really keep up with what was happening, but otherwise, it was good.
One of the best children's books out there, the Littlest offer whimsical entertainment without anything to concern a parent. Every young person should have the opportunity to read this!
I rate it a 2 because they are attacking the cat and it is unfair because they are taking the whole place and that they have to many power.
