https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76758.Eight_Million_Ways_to_Die
You see, alcohol is trying to kill Matt Scudder, and maybe New York City is trying to kill him too, and it is through the contemplation of both kinds of stories that Matt comes closer to confronting his demons and getting on with what is left of his life.This is not only the finest Scudder so far, but a landmark and milestone of the hard-boiled genre.
It is of course a genre forever tied to the magic of particular cities, but this book is the only one I know that consciously uses the city's stories, the tales of the dead and the dying, as a sort of urban necromancy, a way of calling the hero forward, out of the depths of his city, squinting in pain toward the New York light.
When I do, this one is going to be very near the top.Matt Scudder is still working as an unlicensed private detective, and he is approached by an upscale prostitute named Kim. She wants to quit the business but is nervous about telling her pimp, Chance.
So he is attending AA meetings and trying to stay sober as he tracks Kim’s killer.From what I’ve read, Lawrence Block was originally going to end the Scudder series here, and it would have been a natural stopping place by the end of the book.
Wow. There are many characters with extended dialogue sequences in this book, and all of them are terrific.The plotting is deliciously complex, and the pacing is fantastic.
😥Update: I was impressed with the veracity of the struggle, and the compassion with which Block portrays the rollercoaster, and especially for the ending of the book.Some wonderfully-drawn characters here...
I don’t know what brought it on or what took it away.Lovely.
Two blocks away I could still feel the imprint of her kiss on my cheek.
Why, she wondered, would a woman want two men in her life?
But a customer was not a boyfriend, she said.
How could one feel anything for a customer?
Every time I post a review of one of Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder novels, my strong temptation is always to begin by saying that this is one of my favorite books in the series.
So, on the recommendation of Elaine Mardell, a call girl with whom Scudder has been intimate, Kim asks Scudder to intercede and speak to the pimp on her behalf.As most crime fiction fans know, Scudder is an ex-cop who now works as an unlicensed P.I. He also has a problem with alcohol that is getting progressively more serious, which is why, when the young woman first consults him, she finds Scudder in his "office" at Armstrong's saloon.Scudder agrees to take the case and tracks down the pimp, whose name is Chance and who seems to be unusually wise and sophisticated for someone in his profession.
The poet was a standout, but what really impressed me was how Block was able to make Scudder's struggle with alcohol consistently moving.
In a book with an alcoholic main character, it's a writing cinch to go for the emotional crisis around a bottle, but instead Block springs it when Scudder is dry, cornered in an alley.Small touches of humor mitigate the bleak, and the potential depressingness of the struggle with alcohol.
The way he conveys struggle in these tiny testaments without becoming maudlin or self-pitying is impressive.Words of wisdom from Mary's qualifying: "You know, it was a revelation to me to learn that I don't have to be comfortable.
Only the hooker ends up dead and the pimp hires Scudder to find out who killed her.
The characters are more alive than in the other Scudder books and Matt's struggle with his alcoholism gives this book something extra, making it more than just another detective story.The story is great, although I had a good idea who was involved with the murders about halfway though, although it wasn't as simple as I'd thought.
Matt dealing with his alcohol problem was center stage and it made me feel like I was dealing with it right alongside him.To sum it up, Eight Million Ways to Die = Fantastic.
Scudder gets too attached to a young woman.
One life-threatening bender later and we're left wondering if and/or when the next dive down the devil's gullet Scudder will attempt.
Not only survives, but gets it together enough to doggedly solve a very perplexing crime.
Very solid plot here backed by wonderful early '80s New York City details, which pave the street-level setting of this book in shit.
I don't know if this would be a 5-star book for everyone, even Block fans, but it hit me just right.
Right in the gut and I loved it.
"You know what you got in this city, this fucked-up toilet of a naked fucking city? You know what you got? You got eight million ways to die." ~Eight Million Ways to Die  Matt Scudder, how much do I love thee? Let me count the eight million ways. This is definitely my favorite of the Scudder books so far, for all the reasons captured in this review here. Eight Million Ways to Die is New York in all of its grimy splendor: murderous, amoral, seething and unsympathetic. Block creates an authentic p
Matt Scudder, how much do I love thee?
Eight Million Ways to Die is New York in all of its grimy splendor: murderous, amoral, seething and unsympathetic.
Scudder describes the degeneration of the subway system and if you think Block is exaggerating for dramatic effect, take a look at this slideshow of photos captured during this period.When I think of Scudder's New York, this is what comes to mind for me:It's enough to drive a good man to drink.
Matt has a choice to make -- stay sober and live, or drink and die.
You develop an appreciation of this man over four novels and then suddenly you're watching him self-destruct, it's a tough read and you spend 350 pages rooting for the guy to come good, to find a way out of the darkness, hanging on his every emotion and action as if it is your life that is in danger and not his.
In this, the fifth book in the famed Matthew Scudder series, Matt gets hired by a beautiful hooker to convince her pimp to let her get out of the life.
You get the sense that the case is the only thing that saving him from falling off the wagon again.The personal struggle is what puts this high above the previous Scudder books (which were all good).
I really enjoyed reading about Jan, Matt's love interest and the person who (in the previous novel) opened his eyes to his alcoholism and the solutions, as well as Chance, the level-headed pimp that totally bucks the stereotype.
What starts out as Matthew Scudder, fresh off of a drinking bender that landed him in a hospital, helping a hooker "get out of the game" turns into layer upon layer of murder and mystery in a city where people keep killing each other and there are eight million ways to die.This installment of Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series takes things to the next level.
When dead hookers turn up, it should be of no surprise that a detective is out pimp hunting, but the way Scudder takes it all in just struck me as hilarious and (for you South Park aficionados out there) immediately reminded me of 
I can easily say this is the first "great" Scudder book.
It's not that they're bad books, they're just not in the same league as Eight Million Ways to Die.In the 5th installment of the series, Block takes Scudder and the City of New York all the way down to rock bottom.
The subject matter is written with a sense of intensity that is often hard to ignore.Scudder advances so much as a character in this outing that he's quickly solidifying himself as one of my favorite detectives.
He's just an all around great read and I can't wait to get deeper into the series.
Ooze rhymes with booze, one thing that heavily influences this story and is a driving force behind Scudder.
The main thread is the constant struggle/battle Scudder has with his drinking which has been touched upon before in this series but is really at the forefront here.
The interactions between him and Scudder were some of the best for me and I was torn between what to think of him along the way.Another star for this novel is the city of New York.
A really good book though and by far the strongest in the series, each novel is building on the previous and is getting better and better.
Number 5 and going strong- "an oldie but a goodie" 'nuf said!
A typical one starts strong, with a re-introduction to the characters, careful observations of New York, and solid, human dialog.
But then most of the stories fall a little flat halfway through, overcome by the bland, formulaic mystery plot.
This stays strong throughout.
The characters start strong, and continue developing all the way through, with Scudder struggling in particular with his alcoholism, but learning how to handle it.
The plot also stays compelling, with a good mix of detective work (interview after interview) and action.
(The mystery's resolution is telegraphed far in advance, but I didn't mind.)
To date I've read 11 of his books including a couple as short stories.As you may have noticed, I've already claimed to love the pimp, Chance, in this story.
Well, Matt continues to fight his demons while at the same time, trying to find the murderer of one of Chance's 'girls.' This is the best Scudder I've read and they've all been great.
But I cannot wait until #6 in the series rolls around and it will soon.After this, I'm no longer messing around with these so-so, not worth my time books; these sissified reads.
It was complex story emotionally,i could have read 340+ pages of Matt Scudder and his problems without the crime plot,the violence.
I didnt care about the fact the case,the crime plot wasnt the most interesting in the series so far.
The characters,athmosphere,emotions was by the far the most impressive thing about the novel.Its hard not get so impressed by this series when too many crime books,series are the same old stories,same formula and dont have near the same weight,realer than real characters.
I could read 20 books about Matt Scudder going from and to his hotel,reading only his thoughts.
This book is why I read detective fiction.
It's not the mystery, crimes and action, but I do enjoy reading about that stuff.
I love the description of the mind of detectives and their efforts, frustrations, success and failure.
Matthew Scudder is especially wonderful to read about, maybe because he has so many problems and hides his sadness.
In this book, a lot of people are sad.
I am so glad I eavesdropped on their lives rather than live them.
Why read about a life like your own?
The weather was beautiful here today and I made a nice meatloaf for supper.
These books just keep getting better!
Unlicensed PI Matt Scudder returns, fresh out of hospital after a bout of alcohol poisoning and on the case of a dead hooker.
This book represents a change of heart for Matt - he finally acknowledges that his drinking is out of control and embarks on the 12 step program.
I really like the character development as the series progresses - Scudder seemed a caricature of a hard boiled gumshoe in the first book but he becomes more human with each book.
So happy that I've still got a dozen books left in this series :-)
Until I saw a great review by Stephen for Block's Grifter's Game from the Hard Case Crime collection.I read that short story, was thoroughly impressed, and set my mind tovisiting Matt Scudder again after a 20 year break.Eight Million Ways to Die was published before the four I had read.
I was set on giving the book three solid stars (i.e. I liked it), but the very last line of the story encompassed all that had happened and rounded out perspective on Matthew Scudder's character.
Synopsis/blurb......Nobody knows better than Matthew Scudder how far down a person can sink in this city.
Now finding Kim's killer will be Scudder's penance.
The book also won the Shamus Award for Best Hardcover PI Novel in 1982.When I say probably, I will qualify it by saying I was a little bit disappointed in the resolution of the crime and the motivations and raison d’être for the protagonist acting the way he/she did – I’ll leave it ambiguous to avoid spoiling anyone’s subsequent reading of the book.
Scudder is asked to speak to Kim’s pimp, Chance on her behalf to arrange this.
Woah, I thought after reading all the greats like Hammett and Chandler there were just re-hashes of their work in varying degrees of quality left.
I am a huge fan of the P.I. genre and this might be the best work I've read.
Having read Robert B.
Parker's Spenser novel Valediction where spenser becomes depressed after losing His girlfriens Susan.
Over the course of the book he starts to lose grip on his strict moral code and drinks excessivley.
When I finished Eight million ways to die I thought This is who Spenser might be if he continued on that path.
Without spoiling anything, I can tell you that I thought the plot was utterly brilliant (a common trait of the Scudder novels), but it was so far removed from the actual story that it felt like cheating a little bit.
The dialogue is stellar, he took the unlikeliest archetype (a pimp) and turned him into a fascinating character and the storyline turned upon its head so many times, I could've help by slow clap a couple times.EIGHT MILLION WAYS TO DIE had a huge standard to live by and so far (since I'm reading the books in order), it's the second best novel in the series.
As most readers of these books will agree, this is a mystery series where the actual mystery can often take a back seat to Block’s ever-developing three-dimensional portrait of the alcoholic ex-cop Matt Scudder, along with his usual detailed pre-gentrification New York setting and wonderful dialogue.
For those wondering, I absolutely did do my Citizen of the World duty and taught them all kinds of English profanity.) The obvious suspect is the victim’s pimp Chase (I don’t think it’s a spoiler to say that he didn’t do it, because Block never goes with the obvious suspect,) who is a great example of Block writing real people and not stereotypical puppets.The real heart of this book is obviously Scudder’s struggle with alcoholism.
Eight Million Ways To Die, Lawrence Block’s seminal crime novel has been called the best entry in his Matthew Scudder series.
Kim soon comes to the harsh reality that one of the eight million ways to die is to be horribly hacked into bloody pieces by a machete and Matt, now struggling to remain sober, vows to track down her killer.The New York City that Matthew Scudder inhabits is a rotten husk; it’s a Halloween pumpkin still on the front porch in June.
Fatalistic, bitter, and snide, these observations are above all also true.Eight Million Ways To Die  is considered a modern classic for a reason and it succeeds on every level.
Matthew is approached by a lady of the night, asking him to be the go-between with her and her pimp to get out of the business. The manager says he understands, but the prostitute ends up murdered. The investigation is on, with Scudder encountering a multitude of ways people end each other's lives.Good whodunnit.
Eight Million Ways to Die is a police procedural without all the artsy furbelows of some of the recent crime writing; I'm thinking of Gillian Flynn and Benjamin Black (and I like their work, believe me).
The crime is a fairly straightforward affair, yet still it must be solved, and the former NYPD detective Matthew Scudder is hired to do what the police have little time or interest for.
In this book, Scudder is fighting his desire to drink with AA meetings, black coffee, and trembling willpower.
Hair colour, eye colour, the colour of painted nails, drifting dark shadows, howling winds and driving rain all give this story more push in the right direction.Also, I don't know about Scudder as an alcoholic, but the way Block describes some of those drinks made me feel like running to my liquor cabinet and pouring one.Underlying everything is a bleak tone, not only set by the weather, but a host of other details.
Trudging through a foggy world of alcoholism and loneliness, he's surrounded by death and menace everywhere he goes.
It's pretty grim stuff.That's the way I like my hardboiled detective story: bleak and dark.
The reader can walk alongside Scudder, a former cop, now detective, through the mean streets of New York on a soul-bearing tour of his struggles with alcohol as he stubbornly follows every possible lead to solve a murder.
This one feels like a primer on how to solve crime, and he is fortunate enough to have cooperation from the police - uncommon in this scenario.We meet some very interesting whores, a unique pimp and the anonymous cloud of folk who need meetings.
The murderer wields a machete and his next targeted prey is Scudder.Some clips: "Look at me.
You're an alcoholic.
This is the first book of Lawrence Block that I read. It was the name that rose my interest at first. Reading it makes me want to drink, although I was a student in high school at that time.
