https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39031.The_Cabinet_of_Curiosities
Suddenly, not only are weather, flavor, and mood not happily mingling, but they’re actually engaged in open hostilities (the PSL, of course, would be lobbing pumpkin bombs at the others, Green Goblin-style), and you want no part of any of them.It should go without saying that this is, of course, solely my exceedingly subjective view, but Cabinet is the type of book that, when you’re in the mood for it, is like that first pumpkin spice latte of the season that you just can’t drink fast enough.
That’s right, we start in New York City in an ancient tunnel full of 36 dead bodies!
Great question and you’re about to find out.FBI agent Aloysius X.L. Pendergast (whew, what a name!) decides to investigate this site with the dead bodies and enlist Dr. Nora Kelly to help with the archaeology part of the investigation.(Quick side note that I learned from one of my good friends here on Goodreads.
Thanks Matthew for the great advice!)Okay, back to these dead bodies.
Get the idea?This book was great, creepy and super suspenseful.
This book was fantastic! The Pendergast series has been awesome so far. Well researched. Twists and turns. Suspense. Gore. Diabolical bad guys. Perilous situations. Last minute salvation. I am so glad this series has a lot more books because I don't want it to end!
Without having read Thunderhead, which is also a pretty good book, one would not be able to fully appreciate her background and expertise, as well as her connection to Bill Smithback, the journalist.
Now back to the story at hand, which spanned an impressive page count of over 600, the biggest Pendergast book I’ve read so far.
With a vivid prose that described late 19th century New York with a haunting atmosphere and the bizarreness of the cabinet of curiosities of old, the narrative lends itself to being spine-chilling at all the right times.
THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES still remains one of the best books that I have ever read. This is such an impressive novel.
Okay...I gave it a 5 star.
Not many of those on my list, but I gave Relic a 4 and the only way to up that was a 5.
I only do that if I figure I'll possibly reread at some point.The atmosphere in this book combined with the imaginative story line is, if not great, just short of it.
They're not mystery genre but border on several genres from there to paranormal...possibly edging into urban fantasy.
Good books, really.
While the story edges along the border of horror and touches other story lines you may have seen elsewhere still, within it's own reality things hold together well.
At a construction site in New York City, workers unearth more than thirty skeletons, evidence of a serial killer operating more than 100 years ago.
Agent Pendergast believes that there is a connection; in fact, he thinks the killings are the work of one man operating for more than a century...This definitely kept my adrenaline going; I read it during my commute, and I kept having to put it down at seriously crucial moments, which led to me chomping at the bit to finish work so I could find out what happened next.
The only thing I'm left feeling curious about is what took me so long to read this book, and the other Preston/Child's books?! This is a great mystery that includes tons of action, twists/turns and great horror moments. Special Agent Pendergast is such a fun, mysterious and always interesting character. I enjoyed getting more of his background in this installment. Thanks to Ginger and Matthew for the fun buddy read!
While the mystery angle is different, this book has a lot in common with the previous two, Relic and Reliquary because of so much time spent in the museum, using similar research to unearth mystery, and trailing New York City to unmask a killer.
Cleverly twisted with suspenseful spots, I can't fault the mystery story itself other than the pacing of the book lagging, waxing and waning at random times.I started getting weighed down with Nora and Bill especially.
Nora wasn't really that interesting either - I dug some of her inner political struggles and liked how the ending of the book worked out for her, but she didn't hold a high degree of chemistry with me.
Considering how weird all this is, it is no wonder Pendergast gets involved.
I cannot write more about it or I'll ruin the part of the story.
If he was a bit of omniscient before, here he gets another, more human layer to his personality.
There wasn't a single thing he did here to make me even like, let alone love him.
That, and one time it was even unbelievable considering the place the characters doing it were in.Parts of this story were too hard to read.
One of the most creepiest books that i might have happened to have read in a long time.I am a little scared still ©.©
The Cabinet of Curiosities is an excellent serial killer based story.
It has all the trademarks of this series - great writing, subtle humour, brilliant characters and an intricate mystery.
The Cabinet of Curiosities gives us a far deeper look into Pendergast than either of the previous books.
He reminded me of Benedict Cumberbatch in Sherlock with his mannerisms, memory palace and coterie of smart assistants.
I wonder how much inspiration Mark Gatis took from Pendergast when creating Sherlock - I am sure there would have been some influence at the least.
Pendergast out-Sherlock's Sherlock.
In conclusion, this is a great read.
4.5 stars. Definitely the best in the series so far. Gradually we are learning more about Pendergast. These authors know how to write a suspenseful story! Two nights in a row I was unable to carry on reading because I was finding it creepy and I didn't think I'd be able to sleep if I read any more. And I read quite a lot of grimdark and horror type books. I enjoyed the history in this book too. An all round thoroughly entertaining read.
Audiobook # 218I've read every book in the Pendergast series, but I thought I'd give the audiobooks a whirl so I can listen to them at work. I recommend every single one of them. He is my favorite detective.
So this book starts with your usual mystery type characters.
While the police force stumbles around with loose ends, the four main characters I described earlier come together to start piecing together clues and eventually solving the mystery.
I wanted this 600 page book with some excitement in the last 100 pages to finally end.
Although you don't have to read them in order, there might have been some more build-up or explanations of characters, such as the initial chemistry between Nora and Smithback in earlier books that might have made it more enjoyable for me.
This is a great book and the best stand alone book of the series. With great research into the underworld of New York city, the environment for this novel is incredible both equally spooky as well as fascinating. This is the first true Pendergast novel. Up until than he has been one character in a cast of characters, now for really the first time, he is the focus of the novel. And he easily carries the novel, the character himself and his family history are fascinating. This also begins to elude to future novels specifically the Diogenes trilogy.
Another great read from one of the best pair of authors around!
Super Pendergast returns!
Praise HIS might!Yes, THAT was the worst part of this book.
When I was reading about his "super powers" I thought something like: "What the hell?!
Pendergast is the type of person who knows EVERYTHING better than you and probably can speak fluently in more than 90% of known languages.
Add to this incredible stamina and nearly absolute resistance to a pain and you have our Super Hero.
I swear, in next books he'll be flying and killing hordes of Mbwuns with his laser sight.
The only thing that really was irritating me was Super Pendergast.
I loved this book and it was even better as agent Pendergst was in it from the beginning.
as I've come to know now the book has a really creepy factor..
there's a murder site discovered from over 100years ago but some similar murders are happening.
the book was so will written and I loved all the characters.
it kept me fussing and that's one thing I lie about these books, and they are hard to bout down.
one interesting is you find out a lot more about Pendergst and some of his family.
if you like a mystery/crime its allso horror.
4.5I’ve always been curious about the curiosities. Teehee. Cabinets to be exact. In these you learn quite a bit of history. I found it fascinating. The first ‘museums’ of a sort, imagine one so immense that it took more than one lifetime to gather. Imagine one that gave you long life. Imagine the curious cabinet of a serial killer... there is something for everyone in this book. Antiquities galore.
He was really annoying and even me, a regular guy who watched a lot of crime shows and read some books on those subjects, knows that you do not arrest people on murder charges just because you got few loose clues on their actions during the murders.
I also had a praise for Smithback who was cocky and annoying but I got to give him points for knowing how to do research and get his hands on relevant resources for his articles, even though he tends to be a bit too risky and stupid.All in all, a highly recommended book.
I really liked the title of this book when I saw it as it reminded me of something that might be the name of a book in the 19th or early 20th century.
Cabinets of curiosities are not necessarily cabinets in the sense of pieces of furniture with items in it, but can be whole houses or rooms filled with various things of interest...like exhibits in a museum.
Tuhdinpaksuisesta teoksesta voisi tosin leikata sivuja pois reippaalla kädellä, sillä sisältöä ei tarjota aivan niin paljoa, että näin monelle näkökulmalle ja sivujuonteelle kannattaisi uhrata noin paljon paperia.
Tästä huolimatta kirjan lukee hyvin nopeasti.
Suosittelen tätä kesäluettavaksi, sillä paljoa ei tarvitse ajatella itse.
Mutta teoksen juoni ja päähahmot ovat silti kiinnostavia.
Pendergastissa on jotain samaa kuin Sherlock Holmesissa, joskin ensinmainittu on paljon miellyttävämpi laajasta tietämyksestään huolimatta.
Sivuhahmo ovat hyvin kliseisiä (mm.
korruptoituneet, ylipainoiset poliisit), samoin pahis, mutta tämä oli sentään motiiveiltaan kuitenkin jossain määrin mielenkiintoinen hahmo.
Joskin dinosaurusten luut kannattaa jättää paleontologin tutkittaviksi, ts.
terminologiassa oli välillä hieman horjuntaa.
“Hearing the real story might help exercise the demons.”  Yes please.Pendergast has officially taken over this series! We finally get some back story about this man of mystery. Spoiler Alert: The Pendergast family is more interesting and dramatic than yours.I hope each successive book reveals more skeletons in his closet.
Dark, macabre, and satisfying! The narrative is very well written and I love the Pendergast character. A provocative central theme dealing with immortality and family legacy.
FBI Special Investigator Pendergast is wrapped up in one of his most problematic cases. Interesting plot, great characters and the right amount of tension made for a fun read.
Since I have a hearty bus commute these days, I do a lot of reading.
Though I love fine literature, at times, when on the bus, I just want a good pulpy detective novel and this is one of the best I have read so far.
Co written by Douglas Preston & Lincoln Childs, this ghoulish, gothic tale set against the backdrop of contemporary Manhattan is one of those books that will keep you up till 3 AM if you aren't careful.
These authors have written quite a number of books together and though I have not read them all I have read a few.
Luin kirjan noin päivässä ja se oli erinomainen lukujumin nitistäjä. Ei minusta fania tullut, mutta viihdyin teoksen parissa erinomaisesti ensimmäiseltä sivulta viimeiselle.
Pendergraph is a unique character that comes across like a cross between X-Files and the Shadow (from the classic DC Comic collection).
it's a good thing this isn't a romance based action novel.
That worked well with the "Shadow Knows" theme that fits Pendergahst well so it's not a huge thing, its not completely fair though.Given those things, this is the best Preston and Childs book yet (which I will say again when I post my critique of "The Still Life of Crows" which is better but going from really good to better is what we are talking about).
3) Very dumb epiphanies - the final room to room walkthrough with the insects, then the lizards, then the clothing, then finally the armor - somehow help the mad scientist who uses these things to help him achieve his lifelong goal of - wait for it - devising the ultimate poison.
Even worse, there was a much better answer: Mad scientist guy should have been developing a way to generate life from a chemical soup and then speed evolution in order to shape a new series of life forms to suit his desires.
