https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4239815-a-woman-named-smith
So off she goes, with her best friend Alicia, to occupy her Colonial mansion in South Carolina.And there they discover family history, and family secrets, and family mysteries, and family feuds.
(Of course.)I love the character of Alicia, who is all sweet and wide-eyed and ingénue-ish, and then quietly skewers some condescending pest so neatly that the reader laughs and so sweetly that the target fails to notice.
And the various love interests are variously amusing and pleasing, and of course our Woman Named Smith is very endearing.The plot is maybe a little predictable, especially when it comes to the Family Mysteries, but the real fun is in the characters anyway.
Wonderful story, characters, creepy old house dripping with history and betrayal and scandal - it's even set in American and I rarely have patience with my own country's gothic tales.
Probably helped the main female characters were an English and Irish girl.
I never remember being so sad at finding that an author doesn't have more books for me to read!
This author only wrote two others -one I honestly have no interest in and the other I cant quite make out what sort of story it is.At least I have this one.
One of my favourite books of all-time. She reminds me of a godly, sane Anne Rice, as they share very similar writing styles. For example, there's the blue-eyed bias where half the characters have blue eyes. Both go through extreme lengths to describe flowers we don't know or care to know about. Both favour Southern American settings. And of course, they avoid the use of simple language. I may sound cynical, but I actually did love this book and would recommend it to anyone who likes a good ghost story with a shot of romance.
A book so sweet that it is hard to say goodbye at the end. The pages of my copy were brittle and yellow with age. At it times was laugh out loud funny and kept my interest till the last page. It was another time and place but people are so the same. I would like a copy for my own library but they are not inexpensive!

As i was shopping w/my daughter at an old and rare bookstore, I found this book which sounded good. I'm glad i purchased it as the story was, somewhat, different compared to others. I like the way that the author developed the story.When Ms Smith inherited the house none of the relatives wanted it; but as she began renovations, and news spread, then they became inquisitive and the story develops from there.I paid more than I expected but although it wasnt a First Edition, it was one of the first year of printing, 1919 or was 1918?
This was a fun, quick mystery. It was published in 1919 and is dated in some parts, especially in regards to the portrayal of blacks, women and the Irish. A reference to the popular decorative swastika made me choke on my lunch until I double-checked that date of publication.
It was a fun, easy read. The story is more a romance than a mystery. I enjoyed the antics of Sophy and Alicia, two younger women from Boston, trying to fit in in South Carolina. All the characters are enjoyable.
I guess I liked it? Kind of an odd book, slow for the majority of the plot and then suddenly goes into macabre thriller territory, and there were plenty of spots where the author kind of dropped the ball and didn't really spend time on the right things. But in spite of that, it was readable.
Another Kindle freebie. Oemler's book, stripped down of its magnificent details, would make a hilarious turn of the century comedic play. Romance, intrigue, and a bit of horror abound in this book. A fun read!
I laughed aloud several times reading this book. The characters are unique and funny, and the author (and The Author for that matter) nsay things just right to capture the sentiment beautifully in the best way possible.
A good but not a great book. Better read as a period romance with supernatural elements than as any sort of mystery or village-piece novel. Sort of a cross between Bronte and L.M. Montgomery, but a bit more detached than either.
I really enjoyed this book. There wasn't anything spectacular, but I loved the characters and the story line kept me interested the whole time. Definitely a fun read.
Loved this historical book. It has is all, some murder mystery, love story, and great insight into the South after the Cival war.
Very different read for me, but glad I stuck with it!
This book was very fun for me. Definitely a book I would loan to a friend- my biggest objection to reading on Kindle format!
This was kind of a fun mystery about an old Southern family and their lost jewels with a bit of romance thrown in for good measure.
