https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958274.Junie_B_Jones_and_Some_Sneaky_Peeky_Spying
I love that she said that: "I checked this out for you, Mom."Some good lessons in this book about what honesty is and isn't.
It's a realistic take on what young kids are thinking and feeling.Here's my favorite part:Then [Principal] called Mother on the telephone.
And also about my sneaky peeky spying.Principal is a squealer.After that, Mother said she wanted to talk to me.
And we would talk about this after her work.Then Mother said she never wants to get any more phone calls from Principal.
Did I?I looked at Principal."Mother says not to call her any more," I told him.Then Mother did a loud groan in the phone.
Jones le da una carta para que Junie B.
También que es un buen libro para los niños Porque tiene una lección y la lección es que es malo a espía.
De este libro me gusta casi todo la cose como es chistoso y muy bueno y tiene palabras maravillosa.
También me gusta como Junie b Jones actúa.
La razón que debes leer este libro es porque el libro tiene mucha cosas chistosas y ella esta espiando.
A mí me gusto mucho este libro porque dice como espiar a personas y no van a saber que tu estas hay.
Junie B.
thinks she is the best spier in the world just because she has sneaky feet.
Also her nose doesn't whistle when she breaths.
When her and mother went to the grocery store she saw her teacher and she spied on that crazy teacher of hers!
Then while she was spieing on Mrs. she saw that crazy teacher put a grape that she did not pay for in her mouth!
This reminded Junie B.
If you were wondering where her mother was at this time she thought that Junie B.
Funny! Do kids get how funny? I wasn't expecting that funny, actually.
Another fun and humorous Junie B. Jones book with all the bad grammar you've come to expect.I never had quite so much attitude as Junie, but, a lot of her capers remind me of myself at that age. They read authentic to the kindergarten experience.
Junie B. is so cute. I'm glad I listened to the audio version of this as a "re-read"!
I have not yet met a Junie B. Jones book I didn't like. It's like Diary of a Wimpy Kid or The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency -- there isn't a bad one in the bunch. I don't know how they can keep being funny in new ways with old material, but this one was exceptionally hilarious. I think I enjoyed it more than my kids did. I've never said this about a book before, but the audio is better than reading it yourself.
might be real sneaky.
Although her mother tells her time after time to not spy on people Junie B.
After seeing this happen, she knows that she cannot go home and tell her mom otherwise she will get in trouble for spying in the first place.
Nevertheless, since her mom told her that she couldn’t hand-deliver the cookies she made for her teacher Junie B.
The message is cute that if you see someone do something that you feel is not good then it’s okay to tell someone instead of trying to hold it in for forever!
One of my favorite books is Junie B Jones and Some Sneaky Peeky Spying written by Barbara Park.I think that other 4th graders should read this book and I give it 5 stars! One reason is I like this book is because Junie B is funny. She’s funny because when she was talking about being in Kindergarten she said “why is that silly word kindergarten when it’s supposed to be zero grade” She also said that she would be a good spier because she has sneaky feet and her nose doesn’t whistle when she breat
One of my favorite books is Junie B Jones and Some Sneaky Peeky Spying written by Barbara Park.I think that other 4th graders should read this book and I give it 5 stars!
One reason is I like this book is because Junie B is funny.
Junie B Jones spies on her teacher and her little brother Ollie and I like to spy on my teacher and on my sister.Another reason I like this book is because it teaches you a lesson.She learned that is not respectful to spy on people or then you will be in BIG trouble!As you can see Junie B Jones and Some Sneaky Peeky Spying is the best book!
I think you will like this book!
1. Her name is Junie B. Jones. The B stands for Beatrice, except she doesn't like Beatrice. She just likes B and that's all. In this continuation of her series, she has to learn to be the best spier in the whole world because she has to spy on Mrs., that's why!2. Grade 23. Library4. Students who read Junie B. Jones5/6. This continuance of the Barbara Park series would be a great addition to any elementary school bookshelf. 7. Junie B. Jones and JBJ: First Grader series8. None
I thought this book was adorable. I Junie B is such a funny girl. She is so full of character and I think the author did a wonderful job of portraying her in the story. Although the slang in the book just shows what kind of person Junie B is I'm not sure kids will leave it in the book. Its very easy to pick up on things and speak with bad grammer as Junie B does.
Okay, this is obviously not the best book in the world, but I cannot remember the last time we laughed so much during our bedtime reading sessions.
June B jones books are my fav I'm a BIG fan love this book
Maidie: At the end when Junie B. Jones was in Principal's office, it made me and my mommy LOL!
I think that this book was good, and that a lot of kids would love to read books like these.PlotThe book all started when Junie went to the grocery store with her mother, and she saw her teacher.
The next day, at school, Junie went and talked to the principal.
She never seemed to learn from her mistakes that she had made in the past.SettingThe setting of this book takes place at the characters hometown grocery store.
After the scenes at the store, the book takes place at Junie’s school which is where she tells the principal about what she saw at the grocery store.
In this specific book, Junie B.
Jones wanted to be a spy.
One day at the grocery store, Junie B.
Jones spotted her teacher, Mrs., at the store eating grapes that she had not paid for and also kissing some strange man.
Jones was spying on Mrs. and knew she needed to keep the secret.
At school on Monday, Junie B.
The ending of the book was very cute and talked about having a Grandparent's Day at school.
Jones is portrayed as a kindergartener in this book so the way she is talking is written like that.
Jones and Some Sneaky Peeky Spying is a fiction book about Junie B.
Jones really wanting to find out where her teacher lives.
She’s not exactly sure how she is going to get to her teacher’s house, but remembers that Grandparents Day is coming up at school.
The clever and sneaky Junie B.
decides to ask Mrs. where she lives, so that she can deliver the cookies to her house.
Although, Mrs. declines and asks her to bring the cookies at school instead.
The illustrations in the book are drawn with a pencil, but has fine detail of Junie B.
She has “sneaky feet” and her nose does not whistle, so she has an easy time spying on people.
I really like this book and I think the concept of a kindergartener misinterpreting something is a very realistic one, but I can see how some parents would not want their kids reading this book.
The story does involve Junie spying on people without their permission, and getting herself and others in trouble because of it.
I could see it possibly being used in a kindergarten class for a specific lesson and read-aloud, but I think his book is probably best for first, second, and third graders.
Jones struggles with an intractable curiosity with her Kindergarten teacher’s private life, further complicated by witnessing her apparent theft of a grape at the grocery store, was what happened the Sunday morning after we read this scene: we unexpectedly encountered my daughter’s Kindergarten teacher for the first time outside of school, at an indoor playground!
Her response was to hide behind me rather than meet her teacher’s children.
She did try to listen in during a recent Parent Teacher Conference, but that’s a different story, which I don’t blame her for– who doesn’t love to hear great things being spoken about them!
In this story Junie B.
Jones liked to spy on different people.
Here mother got on to her and told her not to spy on people.
She spied on Mrs. and wanted to keep it a secret but, Lucille told her that her older brother told her that it would put to much pressure on her head and that it would explode open.
Then, she had to talk to the principal and her secret accidentally spilled to the principal and she found out the truth.
I really liked this story and if you read it you probably will to!!!
*Note: This is a review of the entire series as a whole because I feel the same about each book.*Quite honestly, I think this should be one of the first chapter books you let your kids read.
Sure, the grammar is a little off at times (it's a small child, come on!) and the subject matter can get a little crazy (Once again, it's a small child!) these books are entertaining and easy to read for your little readers!
My cousin who is 6 LOVES these books, and when I was little I loved them too.
Overall a cute and funny series for your beginning reader!
Junie B. has discovered the things she can learn when she spies on her mom, on her grandpa, and even her teacher at the grocery store. But when she watches Mrs. kiss a strange man and eat grapes without paying the storeman Junie B. has a secret that is building pressure in her head and it might just explode! It was interesting in this book for me because I recognized how Junie B.'s mother's parenting style is quite different from what I will want to do in the future.
12/2Fiction1st-4thJunie B. Jones was most definitely my favorite chapter books growing up! The first page is the exact same in every book so my dad helped me memorize it when I was a little girl! I thought Junie B was the best girl in the world! What fun it was to read a book again! She never fails to make me giggle and smile.
Another great book! It is perhaps one of the best books in the series. I enjoyed reading them. I could never read all of them unfortunately because I never had them at home. Some day I hope to read more!
Genre: Contemporary Realistic FictionGrade Level: 1-5I love this book. Junie B. will always keep you laughing. The way Barbara Park makes it sound like Junie, a kindergartner, is actually narrating is awesome. I would recommend this book to a new reader or just an elementary student.
The Junie B. Jones collection is my absolute favorite books of all time. They are fun and completely relatable to every child. There books are a must read. Genre: Realistic Grade 2nd and higher
I have never read a Junie B. Jones story. It was very cute as far as have Junie speaking just like you would imagine. Would I read the book to the class? Probably not, but I would have it available for free reading.
These books grew on me after quite a bit of time, because the first one put me off. The fact that a sweet little soul is within that brat called Junie which shines in at the end is charming. The comic aspect with people having aspirin repeatedly due to her obnoxiousness saves the stories as well.
Junie learns a lesson about spying, secrets and rumors in this knee slapping, realistic, beginner fiction. I just love her voice. I find myself talking like her after reading too many Junie B.s in a row!
I still enjoy Junie B Jones and her crazy adventures, but this one wasn't my favorite. A little blander than her usual adventures, but still a good read.
