https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22733729-the-long-way-to-a-small-angry-planet
It’s a great big world.
If you love well-written settings where the lore isn’t a bunch of facts but is actually a huge factor in the plot, you will like this.3.
It’s relaxing to read authors who actually like people.
Even in our world, gender’s a lot more complicated than “there are two sexes,” yet books are often “here are all these extraordinary species that are totally different from humans, yet every single being is still either male or female.”8.
Human culture is as interesting as the alien cultures.
I heard this book was about gays in space. I'm gay and I think space is cool. Seems like a no brainer.
I was surprised at how disappointing it was given that I picked it up on the basis of the normally dependable Adam Roberts' recommendation in his end of year 2015 round-up in the Guardian.I understand the desire to move SF from plot-driven narratives to character-driven narratives but you are throwing the baby out with the bathwater if your character-driven narrative doesn't actually contain any characters worth reading about.
“The truth is, Rosemary, that you are capable of anything. Good or bad. You always have been, and you always will be. Given the right push, you, too, could do horrible things. That darkness exists within all of us.”  This is the kind of book that makes you remember why you fell in love with reading. This is the kind of book that feels so powerful you can’t believe it exists. This is the kind of book that sets your very soul on fire and makes you want to do better. This is the kind of book that
I suppose the easy thing to say is that this book is about a crew, traveling through space on the Wayfarer, exploring the galaxy and taking on new adventures.
I will say I think the moment I fell in love with this book was when Jenks asked Lovey, “What kind of body do you want to have?” One of my biggest pet peeves in all of literature is when authors give AIs genders.
I have never read a book with a better found family in my entire life, and I don’t think I ever will.
I always get nervous reading a sci-fi book because I'm afraid I won't know what's going on - and yes I say that every time.
I want you to know that I fell in love with all of the characters on this ship!
Everyone in the book had to make choices, to share their secrets, to make choices for others so they wouldn't die even if they didn't want that choice made, thoughts and feelings toward other crew members, AI love, people trying to hide their love for things that just finally had to come out.
I loved learning about all of these people and the things they went through and the evil people and the bots and this that and the other.
Recommended to me as a cure for the heavy, blood and guts diet that's so prevalent in today's SF/F, I was more than just a little bit interested in an antidote.What I found, instead, was a heartily tasty meal of perfectly prepared insects aboard the Wayfarer, enjoying wonderful conversations and a surprisingly diverse collection of humans, aliens, and a truly beautiful soul within an AI.I mean, this is space-opera.
In other words, we got just the tip of the iceberg, and our imaginations fill in so much of the rest, to our delight.So is this space-opera, or not?
She's made something delightful and new, humorous and lovely, and at one point I would have said this whole novel would have been a light read, but no, there's real meat here.
Re-read 8/9/18: I’m crying in a puddle of my feels. I love this book so damn much. JENKS ❤😭Original review 11/23/16: I have just completed reading my favorite book of all time. There has never been a book to touch me as much as this one did. I just. I can't. I'm like. Spent. I cannot even comprehend or articulate how much I loved this fucking book. Oh my god
Re-read 8/9/18: I’m crying in a puddle of my feels. I love this book so damn much. JENKS ❤️😭Original review 11/23/16: I have just completed reading my favorite book of all time. There has never been a book to touch me as much as this one did. I just. I can't. I'm like. Spent. I cannot even comprehend or articulate how much I loved this fucking book. Oh my god
The captain of the Wayfarer hired Rosemary hoping that a licensed clerk would give access to bigger jobs, and it's a gamble that pays off when they are offered a contract to create a tunnel near the galaxy core and the warlike Toremi, new members of the Galactic Confederation.Much like any ship-enclosed story, it largely becomes about the characters and how they interact.
I initially ignored them, until I learned one near the end of the book drops a significant story point.
It isn't going to work for everyone; I'd recommend it for people who enjoy character-driven stories and envisioning alien cultures.
3.5 starsIf you're looking for an action-packed, page-turning adventure story, this book is not for you.
However, if you want a sci-fi novel that delivers wonderful characters and thoughtful commentary on existence, you've found the right book.The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet is something unique.
It blends literary and science fictions into a story that looks at what it means to be human--or alien--amidst a world of chaos.And while I really enjoyed reading about these characters and their quirky, distinct personalities, there was no growth.
This was much more a story of character & thematic exploration than development.
“Humans, we’ve got something dangerous in us. We almost destroyed ourselves because of it.” 4.5 stars ⭐ Outstanding! I’ve officially been converted to sci fi! Until this book I’ve never enjoyed sci fi. This has completely changed my view of sci fi and it is flipping awesome!Some of the most imaginative world building and characterisations I’ve ever come across. The crew of the Wayfarer were amazing and I loved them all in their own way. The relationships were fantastic, both platonic and romant
Until this book I’ve never enjoyed sci fi.
The crew of the Wayfarer were amazing and I loved them all in their own way.
Many of the characters come from planets and species at war, though many are now at peace, it took a long time to create this political calm.
Always with a snack, constantly saying the wrong thing, fully aware of the constant failure of romantic relationships so has zero interest in them and a super excitable child when it comes to tech!Jenks is the best friend anyone could have.
The mother figure, and comes from such an interesting species.
4.5 A great feel-good sci-fi and character-driven story that explores gender, race, politics, and sexuality.There were some great friendships, I giggled a few times and it was an oddly relaxing read!I need to pick up the next one!
Character driven sci-fi should have proper characters and character development, not Care bears in alien costumes.This book is just too naive, everyone is so nice, polite, warm and excepting and bad characters are just stereotypicaly bad .There is no room for drama and character growth.
In the end this book just wasn't for me.Maybe it's because I expected something of depth of Le Guin's books that blurbs mentioned, maybe it's because I was still under impression of much better character driven sci-fi (Planetfall) which I read around same time, maybe I am just too much of Cynic to swallow something this warm and sweet and maybe it's combination of all those.
There wasn’t much of a story at all, but it was still engaging just on the strength of the characters alone.
The overall arc is more about the characters and how their relationships change over time than any actual describable narrative.That all sounds kind of negative when I read it back, but it’s not meant to be.
Mostly I’m just impressed with how well it worked here, because I think something like this would be incredibly difficult to pull off.It’s a comfort read, like a warm bowl of soup, but with fantastic world-building and great characters.
This universe is very lived in, and extremely ripe for more stories in the future.
I LOVED THIS SOOOOO MUCH
4.5 Stars  “All you can do, Rosemary – all any of us can do – is work to be something positive instead. That is a choice that every sapient must make every day of their life. The universe is what we make of it. It’s up to you to decide what part you will play.”  Before picking this up, I knew nothing about it—except slow-burn, found-family in space. And honestly that’s half my reading tastes in one sentence. But what I didn’t know (and what elevated this book to ‘awesome’ status for me) is its q
This is definitely not a high-stakes space adventure, but instead we see the characters navigate new friendships and new lands.
Something about these discussions seemed so genuine, and I think these repeated-everyday decisions to love each other say more about the humanity’s capacity for goodness than a single rescue or good deed so far removed from real life.
(Also I loved every single character.
It lead to some great discussions… it just didn’t feel worth all that build up??Overall This is zany, but also makes your heart ache in the good way.
You can’t help but love the characters, even if they are following a plot that doesn’t really go anywhere.
Seriously though, while the central ship in The Long Way to a Small Angry Planet is actually named The Wayfarer almost everyone in the book is so cloyingly sweet that the name of the Simpsons' archetypal nice guy seems like a better fit.
I wanted to bail out at forty pages, but finally gave up at 70%, making this one of the very rare SF books that I haven't finished.The story begins with a young woman named Rosemary who is fleeing her past.
We join the crew for meals, for wormhole tunneling jobs, shopping trips and sundry other generally low stakes activities that are all chances for long, life-affirming we’re-all-buddies chats leavened with great clumps of exposition.
There's no way to perfectly review one of the most complex, meditative books I've ever read.
Kizzy is the mechanic, a spastic human disaster but definitely a funny one.
There are so many great platonic relationships here; the two mechanics, Kizzy and Rosemary, and the captain and his second-in-command especially stood out in my mind.
There are three good romantic relationships here, but none overtake the book.
All three are between two different species, which I really appreciated.
But one part of the climax seems thrown in to orchestrate a sequel, which I didn't love.
Also, brief shoutout to this book for orchestrating at least forty Pragya drags.
Post originally from the booksandpieces blog.I tried to write a coherent review but all I can say is I LOVE IT WITH ALL MY HEART.
I love the universe that has been created, the elegant way it is created through little details of life and habits.
I love the food and the soap and wine and small intricacies of life in space rather than just war in space.
I love the interaction of the alien species, the coming together, the falling aparts, and the (mis)understandings.
Because, in the end, love wins.
Going for £0.99 on Amazon Kindle UK right now! Grab it while you can!Characterization. This is how you do it.This books was SO well written. It felt so real. Don't go in expecting space battles and an epic space opera. Go in expecting superb characters (many of which are aliens) against the backdrop of space.Loved it.Book Depository has free worldwide shipping for it :)
But, since a few people said it was their favorite book they read last year, I figured it was worth giving it a try.Whenever I dig into a Sci-Fi or Fantasy novel, I usually find the new world a bit difficult to get into.
That was honestly the case with this book as well; lots of new planets, species, technology, politics, etc.
I cannot imagine creating a balance with more character and less story while keeping everything moving along is an easy thing to do, but Chambers does a great job.
3/5 ★★★  "A black hole was the perfect place to contemplate death. There was nothing in the universe that could last forever. Not stars. Not matter. Nothing.”  This book had me on the fence for either a three or four star rating, I settled for 3.5 right smack bang in the middle. Haha.I'm going keep this review short & sweet.  “It was more the prospect of getting mugged. Or harassed. Or stabbed. She’d seen a few people that definitely looked stabby.”  I picked this book up after I saw two of
"and all the people seeing us fly by are like, oh my stars, look at that totally amazing ship, what genius tech patched together such a thing, and I’m like, oh, that’s me, Kizzy Shao, you can all name your babies after me – whooosh"
Things I liked;◆ I love the diversity, all characters were different.
It was definitely filled with rainbows, puppy dogs & kittens :DThings I didn't like;◆ Slow paced plot.◆ Lack of action◆ When the people robbed their ship, they let it happen..
These socks — match — my hat!”“Kizzy.”“A tool clattered to the ground.
There was a nebula there, an explosion of dust and light, the fiery corpse of an ancient giant. Within the gaseous folds slept clusters of unborn stars, shining softly. She took an inventory of her body. She felt her breath, her blood, the ties binding it all together. Every piece, down to the last atom had been made out here, flung through the open in a moment of violence, until they swirled round and round, churning and coalescing, becoming heavy, weighing each other down. But not any more, t
This is an incredibly progressive book and I love itTHIS REVIEW IS MAKING NO SENSE THOUGHI realise I am ramblingOh god there's just so much to sayMaybe I should start with what it's about.
It's amazing, and the intricate way the humans/aliens try to relate to eachother, and be compassionate of eachother despite fundamental differences in their morality/beliefs/culture is amazing.
I also loved the complexity of the aliens (Because I hate that in alot of sci-fi aliens are like humans).
This book was definitely unlike anything I have ever read before. It is a sci-fi about the crew on a spaceship called The Wayfarer. But don't go into this book expecting an action-packed space adventure. This is a completely character driven book that explores gender, sexuality, race and politics in the most beautiful way.
4.5 stars!
One where people spend most of their time worrying about things that aren't really important and doing boring crap.Now, I often very much enjoy stories that get "down to earth" and talk about what it's like to actually LIVE as an ordinary person in an imagined society: character-driven stories.
APPLAUD when he gets dragged into the fold and drinks the kool-aid, dammit!)There is a scene with pirates in this book.
That's what reading this book is like.
I want my gritty betrayals and world-smashing explosions, dammit!Addendum: I see others comparing this book to both Ursula LeGuin (?!?!?) and Star Trek.
I feel like that happens too often, authors create alien races that are cool but that lack the humanity that would qualify them as being genuinely good or sympathetic.
I was afraid a few times, specifically when Sissix was explaining her culture and the familial structures of her species, that Chambers would sell out and Sissix would have a humanizing "epiphany" realizing that yes!
of course it's "right" for me to feel a maternal bond to my hatchlings the way humans do with their children!
It wasn't "good" or "bad." They're just differences and it's okay.Now if only we humans could accept that amongst ourselves...
I have read Ready Player One and The Martian, both of which are totally different to this and very wonderful in their own ways (hence my 5* ratings for them too) but this book to me is more the pinnacle of sci-fi because those other two are a little more 'niche' than this, I feel like this would work for anyone.
I got sent it by Hodderscape (who are lovely) as they thought it was a book I might like, and they were certainly correct!
I can totally understand why people would love this book and if it had even a smidge of actual dramatic tension I would have loved it.The world building was interesting and detailed.
It is like the entire book was written to satisfy the author's love of world building but she forget to include an interesting plot.
But almost immediately the pirates agree to be reasonable, be non-violent, take only as much as they need, and leave enough food and supplies for the ship to get to a resupply station.
How interested am I once the drastic tension is sucked from the scene?I'm fucking not.
The adorable mechanic agrees to go fix their ship.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a lighthearted sci-fi that wasn’t over-the-top cheeky (like Hitchhiker’s), and this book struck a nice balance between levity and realism.
The pure joy in this this book caught me off guard in the best way possible.Good aliens are a huge requirement for me to get behind a space-travel sci-fi.
I have a feeling it’s all going to add up to a profound experience at some point.Series status: this lighthearted tale was exactly what I needed between some of my heavier reads.
I’ve already picked up the next book.Recommendations: if you like sci-fi and are in the mood for something lighthearted and fun, you can’t pick a better candidate than LWtoSAP.
QUE LIVRÃO DA PORRA!! Com certeza um dos melhores que li esse ano. Que personagens, que jornada, que escrita maravilhosa! Amei demais!! Depois escrevo algo que seja mais informativo, mas estou processando todas as emoções ainda. Muito bom!
