https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126232.Jaws
”Duuun dun duuun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun BOM BOM dun dun dun dun dun dun doo dedoo doo dedoo dede doo dede doo dededoo.” Has there ever been theme music used in a film more effectively than for the 1975 blockbuster movie Jaws? A movie so powerful that there are legions of people that have refused to go into the water EVER AGAIN after seeing that movie. I’m not a water person. Growing up in the landlocked Midwest I prefer to be able to see the bottom of whatever body of water I happen to be i
She reached down to touch her foot, treading water with her left leg to keep her head up, feeling in the blackness with her left hand.
In the book Benchley has several subplots that further explain the special interests that are controlling the decisions made by the town counsel.
Brody suspects the worst, and with the shark in the water and the piranhas on the town counsel he doesn’t need another distraction.
It was interesting reading the book and seeing the movie in such a close time frame.
Benchley wrote the screenplay, and frankly did an excellent job cutting and slicing his book into a great movie.
Well, I finally decided to read the book after watching the movie a million times growing up.
I wasn't sure it was going to be good, but I was wrong and I just might read the other books.
Here's the thing, just don't go in the water when you know people have been killed by a shark.
Lol The corrupt people are in the book not wanting to shut down the beach.
If you want a really quick summer read, or a trip down memory lane, or a killer shark book, then here you go =) Fin < -- See what I did there ;-D
My spirit animal is the great white shark. I've loved them for as long as I can remember. To most people, puppies are the epitome of cuteness. To me, it's great white sharks. How can you look at this face and not go 'aww' Sharks are probably the most misunderstood species on Earth.  They do not need or deserve our fear, they need our love.  Great whites don't have easy lives. The youngsters are left to fend for themselves right after birth. They are left to discover everything on their own. No k
My spirit animal is the great white shark.
To me, it's great white sharks.
Great whites don't have easy lives.
The youngsters are left to fend for themselves right after birth.
No love from mama shark.
It's no wonder they have anger-management problems.Here are a few interesting facts about great white sharks:-Male great white sharks reach sexual maturity at 26 years of age, females at 33.-They can live up to 70 years or more.-The great white shark is the only predator that has never been tamed or caged.
I loved the movie (and still do).
However, we can't ignore the fact that Jaws ruined everything for great white sharks.
I love crappy shark movies/books.
But the movie was much better than the book.
Oh that's right...
More than that even, Benchley has created an allegory whereby the surface story of a shark attacking a village is represented as a conflict between Eastern elite monied people and the blue collar folks who work for a living in Amity; the great white is as DNA programmed to attack and feed as the Izod wearing preppies who populated the town in the summer are to an entitled existence at the top of our socio-economic food chain.More than a class struggle, a distinction between summer and winter people in an Atlantic ocean hamlet, Benchley makes subtle statements about the sharks among us, about those in our culture who reach out and take what they want, consequences and laws be damned, and those of the vast majority who follow rules and who have established expectations about what life has for them.There is always a bigger fish.Just as Robert Shaw’s portrayal of Quint stole the show in Spielberg’s classic, so too does Quint in Benchley’s masterpiece.
Here is my view:Today I finished reading Jaws and this is all I see:So .
Maybe not the best timing!Jaws is an easy and cheesy read.
Also, it is very dated and you can just feel the 70s oozing out of the dialogue.In some cases, the things I mentioned in my previous paragraph might be considered bad.
But, in this case I think they add to the charm, entertainment, and sometimes silliness of the book.
Combined, it is just a fun and easy getaway.
still.and there are real estate schemes and mafia subplots and romantic entanglements and so many things that didn't make it into the film, like the lamentations of a woman feeling the sting of not getting any younger, losing her shiny sexxy feminine allure,A terrible, painful sadness clutched at Ellen.
She hated her life, and hated herself for hating it.MOAR SECONAL PLZand HOW is there not more attention called to the best line in any book, anywhere, as quint yells at the great white himself: “I see your cock, you bastard!” cried Quinthow are there no t-shirts made of this?
The movie also terrorized millions of viewers and inspired fear of the ocean and the unnecessary killings of no-one-will-ever-know-exactly-how-many sharks.The author himself, in an updated Introduction from 2005 (a year before his death) explains that “I could never write Jaws today.
I could never demonize an animal, especially not an animal that is much older and much more successful in its habitat than man is.”Apparently, he was so disheartened by the unfortunate outcome of his novel (the unnecessary killings part), he devoted the later part of his life to marine conservation, writing, “I'd feel like an ingrate if I didn't give something back.”So, he redeemed himself.
At first, I didn't favour either the movie or the book (which is different to the film), but the further I got into the novel, the less I enjoyed it.
A Great White (Carcharodon Carcharias) brings terror to Amity Island - when a young woman (Christine Watkins) is killed after going skinny dipping in the early hours.
When Brody realises, she was killed by a shark - he wants to close the beaches, but has opposition from just about everyone, more or less.
Some of the deaths were different in the movie; the way they played out, and the Killer Whale on the beach wasn't in the book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/2.5 Stars “That fish is a beauty. It’s the kind of thing that makes you believe in a god. It shows you what nature can do when she sets her mind to it.”  I’m getting ready to write a sharky review . . . .  Alright. Now that THAT is done, let’s get to the sad state of affairs which is my reaction to the novel Jaws. I’m not going to spend a lot of time on this review – mainly because I’m bummed out. I was sure I would love this book and
I did manage to finish this one and only cried for a little while.At the end of the day Jaws is a fish story.
We care about the shark eating people, plain and simple.
I didn’t like movie version Ellen Brody, but I absolutely DESPISED book version.
Jaws was a 2 Star read, but it's getting a ½ Star bump for the ending (which is probably the one thing most other people didn’t like).
Thank you for giving us one of the most quotable quotes of all time .

Second, I want to thank him for letting Ellen Brody be a background character in the movie so the movie wasn't ruined by that F*****g bitch.Jaws is one of my favorite movies.
I remember checking the beginning of the book to see if the beginning was just like the first scene from the movie.
What I didn't like was the Ellen Brody drama.
So angry that I wished she had been on the damn boat at the end with Brody, Quint, and Hopper.Despite being a good book can't I help to think that the movie is just so much better.
She knew that the warm, pulsing flow over her fingers in the chill water was her own blood…”-	Peter Benchley, JawsI have been told many, many times that I write long reviews.
It’s not simply a matter of the book being terrible and the movie being great.
It’s a matter of the movie being one of the greatest of all time, and making the book seem terrible by comparison.
Instead, Benchley uses this observation as a jumping-off point for an extended live-autopsy of Brody and Ellen’s marriage.
The best part about the book was the one time when the Great White Shark leaped from the ocean and shouted:  Don't Hate The Player, Hate The Game!  Okay, that might not have happened.Jaws tells the story of the people who live in Amity, a small seaside resort town which depends on summer tourists for its income. The town got a comparatively peaceful community, helmed by a gregarious mayor, a working-class police chief and a resourceful editor of the local newspaper. The town is having a hard tim
A perfect story is supposed balances human characters and creature fun perfectly, which Jaws was able to accomplish in the first act: A bloody introduction to action, a great spectrum of characters, and intriguing small-town politics.But the middle portion of the story is less captivating...
What gangsters?""Wait, wasn't there supposed to be a shark somewhere in the novel?"The final act is action filled, and all the shark attacks are fun to read, but at the end of the day, Shark gotta do what a shark gotta do, and it was the flaws of human players which held the story back.And yup, the movie is much better than the book.
I practically went into it blank apart from the knowledge of a shark being around in this tale.) It's fairly easy to summarize this book: There is no heavy or particularly complex plot; you get to see the shark early on, then you are introduced to some of the main characters who live in the town the shark has focused his attention on, then the shark reappears one hundred pages later, we have a dozen unnecessary subplots again which, of course, deserve no conclusion, then the shark stops by for a few pages again and the author cuts his own book off in the middle of a scene, leaving his reader hanging in the air.Benchley started out on a very strong premise, delving into the shark's POV and making his reader believe that the shark is actually allowed to be one of the main characters.
Watching Jaws through fresh eyes, it occurred to me that the movie was actually kind of…boring.But don’t get me wrong; I’ve certainly come to love the film now that I’m older, because I obviously wouldn’t have bothered to check out the book it was adapted from if I wasn’t such a big fan.
Let’s face it, barring a handful of edge-of-your-seat moments in the beginning of the film and of course John Williams’ classic score, things don’t really get going until Brody, Hooper and Quint finally end up on the ocean to hunt that big damn shark.
I was young (in my teens) and foolish enough to watch the movie based on this book while on vacation on an island... You don't have to ask me if I skipped going to sea for few days... :)
3.5 starsJaws was such a pleasant surprise for me.
I always loved the movie, and the novel is so much more than just your average monster book.
Not to mention the mayor who got involved with the wrong kind of people.
And because of that, he is willing to let innocent people die for profit.I like the omniscient point of view.
This way we get to peek inside the shark's mind.
Well, the author acknowledges it's not much of a mind, but it's still nice to know the fish's POV.I listened to the audiobook and I highly recommend it.
Jaws or 'the fish' as he prefers to be known is one big ass, mean motherfucking, rip toothed, man eating great white shark whose sole job is to harass the swimmers at Amity beach to the point where no-one dare go in the water and the livelihood of everyone in the town is severely under threat.
So what makes him perfectly qualified for this role, well he's got big fucking teeth, swims like a torpedo and has developed a taste for reading swimmers, boats and fishermen.
Reading, Woah, autocorrect error that was eating.
(view spoiler)[She ends up sleeping with Matt Hooper, ichthyologist and younger brother of a boy she once loved, much to the Chief's chagrin (hide spoiler)].Jaws is the tale of shady land speculation, organized crime and local governmental corruption, wherein another poor local boy "makes good," becomes Mayor, becomes one of the "nouveau riche," then winds up putting lives at risk to save his own skin and pay his bad debts.(view spoiler)[ A storyline that parallels and informs what's happening with Ellen, showing us what happens to those moving between classes in either direction (and suggesting that, perhaps, everyone should stay where they fucking belong, amongst their own people -- much to my discomfort and frustration) (hide spoiler)].Oh yeah ...

On the other hand I don’t need to post a spoiler alert.
If you are somehow unaware of the plot of Jaws, then it doesn’t matter if I give it away, because--I’m sorry to be the one to tell you this--you have Alzheimer’s disease.
Yes, it’s a shame.
But even if you already know exactly what is going to happen, this is still a thrilling, chilling read.
In fact, you should probably borrow some Depends from one of those people who doesn’t know what happens at the end.
Now, for those of you who don’t already know what happens: you have Alzheimer’s.
It’s a shame.
The book is okay, mostly sharky fun weighed down by drama at times, but it can't hold a candle to the greatest shark movie ever made.So. Truth time.
I was a very imaginative child.Who knew as an adult I'd enjoy stories about people being eaten by sharks so much?So, I've already said that this can't hold a candle to the movie adaptation.
It just brings up these weird snippy jealousy issues and I kept wanting to be like, "You know...there's still a shark that's going to eat your tourists."Jaws the book has good moments, but if you've seen the movie I'd say you aren't missing anything.
I have seen the movies several times since and had forgotten how different the book was from the movie.
The others except for Quint seem to be very different.
The shark is the main character in the film but in the book, it is the complex relationship between island lifer Brody, his (former) socialite wife, and a younger man named Hooper.
The shark plays much more of the setting than a character.
The movie focus on action and the shark in the book Quint, the shark hunter, doesn't appear until the end of the book.

Peter Benchley absolutely nailed the shark attack scenes; I mean that sincerely.
The key, I think, lies in this Robert Shaw quote (himself a novelist and the man who turned Quint--a chilling but one-note psychopath in the book--into one of the most iconic characters in film history): "JAWS was not a novel.
Maybe I just want to think well of Benchley, who was quite knowledgable about sharks, and who--if the attack scenes were indeed penned by him--could truly write.
But if you want the other elements of a good story--you know, like characters you don't want pureed and used as chum--check out a different book.
The film too.
How scary was this book when it came out.
The Deep too although not really a scary book more an adventure.
I think Peter Benchley was not happy with the legacy the film left behind.
The Great White was already hunted severely and after the award winning film was released I think it more than trebled.
It goes against the respect Peter Benchley has for the oceans and its inhabitants.
Anyhow the film is great but the book is better.
In the book the scientist Hooper dies.The cage comes back up with a leg in it.🐯👍
Starts well enough for you to think it’s going to be great. It’s not. It’s just ok. Time hasn’t been kind to this book and I think Spielberg, when directing the film, has done well in leaving out some parts of the story, not because they’re the worst ones but because they’re just pointless fillers written down on a failed attempt to add some humanity to the characters.
He doesn't fear.”I read Jaws when I was teenager, and of course I’d already seen the movie countless times.
I still liked Hooper, even if I think the writer wants us to dislike him - I felt bad for what happened to him on the pages in the end.“The past always seems better when you look back on it than it did at the time.
Brody shone in book form as well as he did in the movie – a reluctant hero who puts aside his own personal safety to save the life of his town.
Hands down one of my new favorites. So much scarier and in depth am than the film. Check out my full review on my Booktube channel at http://YouTube.com/PeterLikesBooks
And while I suspect Benchley inserted them in there in order to develop characters and give them depth, they don’t really do this very well at all.An example of this can be seen in the Ellen Brody/Matt Hooper plot:Brody’s wife longs to be a part of the wealthy, summer residents again, and she sees a chance to experience this again when Matt Hooper, a pseudo-acquaintance from her younger years, shows up on the island.
Then, shortly thereafter, Hooper is killed by the shark and Brody literally has a moment where he thinks “I guess I don’t have to worry about whether my wife cheated on me now.” That’s it.
