https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297891.Fog_Magic
Greta finds that an old part of the village, where the houses have burnt down leaving only cellar holes (view spoiler)[ this appears for her as the houses once were and whilst the fog lasts she can visit this village and share in their lives  (hide spoiler)]This was a lovely magical book, for that reason we give 5 stars although it felt it could have been longer and if, like my daughter you like stories with tidy endings and all explained you might feel frustrated.
My mother took care of Mrs. Sauer before her death and as a gift she gave her the three books she wrote, autographed. After my mother moved she passed these books onto me because she knew I enjoyed reading them growing up. It was a treat to re-read them now as an adult.Fog Magic was one of my favorite books as a child. It's a wonderful "ghost story" that I think has gotten better since the first time I have read it.
It creates hardship for the men out on the boats, and it only makes life easier for lobster poachers, but for Greta it is “like the magic spell in old fairytales” or “a magic wall she can step through.” One day Greta’s mother sends her out in the fog to find a cow that has strayed, and Greta discovers that it has wandered towards Blue Cove, a long-abandoned settlement where only cellar holes remain.
But even if her father denies knowing anything about the structure, he does speak to Greta’s anxious mother about allowing the girl freedom to go out in the fog.The next time Greta ventures down Old Post Road in the fog, she meets a brisk woman driving a surrey, who offers her a ride down the other side of the mountain to Blue Cove.
Ive read this a dozen times at least, it was favorite of my mothers and now a favorite of mine. Truly an escape, wonderment but not in a fantasy land, fairies and dragons kind of way. This small girls fascination with the fog takes her back in time...but not very far back, historically speaking, making it all the more tangible. Pick a foggy or rainy afternoon and read this.
This book was absolutely beautiful, and in many ways it reminded me of the 1988 film Paperhouse. Its elements of magic and mystery entwined in a story of friendship, Fog Magic is a book that everyone should read.
It gets the old fishing village just right and has the beautiful, soft and ethereal quality of the fog.Review:When I was a little girl I discovered this book on the shelf of my tiny school library.
While walking one grey, foggy day, Greta discovers that the fog doesn't simply hide her from the world, it also reveals a new world to her.
The fact that Greta can only reach Blue Cove through the fog and that time is different there allows the story to move quickly through a year without being bogged down with day to day details.The story is a simple one, but is enchanting in its simplicity.
One of those awesome atmospheric children's books, with an unusual setting (or at least it was unusual to me)--maritime Canada.
I love this enchanting and magical little book, and decided to treat myself to a first edition (1943) which arrived the day after Christmas, Boxing Day! It reminds me so much of Greenwillow, about another magical little village, another one of my favorite books (can one have too many "favorite" books?!) I lose myself in another world whenever I read these two books.
My favorite thing about Fog Magic is when the fog comes in, Greta saw a different world.
Then Greta found friends on the other side of the mountain called Blue Cove.
Her new friends name was Retha and Mrs. Morrill.
My favorite part of the book was when Retha and Greta were picking berries and it was time for Greta to go home and Mrs. Morrill gave Greta a piece of pie to take home with her.
All in all I really liked reading this book and imagining what it would be like to be in another world.
It made Greta and Retha really sad.
Fog Magic by Julia L.
A wonderful middle grade book featuring irresistable fog as a means for a girl to time travel!
A tale of a Nova Scotia family and their girl who is about to turn twelve, this book explores magical realism and takes us with it as it bends time to give us a peek of the main character Greta’s newfound world.
This is truly a read-again book for its mesmerizing inner story which begs the question of whether we can ever hold on to some of the true magic of our dearest moments of childhood—real or imagined.
It's very old-style, a series of visits from a girl who lives in one island village to the families and village that existed on another part of the island two generations ago (it's now vanished). There's no violence or big action, just interactions between people.And I can't really complain about why I didn't like it without spoiling the end. I apologize!
Despite the title and the magical device of the fog allowing time travel, this book isn't really much of a fantasy -- it is about everyday life, family relationships, and the bittersweet experience of growing up.
A childhood favorite.
Because of its oldness, the gray medal, and its shortness (I was into giant 500-page fantasy books back then) I decided to give it a go.It was an odd story - a girl walks freely between her island's past and present - but unpredictable and atmospheric and mysterious in that way that makes it feel anything can happen.
At first I was bored due to the lack of plot (it takes the shape of a slice-of-life), but as Sauer dropped little clues that linked the two worlds together, I slowly became enmeshed in it, and began to feel like this was a "second world" for me to live in.
I understand the ending is a sore point for some readers, and I think I can describe the problem vaguely enough to not spoil it badly, but I'll put some spoiler tags around this anyway: (view spoiler)[Just before the end, it basically characterizes the foregoing dreamy wonders of the book as childish--someone actually uses the phrase 'put away childish things.' But at the very end we're also told it's stuff someone can revisit again and again, meaningfully, for their whole life.
This book was recommended by my mother in law after I noted how pretty the fog was while at her house for Christmas. It's a young adult novel, written in 1943. It's about a Nova Scotian girl who discovers that when the fog rolls into her fishing village, she can actually visit the neighboring village--which has been gone for decades and in her present life is just a bunch of cellar holes. It's a great story for those of us who love nostalgia (and fog).
There's something peaceful and gentle about this book, much like the nature of the fog itself. While most of Greta's little seaside village grumbles when the fog rolls in, Greta is drawn to it. On her frequent walks, she often goes through a deserted village... only in the fog, it's not so deserted anymore. Somehow, through the mist of the fog, she has stepped back in time. The story is a wonderful escape, worthy of the awards it earned when it was first printed in 1943.
This is a lovely little book. I read it as a child and it stayed with me--every time I see fog I wonder if I could walk into it at just the right time and find a different world. I found it again in a box of books I had stored away and was glad to see it was as good as I remembered. It's well-written, and doesn't talk down to the young readers for whom it was intended. And any book that stays with you for 40+ years deserves 5 stars.
I've loved this book for years, and it didn't let me down now either. While the end speeds up and comes too quickly, the book itself is still eerie and magical, and makes me want to live on Nova Scotia (or whatever island it's set on that's all foggy). Read this one with a girl who's a quiet, magic-lover.
I found this book on my second grade teacher's shelf and absolutely fell in love. The story completely grabbed me -- enough so that I read it a second time later on and still think about to this day.
An only child who loves the fog and lives in Nova Scotia by the sea circa 1940 (although it could have been earlier; there are minimal references to cars and that's about it) ...
it has to be good.
But, it falls short.
This reads like an early draft ready to be developed.
A little more depth to the characters.
A little more to the plot.
(view spoiler)[Anthony is important to the enchantment of the tale, yet his story is left dangling.
(hide spoiler)]p 24: "It's the things you were born to that give you satisfaction in this world, Greta.
my favorite part was when Greta was given the persian kitten as a gift for her twelfth birthday. my least favorite part was when Greta couldn't go back to her friends in Blue Cove again after her twelfth birthday. I found the story a bit boring.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.On foggy days, 11-year-old Greta is able to travel back in time and visit the long-lost village of Blue Cove.
Rather, the universality of the knowledge that all children grow up makes it a timeless read.Setting plays a major role in this book, and Sauer does a beautiful job of bringing the real world and the world of Blue Cove perfectly to life.
The age of this book makes it somewhat difficult to find, and more difficult yet to sell to kids, but for those readers who like quiet, complex reads, this will be a special find.
I thought this was a pretty darn good book - and what to expect from 1944, the year that also brought awards to Rufus M.
and Little Town on the Prairie?!This book really is magical, but it's a ghost story as well.
I thought that all the little stories throughout the book would tie in together at the ending, but really they stood on their own and had little to offer.
or Little Town on the Prairie or even Johnny Tremain, but this book fits nicely with the others in that year.
I really enjoyed this book although it had a few flaws.I loved that it is beautiful written, you get lost in the language of Greta's Little Valley and where she "travels to by fog" - I loved the characters, especially her father (I wish there had been more of him) and the cat.
It covers some topics lightly like the consequences of war, growing-up, & time-travel (some reviews call it is a ghost story, but it is not**)The negatives, some "stories" weren't tied up, there is a significance to the number 12 I didn't really get, and the ending was a little vague.
Terrific prose and imagery are the hallmarks of this fine little novel.
A child discovers she can travel back in time when the fog is thick enough and for an eventful year she makes several visits to the village of Blue Cove [the story takes place in Nova Scotia, Canada during WWII].
She listens to the stories of the people from Blue Cove and comes to love them.
In the end this is a sweet novel about growing up and learning to accept life's little gifts - friendship, love and sharing - are enough to last a lifetime.
Gretta lives in a village where fog is frequent fact of life.
Most people hate it, as it means things never dry and makes it far more dangerous for the sea-fearing menfolk, but Gretta has always loved the fog.
She is out walking one day when she sees buildings in the fog.
A woman in a buggy picks her up and takes Gretta to the village of Blue Cove, a village that is deserted in Gretta’s time.
This is a sweet, somewhat enchanting fantasy tale of a girl who is able to visit another place in another time.
I read it in school, and it had me going out on foggy days, hoping to find my own magical village.
I never did find houses or friends in the fog, but I did do a lot of exploring and discovering, which was almost as good.
Just finished re-reading the book, and the richness of the story, as well as the life lesson, that each part of our lives is a season, and though things change as we grow, and we leave some things behind, new things will come into our lives.This is a truly timeless book that I am thrilled to share with my daughter.
I wonder whether quite so leisurely paced a children's book could be published today; its impact is quiet, slow, and haunting like the fog. It fulfills that common wish of childhood to gain entry into a magical other world. If you enjoy lovely observations like "A dress you've worn and been happy in always gathers in and holds a sort of fragrance of happiness" and details of another world such as Sunday gloves washed and hung on the bars over the stove to dry, then this is a book for you.
Great little read! Really liked the blending of periods with the presence of the fog, which tends to give everything a mystical sort of feeling. The author creates a visual of daily life in a prior time that made me feel like I was there observing it all with Greta. Would highly recommend this book to tweens.
