https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223635.Mephisto
The novel adapts the Mephistopheles/Dr Faustus theme by having the main character Hendrik Höfgen abandon his conscience and continue to act and ingratiate himself with the Nazi Party to keep and improve his job and social position.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه دسامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: مفیستو: داستان یک پیشرفت شغلی؛ نویسنده: کلاوس مان؛ مترجم: فرزانه شجاعی آزاد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، مروارید، 1392، در 366 ص، اندازه 21/5 در 14/5، شابک: 9789641912217؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آلمانی سده 20 مکتاب «مفیستو» روایتی است از پیشرفت شغلی هنرمند، طی ده سال، و براساس زندگی واقعی بازیگری، به نام: «گوستاو گروندگن» نوشته شده است، که در دوران اقتدار «نازی»ها در آلمان زندگی می‌کرد.
I greatly underestimated this book.
Now I really wish I had read it much earlier.Klaus Mann had a talent for writing satire, and even just reading the first chapter of Mephisto leaves no question about why Mann had to emigrate and why the book was published in the Netherlands and elsewhere in 1936 but remained unpublished in Germany until much later - 1956 (in East Germany).
To gain everything and to lose your soul.
Sacrifice for moral reasons is something we like saying but rarely do .
The main character in Mephisto Hendrik Hofgen, knows what kinds of people that the Third Reich are but, make selfish justifications for his entanglement with the far right.
Hendrik loses his wife, mistress, his friends from the theater and his art because the third reich don't want art but, propaganda.
I wish this book was written after 1945 because I would like to know what justifications Hendrik Hofgen would made after Hitler's Germany ended.
Written during Mann's political exile in Czechoslovakia, Mephisto is a withering literary accusation blasted at the commonplace moral capitulation that enveloped German society in the early thirties and allowed itself to be stirred to a fever pitch of aggression.Gründgens, thinly disguised in the text as Hendrik Höfgen, is introduced as a struggling member of a German acting troupe, a believer in the communist cause and involved in a love affair with a black expatriate who indulges his fetish for being dominated during sex.
I had seen it because Méphisto was played by Klaus-Maria Brandauer (cover photo) the greatest alive German actor with the genius Bruno Ganz (he plays in Cartel, the last Ridley Scott).The film incited me to read the book, but at that time it was not easy to get it (Amazon did not existed)It is certainly a book which speaks about homosexuality but this is not only that.
To further go would be an error because at the bottom the truth is more trivial.Hendrik Höfgen is a good actor but he is sublime in only one role Méphisto, the devil.
Mephisto is a particularly scathing novel published in 1936 by Klaus Mann, the son of the celebrated Thomas Mann, after he was exiled to Amsterdam for...well, pretty much everything about the man demanded immediate exile by the regime.
Awesome.)Everything about this novel feels like it was published well after the war when the true horrors were well known.
It was really, really easy to write a scathing novel about Nazi Germany in the 50's, 60's etc...not so much in the 30's.
The story itself, of a low-class actor who chooses career ambition over moral duty, feels very much like Mother Night (one of my favorite reads this year).
The dark and salutory tale of Hendrik Hofgen, an obsessive actor in pre-war Berlin who, when the Nazis come to power and his friends opt for resistance or flight, chooses to ingratiate himself with Goering when the latter enthuses over his performace as Mephistopholes in Faust.
He is sucked into a corrupt and self-destructive world and realises too late that he himself has effectively sold his soul to the Devil.
I read this after watching the German movie of the same name starring Klaus Maria Brandauer in an electrifying performance.
Klaus Mann, son of Thomas Mann (The Magic Mountain, Death in Venice, etc) killed himself in 1949.
Completely amazing. Maybe the best European novel about the rise of fascism in the 30s?
Hendrik is the lead actor in a small provincial theater in Germany.
Like many, he doesn't believe that the forces of unreason, anti-reason, are about to succeed.As Hendrik's career begins to rise, so does Hitler's.Hendrik tries to maintain his own political beliefs and contempt for fascism within the power structure that now controls Germany.
Klaus Mann had to leave Germany after In 1933 Klaus being a part of a political cabaret, the Pepper-Mill, which the Nazi's became aware of.
It is also a mesmerizing portrait of a man who would, under normal circumstances, lived an unremarkable life forced into making critical decisions as to whether to honor his beliefs or achieve success.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mephisto...ALthough it is abouot Nazism, directed by this brilliant Hungarian director, there were many allegoires to the system in the countries of the Eastern Bloc.The book and the film is about an actor who sells his integrity to the Nazis for possibility of acting and becoming a theatre director.The film showed the dilemma, the struggle.
The main character starring Klaus Maria Brandauer as Hendrik Höfgen is an opportunist, vain, unprincipled, but a brilliant artist who knows he can only act in his native German language.
Klaus Mann was too personally involved to write the book well.Get the movie, it is brilliant!
Set in Germany prior to the election of Hitler, the main character (based on the author's brother-in-law, Gustaf Grundgens) is completely ignorant of the political atmosphere around him.
As his friends leave Germany to get away from censorship and fear of persecution, Grundgens goes about this own business, taking advantage of the new job opportunities opening to him as more talented people leave.The election of Hilter occurs to Grundgens as an afterthought.
He is surprised that short, ugly, angry man who shouts too much was elected, but as it doesn't presently concern him, he doesn't care.
Wow, this was a powerful read.
Lately, I've been quite interested in the Weimar Republic & the days of the rise of nazism.
It's so scary to read about, but it's also an interesting look into the very darkest parts of the human soul.
This novel is above all a novel about power hunger & how you will sacrifice absolutely everything to stay on top - your dignity, your friends, your pride, your art & above all yourself.
I cannot recommend this enough!
Pero el tiempo en que suceden los hechos en el prólogo, alrededor de 1934, son posteriores a la época en la que empieza a narrarse la historia desde el primer capítulo.
Además de Hendrik Hofgen, quien es el centro de la historia, existen muchos personajes importantes que representan tipos en cuanto a ideología e intelectualidad, como los actores Otto Ulrich, Nicoletta, Hans Miklas, la señora Herzfeld, Bárbara Bruckner, el director Kroge, Juliette (Princesa Tebag), el escritor Casar von Muck y los semidioses nazis (expresión obviamente sarcástica del autor) el Presidente del Gobierno - el Gordo - y el Ministro de Propaganda - el Cojo -, entre otros.
Brilliant first chapter.
Read for my book club; had seen the movie when it first came out (early 80s). I thought it was compelling with a well-paced story, but I didn't think the writing was particularly strong (though it might have been the translation). The characters were really well-drawn and though I had a sense of dread as the lead character shape-shifted to suit the politics of the time, I read along with a slight detachment.
خواننده صبور میطلبه...۳/۵ در واقع
Höfgen is accepted as a thinly disguised version of the actor Gustaf Gründgens, Mann's brother-in-law and friend whose real-life career under the Nazi regime mirrors that of the book.
In a final (real-life) irony, Gründgens' 1956/57 portrayal of Mephistopheles in Goethe's Faust is still considered to be the definitive interpretation of that role.The book reflects Klaus' troubled relationship with his father, Thomas; the concept of the artist sacrificing for their art is common - what is less so is the impact of that sacrifice on others (Thomas Mann admitted he avoided 'normal' emotions to focus on his work).
The music theory sections in Doctor Faustus on the other hand were absolutely breathtaking (I felt the same for the small descriptions of music related to Hanno in Buddenbrooks as well) – which they needed to be, as they are in large part key to a lot of the success of the work.It would be unfair to compare the actual writing of the two books, as I consider Thomas Mann to be probably one of the five greatest writers from the 20th century, so I’m not going to.
Scott Fitzgerald’s Great Gatsby and it is a tragedy above anything I’ve ever read.Klaus Mann tells the story of a talented actor Hendrik Höfgren from his days in Hamburg during the Weimar Republic to becoming a Senator and the head of the State Theatre during the Nazi reign.
By doing so he in the the most terrible way betrays his friends and his ideals.I read Mephisto for first time few years after it was finally officially published in Germany in 1981.
He took his own life in Cannes, France, in 1949.If you want to know how the Nazi’s could take power in Germany and how they could get so many Germans behind them you should read this book.
Throughout the story the main protagonist has some inner, moral struggles but he is willing to sacrifice everything, even his friends, mistress and marriage, to make it big time.In the true Mann tradition, a lot of characters are based on real people, and it takes little brainpower to figure out Klaus is taking the piss out of Gustaf Gründgens, a well known German Actor.The fact that this book was banned in Post Nazi Germany for decades is harder to understand, and it shows that the Germans don't like to be reminded that a lot of people didn't mind collaborating with the Hitler crew.
Although I haven't picked this up since 1996, it is one of my favorite books.How easily some learn to embrace what they once abhorred when it effects them personally.Written in 1937 Mephisto gives a view of the rise of the Nazis before the subsequent Nazi mythology grew after the war.It is a portrait of Mann's brother-in-law which resulted in a long libel trial and the book being banned in Germany.
Fascinating read, the Big Issues neatly weaved with the inter-texts.
I felt it a bit structurally flawed -- maybe I just mean too predictable -- but really insightful.
I think there's much more to the central character than the narrative presents; when the narrative steers towards presenting Hendrick as a cliché, a case study in the sort of lost soul that would sell himself to the Nazi regime, I think it seems to at the same time present something more than that.Not to mention, I was shocked at how well Mann understood the Nazis, even that early (1936/7), how much he knew.
That might just be my ignorance, but I found that intriguing.
Ich bin voller Bewunderung für Klaus Manns scharfen, gnadenlosen Blick auf eine Gesellschaft, die mit Verblendung und Opportunismus das Naziregime ermöglichte und am Leben hielt. Über 80 Jahre nach seinem Erscheinen ist Mephisto weniger als Schlüsselroman über den Schauspieler Gustaf Gründgens interessant denn als typologisches Bild der Entstehung einer totalitären Gesellschaft - und hat damit traurige Aktualität in der heutigen Welt.Mehr dazu in meinem Blog:https://buchuhu.wordpress.com/2017/09...
I think the story behind this semi-biographic novel is more compelling than the story told here. I'm not sure if this is the translation's problem or not- I would damn well make sure I read a good translation of this- I read the edition of the book pictured. I feel that the author stumbled upon a great real life situation to test moral boundaries against, but this journey is detailed much better in the novel, 'I Served the King of England" by Bohumil Hrabal, a Czech writer detailing the same turning of a moral code Mephisto attempts to illustrate.
Very good book presenting a man making a career in diffcult time of Nazi rule in Germany in 1930s. It shows an artist that had to make a choice - accept the Nazi doctrine to keep the position on stage. Hendrik Höfgen becomes a character similiar to Dr Faustus from Thomas Mann's book Doktor Faustus (published in 1947 - 2 years before Thomas Mann's son, Klaus, commited suicide).
An incredible spectacle of betrayal of self and the feeding of evil by simply dancing in its company. Mephisto is one of the few books that taps the human soul in a way that left me crying after putting the book down. The images are haunting and the almost glow in your mind after finish even a chapter.
brilliant, one of the best books I've read. A journey of a man who is selling all of his higher ideals for fame, subsequently loosing himself in the process. An excellent depiction of pre-war Germany and the rise of the Nazi regime.
Wieder so eine GR-Empfehlung eines Buches, das ich vor vielen Jahren gelesen habe. Es gefiel mir ganz gut, aber leider fiel doch an der ein oder anderen Stelle allzu stark auf, dass es sich um persönliche Abrechnung handelt.
Ανεξήγητα σε μερικά βιβλία η βαθμολόγηση μου είναι τσιγκούνικη! Το ΜΕΦΙΣΤΟ θα έπρεπε να το έβαζα τουλάχιστον 4. Ισως γιατί πάντα είμαι καχύποπτος απέναντι στην Γερμανική λογοτεχνία
Thomas Mann gets all the credit in the family but Mephisto is one of the best Third Reich-era "novels" that exists.
