https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240485.Storm_of_Steel
Jünger has here provided at least one example: the Germans simply didn't have the resources--munitions, for example--that the Entente Powers had.
This incident, like all our other encounters with the Britishers, left us pleasantly impressed by their bravery and manliness.In the Introduction to the book translator Michael Hofmann quotes Gide who wrote in his diary: "Ernst Jünger's book on the 1914 War, Storm of Steel, is without question the finest book on war that I know: utterly honest, truthful, in good faith." I would agree.
It is the finest book on World War I from the German perspective that I know.
Ernst Jünger is an insurance actuary’s worst nightmare — he smoked, drank, experimented with drugs, served in two world wars, sustained multiple injuries, and yet died only one month shy of 103.
But Ernst Jünger was a born soldier, and therein rests the core of the book’s particular power.
For Jünger, war didn’t destroy young men — it strengthened them, albeit at a steep price.
Jünger gestures only vaguely at the strategic momentousness of the Michael Offensive and gives it a more fabulous title: “The Great Battle.” Storm of Steel stops in September 1918—not with Germany’s impending defeat, but with Jünger’s own apotheosis as a warrior.
In 1943, in Paris, he was told the news about the extermination camps, and finally reached the conclusion that he had been staving off since the collapse of the Weimar Republic he had helped to undermine: one of the men whose being had been transformed by their experience of the Great War was Adolf Hitler.
This is probably the cheeriest war memoir ever.
While Jünger occasionally remembers to throw in the the requisite "oh the horrors of war" comment, most of the time it is clear he is having a blast.
Based on his other hobbies (travel, hunting, joining the French Foreign Legion, dangerous political conversation, taking all available drugs) he seems to have quite the adrenaline junkie.
Kind of amazing that he lived to over a hundred.
And then possibly your car, which he may crash while trying to hunt mountain lions without a license.
Where Sassoon and Manning lament the loss or corruption of their entire generation, Jünger merely comments with apparent approbation that ‘over four years, the fire smelted an ever-purer, ever-bolder warriorhood’.It's all very slightly off-putting; and the tone is quite hard to judge, despite the newness of this translation from Michael Hofmann.
He makes the intriguing and, I think, convincing suggestion that Jünger's book has a ‘natural epic form’, as opposed to comparable accounts in English which are ‘lyrical or dramatic’.
Funny how everyone has heard of ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, but hardly anyone recognizes that other major German-language battlefield novel of the First World War, STORM OF STEEL, in German In Stahlgewittern (1920).
Of course, ALL QUIET is resolutely pacifist while STORM is not -- it's an in-your-face battle story, not unlike Norman Mailer's breakthrough novel The Naked and the Dead twenty-six years later.
It is relatively apolitical, unlike author Ernst Jünger's later leanings: in the late Twenties, when Germany's Weimar Republik was obviously struggling, he opined that he hated Democracy "like the plague" and remained an ardent Nationalist.
War means the destruction of the enemy without scruple and by any means. War is the harshest of all trades, and the masters of it can only entertain humane feelings so long as they do no harm. Ernst Jünger was a born soldier: neither risk-averse nor foolhardy, able to command the loyalty of others and to follow orders without question, able to fight without malice and kill without scruple. These are his captivating memoirs of his service in the First World War.The consensus of posterity regardi
A born soldier, he felt right at home.As regards the basic experiences of the war, Jünger’s memoirs cover all the bases: bloody hand-to-hand combat, endless artillery shelling, taking cover in shell-holes and scrambling to put on one’s gas-mask, swarms of flying shrapnel and bullets, and death forever prowling.
In any case it takes a special kind of person to compare an artillery bombardment to “a witch’s cauldron,” or to motivate oneself in battle by quoting a verse from Ariosto.The ending of the book contains, in brief, some of Jünger’s thoughts on the significance of the war.
One man's slip of the hand had got the whole titanic machinery of war rolling."During his days in the trenches, Junger and his troops would face French, Indian, and Scots regiments at various times.
Junger ponders that himself, in regarding a Brit soldier he had killed (p.219): Outside it lay my British soldier, little more than a boy, who had been hit in the temple.
Junger is an excellent writer and this book is one I will read over and over again, it's just that good.
Junger is wounded six times and comes away with twenty serious scars (entry and exit wounds) and each one, if his body contorted another way or if the trajectory of the shell or bullet had been just a little different this book never would've been written, let alone read 100 years later.
A century later, it's still read because it's gripping, so clearly describes the storms and stresses of battle and the times of quiet in-between, and it does so without much theorizing or hand-wringing or editorializing about humanity.
Tevfik Turan çevirisiyle sonbaharda yayımlıyoruz. Müthiş bir kitap!
Nationalism is just the worst though, I really have a hard time standing it at any level...Another quibble against Junger is he does seem to find some primeval enjoyment in war, there is a joy and celebration of war that is a bit scary/crazy to me.
The writing is too good, and I do like how he presents things, overall he is a very good nuanced thinker and writer (in spite of the critiques I make), so well worth the read if you are interested in this history.I'm curious to learn more about Junger, read more of his works, he seems to have been a complex figure.
A couple of examples: In the final months of the war, Junger's company (about 80 men) is ordered to advance againt the British lines.
In another engagement, Junger is ordered to take 14 men across the no-man's zone in a reconnaissance mission and to capture some soldiers for interrogation.
139).In that same chapter ("In the Village of Fresnoy") we get another glimpse into Junger's idolization of war and the soldier: "There was in these men a quality that both emphasized the savagery of war and transfigured it at the same time: an objective relish for danger, the chevalieresque urge to prevail in battle.
Unsettling memoire from a German officer who fought throughout the first world war. He took thirteen wounds and survived, having fought in many of the key battles on the western front. The book gives a sense of what the war was like, full of monotony, terror, comradeship and blood and guts.A touch vain glorious for my taste, and the author shows little sense of regret. Very matter of fact about death and destruction. I suspect that one becomes inured to death if one faces it every day.
This is an excellent and unusual World War I novel.* It's unusual in that most WWI fiction and memoires are anti-war, dark and furious at the appalling human waste.** Ernst Jünger, in contrast, had a grand time.
We don't get details of grand strategy or the big picture; instead, the text focuses on the immediate experience of life and death on the Western Front.The novel excels at this detail.
(81)We can see certain famous historical details of the war through the narrator's eyes.
(286-7)This reads like science fiction, when humans encounter artifacts of powerful aliens from another world or time.
The war never degrades his sensibility.Again and again Jünger celebrates the fighting prowess of his men.
Excellent book. Vivid descriptions of combat make you feel as though you are there. A counterpoint to the views of Remarque et al. who came out of the war with a far less exalted view of the crucible of war as Junger, not to say that WWI was a 'good war'.
Graves's account is comic and ironic, while Jünger's writing is almost completely dispassionate, even while describing his friends being torn to shreds by British artillery and sniper fire--an example of the so-called Neue Sachlichkeit applied to trench warfare.
He leads one assault after another through curtains of artillery shells (both from the British and from his own batteries), machinegun and sniper fire, and all variety of trench mortars, rifle-grenades, and aerial bombardment.
The one quasi-philosophical moment in the book is on page p.241: "The state, which relieves us of our responsibility, cannot take away our remorse".
STORM OF STEEL offers WWI from a German soldier's point of view, but Erich Maria Remarque it ain't.
All told, author Ernst Junger was shot multiple times, yet would live not only to write this book (and many others) but to celebrate his 103rd birthday (attended by an unusually patient Grim Reaper-in-Waiting).
Junger takes the reader through the trenches of Flanders, the Somme, Cambrai, Langemarck, and many other WWI locales.
His narrative is straightforward and blunt, including many details on soldiers' deaths (British AND German) with a full compliment of gory details.
The war years of Ernst Jünger are filled with gore, drama and bloodshed.
Storm of steel really does not hold back when it comes to describing the gore and stark reality of The Great War.
Ernst's story consists of rapid rises through the ranks of the Imperial German Army.
Ernst's journey takes him through the most awful battles of the Great War, The Somme, Passchendaele and of course Cambrai which was the first time the British tank was used in large concentrations which resulted in huge success, the tanks used were 476 various types which consisted of Mark IV and others.
Of course, as I understand, many are hesitant towards this book, considering it militaristic, that the author through its pages supports the war by treating it as a heroic act.
Φυσικά έχουν κάνει ανάλογες προσπάθειες πολλοί στρατιώτες που συμμετείχαν στον πρώτο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο, όπως για παράδειγμα το κλασσικό All Quiet in The Western Front, σε αντίθεση με αυτές, όμως, που οι συγγραφείς είναι αρκετά αποστασιοποιημένοι, με διάθεση να κάνουν μία περισσότερο φιλοσοφική και πολιτική ανάλυση και να γράψουν περισσότερο λογοτεχνικά, σε αυτό ο συγγραφέας κάθε άλλο παρά αποστασιοποιημένος είναι καθώς είναι ολοφάνερο ότι ακόμα έχει ζωντανή την εμπειρία στο μυαλό του και αυτό τον οδηγεί στη συγγραφή ενός βιβλίου που έχει ελάχιστες αναφορές πέρα από την καθημερινότητα της διεξαγωγής του πολέμου, που δεν έχει καμία πολιτική αναφορά και ο τρόπος γραφής του είναι γυμνός από λογοτεχνικά στολίδια.
This is an account of one German soldier's experience in World War I.
Junger was an extraordinary observer who kept a diary from the first day of the war to its conclusion.
His was the first such soldier's account to be published after the war.
An eerie place, especially at night, when the moon cast moving shadows through breaks in the clouds, and the sounds of the rushes and the murmuring water were joined by others less easily accounted for.His entire enlistment was in France.
"Disturbingly self-aware." Killing did not trouble Junger too much - his ability to move through absolute carnage on an industrial scale cannot but fascinate.
Junger stands in vivid contrast to the ranks of writers who rejected the war and everything it stood for; he found it a positive experience and did not agonize over his experiences.
Pointedly, unlike many writers that did agonize over World War I, he lived through World War II and the Cold War to see the reunification of Germany, passing on to the Wagner fest in the sky at a very well seasoned 103.
His deadpan, factual account of what the war was like for him is riveting & horrific.
He describes what trench warfare was like, the victories, defeats & deaths.
He also describes the boredom, the terror & the conditions.
Often times horrible conditions are described more by the thin assets of the situation, such as getting a pair of good, woolen socks from a captured bunker or being lucky enough to only pick up some shrapnel.The version I read was Junger's 4th or 5th version of this book.
Free download in German available at Project Gutenberg.The train stopped at Bazancourt, a small town in Champagne, and we got out. Full of awe and incredibility, we listening to the slow grinding pulse of the front , a rhythm we were to become mighty familiar with over the years.
(2-3) Ein banaler Roman. Sprachlich gewandt schildert Jünger die subjektiven Kriegserlebnisse seines Helden. Es findet sich keine Kriegsverherrlichung- es ist aber auch kein Antikriegsbuch.
Cea mai bună mărturie despre Primul Război Mondial citită până acum. Excelent, recomand!
Forget Remarque; this is the most important German account of the Great War that I've read. It's scary stuff; Jünger's clinical detachment in regard to the carnage in service of the cult of the warrior shows in itself why it wasn't the war to end all wars. In terms of his international acclaim, his time table of December 1914 to summer 1918 which allowed him to ignore issues of "frighfulness" at the beginning and the "stab in the back" at the end I suspect is the only thing that made this story acceptable. Some people are just lucky, eh?
Out of the maelstrom of World War I emerge scenes which could have come straight from Dante's Inferno.
Jünger's great book calmly conveys the mysterious attraction of war, the exhilaration of battle, and the undeniable glory of brave men.
But he also describes the scenes of soldiers preparing for battle as though they were "some terrible, silent ceremonial that portends human sacrifice."#13 TBR Busting 2013This audio version is an overdramatic rendition, quite sickening really.
A book I recommend but with a caveat...I'd say be prepared for a memoir of day to day war.
If you read the introduction (and I recommend you do) you'll find some insight and some commentary.
The edition I read went with the author's words and Michael Hoffman translates and does an introduction.
Mr. Hoffman notes (among other things) that at times Junger uses the wrong word in the text.
He does a very good job of giving the feel of war (even though this takes place in WW I).
Interesting to me as this is World War I.
Ernst Jünger's account of his years fighting as a German soldier on the Western Front during World War One is one of the most graphic I have ever read in terms of descriptions of injuries and violence.
That said, much of a soldier's life is routine and boring, and Jünger covers this aspect too.I was surprised by Jünger's matter-of-factness.
That said, anyone seeking to gain an insight into the experience of a front line soldier during World War One will do well to find a better account.
I am glad I read it, not particularly for any information it bestowed upon me about the war (there's not much), but more for giving me the flavor of what WWI was like from a first-person perspective.
Particularly, the first-person perspective of a person who DIDN'T feel like it was the war to end all wars: in fact, he expresses chagrin at the very idea that war would end, because he considers it an essential proving ground for the things he values.
On the other hand, I probably could have got this idea just fine if I'd stopped 1/3 of the way through.
