https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14084.The_Magic_Barrel
The Book of Job in Harlem, NYC.
Take Pity ****A man wants to help a poor, embittered widow who suffered her whole life, but she refuses to accept his help for herself and for her children.
The man feels powerless and frustrated ; he didn't expect offering help to a friend could be this tough.
The prison ***A man's life can be his prison.
The last Mohican **A man who travels to Italy to study the painter Giotto, is being harassed by a poor, jewish refugee.
The loan **A man asks an old friend for a loan.
So inside and behind and underneath Malamud's stories I feel my New York, even when they travel.And inside and behind and underneath all of these stories is also the Holocaust.
The escape never succeeds as planned, but sometimes there is an intrusion of unreality, an escape unlooked for, a modest little god apologetically climbing down from the machinery, bringing a cobbled together miracle.In my favourite story, 'The Angel Levine', the divine literally enters to intervene in the life of a man whose misfortunes are piled high on him.
When asked why god sent a black angel to him, Levine only says 'it was my turn to go'.
Superb, beautifully crafted stories of marriage brokers, lovelorn shoemakers, angels and innocents abroad.
Nearest to my heart was A Summer's Reading, in which a high school dropout gets no respect til one day he tells a neighbor that he will read 100 books in one summer.
The story ends with this wonderful paragraph:One evening in the fall, George ran out of his house to the library, where he hadn't been in years.
There were books all over the place, wherever he looked, and though he was struggling to control an inward trembling, he easily counted off a hundred, then sat down at a table to read.
Treze histórias sobre gente pobre e humilde - na sua maioria judeus - que lutam pela sobrevivência, ou por um pouco de felicidade.
Histórias tristes de gente a quem a vida não sorri, contadas de uma forma terna e comovente..
Um homem que, tal como a figura bíblica de Jacob, trabalha durante anos, a troco de muito pouco, por amor à filha do seu patrão...;.
Um velhinho que sofre uma ordem de despejo do seu senhorio...;.
Como uma pequena mentira pode impedir a felicidade...;.
As penas de um jovem que (não) lê...;.
O preço a pagar por quem compra fiado...;.
I personaggi che Bernard Malamud ci presenta nella sua prima raccolta di racconti non possono essere propriamente definiti degli eroi, eppure sono tutti in qualche modo dei combattenti, impegnati in una lotta costante con la vita.
C'è il vecchio Kessler, che si batte per non essere sfrattato; Tommy, un ragazzo pieno di sogni che vorrebbe sfuggire al tedio e alla miseria del proprio quartiere; Carl Schneider, che corre da una parte all'altra di Roma alla ricerca di un appartamento per sé e la sua famiglia; Henry Levin, che fa di tutto per conquistare la bella ragazza dell'isola del Dongo.
They would be perfect for the classroom setting, where teacher-led discussions can spend big chunks of time teasing out meaning from the text, volleying interpretations and possibilities.
You don't know what you got till it's gone, and so forth.If I had read Malamud's National Book Award–winning collection The Magic Barrel in such an atmosphere, we probably would have talked about how several of these stories, written in the 1950s, contain grief-stricken echoes of the Holocaust, his Jewish characters victims of a kind of identity-based PTSD.
Riconoscersi nella tragedia, poi decidere da che parte stare. Meglio: che persona diventare. Ma diffondere idee moraleggianti, diceva Malamud, è proprio quello che non si deve fare: «Lo scrittore non deve predicare, ma scrivere al meglio delle proprie abilità con l’obiettivo finale di nobilitare l’uomo e combattere le forze di disumanizzazione della nostra società». L’uomo, secondo Malamud, è una creatura misteriosa. Che senso ha, si chiedeva, scrivere un romanzo che non prova a spiegare l’uomo? Che senso ha, scrivere, senza cercare se stessi? https://treracconti.it/bernard-malamud/
It was an old library copy, so old that the publisher was Farrar Straus and Cudahy Inc. At the time I'd never heard of Malamud before, but the cover (designed by Milton Glaser) was striking with its colorful and clunky illustrations of flowers (yellow), chalices (orange), keys (green), stars (again with the yellow) and chairs (again with the green) set against a pink background.
And I like the story embedded in the very book itself: the due date card with names of patrons past.
In pencil on the title page was the exact date the book officially entered the city collection: Aug. 6 1958.
Con "Il commesso" non avevo potuto gustare appieno la potenza narrativa di Malamud: ero stata sopraffatta dall'infinita tristezza del romanzo.Qui, ne "Il barile magico", ho avuto la possibilità di gustarlo appieno. Undici racconti, in cui ogni parola non è scritta a caso. Scorci di vita, resi sublimi dall'abilità di Malamud. E anche se sono tristi, è l'alternarsi dei racconti che la smorza e fa emergere la bravura di questo scrittore.
Every one of Malamud's stories hits the ground running.
Many of the stories tend towards heartbreaking, but there is such an agility to the writing, and so many small surprises that only sometimes does that heartbreak seem too heavy.
As a Jewish writer working not long after World War II, Malamud (and the rest of the world) obviously had some big issues to wrestle with.
The only point I want to make about that is that he deals with this on a small scale, putting a lot of weight behind fairly minor, everyday exchanges.
People don't write short stories with such simplicity and clarity anymore.
The characters, ordinary folks who tend grocery stores, clean buildings, fix shoes, always seem to run up against a single opponent, who may also be well meaning, and serves as the guard between them and their simple dreams.
To pay for a tombstone or support a store.
To write in peace.
These are not grand dreams, which is precisely what makes these stories so heartbreaking and poignant to read, even 60 years later.
Malamud writes with perfect emotional tone in these stories. I didn't care so much for "The Tenant," but I loved these stories. These stories just have this quiet subtlety which lets the emotion ring through in such a natural seeming way. It really is marvelous, absolutely perfect. Haunting, beautiful, human. I could read them again and again.
Antologia di racconti di Bernard Malamud, che, nonostante la forma breve, mostrano i temi principali e cari all’autore.Alcuni davvero interessanti avrei voluto vederli sviluppati di più.
Yet, the story can also be read as a psychological postmodern text, featuring a Salzman, who is not a biblical angel and heavenly matchmaker but the alter ego of a very troubled young man.
Traditional matchmaking is contrasted with passionate love, and the rabbinical student Leo Finkle came to God because he did not love Him. In the end Finkle suspects that Salzman “had planned it all to happen this way”, that the matchmaker manipulated him and pulled the strings in the background to bring Finkle and Stella together.
When I read a whole book of short stories, I feel I am getting interrupted too often and become annoyed.
But Bernard Malamud, whose first two novels have been impressive and made me a fan, won the National Book Award for this collection in 1959, making it "required reading" on my list for that year.
Sometimes My Big Fat Reading Project feels like a college syllabus; in fact it is a self-created one, making it a reading college with one student where the professors are all authors so I don't mind.As it turned out, the stories in The Magic Barrel were amazing.
I'm not entirely sure what to make of this, all because of the ending - it made me question what I thought I 'knew' about the story.
not quite mundane about the story, though I'm not entirely sure what it is.It is the story of Joe Finkle, who is finishing up his rabbinical studies.
Finkle has a hard time deciding whether or not to trust in Salzman's suggestions, and this story follows his up and down opinions about not only Salzman, but also about the choices Salzman offers him.
Malamud was a late bloomer: these stories of longing for a better life, his constant theme, were composed in Oregon, as he looked back on his life as a New Yorker, one who'd been to Italy, burned his early novels in a flaming barrel, grown up in a store that sold small goods for small profit.
Some readers call these stories bleak for their unsentimental rendering of poverty and spiritual hunger, but Malamud works in these elements as does a painter in oils.
No matter how late his start, or how many manuscripts he burned, this man was born to write.
No interruptions -- a rarity -- so I hunkered down and finished the first in a series of National Book Award winning collections of short stories for my book club.
He's a brilliant writer and I learned much reading and re-reading his exquisitely rendered sentences.
Those who write know how painful and difficult is is to construct a meaningful sentence.
Each story in the collection reflects the time in which it was written---socially, politically, and economically, capturing pain, angst, ennui, disappointment in unfulfilled hopes and dreams.
THE MAGIC BARREL.
Bernard Malamud.
****.This was the author’s first collection of short stories.
The title story alone is worth the price of admission.
The recent volume issued by The Library of America includes many of the stories from this volume.
I chose to go back and re-read the original collection.
The simplicity of Malamud’s plots forces the reader to pay close attention to the actors in their roles.
He manages to unveil their basic urges and characters with a few well-defined descriptions of them.
Most of the stories involve various aspects of being Jewish or growing up in a Jewish neighborhood.
(4.3/5.0) Intensely readable with old fashioned roots, Bernard Malamud is like the depressed Jewish grandfather I barely remember having.
The Positioning of the Holocaust in Bernard Malamud’s The Magic Barrel: “O Crime Orribile” What Malamud taps into with this book - a book that is intricate story-by-story as well as a whole - is the Holocaust’s subtly quiet psychological stamp on a Jew, its lingering rather than obtrusive quality, the perpetual but also hushed and distanced positioning of it in the Jewish mind, even just after the war.
More instances where Malamud positions the Holocaust on the edges of the story, rather than as its main thrust, are in lines as simple as Freeman contemplating Isabella earlier on in “The Lady of the Lake,” thinking, “Maybe she had once had some sort of unhappy experience with a Jew?
These 13 stories, mainly about first-generation Jewish immigrants in America, but also about visitors to Italy from America, capture so much of life in a society where one is an outsider---that feeling of "being here but not here", or of living in a country, but not belonging.
They meet frustration, failure, death or disappointment, they are deflected from any purpose they might have once had.
Even when Malamud writes a humorous story, it is filled with underlying doubt in human nature, concentrating on the tendency of people to try to be what they are not.
Throughout the stories, I found the inner monologues and feelings of the characters entirely believable and natural.
Having read The Fixer, I can see how these stories are rudimentary exercises in short fiction, with the quality of being bedside stories or myths.
("Angel Levine" is a Job retelling set in Harlem, NY; "Lady of the Lake" is a Orfeo/Eurydice tale in post-Holocaust Europe; etc.) My favorites: "Lady of the Lake" and "Behold The Key" (the comedic nature of the latter work becomes rare in Malamud's work beyond The Magic Barrel, so I found it refreshing).

A book very much of its time, to its advantage and detriment. While the best stories , such as the magnificent Lady of the Lake, do a great job of exploring what it is to be Jewish in the years after the Holocaust, attitudes to race and gender do not stand up well. And while it’s never less than a pleasure to read, abrupt endings and tricksy sentence structures can leave the reader rather baffled.
Malamud's inaugural, and much acclaimed, collection of short stories, a succession of contemporary (1959) allegories sending tortured souls - Jewish, immigrant, NY-based - in search of the absolution of kindred spirits. Connection, even the ironic or cursory kind, heals - but it's a slippery salve. This is deeply humane work, about the fickle fissures in America's melting pot.
I received this book as a present a while back and, not having heard anything about the writer, I just put it away and forgot about it.
Until lately, when browsing through my not-read books and looking for something short to take my mind off Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow, I took it out, without having any expectations whatsoever.I'm not familiar with Jewish literature or have ever been interested in it, so I really didn't know what to expect.
It may appease more, though, to readers who are more culturally related to Malamud Bernard's experiences.
Not going to get into it too deeply except to say that Malamud is a master of the short story. These stories are all enmeshed in the same themes and setting but each finds new ways to move and surprise. The introduction by Jhumpa Lahiri is also fantastic.
An outstanding collection of short stories. Malamud creates such incredible characters full of flaws and shortcomings and puts them in such desperate situations that you can't help but be totally engrossed in the story.
4 out of 5 for the magic barrel cause it's the only one I read for uni Really interesting style that seems very much like a fairy tale in modern day!
