https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91091.The_Seeds_of_Time
It also has a prescient insight into the power of tabloid media and the power of celebrity (as in Midwich Cuckoos).Pawley's Peepholes is the story I remembered most vividly from my first reading of this collection.
Life is an accident and maybe survival is too.Dumb Martian is good because, finally, a man with no respect for women gets his comeuppance.Compassion Circuit is a very short exploration of the relationship between humans and personal robots.Wild Flower is completely unlike the others, being rather twee, like its title.And after all these years, I think Pawley's Peepholes is still my favourite (though perhaps not the best).

In my youth I liked John Wyndham's science fiction stories, and when I picked this one off a dusty shelf to catalogue it on GoodReads, I decided to re-read it before putting it back.
On the even rarer occasions when I have bought recently-published science-fiction, I've usually been bored, and abandoned the book.
Have I changed, or has the genre changed?At first I thought that I had lost my youthful taste for science-fiction, and that it was probably something one grew out of, but re-reading these stories by John Wyndham showed me that that isn't the case.
I'm tempted to say that John Wyndham's short stories are better than his novels. The ten in this collection range from average to awesome. You've got robots, time travel, space travel, and Martians, all written in Wyndham's accessible British style. A couple of them could easily have been made into Twilight Zone episodes. Seeds of Time won't make you forget Day of the Triffids or Midwich Cuckoos but it's definitely worth a read.
There are very few gadgets in his stories and even when technology is being used – in order to time-travel for example – he doesn’t usually bother to give any kind of made-up science to explain the working; he simply expects his reader to accept it as possible and real.
– a story that addresses the paradoxes inherent in time travel and throws in a nice little romantic comedy along the way.
These stories, the longest of which is thirty pages, each of which starts on the notion of "what if..." are delightfully entertaining, thrilling or disturbing depending on the tone of the particular story.CHRONOCLASM: It's the story of a man faced with sudden knowledge of the immediate and distant future and his willing participation (for good and bad) to see the future play out as it has been described to him.
Though the threat of a temporal paradox is presented, the story ends up playing out as if paradoxes cannot come into being leaving the reader to ponder if man really has as much free will as he thinks he does.TIME TO REST:This is one of three stories themed around Mars.
(Cecilia Flores: About 30 years ago I read a great story about a girl who travels from future to meet her grand grand grand father.
She receives a letter from him when she is 18 years old (or something like that) and in this letter he declare his love to her, so she travels to the past to meet him.
Cecilia Flores: found it!
I asked in this group : "https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/..." and it's a short story by John Wyndham that is included in "The Seeds of Time")Flores is right; it's a great story.
Short stories aren't usually my favourite genre as I find in most books I've read, that they are hit and miss at the best of times.
However, on the whole, I must say that I enjoyed every story in this collection by John Wyndham.
Not only can he write an excellent story, like in The Day of the Triffids, The Chrysalids and others, he has also displayed the knack of telling as interesting a story when using the short story format.
They range from space travel, time travel, mind transference to robot stories.
Every one was interesting, to the point, well-written and enjoyable to read.
This is a short story collection that is, I dare say, much less famous than Wyndham's novels. It is, however, worth hunting down if you like those novels. As is often the case with short story collections, The Seeds of Time shows greater range than all of the author's novels together (although Wyndham was just one of several pseudonyms used by this author and I haven't read any of the others). THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/92...
I particularly liked "Opposite Number", Wyndhams attempt to grapple with the complex subject of parallel universes, and "Dumb Martian" that is quite unusually written from the point of view of the antagonist.To his credit, the author attempts to explode some ridiculously dated views of women in many of these stories.
Then again, in other stories that didn't focus on feminist themes, his own intrinsic prejudices about women linger not far below the surface.
Some of the stories just come across as quite dated and obvious the the modern reader, valuable as little more than historical curiosities but none of them are terrible and probably worth a read, especially to Wyndham fans.
Pretty classic sorts of SF stories here: not space opera, but messing around with the idea of time travel and parallel universes, that sort of thing.
It's easy going, and surprisingly rewarding -- and the stories here aren't quite so much all of a piece with his novels -- they don't share all the same themes as The Kraken Wakes, Day of the Triffids and the Chrysalids.
Less apocalypse, more space travel.
Of course, they're quite all of a piece ish with each other, by virtue of that.
I bought this only because tucked in the pages was a letter from 1973 describing a mad party.
I’m not sure who decided on the order of stories in this collection.
I would have never set the brutally grim “Survival” between the much lighter fare of “Meteor” and “Pawley’s Peepholes”.
Some of the other shifts from whimsy to unblinking brutality cause the reader whiplash over the course of the collection.“Survival” is a brutal story that I was not expecting.
“Wild Flower” is poetic and melancholy.Most of the remainder of the collection is much lighter fare.
“Meteor” is a nice and tiny first contact story, filled with humans who don’t quite understand.
Jimmy collects facts.
What a wonderful collection of short stories. Each story is only a few pages long, John Wyndham is a masterful writer who uses them to showcase a broad repertoire - from the eerie, to the humorous, to the strange. I enjoyed it a lot and can't wait to try one of his novels.
This collection of short stories is a little hit and miss -- John Wyndham may be responsible for some of the greatest concepts in science fiction, but his ability to create rich, believe characters, or write romantic relationships, lacks finesse. "Dumb Martian" was my favourite. There's a shaky, erratic proto-feminism at work in Wyndham -- only occasionally veering off into fear and distaste of the female -- and it's at its strongest here.
I liked the story, though not so sure that you can fall in love with someone once they told you that you are supposed to love them.Time to rest - the earth has blown up and a loner wanders, not ready to settle on mars - I could feel the loneliness of the character Meteor - a ship containing 1000 survivors from an apocalypse land on an unknown planet.
Everyone underestimates her, considering her to be too soft and unable to survive, but she 'showed them' - just goes to show how you cannot judge by outer appearances, people can find inner determination when they have no choice - loved the ending.Fawleys peepholes - tourists from the future make people feel like they are living in a goldfish bowl.
Concepts as fiddly as the many worlds hypothesis and the possibility of jumping between them, or the transfer of personality from one body to another are well explored and you never get bogged down in the (usually brief) technical sections of the works, and the writing drags the plots along at a good pace.All in all, a very fun read, ranging from satirical farce to Gothic horror and stopping off at comic-romance and various different short story forms along the way.
I’ve known for awhile that there’s more to John Wyndham than triffids and Village Of The Damned, but this is the first time I’ve read him in short-story form.
And in some ways, Wyndham’s particular brand of slow-burn keep-calm-and-carry-on science fiction works better when it’s compressed into short form.
There’s a lot of good ideas here, from annoying time-travel tourism and body-swapping duels to an alien visitation with scale issues.
Wyndham has fun with them, but still keeps the human element front and center.
There are a couple of misfires, but for the most part it works, especially when exploring issues like survival and racism.
This small collection of John Wyndham's short stories was published in 1956.
I can't find any info about where and when they were first published, but the style seems post-war 1940s and 1950s to me.
That was a period during which concepts came to be emphasized over adventure in US science fiction, and judging from these stories the same was true in the UK.
There is nothing really radical or innovative about the concepts Wyndham explores here, but I found his writing style relaxed and descriptive.
I've not read John Wyndham before, and will be watching for his novels now.
These are a collection of 10 short stories written by John Wyndham, they cover romance, time-traveling, racism, alien invasion, robots and advanced medical treatments that go horribly wrong. I originally read it years ago; I am renewing my acquaintance with these wonderful tales. Like all short stories some are great and others not so great. My two favourite ones were "Dumb Martian", which is a satire on racism, featuring an Earthman who buys a Martian wife and then goes off to a remote posting; and "Survival", set on a spacecraft marooned by an engine failure in orbit around Mars.
I will never tire of reading Wyndham. His writing is witty, original and thought provoking. The themes and ideas he explores and still relevant today. This book is no exception. With 10 short stories, all of the above come quickly and relentlessly. There were no huge twists or surprises in the stories, it is easy to see where they are leading, but it is the details and atmosphere that kept me reading. Such a good book.
Short Review:A solid collection of sci-fi, some absolute stand-outs (with one or two weaker stories as well). First published in 1956 - whilst the themes date well, some elements (small amounts of 50's sexism for example) mean it does show its age a bit.Worth a read.Full Review: http://uncertaintales.wordpress.com/2...
A wonderful collection of short stories! Wyndham is definitely one on my favourite authors. His stories in this volume are varied in style, setting and subject, but they all have a similar plea for compassion and tolerance in one form or another. I look forward to revisiting these stories again one day.
Of course, it will leave you with questions, but I feel that is Wyndham's intention, of forcing you to connect some of the dots yourself.Time to Rest: As may be suggested from the title, I found this to be a tranquil, and yet absorbing little story of a loner, sailing Earthman on Mars, making stops downstream to provide his tinkering services to local Martians.
To his credit, Wyndham has experimented with the 'time-travelling' premise much ahead of stories that would follow.
It is a little relevant here as a few of the stories have romantic relationships as a key element of the plot.As is often the case with SciFi from an earlier time it's interseting/amusing what he doesn't predict.
3 stars.Time to Rest - story of man living out his life on Mars.
3.5 stars.Survival - story about a bunch of men, and one woman, marooned on a spaceship that's lost its propulsion.
3 stars.Opposite Number - another story mixing time-travel and romantic comedy.
3.5 stars.Pillar to Post - time-travel again but this time it takes place by swapping bodies.
I really enjoyed these stories. They remind me of PKD without the drug induced psychosis elements. I do find the inherent misogyny and racism (against Martians) a bit hard to take but they are a product of their time. Definitely worth a look if you fancy some vintage science fiction.
Old school sci-fi short stories. Each story had a satisfying little twist that was either delightfully dark, admirably clever, or in the best cases, poignant. Two of the stories towards the fell flat, but they were so short that it hardly detracted from the collection.
Silly SF stories. Again I consider that I am no fan of short stories.
Fascinating collection of short stories, all with a ‘twist’.
This is a collection of short stories that has an interesting them of time, whether traveling through it or other forms, this book explores them in intriguing stories.
