https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10453.Skating_Shoes
Whatever the case, this little Staten Island girl didn’t realize how far it was from her reality.) 4) The author spends real time developing the adult characters, but not at the expense of the child characters.
5) The author gives you just enough technical skating details to understand what Lalla is doing…and nothing more.
Both families have that same cozy charm!) 7) Lalla is rude and awful to Harriet at times, and to the other characters in the book, and yet the author presents Lalla in such a way that you don’t completely loathe her.
Streatfeild has the most charming, insightful, compassionate way of describing human interactions. This is my least favorite of her Shoes books so far, mostly because skating offers fewer opportunities than theater to describe the terrifying/magical feelings of auditions and performances (my favorite aspect of the other books). But "least favorite" of the Shoes books doesn't say much - they're all beautiful.
This is also one of the few Streatfeild books that focuses more on friendship than on family relationships.
It certainly contains one of my favorite Streatfeild Nanas: "She did not hold with ice, nasty, damp stuff, but she defied any ice to give a chill to a child who wore wool knitted by herself next to the skin."As a child, I was completely focused on the figure skating and on the Lalla & Harriet relationship, especially when Lalla loses control towards the end.
Like the "Shoes" books, it focuses on a young, underprivileged heroine fortuitously encountering a greatly privileged counterpart and forging a friendship that benefits and develops both lives, surviving jealousy, etc.However, this particular story isn't up to Ms. Streatfeild's own level of achievement.
I believe it's one of the ways we see she's a genius: she can make a fully-dimensioned, relatable human being in a very few words.) and she switches out the main character on us!!!
I've been wanting to reread this for a while and the ice skating at the Olympics pushed me over the edge.
The latter grew out of the former, but as in so many sports, skating is aimed at the spectators these days and the time and precision required for actual figure skating was decided to take too long.
Nowadays, all the skating we see on TV is what was considered free skating in this book.
I can totally see why Harriet turned out to be the one with the skills and temperament to be a figure skater, while Lalla would shine in free skating.This was a lovely trip down memory lane.

The story of spider-like Harriet, recovering from illness, learning how to skate and becoming friends with Lalla Moore, who is destined to be a figure skating star, is one of my favorites. I probably read it for the first time in third grade and at least a dozen times since, including an unplanned reread today. This is a great read on Boxing Day! Here is a link to my review:http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
There were too many situations and even phrases drawn from earlier books and too little actual explanation of what "brackets" or "edge work" was, for people like me who have never ice-skated (or rollerskated, come to that.) In the afterword, the author's son talks of the hours of painstaking research done at rinks--and yet none of that shows up in the text.
I knew a lot of little girls who took dancing classes, baton twirling etc and coud have been contenders--but way before secondary school they were off to the next thing.
What a lovely story!
First published in 1951, this is a story for young girls about a spoilt only child who is destined to become the next skating star who receieves her comeuppance when she makes friends with a poor, ill child who is prescribed to take up skating to improve the strength in her legs.
White Boots explores the friendship between the two girls, their winnings and failures as amateur skaters and the lifestyles of the two very different families.
Streatfeild can write very humorously sometimes, considering this book was written in the 50s.
In general, just a lovely children's book.
Still working my way through the "shoe books" when I can find them (which can be tough). Another lovely story that any little girl would love to read and reread. Gosh I wish I had read these as a child... because “when you read a book as a child, it becomes a part of your identity in a way that no other reading in your whole life does. And I've gotten carried away, haven't I?" Sorry couldn't help the You've Got Mail reference. :)
One of my favorite books as a kid! The story of two girls who become friends as they train together in figure skating, the one because she is the daughter of a famous skater, the other as a way to recuperate from a long illness. I loved everything about this book, the descriptions of the moves they were learning, their clothes, the dialogue . . . and what little girl hasn't dreamed of being an ice skater?! An utterly charming book!
The Johnsons are very hard up, but the doctor knows the manager of the local ice.rink and says he will let Harriet skate for free, she will only have to pay for the hire of the skates and boots.
Even that is too much for the Johnsons to manage, so Harriet's oldest brother Alec does a paper round to pay for the hire or the boots and skates.
Lalla helps Harriet with her skating, and the two girls become friends.
However ,George aside, the Johnson family are delightful, and it is easy to see why Lalla is happy to know them.
Cute story but Ballet Shoes will always be my favorite. This one seemed to have a good start, but drag at the end with little story development. Some might avoid it all together but don't. Though it may not be fantastic Streatfeild is a wonderful story teller and you don't see the like anymore.
This time, coming back to it, I find myself deeply empathetic for poor vivid madamish overwhelmed Lalla, caught in an adult world frozen in memorial to her father, and in love with Harriet's comfortable bustling teasing tumbling family, with her entrepreneurial and industrious brothers, and her splendid, loving mother.
I wanted to see Harriet take her inter-silver and I wanted to see where the brothers' garden plot (literally) went, and I wanted to see Lalla blossom as a performer.
Read this when I was younger hundreds of times, so it has to be one of my favourites :)
I enjoyed that so much -- it was like reading it for the first time, but even better because I was already primed for the satisfying emotional moments, even if I couldn't remember what they consisted of.There's a lot I missed as a kid -- that Lalla is the main character, for example, because Harriet is easier to identify with as a bookish kid who was quiet around strangers.
Like many children of the 1990s, I suspect, I was introduced to the "Shoes" books after my mom saw "You've Got Mail" and bought several of the books at the suggestion of Meg Ryan's character.
It took some time, but I eventually fell in love with "Ballet Shoes" and then "Dancing Shoes"; I also came to enjoy "Theatre Shoes" and "Movie Shoes," though they didn't hold the same special place in my heart.
While the worlds of "Ballet Shoes" and "Dancing Shoes" come to life for me, "Skating Shoes" seemed not quite as fleshed out and the characters not so well-rounded, with the exception of Lalla.
Noel Streatfeild has a very obvious style.In "White Boots", she first introduces us to nine-year-old Harriet Johnson.
Funnily enough, from then, Lalla becomes the main character and stays it until the end of the book.Just like Streatfeild's earlier and more famous book, "Ballet Shoes", "White Boots" doesn't follow your typical Hero's Journey plot.
The story is always changing and is about the characters' progress in, in this case, skating.There's something very realistic about this new approach and I still can't figure out whether or not I'm a fan.
But for now, "White Boots" will always be a classic memory and a wonderful story.
Obviously I'm no longer really the right age for these, and as an adult the particular patterns in the books are all more obvious (the kindly doctor!
the domineering and/or unpleasant mother figure!
the kindly father figure who means well but refuses to stand up to the domineering and/or unpleasant mother figure!
the unexpected child rising from behind to suddenly be the star!) but they're still charming even if they are decidedly from a particular age.
I don't think it's quite as charming as the others I've read though, but I undoubtedly have nostalgia filters on.
I was talking to a friend about books we loved as children and she mentioned the " shoe" series by Noel Streatfeild.
I picked " Skating Shoes" because I loved to skate as a child.
The main character in the book, Harriet, was told by the doctor that she needed to skate to strengthen her legs.
Coincidentally, I was told I needed to skate to strengthen my ankles!
So of course I identified with Harriet right away!
That is where any similarities ended , however, and the rest of the story is packed with interesting characters, sub-plots and plot twists!
A good story!
Ballet shoes was one of my favorite books as a child. It gave a warm-blankety feeling to go back to Streatfeild after many years - a world where people from diverse social classes become friends, unexpected kind patrons help you discover your potential and fulfill your dreams, goodness is rewarded, and well, badness does not really exist. It felt nice. Nice is good.Thinking of reading some Enid Blyton family adventures next.
I mean...this is one of Kathleen Kelly's favorite children's books, so how could I not love it (Kathleen Kelly of the amazing 90s romcom You've Got Mail, if you needed a refresher). And love it I did. It was well written, it was sweet, it was full of heart, it was wonderful.
I somehow missed this one during childhood. Not as precious as Ballet Shoes, but still an enjoyable read with all the Streatfeild hallmarks.
Warm and wonderful, this is a hug of a story about friendship, ambition and family that's dated in the best possible way.
A great Noel Streatfeild; one of my new favorites!!!!Ballet Shoes, Dancing Shoes, and Theater Shoes were and actually still are my favorites by Noel S., but I enjoy them all.
Harriet Johnson, a nine year old girl who “resembles a spider”, has been advised by her doctor to build up strength in her legs through ice skating following a recent illness.
Once at the rink, Harriet becomes friendly with Lalla, a girl of her own age who seems destined for fabulous things on the ice.
In turn, Lalla spends time with Harriet’s family and both girls get a taste of a very different world.
Both girls learn a great deal about themselves, about families, embracing your talents and personality, and the real meaning of friendship.
Then I read Lord of the Rings and wanted to be a Rider of Rohan when I grew up.
My mom bought me this when I was about 9, in response to my father gifting me Dracula, Lord of the Rings and Jane Eyre.
She thought she could get me to read proper children's books instead of the adult orientated choices my father made.
I enjoyed this just as much as when I was a child.
I laughed at the idea of giving a child whiskey after a faint, it seems so far out of time now.
A lovely family story by Noel Streatfeild.
The Johnsons are one of Streatfeild's nicest families.
Every member of the family has their own personality, from George the father trying to do his best for his family while remaining loyal to his selfish and feckless brother, William "Guzzler" Johnson, Olivia the mother keeping the family fed with the dregs from William's estate while keeping her calm good-humour; oldest brother Alec working hard to help his sister do the ice-skating that will build up her strength; Toby the mathematical whizz who works out the best way of keeping the family solvent; Harriet herself, recovering from a long illness and in awe of her skating friend Lalla, and Edward the self-absorbed, handsome, charming and irrepressible youngest, who is sat on regularly by his older siblings in an effort to keep him from becoming a 'cad'.
I did not read this as a child, so my perspective is that of an adult who was also an accomplished ice skater.
This was not a satisfying read.
I only gave it 3 stars because there was some interesting historical content especially regarding skating.
However, the skating content was insufficient to provide any real understanding to readers who are not already familiar with the sport.
For those who know skating, not enough detail was provided to be satisfying or convincing.
As a first time reader, the text seems antiquated.
A very sweet book that I wish the children of the day would read, but probably won't because it isn't action packed with a TV/movie style of writing.
I picked this book because it is a part of the Shoes series which I heard about in the movie, You've Got Mail.
Meg Ryan has lost her bookshop and she is sitting in the new Fox Bookstore watching and listening to customers in the children's section of the store.
Someone is asking about a certain book and the shop assistant hasn't heard of it.
Meg pops into the conversation and tells the customer all about the wonderful series.
