https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250825.Race_Matters
e.g., family, churches, etc., and most importantly it's time to face up to the psychological factors of lost hope and spiritual nihilism that dominate the lives of the poorest and most despairing people.- We need love, self-respect, integrity, leadership, and values that go beyond the commercial values that have come to dominate.- Black folks can't let the struggle simply be about getting black men the kind of power and dominance that white men have, to the detriment and neglect of black women, gay black men, and lesbians, and race identity and black nationalism can't trump moral and social issues of class, poverty, and human dignity.- Black folks shouldn't be hornswaggled into supporting someone like Clarence Thomas who isn't qualified to serve on the supreme court, who doesn't represent black interests, who cynically plays the victim of racism to secure his own position and achieve his own ambition while condemning others for exploiting race...
Cornel West writes a series of essays covering the topics that most affect African-Americans in American culture, such as identity, gender, despair, sexuality, black-Jewish relations, how the political left and right have attempted to bring repair and how they have fallen short, the effects both Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcom X had on the black community and where the African-American community stands today.There is argument that Race Matters is not a scholarly work.
25 years later it is disheartening to realize that this book is still completely relevant.
Also, West takes a much broader and more accurate approach to issues of race, seeing them as a subset of larger economic and political issues.
Economic inequality and corporate power only enable the continued racism and bridging the gap on these larger issues with others equally situated (like most of us) is the only way anything will be different when the book is reissued for its 50th anniversary.On a side note: West's analysis on the Anita Hill/Clarence Thomas debacle is the best I've ever read and it explains much of what happened, even though I lived through all those debates as a baby lawyer.
My great friend and colleague, who is very active in her sorority (the Delta's), and I used to have great philosophical discussions--in our line of work, it was necessary to try and learn as much about people of all different walks of life.
So we would read biographies and essays and a myriad of material to feed our interests.
I preferred West's essay format to Nugent's, but found that some points in each book resonated with me, while others were off-putting--a fact that both Chermaine and I found to be true for both titles.
This is the first Cornel West book I have read, and, in fact, it is the first piece I have read fully on the issue of race.
I had no idea about the origins of the NAACP or the many difficulties faced by black people after the Civil War. I came to this book with many hopes, especially after hearing Cornel West speak in person.
His analysis of contemporary thought on the problems that black Americans face was especially helpful for me, as he charts out a third way to understand these issues apart from conservative behaviorism and liberal structuralism.
I read this book back in 1994, and thought West was right on target most of the time.
Moderate, conciliatory, and thoughtful, West ably dissects superficial thinking and hypocrisy on both the right and left side of the political spectrum.
At the time we had just gone through Reagan and Bush 1 (who scans bizarrely like a moderate Eisenhower Republican compared in retrospect with the current model).
I'd be interested to read what West thinks now, as we stand potentially on the verge of electing a black President (I'll believe that when I see it, though).
i picked this up out of curiosity, i did not know much about cornel west.
i was under the impression he was a scholar.
i'm no scholar, but i know one when i read one.
the best i read in it was the way cornel west sometimes strings words/sentences together in a rhythm.
washington, or (to cover scholars from today) thomas sowell or stephen l.
smith with regard to depth of concepts...except that he's clearly liberal, while joseph c.
smith is conservative (and also not masquerading as a scholar, which is what makes the one book he wrote a more enjoyable read than this one).
I had to read this for a doctorate class.
To sum it up, white liberals are at fault for treating blacks like kids and thinking they need white taxpayers to support them, conservative whites and blacks are at fault for expecting blacks to take on personal responsibility and get an education, not commit crime, don't get pregnant until married and other acts deemed to be "white" which makes the middle class and upper class blacks who do so Uncle Toms, and being black must be the center of a black person's existence even if it isn't.
Oh goodness.
A sharp and eloquent book, marred by a few loose arguments here and there.
The only weak points come at some moments in his reasoning, at which he substitutes a pat conclusion or an unsourced claim for a more carefully planned argument (most egregious when he calls out black conservatives for making conclusions without providing sources and context, then later in the same chapter makes a number of contentious general statements about black conservatives...
without sources or context).
Still: the book is well-written, carefully argued (for the most part), and thoughtfully empathetic.
I so wish I was close enough to Princeton to be able to take a course or two of his there - although I hear he is moving to Union Theological Seminary soon to teach there.Race Matters is a series of lectures exposing and criticizing the moral ethics of racism and many other isms that run side by side with racism.The beginning story from Cornel West's real life experience in preparing this book for publication says it all.
As Bob Marley said - who feels it knows it.Very thought-provoking.
I so admire the man for his openness to debate and his clarity of position and thought.I followed West throughout the run up for President - supportive of Obama but with a critical edge.I'll probably read this book again soon.
I wish I knew more about social justice and the context in which West writes. I sense this to be an insightful work by a brilliant man but am not fully able to grasp its profundity.What I get here is that race does indeed matter. Especially in discussions of race. While seemingly obvious, apparently this point is not as commonly accepted or widely appreciated at it seems it would be, or should be.Definitely worth another read at some point.
Interesting nuanced views.
I was also interested in his discussion of redistribution of wealth that predominantly affects the middle class and not the poor and his short essay on Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill which stood the test of time pretty well.West's essay about black and white sexuality reminded me a lot of some essay I read in college about sexuality as rebellion in Cuba's oppressive regime.
And feminism also talks a lot about the patriarchy's restriction of sexuality.
But it seems universal and pervasive in oppressive regimes all over the world.

It is here, in my mind, that West sets out a new trajectory to deal with the race problem in America beyond the liberal and conservative perspectives.
So in summation, even in our large disagreements, West and I share many profound ideas on the betterment of the racial problem here in America.In short, West here brings a strong intellectual argument to the table: he writes well on the subjects of black sexuality, Malcolm X and black rage, black-Jewish anger, and issues of black leadership and political conviction.
Dr. West writes about the notion of nihilism and intraracism that leads to xenophobia, homophobia, sexism and ableism in my case, in the black community being an indirect result of institutionalized racism and white superiority.
Furthermore, being the "Christian society" that we tout ourselves to be, I always wondered where the ideas of racism and superiority came from because nowhere in scriptures does it even refer to race or suggest that a group of human beings is superior to another group.
In addition, Dr. West talks about race in terms of humanity and how people refuse to deal with race on those grounds.
This book is as applicable today as when it was written. Cornel West analyzes the problem with race relationship in America and offers suggestions. A great for anyone who wants to understand the challenges facing race relations and to seek a path toward the future.
Pretty good insight. A few bits seem a bit outdated, but for the most part, a lot of the information is sadly going to still be relevant at least for most of my lifetime.
West is eloquent and insightful. This book is a fast read and it's essential if you're going to engage in race talk in America.
A sharp and compassionate take on race relations in the U.S. But somewhat dated.
By explaining the nihilistic threat to the existence of the Black Community, he finally gave me words for those feelings of despair that I condemned so often as I was growing up (at the same time as I cursed my parents and myself for having too-light skin): that hopelessness and the constant complaints about the Salvadorean boat-people coming over and taking our jobs, about them not listening to Dad just because he was Black, about having two strikes against us as Black Women, and about how lucky I was to be light-skinned because I would get more job, except that it doesn't always work that way.
West engages in a thoughtful and insightful critique of systemic racial oppression in the United States. I appreciated his brevity and depth of moral vision. Drawing on the influence of the prophetic tradition of black intellectuals allows West to disrupt partisan discourse, critiquing liberal and conservative points of view with a clarion call for justice.
Definitely a book anyone interested in race relations in the U.S. should read.
So many good, reasoned points it was hard to tell that this was written by the same man who endorsed Jill Stein for President in 2016.
For some reason I've been preoccupied with race relations in the US of late, likely due to the overwhelming racial issues constantly cropping up in the politics, the news, and every other outlet of information.
To make matters worse, there's nearly no open dialogue on the topic that could lead to a collective catharsis.
On the other hand, the 'Nobody helped me' argument chooses to ignore inherent opportunities given to some and denied to others based on education, wealth, race, and upbringing.
As someone who is rarely confronted with his own race, it hadn't occurred to me that it can have the same trickle down effect as something like a childhood trauma.
A lot of great, general, indisputable truths about being black that you (if you consciously think about race) have probably wondered, contemplated or, better yet, discussed with others.
Also a great number of truths about how the political sphere affect Black livelihood, especially that of the disadvantaged/poor.
I would have liked his thoughts on who in the Black community today he believes is worth following/listening to, so that I could do just that.Also, I had to keep reminding myself that this book is over 10 years old, although I think it's still greatly needed even today.
Still, watching good sense applied to deeply-felt tensions is a heartening experience.West has a public image as a political purist and provocateur, a thinker willing to open public feuds with Obama and Ta-Nehisi Coates, but in this collection of essays from the early nineties, his voice reads as plainspoken, nonpartisan, and fair to those whose views differ from his own, ranging from black conservatives to Malcolm X.As in many other popular-market books on race and justice, West states his ideas concisely rather than exploring them in depth, but his views here are resonant and compelling.He sees oppression as a landscape that encompasses race, gender, and economics.
That said, for an indepth analysis on black culture in the late 20th century, I think Dr. West's discussions and prescriptions raise more questions than they answer.
Just one example that comes to the top o' the noggin: Dr. West calls for a race transcending dialogue, one that does not involve racial reasoning, i.e. logic that adheres to an individual's skin color as a justification for authenticity (whether positive or negative).
Immediately questions came to Andy's mind's eye: can this alternate history be extrapolated to thereby fit other cases where racial reasoning might be involved?; and, how would individuals begin to enact such a dialogue?; etc.
The book consists of 8 essays that do shed light some prominent matters in America, but I fear that the only reason I have enjoyed the revelations of this book is because I have set myself up with certain knowledge which allows me to more readily agree with its contents.
50)The idea is present that the Black America contemporary to this book had a consciousness set as victims, and that these were the points that conservatives and neo-conservatives were denouncing as weakness while also partaking in them to bolster themselves.
From the lack of strong leadership since the civil rights movement to misogyny and sexuality to relations with jews to homosexuality he applies his philosophy that america's increasing emphasis on capitalism has contributed to a sense of helplessness and hopelessness in the black community.
His base argument that economic forces are the largest underlying factor to blame for the ever deepening sense of nihilism among poorer blacks is different and well articulated, even if it is a bit dense at times.
The book sometimes has bit too much of an apocholyptic tone for some but his opinions are extremely well articulated and fair.
I've often wondered what I would have done if I was alive during the Civil Rights Movement; I now recognize the need to ask what I will do, as that Movement is far from being concluded.I take issue with many of West's points in this book, but the overall thesis is irrefutably logical and West's superior intellect is apparent on every page.
Having just finished David Brooks' latest book, The Road to Character, I was struck by how much alignment there is between the thesis' of these seemingly unrelated works.
