https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595273.Locos
It’s at this point that the author is compelled to interrupt his narrative one more time, explaining how Gaston (El Cogote), actually came to know Lunarito; it was through the author’s friend, Don Laureano Baez, and (view spoiler)[ did you really think I’d tell you everything, or did it just feel that way?
Bad writers were in the habit of coming to that café in quest of characters, and I came now and then among them.And so he did, this Spanish expatriate, writing in English, in New York, because he felt Spaniards wouldn't get it.
But the author said he could not control his characters, or not completely.A very old-looking woman in an apron comes into a kitchen.
Yet I noticed - as if only I was supposed to notice - that there was an un-named character who appeared only once or twice.
Locos: A Comedy of Gestures is a lost gem from the late thirties and was forerunner for the postmodern movement of the ‘60s onward.
The novel is a series of interlocking tales wherein characters are redistributed among the manifold Spanish topographies, sometimes for significant contrasts, sometimes for simple mischief.The novel has more in common with the ancient storytelling tradition, narrated in a fable-like voice, but Alfau is conscious of the limitations of this form and deploys footnotes and authorial corrections to challenge the stiffness of the Great Canonical Novels.
Their plots are immutable, whereas his book invites a reading in any order, with any number of interpretations.
Somewhere in Toledo, lost amongst narrow streets, there is the Café of the Crazy frequented by disused literary characters…“Bad writers were in the habit of coming to that café in quest of characters, and I came now and then among them.
Characters have visions of true life – they dream reality and then they are lost.”There is an episode in the novel called “The Butterfly Charmer” and in spite of all the declared autonomy of the characters Felipe Alfau like a butterfly charmer makes them perform all the tricks he wants.Spring comes and the winter of our discontent is defeated.
The metafictional element - the 'whimsy of a loss of authorial control' as Mary McCarthy writes in the afterword - is no great innovation, and while it is entertaining and, in at least one story ('A Character', in which a fictional character falls in love with a 'real' woman), moving, it rarely occupies centre-stage.
As McCarthy says: 'If any aspect of the book has aged, it is this whimsicality.' Maybe that's exaggeration, or maybe I don't care that it has aged; for my part, I liked the whimsy, but felt it was unevenly spread across the stories.
The "characters in revolt against their young 'author'" line in the description had me somewhat concerned; I could see it getting a little too whimsically "meta," like one of those Daffy Duck cartoons where he complains about how the animator is drawing him, and the animator retaliates by drawing Daffy more and more ridiculously.
Certainly, there is the element of characters having their own consciousness apart from the author's, appearing and re-appearing throughout the interconnected stories, but it stops short of becoming cloying or overwhelming.
I still feel the need to read it again, because I know on a second reading I'll discover things that I never noticed the first time through.
It takes more than a little something to write about your characters disobeying yourself, the author.
Well, maybe it takes more of that thing today than in 1928, but still.
Despite that somewhat heavy-handed self-awareness at the beginning, (the authorial footnotes strewn throughout are a less grating touch) this text shines in the way it moves.
It is funny and frenetic and invites you to do more than a little detective work.
Breezy tune-up read for Chromos, which I understand is his masterwork.
Much better than this would be quite good indeed.
You can safely read the Mary McCarthy afterword on this beforehand.
çok eğlenceli, tekrar okuyacağım. 5/5
Poor Felipe Alfau! If he had stayed in Spain rather than immigrate to the States he would very likely be considered today one of the most interesting writers among the “avant-garde” artists of the 20th century. Locos, a book he apparently wrote in the late 1920s but only published in 1936, and no one paid any attention to it until more than 50 years later, anticipates trends that can be found in other major 20th century writers. In fact, there is no doubt that the structure of Cortazar’s Hopscot
Locos, a book he apparently wrote in the late 1920s but only published in 1936, and no one paid any attention to it until more than 50 years later, anticipates trends that can be found in other major 20th century writers.
The interruption of the fictive time of the narrative by the “real time” dimension in which the author writes—I need to stop writing because the doorbell rang, he says at some point—can be found later (also literally) in Clarice Lispector, another modernist writer known all over the world as the most important South American female writer, who is only now discovered in this county.
Can you guess which is which?Cortazar published 62: A Model Kit in Spanish in 1968; the edition I read was translated in 1972.
Cortazar seems to be peopling an imaginary city with characters and scenarios imagined by the very characters in the story, but unfortunately they never seemed real.
This experience was severely disappointing after I quite enjoyed reading  Autonauts of the CosmorouteWith Locos, Alfau seems to be following in the footsteps of fellow Spaniard Luigi Pirandello who wrote a play in 1921 entitled Six Characters In Search of an Author.
The story begins (roughly) with Alfau, playing himself, at a cafe with a "friend" who becomes a character in the book.
Not as good as Chromos, but striking for its time.
The postmodernist technique within a story was most engaging in the first tale.
The best story from a pure writing standpoint was “Students.” This is one of the most realistic and yet most emotional portrayals of the fears and agonies of a child I have ever read.
A (apparently upper middle class) boy approaching adolescence is sent to a parochial school in a small town.
At school he also encounters a gentle, humanistic priest, and a young, lively nun.
Considering that Alfau was a pioneer at this time, it’s well worth reading.

I fell in love with this by the end of the first paragraph and it didn't let go until the last page. Odd then, as I loathe short stories and abhor the term 'metafiction' and all that goes with it (coffee not in an instant granular form, sour dough bread, open-toed sandals, the city, people etc).There is something charming yet conflicted about Alfau's narrative which makes it kinda edgy, cutesy and provocatively sketchy. A hot mess drawn with a light hand. A thumbs and fingers up experience.
Did a review of this book here: https://youtu.be/yNvFgHb51mQ
This book is very clever, an example of what wiki calls metafiction. I had never read anything like this, and was charmed and captivated..., at first. But charm is a thin substitute for emotional depth, and reading this simultaneously with Mrs. Dalloway cost this one a star. That said, a worthy little book.
Locos özel bir kitap. Çarpıcı, etkileyici, şaşırtıcı. ..Okuru atmosferi içine alan Alfau'yu dilimize kazandıranlara teşekkürler. ..
Read this little tightly structured novel as a prelude to Alfau's BURIED/Lost Classic Chromos [recommended/required]. Or read it on its own. It's delightful!
In 1992 a book of poems he wrote in Spanish from the 20s to the 80s was also published.
In particular, pay close to the first chapter; when I first read it seemed unimportant but after I finished the book I realized it held many important clues for the rest of the book.The stories are out of order chronologically and in some ways it almost felt like an absurd twist on films like Crash, Amores Perros and Pulp Fiction, in that it makes interesitng connections between characters who at first seem unrelated.
One of the best things about Felipe Alfau's books is that they are clever metafictions which often anticipate the experiments of writers such as John Barth, Georges Perec and Milorad Pavic, but they are much lighter in tone.
So you get the full metafictional experience without the creased brow!
All are brilliantly original protagonists.There are very few books I have read twice, but this was my third reading of *Locos* in twenty years and it’s still in my top 10 favourite works of fiction.
*Locos* anticipates the playful postmodernism of the 1960s; it is a book full of quirks and ideas and tricks.
A wonderful collection of interlocking stories, told by and about a cast of shape-shifting characters who wander in and about each other's lives like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle which could be put together in endlessly different patterns.
Those who are not in the foreground of a particular story are nevertheless lurking in the background, illuminating themselves like occasional fireflies.
Others, like the great Olozago, seem to be a different character on every other page, as their histories self-modify and stretch out through the years.
Others are mainly hinted at, like the long-suffering Padre Innocencio.
I've now read every novel of this amazing fellow, all two of them.
Alfau, a bitter curmudgeon in his old age, is unclassifiable.
"Locos" revolves around a set of characters the author met in the Cafe des Locos whose identities and proclivities constantly shift in each section according to their own whim.
In short, the author has lost control of his work and the characters themselves have taken over the narrative despite his best efforts.
A truly bizarre book, similar to "At-Swim-Two-Birds".
Highlights include the middle-aged necrophile woman who dies three months out of the year and a maniacal poet with bizarre aspersions towards spring.
How has this book been collecting dust on my shelves or been traveling with me or been hidden in various boxes for so many years? It is brilliant.It reminds me of Queneau's Flight of Icarus, in which the author's characters escape from the novel to engage in particularly Queneau-esque (Queneauvian?) antics, but Alfau not only prefigures Queneau (& Nabokov & a whole host of similarly-minded so-called "postmodern" authors), he tops him.Thank god for Dalkey Archive.
well, upon my honor, i've been learning in my reads about this idea that i express as such, the mark of zero, this motif about disappearing.
this last story i read, "the necrophil" has an interesting take on the-mark-of-zero in that one character dona micaela dies.
onward, ever onward.17 jan 16as a matter of fact, alfau's other story/work that i've read, Chromos, late july early august, 2014, i remarked on a phrase therein: the temptation to exist.
curious, though, that both stories from him i've read i've noticed the mark-of-zero.
Tuhaf pırıltıya, yanardönerliğe sahip olan karakterler ve mekanlara sahip.
Ana teması İspanya'nın tuhaflıklarını merkezine alıyor.
Dona Micaela'nın ölüme olan aşkı çok ilginçti, bir süre çürümeden ölü olarak yatıp bu süreden sonra yaşamına devam etmesi, tuhaf bir çekiciliğinin olmasının dışında eski evliliklerinde ki eşlerinin ölümle sonlanması, ölümü sevmesi, ölüleri sevmesi üzerine son eşinin psikolojisi bozularak o ölü iken kendisini çok sevdiği halde terketmesi bir süre sonra da ölmesi...Dilencilerin sahip olduğu zenginlik, rahibelerin yaşadığı ensest ilişkiler, günahkar rahipler, gereğinden fazla gururlanan polis şefleri, Sherlock Holmes eğitimi almış yeğen :))Kitaptaki olaylar gibi farklı zamanda, farklı mekanda, aynı isimler farklı karakterler okuyormuş gibi tekrar okuyacağım.
Who was this Spanish American who wrote an English novel meaning "The Crazies" twenty years ahead of similar surreal stylings of Marquez and Calvino?
The book rockets off with some dazzling postmodern fireworks, and while some of the middle stories cannot possibly sustain that creative fervor, the final stories clinch the collection with poetic poignancy.
In the afterword by Mary McCarthy, she shares, after re-reading the book after many years, the elaborate connections between all the stories.
(I should have been taking notes with all the Spanish names!) These are carefully crafted stories hall of mirrors in which we can fear and laugh at our distortions.
XX, el autor plantea la novela como un juego: ya en el prólogo invita, cuatro décadas antes que Cortázar, que “el lector puede tomar el libro y empezarlo por el final y acabarlo por el principio, o puede empezarlo y terminarlo por la mitad,” haciendo de la obra un relato circular.
Toda la novela es un baile de máscaras, una comedia de gestos, donde los personajes reclaman su realidad al autor más allá de la obra, se la exigen, se la imponen a veces.
Este juego ficción-realidad sirve de excusa para una reflexión sobre la identidad de las personas: hay personajes que se desdoblan y otros que confluyen en un equívoco y unívoco personaje.
These stories of a group of characters in Spain, gets a little confusing because characters show up in different stories, sometimes as different people. It was difficult to keep them straight, but still enjoyable to try to remember what the reader should already know about them. Scandals abound: suicides, thefts, incest, relations between nuns and priests, etc. Definitely recommended for Calvino fans.
Dreamy, funny, and way ahead of its time. Can't wait to read Chromos!
Brilliant! Experimental and funny and sweet and tragic. If "A comedy of gestures" sound like your thing, read it; if you know any other authors like this, send them my way.
What is it with Latin Americans and these kinds of books
