https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60926.Lilith_s_Brood
from the Earth Journal of Scientific Analyst SLJLK92349UO, Earth Invasion Exploratory Unitone thing became clear to me as I read this trilogy: Octavia Butler is not partial to the human kind.
the trilogy follows the lives of three individuals: the woman who paves the way for a joining of the two species, and two of her children - two different kinds of human/Oankali "constructs".Butler correctly assesses humanity's tragic flaw: a genetic tendency towards hierarchism at every level.
Butler's trilogy is a part of that excellent tradition and these books are challenging in the best sort of way: they force the reader to speculate on their own limited natures, on their own individual decisions and on the future of their kind.
As I read the book, I found Butler's ideas running up against walls of prejudice and bias I didn't even know I have.The Oankali rescue humanity from the brink of total annihilation by global warfare.
Yes, the mating of humans and Oankali challenges our ideas of sex, but not really gender—aside from the act being performed, men are still masculine and females are still feminine.
Adulthood Rites and Imago are somewhat less compelling than Dawn, partly because of the changes in perspective—although it's interesting how Butler begins the series with a human protagonist, then switches to a male human-Oankali construct, and concludes with an ooloi human-Oankali.
I mean, thank you so much for the chemical/biological dis/utopia, the symbiosis, the incredible view of new kinds of love that revise our relationships, but where are all the people I know and love in this post-apocalypse?
There is some character variations, like Lilith herself, but I just don't think that the legion of i-pod addled, youth obsessed, individualistic perverts I know would be bitching and whining that much about living for hundreds of years and have polyamorous relationships involving aliens that plug directly into your nervous system.
Basically, I didn't like the glum view of humanity as being straight, violent, baby obsessed fascists, but if it gotta be that way, she did it really well.
I wouldn't normally define myself as a straight-up science fiction fan - in fact, I'm normally put off by techno fairy tales and scary alien stories. But I finally picked up  Lilith's Brood  after my father (who is something of a purist) bothered me enough. I was instantly intrigued.It isn't just a post-apocalyptic novel... or an exploration of other worlds... or other races of beings, for that matter. No, Butler decided to use the aliens that have taken control of the dying human race in order
No, Butler decided to use the aliens that have taken control of the dying human race in order to raise questions regarding what it means to be human.
After the last nuclear war, most of Earth is left in ruin, with only a few survivors.
The Oankali are nonviolent aliens with an unsettling appearance - and they're planning a genetic trade with the humans after they use their strange technology to bring the world back to its former luster.
What if what defines us as humans is our most dangerous aspect?
this is the first science fiction book i have read since i was a teenager, and it was so good, i fell in love with octavia butler, and my interest in science fiction was rekindled.
when i started to develop a critical consciousness in college i found that i couldn't read my formerly favorite science fiction books, i.e. stranger in a strange land by robert heinlein, because while they could imagine amazing technological and magical futures where the human mind could overcome previous boundaries, they couldn't reconfigure race, class, gender or sexuality.
in her novels, and in this series in particular, she re-imagines race, gender and sexuality.
Read it or not.
I simply kept reading and into Imago I went.
For me it read as a grand story.
I felt myself changing, becoming like the ooloi, taking everything in, letting it fill me, then my human part reared it's head and I was scared, confused.
Which choice is correct.
But then I find my inner ooloi and think, this is it.
This is the correct path.
I hope Lilith is revered.
This is a Novel.
Actually 3 novels.
I don't know why I never read these.
It deserves to be read over and over.
Like an ooloi.
Octavia Butler has a way of holding up a mirror to humanity and showing us everything that is ugly and perhaps shameful.
I have read every book Ms. Butler has written and this was not my favorite of her books in my first read, but it is the one that has stuck with me the longest.
I suppose all her books deal with this on some level, but throw earth's survivors onto a new planet to endure forced alien breeding and the issue gets forced pretty quickly in these novels!
This is one of my new favorite worlds. I adored the Oankali and learning more about them throughout the trilogy. I love how this book is saturated in ethical ambiguity. You need to decide if you think the Oankali have the concept of consent in their culture. If you think they do, then this is a very disturbing series. If you think they don't, then this encourages you to look at the situation from a fascinating new perspective. This sci-fi family saga constantly questions what it means to be human. I absolutely loved it!
I. Can't. Even. Pure brilliance! Check out my fangirly review here.
Just after we've done so, a strange and powerful alien race called the Oankali arrive to save us.
Sort of.The Oankali are strange in a number of ways.
Lilith--and the rest of humanity--is deeply troubled by the thought of merging with the Oankali and giving up humanity as a separate species.The remaining novels deal with Lilith's children who are cross-breeds of humans and Oankali, who are living in a milieu that includes Human-Oankali "constructs" and sterile, frustrated humans who are resisting the merger with the aliens.The series deals with issues of what it means to be human (remember this quotation?), while also developing interesting characters and their relationships.
My personal favorite sci-fi trilogy.
I have reviewed the individual volumes separately:- Dawn- Adulthood Rites- ImagoMind blowing, thought provoking, thrilling stuff.
(Plenty more hyperbole in the above mentioned reviews!) One thing I particularly want to mention about the author is I love how she embraced the "science fiction author" label.
Unlike some "literary" talented authors who prefer to avoid the sci-fi label she took pride in it.
Certainly I agree that it is an author's prerogative how they want their works or themselves to be classified, which makes Octavia Butler's choice that much more meaningful, the photo below beautifully illustrates this point:I wish she was still with us.
Octavia Butler is playing with fire here - these books probe the deepest topics that fiction can explore, and drive straight to the heart of many of the most important issues humans deal with.
Fortunately, she's up to the task, and indeed the entire first third of this series is an extravagant setup; while Dawn is somewhat frustrating to read, it is completely necessary.
After reading these books, I'm eager to sample more of what Octavia's offering.
I read Dawn a few months ago, and while I liked it, I wasn't blown away.
After I read Fledgling and was newly impressed with Butler's creativity and way with language, I decided to finish the series.
It absorbed me for two days, and I ended up absolutely loving it.
This series reminded me of Vonnegut without the humor--where he uses absurdity to make a point, Butler lets that same point seep into you a little at a time.
Rather than choosing between utopia and dystopia, Butler writes a novel in which one cannot distinguish between the two.
I will say that Ms Butler does a fantastic job of expressing not just Lilith's ambiguity towards her task, but also her anger towards the Oankali and the humans.
The tension Lilith feels is clearly mirrored by the humans until eventually things fall apart.
There's still tension between the humans and Oankali, and, for some reason, the Oankali decide that it's up to Akin to fix it for them.I honestly don't remember much from this one, other than that I found Akin utterly adorable.I don't really know how to describe Imago.
I wasn't as captured by Jodahs as I was by Lilith and Akin.
And just when you start to think, "gee, these reactions are pretty tame," the real horrors start to be uncovered: genetic tampering, psychological edits/ rewrites, and slavery/ imprisonment, the real underpinning being "Who will win this Space Race?"Look, Butler is not going to let the reader out of this conundrum with easy answers: for example, I was very disturbed by Lilith's "no rape!" policy only applying to women.
When she allows a man -- her partner -- to be raped (not "seduced") by the aliens (and this won't be the last time this happens either), I was immediately questioning her autonomy.
Octavia Butler uses this book to explore what makes us human by taking humanity completely out of its known context and giving it a whole new one with fundamental restrictions and specifically chosen opportunities.
I think she does get a little bit heavy-handed -- I feel there's a little more gray scale to human behavior than perhaps she decided to paint on -- but all in all it's an amazing story and one which taught me a little bit more about what it means to be human.
I think Lilith's Brood keeps a good balance of giving just enough of said newness to keep you intrigued and immersed without creating a need for a dictionary of terms and characters built into the back!
Sterling; Butler died too soon.This is thoughtful, intelligent science fiction, with interstellar travel, but nary a blaster in sight.
I think I'd still consider this hard sci-fi.
Butler must have done a great deal of research into genetics, biochemistry, and neurochemistry.
She clearly knew a lot about human psychology too.Her writing is spare, and tight, with few extraneous words/ descriptions.
I think Butler was very aware of how much we are governed by our biology, in particular our biochemistry.
She's also aware of how much we lie to ourselves, or refuse to see unpalatable truths.
I don't like rape or forced behavior in my books and what happened to these people is rape.how is drugging and sexually abusing the humans helping them?
it makes no sense, and it made it so that they could not stand the touch of their humans mate.
they were not given a choice, it's sick.Lilith forced it on her human mate, of course she was sexually active with three of the alien monsters.
if the humans were sterile, I think the aliens made it so.This author is an acquired taste
This series was fantastic! I can't wait to read some more Octavia Butler.
Lilith wakes up from a nuclear war to find she, and all other humans, have been scooped up from a dying earth, frozen for long enough for the Earth to recover, and are now being awakened to be mated with and returned to Earth to populate it with alien, human hybrids.
Classic B grade sci-fi stuff right?
Their behaviours are so incredibly alien, and viewed by humans, utterly horrific, but to you the reader now seem so normal and right.
Your sympathies are always with the aliens and never with the humans.
This book is actually a trilogy: Dawn, Adulthood Rites and Imago.
Ordinarily, I avoid trilogies because if I don't read them all at once I lose the thread and if I do read them all at once I'm bored by the end.
I only give 5 stars to books that I think are something really out of the ordinary, and this is; not just for its genre (sci-fi), but for any fiction.
I love being able to lose myself in a richly imagined world, and this book allowed me to do that.
It is a book of ideas masquerading as a well-told story - an unbeatable combination.
The humans who survived are rescued by an alien race with the promise they will help them one day return to Earth.
But at what cost?Lilith’s Brood is a trilogy that takes us through this journey and explores issues of gender, race, hierarchy, and xenophobia.
I enjoy Butler’s writing style, her ability to draw the reader in, and the way she gently leads the reader through this crazy journey.
If I were to rate this book on the writing alone it would be a five-star read.
It was the bizarre world Butler created that I gave my overall rating a 3.5.
Butler does not let up. She presents you with the alien, and then doesn't let you flinch or look away. She is quietly relentless, and the tension in her stories builds and builds...and doesn't explode, like the cliche, but subsides. Along the way, you get an excellent story presented through the kind of excellent and innovative ideas that mark superb SciFi.
I love Octavia Butler and this trilogy is the best. I was totally engaged with the characters and the story line. I actually feel disappointed that Imago, one of the trilogy, was her last.
The concept of the Oankali is the most unique fictional alien creation I have ever seen or read.
The consent issues did not just come in the form of sexual activity, but also in how they sterilized all humans who refused to mate.
Throughout the book, I could never tell what Butler was really trying to say with that, if in fact she critiqued it at all.
Maybe she was trying to say all living species are problematic.
In the end, I just had a harder time relating to Lilith's construct children, Akin and Jodahs, who became central figures in book two and three.
The humans are then returned to earth – sterile, unless they breed with Oankali mates.
Even the ones that try to remain peaceful find that they have little purpose without being able to reproduce and raise children of their own, so they take to stealing children from one another – either those that were children when they came back to earth, or those that are born to the human-Oankali families.
I’m not sure if that’s something we feel on some deep animal level or if that’s part of our evolved self-consciousness.But I wonder what the human-Oankali mixes think.
There was reason to fear WW III back then and in the story it has happened, with disastrous results for the entire planet.Lilith wakes up to learn that humanity has been "saved" by aliens, but she and many of the humans who remain interpret this as "enslaved." The aliens have no plan to restore Earth or the Humans to what they were.
(It's easy to read into this a retelling of the story of African exploitation, but the story rises well above that.)The trilogy takes place in (surprise) three parts, the first focused on Lilith, the remaining ones on two of her descendants.
The importance of the Contradiction and how that effects humanity’s chances to survive as a distinct, non-hybridized species is the central theme of the second book in the series, Adulthood Rites which focuses on Lilith’s son Akin.Akin is stolen from his family by resisters, humans who refused the hybridized family life of the Oankali and live in isolated settlements.
It can be explained, but not internalized emotionally, it makes no sense to the Oankali whose species is driven by the desire to accumulate new genes and change over time.Gender plays a big role in Lilith’s Brood.
This series wrapped me up in all sorts of emotions. Of course Butler's prose is beautiful- so beautiful that at times it just fades away, leaving the story.Although I am not generally a fan of alien stories (especially slug-like tentacle creatures) I found the interpersonal relations in this one so vivid that I didn't mind they were about aliens. In fact, by the third book all I wanted was more about the aliens--- which I guess was the point of the books. The only minus to this is that it eventually ends.
I always want to learn something about everything and I'd be in ecstasy if I could taste and feel and learn like these aliens, I'd love to be able to read the very molecular structure of things.
The Ooloi are a 3rd sex, neither male or female and they, like me, want to know everything about everything in the world.Also the Oankali are all vegetarians and hate harming pretty much anything which is another thing that makes them cool, even though I am not a vegetarian and should consider becoming one.I finished reading Imago.
