https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/749399.No_Bed_for_Bacon
I’ve enjoyed the likes of Shakespeare Undead and The Dark Lady's Mask, not to mention a short story involving Atticus O’Sullivan of Kevin Hearne’s Iron Druid series (Goddess at the Crossroads).
Surprisingly, there doesn’t seem to be any kind of collated list of fiction featuring Shakespeare as a character, but No Bed for Bacon is the earliest that I have yet encountered.
I’m surprised that there aren’t many more novels with Shakespeare figuring prominently as a character!
There are tons of books written as reinterpretations of his works, but fewer which feature the Bard himself.Despite being first published in 1941, No Bed for Bacon still feels remarkably fresh to me.
(The commoness of the theme is probably because it is prompted by the many girls who disguise themselves as boys in Shakespeare's own plays.)Across the town, the rival theatre company of Philip Henslowe sets out to destroy the Burtbages and Shakespeare, with various ham-fisted attempts to destroy their theatre: inciting the Puritans to close it down, sending out bravos to burn it - they get lost and burn down Henslowe's theatre instead, and finally sabotaging the props for a performance of Henry VIII.
A fun, rollicking read satirising the Elizabethan era.I wonder if I'm quite well-educated enough to get all the jokes.
Parts of the book were laugh-out-loud funny ("In what manner that I have not already used," he asked Dick Burbage, "can I bring a heroine to life who has been most dead?" HA SO TRUE), especially everything to do with Sir Walter Raleigh.
The book is fairly dry and straight-faced, and I couldn't shake the feeling that some of the jokes were flying over my head.Even if some of them do, this is still a gloriously silly read which any fan of Shakespeare and the Elizabethans is sure to enjoy.
I mean, despite his name being in the subtitle, Shakespeare's story is mostly a subplot, and the bulk of the book focuses instead on a handful of several other historical characters of the period, with most of the attention given to the Queen and her merrie (so merrie) band of cohorts.I'm still really glad I picked this book up though!
The writing style is Spartan and funny and quirky and so self-aware.
So self-aware, in fact, that I was actually pretty surprised to learn that this book was written in the early 1940s, the humor seeming so, you know, modern.
The book does falter a bit, towards the end (of course an otherwise excellent book would falter towards the end) but overall a pretty fun read!
It is time for the Queen's Revels and Elizabeth is on a tear.
He has just brought a new delicacy - the potato - to England and it is to be tasted for the first time during the events.
Oh, and Bacon and the bed?
Seems there is quite a cachet to owning a bed that the queen has slept in.
Quite a status symbol and Bacon is out to get the next one this time.It is the lunatic asylum out on the streets and in court with all that is going on.
I first read this when I was at school (in the 1960s) and have returned to the authors recently. It's still wry and sometimes outrightly funny and to me at least it has not dated. Nicely written by Brahms and Simon.
A little silly, and there wasn't much of a plot, but cute and funny.
What a riot. I read this years ago, and I am afraid it informs my interest in Shakespeare and Francis Bacon. You would have to read this book to understand why that is alarming.
But this is a book I read and reread until the original Penguin paperback I found on my parents’ bookshelves fell apart in my hands, and only to start all over again when it was reprinted after the film, Shakespeare in Love, came out.At its heart, No Bed for Bacon shares its story with Shakespeare in Love – a young noblewoman who falls in love with the theatre and disguises itself as a girl-boy-player.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive listSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time in a single list.
This one would have been lively enough illustrating, as it does- hilariously, the theatrical milieu of Shakespeare, Burbage, their rivals and respective companies, but when you add a rousing account of the defeat of the Spanish Armada, and Raleigh's bungled introduction, to Elizabethan England, of the potato, well, fuck me, that's a Classic.
Really funny, good for anyone who likes Shakespeare in Love, the Tudors or comedy - Although it is completely inaccurate!
Very funny, but surprisingly hard to follow.
I tried, but couldn't get into it. No rating, just dismissed.
A gem of a comedy. Loved every bit of this one.
Hmm: .
A comedy about Shakespeare. Amusing and charmingly old-fashioned, but not all that compelling, or possibly I wasn't in the mood (skipped through the last part...).
Good, uncynical, imaginative fun. Some amusing stuff about potatoes.
Absolutely fantastic! Really funny, well-researched and overall a very pleasant read.
