https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29531.The_Bait_Of_Satan
This is yet another must read for all christians. I will have this as a yearly re read to keep the examples reveal at the forefront of my mind as I continue my walk with Christ.Re-Read on February 9th 2017:This is one of those books that you need to keep close and re read ever so often as a reminder of how the enemy causes us to get offended and also allows others to be offended. It shows you how to detect it and how to deal with it. Such an enlightening read.
This is a book that everyone should read... Seriously! It is about what happens when we take Offense and how Satan will use that against us in our own lives. It sounds intense but if you want some relief in your life and growth, this is a MUST READ! It's teaching me sooooo much and praise God for that!
I was, in fact, holding onto some offenses, not allowing God’s work to be as effective in those areas of my life and ministry.THE TRAPRight at the very beginning of the book, John teaches that the Greek word for “offend” is skandalon, which refers to the part of a trap where the bait is set.
Offense leads to sin, which leads to separation from God and others. We are so easily offended, but this book opened my eyes to the ways in which to overcome offense.
In war the enemy gets the upperhand by cutting off communication amongst the soliders. Without communication, one is often alone without any idea of what should be done next. Offense is the tactic Satan uses to cut communication and create separation. At that point, he can attack and destroy quickly, swiftly and without interference. This book gives tons of examples and situations backed by the Word to help us understand, recognize and reject the bait of satan.
Every person on God's plant is subject to being offended. Read how God expects us to handle it versus the enemy's expectation. Everyone should read this book but especially every church member or those who have been hurt by "the church". Absolutely the best book I have ever read!
“Why is she in hell?” he asked the Lord.The Lord told him that she had refused to forgive a relative and therefore could not be forgiven."(John Bevere, "The Bait of Satan: Living Free From the Deadly Trap of Offense" (10th Anniversary Edition, 2004), Charisma House, pp.123-124; https://smile.amazon.com/Bait-Satan-L...
Kindle Edition; https://smile.amazon.com/NKJV-MacArth...)And the ESV Global Study Bible agrees with MacArthur: "MATTHEW— NOTE ON 6:14–15 Forgive your trespasses refers to restoring relationship following sin, not salvation."(ESV Bibles by Crossway.
if you mean that you don't need to give the right answer at how to deal with them, well, then you are doomed like the titanic to suffer shipwreck and havock!!!Offenses are poisenous baits, if you feed on them, then invariable you'll became sick ..Please, if it must be one book you had to read in this year, let it be these here!!!That's how important I consider it!!As said, Bevere is a christian, and this his book has the Scriptures as his foundation.
This book should be REQUIRED READING for everyone.
This was recommended to me by a friend from church, and is the book the church uses for a course on spiritual cleansing- I would actually like to study this with others to see if I would gain any more insight.
Bevere's theme is on offense, and how taking offense and harboring unforgiveness are poisonous to us.
Exercising forgiveness is like exercising any muscle: you have to use it all the time.
The outline of the book was a little vague, so while there was a lot of valuable info and scripture application, it lacked pop.
For me personally, this book held a great message. I read it in a group and also passed the book on to some friends, and I noticed that some people took issue with how he worded things, but for me the message that he had really spoke through whatever odd trappings might have surrounded it. At the heart of this book is a Biblical message which every Christian should hear and take to heart: we don't have the right to hold bitterness in our hearts, no matter how legitimately we've been wronged.
WOW! This is for anyone who has been hurt by anyone, or who has hurt anyone. It is not a sappy, feel-good book. It will rock your faith to the core. I didn't read at first because of the title, but offence, then the fruit of that, unforgiveness, keeps so many from a fruitful life, and even from Heaven. I wish so many in the church would read this who have been hurt by pastors and other Christians.
I love that in his first chapter Bevere reminds us of the words of Jesus, "It is impossible that no offenses should come" (Luke 17:1), but points out that we don't have to hang on to them or let them control our lives.This book is written a style that is so easy to understand.
The author not only quotes scripture and explains it, but gives excellent examples from the Bible, his own life and ministry to illustrate his points.
The fact that it is still read, recommended and used for personal/group Bible study after all these years is a testimony to its relevance.
Life Changing!!!
I'm off the hook!!I cannot think of a single soul that would not be blessed by this book.
I want to buy it for so many people, but instead I pray for God to orchestrate thay purchase according to when those are ready.This book has led me to true freedom in Christ Jesus.
This book right here is a key for warfare.
My Redeemer lives and I'm so happy to be off the hook!
You will certainly be blessed if you open your heart and mind to it.
I don't think the world's current woes are signs that Jesus is coming back soon; I think the woes are the way it always is; it just feels more intense now because we're living through it rather than reading about it in the history books.I am also not as dualistic as Bevere--I don't think there is a spiritual war going on between God and Satan and the outcome of the battle still hangs in the balance.
It's a book I need to read again and again to remind myself of how much happier I will be--and how much happier the people around me will be--when I work the kink out of my soul by forgiving and reconciling rather than nursing my feelings of being offended.
+ 1 Petrus 1:6-7 Daarin verheugt u zich, ook al wordt u nu voor een korte tijd – als het nodig is – bedroefd door allerlei verzoekingen, opdat de beproeving van uw geloof – die van groter waarde is dan die van goud, dat vergaat en door het vuur beproefd wordt – mag blijken te zijn tot lof en eer en heerlijkheid, bij de openbaring van Jezus Christus.Tijdens de hitte van beproevingen zullen onzuiverheden naar boven komen.Je ziet aan goud of mensen niet of er zooi in zit, totdat je het in de oven met beproevingen legt.H2Spreuken 18: 19 - een verongelijkte broeder is ontoegankelijker dan een sterke stad, en twistingen zijn als de grendel van een stad.Muren om je heen bouwen beschermen je niet, maar worden een gevangenis.Als u geduldig de straf voor uw misdaden ondergaat, is dat natuurlijk geen verdienste.
This book was recommended to me by several people I respect, given to me by some wonderful people because they knew I wanted to read it, and it has much good to say on the subject of offense--something that is seldom spoken of from the pulpit.
This book's message is particularly important for the social media culture we have that thrives on being offended.I almost gave the book 3 stars simply because the author strays into "Pentecostalisms" that may be confusing for those outside that tradition.
His content also seems to become slightly generic towards the end.

I read this with my life group. I wouldn't have picked it up on my own, and I was prepared to hate it, but it ended up working well for our group. The book itself is not so dramatic as the title would imply. Bevere focuses on getting offended, unforgiveness, and resisting the desire for revenge, and I felt like he made some very good points on those issues. I doubt I would recommend it as widely as I would other Christian books I have read unless I thought it would work for a specific situation for a specific person.
Titlul cărții se explică singur: o carte despre cum să scapi de capcana ofenesei, cu alte cuvinte cum să ierți, să cauți împăcarea, folosul celui de lângă tine, chiar dacă dreptatea e de partea ta. O abordare absurdă ai spune, dacă nu ar fi clar că aşa e şi dragostea lui Dumnezeu pentru om; absurdă, iertătoare, care caută împăcarea prin Hristos și care se uita după folosul tău, în pofida faptului că doar după dreptate altfel ar fi stat lucrurile. E vorba de dragoste.
Did this in a Bible study fashion. I find the book to be redundant. I find the author to be a little too sensational in his charismatic theology/style. He did use to be one of Benny Hinn's main guys... The point of the book is excellent, however, I would have preferred to read what Timothy Keller, J.C. Ryle, John Piper, Spurgeon and the like have to say about the topic. I was a little offended by the book. Oh, the irony.
Awesome book about Forgiveness towards God, people, friends and finally yourself.I got deceived by the title of this book but once I started reading I couldn't stop.Forgiveness is such a simple thing but we humans sometime make it so complex that we aren't able to forgive ourselves, someone who has hurt us etc.And we carry on the grudge on our own shoulders.It's better to forgive and accept God's grace in the life.Amen.
I recommend this book to everyone. John addresses the core of a problem in the believers life that can do so much harm. He exposes the enemy and opens the prison doors. Read this one and buy two so you will have one to give away and one to make reference to.
An excellent read. I always thought this book wouldn't be for me, as I'm not the type to hold grudges against people, but I found that there were little nooks where the devil had popped in some offense, and I was only not responding because I had blocked myself off to such offenses. An eye-opening read - definitely for everyone, even if you feel that you forgive easily.
ثاني قراءة وبرضو بتعلم منه :) اول قراءة في ديسمبر ٢٠١٤ فيه كتب تقراها تخليك تستمتع بيها ذهنيا قوووي .. وفيه كتب تقراها وتلاقي نفسك بتطبفقها ف حياتك وحياة اللي حواليك ويفرق معاك جداااا :) ... الكتاب ده عبارة عن النوعين في بعض .. استمتعت انا وبقراه جداااا وفرق في حياتي لما طبقته قووووي :) :)كتااااب لا يُنسي
I certainly developed a new approach to taking offense after reading this book. I made sure that I DID NOT (take offense) that is. It is not an easy road to travel but if we are to be like Christ then we must follow His way. Freedom is a wonderful thing.
I think we need this book in these polarizing times
This was a reread for me. I read this book several years ago and it impacted me then. This ministered to me on a greater level this time around.
Bible study for a year. Learn to forgive quick and forget each trespass. Jesus told them the truth but did not keep anyone in his heart.
Even hurts that occurred in our far past still have a way of altering our perception of ourselves and the person who caused the hurt resulting in unforgiveness.The author has done a great job at supporting all his claims with principles in scripture as hard evidence of God's desire in living an offensive free life.
At the end of each chapter is a section on Declarations which are promises and commitments to God, short prayers and spiritual goals that help the reader to set their hearts right with God. In one way this is a hard book to read because it is convicting and painfully truthful, but for the reader who wishes to heal from the past hurts of offense, its a book that will bring lasting reward and a new and fresh relationship with others and with God.
