https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45432.The_Supernaturalist
Time to review another oldie:DThis is one of those books that I absolutely LOVE but am terrified to re-read and find out it's not as great as my 12 year old naive mind remembers it.But, anyway, it is epic, with great stories, lovably mean characters, cool sci fi/cyberpunk elements and an AMAZING finale (it's on this giant floating weather baloon/space station thing, i really dont remember much just that i was drooling all over myself).
I swear the first thing i remember thinking upon finishing this book was "no director could ever do justice to this book." I just loved it that much.I've always wondered if you could have a favorite song from a band who isn't your favorite band.
Then he starts his vengeance on the blue creatures by "destroying" them.
Then he finds out he's not destroying them, only helping them reproduce.
He's just destroyed thousands of blue creatures, and finds out that the blue creatures are good and actually helping people.
Ditto lied to him (for 3 years!) and then Stefan dies.
One second he's doing everything "right" and the next he finds out that all the things he was doing "right" were wrong.
I still don't understand why Ditto didn't tell Stefan in the beginning about the blue creatures.
Overall, I liked it, although I was dissatisfied with some elements.British actor Chiwetel Ejiofor (one of my actor crushes) narrates this book very capably, using diverse accents for the characters.
He also comes into contact with a group who works to kill these creatures, which they have called 'parasites.' Throw in a deeper conspiracy and other elements from your standard dystopian world and you have a pretty good science fiction novel.However, I found the end unsatisfying.
I also think more thought could have gone into the world-building and the story plotting as far as the science fiction elements.
The Supernaturalist is very like Artemis Fowl in tone.
It's fun and quick, but I didn't get into it as much as Artemis Fowl -- the characters, I guess, are the problem.
I liked Stefan, and maybe Ditto, but the others were kinda 'meh'.
I didn't get much idea of what drives anyone, apart from Stefan.Plot-wise, it's okay, but everything feels too easily.
The group are too easily tricked, they escape too easily...
There are fun ideas in the background, like the paralegals being pretty much like cops in this world, etc.
But. It didn't feel like it had much substance, really.
Anyway, Cosmo has a near-death experience while jumping off a building and spots these creatures feeding off his energy.
From that point on, Cosmo gets recruited by a band of teenagers determined to rid the city of theses parasitic creatures that drain people's life energy.The main theme of this book is that as the world gets more advanced, the enviorment will be almost completely destroyed and people won't care about each other at all.
So next time you get happy over advancements in technology think about all the negative effects it may have over people and the enviorment.
The dialogue for each character fits with their backstory, but they all talk the same, except for the obvious character of Hispanic descent who uses Spanish words at cliched intervals.
The character of Russian descent does not use Russian words, though, and so I found that aspect of the Hispanic character annoying.
The characters just really were not interesting or compelling.Central Conflict: Intriguing, but underdeveloped.
The obvious compelling needs of the characters really did not play into the plot or the resolution of the plot.It's an adequate read, and as this is my first foray into literature for teens, maybe my expectations were too high.
Don't hate me, but I had to DNF this book.For some reason I just couldn't get into the book. I loved the world-building, but I didn't feel a connection with any of the characters at all. I honestly don't know why, I just didn't care. I was just so bored by this book (this small book!). There were plenty of events happening, but since I didn't care about the characters, it didn't interest me.Sorry guys, maybe I'm just in a weird slump.
Dec 1, 2009Eoin Colfer TOTALLY needs to write a sequel! Does he expect me to just keep reading this one over and over again? Really?Nov 21, 2008It was cute. I couldn't help but wonder if Eoin was going to write a sequel or not. I don't know that he's planning to, but it would work! It ended really well, and the whole thing was REALLY INTERESTING! And the twists in the plot! This author has a gift! :)
This book gets three stars, because I did like it, but I did not think it was breathtaking or earth shattering.
The question is why are all of the books that I find to read about future societies always so .
It seems like a really creative writer could think up some impossible solution that leads to a better place.
I wouldn't have minded more from their points of view, even some flashbacks.It is an interesting book with a new take on what our future could be like, and I do recommend this book.
Hm, I just didn't like this book.
I mean, you have these blue beings (angels, demons, supernatural beings?) that are at first thought to be hurting people, but then are taking away pain, and they are victimized by the evil ex-cop/scientist to make nuclear power?
I think the turning point of not liking the book hit with the revelation that the beings were "taking away people's pain." So are they angels?
The book seems to imply that they are just nature's way of dealing with pain.
There were other loose ends and aspects of the story I just didn't like.
I started this book during a huge period of downtime for me where I was devouring books left and right. For whatever reason I just couldn't handle this one. I gave up after a few pages. I made it further in Twilight than this and I'm a huge Eoin Colfer fan. Maybe I'll give it another go, but for those interested on input...I feel like it didn't have the Eoin Colfer feel to it. At least not the beginning.
I loved Wish List by this author, so I decided to pick this one up too. BIG mistake. I don't remember much about this book, most likely because I blocked it out. The premise of the book wasn't bad, but it was executed rather poorly. Read The Wish List and pass this one by.
3.5Fun, unexpected. Would recommend, especially for younger audience.
Great Sci-fi to help turn teen reader into an adult reader.I was torn between 4 and 5 stars, let's call it 4.5; being an author I fully support rounding up.This book seems to be heavily influenced by Snow Crash (which it just happens I am also reading now)--not the story, just the world.
Then again, Snow Crash was influenced by other dystopian novels.The book is about a band of characters, most teens, who are fighting creatures that only they can see.
I think, this would make a great book to help bridge those tough years when a kid goes from reading MG sci-fi to adult sci-fi.
even the wish list was better, here are the reasons why i thought that the book could have been better.:1) sense of humour(or rather the lack of it): i know that many people will disagree but having read the artemis fowl series and the wish list, i must say that eoin colfer has a much much better a sense of humour.
for a good number of reasons:1) the story telling: here is one thing eoin colfer surpasses himself in.
she's another reason why you shuold read the book.
His struggle to fit in with the Supernaturalists, who have a group dynamic similar to that of The Thief Lord, also makes him identifiable with pretty much every adolescent in the world.Eoin Colfer inserts so many plot twists and turns in The Supernaturalist that I can pretty much guarantee that you won’t be able to guess the ending, which is a huge surprise.
For once, I have nothing to criticize about a book’s ending because Eoin Colfer was able to finish it in a pinch.I give this book 5/5 stars.
The main character is 14 year old Cosmo Hill, named by the place where he was found in, escaped "prisoner" from the Clarissa Frayne Institute for Parentally Challenged Boys.
Escaped and saved from the blue creatures who seem to be sucking the life out of you by a group called The Supernaturalist.
The book was easy to read.
The characters werent that complicated but i found them intriguing.
All in all I hope one day he might write a sequel to it, because im very interested to hear more of them.read: in english
This book resonated as more of the same disgusting/dark future tale with just a different mystery about it.
I think that the major problem I had was that I felt I was just too old for this book when I read it.
A no-sponsor, a boy who's parents are gone, narrates the story.
The book follows his story, and I would say more, but I won't, because it would be unfortunate to give anything away about this predicable book.
p.s. One note of originality, I did quite enjoy the lawyers transformation in this novel (view spoiler)[ they are gun-slinging ninjas that arrive at the scene before paramedics hahahhahah  (hide spoiler)]
A team of minors hunting down invisible creatures in a dystopian world in a story filled with fun sci-fi technology.This is pretty much a story before its time.
I booktalked this to middle schoolers (alongside the graphic novel adaptation) in January 2014 and even though it's ten years old, it's taking off in my community.
There are some very interesting characters in this band of outsiders, and the invisible creatures are creepy, in the way that locust swarms are creepy.
It's the kind of book that could go places.
Leaving the reader wanting more is a sign of a good book.
I think it was an okay book but got kind of confusing because everything is happening really fast.
It's not my favorite book, but is worth reading.
It has a lot of action in it which I like.
It is about a 14 year old teen named Cosmo Hill who is an orphan that is unwanted by his parents and is sent to an institute for Parentally Challenged Boys.
A fun book.
The book has a lot of characters running and escaping the institute and more.
Once you start reading it you wont want to stop.
My Actual Rating: 3.5The Supernaturalist is a good book, but it's definitely written for a younger audience.
Another flaw of the book is that the character development is not as strong as it could have been.
For those of you who've also read any Artemis Fowl books, you'll note that Artemis Fowl and Co. have far more developed characters.Despite the transparency of the plot and the shallow characterization, the dialogue is delightfully witty - especially Ditto's lines; the descriptions are colorful (there are mentions of the Batcave and Thor's hammer); and the lore and world of the dystopian future is intriguing.
Sci-fi od Colfera je trochu jiný šálek kávy, než na jaký jsem zvyklý. Ale koneckonců se mi to líbilo. Jen mám menší tušení, že mladší čtenáři nebudou mít díky všemožným vědeckým termínům šajn, co v danou chvíli hlavní hrdinové provádí.
Mijn recensie kan je hier lezen:http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
Not bad, really, but not as good as his other books.
However the plot dictated otherwise.
This plot didn't seem to know where it wanted to go.
Perhaps it was following too many characters for the story length?
Or maybe the story ended up being too big for the page count.
I just know I felt like random twists kept coming out of nowhere, and I didn't feel like the characters got any resolution by the end.
Still enjoyable to read, but not as memorable or inspiring as I've found Colfer to be in other books/series.
Hän on saanut nimensä löytöpaikkansa mukaan (Cosmonaut Hill) ja koska hänen vanhempiaan ei voitu jäljittää DNA-arkistosta, poika päätyi Clarissa Fraynen koulukotiin hoitajarajoitteisille pojille.
Koska Cosmo on jo 14-vuotias, eikä kukaan halua häntä enää adoptoida, on ainoa vaihtoehto paeta, ennen kuin orpojen syömä ruoka ehtii tuhota hänen elimistönsä - orpojen keski-ikä on vain 15 vuotta.Jos Romutarha oli tulevaisuuden kaupunki, hän lähtisi koska vaan menneisyyteen.
Hän oli kuin pienoiskokoinen Frankensteinin hirviö.
Mutta vaikka teoksessa onkin hieno miljöö, vähintään yksi kiinnostava hahmo ja pari suurta, odottamatonta käännettä, se jokin jäi puuttumaan, jotta lukukokemus olisi ollut vieläkin parempi.
DNF at pg 50 I'm sorry Colfer, but I just can't do it. It's just so cheesy
I thought this book was alright, but it wasn’t for me. I just didn’t enjoy it.
I was supernaturally hooked with this one. Review will come soon.With this book, I’m now officially a  firm  fan of Eoin Colfer! Hooray!It has great plot about an orphan and a group of teenagers against the parasites that are only visible to selected few individuals. Or are they really against the right opponent? Or are they just beating around the bush. The story takes us to discovering the truth about the parasites and the story of each supernaturalist.A must read for all ages.#EColferFanHere
He grew up in the Clarissa Frayne Institute for Parentally Challenged Boys, Freight class, in Satellite city; a future city that it has everything the body needs and nothing what the soul wants; Steel buildings, advanced technology for everything, multibillion corporation terror, and polluted air.
These Supernaturalists are a group of kids who all have the same special ability as Cosmo-they can see supernatural Parasites, creatures that feed on the life force of humans, and the same creatures Cosmo saw on top of his friend before he died.
Cosmo and the Supernaturalists are outraged by this and stop Ellen Faustino.
In my opinion this book is one of my favorites because of the way the author tells the story in the 3rd person.
What I like about his style is that he uses the third person to tell the story.
I personally like all the characters in the story.
Cosmo’s personality is that he is honest, brave and he also he has what it takes to be a leader.The setting of this book is different from the world we know because it takes place in the future and honestly I do not think anyone knows how the world will look in the future.
