https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368632.The_Sacred_Mushroom_and_the_Cross
After initial acclaim, he was ostracized for carrying that work to its conclusion.He keeps the book very much on topic.
He only wants to understand the oldest languages that we know about and they just happen to be used to write these religious and Greek myths.His work is very well researched.
If they are only armed with a Webster's dictionary, good luck to them.If you ever have a psychedelic experience and you are at all familiar with biblical myths, you get the vague feeling that this must be what they were talking about.
Allegro shows you with the language that it is exactly what they were talking about.
Wow. John Marco Allegro was the only non-Catholic member to help translate The Dead Sea Scrolls, and when he found the Sumerian glyphs that represented mushrooms and peered deeper into the text, he underwent an existential reforming, radically changing and casting off his Protestant beliefs.
Yet as I read this amazing scholar's main work, I couldn't help but think that he was pressing his new-found dogma too hard, and that it would fall upon deaf ears.
As scrolls are eaten in a book of Eziekial, and a coin is found in the mouth of a fish, Allegro asserts that all these were obviously pointing to the Amanita Muscaria...
Heavy going and really this man is a scholar. The fact is it ended his career because people prefer a simple lie to a complicated truth.I thought the book was astounding.
Although I'd picked up some Greek, I'd not even begun to study Hebrew, not to mention the other, older languages.What I could appreciate, however, was Allegro's defense of the notion that much of what appears to be obscure and outrageous ancient religious literature is, in fact, experientially based and relevant to the concerns of real life.
In other words, the use of psychotropic plants could certainly result in strong beliefs about other worlds or dimensions, even of other sentiences, and fertility is certainly of major concern to all agricultural communities.While this book will be beyond most readers as it was for me, most of Allegro's other works are quite accessible.
One day people will look back on this book and realize that it was the beginning of the revelation of the true history of RELIGION and Christianity!!! .........one day.
Obviously, this book ruffled a lot of feathers when it arrived on the scene, so there's books written to debunk what's brought up, so there seems to be a whole lot to explore regarding this subject.Also, WHY THE FUCK ISN'T THIS BOOK IN PRINT!?
Do people ever bootleg books like they do records?
I could print a new edition of this book, market it to head shops, etc.
and make a fortune, 'cause I don't think many people, especially young folk interested in mind-expanding substances, are aware of Allego's suggestions.

Many people believe he deliberately wrote this sensationalistic book to generate badly needed money.
But this book?
Perhaps he only wrote it after having partaken of the mushroom himself.See http://books.google.com/books?id=ZLSj...It will give you leads to articles about what his colleagues thought of this book.Now let me be clear about one thing.
But rather than deception, I think perhaps the old testament writers simply believed it was the universal truth & felt no need to credit any foreign sources.
But veiled references to secret ceremonies with "knowledge"from having partaken in a hallucinogenic substance?
I have been a fan of Allegro for some time so I was already aware of his theories before reading this book.
I did enjoy it, but some parts were a struggle to get through, especially the many Sumerian and Semitic names for fungus!
I enjoyed his opinions on the early Islamic movements in connection to magical shrooms very much, and I loved learning some Sumerian language.
Through the use of 'drugs' in our diet at the earliest part of our history a new world outlook was born, art and religion can trace its origins to such a time, The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross is a good book to read if you are interested to see how this very ancient knowledge lingered before becoming lost in translation.
What more can I say about this book that hasn't been written?
The book's basic argument is that the bible is a fossil or a play that got built up from older cults and stories and bad translations--a huge game of telephone--and that by studying its linguistic predecessors, we can understand the strange stories of the Judeo-Christian tradition.
Are you really seriously suggesting that Jesus Christ was a mushroom?"Allegro: "Ah, put pretty blankly, yes."Still, even if you ignore all mushroom stuff, the arguments against historical accuracy of the life and times of Jesus are worth reading.
"Jesus Christ is a title, like 'managing director.'"
Astoundingly absurd. The quest to find references to the amanita muscaria in Sumerian hidden in the Greek text of the New Testament must have originated in a little personal testing of the mushroom.
Scholarly and informative very interesting.
This was clearly very well researched book, the evidence of all that research filling up the second half of the book. I think the proofs contained herein are very relevant and important for our understanding of religion, history, and belief systems. I wish more people would read this book, and more people would research these topics, but unfortunately we seem to be surrounded by ostriches, and this book will continue to be largely overlooked.All hail the magic mushrooms! The word made flesh!
ehhh..Good hypothsis concidering Soma use in the vedas and ambrosia theories from the Greek texts. I say why not but to what extent. Conspiracy folks love books like this. But having read both Ancient Near Eastern and Greek ritual texts with translations more current I belive Allegro is stretching some things to the limits. Neither this nor that but both and.
I grew up with Christianity forcefully shoved down my throat despite frequent and vigorous protests.
I no longer hold the stark views against Christianity that I did in my youth.
If someone honestly reads Allegro's text with this in mind, it's hard to see how he can be totally wrong.Next, I plan to read "The Dead Sea Scrolls & The Christian Myth", also by Allegro.
I've heard that this book is more approachable than "The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross".
I'm hoping this will further build on and better flesh out the narrative he creates in "Sacred Mushroom".
I embrace my desire toI embrace my desire to feel the rhythm, to feel connectedEnough to step aside and weep like a widowTo feel inspired, to fathom the power,To witness the beauty, to bathe in the fountain,To swing on the spiral, to swing on the spiral,To swing on the spiral of our divinity and still be a human.Spiral out. Keep going.Spiral out. Keep going.Spiral out. Keep going.Spiral out. Keep going.
This book is complete nonsense! But it is interesting and a good read. I don't understand how a respected scholar could suddenly come out with this. On a side note, I think Philip K. Dick must've read it at some point.
I don't know how many of Allegro's conclusions are true, and the evidence to prove or disprove most of these beliefs has likely been forever lost in time. However, the book is astounding and compelling. Certainly not for anyone who is set in their religious views, but for agnostics and atheists, it is worth a read.
This is a wonderfully strange and incredibly fascinating book, and the degree to which Allegro is right is less important to me than the pleasure of re-thinking ancient myths and mystery religions in this way.
plausible
amazing
Close to the end, I decided I'd gotten Allegro's point as well as I could expect to, and any further reading would merely confuse me further.With only an English-department-mandated amount of linguistics background, coming to this book was incredibly difficult.
Due to my inability to understand his complex linguistics, I remain unconvinced.The book is written as well as one can expect; Allegro does appear to be trying to offer his information as clearly, succinctly, and simply as possible.
Again, however, I do not have the linguistic background necessary to make any claims about his scholarship.As an introduction to this theory, The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross is not an easy book to read.
"If then, there seems little in the picture drawn for us of first-century Christians by contemporary pagan historians that is in any way attractive, how far were the writers of the New Testament homilies serious in their advocacy of love towards all men, and turning the other cheek?
Was it valid, if at all, only for members of the closed communities, as the Essenes were told to love one another but detest the outsider?Perhaps even more fundamentally, now that we no longer need to view the Bible through the mists of piety, does it really matter in the twentieth century whether the adherents of this strange Judaeo Christian drug cult thought their community ethics valid for the world at large, or not?
I actually started reading this book while getting my masters degree.
the beginning is very much on the nature of language and how words and their meanings change over time.
or more importantly, how their original meanings get lost.
I did not read the whole book yet.
its is a little hard to read with so many entheogenist terms in it..
and the book has been long out of print and really hard to find..
If you read this book, you will find out that Jesus was actually a psychodelic mushroom called Amanita.
The evidence is expansive but esoteric and reads as such.
Allegro's chock-a-block with ideas, but their far reach, similarly, makes it difficult to separate the signal from the noise for the reader, though he seems determined that he's right.
Reading it now, the book seems almost quaint a series of ideas and what-ifs without engaging with the actual complexity that the research digs up.
What if these series of encoded messages are not just about God but about us?, is the biggest one.
Somehow the human seems the farthest from his reach.
This is an intriguing book that inspired a lot of controversy. I do not necessarily agree with all of it; in fact, I think the case is overstated. But Allegro was on to something and brave enough to put out a book that cost him his career. His book and his method open up alternative ways of thinking and it's useful for that. My lack Sumerian knowledge among other languages make it difficult to follow his arguments so I won't condemn or ascribe to the argument.
basically every reference in the bible is to a mushroom, penis, womb, or fertility. I did appreciate the analogy that like Jesus, the mushroom is born of a virgin (without seed) and he who eats of the flesh (amanita muscaria) will be like God. even the cover of the book is a copy of an ancient Christian depiction of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil being a mushroom.
Perhaps the greatest work of scholarship I have ever experienced. At first the proposition and implications seemed ludicrous, even to a devotee such as myself. However, although I am in no position to corroborate interpretations of Sumerian cuneiform, Allegro puts the pieces together so thoroughly that I was forced to submit in awe to this highly developed intellect.
Were the gospels actually a collection of coded recipes for psychedlic mushrooms misinterpeted as a literal narrative?
very thought provoking
