https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12615008-revolution-2020
To say that the story is extremely shallow might be the understatement of the year.Two boys try to get into IIT/NIT in order to become engineers.
Bhagat implies it on every page that it’s either IIT/NIT or bust.
If you cannot get into IIT/NITs, the only option left is private colleges or to become a watchman (Seriously, he wrote that).
Does Bhagat even know the admission procedure in engineering colleges of India?
Because his stories do implicate that these are the most under researched works of literature ever to come out of India.
From Five Point Someone: What Not to Do at IIT to Revolution 2020: Love, Corruption, Ambition, Chetan Bhagat is- as Times Of India rightly puts it- the rockstar of Indian publishing.
Revolution 2020: Love, Corruption, Ambition is going the be the new 'brand' of the Indian youth.
He will have a special place in the readers' hearts for just being who he wants to be.Gopal, our main hero or villain or as Chetan Bhagat rightly puts in the end- "I'll let the readers decide how they want to consider you.
Made a me cry tonnes, still red eyed :) CB knows the art of strumming heart's strings. Definitely worth a read
hlf done....its boring!!!!!a bigggg disappointment...i jus realise i dint update dis review ....lolzz its fully done.....stil boring!!!!!! (lolzz)evn bigger disappointment.....lolzzzz (donno y m stil laughing )
And well, was I disappointed?At the end of the read (296 pages, takes some 4-5 hours) I merely shrugged my shoulders, nodded my head and smiled..cos Chetan Bhagat does it again!
Writes a book instead of a movie script!!The setting of Varanasi, using names that all Indians can correlate to, and pitching in a love story where love is expressed and yet not winning is the magic formula for this one.Gopal, the lead character, is supposed to be having some grey shades.
Unfortunately, CB fails in creating neither a positive or negative character outa him.
Why oh why must everyone keep harping on the darn issue of men and women cant be friends?If they are friends now, then they are either a) will become lovers eventually.
b) one of them will manipulate the other to get money/convenience/sex.I am a woman, with I think at least as many men friends as women.
I have managed to keep my friends (both men and women), without resorting to hugging or kissing them frequently, letting any of them pay for my cups of coffee constantly, and taking advantage of them manipulatively.
Why must we keep on having this plot where the female friend keeps confusing the boy with "i miss you"s?
The triangle love between Gopal , Aarthi and Raghav...Very good fiction that makes me to feel like in reality....when i started reading this book .
though she a DM daughter he is had well settled family.The girl the problem for the both guys who makes some twist in there life and raghav and gopal clash and finally gopal gives the great satisfaction makes the book more effective ...and love the epilogue too...that chetan bhagat finally sees aarthi and raghav's pic and final dialogue...
this was a good chetan bhagat book. the ending wasnt convincing. Country over love so suddenly didnt appeal to me
Revolution 2020???
Love?, Ambition?, Money?A really heart touching story driven by Chetan Bhagat.The first time in my life i was not able to control my emotions at the end of the story & resulted into frustrate which became serious concern to my Parents seating beside me.
Every time Chetan Bhagat comes out with a new book, he manages to capture the interest and the awe of today’s youth.
Every book brings out a bigger level of expectation than the one before.
It’s a tale of three childhood friends, Gopal, Aarti and Raghav, who struggle to find their place in Varanasi.
This story is about three friends who grow up in holy city of Varanasi.
Two of the boys, both love the same girl, their third friend and girl is completely confused about both of them.
Whether you love it or hate it, you'll end up reading it.
When I arrived at "A book with bad reviews", I would have been betraying everything I stand for as a human being if I had not selected a Chetan Bhagat novel.
So, with the indulgent chuckle of a sommelier sipping a mango lassi, a Chetan Bhagat I did choose: the one with the tackiest cover and the second-tackiest title, to be precise.How can I describe my vast and unimaginable horror on discovering that the book was mildly engaging?
Yes, it is a mercy that the abominable sentence construction still persists.
But I am forever altered by the knowledge that Chetan Bhagat used "macabre" in a sentence.
2.5 stars is the most i can give it to dis book..!!When you pick a chetan bhagat's book, you dnt expect that the book would be intellectual or have good english literature..!
So dnt expect these..!!The story is abt three childhood frndz Gopal, Raghav and Aarti..!The story is told frm Gopal's point of view.
frm her goals to the person she actually loves..!The problem is that both of them loves the same gal Aarti..!!The starting and ending of the story is pretty good.
:(There is nothing new in dis book to cherish..!
Storyline: Revolution 2020 is a story about 3 childhood friends Gopal, Raghav and Aarti.
I didn't even expect that the book focuses on the IIT coaching institutes.Most of the story took place in Varanasi except for some part in Kota.This book has many shades.
It ended with a message that “Everyone should sacrifice a bit for the change they want to see.” On the other side it shows how the relation among Gopi, Raghav and changes dramatically as the story precedes.
Pretentious idealism crossed with clear dreams of a Bollywood adaptation.
And yet Bhagat talks of a revolution.
How I ask, with that content in your book, do you intend on stirring people into a revolution?
All you do is point out the obvious flaws noticeable to everyone, what have you suggested to battle it?
I'll go out on a limb here and call Chetan Bhagat an idiot.
Usually, I avoid namecalling authors but he does consider himself to be India's literary saviour, prides himself on it infact and hands us this pseudo-idealistic garbage.
Please, NO.Better watch the Hindi movies of the 60's and 70's.
Two words: terrible book.
Chetan Bhagat's heroines are horny, good looking, birdbrained creatures who inspire contempt in me and I absolutely dote on Bhagat for his vivid imagination in developing such chimeras.
Still I have read all of his works and follow his articles on regular basis.The Cover Design by Rachita Rakyan is good.....I knew from the cover itself that which city was there in the backdrop.After reality shows like KBC, now authors trying to lure the audience from small town India....So CB has set the story in Varanasi...and a part of it in Kota.R2020 is the story of three childhood friends - Gopal, Raghav and Aarti......their different path of life....their struggle to achieve their dreams.
I liked a Chetan Bhagat book. (Confesses and dies).:PRupa has given Chetan a better editorial team this time around. But really, not bad at all and very apt for the current mood in the country with the anti-corruption drive.
Okayish Novel. One time read.
I was just humbugged by the reviews given by my frnds & others....it was just waste of time....i dont no why the story is so horrible...
Storyline: Revolution 2020 is a story about 3 childhood friends Gopal, Raghav and Aarti.
Raghav fights back and starts his own newspaper...Revolution 2020!!Both Raghav and Gopi like Aarti.
Aarti likes Raghav and Gopi was her best friend.
I didn't even expect that the book focuses on the IIT coaching institutes.Most of the story took place in Varanasi except for some part in Kota.This book has many shades.
It ended with a message that “Everyone should sacrifice a bit for the change they want to see.” On the other side it shows how the relation among Gopi, Raghav and changes dramatically as the story precedes.
If you really love, let it go.
This is not my theory at all but a conclusion I perceive the author believes based on reading this book.
When you read a book were the three main characters are two guys and a girl you kind of have an idea of where the plot will take you.
The girl will be the adored prize for which the two guys will duel.
This story is no different.
The two guys are Gopal and Raghav.
The source of their admiration and desire is Aarti.
It's a coming of age story in the way that thi
This is not my theory at all but a conclusion I perceive the author believes based on reading this book.
When you read a book were the three main characters are two guys and a girl you kind of have an idea of where the plot will take you.
The girl will be the adored prize for which the two guys will duel.
Yes, I will read other books by this author.
Yes, I do recommend this if you like reading Indian themed books.
Totally HATE the ending!
One of them is intelligent and wants to start a revolution, another one wants to make lots of money.
The girl is besties with the guy who wants to make money and is in love with guy who wants to start a revolution.
The guy who wants to make money is madly in love and devoted to the girl.
I am not sure about the girls but guys would definitely find the story very interesting because it touches some of the stuff which most of us have faced in life - complicated fucked up relationship.
Many of the students out there would be able to identify with the main characters failure in getting an admission into an iit or getting a better rank.It very rightly brings out the issues of corruption in the Indian educational system.
As the main character gopal says that you may find me villain in these story, and rightly so for almost first 150 pages you would agree with his views but in the end your views would be completely different.All the hatred for gopal turns into sympathy towards the end.
The inside humor will make u giggle and people around u will give u peculiar stares!!I got what I wanted from this book!!
A solid cute begining, felt boring in the middle and again a gripping ending!!
The romance mixed with a pinch of humor is the trademark of CB!!
U will definitely have required amounts of the same in this book!!
All elements were handled well and can't complain much (except for few chapters)!!Though its not upto the mark of two states, I can say it ended better than five point someone!!
so far i usually think people who berate chetan bhagat are being literary snobs.
after all any book that entertains is good.
but now.....this book is awful!........not a single character has depth.
i give it one star instead of zero stars because it did give me some info about varanasi, kota and about setting up of private colleges.......which is all so true and so relevant......only wish he had hired a ghost writer to write a book about these points......i wonder if he did use one to write 2 states which i liked because it made me laugh out loud quite a few times!!
This is the best book in the CB category so far.The reason is the cleanliness of plot (Not that clean but still cleaner than the rest) and simplicity of minds.I liked the character of Gopal because other 2 have got nothing much to do in the story.I don't understand, why CB revolves around IIT preparation, exams and more often sexual activities.If he avoids this thing he can be a literary legend(Not to forget his up to the mark English), it was a sarcasm by me.I can't stop laughing on the way he writes.However, you can think of reading this book.
The part I really enjoyed from this book is where the protagonist spends his days in Kota. The IIT craze is exceptionally described. Really loved it. A bit boring when the protagonist starts opening college or whatever. Skipped those pages. 3-star due to JEE preparation at Kota scenes.
Original rating: 3.5 starsOkay I must admit it that the love story and the triangle were a cliche but apart from that the way he incorporated the idea of revolution in the story , was witty .
The author gave us a perspective from which we could not just follow the better thing but he rather gave us a comparison of two different situations and gave us a choice.
A choice to live in the system or to change the system.
He showed us how we could bring change by just doing our part .
Some might say that the story describes the Indian situation only but I think it addresses a worldwide phenomenon.
