https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22076.From_a_Buick_8
Call it King Casserole Surprise.The story here is told to the teenage son of a Pennsylvania State Police Trooper who was killed in the line of duty, and it’s about a strange car that his father impounded twenty years before.
The story makes it clear that the car and it’s occasional crazy happening became just part of the routine for everyone who knew it was back there, but then King has to have it unleash unspeakable horrors a couple of times which make it hard to believe that anyone could just go to work every day knowing it was back there instead of just being an oddity they deal with once in a while.
2.5 StarsOMGOSH, I really can't believe I'm rating a Stephen King novel 2.5 Stars, but From A Buick 8 turned out to be a real "clunker" of a read for me.The story begins enticingly when a mysterious man dressed in black rolls into a gas station for a fill-up and forthwith disappears leaving his evil vintage car behind. Unfortunately though, except for a few freaky monster moments and light shows, the plot was long, lacking and laborious.A rare disappointment from The King!
What's important here is the draw, the raw fascination that comes with the unknown.It's a mistake to compare Buick 8 to Christine simply because the two stories are about cars.
For one thing, the Buick isn't really a car...
Christine was full of murderous rage, both possessed by and possessing her owners - the Buick is never conclusively considered sentient.A further difference between Christine and Buick, is the ending - Christine is a fully formed story, with a beginning, lots of guts, and the perfect horror-story ending.
Buick is a story about how stories really unfold (an increasing preoccupation in King's writing) and how they don't necessarily come tied up neatly with all four corners properly inside the wrapping.
Although From a Buick 8 isn't my favourite King book and I think it could have done more to be original and memorable, I still really enjoyed reading it.
What really brings From a Buick 8 to life in every respect are its characters and the connections they have together, although the sci-fi and fantasy aspects were also quite interesting.Books like these often start out with the best ambitious ideas but the idea itself can't really hold up a whole book.
Nonetheless, King does manage to bring this intriguing story to life with his usual horror magic, focusing on so many aspects.
There are many problems with this book, but they can all be summed up with a quote from the actual text:From page 297 of the hardcover, third paragraph, starting fourth sentence in: But--this is important--tell me a story, one that has a beginning and a middle and an end where everything is explained.
King spends a great deal of this book explaining to the reader that there's not always a definitive ending.
It doesn't mean I have to like it.Listen, friends and neighbors, I can get behind a short story or a novella that leaves me with an unsatisfactory ending because they aren't time sinks.
From a Buick 8 is a book that tells us that there is not necessary foreshadowing or hidden agenda within its prose, just a story, plain and simple.From a Buick 8 has very complex and realistic characters, which I expected from Stephen King.
It is what it is, and that is just that.What this book did amazingly at was creating characters that were believable, the monsters were nightmarish and grotesquely described, and the ending wrapped up the story nicely with some feels to go along with it.
I don't think this is the best novel I've read. It's not even Stephen King's best. It is my favorite though. It's the novel I've reread most often. This was at least my fifteenth reading of it and I still had fun.
A veces, cuando alguien lo pasa mal, le ayudan más personas de las que esperaba. Y a veces, aun así, no es suficiente. Empezaba tan bien este libro... Al principio pensaba que me iba a encantar, pero a medida que avanzaba se me hacía cada vez más aburrido. Lo bueno es que no es pesado, entonces se puede leer rápido. No obstante, en relación con la historia, es muy lenta y repetitiva. Lo siento, Steve, pero no me gustó.
They serve a new four-course meal each time you visit (the fourth being dessert) and you always leave feeling full and satisfied.
But this time you notice the "Under New Management" sign.
You push through it, because dessert is your favorite.
Sometimes its flavors are elusive, mysterious, and that makes it just as delicious.The waiter removes the empty plate that held the third course and suddenly the "New Management" is standing at your table, smiling."Sir," he says, "there will be no dessert tonight, I'm afraid.
Meanwhile, the chef is frowning from the kitchen and complaining how much fun he had making it and that should be enough.I get it.
Buick 8 is about dealing with loss; whether you allow yourself to move on from death or let it become your life; themes explored in an earlier King novel 'Pet Sematary' as well as in 'Revival'.
Overall, the novel lacks the action found in works like 'Misery' or 'The Dark Half' but is heavy on structure & characters & themes, I will re-read with glee.
To me, King will be remembered by literary snobs for three of his novels: 'Bag of Bones', 'Hearts in Atlantis', and 'From a Buick 8'.
If you're looking for one of those quick, enjoyable King fixes that we all know and love, this is not the book I'd recommend.
I read it because it was the book selection of the month for the group and I would have eventually read it anyway.I really wanted to rip this book apart and rate it a 1 star but that's really a knee-jerk reaction to my frustration at the slowness of the storytelling and the lack of a big, satisfying conclusion.
I'd say if you're a King fan, go ahead and pick this sucker up...eventually, you know when you have absolutely nothing else to do or read.
I know. I know. I'm reading it anyway.
but sometimes I wonder how much of this was also due to the fact that he was specifically going for just that reaction, more even than trying to tell a story, or fashion a sentence.
as if the very fact of their being unable to finish a book was itself evidence of its literary deficiencies.(Original Review)A much better book than most people think ...
It's ridiculous to say "nothing happens" in this book just because (a) the action is subtler than most SK novels, and (b) the plot unfolds mostly through the telling of narrators relating stories of the past.
and nobody would try to argue that "nothing happens" in that book.
One-idea book tires -- way too long for small plot...Like a burlesque sketch that is funny for a minute or two but gets boring when nothing new happens for another half hour, King gives us an interesting premise that goes almost nowhere for the rest of the book.
As far as we're concerned, this tale would have fit nicely into one of Kings many short story compilations; but we didn't feel the story and events were meaty enough to warrant some 350 pages, culminating in a fairly lackluster ending.This was by no means one of King's scary, suspenseful, gripping novels of the bizarre and terrible -- it was just one small idea that burned brightly for a few minutes then went out.
I can see why some Stephen King fans found this book unsatisfactory.
It dares to tell a story that ends on a question mark, and challenges and subverts all the standard tropes of the standard horror novel.
However, to me these are the very things that make the book stand out as it does - in fact, I think this may be the most interesting and adventurous of King's novels so far (and yes, I count myself a fan).
I think it's an extraordinary piece of literary fiction - and published under a different name, would probably have won awards.
Stephen King does such a good job of creating and fleshing out characters, I feel like I know them, this whole story felt like I was there at the barracks, sitting on the smoking bench with the group while they told their story.
The car was what made me keep flying through the pages, desperately clinging to the hope that I would get some answers, just like Curt and Ned, even though I knew I wouldn't get the answers I wanted.
What other world did the car belong to, I wanted more than the tiny glimpse Sandy Dearborn got into that world towards the end.
اعلم انني العربية الوحيدة في قراء ستيفن كينج التي تجرأت و كتبت بالعربية،لكن خلف ذلك سر صغير..اود ان 
You don't have a be Stephen King fan to enjoy this book. The plot was intriguing, the characters were likeable, and the story involves a true mystery. This is the kind of story that only Stephen King could pull off successfully. Make no mistake - this is not "Christine" revisited. This is a whole-new, remarkable story about a not-of-the-world Buick... but, not really a Buick. The story revolves as much around the complex lives of its characters as it does the mysterious Buick... that's not really a Buick. I enjoyed this book thoroughly.
Quite a bit of supernatural WTFery is used to explain, but I love it.The reason I explained all that is that I feel this was King’s practice for The Colorado Kid. Nothing much happens in Buick 8.
When the Buick actually takes a few things from our world back to wherever it came from, the troopers cover that up as well.The reason I feel this book shares so much with The Colorado Kid is that there is no resolution.
We never know where the car came from, how it got here, why it’s here in the first place, and really we get no end to the story.
(King doesn't start with a plot line fixed, he creates as he goes along so he says in 'On Writing')This development does not happen in 'From a Buick 8' Perhaps it has something to do with the way the narrative is told- all in flashback; but what we stay with is the initial situation- weird car- and it doesn't develop into anything like a plot.This may have been sustainable in short story format but it sure as hell don't cut the mustard (to use a King-ism) in a novel of this length.
This trope came up more and more as the book progressed- I think King realised that he couldn't develop the tale in a interesting way- and lo and behold: there are no answers at the end of the book.
This book grabbed me immediately, and sucked me in, then about a third of the way in I thought, ok, this is going nowhere and I am going to be let down.
There was nothing really happenning and I could feel that it was just going to be a LONG short story.
Then about 2/3 of the way through, I realized what was happenning: I became a character in the book.
King was able to imprint in me the same mindset that Ned and his father shared, it was eerie and magical at the same time.
Once this happenned, the story fed itself to me.
However, it also had good aspects and it was better than what I was expecting.YES, it was slow -I say it again-, but it arose many questions and that made it intriguing too.
I loved the friendship between the members of Troop D, and the way they kept that secret between them during all those years, and the experiments they made.The "abortions" were fascinating but I wanted to know how was the other side -the side where they came from-, and I would have liked if Stephen King had explored that.
I was expecting this to be one such book, meaning I was more than a little bit surprised when I managed to go against everyone who seems to think it is a rather drab book.It is a slow starter.
In a way, the book can be seen as being a little bit like Inception.
The changes in time and the changes in the people sharing the details is what made this book.Don’t get me wrong, it’s not the kind of horror that most people associate with King.

I either love Stephen King books or hate them....and this was one I loved! Not over the top, had a brilliant story line and had my emotions all over the place. A real classic. This and The Green Mile are my favourite King books and would recommend this to anyone.
Pomalo sam bila skeptična oko toga kako će radnja biti građena oko jednog običnog automobila, ali kako sam se samo prevarila - Bjuik je sve, samo ne običan.U Statleru, (izmišljenom) gradiću u Pensilvaniji, četa D predstavlja lokalni policijski ogranak čiji su članovi, redovni pripadnici policijske jedinice, međusobno povezani poput porodice - vode računa jedni o drugima tokom smene i onda kada se ista završi.
Kako dan polako teče, tako se priče nižu i otkrivaju puno o odnosu koji je četa imala prema automobilu, uz sve neprijatnosti i opasnosti koje on predstavlja.Iako Bjuik 8 sa pravom zauzima centralnu priču, jači utisak ostavlja upravo traženje odgovora i ultimativno mirenje sa smrću.
From a Buick 8 is simply not that good.The book begins at a rural gas station in rural Pennsylvania with some backcountry characters whom King has such a way with telling.
Where they go, nobody knows.250 pages of the 356 page book focus on a detailed retelling of the history of this Buick 8, told to a young man, Ned, whose father was killed – by the car?
The car simply begins to age and rot, end of story.And there’s not much more to say about it.
It is simply a very remarkable story (short for King) about a strange car that doesn’t really do much, and has no real ending or explanation.
That was one of those days."From A Buick 8 is about a group of Pennsylvania State Troopers finding a "car" that seems to be some kind of portal between our world and some other scary Unknown world, and then keeping it secret as they try to figure out what exactly this car is.
This has been my least favourite King book so far.
I did enjoy the friendships and relationships between the State Troopers and how they tell the story of finding the Buick 8 and the resulting experiments they carried out with it.
I feel like I don't have much to say about this book...
The story starts with Sandy and the gang telling a story to young Ned Wilcox about his dad and a Buick Roadmaster that sits in a shed out back.
Unfortunately for King that is about all, there is to this story, It feels like a bunch of old farts reminiscing about the good old days and there is no beginning middle and end.
From a Buick 8 has too many sub-plots for some characters that are never mentioned again.Overall, this is not King's finest work.
I want a story that has a beginning a middle and end.
Some stories are meant to be ambiguous, this is one of them. I was under the impression that I hadn’t read this one yet, I was wrong. I enjoyed it, but I’ll probably forget it again.
