https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105021.The_Millstone
It comes from the Holy Bible, Matthew 18:6:“But whoso shall offend one of these little ones who believe in me, it were better that a millstone were hanged about his neck and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea”.It is this quotation which Margaret Drabble said was the inspiration for the title of her third novel, The Millstone, originally published in 1965.The novel speaks with the cultured voice of Rosamund Stacey, a well-brought-up and educated young Cambridge graduate, who is working on a PhD on Elizabethan sonnet sequences.
Neither is Rosamund Stacey particularly outgoing, or interested in parties and a social life, and until this sexual experience she had been a virgin.Rosamund is the daughter of liberal-minded, middle-class, socialist parents, who have gone abroad for a year on a philanthropic mission, allowing her to live rent-free in their spacious flat.

Its heroine Rosamund has an academic background similar to Drabble's and is cushioned by being able to live rent free in her travelling parents' London flat.In the first half of the book she drifts into a decision to keep the baby, and there is plenty of humour in the caricatured reactions of everyone she meets.
She conveniently acquires a flatmate in Lydia, an aspiring novelist who is discovered to be writing about her which allows a slightly metafictional layer to be developed.In the second half of the book the baby Octavia is born and Rosamund finds redemption in unexpected ways (none of which involve the various men she is involved with).I found this book interesting and very enjoyable - particularly so soon after reading her latest one The Dark Flood Rises last month.
This was just an ok read for me; I found it very dated, although can imagine that it raised a few eyebrows in its day.
I think I'm among the few who read this and got upset with the ending.
While the novel is readable and - at least for the four-fifths of its length - manages to be largely inoffensive for such a subject (single motherhood in the 60s), it ends with the kind of run-of-the-mill writing one associates with Mills and Boon romances.
I won't give the ending away, except to say that it reads like a meretricious pretence to profundity.
I think I can safely chuck her with the likes of Barbara Cartland.
But while Rosamund quickly comes to love her daughter, who she names after Octavia Hill, more trouble is around the corner when the child falls ill.The title obviously refers to the baby Octavia, whose existence will of course be seen by others as the millstone around her mother's neck.
Throughout the novel, Rosamund hears George's voice on the radio, considers calling him, feels even a gratitude towards him for bringing him her daughter but her love for Octavia supersedes anything she might have ever felt for him.Drabble has stated that the novel was intended to represent how motherhood 'turns you into something fiercer' and this does seem true for Rosamund, whose diffidence and uncertainty mark her as an unlikely heroine.
London in the early 1960s is a place where casual sex is becoming acceptable, but having a child out of wedlock is not.
Twenty-six year old scholar and doctoral student Rosamund Stacey is dating two men whose company she enjoys, but she’s really not interested in getting physical with either one.
Like Austen’s heroines, Rosamund is comfortably middle class, but unlike them she is not surrounded by family.
Rosamund is aware that her social position has allowed her to make the choice to have child and career that would not be possible for others with less means and social connections.
The book was OK, but I didn't like the heroine much. The sort of person you wouldn't want to be friends with in real life.
Some slight charms in the representation of the heroine's social life, but that's it. Doesn't live up to its potential, such as it is. Floppy, drippy, mimsy, aimless.
This one is definitely comfort food. I don't think it was actually good, but I read it three times because I bought it when I was traveling and carried it from place to place for years afterward.
No sé qué decir de este libro. ¿Me ha gustado? Sí, porque el planteamiento es original y está bien escrito. Pero no he llegado a empatizar jamás con la protagonista, que me ha recordado a la de “El lenguaje de las flores”, una persona muy fría, con algún déficit en su forma de relacionarse con los demás.
I bought this principally because the author's the half-sister of A.S.Byatt (who is utterly wonderful) and I'd come across their work being compared, and it was priced at 30p. But it was utter sop. Unconvincing woman academic gets pregnant (the only time she has sex, ever), then finds complete fulfilment in her baby.. She could at least get some geeky stuff about Elizabethan poetry in, but no, we stick to baby adoration... Perhaps some of Margaret D's stuff is better - I'm pretty sure she was OBE'd before her sister, and thought well of critically?
Novela feminista sobre una madre soltera en el Londres de la liberación sexual y el pop de los 60. El delicado y complejo retrato psicológico que Drabble emprende a partir de su personaje le sirve para reivindicar la libertad de la mujer a partir de elementos que ahora pueden parecer paradójicos como cierta frigidez sexual, una maternidad no buscada o una posición social acomodada. La prosa de la autora es de una fluidez poco habitual.
I cared enough to read til the end but it was all kind of disjointed and meh.
Four and a half stars.
Goodness, I finished this book ages ago. It shows how long it must have been since I reviewed or even ventured more deeply into GR than just responding to comments on previous reviews. Perhaps I need to get my reviewing head on again. As to the book....well I know I enjoyed it but cannot say much more than that to my shame.,....so many books have flowed under the bridge since then. My apologies to Ms Drabble
Damn. I'm about to read a lot more of Margaret Drabble.
Nice slice of history and one of the more unabashedly enjoyable reads I have encountered in a long while.[As an aside, I have mixed feelings about the motherhood storyline and am unclear about what Drabble was trying to say about the importance of children to women...
I hope she wasn't suggesting that even those of us who feel little to no desire to have children will find ourselves unknowingly unfulfilled lest we do, but I allow that such an interpretation of the text is possible.)
The MillstoneSono venuta a conoscenza di questo libro perchè incuriosita dalla casa editrice Astoria che non conoscevo ma che, a quanto pare, pubblica delle piccole perle.
Non conoscevo neppure l'autrice, sorella minore della scrittrice A.
Mi è piaciuta moltissimo la delicatezza di questo libro, il riconoscermi in molti aspetti di Rosemund (il fatto di aver sempre paura di disturbare o scomodare gli altri, la difficoltà a chiedere aiuto) e come il processo di diventare madre l'abbia trasformata in una persona più consapevole.
Le paure si Rosamund vengono pian piano scansate dagli eventi, in una società in cui lo stesso ginecologo le chiede inorridito se, non avendo un marito, almeno i genitori sono a conoscenza del suo stato.
I remember reading it as a young woman.
In Czechoslovakia, getting a termination of pregnancy was simple, a freedom unusual in such a restrictive society.
And at the time of reading this very well written book, I was convinced that if I got pregnant, I would not keep the baby.I never really thought about it.This book made me think.
Suddenly, I was not so sure.Well, fortunately I was never put in that situation- I went n the pill after reading this book while carrying on using other precautions.I am a doctor,and have helped thousands of young women through their decisions.
I still believe it is the woman's choice.But this book shows that it is not that simple.
A touching tale of the love a mother has for her child despite difficult circumstances.
Although I have to say that this mother, for the 60s seemed very protected against the discrimination that she would have otherwise experienced.It was a well written story by a well known author and my first read by her.
I enjoyed it, but it didn't captivate me like other novels do.It did, however, make we wonder about the love bond between mother and child and made me feel I had missed some thing in my life.I'm not going to rush out and read all her novels.
This is a really delightful book; at times comic at times poignant. It follows Rosamund Stacey, a middle class intellectual who falls pregnant the first time she has genuine relations with a man. This is on the brink of the sexual revolution and she has to face the consequences and prejudices of her situation and era, something she is in a better position that most to do. It is beautifully written and in places manages to provide sharp social commentary alongside comic elements. Well worth reading.
Well, it has been said so much about it during years.What I like about Drabble is her simple yet distinctive style.. Witty and intelligent sentences in which one can easily find himself. It was a book of my youth,and still I read it from time to time... Strangely ,I still find it inspiring and same interesting, as if I am reading it for the first time.....Definately one of my favourite book ever
Margaret Drabble’s The Millstone begins with an introduction into the mindset of the narrator Rosamund, a scholar focusing on her PhD in Elizabethan sonnet sequences while living in her middle class parents flat in England.
Therefore, Rosamund’s experience in pregnancy and childbirth further acknowledges the realization of class differences playing an integral role in her success as a single mother.
In an interview by NPR, Tessa Hadley points out that the relevancy and appeal of The Millstone’s is because it “insists that you can be an intelligent woman with a rich life of the mind, and have a baby, and that those two things are not going to be set in some sort of tragic opposition” (“This Weekend”).
Lo leí como parte de un club literario feminista, fue la propuesta para hablar de la libertad de decisión de la mujer de ser madre, sin embargo sentí que en algún punto había aleccionamiento en cuanto al tener un hijo y lo importante y maravilloso que puede ser aunque no lo hubieses deseado.
Está bien escrito, usa buenos recursos, la historia tiene algunas partes con lugares comunes pero nada que moleste demasiado.
Si no lo hubiese leído en el contexto que lo hice quizás me hubiese parecido mejor, no me habría dado tanta cuenta de esos detalles que por momentos me llegaron a molestar.
This brief but punchy novel pinpoints a moment in London in the swinging 60s when casual sex was becoming acceptable, but single motherhood certainly was not.
It's a feminist parable although perhaps only for the upper middle class.
The narrative voice is so good - witty and compelling - it feels like a relic of its time and yet all of the things it documents (class, motherhood, maternity, sexuality) are still relevant today.
Drabble squeezes a lot into this novella (a monologue, really) making it a good candidate for book clubs or the sort of book you can return to every few years.
Rosamund Stacey, a young graduate student writing a thesis on the English Romantic poets, maintains a solitary and emotionally isolated existence in her parents' flat in London (her parents are living in Africa).
Drabble’s assured narrative—first person from Rosamund’s perspective—is touching, thoroughly engrossing, psychologically penetrating, and sometimes very funny, as the middle-class intellectual in Rosamund struggles with feelings and passions that often take her by surprise, and is shocked again and again to discover how profoundly ignorant she is about life in the trenches.
Sono stata ad Hay-on-Wye una piovosa giornata di inizio aprile e ho fatto incetta di libri, e tra la decina che ho comprato c'era anche questo.
Il motivo per cui l'ho comprato non è molto nobile - volevo un libro Penguin degli anni '70 e ho scelto questo perché il nome dell'autrice era apparso una volta in un articolo che avevo letto.
Se lo leggiamo tenendo in conto che comunque è stato scritto negli anni '60, non ci può non stupire l'argomento e non possiamo non immedesimarci in Rosamund, ragazza molto indipendente ma anche piena di dubbi e ossessionata dalla paura di disturbare le persone con qualsiasi richiesta.
This book is short, has only a small number of characters, which I liked.
I continued repeatedly reading this book for 7 times within 2 months since first reading it - such a case is very unusual for me.
Since 1997 when I first read it, I have read it over 15 times total over the next 10 years.
In the early stage of my English practice, this book was especially great for having been written in very refined, correct and good English.
I love a story like this where it's short, not many characters, thought-focused rather than incident-oriented.
At first, it's a trying read, since Rosamund - our narrator and heroine - seems so passive in the face of all aspects of her life.
It's a feminist parable for the upper middle class, since Rosamund gets to have her child and keep her life (she's a rising literary scholar), unlike many of the other women whose paths she crosses.
The fact that Rosamund - raised as a Champagne Socialist - is increasingly aware of the disparities of class, is yet one more way that she redeems herself from the sin of self-involvement with which she begins the book.
