https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60944.Meridian
Thought provoking..Educational..A great discussion book The inside cover over of this book says it was published in 1976 and this fits. I can see it. The Civil Rights 60's are over. What was The Movement has either died or morphed into something else. This book is almost a reflective look at its history, humble beginnings, the height and what became of it. All this metaphorically speaking through the protagonist character of Meridian, the books namesake. In an Alice Walker book, Alice is a good
Thought provoking..Educational..A great discussion book
In an Alice Walker book, Alice is a good story teller but you won't read one sentence that within its lines she isn't try to teach you a lesson.
Meridian also has a few close friends: Truman, Lynne, AnneMarion and even her mother who's very character existence and relationship to Meridian is metaphor for life in this time.
Meridian is a woman character but also she is the Civil Rights movement and all other characters and locations are their involvement and relationship to it.
It dips into places that are often raw and sometimes beyond comprehension.The novel is described as being about a woman named Meridian hill, an activist in civil rights work in the American South in the 60's.
I found that it was equally the story of the white woman Lynne, who also joined the Civil Rights Movement.This is not a 'read for pleasure' book, but more of an understanding of the distortion experienced in relationships affected by racism.The story zig-zags around in time and I found this confusing, as well as sometimes not knowing which character was now speaking.There's something of a tightness in the writing style, a containment that made me wonder what it would be like to write such a book.
Meridian, Walker’s second work of long fiction, is set against the turbulent backdrop of the civil rights movement, which gained force in the 1960s, triggering sit-ins, demonstrations, and protests against the racist and segregationist policies that controlled and shaped the lives of African Americans in the South.Meridian is in some respects autobiographical, but Walker and Meridian Hill, the novel’s protagonist, differ in many significant ways.
Like Meridian’s father, Walker has an abiding love of and respect for Native Americans and sees their plight as instructive and an important correlative to the black experience in the United States throughout the centuries.Walker’s various aesthetic and social concerns are harmoniously combined in Meridian, an exploration of a young woman’s coming of age and her journey from loneliness, guilt, and self-doubt, to self-acceptance, empowerment, and love.
Meridian Hill is only 17 when she has been married, pregnant and divorced, and after giving her child away, she becomes politically involved in the 60s civile rights issues...Hmm, I didn't really get the point of the book, I think...
The plot was very diffuse (well, the Swedish word 'flummig', which I never use, would be the most right word).
Not a very deep book, I would say...
I would have wanted to know more especially about Meridian and her feelings.
So all in all not a very easy book to read.
(Maybe I should go back to reading Alice Walker in Swedish...)
However the path to change for Meridian, like her people, is fraught with obstacles, not the least of which is her own community, filled with an assortment of unusual characters."The majority of black townspeople were sympathetic to the Movement from the first, and told Meridian she was doing a good thing...
Lynne, like many Jews who supported the civil rights movement, is one of the more fascinating characters, for me, as Walker digs deep into her psyche, revealing her motives for activism, a woman who suffers for the oppression of her people.
This is definitely a book I will have to read multiple times to catch all of the hidden themes and messages so I cannot give a complete review of my thoughts quiet yet. I will say, however, that Alice Walker stunned me with her uncanny ability to speak on behalf of the generation and to give voice to the needs of women everywhere. On the first go round I have to say this book was a delicious read.
The book that lit my activist fire...
I found the main character Meridian fascinating in this novel by the eminent Alice Walker.
Set in the early 60s to the late 60s -- this novel is about race, particularly about a black women undergoing personal and political changes.
However, this is a story of a powerful story of race in America made very personal -- similar to my novel and different.
LIE is primarily about the aftermath of a hate crime, of the white suburban response in the 21st century, now, told in immediate first person.
Meridian feels historical, or perhaps more a classic, but still powerful.
But I think LIE is more immediate.
At certain points throughout the book I thought to myself, I'll need to read this again.
With these characters though -Meridian Hill, Truman Held, and Lynne Rabinowitz - this novel gave me a three dimensional appreciation for the cancer that "race-thinking" has been for humanity, bloody Gobineau's of this world.
The inclusion of Lynne as a character and her rape by Tommy Odder was an interesting wrench to throw in the mix.
A lot of American novels simply ignore or write out the Native Americans, oddly enough, so this simply added to the list of things I appreciated about Meridian.
The book centers around a story of the struggle for black people to obtain the rights granted them by the Civil Rights Act in the American South.
The voter drives Meridian does reveal stories of rural black people who have no interest is suffrage while the realities of desegregation are laid bare.
"Freedom" is continually visited throughout the book.
At the end, a character in the story tells Meridian "Your ambivalence will always be deplored by people who consider themselves revolutionists, and your unorthodox behaviour will cause traditionalists to gnash their teeth." This is a beautifully complex novel.
Meridian Hill is a black woman in America's south, and the book relays in an non-linear style her involvement in the Civil Rights Movement as well as some other key characters in her life.
It is not just a book about race and rights, although that were enough as her depiction of the inhumanity with which black people were treated by white society and people, as well as the brutality meted out by those in the movement upon their white aggressors, is truly horrifying.
An insight into the civil rights movement from a different perspective. Brought back the 60's. Good writing , good read.
Intense & Passionate! I Loved It!
This is another one of my favorite books that I read many years ago.
This portrait of the Civil Rights Movement is not dewy-eyed and rose-colored; in fact, it's a political and personal landscape populated by, at best, complicated, and at worst, horrible, people.
The story seems to provide something of an inside scoop into what it was like to be a part of the Movement, but altogether, very, very little of it is about the day to day struggles in the fight for civil rights, as the messy interpersonal relationships of the fighters themselves dominate the text.
But the cacophony of her relationships with selfish and self-righteous people weigh her down, and the book and the action along with it.
Truman menikahi seorang kulit putih, Lynn, yang pada akhirnya berpisah juga, tapi di saat itu Truman juga sudah tidak bisa meraih hati Meridien.
Alice Walker menggambarkan perasaan ketiganya dengan hebat, pergumulan dalam hati Meridian -yang merasa dirinya sangat kompleks dan simpel di satu sisi dibanding hidup yg dijalaninya- , Truman -yang mencintai Lynn tapi INGIN mencintai -dan sebenarnya membutuhkan dan mencintai- Meridien dan emnjadikannya pasangan hidup, dan Lynn -wanita kulit putih yang merasa dirinya sangat cocok dengan kehidupan kulit hitam, dan membiarkan dirinya terbuang dari keluarganya atas pilihannya tersebut tapi akhirnya juga merasa kecewa pada teman kulit hitamnya.
"Meridian" is set in post civil rights black America but reaches back deeply at least two generations, and sometimes as far back as 1800's slavery.
Ms. Walker's language is incandescent, her story incendiary, her characters thoughtful and deeply provoking.
Like when I read James Baldwin for the first time, I was moved to racial rage many times, and I learned so much about how it was (is) for people of colour, and for those who loved them.
"Meridian" is yet a quick read, but "The Colour Purple" is a cut (or more) above.
Alice Walker is not afraid to tackle some challenging subject matter in this book - such as human rights, black history, feminism, motherhood and love.
She's a very human character - fallible, confused and capable of making bad choices but she possesses a calm, deep felt spirit that sets her apart from those around her.
Set in the American South during the civil rights movement it tells Meridians story as she falls in love, meets radical friends and becomes a mother.
I was eager to see the outcome of the book and Meridian's life and work.
In that aspect, the book wasn't so satisfying, but the beauty of the people who come to orbit around Meridian, the differences in their arcs, those were satisfying.
Walker also demonstrates organic human growth.
Our expectations of perfect understanding and step-by-step growth are too simple, too easy for the realities of our lives.
There is so much more to unpack in this book: color-ism, racism, interracial relationships, mother-daughter relationships, sexism, misogyny, civil rights, self-care, the body as politics, The South, etc., but I will leave that to those with more knowledge.
THE GOOD- Overall a great and inspiring read.
One thing I would note is that I felt the same core message came through for me in this book as the other two I have read.
A hopeful and inspiring story of a black woman's struggle to overcome her lot in life.
A story that shows with a little support and a lot of determination you can change your life for the better.
This isn't a bad thing, especially if this is what you love best about her books, but it is a recycled theme and the only thing holding it back from 5 stars.
"Is there no place in a revolution for a person who cannot kill?"Meridian follows the lives of young people involved in the civil rights movement during the 1960's.
The prejudice and racism described in Walker's book is almost identical to what you see in today's news.What I admired most about this story is that there was more focus on the emotional struggle of those involved with the movement and less on the movement itself.
Those people who fight for equality and freedoms are also layered and flawed; humanized in their own shortcomings.
I found this book very different from Alice Walker's other works but a great story nonetheless.
I really liked this book.
The characters fascinated me, especially Meridian, and it's about a topic I don't know well - I was very interested to be able to learn about it through this perspective.
The fact that it deals not only with race but also with the status of women was really interesting as well.
The writing was beautiful and I loved the organisation in short chapters, the quotes at the beginning, the search for meaning of the main character.
I liked it better than The Color Purple, I found the writing more pleasant here.
This book was a challenging read leaving many of the supposed great mysteries of the book unexplained or dealt with inadequately in my opinion. For example, What was this life challenging sickness that Meridian has? I found it hard to connect with any of the characters and had mild sympathy for the lead character. I generally love books like this but I feel like this was an example of no cohesiveness and poor character and plot development.
This is the second Alice Walker book I have read at precisely the right time. I am not ready to put into words the emotions, thoughts and call to act this book has inspired, but in this week of Trayvon, this was the right book to have on my nightstand.I should note that the narrative is not linear, but what I value of Walker's writing is her ability to provoke strong emotions with the images she creates.
Meridian Hill captivates the reader into her world of despair and longing. The story weaves the past and present of those marginalized by society. Her ultimate victory and triumphant self-awareness is a testament to the human spirit.
This work doesn't have a very strong plot, and the ending is a little unclear. However, Walker's development and exploration of her characters is amazing. They are so real, so flawed, so beautiful, they basically leap from the page.
I really love this book. All the changes that Meridian is moving through are moving her, it seems, not only to a higher consciousness of her womanhood or blackness, but towards deciding for herself how she wants to be human. And maybe she doesn't...
Some moving moments, but very difficult for me to get through due to the fragmented narrative structure.
This has been on my shelf for a while but I finally got around to reading it in the final stretch of the ReadHarder challenge for 2017. I've read a fair few Alice Walker novels over the years and this was everything that I have come to expect from her: a powerful exploration of the life of a black woman, her family and the people around her. This is centered around Meridian who is part of the civil rights movement in the 1960s and all that that entailed. A good read, if not a fun one.
For his talk alone (as far as his father knew, or believed, or wanted to know) they had killed him.
And they had murdered him.His father knew the beauty of his son's soul, as a jeweler knows the brilliance of the jewel beneath the stone, the gentleness at the heart of the warrior.
The people would open themselves totally to someone else's loss, if it was allowed them to do so.
But the father, insane half the time, and gladly so, did not allow closeness.
