https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12943902-i-burn-paris
Similarly, the communists view the plague, not necessarily as a punishment for certain groups, but as a convenient, welcome, event that will eradicate, or at least weaken, their enemies – the bourgeoisie – and give them a chance to create a proletarian, communist Paris.What ought to be clear at this point is that Jasieński’s vision, his take on humanity and its impulses and behaviour, has much in common with Laure’s.
In fact, in I Burn Paris there is an organised division, i.e recognised independent city-states are created, some along racial or national lines – Jewish, Chinese, Russian, Anglo-American, etc – and others social.
jasienski is lazy and smart. the book is driven by strong passions and prejudices. doesnt apologize for outright glorification of proletarians and, more strikingly, the villification of decadent and rotting liberals & bourgeoishe got banned from france for writing it
Very bleak, ironic and funny. The whole thing works as this impressive machine for Jasienski's metaphors. If you can't come to any conclusion about the viability of Communism, if one can avoid feeling drowned as a proletariat within a Capitalist machine, what's obvious is this is a pretty incredibly crafted novel. Since this was written in 1928 and only published in English in 2012 this is likely the case of a significant novel being given late-dues.
At the head of the procession demonstrators carried placards with slogans: “The Republic is dead – Long live the Republic!” “We demand some form of government!” “The police without a government is like an electric tram without a power plant!” and so forth.An impressive meeting was held in the square before the prefecture.
After long discussions on how to save the police as such, it was decided to turn to the various governments of the new states one at a time, offering law enforcement services.“This is not about the color, or even the national status of a government,” claimed the man who devised the idea.
Powieść bardzo zaskakująca.
Nie jest to może "wielkie" dzieło ale z pewnością jedna z niespodzianek polskiej literatury, która mimo upływu czasu nadal warta jest czytania.
Niby powieść socjalistyczna, z tezą i znanymi motywami, ale jeszcze przed ustaleniem się socrealizmu.
Są postacie uciemiężonego proletariatu, silnych robotników i ideowych komunistów, jest apoteoza pracy i krytyka zachodniej zgnilizny, ale styl, język i fabuła są dalekie od ortodoksji.
Sam pomysł zarazy, uwolnionej przez człowieka, a która nie zostaje opanowana, lecz wypala się wraz z wymarciem Paryża jest zupełnie wyjątkowa.
Bardzo dobrym pomysłem jest wydanie jej wraz z opowiadaniem Moranda, które wbrew temu co napisano we wstępie, jest rzeczywiście mocną krytyką warunków życia w radzieckiej Moskwie.
5 stars for audacity alone. And it is a fun book, a catastrophic vision of Western Europe crumbling, giving way for a new system (it was written between the two World Wars, so guess which). And you know, as bizarre as the book is, there are some touching moments among the plague and hubris. Mostly I wanted to see what was so bad that the French felt the need to kick Jasienski out of Europe.
this book is really good i think.
After the last death in Paris from the plague, the prisoners (mostly political in nature) escape and found their own colony safe from the outside world.
There are several cross-currents moving above and beneath the surface of the novel, the biggest of which is the noted spread of Communism at the same time as the spread of a “deadly and unstoppable plague.” Jasieński provides a catastrophe as necessary in order to implement a successful communist society, one that will soon repeat in Lyon.
But (perhaps shockingly for a futurist) this book is possessed of a deep class hatred, mocking the liberals of Paris, while the proletariat and political underclass are nearly heroic.
After that, the story explodes, killing Pierre in a bizarre way (nearly off-camera) after he introduces some type of hyper-bubonic plague to Paris' water reservoir.
Maybe this is too Mark Fisher of me but I couldn't help but compare it to contemporary things like The Hunger Games with its laughable caricature of politics and insurrection.Anyway, the book ends with a series of feints and botched heroism.
Absolutely spectacular! Startlingly plausible, razor-sharp prose (even in translation); amid the shifting perspectives, utterly engrossing. Best novel I've read this year.
You can hear an in-depth discussion of Jasieński's 'I Burn Paris' on Sherds Podcast: http://www.holdfastnetwork.com/sherds...
Unable to be admitted to Belgium or Luxumborg, Jasieński stayed in Frankfurt Germany until the extradition order was withdrawn, only to return to France and be expelled again for communist agitation.Settling in Leningrad in the USSR in 1929 he accepted Soviet citizenship, moving to Moscow in 1932.
Jasieński’s first wife, Klara Arem, who had had an affair with Yagoda, was also arrested, sentenced to death and executed, as a result Jasieński was expelled from the All-Union Communist Party (the Bolsheviks).
Jasieński’s second wife, Anna Berin, was arrested in 1939 and spent seventeen years in various Soveit gulags, and his son was stripped of his identity and sent to an orphanage, but managed to escape during World War II.
Against this he paints a picture of a city eventually demarcated by zones of control and difference that it is hard not to read as arrondissement, but then that is my map of Paris no doubt imposed on Jasieński’s Futurist psychogeography of his character’s urban and political utopian fantasies that finish up shimmering in a seam-zone between utopian and dystopian, both depicted as addled.
Notably, it’s not just about the politics: the novel sparkles, the language pulls us in and along so that despite the labels ‘Futurist’ and ‘Avant-garde’ that often serve of markers of over-done inaccessibility I Burn Paris remains engaging and very enjoyable.
I'm not sure quite what to think of this, it came across as disjointed and too short that none of the characters bar P'an are fleshed out at all.
Frankly this was the most interesting and fleshed out content in the entire book.
What came after P'an was barely more than summary of events, none of the imagery of part 1, but instead a whole lot of derogatory cultural stereotyping.It seems to me the entire book was just an outlet for the author's own political/sociopathic fantasies.
KOBOBOOKSReviewed by The Complete Review
very cool book. last part is kinda weird. first part was awesome. middle was very sad
Brash, unabashed prose. Written incredibly vividly, I recommend this to any fan of futurism, of vorticism, or literature in general. Among my favorite, if not my all time favorite.
The first part was cool and I dont really know what happened in the other parts
Roz-cza-ro-wa-nie.
a frantic fever dream of a novel
Write a review...
