https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7999.Marlfox
Marlfox was my first Redwall novel in the series, even though it does come into the series relatively late.
I loved the light fantasy storytelling it had with the characters being mice, squirrels, otters, and other woodland creatures.
But it wasn't all light-hearted fun.
The Redwall stories offer more villainous creatures such as rats, shrews, and stoats.
What's great about this whole series is the plethora of characters as everyone gathers together to defend their home (Redwall Abbey) from the evil characters.
If I took anything from it, it's that you can weave together humor, light-hearted fun, and more serious themes without having to overdo any of them.
This was quite good. It deviated slightly from the other Redwall books [that I have read as of this review] plot-wise, which, of course, made for an enjoyable story, by cause of originality.
Oh goody, another Redwall book where we get to spend 300 pages trying to distinguish what the various creatures are saying.
And while we're on the subject of continuity in this universe, why are always children at the Abbey but never any parents?Like most of the other books in this series, Marlfox follows the same old formula, making the entire plot highly predictable.
There's even a mousebabe because, apparently, they too have become a staple.Marlfox is particularly boring because it didn't feel like any of the characters on the quest for the tapestry learned or changed or grew in any way.
12/18/10 DoneIn the book evil foxes called Marlfoxes, take the Martin the Warrior tapestry from the Abbey. Song,Dippler, Burble, and Dann set out to retake it. Along the way they make new allies. In the end, they emancipate slaves at the island which Marlfoxes live on, Dippler becomes Log a Log, Burble becomes chief of the Riverhead water voles, Dann becomes the Abbey's champion, and Song becomes Abbess at the Abbey. A text to text connection is Song is mentioned in Taggerrung.
I've owned this book forever but I don't remember as much what this one was about. Kudos to Jacques though for going for more than just regular foxes and adding an air of almost-magic into it. My favorite part of these books is often the food. Anyone else get hungry reading these?
Redwall is a lovely, safe place to visit. The villian always dies, thier slaves are always freed, and redwall always stands. There is never a single slave who dies in slavery. They always are free. That said, this is a childrens book, so I overlook that and enjoy the lovely discriptions and humor.
I hadn't read a Redwall book in around 10 years and still thoroughly enjoyed it.
In this tale of Redwall, the titular Marlfoxes, a special breed of vulpine, led by Queen Silth, haunt Mossflower Wood and steal the tapestry of Martin the Warrior from Redwall Abbey, with a party consisting of the two children of squirrel warriors, Dannflor Reguba and Songbreeze Swifteye, following them, with the shrew Dippler and watervole Burble accompanying them.
Throughout the story, the Redwallers clash with the Marlfoxes and occasional rats and other “vermin,” with Dannflor having sporadic visions of Martin the Warrior, along with a featured power struggle including another of the Marlfoxes, Mokkan.
The story is generally good, though again somewhat recycled from prior entries of the series.
Mysterious and often thought to be only the stuff of legends, the Marlfoxes make their way into Mossflower and Redwall country.
After a battle at the wall, the Marlfoxes make their way into the Abbey and steal the tapestry of Martin the Warrior.
As always, the three adventurers have a perilous journey full of adventure, the making of new friends, and ultimately a heroic final battle on the infamous Marlfox island and fortress.
Meanwhile back at the Abbey, Cregga badgermum--the former Cregga Rose Eyes, the badger warrior of Salamandastron--and the other Redwallers must defend the Abbey against other members of the Marlfox clan that continually try to conquer the famous Redwall.
I loved the focus on a more limited number of storylines so that the individual plots and characters got good amounts of attention.
I feel it really helped keep things moving as a narrative, and I didn't find myself losing track of characters like I have done in certain previous Redwall installments.
However, you still have fun little sidetracks with bit characters like Sollertree and Megraw to help add content and depth to the main storylines.
It feels like in "Marlfox", everything has its place and everyone plays his or her part for the greater good, making the novel a solid and enjoyable addition to the series.
Brian Jacques was born to tell stories.
He wasn't born to be a writer, per say, but he was definitely born to tell tales.
Like traveling story-tellers from long ago, meandering from campfire to campfire sharing tales of legendary heroics in the face of absolute evil, Brian Jacques is a weaver of words.
Telling stories of love that triumphs and wickedness that falls, friendships that overcome and betrayals that scar for life, Brian Jacques manages to keep his streak of incredible story telling going in Marlfox.
Do yourself a favor and pick up Redwall.
After 10 books of repelling the hordes of unwashed, undocumented foreign invaders, the denizens of the "peaceful abbey" of Redwall go up against a yet more perilous foe: sneaky, scheming foreigners! In which book do they repel the stoats or possums or whatever who are very frugal or wear a certain kind of hat?
This one was very different from the other books in the series, in some ways good, other ways bad. I remember not liking it as much as the others, but I still gobbled it up in about a day. I did like how mysterious this one felt, and the fact that it's different from the other books in the series brought some unexpected story perks.
Fantastic readOh how I wish I could visit the abbey of Redwall. Reading and rereading the books will have to do. Excellent writing and wonderful stories transport you to a land of peace and plenty
Great book, great writing, great plot. One star off for a slightly lame ending...
This book was mediocre.
This book, like the others in the Redwall series, doesn't fail to exceed my expectations. Action, mystery and a little bit of humor goes along way when writing about animals.
Small illustrations preface chapters, intro heroes and villains. Plaintive ballads, strong marches. Art and music support series for me. Prophecies and island queen distract.
Snooze...
Narrowly escaping serious injury at the hands of the Marlfoxes, the Swifteye family of squirrels, the Wandering Noonvale Companions, and the Guosim shrews (who have had their logboats stolen by the Marlfoxes) each decide to head for Redwall to warn the abbey dwellers of the danger.The sneaky Marlfoxes, however, manage to get in past the young beasts defending the abbey itself and steal the big tapestry of Martin the Warrior.
Brian Jacques has to get credit for continually changing up the elements of the Redwall stories, always giving new peripheral looks to the basic narrative style that readers of the series become familiar with in the first couple of books.
The Marlfoxes have been the stuff of legend in the past (though noticeably not mentioned previously in the Redwall series), but their sinister path collides with that of the abbey inhabitants when a group of the foxes and their army find their way to the peaceable redstone fortress and make war upon it.
This book was very good. It was, I think, the largest book that I have ever read, so it was a little hard to get through for me. I liked all of the characters very much. I think Bryan Jacques does well in giving all the characters a personality. The story line was great. I am a little sad that the main male and main female didn't get married, but it ended well.
I decided to read it, because I remember one of my students recently mention that this was his favorite book in the Redwall series.
Song and Dann (both squirrels) and Dippler, a shrew, are told in a dream by Martin the Warrior that they have been given the task to find the tapestry and bring it home.
Creatures of the Abbey going on a quest, sent by the warrior Martin, facing dangers and learning one's own strengths, etc.
There's plenty of exciting battles in Marlfox to attract those fans of action/adventure stories.
I'd recommend Marlfox to anyone looking for a thrilling story about friends on a quest.
The Marlfoxes that came to face Redwall were six all told who wer borhters and sister; children of the High Queen Silth and her mate who she killed.
The Marlfoxes also took the tapestry of Martin the Warrior and later on Mokkan the most devious of them all abandon his siblings making his way back to the island.
While so, the Marlfoxes abandon began to be taken out by the Redwallers wnat by one until a great battle finish the rest of them.
Mokkan was forced to escaped and was later killed and the terror of the Marlfoxes ended.
Once again, a focused plot without irrelevant side-plots makes for a good Redwall book.
I suppose that Burble is there simply for comic relief, but the other three actually have character development.Speaking of comic relief, Jacques usually uses the hares for that and it’s especially noticeable here.
Florian is probably one of my least favorite hares, but his inclusion makes for some of the funnier parts of the book.But oh my goodness, the Dibbuns!
But it makes for a good legend, I guess.Overall, Marlfox has some of the better heroes in the series (of those that come from Redwall) and a unique set of villains.
Foxes always seem to be villains in Jacques's work, and here he introduces a new kind, the Marlfoxes, who, with their "silver-gray coats heavily mottled with patches of black and bluey gray," are blessed with natural camouflage such that they are thought to be magic ("They could make theirselves invisible").
Especially well done is the pace and the intercutting between the tapestry-seekers, the ongoing siege at Redwall, and the events at the foxes' castle as Silth's children plot to put her out of the way and (like most villains in this series) soon fall to fighting with one another.
There is much good to be said about the Harry Potter series of books - their foray into wizardry, their magical locations and characters, the rhythm of their plots as you discover what Harry is up against.
This book, unlike the Harry Potter series, lacks wizardry, great characters, and a good villain.
This dilution of characters is what I believe is truly lacking in this book series.
Here's how the characters work: there are a few main protagonists spread among the animal species.
This world view of perfection among the good species is a load of horse crap.
It follows on nicely from The Long Patrol with a handful of recurring characters, as well as some of the best family dynamics to ever grace a Jacques' page.
Throw in a Gousim revenge plot, the poor old tapestry going missing (yet again) and some siege antics to keep the Abbey-bods occupied and you've got a good thing going.
Plus, someone really needed to take Jacques' firmly in hand when it came to writing baby animals, or Dibbuns as they're known in universe.
By Marlfox, they've developed their own, at times indecipherable stupid mode of speech (known affectionately as 'a'wight den me go bang' on TV Tropes).
Part of the prolific and classic Redwall series, Marlfox follows an ever-widening band of forest creatures as they fight the evil and mysterious marlfoxes.
When they steal an important tapestry from Redwall Abbey, a band of young Redwall creatures must fight to save it.
The books never talk down to young readers and elevate their vocabulary with such descriptors as something being the color of “terra-cotta” rather than simply orange or red.
With detailed characters and plots and a magical setting, readers of all ages can return to the same books again and again and gain new insights each time.
Foxes have always been antagonists in the Redwall books, in Marlfox it was really cool to take foxes to an almost “magic” realm.
As a whole I liked this book, it wasn’t boring to me and the story moved at a good pace.
One of the things I didn’t really like about Marlfox is that it has a lot of repeating themes in common with the other Redwall books, this isn’t really a problem but after I noticed I couldn’t stop comparing what happened in this book to others.
As with other Redwall books there are a lot of different accents that may require more than the usual amount of energy to understand.
