https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47323.The_Fatal_Eggs
كل ذلك طبيعي إلى وضعت السلطة يدها على إكتشاف البروفسور والتلاعب به وتحويله إلى كارثة عظيمة غير متوقعة...طبعاً الرواية رمزية وخيالية ولكن لو دققت في تفاصيلها ومكنونانتها وتحليلها العميق ورؤيتها المستقبلية ستجد أن الذي حدث في الواقع ربما سيفوق الخيال الذي تنبأ به بولغاكوف في قادم الأيام..وعن موت الآلاف في الرواية يتحدث بولغاكوف بطريقة باردة وكأنه يتحدث عن إبادة حشرات ضارة وهو يحاكي ما يفعله التسلط والأستباد والهمجية الدكتاتورية تجاه شعوبها وإبادة أكبر عدد منهم وكأنهم جراثيم يجب التخلص منها لينعم الجزء المتبقي على جثث أؤلئك وكأن الذين ماتوا وقتلوا أرقام لا أكثر تعيش وتباد وينسى أمرها لكي تبقى السلطة والدولة فقط مسلطة على رقاب من يأتي بعدهم..
ولا ينسى بولغاكوف ذكر الحمقى والرعاع الذين تسوقهم الدولة من دون وعي ولا فكر ولا إرادة إنسانية وكان ذلك واضحاً في مشهد إقتحام الناس لمقر البروفسور بريسيكوف وكأنه كان المسؤول الوحيد عن ما حدث ..رواية هائلة، بالنسبة لي من أروع ما قرأت في الأدب الروسي..
Sus libros eran continuamente prohibidos, censurados, recortados y esto lo hacía enojar.La incipiente burocracia soviética, sumado a una política férrea y la prensa con su actitud totalmente obsecuente con el poder transformaron los años 20 en la URSS en una atmósfera opresiva e intolerable.Bulgákov toma parte de la revolución del 17, de Lenin y de los soviets ,distintas características para aplicarle un tono parodiante a los sucesos que atraviesa Moscú y principalmente el profesor Pérsikov a partir de su descubrimiento del rayo rojo (no podría ser de otro color).
After leaving his microscope for several hours, Persikov suddenly noticed that the out-of-focus microscope produced a ray of red light; amoeba left under that light showed an impossibly increased rate of binary fission, reproducing at enormous speeds and demonstrating unusual aggression.
A sovkhoz manager Aleksandr Semenovich Rokk (whose name is also a pun on the novel's title, Rok meaning fate) receives an official permission to confiscate Persikov's equipment, and use the invention to attempt to restore the chicken populace to the pre-plague level.
تقوم السلطات بأخذ هذا الإكتشاف وتطبيقه على البيض (بعد ازمة دجاج كانت قد اجتاحت روسيا، وقبل ان يكمل العالم تجاربه)، البيض المستورد من المانيا، فتكون النتائج كارثية، خصوصاً ان البيض كان لأفاعٍ و تماسيح ونعام ...
تنتهي القصة بشفاء الطبيعة لنفسها بموجة صقيع تؤدي لإفناء هذه الكائنات الغريبة.-- الوجه الثاني، والمقصود برأيي: الشعاع الأحمر= الشيوعية، البيض المستورد من المانيا= الماركسية، الحيوانات العملاقة الناتجة= البروقراطيين الروس الحكام: بهذا المنحى ينتقد بولكاكوف الشيوعية الماركسية، ويعتبرها هجينة تؤدي الى افراز كائنات رهيبة في الحكم (وقد افرزت)، ويستشرف لها نهاية قادمة لأن هذه الإيديولوجية بعيدة عن روسيا (وقد انتهت ايضاً).
A slim sci-fi novel(la) about a "ray of life" birthing mutant cockerels, snakes, and ostriches which run amok in 1920s Moscow. Biting satirical larks from Russia's best-ever satirist.N.B. This story is included in "Diaboliad" (Vintage Classics) with other short stories. You might want to save money and get that collection.
First half of this book almost reads like a witty story of manners; second half reads like a cheesy horror flick of the 30s—which I wouldn’t consider bad as I love a good ol’ fashioned horror classic (as long it has sufficient cheese).I ultimately really liked this book.
The way I see it, there are two possible interpretations one might make of the second portion of this story: either Bulgakov just lost hold of the story, or he got clever and decided to have fun with a serious conflict and stretched it to epic proportions.
In this outlandish novelette Mikhail Bulgakov wickedly satirized the new Soviet soulless bureaucracy.Monsters beget greater monsters… “Shukin fired a few more shots in the direction of the conservatory, smashing several panes of glass.
But behind him a huge olive-coloured coil sprang out of a cellar window, slithered over the yard, covering it entirely with its ten-yard-long body and wound itself round Shukin's legs in a flash.It dashed him to the ground, and the shiny revolver bounced away.
Shukin screamed with all his might, then choked, as the coils enfolded all of him except his head.
Çok üzgünüm Bulgakov'u bu kadar geç okuduğum için. Sitede çoğu kişi bu kitaba 3-4 yıldız vermiş fakat sanıyorum ki bunun nedeni daha önce Bulgakov'un daha da güzel eserlerini okumuş olmalarıdır. Benim ilk Bulgakov'umdu ve ben bu kitaba bayıldım. Daha okumadigim kitapları olduğu için de mutlu ve heyecanliyim. Kitap ilginc ve sürükleyici, bir o kadar da şoke ediciydi. Bulgakov'un alanı zooloji olmamasına rağmen bununla ilgili bu kadar bilgiye sahip olması, araştırma yapması da hayranlık uyandırıcı. Ben çok beğendim, tavsiye ederim.
Ante el problema de la dictadura rusa que siguió a la revolución de octubre de 1917 -que en realidad fue en noviembre si se toma el calendario gregoriano occidental en lugar del oriental juliano- algunos artistas tuvieron respuestas lúcidas pero débiles, como Dimitri Shostakovich o Sergei Eisenstein, mientras otros tuvieron respuestas lúcidas y fuertes, como Mijail Bulgakov en Los Huevos Fatales.
Pareciera que el mal es otro cultivo fatal del mismo rayo rojo de la vida-muerte.
Bulgakov sugiere que el mal también parece valerse de las equivocaciones.
En Los Huevos Fatales parece operar una especie de tragedia de las equivocaciones.
Mikhail Bulgakov, better known for his work The Master and Margarita, displays here a satirical and witty discourse that depicts the Russian burocracy and system while foretells the coming of science-fiction themes. The Fatal Eggs was written in 1924 but could be very much applied to todays situation in many aspects. In his diary, Bulgakov wrote of it: "Is it a satire? Or a provocative gesture? ... I'm afraid that I might be hauled off ... for all these heroic feats".Not only a great work of sat
Mikhail Bulgakov, better known for his work The Master and Margarita, displays here a satirical and witty discourse that depicts the Russian burocracy and system while foretells the coming of science-fiction themes.
In his diary, Bulgakov wrote of it: "Is it a satire?
for all these heroic feats".Not only a great work of satire though; it also shows the knowledge in medicine that the author had.
Discovering a scientific treasure, the professor Persikov pretends to quietly carry out a series of experiements but, all of a sudden, different people get involved to the point of, by an "accident", making a mistake which soon becomes a catastrophe.For sure, many links bind this book to other science-fiction works of the time, such as H.
Brevemente la storia può riassumersi nella scoperta da parte di un illustre zoologo moscovita, il professor Persikov, di un raggio rosso che provoca la crescita e la riproduzione rapidissima di esseri viventi, nonché una aggressività enorme tra le creature generate grazie al raggio, che divorano le più deboli (come il capitalismo, mostro che genera mostri che prosperano sulle disgrazie altrui –vedasi oggi le banche).
Un racconto che tratta una tematica sempre attuale, sui limiti della scienza e sul suo significato, sul rapporto scienza-politica quando la politica è inetta ed immorale.Forse perché troppo breve, forse perché tutti i personaggi sono delle caricature, non approfondite ma buttate nella mischia come se fossero dei clown in un circo, il racconto mi è piaciuto solo nella parte finale, di una tragicità che fa riflettere.
هذه الرواية ليست خيالا علميا بل هي رواية ساخرة من الأوضاع السياسية والخيال العلمي أو الأمور الغريبة التي لجأ إليها الكاتب لم تكن إلا فانتازيا ساخرة من الواقع وهو الأسلوب الذي يلجأ إليه بولغاكوف في أغلب رواياته ...
مم يسخر بولغاكوف في هذه الرواية !الواضح إنه يسخر من القادة السياسيين الذين يدسون أنوفهم في الشئون العلمية ويحاولون تسخير هذه الأمور لصالح السلطة فيرتد عليهم الأمر بلعنة لا يستطيعون التخلص منها الرواية رائعة جدا لولا أن الترجمة كانت حديدية كيف حديدية لا أعرف ولكنه تعبير استخدمه كثيرا حين أجد أن لغة المترجم أشبه بالآلة خالية من العواطف والأحاسيس ...
خالية من الدفء والأهم من الذكاء الذي يجب أن يكون أهم ما يتصف به المترجم
"Doğanın işleyişine müdahale etmek ne kadar doğru?" , "Bilimsel gelişmeler, yanlış kişiler ve yanlış amaçlarla kullanıldığında ne gibi felaketlere yol açabilir?" , "Devrim niteliğindeki buluşlar, farklı nedenlerden ötürü irili ufaklı felaketlere dönüştüğünde suç, bu devrimi başlatanda mı yoksa farklı yollara sürükleyenlerde midir?" gibi envai çeşit soruyu zihninize yerleştirecek, akıcı, özgün bir kitap.
Gunler aylar surecek gelismeler bu isinin altinda birkac dakikada gerceklesiveriyor hatta hatta canlilarin gelisimleri cok daha oteye geciyor ve devasa yavrular ortaya cikiyor.
Bir denemesinde universiteyi dev kurbagalar basiyor.
Kontrolden cikan kurbagalari yakalayip oldurmek icin Profesor Persikov siyanur kullanmak zorunda kaliyor.
Profesor her ne kadar herkesi reddetmeye calissada insanlik o kadar cahil ve ac gozlu ki, Persikov neler oldugunu anlayaba kadar sohrete kavusuveriyor.
Ve bir gun Profesor pes ediyor ve isini bir salaga teslim ediyor.
Sonucunda da cahil ce ac gozlu insanoglu hincini yine Profesor Persikov’dan aliyor.
Persikov made such a dash that he almost went under a car on Mokhovaya, and seized a newspaper in a frenzy”Around this time, an inexplicable disease sweeps through Russia’s chicken population – wiping it out entirely.
The secret police confiscate Persikov’s equipment to use to speed up the growth of chickens – despite it not having been fully tested.
There are some wonderfully memorable images from this novel, the taut atmosphere of Moscow streets, the rural calm of the State farm, before the full horror is unleashed, and the peasant woman crying over her dying chickens.
A medical experiment gone bizarre and the whole of Moscow is hit by a catastrophe noone can ever imagine. Poor Professor Persikov, though!!~~~~~~~~~Those who have read Bulgakov know full well that his works were a satire on Stalin's regime in Soviet Russia and this is another extraordinary book so well done. ~~~~~~~~~Utter madness, this book is, just like THE HEART OF A DOG, just like THE MASTER AND MARGARITA, but man, did I love it!!!~~~~~~~~~
Kitap kurgusu itibariyle muazzam bir bilgi aktarımı yapıyor. Bilimle alakası olmayan insanların bile ''böyle bir şey olursa ne yaparız?'' diye soracağı bir hikaye çıkmış ortaya.Sağlam bir sistem eleştirisi. Daha geniş kapsamla insanın bilgiyi nasıl kullanacağı problemine de değinmiş. Anlatım tarzı biraz zorlayıcı. Alışkın olduğumuz kurgu anlayışından farklı. Yine de çok beğendim, yazarın diğer kitaplarını okumayı planlıyorum. ^^
Only Bulgakov can get from satire of Soviet bureaucracy to GIANT MONSTERS EATING THE COUNTRYSIDE in a short story and have it make perfect sense. Please, nobody tell the SyFy network about this or they'll buy the film rights in 10 seconds.
Olağanüstü bir hiciv ustası...
This is a science-fiction novella combining the likes of two literary writers Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (with the theme of the scientist whose experiments lead to dire consequences), and H.G. Wells's The Island of Doctor Moreau (with the blurred distinction between animals and humans), further combined with satirizing the times, that of the early Communist regime (1920s) of the former USSR.The book shows how its communist government used to intervene the lives of scientists and their yet incomplete research, "taking control" of those works without the means of properly understanding them, and causing all of it to have the potential to create havoc and destruction.
بيوض القدر من سيقرأ لبولغاكوف هذا الكتاب بعد (المعلم ومارغريت) و(مذكرات طبيب شاب) سيقر أنه يمكن لبولغاكوف أن يبدع في أي مجال، سواءً كتب في العالم الخيالي السحري - المعلم ومارغريت - أو في عالم واقعي - مذكرات طبيب - أو في الخيال العلمي كما في هذا الكتاب.
تتناول الرواية قصة عالم سوفييتي متخصص في علم الحيوان يدعى (بيرسيكوف) يكتشف شعاعاً يمكنه أن يسرع النمو، وكعادة العلماء يتروى بيرسيكوف في اكتشافه واستنتاجاته، لكن الصحافة لا تدعه في حاله، تلاحقه للحصول على تصريحات، وتخترعها عندما لا يلقي لها بيرسيكوف بالاً.
لا عجب أن منعت هذه الرواية.
Pekâlâ Köpek Kâlbi kadar sevdiğim bir Bulgakov eseri. Nedendir bilemiyorum, Batı'da genel olarak "Sovyetler Birliği'nin satirize edildiği bir kitap" olarak görülüyor. Evet, Sovyetler Birliği ve özellikle o dönemde yaşanan uygulamalar da satirize ediliyor lâkin çok daha ince noktalar da mevcut kitapta. En basitinden ağustos ayında gelen don, yani sıcaklığın sıfırın altına düşmesi. İlâhî müdahaleye bir atıf, hem de bariz bir atıf.Sözün özü, kitabı Sovyet bürokrasinin satiri olarak nitelendirmek, kitabı epeyce basite indirgemektir. Korkunç atmosferi, içindeki bilimkurgu etmenleri ve satirle birlikte klasik bir Bulgakov eseri Ölümcül Yumurtalar. Kusursuz.
An odd read even for Bulgakov. The clever and budgeted writer that he is, slows down the narration in the second half of this tiny book. The novella starts off as a hilarious satire on absurd investigations under the guise of science. A bland look on the bureaucratic nonsense that surrounds a professor and his "frog egg" investigation, Bulgakov gently points at the Russian secret police, propaganda politics and the headaches that come with insipid helpers.Enjoyed but didn't love.
کتاب خوب نبودبرید مرشد و مارگاریتا رو بخونید و دل سگ رو که ده ستاره ن
أنقذونا يا رفاق، اقتلوا الثعابين
For me, one of these has been Mikhail Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita, which I was bowled over sideways by in the excellent Michael Glenny translation when I was about 20.Translated Russian novels, even moderately thick ones, could be fantasticated and fun!
Presumably I was initially nervous lest something lesser by him destroy the magic in my mind that The Master and Margarita had created, and then I just got into the habit of not reading Bulgakov.Well, that has now changed.
Weirdly reminiscent of a terrible Asylum monster flick in its none-more-cliched plot.
But then The Man takes the science away from the scientist who made the science, so it does monsters.
So the plot may be generic, but the satire is fascinating, not least for seeing what you could get away with.
Then too, the translator (aptly named Cockrell, LIKE A BIRD!) seems comically unaware of the regular operations of science fiction: "Throughout this story Bulgakov juxtaposes fact and fiction, presenting his readers with a seemingly authentic world that sometimes corresponds with historical reality and sometimes deviates from it." Well...yes.

Sebbene mi sia piaciuto lo stile di Bulgakov, a tratti anche ironico, questo è un genere che non fa proprio per me. Per fortuna era un romanzo breve, non avrei retto un libro più lungo. Interessante il messaggio lanciato da Bulgakov, uno spaccato della società russa degli anni venti, con la politica che vuole interferire anche nelle scoperte scientifiche e che, non avendo le giuste conoscenze, provoca danni incontrollabili.
If you have any doubts that Bulgakov was a doctor, then read this novel. There are so many laboratory scenes and there is so much enjoyment in explaining the scientific process. It's nice to see a book where the science isn't the problem, the scientist is not hell bent on gaining knowledge at any cost. The people who want to use it before it's been properly tested are however another matter.
