https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295649.Bloody_Jack
The audio version helps interpret the dialect that the story is written in, which also helps give Jacky her character in a palpable way.
This book is made for audio - it has action, adventure, and emotion, all of which are vividly portrayed by the narrator (I forget her name right now, but I'll look it up.) All this adds up to a fabulous audiobook that should win fans whenever it is popped into a CD player.The story is a rip-snorter, too.
Disguised as a boy, she is able to transform into Jacky and to pull off the deception for several years even while living in close quarters on a British naval vessel.
Mary Faber, a young guttersnipe living in eighteenth-century London, cuts her hair, pulls on some pants, and signs up as a ship's boy on the HMS Dolphin.
On board, "Jacky" Faber soon acquires a reputation as a brave and fearless pirate-fighter.
It's a grand adventure for both Mary, and the reader.Though much of the book is taken up with Mary's efforts to camouflage her femininity, AND her struggle to hide her feelings for another ship's boy, there's plenty of action and treachery to keep things interesting.
I'm curious about the next chapter in Mary's life, so I plan to continue with this series.
She strips the dead body, cuts her hair, renames herself Jack Faber, and is soon employed as a ship's boy on the HMS Dolphin.
When the vessel sees its first skirmish with a pirate ship, her bravery saves her friend Jaimy and earns her the nickname "Bloody Jack." Told by Mary/Jack in an uneven dialect that sometimes doesn't ring true, the story weaves details of life aboard the Dolphin.
However, it is a good story of a brave ship's "boy" with natural leadership abilities and a sense of fair play and humanity.
This book is about as much fun as Harry Potter...a coming of age story for a child with the odds stacked against her. And yes, BONUS, the heroine is a girl. I found it to be an engaging read with a novel setting and story line (for me). I'm so happy I picked up on the series!
3.5 stars ”It's easier bein' a boy, 'cause when someone needs somethin' done like holdin' a horse, they'll always pick a boy 'cause they think the dumbest boy will be better at it than the brightest girl, which is stupid, but there you are.” I liked this book a fair bit, but there were a couple of ways in which it disappointed me. As the quote above illustrates, there is a bit of commentary on the role of women during this time period. The basic plot is quite liberating for Jacky—she impersonate
”It's easier bein' a boy, 'cause when someone needs somethin' done like holdin' a horse, they'll always pick a boy 'cause they think the dumbest boy will be better at it than the brightest girl, which is stupid, but there you are.”
I liked this book a fair bit, but there were a couple of ways in which it disappointed me.
As the quote above illustrates, there is a bit of commentary on the role of women during this time period.
She’s a sharp enough observer (trained by her time on the streets of London) to figure out how to pull it off without getting caught right away.
Because apparently that’s what girls do.
An extraordinary tale about a young girl who has everything and everyone taken from her and still unbelievably rises out of the ashes like a Phoenix to survive in a time of death and hopelessness.
A great, captivating story with a completely original cast of characters that show great bravery and wildly cunning wit throughout.
Katherine Kellgren has outstanding timing and is a perfect fit for Jackie's personality.
Her distinct character voices and consistent pace always bring a little something extra to the listen.
I highly recommend this to everyone who would like to take an exhilarating ride on the high seas.
I love, love, LOVE all of the Bloody Jack books. She does edge a little into Mary Sue territory at times, but not in typical ways for a female character. She's kind of like an adolescent female version of Jack Ryan (Patriot Games, etc).
So many female action heroes tend to be modeled as boys in skirts - ass-kicking, bloodthirsty heroines out to prove they're not just some weakling girl.
It's a quick read, no lulls but with breathing room.(view spoiler)[So, in many books and films and comics, a woman is raped or killed solely to further the main player's character development.
In contrast, when Jacky is near-raped it was not because she was a woman, she defended herself appropriately, and the men in the book recognized her/his right to defend her/himself.
Excellent story! I love the style of writing...I feel like I'm right with them on the ship. Can't wait to read the others!
I completely loved the first half of this book.
I loved Mary, I was totally enthralled by her experience on the streets of London and then on the ship and the whole thing was written in such a compelling voice that I really did not want to put it down.But then came the romance, which made Mary quite silly, and the book kind of lost me.
I love this book and just can't get enough of it. jacky's fabulous and absolutely crazy. Its just what I need, a good does of adventure following a streetsmart heroine who doesn't have a chip on her shoulder or an abusive family. I think that the best part is that Jacky adapts to every situations and learns like a sponge. She's bloody talented and completely wild.There is a smidgit of romance or love interest, which also manages to keep me hooked for the next book (and the book after that and so on).Definitely worth a read or two, I promise
Fun book about a girl from the London slums who boards a British Navy boat as a boy.
In my library it's a Young Adult book, but it's a good quick read, plenty of happenings and adventure.
A kid from the gutter's not going to speak the Queen's English, after all.After surviving on the streets of London, Mary's friend and protector is killed.
She's always dreamed of going to sea, so she boards a ship, no long Little Mary, but Jacky.She thrives on steady meals and hard work.
In fact, while reading it, I wished that this series had been around when I was younger.The story couldn't be simpler: A young girl, Mary Faber, pretends to be a boy in order to become a ships boy.
The 1790's was a very dangerous time to be alive if you were rich, let alone a poor orphan.For the adult reader, there aren't too many twists and turns you won't see coming but that takes nothing away from the experience.
I'll let you guess.I doubt I'll end up reading the rest of the series (12 book in total) but that's due to lack of time, not lack of quality.
If you've ever wanted girl adventure stories, Jacky is your girl.
What's more, Meyer manages to handle the tired old saw of girl dressed as boy and make it believable, describing her adventures with clarity, vividness, humor, and sympathy.
Even the subjects one would consider somewhat dicey are well-handled, probably because Jacky's voice is so very assured, we always believe in her, don't see the author wincing or smirking or pushing the puppets about.
When things get worse, she disguises herself as a boy, noticing how much freedom they have.
Tapi, tidak sedikit juga yang memang melakukan pekerjaan itu karena ingin membantu orang tau dalam memenuhi kebutuhan hidup keluarga, atau bisa juga karena mereka memang sudah tidak punya siapa-siapa lagi.Tidak hanya bekerja di jalanan, banyak juga anak-anak yang bekerja di pabrik sebagai buruh, anak-anak yang terpaksa kehilangan masa anak-anak.
Bukan cuma kelelahan fisik yang akan mereka alami saat bekerja, tapi juga tekanan emosi ataupun mental dari pada “senior”.Sekedar informasi, sejumlah jermal di lepas pantai Sumatera Utara, ditengarai masih mempekerjakan anak.
Terutama Mary, dia takut geng yang lain akan merebut Mary karena Mary bisa menulis dan membaca, sesuatu yang sangat jarang dimiliki oleh anak-anak jalanan pada masa itu.Hingga suatu waktu, Charlie mati terbunuh.
It became obvious that, unlike most devotees of the English Regency period, the author had not read Georgette Heyer.
I read on until the scene where this British naval ship is in a fight with the pirates.
They have filled the sailboat with fuel and set it on fire, and it is coming right at us!There is a reason why fireships are used against fleets of ships bunched up at anchor, usually in a harbor.
It keeps going so that the little sailboat with one sail comes right up to it and blows it up.
Would have given this more stars, because I (mostly) enjoyed the story and I like the main character, but.
The fact that wants Jacky to be more "lady-like" doesn't help.2.
The fact that, when Jacky and Jaimy are fooling around, it is Jacky's job to make sure things don't go too far, because Jaimy can't think straight in these situations and can't help himself.
Ugh. Also, the fact that Jacky broke down in tears when trying to convince Jaimy that they can't have sex doesn't really makes things any better.So, yeah.
After reading Daughter of the Pirate King, I was in the mood for more high seas adventure.
I about died when Jacky thought she had contracted some plague and was going to die a horrible death because she didn't know what her monthlies were.
Yeah, it starts out young, but by the end of the book she's about 15, so I know future books in the series will likely be less on the middle-grade side.
Though, I did enjoy her child-like demeanor and the levity it brought.
It's one of those books where I'm like, "There should be more of these." (And there are!
It's a whole series!) None of the elements are terribly new or original (or realistic), but it's all put together well and has just what (well, I) like to read!A young girl, Mary Faber, is orphaned on the streets of 18th-century London.
She joins a gang of kids and learns begging and even some thieving, but when a ghoulish thug who sells the bodies of dead street kids to medical schools kills the leader of her gang, she realizes it's time to leave.
Honestly didn't think I would like this one--you know, cause I get seasick, and this being a story about sailors and ships.Jacky Faber has wonderful characteristics: strong female, too much pride for her own good, and clever. Her voice stays with you long after you close the book.The only thing that bothered me (and this is going to sound really stupid) are the run-on sentences. I hope I'll get used to it with the next installment.My favorite line: "The Captain is so happy, he's forgivin' you for bein' a girl..."
I wanted to like this more than I did, and I can't quite put my finger on why this was just an okay book to me. Jackie is a fun character. I guess it just didn't quite click.Content warning: some gruesome violence and some sex talk and sexual situations including an attempted rape2018 challenge: a book set at sea
Jacky lived ever since her parents had died of the plague on the streets of London but when an old man named Muck kills the leader of the gang, at least that is who they think did it, then she feels that she is forced to leave.
Then Jacky got up, held out the dress, asked him to help her measure it, and then said "What, ain't you ever seen a girl?" I recomend this for anyone with a sense of adventure and a taste for the ocean, but mostly for teenage girls.
This is an amazing book.
(Review edited in 2015, read in 2013)I at first thought, several years ago when I saw this, that it was probably border-lining on being a children's book, or even a typical immature YA novel.
But it was everything I wanted to read right now.This came out in 2002, a year before the first of the Pirates of the Caribbean films, so no, it is not some kind of rip off, even with the character's name.
They really aren't similar, I'm just so in love with pirates.What I thought was handled quite well was that this book doesn't give you the entirely romanticized version of pirates or the Royal Navy.
I thoroughly enjoyed at least the first half of this, and enjoyed many bits after, so I'd rather give three and a half stars if I could...Know all those great old ballads where the girl cuts off her hair, sometimes binds up her breasts and goes off to sea?
With never a mention of how the hell she's going to continue to pass for a boy on a ship full of sailors - no private bedrooms or nice, locking toilets?
Wow. I fell in love with this book and the main character, Mary "Jacky" Faber, immediately. From Mary's rough start as a street kid in plague-ridden London in 1797 to her elaborate deception as Jack, a ship's boy on the HMS Dolphin, I loved every minute.The voice talent on the audiobook is superb. An absolute joy to listen to. I had many things to do today and ignored all of them, caught as I was in the spell of this book. I will read any book I can about this character.
Great book! I was sucked in from the first page. An exciting story and a compelling main character. I love Jacky's voice; it's very strong. I finished it this morning and today I got the sequel out of the library! :D yaay
Why did I wait so long to read/listen to this?? The audiobook RULED! Except that I had a cockney accent all night last night.
is it me or does any story having to do with the high seas not including jack sparrow not seem complete.
4.5 I listened to this as an audiobook and just really, really liked it. I was alone with my 5 kids driving 13 hours on hardly any sleep but this book kept me awake and smiling the whole time. The narrator has a perfect accent and tells the story as of she isn't even reading it. I really loved the main character. Can't wait to listen to more of these.
She comes fully alive in Kellgren's telling – smart, resourceful, self-deprecating, tender-hearted yet practical.Much of the humor and dramatic tension in the story comes from Jacky's efforts to maintain her disguise – first because she does not think through all the implications ("What about the call of nature, you twit?") and second because she begins to fall in love with another ship's boy, Jamie Fletcher, who comes from a respectable family fallen on hard times.
