https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8087.Deerskin
Halfway through, the writing is beautiful, exquisite, but circles around and repeats itself so often I was on page 90 before anything had actually happened, which would be fine, except for the hazy treatment of rape and incest.
Boring is a mild word for it - I've never read anything that dragged, and dragged, and dragged for 300 pages and repeated the same sentiments so often.
McKinley's view of trauma - rape, incest, miscarriage - is absolute crap and offensive to people who have actually been through those things.
I couldn't believe she tried to romanticize such horrible things.
McKinley has covered many fairytales in her novels, but this is the one that haunts me the most.Based on Perrault's "Donkeyskin" Deerskin is the story of princess Lissla Lissar, daughter of the most beautiful woman in the world.
(view spoiler)[Unnerved by her father's unnatural behaviour towards her Lissar tries to avoid him, but on her 17th birthday he breaks into her bedroom and rapes her.Lissar escapes, barely alive, and is granted the time and space to heal by the moon goddess.Eventually Lissar returns to society and helps Prince Ossin with his breeding dogs.
(hide spoiler)]The dreamlike quality of the writing means that the trauma scenes are obscured.
It's handled with sensitivity and might be cathartic for some readers, but it's definitely not light reading.Lissar is a young, shy princess with a drop-dead gorgeous mother.
As Lissar grows older and becomes the image of her mother, her father becomes unhealthily obsessed, culminating in one horrible night.
It's a very gradual healing process for Lissar, with some tremendously difficult times.
But make no mistake, this is a difficult book to read.
Aside from the subject matter, Lissar's interior monologuing is too long-winded at times, and McKinley's penchant for nightmarish, incomprehensible scenes gets full play here (twice, in fact!).
"I am hurt...in ways you cannot see, and that I cannot explain, even to myself, but only know that they are there, and a part of me, as much as my hands and eyes and breath are a part of me." This book seemed like a less sophisticated ancestor of Tender Morsels. I got a bundle deal on several of Mckinley's works and so I went into this novel with no idea what it was about.It was a tiny bit of a shock.I really enjoyed this book. It inspired a deeply emotional response. Recently, I've been less i
I got a bundle deal on several of Mckinley's works and so I went into this novel with no idea what it was about.It was a tiny bit of a shock.I really enjoyed this book.
It was a story that was meant to speak to girls and women trapped in sexually abusive relationships with men who had complete power over them.McKinley (thankfully) choose to tell the more optimistic version of the tale.
Another reviewer stated that "McKinley's view of trauma - rape, incest, miscarriage - is absolute crap and offensive to people who have actually been through those things.
I don't know if it was because I knew exactly what was going to happen from the very start (but what did I expect, this is a fairy tale retelling?) or if it was the deliberately languid quality of the prose in which McKinley chooses to tell her tale that didn't quite work for me.
And I know that this is exactly how it would be, that it couldn't really be anything else, but it was dull for me to read about a person who is simply pulled like a puppet on a string without any rhyme or reason throughout most of the book.
Originally reviewed on The Book Smugglers Trigger Warning: Rape, abuse, incest. Princess Lissla Lissar is the daughter of a heroic and handsome king, who won the hand of the most beautiful woman in the Seven Kingdoms. Every night, Lissar listens to her nursemaid spin the same tale - the story of her father, winning her mother's hand over the other six Kings by completing an impossible, superhuman task. Every day and every night, Lissar hears the story of her mother's incredible beauty and her fa
Every day and every night, Lissar hears the story of her mother's incredible beauty and her father's heroic deeds, and how much everyone in the kingdom loves their royal leaders.
Here, Lissar makes a new life for herself - but she will be forced to confront her past once and for all, with a future of hope and happiness waiting for her.Deerskin is not an easy book to read.
But beyond the setting, the telling, and the world, Deerskin is really a book that comes down to a horrific story, and a young woman's stubborn will to live.
With Deerskin, Robin McKinley moved from writing award-winning children’s fiction (The Hero and the Crown) to writing adult fantasy.
In fact, this novel is so adult (the story includes rape and incest) that McKinley says it’s the only book for which she’s received hate mail.
Inspired by aspects of “Donkeyskin,” a little-known fairy tale by Charles Perrault, the journey of heroine Lissla Lissar is a harrowing but deeply affecting story about the power of love and the possibility of healing from the most grievous wounds.
Despite the disturbing aspects, it’s a highly recommended tale of hope and renewal for a cold autumn night.
The turning point begins when her mother dies and she receives a puppy as a gift of condolence from Prince Ossin whom she names Ash. Her Dad, crazy with grief over the loss of his Queen, turns into a nutcase and completely forgets he has daughter for several years.
Lissar's dog Ash is the glue that holds her together through good times and bad.So, if you're up for an emotional read that is well worth the pain put a day aside to read this one, just make sure you have a box of Kleenex handy.
I knew it was about a woman who was raped by her father when I bought it.
It was on a list compiled by NPR of books about strong women.
The rest of the book is about her healing, and her recovery, and the way she comes into her own power.
It's also about the dog, and then dogs, as she finds her way to the court of the man who'd given her the dog in the first place, and she nurses a litter of puppies whose mother died and she keeps them alive along with herself.I hadn't read Robin McKinley before, but now will have to look at her other books.
The turning point begins when her Mother dies and she receives a puppy as a gift of condolence from Prince Ossin whom she names Ash. Dear old Dad, crazy with grief over the loss of his Queen, turns into a nutcase & completely forgets he has daughter for several years.
The scenes with the puppy rearing, Lissar's eventual opening up to Prince Ossin & the magical, mystical qualities of the story make this a must read.
Lissar's dog Ash is the glue that holds her together through good times and bad.
TW: rape, incest, abuse She had decided to live. If she could not think of certain things, she would not think of them. There were other things to think of, immediate things. I recently got rid of someone from my feed on this website for laughing at trigger warnings, so if you're of the same opinion of that particular sot, take yourself out. It's bad enough that I have to pick apart my students at work for hurling the phrase "triggered" around, as if it wasn't scary enough for neuroatypicals and
It's bad enough that I have to pick apart my students at work for hurling the phrase "triggered" around, as if it wasn't scary enough for neuroatypicals and sexual assault survivors, what with movies like Split and the rest (You know around 70% of people with DID developed it as a result of being sexual assaulted as a child, right?
How accurately it portrays the degradation and healing is a complicated question, as this is the fantasy world portrayed by the books that I read when I was younger, and the more adult themes (we call these things adult when it is the children whom we refuse to stand for) does not cancel out the dragons, or the time travel, or the haunting.
A fairy tale in only the technical term, Deerskin takes place in a nameless land within the "seven kingdoms", where a young princess is known for nothing but being the daughter of the best king and most beautiful queen ever.
There is very little within her that really feels like a princess, and this is a very important aspect of her personality.As soon as it stops reading like another fairy story (although her kingdom, and indeed any of the others, get named), the description becomes abundant, even excessive.
4.5 STARSThis was so different and so good. Fantasy, magic, tragedy and a bit of romance rounds out this beautifully written book. I've read 'Sunshine' by this author and liked it, but this was on a whole other level.The circumstances of Lissar's escape were heartbreaking and brutal. There is incest here, so if that's a trigger then avoid this. However, if that's something you can handle in the context of an amazing story of resilience, hope and new beginnings, then read this book.
4.5 STARSThis was so different and so good. Fantasy, magic, tragedy and a bit of romance rounds out this beautifully written book. I've read 'Sunshine' by this author and liked it, but this was on a whole other level.The circumstances of Lissar's escape​ were heartbreaking and brutal. There is incest here, so if that's a trigger then avoid this. However, if that's something you can handle in the context of an amazing story of resilience, hope and new beginnings, then read this book.
I love this book. It's incredible. Robin McKinley did an amazing job of taking a fairy tale and creating a beautiful story of strength and survival out of it.If you are not yet coping with a sexual abuse trauma, don't read this book. If you have no sexual abuse trauma, or are dealing with it, this book is wonderful. If you are in that first category, I think it would be too jarring, too raw, too something.
A beautiful princess, largely ignored for much of her life, comes to the attention of her father, the King, after her mother passes away.
After beating and raping her violently, leaving her for the dead, the King leaves Lissra to her fate.But she survives.
And as a survival tale of courage, this book excels.
I was willing to forgive the slow passages in-between in favor of a 4 Star rating as well - that's how well this book was shaping up - but it seems I am doomed to give McKinley's novels no more than a mere 3 Stars.
Unfortunately, where this book lost me was in Lissra's ultimate healing.
Maybe Beauty or Rose Daughter will change my mind yet.
I've been wanting to read this for SO LONG and finally bought it.
Read like a fairy tale and was a slow fantasy, but I really did enjoy it.
Ash is the best dog and I want one.
Kind of wished for a bit more time seeing the Ossen and Lissar interact and a bit more after the wrap up for ship reasons.
I kind of wanted more answers about the Moonwoman and exactly how/ why Lissar's appearance changed, as well as a bit more explanation about what exactly happened during some of the confrontation scene (it was a massive wtf moment)
I have hit page 92 and I am officially done reading this book.
I understand it's based on a creepy old fairy tale, but neither the main character nor her father were believable.
I didn't really see overarching reason for their actions at any point.Add to that the ponderous fairy-tale language and the obsession with the dog, which was not interesting to me...yeah no thanks.
And here I was, excited to treat myself to a "trashy fantasy book"...I am glad for the other reviews on this site, as they've confirmed what I've been thinking, and now I won't have to waste any more time.
I know 4 stars seems like a high rating, but honestly I'm disappointed I could not give this book 5 stars. It has all the ingredients of my 5 star books: princes, romance, intelligent heroines. There was loyalty and puppies and a beautiful princess. And I loved the story, especially told in Mckinley's pretty prose. But this book dragged, and I mean DRAGGED. I like books that make me savor each and every word but this one made me skip entire pages because absolutely nothing was happening for pages at a time.
DNF. Waaaaaaaaay to wordy, I lost interest after she made it through Winter, met the magical lady, and just finds civilization again. I tried skimming, but the descriptions and inner monologues went on for pages.
This is a story based on Charles Perrault's darkly adult fairy tale, Donkeyskin.
It's the tale of your usual most-beautiful-princess - with a twist.
I found Part One (84 pages) very tiresome and tedious, with the language very 'fairy-tale-like', which is great in a short fairy tale but not so fun in a book.
As much as I like McKinley, and as much as I enjoyed Part Two of the novel, I have to rate it lower since the beginning and end weren't as pleasing.
Weird and awful and heartbreaking but also hopeful.
Those aren't nearly enough adjectives to describe this story, but it's a start.
I mean, WOW.
It was a powerful story but one that left me with a lot of questions, as well.
Dead queen.
Mad king.
Runaway princess.
Faithful canine companion.
Eccentric Moonwoman.
Kind prince.
So many characters and motivations to make sense of.
But in essence, this was a story of grief and healing and doing what's right, even in the face of your own failings.
I still don't entirely know how I feel about it, except that it won't deter me from reading McKinley's other novels.
DNF because this king beats then rapes his own full-blood daughter before planning to marry her and no, thank you, we're not tolerating any of that foul perversity today. What is wrong with you, Robin McKinley.
Deerskin is very well-written; McKinley has such a way with words that the book does feel like a fairy tale, but at the same time honest and real.
You probably have to at least like dogs to truly enjoy this book: Lissar’s dog Ash gets a lot of page time.
The romance is sweet, too.I found the book to be compelling reading throughout, and was certainly glad for Lissar when her life started to improve, but it’s worth noting that Ossin’s kingdom, where she winds up, is probably the biggest fairy tale in this book.
Like a Jane Yolen book is never bad.Deerskin is based on "Donkeyskin", a Charles Perrault tale that is usually neutered and deals with the theme of incest.
These tales are related to "Cinderella" but are darker in nature for the princess flees her father who wants to marry her.McKinley's retelling is a study in the recovery from abuse and assault.
In the orignial stories, the princess is able to fool her father and her court by demanding dresses, which she takes with her when she flees.
Lissar, McKinley's princess, cannot do this.
Yet, because of the inner journey, it keeps true to the tale.
The plot dragged in the middle but it has a pretty typical fairy tale arc(view spoiler)[Princess runs away, pretends to be a commoner, she meets a prince.
The Goddess was completely benevolent, but there's some evil magic happening?
Was there an evil mirror image of the Goddess, represented by Mom Queen?
(hide spoiler)]Also, the relationship with her dog is one of the most touching animal relationships I've read.(view spoiler)[ I almost cried when Ash was injured (and no where else).I liked the ending with Ossin a lot.
(hide spoiler)]Overall it's successful at what it's aiming for: a dark retelling of a fairy tale.
It made it feel like a cheap excuse to send Lissar off to fall in love with Ossin, without writing (or figuring out how it would be possible) living in the cabin for years, something that would stop readers from going 'but she was only just traumatically raped, how could she fall in love now?'That said, I did enjoy the Moonwoman myth, just not the way it conveniently melded with Lissar to shift her in and out of camouflage and give her places her to stay when she needed it.
Robin McKinley's writing is much less fluid and well-thought than in the other books I've read, but the story is a great adaptation of the (super creepy) fairytale and she handles the sexual abuse and recovery of the main character pretty well, although her SUPER AMNESIA is a little implausible but whatever.
I feel like the goddess part of the story should have had a more prominent role because until the ending (when sh*t gets weird) Deerskin is not sure if she just imagined everything or what.
Her one companion is her dog, Ash, a condolence gift from Prince Ossia, and the two are inseparable.As Lissla grows, she comes to resemble her mother both in looks and in beauty.
When her father sees her, he insists that she must marry him, to fulfill his promise to her mother that he marry only a woman as beautiful as she was.On Lissla's 17th birthday, he breaks into her room, and rapes her.She escapes with Ash, and while she heals outwardly, inwardly she is destroyed.
She travels to another kingdom, and there finds work training the dogs for the castle.
The best part is Lissla's relationship with her beloved Ash, where the love for the dog shines through.Only for McKinley completists.
probably wasn't a good idea.I might read it again, someday, when I'm more comfortable with the themes.
I love stories based on fairytales, particularly less well known ones, and I like McKinley's writing in general, and her writing is a joy to read normally.
this book wasn't a good idea for me.I can't even think how to rate it, because it's so tinged by how I felt about the events and themes.
So, bear in mind that my rating is based on my personal reaction, and not on any objective judgement.
The one that includes rape and incest in the text as important plot points and does not even imply them on the jacket copy as elements.Luckily, I do not have triggers around either topic, but if I had, it would not have gone well for me.
The plot is basically about recovery from incestuous rape with a crouton of survivalism on top and a drizzle of YAY PUPPIES.It was certainly compelling reading, and Ossin was a completely awesome love interest, but I kind of wanted McKinley *not* to follow the pattern of giving Lissar a love interest (and such an obvious one, too, that really disappointed me).
