https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1915739.It_s_the_Great_Pumpkin_Charlie_Brown
A pretty nearly yearly read in this house, and a classic, of course, featuring the somewhat confused Linus who writes a letter to the Great Pumpkin, fully expecting him to arrive, with presents.
It won't be me to tell him the truth, having kept secrets about Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny from my own children for years.
WBut who could deny the adoring younger sister Sally the opportunity to sit in the "most sincere" pumpkin patch with her sweet brother Linus?
And of course Charlie Brown (sorry, spoiler!) gets a rock in his trick or treat bag; in spite of that, he is still there to comfort Linus in the end.
We read this book every year and even when it's not Halloween. Ours is a 1972 printing and a Charles Schulz favorite all about Linus and his belief in the Great Pumpkin. He gives up trick-or-treating to wait for the Great Pumpkin on Halloween night and just about the only person who believes he might be on to something is Sally."Dear Great Pumpkin, I am looking forward to your arrival on Halloween Night. " - LinusWill the Great Pumpkin bring toys and visit Linus this year? Follow along to find out!
Even though the book was adapted for the television classic, both are classics as far I'm concerned!
Adorable Linus with his faithful blankie give up trick-or-treating to sit in the pumpkin patch waiting for The Great Pumpkin.
In the meantime, Chairlie Brown is having wardrobe malfunctions with his costume.
Halloween is my FAVORITE holiday and I adore all books that bring out the child in us during this time of year.
I also totally relate to Linus and his desire to see the Great Pumplin!
There is Santa Claus, Leprechauns, the Easter Bunny...why don't we ever see the Great Pumplin?!?
Oh well, there's always next year!
I didn't realize the book has been around for so long.
I have long adored the TV special this is based on.
I have to admit I like the TV special better.
That's why this isn't 5 stars.
This book follows the show accept it leaves out the dance sequence they always have.
The kids love the TV special too and so they were glad to be able to have an experience of it since we don't own it.
We talked about the show while reading the book and it brought back good memories.
They gave it 5 stars.
I read this book every year for Halloween...always puts a smile on my face. I am still waiting in my pumpkin patch...next year will be the year it all pays off (I keep telling myself).
Read it aloud to my cat and she purred the whole time.
Ah, Nostalgia...The book left out a lot of the story from the cartoon (like most of the Snoopy stuff.) It still had enough to be fun and entertaining.
The actual title is It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown: The Making of a Television Classic by Lee Mendelson with Reminiscences by Bill Melendez.
It's a book that's filled with over 150 gorgeous illustrations, and memories for all of us who grew up watching the Charlie Brown specials.It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown was first shown in 1966.
It's a treat to read the reminiscences by Lee Mendelson and Bill Melendez, two of the three men who created an American memory.
Anyone and everyone should be familiar with the names Charles M.
Instantly when you hear these names you think of Charlie Brown.
I can remember watching the television special of The Great Pumpkin with Charlie Brown and the gang.
I had such an enjoyable time reading this book and getting to learn how the whole Halloween special came to be.
If anything after reading this book, it made me want to re-watch this Halloween special.
There is nothing more classic than Charlie Brown and the rest of the gang.
Such a wonderful story for children. We read this book to get in the Halloween spirit, and it did just that. Reading the book, you could just picture the cartoon and all of the characters talking in their voices, like Lucy with her dramatic, sassy attitude! Great read that displays the well known friendships this gang possesses and some truly terrific Halloween festivities and traditions.
In this book, Linus persists on his quest to wait for the Great Pumpkin to come on Halloween to give gifts to all of the good girls and boys. His sister Lucy carries him home from the pumpkin patch after finding him asleep. This is a fun book for Halloween to show how differently people interpret holidays.
This book is excellent. very beautiful and vibrant pictures. This is Charles Schulz art at it's finest. if you are a fan of Charles Schulz art and The Peanuts Gang you need to add this series of books to your collection. It would also make a treasured book for children as this is what it's meant to be and certainly brings the magic of the season alive.
This classic is a must read for every elementary class around Halloween. We have it on our Nook and my boys love hearing it read there and all the interactives with it there. Linus believes that the Great Pumpkin is real and comes around every Halloween and he tries to convince his friends of this. Sweet story!
Snoopy. Linus waiting in the pumpkin patch. Lucy screaming "AUGH! my lips touched dog lips!" And Charlie Brown's "I got a rock." What else can I say? It's a classic, whether on TV or in book form. Perfect Halloween reading!
It's Charles Schulz and Charlie Brown. How can you go wrong? And what more does a review need to say?
A few years ago, I got some hand-me-down books and one of which was It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown.
Now that I do, I'm fully entertained and delighted to get my hands on It's the Great Pumpkin: The Making of a Television Classic.
The TV specials are neat on their own, but the treasures that these "Making of a Television Classic" coffee table books bring to any family is fabulous!
I received this product free for the purpose of reviewing it.
I received no other compensation for this review.
Find this and other reviews on Where's My Bookmark?Rating: 4.5/5It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown: The Making of a Television Classic is a great edition to your personal library especially if you are a fan of Peanuts.It’s the Great Pumpkin is a quick read that is fun for all ages and fans - big or small.
It offers a great and thoughtful look into the conception and making of this television classic.This book is a must because it not only includes information on how the television special was made, but includes the original storyboards, a fully illustrated script and musical scores.It was really fun to read about the writers and artists take on how this special was made.
It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown is no different.
This is why this book is so special.In this updated version It’s the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown: The Making of a Television Classic, we are able to go behind the scenes, read conversations, get some background context to the story and its origin all while enjoying the images that made up this TV program.Many times, while reading this book and flipping through the pages, I couldn’t help but smile at the illustrations and sheet music.
There is something about Charlie Brown so many of us love.
Yeah, another cool Charlie Brown book.
At the outset of this slender volume, Linus is writing a note: "Dear Great Pumpkin, I am looking foreward to your arrival on Halloween night." Snoopy and Lucy thought it was foolhardy, whereas Sally bought into the idea.
Lines says that "Each year on Halloween night, the Great Pumpkin rises out of the pumpkin patch that he thinks is the most sincere and flied through the air with his pack of toys for all the good little children in the world."The story goes on from there.
Does Linus actually see the Great Pumpkin?
It's the Great Pumpkin! I love Linus' faith in all things. He has got to be the most optimistic character in the entire Peanuts bunch! He has such optimism that everything is going to work out okay. I had never heard of the Great Pumpkin until the Peanuts but I liked how it was tied back to Snoopy. I did not like how Charlie Brown only received rocks. One positive thing from the story was Lucy lighting up on her brother. It was very nice of her getting extra candy for him and caring him inside from the pumpkin patch.
The classic book that follows all of your favorite peanuts characters at Halloween. Linus waits in the pumpkin patch for the great pumpkin to show up. The rest of the gang trick or treat and get Halloween candy. It is a short and fun read for any age students. It would be an excellent way to incorporate some fun Halloween activity or just read when you have a few spare minutes in between transitioning classes or before dismissal.
It took me a year to discover that this book was out. I had no idea. It not only features an engaging history of how the legendary TV special was made (and aired only two months before my birth), but it also features the complete, illustrated screenplay by Charles M. Schulz, which also features additional dialogue that was not in the film. Fear not! This pulling-back-the-curtain book does not take away any of the magic of the Great Pumpkin, but actually enhances it.
you can't have halloween without costumes, candy, and charlie brown.the next day charlie brown tried to make linus feel better. "don't take it too hard. i've done a lot of stupid things in my life too.""waiting for the great pumpkin isn't stupid!" linus replied. "just wait until next year, charlie brown. you'll see. i'll find a pumpkin patch that's real sincere and i'll wait until the great pumpkin rises up..."and who knows? maybe next year...
What kid didn't watch the Peanuts specials religiously as a kid back in the day? But I don't think I ever really paid attention to what a sad-sack Charlie Brown really is.But this book was fun just for me and my kids to laugh at Charlie Brown getting a bag full of rocks while trick-or-treating or how his ghost sheet/costume consists of 6 holes instead of just two. (Modern day Charlie Brown would totally snap from being bullied so much and end up mowing down everyone in his path.)
This is a fantastic book for fans of Charlie Brown, and it is perfect for the night before Halloween. I think this is a must have for classrooms of all ages, as it will be familiar to older students who grew up watching Charlie Brown, and funny for younger children as a Halloween book.
Loved the illustrations but the story was just so so. As much as I love Snoopy and Charlie Brown, this book was a bit repetitive. Connor loved it but I prefer the holiday special.
Of course I've read it--it's a classic!
This is the closest publication to the copy I have (the Signet Comic published in 1967). Such a cute little Halloween story with Charlie Brown and Snoopy. The tv special is a tradition I never miss!
One of the classics! So good!!!!
Based upon the animated Peanuts holiday movie of the same name, broadcast on American television in 1966, this sweet picture-book follows the (mis)adventures of Charlie Brown and his friends on Halloween night.
Perhaps next year, he will find the right patch in which to wait...The edition of It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown that I read was published in 2015, and lists someone named Kara McMahon as an adapter, so I would assume that the story I experienced was not the full version, as written by Schulz.
We didn't have a television in the house when I was young, so I've never seen any of the Peanuts specials.
