https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24847.A_Feast_of_Snakes
Every year in the little town of Mystic, Georgia (high school football team "the Rattlers"), there is a "Rattler Day," which features the crowning of a high school girl as "Miss Rattler," followed by her ritual torching of a huge snake effigy, followed in turn by a pit bull battle.
Then, the next day, the real fun: hundreds of snakes are released into the woods and the snake hunt begins .
Many of the incidents are shocking, vicious and memorable, but--in spite of its spare style and mere 175 pages--it meanders (like a snake?) until it reaches its violent, inadequately motivated end.
A Feast of Snakes: Harry Crews' Surreal Novel of Sex, Snakes, and the Winding Way to the FutureA Feast of Snakes by Harry Crews was chosen by members of On the Southern Literary Trail as the Pre-1980 Group Read for December, 2015. Special thanks to Trail Member Leanne for nominating this work. “That was the only decision there was once upon a time: what to do with the night.”  Harry Crews (June 7, 1935-March 28, 2012)I was introduced to the works of Harry Crews through the anthology Grit Lit: A
Let Harry Crews take you down to Mystic, Georgia, for the annual Rattlesnake Roundup, a dark mixture of booze, sex, football, and violence, in his eighth novel, A Feast of Snakes.
But his predatory sexual practices will exact rough justice when he chooses the wrong woman to mess with and pushes her over the limits of sanity.As the hunters and tourists gather for the roundup, Joe Lon sees his chance for a return to the glory days when Berenice comes home from the University of Georgia.
In the first, Crews has Joe Lon Mackey seeking a nostalgic return to the days of his past fame.
In one of his essays collected in Blood and Grits Harry Crews explains that there came a time when he was trying to write fiction that he realized, if he was going to be any good at his craft, that he had to stop pretending to be someone he wasn't and start writing about what he knew.
Going nowhere fast.Joe Lon Mackey, the former All-American running back from Mystic, Georgia could be considered the protagonist of the story, but that would be a lie.
Crews writes in the third person omniscient about Joe Lon: He wished to God he could escape.
Crews is the Doppelgänger of Joe Lon. He proves that you can get out, that life is better.
This book is completely bonkers!
Harry Crews's southern Gothic tale packs in racism, rape, dog-fighting, madness, suicide, murder, wife-beating, and snakes, snakes, and more snakes.
But I gave it five stars because it's unlike anything I've ever read, and I think it will stay with me for a long time.
The crazy end of the book is, of course, as inevitable as it is completely over the top.
(It is Gothic after all.) Dark and darker, even in the moments that were meant to be comedic.
Read at your own risk.
Bizarre side characters, baton twirling, and a cultish devotion to snakes all adorn this freakish crown of grit lit.Why will most people shy away, then?
Doglike devotion that will revolt you.But it is amusing in a dark way!
When two local studs are challenging a newcomer as he pumps iron outside his camper, they decide to beat the muscle man at his own game (page 85):"Joe Lon and Willard slipped out of their shirts.
Willard flipped over and walked around in the dirt on his hands.
Joe Lon took the bottle of whiskey out of his back pocket, set it carefully on the step of the Winnebago, checking out Susan Gender's red pants again as he did.
When you get right down to it and cut all the bullshit? A snake may be one mean, cowardly and cold-blooded a motherfucker; but you hold 'em up and compare to a wretched excuse for the Lord's Creation like people? Hell, the way people is gonna make snakes look good every day of the goddamn week.
She liked the sweat, liked the way it felt, slick as oil, in all the joints of her body, her bones, in the firm sliding muscles, tensed and locked now, ready to spring--to strike--when the band behind her fired up the school song: "Fight On Deadly Rattlers of Old Mystic High." "He said in an interview on video this..."The writers job is to get naked!To hide nothing.To look away from nothing.To look at it.To not blink.To be not embarrassed or shamed of it.Strip it down and lets get down to where the blood is, the bone is.Instead of hiding it with clothes and all kinds of other stuff, luxury!"He has achieved this successfully with this story.
A bunch of crazy folks (including Joe Lon,our unlikeable moonshine selling protagonist) in Mystic, Georgia are gearing up for the annual snake round up. Just about everything you don't want to read about from brutal dog fighting to dismemberment , in one (thankfully) short book. On The Southern Literary Trail -catch up.
There should be a lawyer from Atlanta putting together a class action suit against Harry Crews on behalf of everyone who lives in rural Georgia.
This is the 2nd Crews novel I've read and in each one he organises a crazy frenzied crowd-goes-raving-mad scene at the end, like a southern gothic version of a gang of peasants burning down Frankenstein's castle.
Kind of like throwing us all a big party.So Harry Crews, yeah, he's another novelist I'd walk on the other side of the road to avoid.
But I think that was entirely the point.I haven't read Crews before and I probably wouldn't have if it wasn't this month's book club book.
I'm not opposed to Southern gothic lit - Flannery O'Connor is one of my favorite writers, I've mostly enjoyed most of what I've read so far by Daniel Woodrell, and there are others that my sun-stroked mind isn't coming up with right now.There's a grittiness in all these authors that appeals to me, normally.
I don't know enough about him and while I haven't read anything else by him, I'm under the impression most of his fiction is like this.But, whatever, it's a mean, mean story.
If you read to feel bad, this book is for you.
Ok, I simply hated this book.
It was something like being on a bad acid trip (if you can't imagine that, then trust me).
I've never really hated a book before this one (and hope to never again), but this book gave me the worst feeling to my core.
I finally just put it down for good at the point in the story where there is a scene of animal cruelty.
I didn't see the point of prolonging the agony.
“I don’t like snakes,” she said.
“You’re in a hell of a place if you don’t like snakes.
Why’d you come?”Faulkner said— or, it’s something close enough to what Faulkner would say— you can’t understand the world until you’ve understood a place like Mississippi.
This, right here, seems to add: you can’t understand the world until you’ve understood Mystic, Georgia.
Harry Crews doesn’t put this place on the map.
This is the map.
It meant that somewhere there inside him was a little knot of craziness that made him pay the price.”Meaning, this is one hell of a book.
Wicked people doing wicked things.
It's grotesque, appalling, shocking, monstrous and outrageous.
It's not for the faint, but I'm not sure who is meant to read this.
It opens your eyes to some crazy crap!
Harry Crews draws you to this place and group of people that you can't step away.
It's a rough read but I liked it, a lot.
December Read for The Trail nominated by GR friend LeAnne, who liked it, too.
Also, liked by GR friend Kirk.
Now it's documented and I don't feel so weird for liking this book so much I gave it 4 stars.
Sumbitch, that was violent and crazy. Extra point for creative concept. A Classic!
Read this from the opening of Part Two, and bear witness to the particular genius of Crews atop his own private Idaho: “Duffy Deeter in an effort of will was thinking of Treblinka.
Behind his pinched burning eyelids he saw a pile of frozen eyeglasses where they had been torn from the faces of long lines of men, women, and children before they had been led into the gassy showers.
Duffy’s gaze remained on the two young men for a long moment and then he clamped his eyes shut again.
Oh Jesus Oh God. Think about those showerheads and the wonderful gas spewing out into the children.
Excellent stuff - the only reason it did not get 5 stars is because I am far too much of a middle-class englishman to really love this sort of thing, and there was not enough going on on a prose level to make up for any lack of engagement with the narrative (not that the writing was in any way deficient - he writes brilliantly).
I am now officially a Harry Crews fan.This novel is mad, seductive and trashy in the best way. The characters are ghoulish, cheerleaders & all. The snakes play an incredible role. They're worshipped, taunted, revered, skinned & ingested - I loved their omnipotent presence.Joe Lon, The protagonist wants to wail, grow in violence, he's all fists and need and his coiled malice erupts to a fantastic conclusion. There is much to admire here.
I acknowledge the power and intensity Harry Crews has at his command, but I do not admire his A Feast of Snakes.Each year in Mystic, Georgia, Jon Lon organizes the Rattlesnake Roundup, a festival that attracts a denizen of unsavory gypsies, thrill-seekers, and drunkards.
One wonders how Jon Lon expects to find “true love” if his definition involves atm, which Crews graphically describes in one of many vile, foul, and cruel sex scenes.
His father isn’t much different except that he bitches at his daughter since his wife killed herself years ago.The whole book is foul and cruel.
If I can muster a complaint about this book it is that I had to take my time wrapping my Yankee brain and tongue around sentences like, "Hit tetched me all the living while." But that is just a small hurdle for this Yankee reader because what pulled me in nose first into this book was the raw rough edges of the characters' lives.
This composite of tourists and the snake festival itself are more than enough to make the book severe but it is the local residents which draw Crews to write with a undeniable rough edge comparable to that of Cormac McCarthy.The darkness in Mystic becomes a common thing and the characters think nothing of the gloom in their lives or in the lives of others.
He makes Harrison read like a society page columnist in comparison.
I think if Camus had been born in Mystic, Georgia, he might've written this book instead of The Stranger.A similar existential abyss sits at the center of Crews's novel, an abyss as mean and violent and frightening as the snake pits and dog-fight pits covering the landscape.Just as it's almost impossible to embrace Meursault, it's impossible to like Joe Lon, a raging, wife-beating-cheating drunk.
Three audiences I will address:1) If you're familiar with this title, and know what you're getting into........go for it; it's a ruckus ride- pretty much what you expect it'll be based on what you know is coming.
You WILL NOT be able to tell your book club you liked this book- and you better have a pretty strong relationship with your spouse if you expect to talk through this one in any detail.
This book was not only disappointing, it was just plain dreadful.
None of the characters had any redeeming qualities, and I found the story sometimes dragging.
I know Mr. Crews has said he was influenced by Flannery O'Connor and I haven't read any of his other novels, but I don't believe there's any Flannery O'Connor influence here in this book.
As much as I love to read Larry Brown, Flannery O'Connor and other Southern novelists, I won't be reading anymore of Mr. Crews' works.
I grew up in a poor rural area of Missouri, but I can't remember any people like these.
This book is trashy and fun, pretty much summed up by this excerpt"But I can love you too, love you with all my heart, love...""Love," said Joe Lon, "is taking it out of you mouth and sticking in you ass.""Yes," she said, "oh, yes, that's...""But true love," he said, "goddam true love is taking it out of you ass and sticking it in you mouth."
"Rattlesnake fangs hanging from all the throats of the world."
She likes watching the TeeVee with Beeder, especially during the NBC Nightly News that was so much better than detective stories and soap operas where you had to "put up with a lot of talking and fooling around before you got to the good parts." The news "went right to the robbing and killing, the crying and the blood, burning buildings and mashed cars.
Joe knows that things have become a little crazy, as more and more people crowd into the campgrounds, overflowing the portapotties, and an undercurrent of violence begins to pervade the area.
Damn.
I mean goddamn.
I mean man, oh man, goddamn.
To say Harry Crews' A Feast of Snakes is dark sort of puts it mildly.
It's dark, it's way dark.
It's so dark I had to put it down a couple of times.
His characters are angry.
They lead dismal lives that could have been something else, except they chose to live them like they do.
Tortured animals, a million snakes, a couple of murders, a razor blade castration, and the strangest definition of true love that I've read in a long time.
Definitely not reading material for your mom's book club - unless your mom was Susan Atkins.
Madness
Not at all for the faint of heart. Not at all. Look away, I would tell myself, so I did, but not for too long before I had to pick it up again. This is not your average "portrait of a man unraveling" story but rather something so bizarre I just had to see it through to its end. All the way through I heard the voice of Flannery O'Connor swirling around in the back of my mind:https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/2675...More on this book later.
To take the edge off his sense of failure he’s turned to the bottle and still tries to maintain his top-dog status in the area.He has a hard-nosed father (Big Joe Lon) who has a talent for dog-fighting, a damaged sister who stays in bed all day watching TV, a sheriff friend who likes to play with young girls, a saintly wife and two children and a hot lust for an ex-girlfriend who has returned to Mystic from college.The opening at a football game is full of energy – sexual, violent and disturbing – and pregnant with the bizarre.
This is a dark, serious but sometimes comical look at people that many of us would avoid in real life. Crews does a great job at writing about the gritty, unpleasant and yes, offensive things that happen in life. Harry Crews is not for the faint of heart or the easily offended. But for me, he's one of the best, most honest authors out there .
