https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19334.The_Tale_of_Beatrix_Potter
After watching the wonderful movie "Miss Potter" starring Renee Zellweger, I had to read this 1946 biography of Beatrix Potter written right after her death at age 77.
It was published by the same company -- Frederick Warne & Co., Inc.
-- that published her famous children's books.
I was pleased to discover that the movie was fairly true to real life, especially in the romance with Norman Warne, though their engagement and his death took place later in their lives than in the movie -- they were both almost 40.The book also reveals the amount of detail that went into her drawings, and she was meticulous about authenticity of detail and color.
This biography of Beatrix Potter came into my hands serendipitously, so I was happy to give it a try, without knowing if it's the most completely researched one out there (I still don't know).
Margaret Lane writes engagingly, and the story of Potter's life really is far more interesting than anyone would expect.
The book was first published in the 40s, shortly after Potter's death.
My edition is the revised one from 1968, which takes into account the journal written in cipher that was only decoded in the 50s, so anyone looking to acquire the book should get the later edition.
Terasa seperti mengenali seorang sahabat, bermesra, mendapat beberapa tip penulisan, kemudian terasa juga kehilangannya pada akhir bab. Buku ini ditulis dengan laras bahasa fiksyen dengan lenggok yang baik, tidak seperti buku-buku bukan fiksyen yang agak 'kering' gaya penceritaan. Tiba-tiba saya jadi rindu pada wanita hebat ini dan terasa ingin kembali ke Lake District untuk 'bertemu' dengannya sekali lagi.
One could write a very creepy version of Potter's life: the lonely child upstairs with her little animals, the lonely woman living with her parents until age 47, writing strange and surprising violent children's stories about rabbits and rats.
She invested her earnings wisely by buying farmland in the Lake District.
When she finally found freedom and love in her marriage to the lawyer who helped her buy property, she devoted herself to the preservation of the Lake District landscape and to farming and sheep-raising.
Smart woman, dedicated, self-possessed.I preferred this older book to the more modern Beatrix Potter: A Life in Nature, by Linda Lear (2007).
This is a lovely story written by a lovely English Lady, wife of an Earl, and biography to many other authors, and a novelist herself as well.I particularly enjoyed the portions covering Beatrix Potter's childhood summers spent in Scotland, and her time enjoyed with her "grandmama" who allowed her to read in the family's literary collections.That this biography was published by the Warne company, the same company that published Beatrix's "little books," just adds to the delight in owning this book. It is one that I will save for my own grandchildren, and their children.
I love biographies of writers in general. I enjoyed this one. I loved the background info about Miss Potter's ancestry acknowledging the imprint of those that go before. I loved that despite Miss Potter's aristocratic upbringing she embraced and lived who she really was and became a sheep farmer! Her stories arose from her imagination as a result of being pent up in the city. Her soul wandered where her body could not yet go. (The recent movie "Miss Potter" based on this and other biographies is also well done--I enjoyed it)
A simple read for fans of Beatrix Potter and Peter Rabbit. It gave me good insight into her life.
Travers wrote, under the pen name of Milo Reve, in her review of Beatrix Potter’s biography “The Tale of Beatrix Potter” written by Margaret Lane.
After reading the “Hidden Child” I decided to read the “Tale of Beatrix Potter” and see if I could find some evidence supporting my perception of the emotional connection that Pamela L.
Travers must have felt when reading the “Tale of Beatrix Potter“.
But I believe that Beatrix Potter’s transformation in the second half of her life, from a timid and lonely child to a farmer, conservationist and a business woman caused Pamela L.
I saw the film "Miss Potter" last weekend and was spurred on to read her biography.
The only major criticism I have of it (which might not even be relevant now as I have a very old edition), is that it needs more photographs, more of her illustrations, a time-line/chronology, and I think some maps would have been great too.I read her books when I was younger and I've visited Hill top farm twice - once when I was little (so I don't remember much about it!) and the second time was the summer 06.
She was a person of quiet creativity, shy reserve, unpredictableness, deep love of animals, bluntness, love of the country, and great artistic gifts - just a person I would love to meet.
It is amazing to me that Beatrix Potter sent Peter Rabbit to six (I believe) different publishing companies and all turned her down.
She ended up publishing privately with modest success and finally convinced a publishing company to take the story on.
Little did she know then how great a success her tales would be and would continue to be for many, many generations to come.
I have been reading a series of fictional tales, based on fact, about Potter and decided I wanted to read a bio to get her real story.
Thanks to my small library's access to InterLibrary Loan, I had my choice of bios.
I thought a later bio would be full of literary criticism of her writing and I just wanted a straighforward story of her life.
This is what I got with this bio published in 1946.
There was one chapter about her books and their impact, and the rest was just about her life.
Absolutely lovely. I had the advantage of being able to consult our collection of Beatrix Potter's books while I was reading through her biography. Seeing the artwork and reading some of the stories at the same time they were being described in the book made it so enjoyable. I learned a ton, and Beatrix Potter certainly led an interesting life. A fun read.
The second biography I had read about Beatrix Potter, so no new huge revelations. This one was much less comprehensive and detailed, but I think I liked that it gave an intimate but broad view of her life. Lots of direct quotes of hers, excerpts of letters, and interviews with those who actually knew her as it was written not too long after her death, and published by the company who did her books. I highly recommend this to anyone wanting to know more about her without tons and tons of details.
A sweet book with many color illustrations and black and white photos. But just a sketch really of Potter’s life. The basic facts, an idea of her personality, and a chronology of her works. Still, worth the time and, having just visited Hilltop Farm and the Lake District, I enjoyed the descriptions of that area.
Read it two or three times.
Sweet little book. I loved that there is a complete reproduction of Potter's original "picture story letter" to Noel.
I liked this book very much, In the middle a bit boring, but overall a perfect insight in the life of Beatrix Potter
occasional beauty is due to the bloom of decayif the dead specimen were not passed skinning, they skinned it; if it were they busily boiled it and kept the bones
Miss Potter/Mrs. Heelis was very odd, quirky and incredibly talented. This is a fascinating, very well-written story of a very well known writer/artist who was, at the same time, very private and rather shy. I had no idea!
Great Biography! super nice and easy to understand.
A thorough biography spanning Beatrix Potter's life -- from a depressively isolated Victorian childhood through her creatively-driven adulthood and, finally, her happy old age as a wife and farmer.
I really enjoyed reading about her integration into the countryside, passion for Herdwick sheep, political activism (related to the lack of English toy manufacturers), and involvement in the conservation of the countryside through the National Trust -- all things I hadn't known about her life.The author uses a lot of Potter's own words (excerpts from correspondence with family, friends, children, admirers, etc.), which really give you a good feel for her character.
Reading the Beatrix Potter books to my daughter, I got to wondering about her life (as I always do), so I hunted down this biography.
Potter did not have an easy life, but she made the best of her circumstances, and was rewarded in the end.
This is not a tragedy; we have plenty of books to enjoy, and she had plenty of life to enjoy.
Still, this was a necessary read for anyone who's pored over these illustrations and recited the stories almost by heart, yet wondered where they sprang from.
Beatrix Potter achieved so much while maintaining a humbleness rarely appreciated, with the exceptions of biographical books such as this.This biography by Margaret Lane is nothing short of wonderful.
There is a distinct delicacy and exquisiteness throughout this entire book that made it impossible for me to do nothing more than finish it in one sitting.
This biography is a favourite of mine even though I have finished it less than half an hour ago.
This is a testament to Beatrix Potter's life and Margaret Lane's near perfect writing.
But the book's lack of psychological insight (which is what I thrive on) made it a bit slow going at times, and I also would have liked a little more information about the state of her family that kept her at home with her parents until she was well into her forties - cultural context perhaps about Victorian mores, etc.
A little vacation in that way, and quite satisfying to my idea of peaceful, full time spent in nature.
This early biography of Beatrix Potter provides a short overview of her life and work.
Since those two stories are out of copyright, the books and illustrations are available online through Project Gutenberg, and studying the pictures allows one to see the town and country as Beatrix Potter did.
They also brought back pleasant memories of a visit to Sawrey and Hilltop, with all Beatrix Potter's treasures still arranged the way she had them, the beautiful countryside, and a pub lunch in the dark interior of the Tower Arms (which is also pictured in one of her books.)
If you know and love Beatrix Potter this is a must read.
Excellently researched and lovingly written.Its interesting, gives beautiful background to her life and her stories.
The times she lived in, her love of nature, her inspiration and imagination.
Her childhood, her life as an artist and writer and eventually as a farmer.
Did you know that?
She went from city child to country farmer, with author/artist in between, how wonderful is that :) Its a great biography and in describing her life brings out the beauty of her stories and her well loved characters.
I'm going to collect them all :)
I adore Potter's stories and illustrations and still, to this day, re-read my treasury of her stories and get a huge kick out of her tales. The beginning of this biography was slow going, because the history of her family was confusing, but the further I got into it, the more charming it became. Beatrix Potter was notoriously private, so it was a real treat to read about the life behind the talking creatures!
I really, really liked this biography! I knew nothing about Beatrix Potter except that she was the author of several childhood favorites. Margaret Lane told her story in a very engaging, conversational way. As soon as I finished the book, I immediately wanted to see her illustrations again, pictures of she and her family, and the places she lived and visited. And now I want to see the movie based on her life. Very well done!
A well-written and enjoyable biography originally published in 1946, only three years after Beatrix Potter's death. The 1985 revision appears to have introduced some inconsistencies, but on the whole I enjoyed reading this. The biography has inspired me to re-read all the Beatrix Potter tales, which I look forward to!
The story of Beatrix Potter itself is fantastic. Understanding her biography helps you understand even better the world of Peter Rabbit and Jamima and Tittle Mouse, etc. However, I gave 3 stars only because of the language of the books - in places the sentences are so long and complicated that I had to re-read them several times before I was able to understand what the author wanted to say.
