https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75812.The_Closing_of_the_American_Mind
[Italics mine]The religious right and conservatism in its most popular and perverse form fail, as much as relativistic forms of liberalism, to establish anything like tension or tautness within the soul of man: it’s all ideology (which Bloom dismisses as mere “prejudice”), an invasion of the spiritual and the religious by “quacks, adventures, cranks and fanatics.” If Bloom finds the post-Enlightenment retreat from Christianity troubling, it is not because he regards Christianity as an expression of ultimate truth, but because the retreat from religion into the embrace of the natural sciences was so complete that matters of the soul, the good, the ideal were vanquished.
In it he critiques the American education system for removing the Great Books from the required reading in most colleges.
The Great Books should be read and in the originals, not in watered down or abridged versions--however much modern students complain about Dickens being repetitive, etc.
However, as Professor Bloom points out, it's really the educational system which did away with the Great Books in the 1960s.
As an insider to 'the system' I suppose he should know...
Bloom is spot on that we are depriving ourselves of so much when we do not read the Great Books!
Then you just think, "Wait a minute, that's not right at all." A more flagrant passage occurs toward the end of the book:In a democracy (the university) risks less by opposing the emergent, the changing and the ephemeral than by embracing them, because the society is already open to them, without monitoring what it accepts or sufficiently respecting the old.
I must admit that I still am grateful for this, albeit only partially.Allan Bloom's Closing, in fact, smoked all the cranky culture critics out of their armchairs and commenced open season upon academia.
We Christian conservatives are such suckers.We should have known we were had when Bloom published the sequel to Closing, Love and Friendship.
So, I am not averse to the return to Plato the Philosopher as a possible remedy to the problem of relativism.
So, hey, it's worth a shot.But Bloom was not calling for a return to Plato the Philosopher, the metaphysician who gave us the theory of forms.
I think his critique of lovelessness is less relevant to the young, when one is more likely to confuse love with sex anyway, as it might be to those in mid-life who find themselves questioning the value or even possibility of meaningful sexual relationships or of relationships generally that can be places where both people are able to grow and not whither in the dark shadows they cast upon each other.The stuff on Nietzsche – particularly Nietzsche’s attraction for the left – is something I’ve been more or less arguing for years.
mostly, this book is little more than a "get off my lawn" diatribe against any and all (race, sex, drugs, rock music) youth fascinations, blaming each of them in turn for the "Closing of the American Mind."Bloom continually condescends in the most irritating manner of the American intellectual elite; yammering on and on yearning for some lost set of ideals that never existed; kids who didn't slack off.
Quoting Socrates, Plato, Tocqueville to bolster arguments that are pointless and stupid, Bloom completely fails to engage and communicate anything meaningful, which of course may be the real reason his own Ivy League students seem so disengaged.
My 20-year-old self would have never understood the points Bloom was making, especially in regards to the moral relativist disgust of prejudices and true belief, which I erroneously called "open-mindedness".
My 40-year-old self, Thank God, knows that I am simply scratching the surface.Another factor in the failure of higher education is aliteracy.
340)"According to Bloom, the "radical truth" that colleges and universities are afraid to talk about is that their idea of this new liberal education isn't enough to warrant the four to five years they expect students to stay (and have their parents drop big bucks into).
The better books should be taught for the moral education of the student body while inferior books should be set aside (surely to be picked up by many people who, after graduating from university and having been introduced to the greats, choose to eschew them and read pulp instead.) I, like Bloom, regret that recent American culture has lost the sense of education as a kind of moral training.
Richard Heffner, one of Bloom’s interlocutors following the popular press cavalcade after the release of the book, suggested during his interview with the professor that being an elitist might mean “thinking some questions are better answered by Hegel than by Joyce Brothers.” By that measure, I would imagine the vast majority of intelligent people are in fact elitists.
On page 160, I decided to give it up.Mr. Bloom's politics and mine are totally incompatible.At the risk of oversimplifying his thesis, I fail to see how short skirts, rock & roll, and encouraging college students to have open minds has (to quote the subtitle) "...Failed Democracy And Impoverished The Souls Of Today's Students." I believe one of the purposes of a liberal arts education is to inform students of alternate value systems, and invite them to question their own received values, not necessarily for the purpose of changing those values, but to promote a deeper understanding of them and be able to defend them with something other than "Daddy [or the Bible, or my teacher, or insert authority figure of your choice here] said it, I believe it, and that settles it." While I mostly agree with Mr. Bloom's condemnation of moral relativism, I don't agree that all issues are black and white issues.
They say you should write about something you know. Mr. Bloom knows more about closed minds than most, but I think he should have kept it to himself.
Justeru ada kalanya beliau membawa ke hadapan hasil pemerhatian beliau terhadap anak2 muda di universiti Amerika yg mana beliau mempunyai pengalaman hampir 40 tahun mengajar; ada waktunya Bloom cuba untuk menjejak kembali sisa2 sejarah terhadap fenomena2 tersebut dan hal ini menyebabkan terdapat sisi 'intelectual history' dalam buku tersebut.
Terdapat kontinuum dalam pendapat2 beliau ini di mana beliau mahu menegaskan eternal truths tersebut tak boleh direndahkan martabatnya dgn daya relativism yg cuba merendahkan aristotle dgn berkata aristotle tidak mengiktiraf keupayaan berfikir kaum hawa, atau amalan demokrasi di Athens hanya terhad kepada gol2 aristokrat iaitu sekitar 30% shj dari jumlah rakyat ketika itu, atau bahawa Jefferson salah seorang founding fathers of America yg menegaskan setiap manusia adalah saksama dalam Deklarasi Kemerdekaan AmerikA sendiri mengamalkan perhambaan.Analisis2 tajam Bloom mungkin sukar diterima oleh ramai org.
that said, am still reading it as 'wrong.' author reveals his major malfunction late in the text, which occurred during a campus altercation wherein certain left activists occupied university buildings and apparently took hostages of university personnel.
this event, and university's failure to discipline, soured author on entire left project in the '60s, if indeed he was ever sympathetic.
worth reading however as author is certainly intelligent and deliberative.
i for one am not interested in allowing race or sex discrimination in the name of openness, so am not sure if there is any common ground to be found with author (not that he advocates for discrimination, of course).
When I refused a practical, career-driven Accounting program at [University] for the sake of studying Cognitive Science at [my University], I thought I was making the right choice.
It was not until my last year, when I decided to take some seminar classes, that I was rewarded by actually learning something worth knowing.
Over these four years, it has become increasingly clear to me that a University does not aim to educate you.
Street smart students know this already and do not expect to learn anything beyond applied science.
Professor Bloom is primarily concerned with the (perceived) failure of higher education to ground students in those ideas and ideals that gave rise to the modern educational institution in the first place.
His critique is fundamentally about education, about how our elite institutions equip their students to be leaders in society, and about whether that education facilitates the well examined life.While the book as prose drags somewhat in the midsection, this is interesting and thoughtful non-fiction on the nature and principles of education.
Still, reading this made we nostalgic for Bloom's sober and curmudgenly conservatism--so sure were they that the left would destroy American civilization that they forgot to watch out for the threat on the right that would eventually lead to the closing of the America mind, the sealing the lid and throwing away the key.
Bloom is absolutely right in his view of the problem--we need to read more books and engage more with absolute truth.
We need to have free, open, and intelligent debate.
But he thinks the problem is basically the Civil Rights and the womens rights movement.
One of the most influential books I've read in the last five years. The presentation of a brilliant mind. From a man that is an atheist, homosexual, and conservative. Not conservative in the Ronald Reagan sense. Conservative in that he admires Nietzsche and longs for ancient Athens. A very brilliant analysis of modern culture.
It is as if Bloom believes he has divined the totality of meaning in the last 200 years and he alone has the right to judge where the world is failing. He comes across as a grumpy old man who is angry at his students and refuses to believe things he does not like have any value.
Bloom believed it was the university's mission to equip students with the tools that would enable them to seek the answer to this question and to lead a philosophical life.
He finds that not only does no one have an answer, but no one even understands the questions.Bloom's confrontation exposes the modern American university for what it really is: one big self-esteem seminar where students are taught self-validation instead of self-examination.
I especially found the parts on Nietzsche and Freud important in regard to their impact on American culture.
At one point Bloom made the statement that Freud pulled the rug out from under our feet and the elevator plunged bottomlessly down into the psyche.
I think this is really apparent in a lot of postmodern and contemporary literature where there is a lot of soul searching and digging through the family tree towards the roots.
Bloom really brought me to thinking about literature and its underlying philosophical base especially in regard to our contemporary culture.
It is an important idea (a still much needed polemic against the American aversion to real learning), but it seems deployed with a level of arbitrariness.
I was with Bloom for the first few chapters.
But the curtain was lifted when I read his chapter on music.
It was specious at best, and much of the rest of what I read began to take on a suspiciously arbitrary feel.
Nevertheless, Bloom's book is perhaps the best we have of its kind.
Bloom's discussion of campus politics and the newly arrived student's hopes and frustrations cut too close to the bone for the general criticisms to hold much water; Noam Chomsky, as usual almost impossibly dismissive, called it mind-bogglingly stupid, and Lawrence Levine devoted an entire book to an argument that Bloom accepts and places in context in a few short pages.
Bloom's discussion of the student unrest that took place at Cornell in the late sixties makes the book of particular interest to those who went to school there, either before the protests or in their aftermath.
an analylitical look at the culture that is modern western society. our society as seen through the eyes of his 40+ years as a professor at an elite university and the degradation of mankind in the west (with plenty to say about the rest of the world, too). doesn't sound too compelling, but unlike the other half-million books on this subject, bloom's insights are at once intellectually honest, relevant and, at times, stunning. bloom dares you to reason with him. here he had placed political correctness and moral relativism on trial before the concepts were even catch-phrases in modern pop-culture.
I can't understand what I was thinking all those years ago, when I read this the first time. The author is obviously massively well read, and has a broad range of exposure and experience in arts, music, and literature. I have to wonder how a person with so much exposure to the best of western culture could author such a narrow, biased, sneering, elitist, and hateful rant. I'm so sorry that i wasted my time the first time, and doubly sorry now all these years later.
Some really good insights in here on how the new motto of American higher education is oxymoronic and ultimately devalues what education is meant to be...and also a whole lot of words that made my eyes glaze over as Bloom explores themes of philosophy in general that seemed to have little to do with his thesis.
That by saying we have to accept all ideas, that all ideas are valid, that every viewpoint and culture and stance is equally good and that the only "bad" opinion is the "closed-minded" opinion, we're being utterly ridiculous.
All beliefs are equally valid." To which I replied, "But my belief IS that there's Right and Wrong, and I think you're Wrong.
However, just like its posited theme of timeless quality (read Pirsig for a fab.
What he bemoans of the student populace (in general) as to egalitarian principals to trump all others is now (I think) shared and lead by progressive academia i.e. Berkeley, et el.
Good is relative and relative is all.
Crap leading to more crap.
Read the best books you can old and new.
Know where you stand (or sit) but not fully where you're going except in guidance of the overriding reach for to goodness not determined by the mob of technological ubiquity.
Read 'em and weep.
Oh, what a mind did Professor Ravelstein have!
Rock music leads to promiscuous sex, sex is bad when it has no consequences, blacks stick together, "no fault insurance, no fault divorce, and no fault sex" leads to lessening of our values, romantic love is dead, and so on, but that's not the reason he wrote the book and I won't mock him for those silly statements.He does state that "tradition and myths even if they are not real" help us determine our real nature and develop our soul.
But, I'm not sure since he is such a poor writer and it's hard to figure out what he is saying.There is one good thing about this book it's that he clearly shows how not to approach critical reasoning.
"There is one thing a professor can be absolutely certain of: almost every student entering the university believes, or says he believes, that truth is relative." So begins Allan Bloom's outstanding analysis of American universities and, more broadly, American culture.
However, none of these problems really belong to the middle classes, who are not reproducing themselves, are rarely raped or battered, but who are the best-rewarded beneficiaries of what they themselves propose.
Wistfully he ponders how his pure heart opened with joy when he first came to University of Chicago, and became acquainted with the classic thinkers: Rousseau, Plato, Nietzche.Bloom is certainly from another time and place (and proud of it!).
Bloom comes off as an educated idiot: bloated opinions, thoughtless in thoughts and out of touch.I'm struck by how many complaints of higher education are not even acknowledged in this book..
What is prescriptive here, or is it all naval gazing?Questioning cultural relativity and questioning the educational model of university programs is the type of book I would be interested in.
Hands down one of the most challenging (and illuminating) books I've read yet.
With an astonishing combination of insight, erudition, and philosophical richness, Bloom (in a nutshell) carefully traces the decline of educational standards within the university (especially with regards to the humanities), which he ultimately holds responsible for the anti-intellectual relativism and culture of self-interest that dominates the American mind to this day.
Although the book is well written on par, Bloom's esoteric, and sometimes loquacious, prose can be difficult to digest for the lay reader (such as myself).
Plentiful are the blank stares of a reader lost in confusion.
As such, a second, and perhaps even a third, reading are definitely in order for this modern masterpiece.
