https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28691.To_Green_Angel_Tower
A satisfying ending to an engaging trilogy.
I especially appreciated the return of “Rachel the Dragon” as an honoured elder lady, even as I grieved the loss of other characters.
I also have to say that I appreciated the focus on Miriamele, despite the fact that she often came across as spoiled and irrational.
I really liked the ending--it worked for me.
I always feel the tug of emotion as the war ends and the circle of friends must split up to return to their own lives—happy to get back to normal, sad to be parted.Book number 267 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
Three volumes and exactly one month later I finally finished this mammoth series.
Peter Jackson would make a hell of a movie out of it.This finale volume puts together all the pieces of the puzzle.
There is not a dull moment in the whole series and every little hint finds its closure in the end.Some people ask me why I read fantasy.
It’s because I love the worlds created, the valours – courage, friendship, loyalty -, love for nature and its ‘children’ and because good always prevails.
And for I have a great time reading it - it’s so damn fun and exciting!
It was a very long, meandering, interesting journey, at times bogged down by tedium, but at times full of tension, building up to a dramatic finale.In writing about the first book of this series I mentioned that this is kind of like a brother to The Wheel of Time and early Guy Gavriel Kay. Like, it's really interesting to see how it fits in the lineage of fantasy - you can see both the parts where it was obviously inspired by the likes of Tolkien and the parts where it has provided some inspiration to some of those who have come since in turn.
This trilogy was pretty much my first into fantasy. It was right after my first child was born and I had a lot of time stuck in the house to read. I had kind of thought fantasy was for, you know, geekish people which was a problem considering my husband and two best friends were all into it. I have now entered the geek and proud of it crowd. These books were wonderful and I have not stopped reading fantasy since.
Ful review to come. This was a buddy read with Laura from Fantasy Buddy Reads and there's not much I can say to add to the discussion of this trilogy besides the fact that it's one of the best fantasy trilogies I've ever read.
Loooooooooove <3 I don't even know how to review this book... it's massive. LOT's happen... it's amazing. I especially loved Miriamele's plot, and Tiamak's. Interesting new build characters on Cadrach and Camaris too.
If I were the type to go back and adjust ratings, I’d give four stars to Williams’ later Shadowmarch trilogy, and three for this.
The fact that Shadowmarch is so much better than MS&T shows me that Williams has grown as a writer and that the good stuff I remembered from my first read wasn’t an illusion.
Reread. Reviewing audiobook soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
It has some clever twists and surprises that I will mention:(view spoiler)[- Camaris still being alive at the end of the second book- Simon being a descendant of Eahlstan- Prester John didn't kill the dragon and lied about it- The dead of Amerasu- The prophecy about the swords and the false messenger turning against the forces of good- Vorzheva giving birth to twins- Josua still being alive after Elias' strike with SorrowAnd I'm sure there are more.
Mostly I enjoyed the details which gave it depth and a reality.I think what I love most about long fantasy novels is the closeness I feel with the characters.
Being a lover of romance novels, I am sure to be overly critical, but even other reviewers, I think, seemed to have the same feelings.Miriamele.
I didn't understand, or think reasonable, her lousy treatment of Simon for most of the series.
Now I got that off my chest.Overall, romance aside, the story was fantastic, and I still loved it.Safety: Blood, gore,violence, torture.
Instead I'll just say: George R.R. Martin has said that the Williams books were what spurred him to write A Song of Ice and Fire, and I do think that if you draw a line connecting Tolkien to Martin, Williams falls almost exactly midway between.
The books are clearly epic fantasy (and I do mean EPIC, both in what happens and in word count), but they're not just slavishly aping Lord of the Rings; they're written as more of a response to or conversation with Lord of the Rings.And short of Tolkien himself (or possibly Terry Pratchett), Williams writes the best elves I remember finding -- they're genuinely alien, often aloof and sometimes disturbing.
I don't have a problem with big books, but this one made me wish that it were smaller.
I grew tired of it as I was reading it.Secondly, the series is full of repetitions.
How many times do I have to read a description of the underground corridors of Asua???
I literally hate the word mooncalf after reading the series....Most of the women in the book (not that there were many)were annoying.
The thing that bothered me was that the characters kept reading the same thing again and again and discovering new clues and info.
It feels so good to finally be able to finish a fantasy series!
The final book was very exciting throughout almost the whole book and even though the ending was somewhat anti-climactic I still enjoyed it and I finished very satisfied.My favorite part of this series?What these books lack in action they make up for in character development.
When I finished the series it was bittersweet because I knew it was the last time I'd read about these characters.I give this book 4.5/5 stars.
At times, Tad Williams showed signs of brilliance in it but I think the book falls short of being 5 stars.
I'd actually like to discuss that ending because it's one of the most interesting ones I've ever read, and it will definitely lead to a love or hate kind of effect.I mostly find it interesting, but wholly understand why a lot of people might hate it.The series is very satisfying in many ways.
Audiobook from Penguin AudioNarrated by Andrew WincottLength: 63.25 hoursTad Williams, it seems, is very good at writing very long books to end trilogies.
This lead to many hours of aural enjoyment, listening to Andrew Wincott narrate the story, but also lead to a lot to process.
Given that the first book was published in 1988, it seems likely that many people my age (and probably some who are older) go their first taste of "modern" epic fantasy with this series.Because I don't want to spoil anything in this review, I'll simply note that this is a deep series.
Instead, I went for the e-book version that doesn't suffer any publication problems when it comes to size.By the time I was about a third of the way through the book, I was already burnt out.
Tad Williams spent a lot of time and effort in the first two books to create his world, but for this last book it seems as if he was trying to finish the story so that it would fit into one book.
It was an experience for me; I saw some more of the world of fantasy literature, but I'm quite doubtful that I will pick up another Tad Williams book in the future.
Pues más de lo mismo. Si hubiera leído esta saga de adolescente después de descubrir El Señor de los Anillos tal vez me habría encantado. Pero después de tanto tiempo, volver a leerme una trilogía llena de tópicos (protagonista humilde que se convierte en héroe, objetos mágicos que hay que encontrar/destruir, dragones que hay que matar, etc...) me ha resultado muy pesado.
Truly a marvelous end to a beautiful book and trilogy. This return to Osten Ard for me after twenty years was beautiful. I can't express how much I love this story.
Faced with an army whose rules of engagement start at "total annihilation", Williams' hand with characterizations helps keep things moving but if you've read one epic fantasy battle you aren't going to find anything new here.
Too many epics I've read don't know how to properly wrap things up and leave us feeling like the all the effort was worth it and yet not only does Williams effortlessly get us where we need to be but somehow manages to make you feel the combined weight of every page that's come before.Its astounding how much this one sticks with me.
Strangely when reading 'Shadowmarch' I found that the lore of the world richer than the characters, here I found it somewhat the reverse and could have happily had a bit more background history at certain points.
Williams as always builds an engaging world of diverse places and as a result I found the story very difficult to put down.
If you've read Williams work before then you'll be in safe ground here and it's easy to see why this was his breakthrough series.
If you're new to his work then this is an engaging and rewarding place to start.
I sort of enjoyed this series, but there are some infuriating stuff in these books.
Simon, the main character of the books, seem to grow more and more pathetic as the series wore on.
The pacing of the book is better than "Stone of Farewell", but that isn't saying much.
One of the problems I had with the series is that I really didn't care who lived or died None of the characters really made me have an emotional investment in the book, which is too bad because Williams is a pretty good writer.
Overall, I still recommend this series even though the books are far from perfect.
A fantastic ending to a fantastic series, though this book doesn't just close up the entire series, The last book in the trilogy sets up it's own themes, getting darker and hitting more impactful notes.
The character development is fantastic, as you really see Simon grow along with the many other characters.
It is definitely not a short book, but it is worth it.
A great trilogy that fully comes together in this last book, giving a sense of closures but still wishing there was more.
While there was a sense of accomplishment after finishing this massive tome, I was still saddened have it end.
One, it is now 3 am and I have just finished the book.
I couldn't put it down - which is quite a feat for a book over a thousand pages long!
I want to know how such an epic is created.
Does he know from the beginning, was he in on the many secrets from the start, can one mind really imagine it all up from the start?
I'm certain that much was developed along the way, but if even part of it was dreamed up in advance, he is an astonishing mind!
Provisional rating.This is only Part One of the Third Volume. I'll review it all ... hereTo Green Angel Tower, Part 2.(Ebook buyers beware. My niece bought me Part One, thinking she was getting the entire book.)
Review pending. Leaving it at a 5 for now. Because of feels. I can't wait to see what goes on in the new trilogy. Next up I have Heart of What Was Lost...
Got tired of all the tunnels...It's a trope, of course, in these fantasy series, that you have to go underground, and we did, over and over, throughout the books, and in this one, we had to do it again, not once but I think three or four times from multiple characters' points of view, and often through the same tunnels, with the same descriptions.
There were a lot of deeper matters that might have been explored more fully for all these pages.
I mean, I can see how this would be so in peaceful times, but right NOW, with the DARK LORD bearing down?
Another fairly slow burn of a book that actually felt like the end was kind of rushed.
I did enjoy this but to be honest I felt the end was kind of anti-climatic, it all ended a bit too easily.
I enjoyed pretty much all the POV's this time though some of them could have been cut back a bit.
It was pretty much as I thought and I'm not overly satisfied with it, like the end it felt weak.
This is a good read, nothing too ground breaking but considering the age of the series it was a lot darker and more progressive than a lot of books out at the same time.
Wow. SO much happened in 800 some pages. Some of it good some bad. I definitely found Simon far less irritating in this book, although he still had his moments. I was saddened by what happened with Maegwin and was cheering Miriamele, even when I wanted to smack her. Binabik I loved just as much as ever. This ended on a mighty cliff hanger though so I already urgently want to pick up the next book
A great finish to a series that I thought got better with each volume. The primary storylines were intriguing and enjoyable, though they were intermingled with some fluffy, meandering subplots.
Loved this series. Good finale.
