https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38240386-an-unwanted-guest
It didn't disappoint and I have to admit that this one is actually my favourite of the three and in my opinion her best yet.The intriguing plot echoes an Agatha Christie style murder mystery and is set during a freezing cold and violent ice storm that leaves the guests at an isolated hotel stranded without power.
I very much look forward to more by Lapena in the future, I like her writing style, plot lines and her ability to engage the reader and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this page turner of a book to thriller readers young and old and especially those that love a good old fashioned whodunnit murder mystery!

There is obviously a killer in their midst, but who????I thought every single page in this book was wonderful.
I have read this Author before and enjoyed her work, but this book knocks it out of the ball park!
I almost feel as if this book were an homage to Christie - that's my thought- the Author does not say.
Nevertheless, I was glued to my seat, turning the pages, and wondering what would happen next.The sheer genius of this book is that not a lot of action takes place, the characters are trapped in the Inn, no one can get to them and they cannot get out.
AN UNWANTED GUEST by SHARI LAPENA is a fast-paced, tension-filled, compelling, suspenseful, and a chilling read that immediately grabbed my attention and kept me pretty much guessing right to the very end.
Oh, and that final twist in the end…..total shocker and I absolutely loved it!SHARI LAPENA delivers an atmospheric, appealing and cleverly written read here that has an old-fashioned whodunit storyline, a huge cast of characters and an extremely eerie and haunting setting.
The setting, characters, and vintage feel to this story is what I found the most entertaining and enjoyable.
In the beautiful snowy Catskill mountains and forests, beside the Hudson River, is the location of Mitchell's Inn. The snow has brought its problems as many of the staff at the Inn have been unable to get to work, leaving owner and chef, James Harwood, with only his son, Bradley, to help look after the guests who have managed to arrive.
Wi-fi is not available, so guests are offered a secluded relaxing break, away from the frenetic pace of their everyday lives.
Candice White is a writer who has plans to write her latest book away from the drudge and energy sapping role of being a carer for her mother.
Welcome to your weekend getaway...A group of unsuspecting guests arrive to a snowy, mountain inn for a weekend away from everyone and everything.
Whatever the reason, it was going to be a pleasant getaway.But by early the next morning, things take a drastic turn.
Kind of a refreshing palate-cleanser between the darker thrillers I usually read!
Kept me in the dark and guessing right to the end!
I didn’t guess correctly!
Maybe you’ll have better luck than I did!If you’re looking for something on the lighter side then this is the perfect read for you!
Mitchell's Inn is a quiet resort, tucked away in the Catskill Mountains. Guests are checking in, but will they all check out? The hotel is three stories with a grand staircase, reminiscent of Gone with the Wind.  A forest surrounds the hotel and it has a grand lawn which is all covered in pure white snow. This should be the perfect setting for a quiet, relaxing weekend, but it  will not be .The hotel isn't full. Six rooms will be occupied out of the twelve available. Some folks seem to have can
The hotel is three stories with a grand staircase, reminiscent of Gone with the Wind.
A forest surrounds the hotel and it has a grand lawn which is all covered in pure white snow.
This should be the perfect setting for a quiet, relaxing weekend, but it 
We begin to meet some of the guests as they are checking in and learn why they wanted to book the weekend.
the wind is howling like someone is trying to get in
Everyone's secrets start coming out, and suspicions are spreading like fire.A couple of "gaspy" moments and much guessing made this one a quick read.
No judgments though - that's like an average Wednesday for me.Jokes aside, An Unwanted Guest struggled in a lot of the same ways as the last Lapena novel I read.
She writes chapters from different characters' POVs, but it’s in a bizarrely removed way, like this weirdly omniscient narrator is just kind of telling us what each person is thinking.
I’ve said it before, but I prefer it when details are interspersed throughout suspense novels rather than being dropped like a ton of bricks in the final chapters.
A large cast of characters trapped in a remote hotel during a snowstorm with no electricity or cell service?
This one has a large cast of characters - it definitely also reminded me of an Agatha Christie novel, some reviewers have compared it to And Then There Were None which I can totally se as well.
Look for the hidden clues and you might figure it out too!🕵🏻‍♀️After reading two books by this author, I can say the writing style isn’t really my jam, just a personal preference.
Advance copy provided by Penguin/Pamela Dorman Books - thank you!
Norma and I were lost in a Coulee reading An Unwanted Guest with seven of our Traveling Sisters and overall we all had very similar thoughts on this one.
The story is cleverly plotted for a fun and entertaining read.
Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin/ Pamela Dorman Books and Shari Lapena for my copy to read and review.
This is Traveling Sisters GR Reading Group Review and it can be found posted on our themed book blog Two Sisters Lost In A Coulee Reading.https://twosisterslostinacoulee.comCoulee: a term applied rather loosely to different landforms, all of which refer to a kind of valley.
The setting is a remote, old fashioned luxury hotel where guests arrive to spend a relaxing weekend in vintage lavishness.
They arrive just as a brutal winter storm hits, cutting off electricity to the hotel along with any possible contact with the outside world.
The plot unfolds as a whodunit murder mystery – is the killer among the guests or is there someone lurking in the shadows of the hotel?The characters were great!
I loved what each character brought to the mystery.
4 Stars.A good old fashioned “Whodunit” Set in the Catskill Mountains, during a bitter cold, stormy weekend when the guests at an Inn get snowed in during a power outage.
One can never tell!This is an extremely clever and well played “Whodunit.” I was fascinated by all of the characters and the crazy twists and turns.
While I guessed the ending, I was still quite impressed with how it all played out.
Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Shari Lapena for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
Published on Edelweiss and Goodreads on 9.30.18.
Two years ago, I read Shari Lapena’s debut – The Couple Next Door – and although I thought it was somewhat thrilling, it didn’t make enough sense to me to consider it a realistic mystery novel.
They each suspect one another, but the authorities can’t come due to the weather, so they’ll have to sleep next to a murderer for who knows how long.This was such an exciting story and read so well.
Having read this author’s debut, as mentioned above, I can tell you that Ms. Lapena has improved her skills.
An Unwanted Guest has a vintage feel, like watching a film noir mystery late on a cozy evening in.
Everything from the quaint, cozy lodge, to the vintage-chic murders, to the characters was perfection.
Cut off from the outside world, the guests are thankful to have such cozy accommodations.
With access to the lodge unpassable, the guests must face the fact that there are only two options: one of them is a murderer, or there is an unknown, extra guest at the lodge…ReflectionThis book feels like old classic mysteries.
It feels like a book that was always meant to be written.
3.5 Atmospheric and entertaining.
A diverse group of people arrive at a small in, just in time to find themselves snowed in, and with no electricity to boot.
But which one of them is the killer?
Or is it someone hiding in one of the empty rooms.Thematically similar to Christie's, And then there were none, it was interesting to try to figure out who was the killer.
At times this was repetitive, and some of the scenarios, motives, were a stretch, but the entertainment factor won out.
Would be a brilliant read in Winter, after a snowstorm.
A sisters read, and though we all found it entertaining, our ratings varied.ARC from Netgalley.

This was an excellent thriller, one of those where I enjoyed every minute of it.The story takes place at Mitchell’s Inn in upstate New York.
They are looking forward to spending a wonderful time in this charming and cozy inn.What the guests don’t expect is a blizzard that leaves them with no power or outside communication, no way to leave the hotel, and with a murderer among them.This novel was great, it had a classic feel to it.
The author did an excellent job with the imagery and the descriptions, I felt I was staying in with the guests during the devastating snow storm.
The characters where interesting and compelling and the story maintained a suspenseful grip.Overall, I loved this chilling murder-mystery.
I started reading An Unwanted Guest on 11/3/18 and finished it on 11/17/18 at 3:36am.
I enjoy reading each character's personal thoughts a lot.
This book is told in the third person point of view following Gwen Delaney as she maneuvers the country road to the hotel for an uninterrupted getaway with her friend.
I highly recommend everyone to read this book!Pro: fast paced, page turner, hotel, observant characters Con: not an original start to the story I rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to the author Shari Lapena, publisher Penguin, and Edelweiss for the opportunity to read and review.
As the guests arrive at the beautiful, remote Mitchell's Inn, they're looming forward to a relaxing weekend in the forest miles from anywhere.
Its a mixed bunch of people who have booked into Mitchell's Inn for the weekend.
It's miles from anywhere and set deep into the woods.
There are ten guests plus the owner, James, and his son, Bradley.
The guests arrive during a snow storm and it's not long before they are snowed in.
The guests enjoy their first evening, but by the morning, one of them is dead.
The nightmare for the surviving guests is just beginning.
An Unwanted Guest by Shari Lapena reminded me of an Agatha Christie thriller. A group of guests in a remote hotel stranded in a snowstorm. No phones, Internet or electricity and no way of getting help. The guests are being murdered one by one. Is it one of them or an intruder hiding in the hotel? I read this book in a day and it kept me guessing until the end. I would like to thank NetGalley and Random House UK, Transworld Publishers for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
4.25 StarsGwen & Riley are friends and went to the Mitchelle’s Inn so Riley can relax a little and take her mind off things!David is a criminal attorney and he went there to recharge!Lauren & Ian are friends and they went there to have a good time with each other at this remote hotel!Dana & Matthew are engaged and they went there to have fun and plan their marriage!Henry & Beverly are married, they have marital problems and they went there to save their marriage!Candice is a writer and went there to write her new novel in peace!James is Bradley’s father and they own the Mitchell’s Inn and happy to have some guess for the weekend!Sorensen is the sergeant who tries to find the killer who killed four of these travelers!Well as you see, there is so many characters and all of them has their own POV!
While the story within the pages of An Unwanted Guest isn't exactly a new one it is an addictive read.
I've seen this plot several times over the years with strangers coming together and the murders begin but it never really gets old.
No one ever thought the weekend would turn into the devastation that it did all beginning with the first body found at the stairs in what looks like an accident at first glance.
However, once getting to know everyone and the action truly begins the fear and paranoia sets in and just oozes off the pages of the story.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Despite The Couple Next Door only being an average read for me, I immediately clicked the request (which is still pending so go ahead and decline that one, NetGalley) button for Lapena’s new novel. Thanks to friends’ mediocre ratings I lowered my expectations accordingly. But I didn’t realize that An Unwanted Guest was pretty much going to be . . . . .  I am a SUCKER for retellings of And Then There Were None. Up to and including an a
And this one took place in the Catskills which instantly had me thinking of .
*In case you haven’t figured it out yet, you should probably adjust your own expectations accordingly, because this most likely wasn’t nearly as good as I thought it was.But I did think it was good and read half of it without even realizing it the other evening.
Call me a sucker for a group of strangers holed up in a hotel during a snowstorm when a superbadawful takes place .
An Unwanted Guest is an old school thriller with a very fresh, exciting vibe. I admit that I have a rocky relationship with Lapena's books. I adored A Stranger in the House but thought The Couple Next Door was only so-so. I wasn't sure what to expect from An Unwanted Guest and was thrilled by how much I liked it! "We can't choose the strangers that we meet."  Lapena has written a thriller in the style of the old school authors from the Golden Age of Mysteries. In fact, from beginning to end, An
An Unwanted Guest is an old school thriller with a very fresh, exciting vibe.
Lapena has written a thriller in the style of the old school authors from the Golden Age of Mysteries.
When the first victim is found, these secrets begin to unravel until the terror becomes so real it is palpable even to you, the reader.Lapena does a stellar job developing each of the characters.
Sadly, he has an alibi throughout.There are times when An Unwanted Guest comes dangerously close to becoming "campy" and too "old school;" but, fortunately, Lapena handles those situations beautifully and the book stays well on track racing toward a thrilling conclusion.
Lapena redeemed!!An Unwanted Guest is the second book I have read from Shari Lapena.
To say I was less than enthusiastic about the first I read, The Couple Next Door, would be to put it kindly.
Go me!I knew going in that this book would be more in my comfort zone being a 'locked room'-style mystery.
Overall, I am super glad I gave Lapena another shot and I will definitely pick up more books from her in future!Original: Alright, alright, alright.
4.0 stars — I admit I was fairly critical of Shari Lapena’s first two books, but the writing ability and fast paced writing style of the author caused me to read her latest book “An Unwanted Guest” in just 6 days.
If the author would have allowed the reader to be more of a part of the investigation and gave the police more than one clue leading them to the solution of the case, it would have been a much more satisfying ending.But, all in all Lapena showed much improvement in her plot development and suspense building and I now consider myself a full fledged fan of her books.
The ominous weather forecast results in only 10 guests and 2 staff.....but the presence of the unwanted "1" leads to an intense and deadly weekend for all.
AN UNWANTED GUEST introduces the characters, save one, during Friday evening cocktail hour and the murder-mystery is underway.
As the hours tick by, relationships are developed, secrets are exposed and accusations made leading to unsettling confrontations; and as suspicions mount, guests fear who will be the next victim.
THE COUPLE NEXT DOOR....a 5 Star read for me....is still my favorite Shari Lapena read, but certainly enjoyed trying to figure out the identity of AN UNWANTED GUEST as the storyline led me in numerous directions.
It's a real place and also a state of mind."A holiday turns to a bloody nightmare, when 10 people become trapped inside a remote inn during a snowstorm.
Then, the guests turn up dead one by one.There is no apparent connection between the guests, but all have secrets of their own they would rather stayed hidden.Who is the murderer?
Or maybe the killer is an outsider, lurking in the dark corridors of the hotel, waiting to strike…An Unwanted Guest is an enjoyable and suspenseful cozy mystery, with an unexpected ending and a kind of book you don’t want to end.
3.5 quick reading starsWhat is better than a weekend getaway, traveling to a quaint remote hotel that promises the very best in accommodations?
People are looking forward to wonderful food and beverages, beautiful settings, an aura of romance perhaps, and never thinking at all that a murderer would also be one of the residents for the weekend.This is the premise of the book An Unwanted Guest.
Will anyone survive this encounter with death?This was a very quick read, short chapters and an interesting premise kept one going.
I was trying to figure out who it was but I kept alternating within characters and I just gave up and flew through the pages to discover who it was.
I really wanted to figure out who the killer was.
While reading every character’s point of view, you get killer vibes from every character and that’s a good thing because you don’t know who you to suspect.
We get a few more pages of another secret revealed and it’s just so great!
I recommend this book to any Agatha Christie fans, it’s an enjoyable read for sure!
