https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/691002.Krapp_s_Last_Tape_and_Other_Dramatic_Pieces
The REVIEWER shakes his head, reaches into a drawer, changes his mind, reaches in again, takes out a banana, eats it.
Let's look at one of the autobiographical ones.[He clicks to a second review:I sat, looking at the stage, but more at my companion, who was leaning comfortably against me, sound asleep.
I wondered if I should adjust her dress, which was showing a generous amount of cleavage; but in the end, I only smoothed her hair...He starts shaking his head again.]REVIEWER: I shouldn't have done that.
when he spoke that last bit about the slitted eyes and the light i audibly moaned.
"She lay stretched out on the floorboards with her hands under her head and her eyes closed.
I said again I thought it was hopeless and no good going on and she agreed, without opening her eyes.
[Pause.] I asked her to look at me and after a few moments— [Pause.]— after a few moments she did, but the eyes just slits, because of the glare.
I bent over her to get them in the shadows and they opened.
Discussed with Molloy.http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
Excellent selection that makes me think I should read his complete works to add to my box of thinking tools. Seemingly more personal than his longer plays, if partly for focalisation, though my favourite quale is still the leaf on the tree in the second act of Godot, these dealing more with human limits and deterioration. Don't forget that the absurd is itself absurd, or whatever, and that it is itself struable.
December of Drama 2015, day tenI'm reading a play every day (have I established that?) and I selected them in advance, so I didn't read the radio plays Embers or All Fall Down which are included in this volume.
When it comes to Krapp's Last Tape, I can understand and even agree with those reviewers who call it brilliant, genius, a masterpiece, etc.
And the blurb on the back: 'shattering drama,' really?
It's a bitter artistic statement, sure, but far from 'shattering.' I would love to see it staged, however-- more so than any of the other plays I've read so far, except for Thom Pain.
خمس مسرحيات تجريبية ( شريط تسجيل كراب الأخير 1958 ، أسكش اذاعي رقم 1961 1 كلمات و موسيقى 1961 ، ماذا
this was pretty pointless. sounds like a long nonsensical blabber about pretty much nothing. i found absolutely no meaning in the whole narration, except that maybe krapp has a deadly addiction to bananas.
Krapp's Last Tape--more focused and emotionally coherent than many of Beckett's other works--builds to a conclusion that is profoundly moving. If you have an extra hour or so, search for a performance of KLT on YouTube.
Going to see John Hurt perform this tonight at the Shakespeare Theater! Super excited!http://www.washingtonpost.com/lifesty...
تسجيل إذاعي إنتاج: إذاعة البرنامج الثاني من القاهرةhttps://archive.org/details/P2-dra-Kr...أحلى بكتير مسرحية بالإنجليزيhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYDGlC...
It's depressing. Great, but depressing.It's short, so read it through a couple of times. After, go to YouTube and watch Patrick Magee's performance of this. It too is superb. It was actually written for him, so it's only right that you watch it.
As great as I think Beckett's other work is, these were appearantly his "meh-plays". I liked "All that fall", but that was all...
Bananas....
It's a dead world, or maybe like the girl it wasn't even born!It also has a great characterization along with deep metaphorical events and dialogues.
Reader's mind is trying to put all this together and understand what all this is about, then suddenly a shocking end...Krapp's Last Tape...Krapp's life is a crap!
at the end he hates himself; let say his old-self.
A person who seeks something out of darkness(life), then come to light; where he could realize it's all a void...I found Act Without Words I & II very deep, like them very much.
My hometown, Park Ridge, had had a number of youth centers, but all had closed when I dropped out of Grinnell for the 1971-72 school year.Two of us put our mind to the matter one night at my house and came up with the idea of starting a process which might result in the creation of a new alternative for our peers, a youth center we'd own and operate ourselves, on our terms.The trick was to get the momentum to accomplish this end.
Compartmentalized into five different plays, the book seems to share an overall theme or perhaps it is my mind trying to find some sort of coherence from what is, for the most part, something quite nonsensical.
I love that he utilizes the common place as a carriage for such whimsical & simultaneously irking statements from characters who seem almost as inconsequential as the places where these events take place.
Time a crafty instrument by which death draws closer plays a key role as well.
It is a masterful experiment of time, death, life, language, comedy & tragedy converging & confronting one another.
This volume contains five dramatic pieces by Beckett: Krapp's Last Tape, All That Fall, Embers, Act Without Words I, and Act Without Words II.
A few comments below about each.Krapp's Last Tape: Fascinating and complex meditation on the power of memory.
The replaying of the tape becomes a metaphor for what we do with our memories.
Mrs. Rooney is a great character - horribly self absorbed and all too familiar.Embers: The least compelling and most impenetrable piece in this collection.
Still interesting to read, though.Act Without Words I: Existential burlesque.
Would love to see this piece performed someday.Act Without Words II: Not sure I completely grasped this one in a single reading.
I don’t have this particular volume so I cant say how the different plays works together but I have both read and seen Krapps last tape many times.A short, terse, very intense piece.
We meet the old recluse Krapp a late night in the future (as Beckett puts it in the stage directions).
Here he listens to tapes recorded by himself where he comments his life situation.
We admitted to the fragmentary glimpses of the recordings and Beckett's nearest hypnotic language sense of glow in the dark scene and sucks us deeper into the lonely man on stage.
Towards the end comments Krapp things one last time.
The star rating given reflects my opinion within ‘the official goodreads rating system’.1 star: Didn’t Like it2 stars: It’s Okay3 stars: Liked it4 stars: Really Liked it5 stars: It Was AmazingI don’t really give a rat-fuck that there are some who think I ‘owe’ an explanation for my opinion.
I do this for me, on my books, in my library and I don’t ‘owe’ any special snowflakes a thing.
Fuck off if you don’t like it and stop reading my shit.Particularly given the ‘modifications’ to reader’s personal content going on (and outright censorship), unless particularly motivated I will not comment in detail.
I enjoyed the two mediums in the play: the recorder and the actor.
I also enjoyed the almost ridiculous banana riff int he middle.
How can Beckett handle such heavy material and a certain vaudeville element at the same time?
I don't know how, but i do love that aspect of him.I recently attended a lecture by John Calder, a Beckett scholar among other things, and found his insights about Beckett's view of God interesting as well.
He mentioned Beckett's Manichean approach to things, and we see that present in the black and white of this play (and so many others).
Interesting stuff.
I did not see the plays, I read this and did my imagination's best.
I just stuggled to 'like' the content, Beckett seems to write only of death and not about life.
It just read off as "life sucks, there's nothing we can do, ha!" x100, which may be the point/intention here but it just doesn't seem to go anywhere or offer any progression or variety.
Maybe this was more original when it was written, I am not seeing something or they just are far more enjoyable to watch.
To be honest, I liked Act without words part II maybe a bit more than Krapp's Last Tape, which probably says something.
Ce volume comprend deux petites pièces, qui, comme souvent chez Beckett, me laissent une impression d'étrangeté et de léger malaise. "La dernière bande" est un monologue avec soi-même, ou plus exactement un dialogue entre un personnage et des bandes enregistrées par lui des années auparavant. "Cendres" est une sorte de jeu entre un homme et des fantômes du passé. Deux pièce, donc, sur la mémoire et le passage du temps. Mais le plus fascinant dans ces textes, ce sont les didascalies et indications scéniques, toujours très précises, qui donnent une impression de futilité et de décrépitude.
Ok, so I totally understand why Beckett is such an important playwriter, and I quite enjoyed a few of his shorter plays!
I love his new trail of thinking, and the play Breath, which actually is a breath and lasts for 36 seconds show how amazing Beckett was.I can't give it more than three stars, because it's all a little too hard and heavy for me to read, since english is my second language, but all in all I quite enjoyed it, and I think everyone that studies literature should read some Beckett in their lives!
I was just not into this text. The particularities of Krapp were cute at the start, but all the contemplation of death, regrets and the end of one's own lifespan, just made me roll my eyes. A universal message perhaps, but I couldn't wait to finish it and move to something more interesting and playful.
YouTube is your friend -- all these are available in more or less faithful filmed/animated version, some the originals that Beckett wrote these for. Genius of the human condition. All That Fall might be his best but Krapp's hardly shit.
"Krapp's Last Tape" and "Act Without Words 1" are both gripping pieces. The other three pieces I was not particularly impressed with. I've been reading a lot of Beckett recently, and "Eleutheria" and "Endgame" are still my favorite Beckett plays.
I enjoyed reading this play. I watched the John Hurt version on YouTube. Hurt is amazing in it.If you want to see Beckett done well you should watch it.Krapps Last Tape
Definitely not a play for you if you're not a fan of absurdism. It's the sort of writing that's meant to be deconstructed, and isn't the greatest thing in the world, but is rich with so many themes to parse out and symbols and offers a wealth of discussion.
most gut-wrenching piece of literature ever written
A great start for those looking to explore the existential self-exploration of Beckett. KLT and the silent plays included demonstrate his skill in both written word and stage-as-expression.
Extremely powerful when you analyse the character then vs now. Not a fan of the price compared to a number of pages this book has but good job I've read it.
Interesting group of plays/dramatic pieces/mimery. Waiting for Godot was better than this collection, but still interesting, Beckett definitely has an interesting way of presenting things.
Premier livre de l'année 2016. Quelle merveille.
Incredible!
After reading 'Endgame', I really shouldn't have expected the rest of Samuel Beckett's work to make sense. But it is the bizarrely mundane stories that he manages to pull of so well, and continues to intrigue me - for example, 'Breath', a play where the stage is covered in litter, and somebody sighs. That's it. Seriously. As I said bizarrely mundane, but strangely effective.
Krapp's Last Tape is by far my favorite of the pieces presented here; it is as dark and harrowing as the best of Beckett's work. The other pieces are worthy of a read, as well.
Love love love Krapp's Last Tape, Rough for Theatre, Play and Not I. Quite like Ohio Impromptu. The rest are, at best, alright, and at worst thoroughly irritating.
Although this edition included all of Beckett's short plays I only managed to read Krapp's Last Tape - a play I found to be incredibly moving and original.
Krapp's Last Tape is by far my favorite of the Beckett works I've seen on stage. I've also read it, but ordered this (cheaply, used) to get other short plays.
Beckett is one of those authors who wrote purely to torture the students of the future. Why do you not make sense, man?!
One of Beckett's best. A short work about memory and technology. Utterly devastating.
This was recommended to me and then the recommendation was withdrawn. Fitting.
Krapp's Last Tape, and Other Dramatic Pieces by Samuel Beckett (1960)
Remind me to go back and reread more of Samuel Beckett's work.
Theatre of the Absurd... absurdly awesome!
