https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350870.A_Walk_on_the_Wild_Side
O Sr. Algren ataca com ambas as mãos, cerca-nos e mata-nos se não formos incrivelmente cuidadosos."Ernest HemingwayNão me matou mas deixou-me com cicatrizes...Comprei este livro por duas razões:1.
Heróis, de uma saga magnífica, que me fizeram chorar por eles e rir com eles.Não me é fácil escrever mais sobre este livro sem me arriscar a ser inconveniente, ou desagradável, ao falar de crises económicas, de pobreza, de sofrimento, de Vidas Perdidas...Recomendo: 1.
A quem gosta de um livro a sério: com uma prosa perfeita, por vezes quase poesia (muitas vezes poesia, porque a música está sempre presente);2.
A quem não se importe de ler um livro que não está na "moda".
Walk on the Wild Side, Lou Reed:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4wNkn..."Mr. Algren, boy, you are good."-- Ernest HemingwayWalk on the Wild Side is set in Perdido Street in the old French Quarter of depression-era New Orleans.
Walk on the Wild Side is the story of Dove Linkhorn, a wild and naïve and cocky 16-year-old from a small Texas town who finds his way to New Orleans.
I listened to it on audiotape, which made the rich language come alive.Algren summed his book up best: "The book asks why lost people sometimes develop into greater human beings than those who have never been lost in their whole lives.
35)Já em Nova Orleães, Dove Linkhorn acaba “perdido” em Perdido Street, onde mulheres e homens vivem vidas inquietas, ”Vidas Perdidas”, escondendo a solidão com o consumo desenfreado de bebidas alcoólicas e de drogas, pobres e famintos que tentam desesperadamente sobreviver; com prostitutas e chulos, numa exploração sórdida de mulheres, um mundo marginal formado por alianças provisórias, num dos períodos mais conturbados da história dos Estados Unidos da América, os anos 30, o período da Grande Depressão, onde a decadência e a amargura dominam, mas onde acaba por existir alguma réstia de esperança e de amor.
The book (and Algren) seem to have a longer half-life in down-and-out, wounded, sentimental rock music than in literature departments and the general literary fiction circle, which would seem odd but for the book's enduring underdog sensibility, a perfect match for the likes of The Hold Steady's Craig Finn, among others, whose lyrical, complex tales of "lost people" bring Algren sharply to mind.
WOTWS is surely one of the great well springs from which tales of the American underbelly, druggy lit, road lit and even gonzo and many aspects of post modern writing would flow from.
Where some of the other more famous touchstones of Beat and Post Modern lit show some aging and wear and tear in the overall quality and depth of the work now that the explosion and fan fare of their historical literary moment is beginning to settle, Algren's great work remains a knock out and shamefully under-celebrated.
This is rich, colorful, underground, funky, twisted stuff and it's a beautiful blast to get inside of.
And, as I say, I didn't think that quality consistent throughout the novel, which was, I thought, a bit too long.Algren wrote a novel about people scraping by in the hardscrabble underbelly of Perdido Street in New Orleans in the early years of the Great Depression.
Algren himself said, "The book asks why lost people sometimes develop into greater human beings than those who have never been lost in their whole lives." His answer is the narrative of Dove Linkhorn's young manhood.
Here, though, God is Algren, and the final truth is that he had a deep love for his characters.
HEADLINE: Lost American classic rediscovered by me!How in the world did this American classic come to fall through the cracks?
From my point of view it is a novel about the depression that is an amalgam of Grapes of Wrath and Confederacy of Dunces.
It is Grapes of Wrath with a profound sense of black humor.
Perhaps I wax too rhapsodic there, but I do not think so.For what it is worth and if you are interested in pursuing this further you can find a spirited and enthusiastic discussion of the book here.
Be forewarned about that discussion though.
Nelson Algren's novel relates the adventures of Dove Linkhorn, an illiterate young man who leaves poverty and a failed love affair behind him to wander the countryside.
He has many adventures along the way until he settles for a time in New Orleans, where he will experience happiness and great tragedy.Linkhorn is an appealing character, whose desire to better himself makes him easy to sympathize with.
The real star of this novel, however, is Algren's prose.
Hemingway himself felt that Algren was one of the best writers in America, although their styles couldn't be more different.
His characters are extreme types living on the fringe of society, but Algren makes them come alive.
Though the writing is very impressive - descriptive, ironic, poetic, I couldn't get into the story because none of the characters is developed enough for me to care much about them. It felt long and repetitious. Many of the characters seemed like caricatures rather than real people. Dove Linkhorn, the main character, was some what sympathetic though not entirely, as he often contributed to his own situation.
Unbelievable! Pimps, prostitutes, alcoholics, thieves, drug addicts, drifters, abortionists, scam artists, barflies. . . every down-and-out person you're ever likely to meet is in here. Algren wrote about the kinds people and places that he knew best and his work reads like dark poetry. An amazing command of the English language!
I put this one off for a long time, knowing it was Algren's most popular, but then I kept encountering references to it involving Hunter Thompson. It is clearly the most outstanding of the 4-5 Algren books I've read. A brilliant feat of modernism, like a cross between Grapes of Wrath and Naked Lunch.
I can't remember the last time I read something so beautifully written. Algren had an ear for the poetry of regional al speech and the wisdom of the uneducated.the events of the story may depict an ugly part of society but the language is just So Beautiful. I couldn't put it down.
"And the coloured girls sayDoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doodoo"
If you like your characters damaged and your prose poetic, this is the book for you. No author does it better.
"Because I want YOU to be good to me," she told him so frankly that he felt he must be doing her a favor and cleaned up every crumb.In part the book is about the education or maturation of Dove, but it's a tough path and he's on his own, being essentially a runaway from his dead end life with his preacher widower father and his drunken brother.The novel itself falters a bit, seemed to get sidetracked with some other characters that were not nearly as interesting, but there are plenty of scenes that continue to make it worthwhile - like a scene depicting their hard scrabble life as a huge pile of turtles on a butcher’s block, scrambling over each other in a bloody slipping mess - and some really nice writing, like the two unconnected quotes that I'll close with...While the moon that could never wane looked on, on brandy, silver comb and wine...
A Walk on the Wild Side by Nelson Algren is a crazy rollick through New Orleans in 1930-'31, in that era.
He gets into her undies one morning, leaves her in bed, goes downstairs to the café she owns, and emboldened by his success with Terasina in bed, he figures she can't do without him, and opens her cash register.
Terasina comes tearing downstairs and tosses old Dove out her joint on his head.
He is saved by an octoroon beauty, Hallie, who goes into hiding with Dove, and among other things teaches him to read.
Forgot how friggin' GREAT Algren was.
Great book. I hear of the current events of these fascinating cities and I’m happy I picked this one about Nola so I know some good history.
A story about the old French Quarter and New Orleans of the 1930s.
But when it works, when it flows naturally, his language of pimps, prostitutes, and Prohibition (one tries anyway), which relates the story of Dove Linkhorn, a naïve 16-year-old from a tiny Texas town who finds his way to New Orleans, is unlike any other before or since.And: Lou Reed has said his "Walk on the Wild Side" was inspired by Algren's novel.
Algren should be read.
Dove is gifted with an unrealistic sexual capacity and a natural talent for math, yet his identity remains incomplete based on his illiteracy.What's really very interesting about this novel is the thematic death drive return to the site of trauma.
Dove rapes his first love, thus symbolically cutting himself off from the world she represents (i.e., the attempt to complete his identity through reading).
Only when he is able to return to his first love, having learned to read and then been blinded in a bar fight, is there hope for Dove's redemption.
Reading Nelson Algren for the first time, about 4 years ago, made me want to quit trying to write because the man perfected it. Talk about combining prose and poetry. And the characters he creates are unbelieveable. But I kept going understanding that I'd always be inferior, and that's ok, to be inerior to Nelson Algren, it's more than just ok.
If you want to read a book about down and out people who treat each other poorly, this may be the book for you. It's only redeeming quality is the author's beautiful use of language. Otherwise, it was too unrelentingly negative for me.
Excellent writing but unremittingly grim!
I didn't quite realise how tricky a read it was going to be to follow the disjointed story with the narrative style jumping around, loosely following the main character, Dove, waving and rolling in a gutter-style lyricism.
I also read it in different time-zones and different settings so I would almost associated with a series of short-stories rather than a fully-fleshed out narrative.
Again, maybe that was the whole point...to be lost like the characters lost to the world around them and to themselves.
The good: Algren's writing itself.
They all seemed despicable to me- sleazy, dishonest grifters with no loyalty to anyone or anything other than the next quick buck or their next fix- and I really didn't care what happened to them one way or another, so it made it kind of a trudge to get through the book.
Because of the writing, I will try other Algren books- Never Come Morning, perhaps, will be next- but unless the characters are less despicable than they are in this book, I won't get far.
“Life is hard by the yard, son.
But you don’t have to do it by the yard.
By the inch it’s a cinch.”I’d stretch to four and a half.
While it’s so rooted in anachronistic dialects of Depression era American South that it becomes occasionally incomprehensible, it’s so beautifully written that you can just fall into it.
The speech and slang becomes it’s chief charm and it delves deeper into a people than Steinbeck’s wrathful grapes.
Not focused on a struggling family but a struggling everybody.
It’s poetic prose if such a thing can indeed exist, if not then it’s as close as it gets.
Christ, the 20s and 30s in the US was a grim old time.
This is a snapshot of the grifters, prostitutes and pimps riding the rails trying to make enough to live off.
Despite the filth and the dishonesty, there's a real theme of honour amongst thieves running throughout, with Algren pointing out on several occasions that it's the people with nothing who are the most likely to help you.
There's humour in the bizarre nature of the scams and even some tender moments, if short-lived.
In tone it's far more optimistic than the unrelenting grimness of his other classic, The Man with the Golden Arm.
One extra 🌟 for word-craft. This is Algren's book about the seamy side of, mainly, Perdido St in New Orleans. If you are misanthropic, algren's book feels like having salt rubbed into a wound. Yes, I know that so-called"upright citizens" and the rich are even seamier, but I don't like to have my nose rubbed into how God-awful an experiment is "the human."
A classic from the 1950s about Dove Linkhorn who is unable to read having not gone to school. The book tells of his misadventures as he tries to navigate the Depression with time spent selling door to door, in brothels and in jail.
Dont know how i feel about this one...............an odd and quirky little read for sure. Not convinced it is my cup of tea. the writing seems at best dated..................
