https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402093.Sh_gun
So sorry, I am not worthy of the honor of reviewing this novel.
If however, my Lord insists it, then I shall endeavor to offer up some humble thoughts regarding its mighty, even epic narrative.
This humble vassal speaks more to the text and how Japanese is interwoven with the barbarian words in so many places.
And then how barbarian words come even to replace Japanese!
If you'll excuse this vassal's petulant tongue, Sire, it's enough to make one fart dust, so sorry.
But these tedious affectations do blend in after a while, neh?
As a picture of Japanese history it suffers from what another reviewer hilariously called (I paraphrase, here) our "round-eyed western mythologized POV."Which, okay—it was written in the 70's, after all.But as a story? OMFG what a fucking story.I fell into this book as a teenager and didn't come back out until I'd read 600,000 words and had a conversational grasp of transliterated Japanese.Three days. Three days of bliss.I dare you to read this and not—at the earliest opportunity—call someone a gaijin in pitying tones.*bows stiffly*
Strangely, I'd say that I have no real interest in Japan despite having read Memoirs of a Geisha and Tales of the Otori both which are set in Japan or Japanese based.
I thought it was a beautifully written book, though at the beginning I thought perhaps the necessary explanations of Japanese things to be a bit heavy handed at times.
It is a story that exists not within the pages but somewhere in that world between book and soul.
Edited to Say: Whenever I listen to the soundtracks of Memoirs of a Geisha or The Last Samurai I think of Shogun now, as I read it to that music.
Japanese people tell me that it's all nonsense: samurai were not in fact ready to commit seppuku at the slightest provocation. They had a strong sense of honor, but were also interested in staying alive. Well, fancy that. Though I'm embarrassed to admit that I believed it when I read the book. I wish a Japanese author would return the compliment, and write a similarly bogus historical blockbuster about a Japanese hero visiting Europe during the late 16th century and helping Queen Elizabeth I sort out the Spanish Armada, or whatever. If it already exists, someone needs to translate it!
The interest in Asia, its people and culture continued with 'Tai-Pan, a tale of Canton and Hong Kong in mid-19th century and the founding of an Anglo-Chinese trading company, Struan's.
'Noble House', the fourth novel in the Asian Saga published in 1981, continued the story of Struan's the Hong Kong trading company, as the winds of change blew through the Far East.
His last novel 'Gai-Jin', is set in Japan in 1862, when the-Tai Pan of the Noble House seeks to profit from the decline of the Shogunate.
That being said, this is a remarkable work -- it is perhaps the most sweeping of Clavell's epics, in that it covers greater distance and time than his other books do.
And, despite the fact that the cultural anthropology isn't seamlessly welded to the plot, it is certainly always engaging -- and one of the most rewarding parts about reading the book.It is also remarkable what Clavell the person has done with this work.
Having learned to hate the Japanese at Changi (a WWII POW camp in Malaysia), Clavell set out at the end of the war to try and understand them, and to uncover the cultural roots that would birth the place that gave him rebirth.
The main problem was that there wasn't a single character I really liked, and god, I hate Blackthorne from the bottom of my very soul.
I also suspect my main problem with the book was its length - the things I found annoying maybe wouldn't have been as annoying if there had only been 500 pages of them.
(And the latter is written from a single POV, which is much more interesting, in my opinion.
He goes apeshit at that suggestion, and then one of the samurai in the room suggests Mariko ask him whether he'd prefer a duck or a sheep.
This book can be described with only one word - amazing.
The first page sucks you in and keep you in the edge till the end.
I had one more page till the end and I had no idea what will happen, the end was something I didn't expect but in the same time perfect.
I felt myself smiling in places where in other books I would be crying.
This will be a book I will be rereading many many times and I know I will love it more with every rereading and I will be learning something new.
I recommend this book to everyone.
It is in this heady brew of intrigue and power politics that the story unfolds.This book is populated by a wide range of characters, from John Blackthorne, an English (ship) pilot marooned in Japan who is based on a historical figure William Adams (that Wikipedia article will spoil the conclusion of the book for you, FYI), Toranaga, a Japanese Daimyo engaged in a sort of Cold War with other Regents, Mariko, a wife of one of Toranaga's vassals and fluent in several European languages, Jesuits, samurai (friendly and otherwise), consorts, and Portuguese traders to name but a few.
This is a fun and fascinating read, not only on its own merits, but also as part of what I like to call the 'male romance' genre.
This, along with other manly titles like 'From Here to Eternity', make me giggle because they so closely parallel women's romance novels in the point-by-point adherence to a checklist of what their reader desires.
Along the way, he is desired by every woman and falls in love with one of them(always a perfect beauty with the proper mix of smarts, sass, and submission).
"Until you, I never truly knew what love was, Anjin-San."
Yet I can't help noticing (some) other reviewers (here and on Amazon) critiques of Clavell's incorrect use of Japanese words, expressions etc.The fictionalizing of historical personae, incorrect descriptions of various martial arts and just the overall depiction of old Japan.
Like it or not, Clavell wasn't writing for a Japanese audience.
His book was for readers that knew practically nothing about pre-Tokugawa Japan.I have to say this is one reason why he has his characters using Judo and other modern martial arts.
Never forget that this is a work of fiction first and foremost.Does Clavell engage in some idolization of Japanese culture?
I love how this boatload of Dutch sailors is coming to Japan and they seem so familiar and they come to the island of Japan and they seem to have strange customs.
They begin to seem very normal and they begin to make sense and Anjin-san changes with the book and learns their culture.
I loved the sweeping nature of this book and being brought into this ancient culture.
It is an older type book and the first 200 pages you are thrown tons of characters fast and quick.
I loved this book and you might too.
Blackthorne, the English captain and also the main character, will face death, humiliation, prison and betrayal countless times, but his intelligence and knowledge help him become one of daimyo Toranaga’s most precious allies and, thanks to this, he gains access to more wealth and power than he could ever have known in Europe.The plot of the novel is full of twists and turns and written in short sentences that have great impact on the reader’s mind, adding to the tempo and suspense of the story.
Here's a book about Japan written 40 years ago by a white guy, and that means we get to play our favorite game: Is!
The only really bad part is that all the Japanese ladies are like obsessed with how huge white guys' dicks are, sigh.
It's probably like the Game of Thrones books but I've only seen the show.
Real scholarly people say that James Clavell gets the basic history of this crucial turning point in Japanese history correct.Look, it's a little exaggerated.
But it turns out that this was the one period in all of history when, yes, ninjas were really a thing.
Glorious wonderful strong white male with a canonically-mentioned giant dick (so very crucial to all these stories) sails to feudal Japan, falls in love with beautiful wonderful Japanese lady who coincidentally happens to be a) the only person able to speak his language, b) the most desirable woman in all of Japan, and c) married to a terrible awful abusive Japanese warlord husband.
White dude spends entire time worried about himself and how much he wants his ship back, despite the fact that he well knows that a) terrible awful abusive Japanese warlord husband, and b) Japanese law stating that if the lady is caught in adultery, she will be put to death.
There are some books that are tied with your childhood and when you grow up you will feel choked with emotion when you read them again.When this book was firstly published in English, I was just born.When the TV series was firstly shown on US TV, I was five years old.A few years later, it was introduced in Greek TV.
I wanted to feel again how it was when I was a child and everybody was running on the street in order not to miss the beginning of the episode.
Also a well done movie, but if you saw that first do NOT let it stop you from reading the book.
I don't know anything about the Japanese culture, but I hope he didn't get much wrong, because he makes me feel like I do.
There is plenty of action, romance & suspense.I was totally sucked into the culture, the restrictions of the society & their ideas of honor, just as our hero was.
From my perspective as a middle class American, the culture is horrifyingly restrictive.
Still it was a great read.
If you liked this, you'll love Tai-Pan.
Clavell's depiction of Japan was so convincing and real that I felt like I was there.
His characters were some that I felt like I knew, or was getting to know.
Speaking of which, I have to mention that I feel like I know a million times more about feudal Japan after reading this book than I did before.
He's smart, and not just book smart, which in itself was impressive, as most people couldn't read, but street smart in that he is able to read a situation and reply to it accordingly, and very lucky on top of all that.
We all know I've been complaining about this book for the past six months, so there's no other rating for me to give than a solid, satisfying one star.
Shogun is a sweeping novel, ridiculously ambitious, covering virtually everything you'd ever want to know about Japan: the history, the culture, and Europe's desire to trade with it, introduce Christianity to it, colonize it, all that.
It's as though Clavell didn't want to make any decisions, and instead, did a literal "story dump," point by point, thought by thought.
And for once, I am happily walking past its flaws for the sake of the overall narrative quality.
I'm not knowledgeable about Japanese history to pen a critique of whatever historical blunders the author might've incurred into, so my assessment of this book is based on stylistic and narrative factors, and going by that I'd say that the book's strengths are in characterisation (very memorable characters) and plot structure (it's fast-paced for the most part and so twisty as to keep the reader interested till the end).
This is  The OneMy favourite book of all time.
The one that transported me far away and long ago.
The one that made our world cease to exist.
The one that I read every spare minute of every day, even in elevators; a half page now and then.
And when I was within 300 pages of the end, I stayed up all night and the morning to finish.I became Anjin-san in the magical world of feudal Japan.Ten years later in 1985 I read it again.
Magic, power, intrigue, JAPAN.
The ONE book by Clavell you MUST READ
Pleased to find memory of goldfish so remembered almost nothing from previous read and that had seriously done an injustice with previous rating,The writing isnt always frist class but at the same time Clavell perfectly encaptures the delicacies of the Samurai code of honour and Japanese life at that time.
Its gruesome and bloody and coarse but the plots and counter plots and intrigues keep you on the edge of your reading chair the whole way through.
And you change with Anjin-san as you get to know the Japanese better and your standpoint on who are the more barbaric changes the more you read on.
I don't want to spoil things but suffice it to say his initial days in Japan are pretty horrible and violent, almost like Clavell's daring the reader to make snap judgments and write the Japanese off as sadistic, uncaring, and murderous just as Blackthorne and his crew do.Eventually though, the true beauty of contemporaneous Japanese culture and geography really starts to bloom and flower in the reader's mind.
Suffice it to say this is the closest you're gonna get to actually being in someone like Blackthorne's place, which is an unforgettable experience.This novel also boasts someone who is already one of my favorite characters in literature, the genius daimyo Toranaga.
However, the repetitive use of phrases — which, again, probably accurately reflect dialogue in that culture — really wore me down by books end.
Women don't't serve in the military, are often little more than property in this story, and yet they plot and scheme and divide just like the men who wage war.Finally, I really enjoyed his ability to paint a truly alien culture, and show the difficulty of not only a language barrier, but entirely different ways of thinking.
I was drawn to know more about the unpredictable protagonist—Blackthorn—as well as other thoughtful characters, and ended up learning a lot about 17th Century Japan and gained some nuances and insights into ancient Japanese culture.The first several hundred pages of this behemoth are great.
The book just ends.
Suddenly, mid-story, there are only a dozen pages left.
Then suddenly, after 1152 pages (400 or so which should have been left on the editing room floor, in my opinion) the novel just ends.
The reader is left with two small paragraphs in italics to explain what actually happens in the story.
5-star rating system does no justice to "Shogun" - give it SEVEN stars. Brilliant historical novel surrounding the events of Ieaysu's victory/consolidation of warlords in Japan ca. 1600. Mostly told through the eyes of an English navigator - who gradually becomes Japanese as the story unfolds. This story has everything - chivalry, honor, romance, ambition, war, violence, expert characterization, compelling plot, keen conception of Japanese Culture.
4  stars. The first 90% is fascinating. The last 5% not well done - just a summary. The ending was sad.Historical fiction based on actual leaders in 1600 Japan. I loved the thinking, planning, and strategising within the heads of many different characters. For example Yabu is alone with an injured man and thinks I could easily kill him and no one would know. Am I better off if he’s dead or alive? How will I benefit? If I do this then..., if I do that then ...When John first sees a fortress his t
However, the first part of the book and the characters were so fascinating that it’s still one of the best books I’ve read and worthy of 5 stars.AMAZON REVIEWER Patrick Shepherd “hypepat” writes a beautiful description of what the book is about.
Each grows and changes as events unfold, most especially Blackthorne himself, growing from a totally self-centered 'barbarian' of unclean habits to a person who can appreciate the beauty, intelligence, and moral rectitude of others, who comes to care deeply for those around him, who comes to understand a philosophy of life totally different from that of his own culture.”NARRATOR - David Case:For the first hour or so I didn’t like him - his dry British voice.
And it gave me even more pleasure to have known that the story of Anjin-san and Toranaga is inspired by true facts and the characters are based on real people.
Shogun made me laugh, made me respectful, made me sad but in a way that I found myself accepting that karma is karma, made me (even more) aware of the many ways in which Christian priests and religion have endangered the humanity and led to unnecessary men slaughter in the name of God. Definitely one of my favourite books of all time, which also gave me a favourite character of all time.
UPDATE: This book is available for $1.99 at Amazon right now. If you have not read it, it will be the biggest bargain of your life.*********************Without a doubt, if I were listing the ten books not to miss, this would make the list. It is gripping start to finish and has everything needed to make a GREAT read.
I read this book a long time ago.....I was in high school,and I ate it up.
It was one of the few times that I remember he and I having major conversations about Japan,and the war.
I stood by the book rack,and snatched it off the shelf without even looking at it, because it's a novel about Japan!
I understood , a bit better after reading it, how the Japanese couldn't lose face , even at the time of the war due to their ideals, culture,and way of life.A sign of a good book , to me, is remembering fondly how awesome it was so many years later.
