https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10129880-the-colour-out-of-space
In some ways, if you think about it, The Colour Out of Space could be H.P. Lovecraft’s scariest stor
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep woods that no axe has ever cut.  Thus, with the finest opening sentence in the Lovecraft canon, the “The Color Out of Space” begins. This story, the last Lovecraft wrote during the remarkable ten-month spurt of creativity that spanned the years 1926 and ‘27, is a culmination of sorts. During this period, H.P. had refined the art of horrific description, dispensing with the unnecessary adjectives and overwrought prose which ofte
No forbidden books, no repulsive idols, no sinister dark men with deevolutionary faces; no, this time he would terrify through something simple and pervasive, through the use of color alone.Lovecraft who wanted to write an outer space story but was determined to avoid the “bug-eyed monster” cliché.
Yes, color, if it were uncanny, could surely terrify.The story itself is simple: one night, a meteor lands on Nahum Gardner’s farm, and things begin to change.
A tale that only H.P. Lovecraft could tell!  CHROMATIC HORROR One of the most popular tales by H.P. Lovecraft out of his famous The Call of Cthulhu.An investigator is researching about an incident in Arkham, Mass., named “The Blasted Heath” but......that none in the town is willing to talk about in specifics,......until he is able to make contact with a farmer living way out of the town, along with his family.The investigator is told about the fall of a meteorite several years ago......who prod

Dies war meine erste Begegnung mit H.P.L. Nach dem ganz guten Anfang störte mich, dass die Story einfach so runtererzählt wurde.
Dazu dann noch dieser antiquierte Schreibstil, bei dem das Unbeschreibliche nicht in Worte gefasst wurde.
Letztlich hat mich die Geschichte dann aber doch gebannt, wenn schon nicht gegruselt oder gar schockiert.
Gegen Ende entwickelte die Geschichte für mich mehr Atmosphäre.
Ich denke, dass er mit so einer Geschichte schon Neuland betreten hat.
Das ist schon recht abgedreht.
Aber doch auf eine Art gut, die sich nicht beschreiben lässt (um es im Stil des Autors zu sagen).
Da bastante mal rollo para solo tener 30 páginas :O
Bereits mehrfach habe ich versucht mich mit den Geschichten von Lovecraft anzufreunden, aber jedes Mal wurden meine Erwartungen milde gesagt enttäuscht. The Colour Out of Space ist da leider keine Ausnahme.
Es wird die letzte gewesen sein.Wie kann jemand, der sich über das Schreiben anderer Horror-Autoren so dermaßen herablassend geäußert hat, es wagen, selbst so schlecht zu schreiben?
Ich weiß nicht, wie oft ich in dieser Geschichte, das Wort „unbeschreiblich“ lesen musste, was Lovecraft nutzt, um dann wirklich nichts zu beschreiben.
Sogar der Tod einer Figur wird mit „nicht in Worte zu fassen“ abgetan.Wenn dann mal Adjektive zur Beschreibung eingesetzt werden, sind sie abgedroschen, zu dick aufgetragen.Wie konnte es passieren, dass Lovecraft vielen als bester Horror-Autor des 20.
I can see why this is Lovecraft's favorite. The way he described the decay of the land and the slow shift to madness was so well written!
HOST: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to a new episode of  What were you thinking?  Our guest tonite is the late horror writer Howard Phillips Lovecraft, better known to most of us as (lowers voice) the Necormaniac. Please welcome with a big round of applause: H– P– (shouts) Lovecraft!(indiscernible clapping from the audience, slight coughing, an indescribable form of silence as the writer enters the stage and sits down beside the host)HOST: Welcome Mr. Lovecraft and thanks so muc
Please welcome with a big round of applause: H– P– (shouts) Lovecraft!(indiscernible clapping from the audience, slight coughing, an indescribable form of silence as the writer enters the stage and sits down beside the host)HOST: Welcome Mr. Lovecraft and thanks so much for being here with us tonight.
You mean the colour of space is just grey?HPL: Yes. Grey.
But overall grey.HOST: Yes. yes.HPL: A green-bluish brown-red-grey.HOST (raises an arm, snaps with his fingers; two orderlies enter the stage): Thank you.
Tive de ir pesquisar várias palavras, o que é sempre bom para aumentar o vocabulário e também fiquei a saber quem foram Salvator Rosa e Henry Fuseli e o que são estruturas de Widmanstätten!
Nada mau para um conto de 20 páginas!I didn't think much of the story, which tells us about a series of tragic and mysterious events that occurred in a rural area after the fall of a meteorite.I really liked the way it was told, though.
I had to look up several words - always a good thing, to increase my vocabulary - and I also came to know about Salvator Rosa and Henry Fuseli and Widmanstätten patterns!
I was going to plaster photo realistic rainbow fields and forests all over this review, but I will tip my hat to Lovecraft and refrain.
(And the Darwin Award on this entry goes to the entire municipality of Arkham, or at least whoever is in charge of their water and sanitation departments.) By rights this should be two stars, but it made me laugh.
Take your three stars and go, Lovecraft.
Please note: This is part of am omnibus, The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft, which can be found on the CthulhuChick website formatted for Nook or Kindle.My Synopsis: A man tells the story of how a strange, desolate piece of land came to be known as the blasted heath due to the coming of a mysterious meteorite containing a strangely colored globule inside.My Thoughts: Another masterpiece of creeping horror over the strange and unknown.
Some of the descriptions might almost - almost - describe radiation poisoning, but not quite.Lovecraft definitely knows how to build a scene, especially in these works from the height of his career.
4.5I loved this story.A surveyor comes to the valley near Arkham to check the land for the new reservoir.
People in Arkham tell him that the place is evil.
He soon realizes that the horrible thing in the old days happened in 'the lifetime of those who spoke' and after too many warnings not to listen to Ammi Pierce's crazy stories, he decides to talk to Ammi.
After he finds out what actually happened, the surveyor quits his job praying that the water would destroy anything that might be in that valley.The first part of the story is told in the first person.
I listened to this on The SFFAudio podcast. Donal Buckley did a great job with the audio narration - I loved his accent (Irish?).This was a mix of horror and sci-fi. In 68 minutes Lovecraft (and Buckley) managed to creep me out. Lovecraft masterfully builds tension and suspense and atmosphere. Here Lovecraft doesn't make the mistake of revealing the monster too early and even then he leaves a lot to interpretation. This story employs basic human fears of the unknown and of what lurks in the shadows to generate creep factor.The subsequent audio discussion was pretty good too.4 stars
It has been decades that I read something by H.P. Lovecraft, but I remember that I was not really taken then either. This story is solid, but its horror did not grip me. Albeit the massive use of intimidating adjectives I never felt the cold crawl up my back as should be with any good horror story.
A longer short story from Lovecraft this time and quite possibly the best I've read (actually it is the best I've read, but I've only read two others).
Things happen, but no details come forth.
It is implied strongly, with language and rhetoric I've not come across before, but it isn't obvious what is happening all of the time.This was written at a time when science wasn't quite there for the fiction.
This is early sci-fi dressed up as gothic horror.
The mix of attempted sci-fi and eldritch horror is a good combination that Alien vs.
Mr. Lovecraft has me hooked.
A three-story book, this seems like a sampler for me.
This book consists of Lovecraft's short stories: The Colour Out of Space, The Outsider and The Hound.
I am glad that this didn't fail my expectations of Lovecraft.
Carefully written, with vivid details on the imagery, and dark appeal, this can give you goosebumps.
The stories are creepy, but not the kind that can make you scream.
But it's a page-turner, and the voice of the storyteller is perfect for a dark, gothic storytelling.This book is a good start for me to continue on my next book of his.
Another re-read for me. One of Lovecraft's finest stories that is perfectly paced and with a great build up and release of tension at the end.A meteor lands in a farmer's land in a rural backwater in New England. It has exceedingly strange properties that baffle scientists and gradually has a strange and insidious effect on the surrounding area.Definitely recommended for those new to Lovecraft, especially if you're already inclined to read SF.
Un relato de apenas 35 páginas pero que ha conseguido hacerme estremecer y sentir miedo. Totalmente recomendable para amantes del género del terror.
To simplify...Plot : A meteorite lands in Arkham, Massachusetts; deforms flora and fauna, and makes the sentient insane.
Wow quote : "But even all this was not so bad as the blasted heath.
I knew it the moment I came upon it at the bottom of a spacious valley; for no other name could fit such a thing, or any other thing fit such a name."My thoughts : When it comes to modern New England creep-o-rama, Lovecraft is the man...
but favors description over plot.
So if you love stories focusing on a slow melt-down of scenery, he's your guy.
I'm old-school New England.
I really liked the style, but the stories themselves didn't fully convince me.
Lectura del mes del #Clubdelectura.uy.  "This was no breath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure. It was just a colour out of space, a frigthful messenger from unformed realms of infinity beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open before our frenzied eyes."
This novella, like atavistic Arkham mysteries, takes reader through the narrative of an unnamed outsider, in his quest to understand the queer happenings of Gardner Estate, following a meteorite fall.The monster or alien or other dimensional entity in this book, is a colour, or takes the form of a colour, a colour unknown to us, and not of our cosmos.In Lovecraftian horror, the little details that are left out for reader’s imagination usually embellish the ones that form the premise.
This was my very first (and as of this date, only) H.P. Lovecraft I have ever read.
Considering my reading history, you would have thought I would have at least a few of them under my belt by now but I was avoiding him.
Keep in mind, this was also around the same age that I ate a grilled cheese sandwich, got the flu and subsequently didn't eat another for 15 years.I'm glad I got over it because he was a good writer.
Considering almost a century has passed, I didn't really find it to be overly dated.
If you've been putting off Lovecraft, this may be a good one to start with.
It was short but very good.
This is the Lovecraft that I really like. The language on this is overwrought, but at the same time so beautiful. I like the slow creeping dread of the meteorite that gradually poisons everything around it, and drains everything of color. This story contains some of key components of Lovecraft mythology, i.e. the gradual descent into madness, and the inability of people to pull themselves away from the eldritch influences even as they know its horror. I read this in the middle of the night, and it was entirely appropriate for that time.
4.5Fantástico. Qué manera tan especial de relatar tiene Lovecraft, me encanta cómo con pocas palabras logra llevar al imaginario cada una de las imágenes relatadas.Altamente recomendado a todo el que le gusta una buena historia de misterio.
The perfect scent of horror from out of space, how can you describe a color that you never seen but at the same time brings such a terrifying feeling, this os my first H.P Lovecraft short story and boy that was good, it brings chills and it’s perfectly balanced, i liked it, officially a Lovecraft enthusiast!
Lovecraft’s style is to write lavish monologues rather than a narrative so it feels like you’re reading a sequence of descriptions of elaborate and complex images rather than an actual story with a plot, characters, etc.
At least Lovecraft knew his weaknesses and stayed away from writing dialogue for the most part - which doesn’t make it easier to read - but he does attempt dialogue in The Colour Out of Space and it’s laughable.
- nobody talks like this!!(Horror trivia: in On Writing, Stephen King says his inspiration for The Tommyknockers was The Colour Out of Space.
Un cuento interesante, que podría haber tenido más de terror pero estuvo muy abocado a la investigación científica. Me gusta la forma de escritura de Lovecraft aunque creo que voy probar otraa historias para conocerlo.
მალადეც ლავკრაფტს! პ.ს. არ გახეთქოთ უცნაური გლობულები!
