https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1193015.The_Conquering_Family
It begins with the civil war between Stephen and Matilda, covers the story of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine and their children, and ends with the signing of the Magna Carta and the death of King John.
This is a lot of history to cover in less than 400 pages, so he's just hitting the highlights.
One sentence will be quite elegant, and the next paragraph will contain phrasing that might have come from a high school student's term paper, such as: "This handsome man, who had wanted everyone to like him, was probably the worst king England ever had because of the suffering he brought the people."Costain is very subjective and uses colorful language, obviously more interested in spinning a yarn than in telling a straight history.
If a straight recounting of facts is a 1 in terms of readability (bad), and historical fiction style non-fiction is a 10, then Costain's writing is a 7.
Since the Robin Hood story is joined with Richard and John, Costain takes a chapter and explains the origin of the story, the truth of the tale as well as the evidence that the real Robin Hood live 100 years later.This is the 1st volume in a series of four books that cover the Plantagenet Kings.
Costain's four-volume history of the Plantagenet's begins with The Conquering Family and the conquest of England by William the Conqueror in 1066, closing with the reign of John in 1216.The troubled period after the Norman Conquest, when the foundations of government were hammered out between monarch and people, comes to life through Costain's storytelling skill and historical imagination.I am definitely moving on to Volume two "The Magnificent Century" and I recommend this book to History lovers and even to more serious HF fans as it will give you a concise and true background to many things you may read about in your HF travels!
I absolutely loved this book!
It is the first book in a series of 4 detailing the history of England from the Conqueror to the end of the Plantagenet dynasty.
It's an older book, and the historian feels free to make commentary on the history, drawing conclusions about human nature and placing value judgments on what happened.
The book has really changed my opinion of Henry II, deepened my appreciation of and fascination with Thomas A'Beckett, given me a new and more balanced view of Eleanor of Aquitaine, completely changed my opinion of Richard, and, though I knew John was a very bad king, I now know exactly why.
:)Lots of fun, very informative, and I immediately bought the next in the series.
I first read Costain's four-volume history of the Plantagenet family back when I was twelve or thirteen--- long, long ago.
I can't say that they're academic history, or that Costain's interpretations of England from the 1140s to 1485 have held up.
But these are the books that introduced me to Anglo-Norman England and to a host of figures (Henry and Eleanor, the over-maligned John, Edward I, the over-praised Henry V, the tragic Richard III) I went on to read about in other, more academic works.
I think the Costain books still work as an introduction, and I very much think they're good reads.
His writing style is so smooth (I guess you would call him Popular History) that the book almost reads like a novel.
Even though I have read many books about my favorite king (which interest was launched, I admit, by "The Lion In Winter"), I still found Costain's descriptions entertaining, and at times original to me.
So I would venture to say that Costain would pick and choose the tastiest tidbits to include, but he tied them all together very cleanly.In the end, it seems he couldn't resist a little moralizing, and essentially concluded that the Norman invasion was a good thing for the country (in the long run).
Page 9:It was in an early year of the twelfth century that a handsome young man named Geoffrey, son of the Count of Anjou, fell into the habit of wearing a sprig of the yellow bloom (planta genesta) in his helmet.A magnificent historical review by Thomas Costain with plenty of details of all important characters involved in the medieval history in Great Britain.
History, on which people depended once for enlightenment and entertainment in reading, is now little read except in classrooms, and this is due to the stern limits which historians have set for themselves.From chapter one: It was late in September, the year was 1066, and that section of the great north highway which crosses the Aire and the Wharfe and rolls on to the city of York was black with marching soldiers.Premise/plot: Thomas Costain wrote four (nonfiction) books on the Plantagenets.
It is written to be entertaining to the masses, if you will.The overall 'so what' of the book is that Costain believes that England was ultimately better off because of the Norman invasion led by William the Conqueror.
Conquering Family is a marvelous summary of the Angevin era. Having previously read several works on this period, I was initially skeptical that an overview would be of much interest. However, Costain quickly proved me wrong. His insightful treatment added to my knowledge and his wonderful prose never failed to keep me engaged and entertained.
Costain is no slouch himself when it comes to imprinting his own opinions on the storyline, but in the end, while I might come away with a slightly skewed idea on some of the minute details, the larger picture falls solidly into place.I believe that the time when Costain was writing also affects the narrative--were someone to try and cover this same period now (and writing in a 'popular' style), our contemporary sensibilities would no doubt influence what the author would feel was worthwhile to emphasize.
Originally published in 1949, Thomas Costain's Conquering Family is a history of Henry II and his family.
Costain uses his British style to introduce readers to the Plantagenet's with detail and an entertaining voice.
New research has discovered William is not Rosamund's son-- the child of one of Henry's other mistresses, Ida. Throughout the work, the author provides useful asides.
One aspect that maybe tough for new readers to this period of history are the author's speculations.
I was reading this concurrent with The Plantagenets: The Warrior Kings and Queens Who Made England by Dan Jones.

Costain said he wanted to write a history of England that reads like a story.
And it really is a history with no dialogue, but he writes in such a way that you don't lose interest.
An older lady I know recommended Costain to me and I've been searching for his books for about a year.
I finally got the spelling of Costain right and found them a couple weeks ago.
When I got the book, it still had one of the old cards in the back from the precomputer days!
Great great book; best history of England I've read to date...

History for those who hate reading history.
Costain does a remarkable job of bringing to life the dry historical record of the earliest Norman kings of England.
He intimately describes the character of the august personages that ruled that age and brings an immediacy to the world of the late 11th and early 12th centuries.
If you are one of those (and there are a great many of you) who hate reading history this is the book for you.
It is a wonderful examination of an interesting aspect of English history that is never dull or dry.
Medieval English history is a favourite of mine, particularly the Plantagenets and Tudors.
Somehow, I haven't read much on the early Plantagenets but this book,has put it right.
Although this book and the three follow-ups were written in the 1950's, Costain's writing style is just as good today.
He writes in a semi-novel way but retains the facts without wandering too much away from what happened.
It is really a history book but written in a way that engages the reader without being boring.
I wish he had been my history teacher at school.
I may have have become a historian myself.
This is a great history book. Costain focuses not on dates or battles but on the personalities of the characters involved. After reading this book, you really feel like you know these famous people as people and not just as faceless drones that march through history. Its told in a type of story form, but it isnt dumbed down either. It is a historically rich text. This is one of those books that is great for the hard core history reader and also the casual reader who is interested in English roya
This is a great history book. Costain focuses not on dates or battles but on the personalities of the characters involved. After reading this book, you really feel like you know these famous people as people and not just as faceless drones that march through history. Its told in a type of story form, but it isn´t dumbed down either. It is a historically rich text. This is one of those books that is great for the hard core history reader and also the casual reader who is interested in English royalty.
I will grant that for a more nuanced and detailed view of the history covered in the Pageant of England one might want to look elsewhere. However there is something that always brings me back Costain. He shows an obvious interest in the period and its very colorful characters. I think as an introduction to the period this book and its series cannot be surpassed. It combines masterful scholarship with a style as engrossing as any work of fiction.
I had forgotten how much I enjoy reading Thomas Costain! This book reads more like a novel than a work of history. I enjoyed the details about peoples' lives, their clothing, the meals they ate. Richard the Lion-Heart was a jerk and John I was a bully! They, however, were just like every other ruler of the time; Costain provides an excellent picture of the Plantagenet era, not just in England but France, Rome, and the Holy Land as well.
I purchased the four books in this series back in the early 80's. I ordered them through my local bookstore, didn't ask the price for whatever reason. When they came in and I went to pay for them, I was a bit shocked when the cashier related the total: $142.00 for all four. She said they were consideed to be text books. That all being said, I never regretted the money spent. I love these books!!!
THE book that introduced me to King Henry II of England, and I have been a devoted and loyal subject of his ever since. Any inaccuracies that exist in this book are easily addressed in W.L. Warren's "Henry II" and/or Richard Barber's "Henry Plantagenet". Unlike the latter two volumes, "The Conquering Family" also covers the reigns of Richard I (Lionheart) and John.
Much worse than I expected. A dated approach, with very little on anything other than kings and their hangers on, with some added stereotypes verging on racism in the final chapter. The author's take on the Middle Ages is just as stereotypical, for example inoverplaying the influence of the church. I was expecting a bit more gossip at least, but even in this respect it doesn't do too well
I cannot put this book down and I am looking forward to the others written about the Plantagenets of England. There is much information about their lives, and the history they were creating. Henry 11...Richard the Lionheart...Thomas a' Becket...for starters. I love these books
This book is incredibly thorough and the author has a gift for weaving facts about medieval life into his narrative to bring the scenes to life. My only concern is that it was written so long ago and some information may have changed with further research since then.
I'm not sure if this is considered fiction, but it reads like a novel. Actually, this is a series. The Three Edwards, The Last of the Plantagenets, and the Magnificent Century are a great intro to the history of England's kings.
Costain is a storyteller at heart, and embellishes the history with descriptions of place and costume and emotion novelistically described. (He is always careful to distinguish history from story.) I'm looking forward to the remaining volumes.
This, and the rest of the Plantagenet series, now available on Kindle, released March 2012. But oh my, those prices!
In The Conquering Family, Costain tells the story of the first Plantagenet Kings of England, and how their reigns lead to the rise and fall of the Angevin Empire, the emergence of the English culture, sowed the seeds of Protestantism, and brought about that world-changing document, the Magna Carta.Constain's work isn't that of a historian, but that of a chronicler.
However, as the various chapters tend to have focus on just a few people and places, it's not a necessity, more of, would have been a nice bonus.In short, If you'd like to learn about England's first century following the Norman Conquest, but need bit more of a narrative spin than a Wikipedia article, this should be your go-to text.
I went to my personal library and pulled out these books I hadn't read for well over 40 years.
I will try and read the next one, because I am interested in the history; but if it is as bad as this one is, I'll call it quits.
Someone must have told Costain the use of foreshadowing peaks the reader's interest.
The last section of the book was grotesque.
I gagged.To add pages to the book, Costain included a copy of the Magna Carta in its entirety.
Costain threw out names of cities I had never heard of.
What starts off as a confusing jumble of Matilda's slowly becomes more clear as the historical figures make their mark on history.
But, nonetheless, I enjoyed his style.More than once I recognized similarities to Game of Thrones, both in the 'black of hair' writing style and the historical figures such as Longchamp, a splendid mix of Tyrion and Littlefinger.
If nothing else the history of the Angevin era is incredibly interesting.
The Angevin three kings, the French menace, Eleanor of Aquitaine, the third crusade (fought against Saladin), William Marshall, Longchamp, and Thomas Beckett all provide ample room for further research.
