https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16316.The_Big_Four
But really, the main problem here is that Poirot is fighting a team of supervillains, and he uses disguises and smoke bombs and has to find their secret underground lair and the whole thing is just...odd.
Sometimes Christie has characters talk of this "big four" wanting to cause world revolution "like in Russia", but that fails to clear things up.
I don't want Poirot to fight supervillains.
I want him in little English towns, ferreting out murderers who have motives.
Are you accusing me of murder?" to which Poirot says things like "You have, as they say, caught the bird in the bush, Madame.
Once upon a time, Agatha Christie stayed up way too late, drank her way through three bottles of Chardonnay and watched a Sean Connery James Bond film. As she was going to bed, some time about 3am, her eyes rested for a moment on her typewriter. I would not be in the least surprised if that was all she remembered about this book. For shame, Agatha. This is exactly the same reason I'm not allowed whisky and Twitter on the same evening any more.
Personally if I hadn't been told this "fact" I wouldn't have guessed, although, it is set out as a series of little mysteries.
I quite liked this format as I lived with the progression of the overall storyline, as Hastings and Poirot battled the Big Four through a series of adventures.Strangely I had never read this book before, I don't know how I missed it, but I really enjoyed it.
I am surprised that this is only Hercule Poirot Number 5, it just seemed that Poirot was old (ish) and Hastings was still living in Argentina, which I thought happened late on in their relationship.
This is possibly the silliest book Christie ever wrote. It's full of Trilateral Commission conspiracy theories, evil scientists developing powerful beams that can wreak untold damage, and a hidden fortress inside a mountain. Yes, really. The only thing it lacked was sharks with fricking lasers attached to their heads.
Robert Barnard, for example, stated that it was, “cobbled together,” “demeaning to Poirot,” and “pretty dreadful.”Despite these criticisms, though, “The Big Four,” is, to my mind, a lot of fun and showed just how good Christie was under pressure.
What follows is non-stop action, as Hastings and Poirot follow leads, investigate murders, find themselves in danger and do what they can to discover the identity of these criminal masterminds.
Even at such a low point, she created a fun, fast-moving novel, with a lot of recommend it to Poirot fans and, as such, it is certainly worth reading.
The UK edition retailed at seven shillings and six pence and the US edition at $2.00.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هجدهم سپتامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: چهار غول بزرگ؛ آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: مجتبی عبدالله نژاد؛ تهران، هرمس، کتابهای کارآگاه، 1390؛ در 220 ص، شابک: 9789643637699؛ موضوع: داستانهای کارآگاهی و پلیسی از نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 20 ماگر کتاب را خوانده اید و میخواهید بخوانید، ادامه ی این نگاشته را نخوانید.
عنوان: چهار قدرت بزرگ؛ را در جاهای دیگر به جای چهار غول بزرگ برگزیده اند؛ یک رمان جنایی اثر بانو آگاتا کریستی ست که در آن هرکول پوآرو و آرتور هستینگز نقش دارند.
The Big Four has one of the silliest plots of Christie's books which is based on Poirot and Hastings engaging in international crime and espionage - much in the same way that Holmes and Watson do,just in a more believable way.
Where Holmes is reserved enough to carry off disguises and under-cover work, Poirot's flamboyance has him stick out like a sore thumb all over the place, and Christie's attempts at making us believe that Hastings, or indeed anyone else, does not recognise him are just ludicrous.The book was written in 1927 and is the first of Christie's novels that show her making an attempt at writing an espionage / crime thriller with an international setting.
This book is a weird Hercule Poirot story.
What do you think about a story where Hercule Poirot against a crime organisation that aim for worldly power?
Without spoiler, that's all I can say for now.Not exactly don't like this novel, but it was pretty close to 1 star.
If I am a devout for Van Dine rules, I would give this book 1 star.
This novel definitely broke rule number 13.(Yes yes, I know the author broke these rules several times.
But usually the author broke the rule beautifully.
If you know another novel that broke the rules worse than this novel, please inform me)
2.5 starsThis being the 5th book in the Poirot series is very different from any other Poirot book or in fact different to any other Christie book that I have read till date.Instead of a cozy setting of a house, village or hand few of suspicious people with multiple red herrings, this is about an  International Gang - Big Four . This famous gang comprises of 4 people and we know the identity of one of the members right away.We come to know the identity of the remaining members as and when the st
2.5 starsThis being the 5th book in the Poirot series is very different from any other Poirot book or in fact different to any other Christie book that I have read till date.Instead of a cozy setting of a house, village or hand few of suspicious people with multiple red herrings, this is about an 
There are multiple short stories in this book where Hercule Poirot faces the Big Four in different mind games.
يعود هيستنغز إلى بريطانيا بعد غياب طويل ليفاجأ عند وصوله باستعداد بوارو للسفر إلى البرازيل بمهمة سيجني من ورائها ثروة طائلة إلا أن وصول هارب من مصح عقلي بحالة عجيبة يحول دون إتمام السفر وتغيير الخطة لتتحول جهود بوارو وخلاياه الرمادية لحل لغز منظمة خطيرة متعددة الجنسيات تحاول الهيمنةعلى العالم وتقف وراء العديد من الجرائم وتستمر محاولات بوارو للإيقاع بالمنظمة شهور عديدة بمساعدة هيستنغز والمفتش جاب غرور بوارو وسخريته من صديقه بأعلى الدرجات هنا..
أحداث ونهاية بقمة السذاجة أما الترجمة فتعيسة ومليئة بالأخطاء القاتلة لم تعجبني بتاتا 1.5 نصيحة لمن لم يقرأ لأجاثا بعد فليؤجل هذه الرواية وإلا قد لا تعاود التجربة ثانية
Prior to beginning this read, I couldn't help but notice that several readers were less than thrilled about Hercule Poiriot in this conspiracy theory type mystery.
Although I agree that it is far from the masterpieces that are And Then There Were None OR Murder on the Orient Express, it wasn't as terrible as I anticipated.
If anything, the book didn't keep me as riveted to my seat as my previous three reads( the two aforementioned novels and a short story).
Bad idea.*A complicated plot with a twist ending, of course, you expect that, but it's too complicated to care about, confusing, actually, and not that much of a surprise when it all works out.*It's an international thriller, a world stage, versus the small intimate settings Poirot usually works in.
Bad idea.*We get to entertain these questions: Is Poirot dead?!
Many of those things she tries in the book didn't work, but she is still working on developing that Poirot character here, and that is not a complete waste of time to watch, the master developing her craft.
The Big Four even have a super-secret underground villains' lair!
Perhaps she meant it to be light-hearted fun, but, if so, this does not come through--one usually knows when she is being light-hearted, as with Partners in Crime.It's ironic to me that Agatha keeps me spellbound with her more cerebral, less "active" novels, such as Cards on the Table, but bores me silly when she goes for derring-do.
Perhaps this just isn't my cup of tea and The Big Four would be an enjoyable novel for a fan of the adventure genre.
Continui să citesc cărți scrise de Agatha.Îmi plac!
On to the review: the only reason I can justify the existence of this abomination is that it is a parody (I hope it is) of Sherlock Holmes vs.
I also need to mention that the most part of the last case is taken almost word-by-word from first half of Sherlock Holmes' The Final Problem with substitution by names.
I am a big fan of him, and the next worst Poirot story gets solid 4 stars from me, but try as I might I cannot bring myself to give this one more than 1 star.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 4 βιβλία με διαφορετικούς ντετέκτιβ    (3/4)Παροδοχές:1. Είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο με ήρωα τον Πουαρώ που διαβάζω2. Είναι το τρίτο βιβλίο της Agatha Christie που διαβάζω3. Έχω επηρεαστεί ήδη από την τηλεοπτική απεικόνιση του4. Δεν τον συμπαθώ τον Πουαρώ, είναι υπερόπτης5. Η μετάφραση είχε αρκετές αστοχίες6. Κάποιες σελίδες της έκδοσης αυτής ήταν μπρος πίσω, αλλού ντ’ αλλούΓενικότερες σκέψεις:Δεν μου αρέσει όταν τα μυστήρια / εγκλήματα λύνονται από κάποια τυχαία παρατήρηση, συγκυρία,
Μάλιστα είχε γράψει την τελευταία του ιστορία «Curtain: Poirot's Last Case» το 1945 ( όπως και της Miss Marple ), τις συμπεριέλαβε στην διαθήκη της και της κρατούσε σε χρηματοκιβώτιο για να είναι σίγουρη πως θα υπάρχουν.
How Agatha Christie grew to dislike Hercule Poirot	Όσον αφορά το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο, που έδωσε την εντύπωση πως ήταν μια ταινία James Bond αλλά κάπως ασύνδετη.
Θεωρώ αυτό το βιβλίο αστοχία για τον ήρωα και δεν θα το αφήσω να με αποτρέψει από το να διαβάσω μια άλλη περιπέτεια του.
ربما تبدو كل منها رائعة لكن ان كانت بمفردها ..من الواضح ان السيدة اجاثا فبركت علاقة ما بين هذه القصص لإعطاء السيد 4 قدرة خرافية ..من ينظر إلى الرواية بشكل جيد سيعلم.انه ليست هناك ثمة علاقة بين هذه القصص جميعاً ...العلاقة بينها مفبركة تماماً .تبدو ان هذه القصص القصيرة قد كتبتها اجاثا منفردة ثم عمدت إليها بعد ذلك فقامت بتغيير البداية و النهاية لكل قصة لجعلها تبدو بعد ضمها الى بعضها البعض كرواية مترابطة كاى رواية اخرى الشىء الاكثر تميزا فى الرواية ان اجاثا كريستى كتبت هذه الرواية سنة 1927 تقريبا سبقت ابان فليمنج ' جيمس بوند الشهير' بسنوات عديدة..

No wonder she was off her game, poor dear.Originally published in serial format, this cluster of overblown spy adventures should never have featured portly, inactive Poirot & clueless Hastings as the heroes.
James Bond and Tintin would have been better choices for the roles.Moving away from subtle clues and hidden motives, Christie seems to have written a movie script for Michael Bay to direct.
As Christie would say, "I welly sorry." *cringe*Leave this one on the shelf, and go read one of Christie's slow-paced village mysteries; they're so much better.
If you're desperate for an international spy thriller by her, try 'The Man in the Brown Suit' instead.
Crucially, Poirot has a soft spot for a flamboyant Russian Countess - Rossakoff, who also appears in the deservedly unpublished Poirot short Capture of Cerebrus http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
http://aneyespy.blogspot.ca/2013/01/g...Too much like Sherlock Holmes, including the faked death, cannot be believed or taken seriously.
The "fate of the whole world" finale is like comic books aka (politically correct) graphic (I always think "explicit") novels.(view spoiler)[ The secret lair of the Nazi super villain lies under the mountain and ends with a big bang explosion in many movies - and even in my decades-later latest reviews http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/....The accumulated succession of clues overwhelms.
But instead of a romp she delivered a book that lacks both insight and joy with cardboard cutouts rather than characters.In many ways the most interesting thing about this book is the insight it gives into how precarious the world of the privileged middle-class seemed in the late 20s even before the stock market crash.
Without doubt this book has no pretensions to realism yet at the same time it wouldn't have worked had it not played on the barely unconscious fears of the relatively monied that their world was tottering on the edge of something very frightening.
2.75*Possibly the worst Agatha Christie I’ve ever read.It started out ok, but went downhill quickly.....very disappointing.
Di awal kariernya, novel misteri Agatha Christie bisa digolongkan jadi dua kelompok besar: jenis pembunuhan ruang tertutup (biasanya menampilkan detektif non-konvensional seperti Hercule Poirot dan Jane Marple), dan jenis petualangan/thriller bertema spionase (menampilkan pasangan Tommy & Tuppence Beresford, maupun tokoh-tokoh petualang wanita yang lincah seperti Bundle Brent dan Anne Beddingfield).
Hasilnya adalah Empat Besar, di mana seorang Poirot yang biasanya 'mager' dan berpedoman "Akan kupecahkan kasus dengan duduk tenang di ruang kamar sambil mengerahkan sel-sel kelabuku!" terpaksa harus keliling dunia untuk menghentikan sepak terjang gembong penjahat super yang ingin menguasai dunia!!......yah, untuk menikmati judul yang satu ini, ekspektasi terhadap cerita memang harus disetel sedemikian rupa.
These super-criminals known as the Big Four are even fronted by a Chinese Mastermind.To say this book is a product of its time is both an understatement and also baffling as it is so utterly bizarre that it doesn't really feel appropriate for any time save for possibly an alternate timeline where Poirot was perhaps a comic book character.Seriously, there is a line in the book, and I am quoting here, that goes: "Yes, you are both in the trap - the trap of the Big Four!" This is not Christie dialogue, this is bad comic book dialogue.
But re-read has surely increased my ratings.Plots opens up when a mysterious man is found in Poirot's bedroom.
This mysterious visitor is left in care of Poirot's housekeeper and Poirot along with Hastings set off for the current case.
But in mid way Poirot suspects that this "Big Four" case is more interesting and they return, only to find that their visitor is dead.
Japp identified him as Mayerling , a secret service man who went missing 5 years ago.And Poirot sets up to find this "Big Four" organization.
And without a setting of a village/countryside this gets rather muddled at times.
أكثر ما أعجبني فيها هو أن الأحداث تشرح نفسها بطريقة جميلة جداً، لا تحتاج للكثير من التفكير من قبل القارئ وفي نفس الوقت لن تجدها مباشرة أمامك فـ أحياناً قد تضطر لقراءة أحد الفصول مرة أخرى .
يعيبها أن بعض التفاصيل الدقيقة غير قابلة للتصديق بسهولة، لكن بالنهاية هذه رواية ومستحيل أن يكون جميع ما ذُكر فيها صحيحاً وواقعياً 100% .
يعيبها أيضاً أن النهاية لم تكن على مستوى إثارة الأحداث التي مرت بها الرواية النهاية سريعة جداً ورغم انها ليست نهاية مفتوحة لكنها لم تشفي غليلي للأسف .في النهاية هي مناسبة لمن ليس لديه خلفية عن الروايات البوليسية أو الأفلام أيضاً مثلي، يستطيع أن يقرأها ويفهمها ويتخيل تفاصيلها دون أي مشكلة ..
Rating: 2* of fiveMiddling-at-best early 20th century spy fiction short stories.A melodramatic and ghastly filmed version.One and only one reason to watch the filmed version is the reunion of Miss Lemon, Japp, Hastings, and Poirot. But get tipsy first because your common sense is about to be done a violence.
رواية بمنتهى السخافة, أسوء قصص أغاثا على الإطلاق.من خلال بحثي قرأت أن هذه الرواية في الأصل كانت مكتوبة على شكل قصص مغامرات مسلسلة في إحدى المجلات, و في وقت لاحق تم تجميعها في كتاب واحد فأنتجت هذه المهزلة البوليسية.
Whenever I read any Best of "xyz" book, I thought all of them are so good, I must read the complete collection.
But books like this one would make one feel that the editors of those Best of "xyz" books must be some saint having saved the readers from the clasp of such hocus-pocus and doomed piece of writing :/ I was glad that it had somewhat 18 chapters only instead of 28/30.
The writing was totally a mess, incoherent, and poorly drawn.
Madame Christie juxtaposed several short stories into this novel with continuous uttering of the title The Big Four -_- Wouldn't recommend it!
This was not the best Poirot novel. It's storyline was far too grand and epic in scope to be covered in less than 200 pages. Instead of charming, it just seemed baffling. Poirot is good, but this book made him out to be clairvoyant in his ability to guess EVERYTHING correctly. It wasn't a horrible book, but I hope this isn't an indication of how the stories will continue!
