https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163653.The_Tar_Aiym_Krang
My second Pip and Flinx novel was the first written in the series but it takes place right after book five.
No. But as light fun with a kid with a mysteriously powerful and/or unknown level of empathic telepathy, flexible moral compass in some circumstances but not in the ways that are really important, or simply...
it's a real delight and an easy read.It helps when we get spaceships and space battles, intrigue, planetary mysteries and ancient dead civilizations, and baddies who you *know* are bad.
(So you don't feel bad when they get ripped to shreds) :)This is a pure adventure and it is what it is.
I can’t believe the rubbish job Del Rey (Ballantine) has done on the current reprints of the well beloved Pip & Flinx novels.
The Tar-Aiym Krang is very, very readable and conjures up fond memories of some of the early science fiction I'd read as a teenager, although this book is certainly not limited as far as target audience is concerned.
Flinx is easy to identify with and Pip is, well, Pip. As far as flying, venomous mini-drag(on) alien pets go, he’s pretty standard I suppose…The novel is certainly not without its faults.
3.0 to 3.5 stars. First book in the Pip and Flinx series. I enjoyed the relationship between the two main characters and the world-building was interesting.
Nebloga, bet niekuo neišskirtinė knyga. Pilna klišių ir stereotipų, standartinių sci-fi temų ir sampratų. Tiesą sakant, perskaičiau knygą vakar, o šiandien jau ne taip ir lengva prisimint kokius nors išskirtinius momentus iš jos - viskas kažkur matyta, girdėta, skaityta. Jei reikėtų panaudoti vieną vienintelį žodį apibūdinti šitą knygą, tas žodis būtų generic. Paviršutiniškam pasiskaitymui tinka, bet nieko fresh joje nerasite.

Fast-paced, full of fun and adventure, the Pip&Flinx novels by AD Foster are perhaps the best of a fine collection of works.
Still, if I need a quick, light, thoroughly enjoyable read, Foster will be among my first choices.
This is Science Fiction and for those of you smug idiots who think SF is not worth reading, Foster's contribution to the field gives such position the lie.
And P&F are nothing but fun and entertainment.
Indeed his Humanx Commonwealth novels are all worth reading, but as I said at the beginning, his P&F novels are the best of a good salad.
The second book by Alan Dean Foster I ever read.
The first was Nor Crystal Tears.
After reading that book, I decided to read his other Humanx Commonwealth books in the order in which he wrote them.
Tar-Aiym was Foster's breakout novel.
He wrote it in the early '70's.
It was also his first Flinx & Pip novel, and the first one that I read.
I really enjoyed this book.
He introduces us to Flinx & Pip, a teenge human boy and his pet flying snake, with which he shares a telepathic bond.
Very good book, again I really enjoyed Foster's writing style.
The good news is that For Love of Mother-Not shows Foster did improve substantially between the writing of this book and that one, so I have enough faith in the series to continue.
One final thing worth mentioning is that although For Love of Mother-Not can be read as a Young Adult or adult novel (and from the new covers, it looks to me like the series is being marketed for YA instead of adults now), The Tar-Aiym Krang definitely feels more like an adult novel.
Die Sprache ist holprig, die Charaktere sind eindimensional, werden nicht eingeführt und entwickeln sich über den gesamten Roman auch nicht weiter.
Die weitestgehend nicht-existente Handlung ließe sich problemlos auf 2 Seiten zusammenfassen.Erschwerend kommt hinzu, dass das Buch nicht gut gealtert ist.
Diese "Helden", die auch noch als philosophisch und naturwissenschaftlich gebildet beschrieben werden, tragen exakt nichts zur Problemlösung bei.
Der einzige Zweck dieses ansonsten nicht lesenswerten Buchs von Alan Dean Foster ist es, die Hauptfiguren Flinx und Pip vorzustellen.
Und auch das schafft der Roman nur mit Müh' und Not. Auf jeden Fall ohne Lesevergnügen.
Mal lost his leg by choking a carnivorous ice-monster and brings crew of pretty personal pilot Atha, jealous of concubine Sissiph, and bodyguard Wolf, tortured by AAnn. Unfortunately, surgically-beautified aging Rashaleilla Nuaman, competing with her power-hungry young niece Teleen, sends equally evil Able Nikosos to take the remote planet.
(view spoiler)[ Finally, Pip acts as conduit so Krang dumps vast knowledge and Power into Flinx.
Flinx shoots down Nikosos, heals overloaded Pip, sends Krang back into hibernation, returns able to "see" the "whole universe" and keen to explore same p251.
The action is awesome and the science, though a little dated at spots, only adds to the story.The one problem this book has is that being Foster's first book in the Commonwealth, he has a lot to explain, and Bran Tse-Mallory is there to do that.
It kind of felt like one of those thirties sci-fi books where they would cut from the action to explain the exposition: "As you know, Truzenzuzex...", but in the end I do have to admit that he had painted a vivid picture of Foster's vision of the future.
This problem doesn't crop up so much in his other books.
I had enjoyed a prequel to this book written eleven years later.
I recall trying this first book (1972) of the series without success.
Now I know why.The universe described is fun, with bits of fascinating tech ideas.
However, like much early SF, it is horribly sexist.
The only real female characters are the captain of a ship, portrayed only as a lovesick, jealous idiot and a sex lynx (literally).
Neither take part in the action or plot.
It is also overly descriptive, and the characters are pretty flat.
Book 2 of the Flinx series.
Flinx is now a young adult and an accomplished thief as well as an entertainer.
He no longer lives with his adopted mother, but stays close (in fact his "stage" is next to her stall).A series of incidents brings him into contact with one of the major traders on Moth and he's included in an adventure that takes him off planet for the first time.The book lives up to its predecessor (For Love of Mother-Not) and is extremely entertaining and easy to read.
I can heartily recommend it to science fiction - adventure lovers.
When under stress, read.
When under extreme stress, read all your old favorites.
I just reread the entire Pip and Flinx series.
I don't know why I like these books so well.
I think it had something to do with a totally gifted person who has had a hard life and is clueless.
Not that I am totally gifted, had a hard life or am clueless.
hmmmmm) Like some of the Dorsai books without the blood and guts.
Pip and his flying dragon Flinx take on the world and mangage to win even if no one knows that they did it.
A fun romp with lovable characters. Teenage Flinx and his pet minidragon Pip set out with rich merchant Malaika, scientists Tse-Mallory and Truzenzuzex, pilots etc. to find a huge artifact (the Krang) left by a vanished super race. Flinx is much changed by the experience and at the end is not sure where he will go next and what he will do. On to the next in the series!
The Tar-Aiym Krang is a good example of 1970's science fiction.
This polity is of great importance to the author, and to some of his other stories, but plays almost no role in the story at hand.
Again this explanation plays little part in the story, but it could be reasonably assumed by the author and his publisher that readers of science fiction in that day and age of its publication would be fascinated and intrigued by the idea.
I like that fact that the Pip and Flinx novels are not extremely long as well, most that I have read are about 300-400 pages or less, which is good because I have a lot of books to read.
I love the fact that Bran Tse-Mallory and Truzenzuzex made their introductory appearance in this novel (I have not read the Flinx of the Commonwealth series in order ><), as aside from Flinx they are my favorite characters.
I haven't read them all though as of yet, so here's hoping.I would recommend The Tar-Aiym Krang to my friends and others, though I would suggest reading the Flinx of the Commonwealth series in the order they are meant for.
This was one of the first science fiction novels I read, many years ago while a schoolboy, one of the books that got me into the genre, and I'm rereading it after many years.
Malaika's use if Kiswahili is nice, though it's a very antiquated form of the language.
None are developed as well as the male secondary characters; in fact they're little more than window dressing.
Not as well developed as his later work, but all the pieces fit together nicely.
I'm looking forward to rereading more of the Humanx novels, and the Flinx series in particular.
My first readings of Alan Dean Foster were the books Alien and Star Wars: Splinter of the Mind's Eye and the Star Trek Log series.
I did not enjoy any of these books very much but thought I would give Mr. Foster a try with his own material.
I did not feel that this book did what it had the potential to do with its characters.
I may read another Pip and Flinx.
They seem interesting, but Foster didn't give them anything interesting to do.
Also, if Flinx is the main character and Flinx is the companion/sidekick/pet/familiar, why dies Pip get top billing.
The first 3 or 4 books of this series were out when I was younger, and Flinx fired my imagination with his psionic talents, his flying, venom spitting snake, pip, and him being an orphan raised on the streets.This was the first Pip & Flinx that he wrote (He went back later and wrote For Love of Mother-not).
The story is actually kind of slow.However, I wanted for Flinx to develop and use his psionic talents.
The series is now something like 13 books and his mental talents are still unreliable and pretty much useless; this was a very, very, very big disappointment to me for the series as a whole.
Very good but I am starting to feel these books are on tad on the short side, the ending also seemd kind of abrupt and didn't seem to answer many question.(view spoiler)[ He and Pip start the machine and seem to have gained some amazing powers but he doesn't or isn't able to communicate more than he has with the machine?
Also now that I have started the next book it seems the effects of those barriers in his mind that were lowered is wearing off?
4 stars instead of 5 because this ending seems "incomplete".
(hide spoiler)]
There was a chunk of VERY obvious infodumping near the beginning of this that actually made me smile. Because? I KNOW that the young version of me would NEVER have noticed it. And it's only now that I'm grown and have tried my own hand at writing that I can realize what Foster did.
I have to admit I'm not convinced yet. But I've been using it as background while at work so maybe that's why I don't feel 100% enthralled? I do enjoy some of the characters quite a bit but the plot was unsatisfying. It feels like a prequel rather than a novel.
in reality, this is the first of the pip and Flinx books Foster had published, but for timeliness continuity, it is the second...starting when Flinx, a young and very talented youth who grew up in the marketplace of Drallar, the capital city of the perpetually damp planet Moth, gets himself involved first in a deadly encounter with assassins, then a short while later with two very prominent figures who are seeking something created by the ancient and very war like race called the Tar-Aiym.this led to an adventure into the vast and barren area of the galaxy know own as the blight.
ADF is mostly known for film novelizations: I read my first of his at age 12, for Star Wars.
I can take or leave those (though is the subject of one of my very, very few conspiracy theories, which is that ADF actually wrote a lot of the first Star Wars trilogy after Lucas handed him the basic plot.
But it was a surprise to me, because ADF doesn't commit this sin in other books he has written.But the plot is aimless, the characters flat, and the world-building unimpressive and derivative.
It's a fast, light, entertaining read. I'm noticing a pattern with the few books by this author that I've read so far. He wraps up his stories quickly, conveniently and sometimes a bit confusingly. I read For "Love of Mother, Not" before this one since chronologically, it's the first Pip & Flinx story. It's interesting how Pip has evolved from this story, backtracking to For the Love of Mother, Not. It was an opportunity for the author to hone the character.
My memory says I loved this series when I first read it. This was a reread. It was good, but I wasn’t jazzed. Flinx has an unknown genetic background that appears to have granted him mental empathy/telepathy. He also associates with a poisonous mini/dragon that has a strong desire to protect Flinx. Flinx ends up being hired by a bigwig to track down a missing artifact from a powerful disappeared alien race. Interesting political interactions among a variety of races.
Eh! A bit below par. Too much time describing hardware, weapons, ships, etc. We are told about the characters personalities & traits when it would have been better to have these revealed in dialogue and behavior. Also should have been edited to correct small but annoying inconsistencies and/or odd sentence structures. Mindless quick read with some entertainment value.
Re-reading the series after many years. Still enjoyable. but runs a bit 'shallow' on character and plot. I think that this one is one of my least favorites of the series. It's really just lots of set-up/back story for action in other books.
Re-reading this Alan Dean Foster series again. Brilliantly conceived fun. Excellent.
