https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264778.Sacajawea
Simply put, this is the most amazing story I know and the book is incredibly written.
i read this very long book about 14 years ago, and I remember my mother reading it about 10 years prior to that.
I still have the actual book that she and I read.
It's very special to me, not just for the connection to my mother, but because the story of Sacajawea is so well depicted within it's covers.
I remember laughing on one page, then sobbing to the point of having to put the book down on the next.
I read this book when I was in 4th and 5th grade.
It took me close to a year to complete the whole thing--but I eventually wrote a 5th grade book report on it when we were assigned to read a historical fiction piece.
My teacher rewarded us with a piece of licorice for every 40 pages we read.
As you can imagine, with a book over 1000 pages--I got a lot of licorice.
Needless to say, I was VERY popular with my 5th grade classroom the day I delivered my book report.
I realize I never wrote a review for this book and it deserves such high praise.
Waldo studied Sacajawea's (Shoshone Tribe) life for so long and did such a great job.
It is easily in my top 10 books.
It was long, 1000 pages, so I wasn't sure if I could handle it but I'm so glad I tried.
I couldn't get enough of her life and how brave she was.
The book is basically about her 8,000 mile journey with the Lewis and Clark expedition as an interpreter of Indian languages.
This was a journey that shouldn't have happened bc 1.
I really, really liked it. More like 4.5 stars, but it was long, and not a quick read for me. Really well done. Fascinating research and history.Also, I remember my grandmother having this book in her apartment as well, back in the 1980's, so it has sentimental value also!
Lots of research, but simply too damn long and suffered from "author wants to put in every single thing she discovered and dramatize every little thing." It sometimes happens with these huge doorstoppers.
But nice cover art by Tom Hall, as always.For the record, I made it to page 300, but it took a few weeks to even get that far.
A sad rate for the time period I read it, when I was knocking off a 500 page book every 3 days (and no skimming, either).
If I had to describe this book in 3 words, it would be "Molasses in January."
This tribe is a lot kinder to her and she has a few easy years until she is lost in a wager to her future husband (the perverted Toussaint Charbonneau).We next see Sacajawea pregnant with her first child (John Baptiste also known as Pomp) when she attracts the attention of Lewis and Clark.
I read this book 30 years ago and loved it.
It felt like Waldo couldn't bear to leave out one little bit of her historic research, so she places Sacajawea, Forrest-Gump-like, in the middle of pretty much every single thing that happened in the American West between 1803 and 1875.
But I stuck with it, and there were some things that I still like about this book.
If you're up to reading this book get settled in and just accept that you're about to begin a very fruitful journey. Thoroughly researched and annotated, Waldo's SACAJAWEA is a historical epic worthy of being studied in high school history classes. But don't let that color your expectations, because this novel is also a sweeping tableaux of emotions and humanity.
This book was simply amazing and I recommend it to anyone who likes to see history come alive!
Sacajawea led a very extraordinary life through her experiences with the Lewis and Clark expedition that taught her so much more than other Indian women of the period.
The book is extremely well-written and, although it is an historic novel, many facts are woven into the story (duly footnoted so you can see the inspiration for the story and read for yourself the actual evidence available).
This book had to have been researched intensively.
Anna Lee Waldo brought Sacajawea to life and this book seems a tribute to her life.
I couldn't take myself away from this book. Again, I sat with my laptop looking for more pictures, maps, timelines, letters, anything I could find. This novel was an excellent bridge for me to pull together the country's infancy, westward expansion, the Mexican-American War, and the Trail of Tears. Although I have been to much of the area covered by the Lewis and Clark expedition, I would like to revisit now that I have the images described in this book to consider.
I read this book for the first time probably about 7 years ago and then reread it again about a year later. It is a fantastic book. Growing up you hear the story of Sacajawea in school but this book really puts a face to the legend. You really see things through her eyes and see what a hard journey it was. I would definitely recommend this book. Be sure to allow some time to finish it as it is over 1400 pages long -- but well worth the read.
This is my favorite book of all time. It's the story of the Lewis and Clark Expedition from Sacajawea's point of view. Historically there are two theories about what happened to her after the expedition. One claims she died several years later, the other says she lived to a ripe old age and died in the late 1800s. This story takes the second claim and imagines what her life would have been. Excellent read for any historical fiction fan.
I guess it isn't technically fair that I rate this book as I didn't finish it. I didn't even get to the part where Sacajawea joins Lewis and Clark, which was the whole reason I wanted to read this book in the first place. But I simply couldn't get caught up in the story as Anna Lee Waldo wrote it. I never found myself really caring for Sacajawea or what was happening to her. I'm still on the look out for a good book about this woman, but this thick novel is not it.
Definitely worth reading, I enjoyed every single page.https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...#
1328pages and i was suddenly all alone when i finished this book. I've read it twice and i intend to again. Wonderful book.
Waldo spent many years reasearching to write this book and includes copious notes, which solidify the actual history and give the reader a sense of why the fictional parts weave the way they do.
Waldo really did a wonderful job making the many facets of Sacajawea's life so real to me that I felt a great kinship with her by the middle of the great Expedition, which ended about a third of the way through this book.
For those history buffs, many points along the Expedition's trail are pointed out, including what Lewis and Clark named them and what their current names are.
I think too many of my reviews start with "I love this...", but seriously, I read this in Jr High and I LOVED IT!
Actually, I remember loving about 3/4s of the 1300 or so pages.
The author offers a few hundred pages of an alternate ending that kind of messed with my mind as I had been sucked in, and believed every word...then my trust in the author was whisked away as she said, "Or, it could have happened this way...".
Still, the book is a remarkable feat of historical biography with enough conjecture to consider it historical probably, mostly true fiction.
1400 pages! I first read this book in 1984 during the summer when I was working third shift at a plastic factory. I was saving money for college. I was sleeping in my brothers room because it was the darkest one in the house. It was also filled with a bunch of traps, guns and animals in various stages of taxidermy. It set the stage for an awesome adventure with Sacajawea. The story is still wonderful all these years later.
An absolutely amazing narrative of this extraordinary woman. I truly believe that Lewis and Clark would never have survived if not for her. She had a hard life. It will make you appreciate women's rights.
Amazing read! I am sorry to leave it but happy to have visited. Excellent.
(Of course, at this point, the reader has to take some things for granted, like how this is more of a story element than a verifiable truth, seeing as we have to consider that the author wasn't actually there to witness anything, but it's okay, because at least it has its place in the story.)But then, following Sacajawea's capture by a different tribe, in which she is made a slave, things go slightly downhill.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I doubt if Lewis and Clark would have made it to the Pacific Ocean if they hadn't had the knowledge and assistance of this lovely young Indian girl along with them. It was a wise decision to take her along on their journey.
Very slow... Also super disappointed to learn that Waldo plagiarized heavily from author Benjamin Capps...
Sacajawea's life and story began before she was given that name, when she was still known as Boniva, the curious daughter of a powerful Shoshone chief with a loving family.
While reading this book, I tried to imagine how life was like and what Sacajawea would have seen and experienced and Waldo does a great job at giving enough descriptive images that you can do this.
The common perception of Sacagawea in the Lewis and Clark exhibition is that she led them on the trail, but in this book, she's never the leader, she follows the trail and helps along the way.
Read this book shortly after it came out.This was what I call a 'discovery book.' I discovered it at the family summer cottage being used to hold up a window.
Okay, it's an old family cottage.)So the poor book, whose purpose was to keep the window from smashing down on someone's hands, was rain-stained, and some of its pages were tattered.
It's now just a book, not a window-holder.)It must have been my aunt's, I'm guessing.
(I owe a lot, literary-speaking to that aunt.) Anyhow, I just kept reading.
I had no kids, yet, but I did have a fairly new husband, but I kept reading.
It has been some time since I've read this book that I'm writing this, but I just want to say amazing.
It was a fantastic read, and it really inspired me.All from Sacajawea's fictional point of view, it is easy to imagine that she was actually telling the story and events herself (even though of course she wasn't).But it does showcase her bravery, hardships, and what her life must have been like.
I felt as if I was there with her the whole entire time, and like this really WAS her life.
This fictional story was just amazing.
This is one of the most amazing books I've ever read. Even at 1300+ pages, i felt so sad to see the characters go, and Sacajewea became so real to me, and her life is epic, it needed 1300 pages to get everything told!I would recommend this to anyone passionate about history, native culture, women's rights....there's just so much in it. Some parts are hard to read-- especially some of the early cruelty that she suffered. But she rose above it all and lived a very full and quite frankly amazing life.Highly suggest it.
This book is about 3 inches thick, and worth every page. Waldo enmeshes a thorough history lesson with an engrossing story. Sacajawea is an epic read and worthy of the time it takes to plow through it. I finished this book feeling as if I'd lived a whole other life in its pages, and certainly learned much about the times and the cultures of the various Indian tribes. Rated PG-13 for sex scenes that were frank but not overt.
This book is a really cool book because it is a true story. It's about a girl named Sacajawea. She got taken away from her tribe then got married. And Louis Clark asks Sacajewea's husband and her to go on an expedition to find new land. Sacajawea was needed because she knew how to take care of the sick, she could sew clothes for them, and much more. Then came winter and she had a baby. Will they make it to the end.?
For American history buffs, this is a must. A painstakingly researched and beautifully written historical novel of the life of Lewis and Clark's native American guide. The actual expedition takes up a pretty large percentage of the book (and it's fascinating), but there is also a good deal of focus on her earlier life, and her fate following the trip that made her famous. As mentioned before, VERY well researched and written in a manner that brings the characters to life.
