https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256754.Portrait_of_a_Turkish_Family
This book depicts the life of one family living through WWI, and that family is Muslim and one belonging to the German-Ottoman side!
I have previously read many books about the Armenians; here we are presented with a family living on the other side.
The emphasis is more on the time-period of the first rather than the seconds world war because the central focus is on the author's childhood, his parents' and his grandmother's lives.You get a wonderful view of life on the Bosporus, life in Istanbul, life in Izmir – all these places that play a role in historical events.
Portrait of a Turkish Family is as close to time-travel as one can get--not the kind of time travel where one is merely an observer but the even more intense kind of time travel in which the reader becomes someone from another world.The book opens in Istanbul the fabled and romantic capital of a crumbling Ottoman Empire when Irfan Orga is just five years old; it reaches its poignant close in October 1941 as Orga, now a young pilot in the Turkish air force and ready to ship out to England, spends a last evening at home--remembering.
Osmanlı'nın son yıllarında İstanbul'da yaşayan varlıklı bir ailenin 1.
Bunları anlatırken bir yandan da, o dönemin İstanbul'unu, yaşlılarını, erkeklerini, kadınlarını ve çocuklarını anlatıyor.
Hatta belki bundan daha iyidir de, okuyalı çok uzun zaman oldu, karşılaştıracak kadar iyi hatırlamıyorumEn olumsuz yönü yazarın Türkiye'de doğup büyümüş olmasına rağmen kitabı ingilizce yazmış olması.
Onun dışında roman oryantalist bir hava taşıyor mu sorusu da aklımda ama bunu cevaplayabilecek kadar hakim değilim oryantalizm kavramına.
Yine de basit bir kıyasla Orhan Pamuk romanlarımda sezdiğimden daha azını sezdim diyebilirim.
Bunun dışında 8-10 tane daha ingilizce kitap yazmış o dönemde.
This book, A Portrait of a Turkish Family by Irfan Orga, was recommended by a friend and as soon as I looked at her copy I was sucked in.
A great feeling of "ole Stamboul" and fun to read if you are or have traveled there, because the author talks about all those streets and areas in Istanbul.
It is a great pre-read to Pamuk's book.
Orga's book shows the actual FALL and it's effect of the people of Turkey during that time, so it's interesting to really understand what and how much they lost.
But this story does not mention that holocaust; this wealthy Turkish family suffered its own devastating losses during the same time period and the author tells one of the most touching stories in beautiful English (a second language learned later in life) that I have read in a long time.
He captures his family and all the people in his life with such feeling and pathos that they will come alive for you.Irfan Orga writes through the child’s voice inside himself perfectly and tells this story through young eyes.
The losses for the people in Orga’s family are so great that this book will make you very angry with war.
A well written book on the life and times in a Turkish family. Traces the narrator's life from his younger days till later. Gives glimpses of how life was ( and possibly still is ) in Turkey.
Told by the eldest son of a wealthy Istanbul family, the story begins in the days of the early 20th century when women wore many jewels (and veils), the family had servants, and there was a large, pleasant garden to sit in drinking coffee.
All that is torn asunder by World War I, when the men in the family are called away to fight, food is scarce, fires break out from bombing, and finally the Ottoman Empire collapses.
Turkey fought on the German side during World War I and was ill-treated by its German occupiers.
This account of one family's experience lends insight into the general situation in Turkey while simultaneously making us care deeply about the family members themselves.
Perhaps it is only fully realized afterwards, when the child himself becomes adult and feels an old enmity, looking back to that withered day.p.158- 159I would like to quote a lovely description of a view of Istanbul by the author:And all down the Bosphor , down, down to the Black Sea, ran the tall trees and the old wood houses that suit the skyline so well.
I didn't read much of it while over there, we were too busy, but wish I had because I would have looked up some of the places where the author lived or went to school.
As it was I loved reading about a place in Istanbul and knowing just where it was and what it looked like.
Irfan Orga is one of those writers.
What an amazing life Irfan Orga had!
(When the story ends he isn't even married and it seemed like he never would.) Apparently his life, once the book ends, isn't exactly a bed of roses.
Bună de pus pe raft alături de Istanbulul lui Orhan Pamuk, Portretul unei familii turcești este povestea copilăriei și adolescenței viitorului scriitor și aviator militar Irfan Orga.Totul începe în anul 1913, într-un Istanbul idilic și pitoresc, scăldat de apele albastre ale Mării Marmara.
Irfan are 5 ani, trăiește cu părinții și bunicii săi înstăriți într-o casă frumoasă, are doică neagră, servitoare și bucătăreasă.
This is truly one of the most spellbinding reads I have ever had.
From the begging you are drawn into another world, a world we find it difficult to imagine now, Ottoman Istanbul, as the first world war is about to change everything forever.We see the dramatic and heartbreaking changes through the eyes of a young boy born into a rich family, as the war turns Istanbul and their happy carefree lives upside down.
I really cannot do this book justice and is a must read for anyone interested in culture or history told by those who experienced it.
If this book was written today it would be considered a masterpiece.
Öykü güzel, anlatım güzel. Ateş Orga'nın "SonSöz"ü hepsinden güzel. Arın Bayraktaroğlu (Çevirmen)'nun notları ise ayrıca zenginlik katmış kitaba.Ben bayıldım...
Portrait of a Turkish Family is another Turkey/WWI story, a memoir, which I allowed myself to be talked into buying by a bookseller in Istanbul despite its price--about $24 for a paperback?
The Turkish family in question is a moneyed one, or was until WWI came along.
The other, the central element really, is the alienation of the author, Irfan Orga, and his mother.
The more poverty besets the family, the more distant his mother becomes and the more he resents it, and this continues into adulthood when Orga and his brother have both achieved professional careers and the poverty is over.
At first, I found it quite uninteresting but when the time came for me to read 150 pages in three days, it became very interesting.
;) No, this book is a very good read.
It is by no means a happy-go-lucky story about a boy and his family.
The first word someone in my class said about this book was "depressing" and I agree but such is the purpose.
War was, and is, not happy or beautiful--it is sad and depressing.
Orga's writing isn't the best, most of our class agreed on this, but he portrayed his family with beautiful detail.
An incredibly insightful look at the family life of Irfan Orga, from the detached air of weathly family with servants who do everything to the desperate requirement of his mother and grandmother to learn everything required to survive when they lose everything and must fend for themselves.
It is refreshing as always to have the inside view and this is as much a memoir of the effect on a young child and a young man of a mother who didn't warm to a maternal role.
Brilliant and the perfect book to close my own chapter of reading Turkish literature for now.My full review here at Word by Word.
"Hayatımı anlatsam roman olur" sözünün gerçekleştiği kitaplardan biri.. Bugünü yaşayan bizler geçmişte aynı topraklarda, aynı dili, aynı kültürü paylaşan önceki nesilleri anlama fırsatı buluyoruz. Uzun soluklu bir kitaptı. Daha başka birçok hüzünlü hikayeden sadece bir tanesiydi belki de. İnsanların tahammül sınırlarının nerelere kadar dayanabileceğini ve dayanamadığı yerde nasıl sağlıklarından olup, hayatlarının eriyip gittiğine şahit oluyoruz. Ve açlığın, yokluğun günümüz tüketim çağında bazıları için ne kadar anlamsız ve bazıları için nasıl baki kaldığını düşündüğünüzde dünyanın bir türlü bize yetemediğini ve bize sunduklarını adaletli paylaşamadığımızı görüyoruz.
I graduated from Kuleli which İrfan Orga graduated from too. I can clearly understand what he felt when he was a cadet in military high school. And it's an honor! Thinking that you also walked on same road that İrfan Orga walked on,and maybe eating at the same mess hall or sitting on the same chair etc. effected me deeply. I felt as if I was carrying whole of history of Kuleli Military High School on my shoulders. I'm proud of it.
Well that got a little bit wave the flag toot the nationalist horn towards the end, but I guess you would too if you weren't Ataturk's favorite person. Review soon!
I have never been a big fan of memoirs but this book made me realize my mistake.
This book is a window into the life of a Turkish family from the time of last Sultans to the WW2 through the Ataturk Era from the eyes of a young boy.
It is also a very powerful anti-war book without being political or even trying.
Most of the books & movies regarding wars are based on the front.
Either they talk of the actual war or its impact on those directly involved that is the soldiers but I have never read a book about the families of those soldiers.
A book about loss.
Poignant and extremely detailed in it's descriptions.
It is perhaps one of the saddest books I've ever read.
Loss is experimented in several forms, each one more tearsome than the previous one.
It is also a story of fraternal alienation, of guilt and uncondemned hatred inside men's primary sphere of identity's construction.
And, as if this wasn't enough, it is a prolific account of the historical transformation of the Middle East's most unorthodox country.
It is the arab consciousness and it's debacle between tradition and modernity.
And a portrait of Istambul with exquisite attention to details.
I found this book superb.
One of the best memoirs I have read, this story of a family living through WWI and the aftermath in Istanbul was really hard to put down. This book is over 50 years old but is very readable from the first chapter. The author was the oldest son in a family that was nearly destroyed but survived the violent end of the Ottoman Empire, through determination and resourcefulness. The author went on to write travel books and cookery books about Turkey, and his understanding and appreciation of Turkish culture is an important element in this book.
Read Orga's family story while visiting Istanbul and his description of life before, during and after WWI were all the more vivid. Remembering that this was completed in the 1940's for publication in 1950, it is remarkably fresh in its detail of family life in and around the city during that time. I am grateful that the Galeri Kayseri bookstore commissioned a new printing of this title and recommended it to me.
A poignant tale of a prosperous Turkey family torn asunder by the First World War and the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. Orga is a captivating narrator, at turns playful, poetic, and melancholic. His mother Şevkiye is a fascinating and tragic character – a woman who foreshadows the social reforms of the Atatürk era and shoulders her family through hunger, poverty and loss, enclosing within her the mental scars of these experiences. A fine addition to the literature on the loss of empire.
Really, really interesting. I read this as part of a WW1 challenge, though it works as a biography even without the war. A different viewpoint from Turkey and one that I enjoyed learning about. Oh and beautifully written in English by a man that could barely speak the language, impressive.
Çok severek ve merakla okudum, yazar Cumhuriyet öncesi, Osmanli döneminin sonlari ile Cumhuriyetin ilk yıllarını çok iyi gözlemlemiş ve akici üslübuyla aktarmiş, ortaya içe dokunan ve akıllarda kalacak bir öykü çıkmış.
Perfect for a trip to Istanbul, a well written memoir that spans 1900 to the 50s.
will write about later...
The death of the Ottoman Empire & birth of Atatürk's Republic as seen through the eyes of a Turkish family.
I loved this book. It's a true story of an Ottoman family living before the collapse of the Empire and after. The author brought the characters alive for me.
A Master Piece,,,
