https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827327.Riders_in_the_Chariot
It’s precisely through the prism of these marginalized characters that the reader can discern a plain philosophy, maybe idealistic but of a vast scope, of bounding the transcendental with the simple and supple natural order of things, bestowing the dispossessed with blinding clairvoyance in the abiding “status quo” of self-sacrifice over the rulers of a rigid social hierarchy.The voices of White’s characters combine inner perceptions delivered in stream of consciousness technique and dialogues assimilating the theatrical satire that provide the narrative with an inexpressible musical tonality that is rather intuited than fully grasped.
Since each character is given almost 100 pages of back-story, the novel is by no means confined in place or period either; the section set in Germany between the wars can hold its own with the best Holocaust writing anywhere, with particular insights into Jewish social, intellectual, and spiritual life.
Miss Hare, the faded aristocrat, is clearly mad; Himmelfarb, the professor, now chooses to work in a menial job, without possessions or other signs of status; Mrs. Godbold, the washerwoman, lives with her many daughters in a tumbledown shack; Alf Dubbo, the half-caste painter, works by day as a janitor and is given to fits of drunkenness.
I prefer inspired eccentrics to Nobel Laureates, but then Patrick White proves that one can be both.This is a book about the burdens and dangers of being a visionary; the Chariot of the title coming from Ezekiel and representing a palpable vision of a higher order of reality.
Oddly, I lost this book just before I finished it, and just as everything in the book was falling apart - main characters dying, the mansion crumbling, paintings being thoughtlessly sold off - and just as I was wondering if there would be a Resurrection in keeping with the overall Christ-allegory.
And show me at the same time how to distinguish with certainty between good and evil."p109 Happy are the men who are able to tread transtional paths, scarcely looking to left or to right and without distinguishing an end.p145 ...faith is never faith unless it is to be wrestled with.p222 To abandon self is, after all, to accept the course that offers.p261 Everything has always happened before.
Except to children.p341 I would like to persuade you that the simple acts we have learnt to perform daily are the best protection against evil.p345 ...he shuddered to realiuze that there could never be an end to the rescue of men from the rubble of their own ideas.p485 Children and chairs conversed with him intimately.
An aborigine painter, of sorts, is drawn to him, fulfilling the agony of painting Christ.
Who brings the light?
Who brings the sun?
The Chariot of the title is a constant presence.
And yet, the Riders in the book title are absent from the painting.
I could jabber for a long time about what that means, about the colors of heaven, the driving forces of history, the reader filling a void; but it'd just be me, well, jabbering.Instead, let me tell you that near the end of the book there is a crucifixion.
Never actually arriving, but that was to be expected, since she had become all-pervasive: scent sound, the steely dew, the blue glare of white light off rocks.
A modern mediocrity arrives at the end of the war, along with streams of refugees and migrants.
The opening scenes harken to The Sound and the Fury and later details conjure Absalom, Absalom!.
Whereas the original sin of Faulkner's South was slavery, a misdeed which poisoned the history, the land and the souls of Southerners, Patrick White isn't that specific, but finds the hollow idols of postwar Australia to be sufficiently damning.
The world is a great sum of the infinitesimally small human beings and the majority of the little souls remain unnoticed and unobserved.But in the eye of the beholder the world often turns into a thing quite different from what it may seem.“When Himmelfarb was able once more to raise his head, he realized that, for the second time in his life, he had fainted, or God had removed him, mercifully, from his body.
I cannot begin to see the expression of the faces.”These are the souls of little men that stand tall and they are those who deserve to ride in the chariot of God.
Four residents of the city—an eccentric heiress, a tormented Jewish refugee from post-Nazi Europe, a big-hearted and long-suffering working class washerwoman, and an alcohol-ravaged but artistically gifted aboriginal—are united by the baleful ghosts of their past, and a shared vision of the Chariot, the redemption offered through faith by a forgiving God. Surrounded by actors motivated by pettiness, malice, ignorance and fear, the four individuals—haunted by glimpses of the Chariot and pursuing their archetypal personal salvation—come together in the final act in a lovingly-rendered testimony to human grace.White deftly illuminates how very many of our fears and doubts are engendered by guilt—survivor's guilt, the guilt of being different, the guilt of disobedience, guilt from violence and from succumbing to the endless temptations proffered to both flesh and spirit.
White is fascinating: he has precisely two tools in his kit, and when they're working, I couldn't care less about his failure to, you know, structure his books or think through his incredibly vague ideas.
Confusion had robbed it of its grace, making it a blunt thing, of ruffled gills." The flipping and flopping between incredible precision--plump, shiny, maculated, ruffled gills--and intentional generalities--bird colour, a blunt thing; the way the initial hards cs pile up higher and higher, and then, just when you think you're done, he throws in one more to start the final sentence, and then lets you relax into grace: not many can pull that off.
I think this book may be better as I mull it over than it was while reading.We follow 4 characters as they interact with each other, and get their personal biographies as well.
I'd be reading along, trying to understand (I determined to give this up three times), then there would be a sentence of such beauty and wisdom and clarity that I knew I needed to struggle on.
But it seems I'm not really done at all, because it's in my head, roiling around, trying to make me understand.
Mrs Jolley specialises in working for elderly spinsters in need of a friend to whom a fortune might be bequeathed, but she is taken aback by Xanadu with its fallen masonry, mould covered interiors and invading plant life.
Wow, I feel parallaxed.Some books I dread finishing for two reasons. First, obviously I don't want it to end, and second, with a rare book like this, when it comes to getting down some thoughts, the task overwhelms with a sense of paralysis. Riders in the Chariot is an experience similar to revisiting that high back in my youth in discovering another level I never knew existed, like discovering Hermann Hesse and Alan Watts.
What to say about this epic visionary masterpiece? So heartfelt, original, challenging, it really is a heroic work that daemands heroism from the reader too as with most great books. It takes you to the edges of human perception, and although christian in much of its symbolism, its message is universal: that goodness in human society is either shunned or ignored and that evil manifests itself in those who consider themselves among the righteous.
Toward the end of the novel in particular, religious allegories and Christlike comparisons abound.David Malouf writes in the introduction that White wanted to give this novel "the textures of music, the sensuousness of paint," which he certainly does.
And sometimes there are agreeably clever, but not entirely sensical, sentences like:Indeed, her breasts would not have existed if it had not been for coming to an agreement with her vest.I suppose my main problem with the novel is that it's hard on the reader to get through, or process, this much unrelenting virtuosity.
Liszt's Spanish Rhapsody, for example, is 13 and a half minutes of musical virtuosity, which is an absorbable amount.
A stunningly brilliant book.
This is a study of four people that share a common vision of the riders in the chariot, a quote from the book of the prophet Ezekiel; Miss Hare, the aged maiden lady and sole possessor of the old house and estate of Xanadu; Mordechai Himmelfarb , a Jew who has passed through Europe and the holocaust to end his days in Australia; Alf Dubbo the aborigine painter who sees and paints in visions and carries the Old Testament with him; and Mrs Goldbud the good woman and washerwoman who befriends them all.
other characters appear and add their own pieces to the story and illuminate other facets of the novel that Mr. White wants to get across.
A wonderful wonderful book.
It is deeply illuminating of the Australian character.
I always love well-crafted multi-narrator tales where the narrators and characters all relate and intersect in surprising and interesting ways (like Zadie Smith's White Teeth, for example), and White does that well.
I am sure there were allusions and subtext and subtleties that I missed, particularly religious ones, but what captivated me were the characters and their narrative voices.
A beautifully crafted story that shows how society at its worst can torture the best people, and despite some of the mystical or religious tones of the book, the flaws, atrocities, and discrimination that White displays are all too human and concrete.
Each time I read it I discover something new.
Patrick White has an uncanny ability to capture deep, spiritual meanings in the most unlikely places.
He finds the sacred in the derelict, and joy amongst the ruins.And he conveys what one senses to be the essence of character and place in often what seems a casual, off-hand manner.The prose sometimes takes on the form of an abstract painting so that some descriptions at first seem absurd and meaningless; but they never are.
It's taken me a while to get to reading Patrick White - and so worth the wait. This book is filled with the most poignant and inspiring writing. White's use of language constantly brings me gems of surprise ... inspired by fine experience of and engagement in the world and the senses.

The book's title comes from the drunken utterances of Mary's father during a very disturbing scene at the beginning of the novel, "Who are the riders in the Chariot, eh, Mary?
Patrick White's over-arching theme is that everyone shares the chariot.
There are the poor souls, at rest, all naked again, as they were in the beginning." This is perhaps the autobiographical hopes of Patrick White, a man who never felt completely at home in his own nation, or with his own life, but who still hoped to be a rider in the chariot.
This book is nothing like that.
I don't think this book is for everyone, however there's something to experience while reading this peculiar text.Miss Hare, Ms. Godbold, Alf Dubbo, and Himmelfarb were some of the most interesting characters I've ever read in a book.
Each of their stories have a sense of suffering in them, each character is an outsider, they all have different lives-yet they all come together somehow.
This book is peculiar, awkward, and it doesn't make sense at times but something about it made me keep reading--it's unique, it's something to experience.
Last year I gave up on 2 books: Thackeray's impenetrable Vanity Fair and Edith Wharton's surprisingly (to me) indifferent Age of Innocence.
I was hoping, I'm still hoping, that this year I would keep my unfinished reads to a minimum.
As it is, Riders in the Chariot, by Nobel Prize winner Patrick White is the first.
I sincerely hope it will also be last but we'll see.
It's not as impenetrable as Vanity Fair, and much more interesting than Age of Innocence, but it is still hard work.
I gave up page 252.
White writes poetry obscured as prose. One forgets how beautiful language can be until someone like White crafts so beautiful a book as Riders... Not my favorite. Nothing will displace The Vivisector, but the rich dense detail of Riders has an empathy for its characters that was missing in White's portrait of the artist. Reading Riders yanked me away from the second-rate fiction, too much of it bad science fiction, to which I had chained myself. I was liberated and able to read again.
Equal parts annoying, depressing and upsetting.
When I read books like this, I really want to know more about the author.
I mean, what happened to him?!
To be fair, Patrick White has written other books that have been enjoyed by people I respect.
So while it is possible I might like something else he has written, I'm gun shy now and I have a long list of books I really want to read.On a positive note, I love the cover art.
I have seen the original in the Musee D'Orsay and it is a lovely painting.
So thumbs up on that!
Patrick White's sense of language is sublime, and his understanding of the human condition is sympathetic, deep and unyielding in its clarity. To ride in the chariot suggests a capacity to reach a spiritual plane beyond that on which we, conventionally tethered to the earth, can aspire. I was moved time and again by the travails of White's riders. They endured through his witness, through his art. Read this and be devastated, but with a deeper kinship to humanity.
After the war he set up home with his gay lifelong partner in suburban Sydney, many moons before the mardi gras era.In “Riders in the Chariot” Patrick White places the outsider on center stage.
The four outsiders whose fates are destined to intertwine are privy to religious revelation; all four resonating strongly to the prophet Ezekiel’s vision of the golden chariot – possibly a glorious means of being transported from their earthly bonds and suffering.
While White acknowledges the good of mankind as embodied by the Christian benevolence of the aptly named Mrs. Godbold, the evil of mankind as experienced by Himmelfarb the Jew, in both Nazi Germany and post war Australia is what dominates the authors bleak vision of mankind.
Four disparate characters, unknown or little known to each other, live or come to live, in a village near Sydney in the years following World War 2.
Other people mostly treat them as outcasts, a position they come to accept, only near the end finding grains of comfort in each other.White's prose is elegant, thoughtful and attractive - a few examples follow:"Religion, like a winter overcoat, grew oppressive and superfluous as spring developed into summer, and the natural sources of warmth were revealed.
to make the attempt which demands the ultimate in strength" (p480)This is outstanding prose, but did not enable this reader to feel strongly the pull of the story's current.
I gave this book 3 stars for originality and unusual subjects.
Some of it was brilliant but other parts were trying too hard to be brilliant.
It was overworked in places and that's when it fell down for me.
The characters were interesting and kept you wanting to know more about them.
But they were not convincing as flesh and blood people but rather contrivances to convey the same messages over and over again.
I think the book revealed more about the author than anything else.
Still, the mark of a good book is to remember it after reading the last page.
So that's on my to-read list.
This was my first interaction with Patrick White.
The book is complex and his analysis of the characters savage and ruthless (on par maybe with the grand master Dostoyevsky?).
Set in a small Australian town in the early 60s it tells the story of a few very unlikely characters and how their lives become intertwined.
Racial tension, anti-semiticism, child abuse and all types of bigotry rear their ugly heads in this one.
Its a large piece, but once you get going you are propelled onto the end.
The ending was not predictable!
White's other 2 works that come highly recommended include Voss and Vivisector.

