https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/654054.The_Lost_King_of_Oz_Oz
Search for Ozma's Dad Involves Goose, Witch, and Pompous PachydermRuth Plumly Thompson ultimately wrote far more Oz books than L.Frank Baum, who dreamed up most of the famous characters.
We even get back together with evil old Mombi (from "The Land of Oz"--Baum's second book) who is plotting to get back her magic and take over.
Pajuka became a goose, but nobody knew where the old King had gone.
I have liked all the Oz books since I was a kid, and the adventures here are up to the usual.
I don't know, maybe I need a little Oz break again (I'm taking it right now, actually; I finished this book almost two weeks ago.
The next one is The Hungry Tiger, though, and they go to Rash, which I remember being cool, and Betsy Bobbin is featured, and I love her!
"'Everything, everything's so queer,' murmured the little Queen, looking appealingly at Betsy and Trot." ARRRRRRRGGGGGGHHHHHH.I really like Tora, "never listen[s] to unpleasant conversations" because he can detach his ears.That's all.
Ruth Plumly Thompson includes all the elements that we want from a continuation of the Oz series.
She gives us more details concerning the history of Oz before Dorothy's visit.
We had heard some things about the fairy Lurline and Ozma's father, but no further explanation of where Ozma's father was.She also provides an answer to a previously unanswered question.
Everyone who comes to Oz is frozen at whatever age they are when they get there.
Dorothy has never aged.
In this book, Dorothy pays a brief visit to the U.S., specifically Hollywood, and we get the answer.This was one of Plumly's best contributions to the Oz series.
One of the more predictable Oz books I've read. Once again about 10 characters are thrown into the mix, two or three go on adventures and have mishaps, and the very predictable Lost King is revealed at the end. I haven't used my speed-reading skills much since I got my Kindle, but I kicked it into overdrive and read this one in about twenty minutes, which is about all the time it deserved.
Humorous, fantastic, a little shallow. My first introduction to Oz; my second encounter was the film. I loved all the characters, even Mombi, and revered each illustrated plate in my mother's copy when I was growing up.
Nowhere close to the charm, magic, and inventiveness of the originals. These books should not be considered Oz canon. This had the potential to be so much more.
Pastoria was King of Oz before the Wizard, but no one knew where he had disappeared to.
