https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67939.Bilbo_s_Last_Song
This is a lesser-known Tolkien gem about a bittersweet ending for Bilbo as he makes his way to the Grey Havens.
He has let the ring go and is old, weary and tired of this life - and so he writes a song to say goodbye.I can't tell you how much this little book means to me.
It is the book that brings a sense of finality to Lord of the Rings as Bilbo is the hobbit who started it all.
I hear the call.The ship's beside the stony wall.Foam is white and waves are grey;Beyond the sunset leads my way.Foam is salt, the wind is free;I hear the rising of the Sea.Courtesy of Jen's mini reviews
"Farewell to Middle-earth at last.I see the Star above my mast!”" This is a touching little poem written by Tolkien in the guise of Bilbo himself as he prepared to leave middle-earth via the Grey Havens into the west. It’s like a final goodbye, a drawing of the curtain, to Tolkien’s vast and beautiful fantasy world. It’s very short, and it’s very simple because it’s a song. It’s also available online for free and it’s not hard to find, but what makes this edition really special are the illustra
"Farewell to Middle-earth at last.I see the Star above my mast!”"
This is a touching little poem written by Tolkien in the guise of Bilbo himself as he prepared to leave middle-earth via the Grey Havens into the west.
It’s like a final goodbye, a drawing of the curtain, to Tolkien’s vast and beautiful fantasy world.
It’s very short, and it’s very simple because it’s a song.
It’s also available online for free and it’s not hard to find, but what makes this edition really special are the illustrations.
I love having it on my bookshelf, though I think for many it will be a little superfluous.
Bilbo's Last Song (Middle-Earth Universe), J.R.R. Tolkien, Pauline Baynes (Illustrator)Bilbo's Last Song (At the Grey Havens)Day is ended, dim my eyes,but journey long before me lies.Farewell, friends!
I hear the call.The ship's beside the stony wall.Foam is white and waves are grey;beyond the sunset leads my way.Foam is salt, the wind is free;I hear the rising of the Sea.Farewell, friends!
I seek the West,and fields and mountains ever blest.Farewell to Middle-earth at last.I see the Star above my mast!تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و چهارم ماه آگوست سال 2015 میلادیا.
This one is more about the artwork and how Bilbo recalls his adventures before leaving for Grey Havens with the elves at the end of Lord of the Rings.
Er... spoilers para El Señor de los Anillos ... y supongo que algo de El Hobbit.Un poema de despedida.El arte es bello, y refleja escenas del Señor de los Anillos y del Hobbit como rememorando la vida de Bilbo.Nota: Me encontré esto, me dan ganas de llorar al oirlo con música: Stephen Oliver - Bilbo's Last Song (from the BBC Radio adaptation of The Lord of the Rings) Significativa es la línea: Lands there are to west of West, where night is quiet and sleep is rest. Poor Bilbo, nigthmares probabl
spoilers para El Señor de los Anillos ...
y supongo que algo de El Hobbit.Un poema de despedida.El arte es bello, y refleja escenas del Señor de los Anillos y del Hobbit como rememorando la vida de Bilbo.Nota: Me encontré esto, me dan ganas de llorar al oirlo con música: Stephen Oliver - Bilbo's Last Song (from the BBC Radio adaptation of The Lord of the Rings) Significativa es la línea:
Lands there are 	to west of West,
where night is quiet 	and sleep is rest.
Poor Bilbo, nigthmares probably don't allow him to rest...
Beautiful illustrations to go with this beautiful poem!
تبدیل کردن یک شعر حداکثر یک صفحهای به یک "کتاب" سی و دو صفحهای، عجیبه. لذت بردن ازش عجیب تر :)
تبدیل ‌کردن یک شعر حداکثر یک صفحه‌ای به یک "کتاب" سی و دو صفحه‌ای، عجیبه. لذت بردن ازش عجیب تر :)
This was a short poem about Bilbo's journey to the Grey Haven's. Is that a spoiler? Meh... The illustrations reveal flashbacks of his previous journeys as he prepares to depart Middle Earth. I'm a huge sucker for anything Middle Earth/LOTR and love Tolkien's poems. This was a gift given to me for my birthday and love looking at the illustrations now and again. A great add to any nerd's I mean....any Tolkien fanatic around.  Farewell to Middle-earth at last, I see the Star above your mast!
Such an easy read. I love this book. I guess I am still,hopped up on the excitement of seeing The Hobbit. This very small book is very big with creating an imaginative world where Bilbo is sharing his last days in Middle Earth. When I was reading this book it made me think of the beautiful song Annie Lennox wrote for Return of The King ( it won the Academy Award for Best Song; rightfully so.) It just goes to show; that a book doesn't have to be layered in overly wrought prose to have an impact.
A pleasant and delightful short poem. The illustrations definitely pair well with with the lyrics in evoking those bittersweet nostalgic emotions that are so much a part of The Lord of the Rings; especially when you realize you've come to the end
The perfect way to conclude the series. Short, with beautiful drawings, and very emotional mood.
For pretty much as long as I'm able to remember Bilbo Baggins has always been my favorite fictional character ever written. My love and adoration for him only intensifies with every Tolkien book that I read.  I'm not going to start explaining how much he actually means to me because then we'll be still sitting here tomorrow. I can guarantee you that. This book toyed with my heartstrings and broke a few of them.Day is ended, dim my eyes,But journey long before me lies.Farewell, friends! I hear th
This book toyed with my heartstrings and broke a few of them.Day is ended, dim my eyes,But journey long before me lies.Farewell, friends!
I hear the call.The ship's beside the stony wall.Foam is white and waves are grey;Beyond the sunset leads my way.Foam is salt, the wind is free;I hear the rising of the Sea.Farewell, friends!
The sails are set,The wind is east, the moorings fret.Shadows long before me lie,Beneath the ever-bending sky,But islands lie behind the SunThat I shall raise ere all is done;Lands there are to west of West,Where night is quiet and sleep is rest.Guided by the Lonely Star,Beyond the utmost harbour-bar,I’ll find the heavens fair and free,And beaches of the Starlit Sea.Ship, my ship!
A short picture book published after Tolkien’s death. The poem is presented one couplet per two pages amid illustrations by Pauline Baynes from both The Hobbit and the journey to Grey Havens from The Return of the King.The poem is not Tolkien’s best. But the illustrations will be recognizable, perhaps only slightly less readily than those by the Brothers Hildebrandt, as classics of Tolkien stories. Baynes also illustrated C. S. Lewis’ The Chronicles of Narnia. Pleasant to find something “new” by Tolkien.
"Day is ended, dim my eyes,but journey long before me lies.Farewell, friends!
I hear the call.The ship's beside the stony wall.Foam is white and waves are grey;beyond the sunset leads my way.Foam is salt, the wind is free;I hear the rising of the Sea.Farewell, friends!
The sails are set,the wind is east, the moorings fret.Shadows long before me lie,beneath the ever-bending sky,but islands lie behind the Sunthat I shall raise ere all is done;lands there are to west of West,where night is quiet and sleep is rest.Guided by the Lonely Star,beyond the utmost harbour-bar,I'll find the heavens fair and free,and beaches of the Starlit Sea.Ship, my ship!
I seek the West,and fields and mountains ever blest.Farewell to Middle-earth at last.I see the Star above my mast." <3 <3
The illustrations are what turn this slight poem into a book- but even with the illustrations, it remains one of the lesser of Tolkien's poems. The pictures are dreamy, lovely, and evocative. Clearly illustrated by someone deeply familiar with JRRT, there's a certain reverence to each page. The poem itself is a little melancholy, a little overwrought- in other words, vintage Bilbo.
Beautiful. Short but delightful.
This was so good that I read it twice. :)April 5, 2018 - I changed my rating from a four star one to a five star rating. It is now on my favorites shelf.

¡qué hermosas ilustraciones! Me encantó este pequeño poema y amé los dibujos, todos super bonitos y con muchos detalles.
read again, just because.too, too beautiful <3
What made me decide to write a review anyway is the content of the book, the beauty of it's pictures and prose, and the insight it gives the reader into the reflections of Bilbo, and thus Tolkien himself, about a long life.
In the illustrations, Baynes gives us the pictorial story of an old Hobbit looking back at a life that was at times boring, fun, even dangerous, but also quite worthwhile.
Nevertheless, it does give a unique perspective of just what it meant for Bilbo to look back on his long life, as he prepared for his voyage departing Middle-Earth.
“Farewell to Middle-Earth at last, I see the Star above your mast!” This exquisitely beautiful book is a real treasure, with such wonderful full-color illustrations by Pauline Baynes and sparkling silver lettering on the cover.
The jewel-like paintings by Pauline Baynes (Tolkien’s favorite illustrator of his works), within this book tell two stories simultaneously ~ with the larger illustrations depicting the journey that brings the Ring-bearers and the company of Elves to the Grey Havens and the beginning of the final voyage across the sea.
Nowadays, we are most of us blessed with parents who live on to our own middle age, and friends who grow up alongside us.
we are not bound for ever to the circles of the world, and beyond them is more than memory, Farewell!"Is death catastrophe or Eucatastrophe?
Believing, hoping, despite all the evidence of his life, the latter, Tolkien produced The Lord of the Rings and all the wide realms of Middle-earth.
Pascal's Wager and Puddleglum's vow hold true: better to live as a Narnian, even if there is no Narnia, for the black-sailed ship has no waters in its wake.
I didn't know about this beautiful book and it is old, first published in 1974, illustrations copyright in 1990.
The official review says that Tolkien thought it an epilogue to the adventures.
Bilbo is leaving for the Grey Havens, and as the poem moves through his thoughts, Pauline Baynes has illustrated one large scene and several small parts.
Those paintings are gorgeous.
The flap says that Baynes was one of Tolkien's favorite artists and she also was asked to illustrate C.S. Lewis' The Chronicles of Narnia.
For those who have loved these stories, this will be loved, too, if not already known.
A nostalgia-infused poetic reflection by Bilbo on the end of his life. It's an extremely slim volume, but the detail and color of the illustration makes it one you'll read about four times in a row. Something good to have on the shelf and come back to from time to time.
Thanks to Linda (of the blog Teacher Dance) for letting me know about this little gem of a poem. It was nice to revisit the hobbits again even if it was to see Bilbo off. Tolkien's poem is beautifully illustrated by Pauline Baynes with detailed explanations at the end of the book.
Beautifully illustrated....
Nothing short of delightful. ❤️
Leer a Tolkien siempre es un encanto, pero la verdadera estrella de este pequeño libro es Pauline Diana Baynes.
A new verse by Tolkien, attributed to Bilbo. Illustrations not very distinctive.
