https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1338274.The_Case_of_the_Crooked_Candle
Both drivers stopped and the one from the passenger car wrote down the name of the company that owned the truck.
The ease with which Mason got money made him even more curious and he dug even deeper.
One noticeable fact about this book: the initial ones of the series ended at the moment a person who is to become Mason's client in the next book comes in.
So without further ado let me present you an episode of Scooby-Doo starring Perry Mason as Fred, Della Street as Daphne, Paul Drake as Shaggy, and Lieutenant Tragg as Velma.
I do enjoy these old, moldy Perry Mason mysteries, and I'm not sure why.
Maybe because they're simple (in a way, certainly not plot-wise).
Mason is always straight-up and forthright, always ready to stand up for the underdog.
And there's Della, his faithful puppy...I mean, secretary.
And can you figure out whodunit?
Sure!
It's not rocket science!
All you have to do is figure out how the tide and a listing boat affected a corpse, what a bloody shoeprint means on a staircase, and why a crooked candle is important.On second thought, it is rocket science.
I remember my parents watching the old "Perry Mason" series reruns when I was growing up so I was looking forward to actually reading my first Perry Mason book.
A very astute lawyer, Perry Mason is able to overcome all obstacles saving his innocent client from a wrongful conviction of murder.
His foe, the vengeful prosecuting attorney, Hamilton Burger, who just wants to finally win one case against the esteemed advocate without being made to look like an idiot will try every trick in the book to get a conviction.
Will he finally be able to outwit Perry Mason?
I definitely want to read more of these classic books.
I thought Perry Mason books were out of print. The only Perry Mason books I have read are either online or by buying ancient yellowed/browned pages paperbacks from second hand book stores. This was the only book of Perry Mason that I found on the Readings website, so it was immediately in my cart. I was really craving some Mason style legal thriller so I completed this one in one evening. While it was a work night, I couldn't help but continue reading late into the night to finish it.
I feel like I'll be reading a lot more of Gardner's Books.this was fantastic it kept my brain whirling but didn't over inform me and just make me bored :)
***.In this case for Perry Mason, he uncovers a gambit on the part of several prominent business and financial leaders to buy up land for an intended use for grazing sheep.
Mason suspects that there is value on the land related to either oil or mineral riches.
When push comes to shove, and the case gets to the courts, Mason seizes on a clue that is not apparent to anyone else involved in the murder or the land deal: a crooked candle found aboard a yacht.
It’s a weird clue, but Mason makes the most of it and ultimately uses it to get his client off of all charges.
I've been reading Gardner's Perry Mason books off and on for many years.
That, and the ingenious plots, are why I read Perry Mason.On the whole, the ones written by 1950 are the best.
She tells Mason a complicated story that establishes an alibi for her father at the time of the murder, involving a mysterious meeting at a motel.
Della and Perry manage to get off the boat soon before it explodes!The great complexity of the story is due to the fact that more than one person has been contriving an alibi.
From the Perry Mason show we learned that TV-Tragg is an incompetent boob, albeit an extremely smug one, who never once arrests the correct person.
DA Burger at least won half his cases since Mason handed him the real murderer on a silver platter.
Book-Tragg is a very different character.
In one scene he holds Della against her will, incommunicado, and Mason has to threaten him with legal action before he releases her.
Justice is served after much talking, only I never did understand the point about the defendant's shoe print in the companionway.
What about...?" It's the characters that make both mediums work.
Excellent one among all the perry mason series ! The way he knocked out the case just by judging on a candle's angle is just brilliant. It gives a different feel while reading about the world where less electronic equipments but more IQ and logic is involved in solving a case ! Loved it thoroughly !
While most mysteries novels are Meh, IMO! Perry Mason turned out to contain a totally outside-the-box aspect to mystery novella. Not to forget that Perry Mason is a lawyer and not your traditional PI. The Case of the Crooked Candle remains to be my all time favorite of the few Perry Mason novels I've read.
one of his toughest cases. everything's got to do with the timing of the tides and the position of the dead body. And yes, also the extent of the candle's burning. mason's reconstruction of the crime scene is the pivotal part of the novel, described to the last painstaking detail.
I don’t think I have read a Perry Mason in the last 12 years or so and it was fun to revisit.
A usual Perry Mason where the case starts off as a fender bender but leads to a murder.
Lt. Tragg is still not the friend he is in the later books.
Drake, Street and Mason are not the intimate friends they are in later so evidently one of the earlier books.
But all in all a very enjoyable read.
Does this make me want to read all the Perry Mason books again, maybe not.
This is a fun installment of the Perry Mason series.
(I did not quite achieve that so I have to admit I found it a bit complicated).
Anyway, you have the usual cast of characters playing their usual roles, including the pseudo-romantic connection between Perry and Della.One plot device which does not quite work for me is how the police once again suspect Mason of being a criminal.
Given his reputation and their experience with him, this seems to stretch credibility bit.I enjoy these older mysteries for their conveying cultural history.
And I had forgotten how common cuspidors were.Anyway, nothing memorable or significant here, but a fun, light read.

One of the earlier books in the Mason series, Della is more subordinate and secretarial here. It might be one of the books where Della's role gradually changes. The mystery in itself was rather complicated, what with so many nautical terms playing a major role. Finally, as always, the solution is oh so simple!This is the third book that I have read so far, which has a murder on a yacht. Makes one wonder if Gardner became a yatchsman around the time these books were written!
My goodness, the TV version with Raymond Burr et al made quite an impression on this reader's mind. Throughout the whole novel, I kept hearing the voices of Burr, Barbara Hale, William Hopper, and all the other regulars. The mystery had some good moments, but the discussion of tides and angles went on too long for my taste. Still, a nice diversion.
Only Erle Stanley Gardner could manage to get in that angle of the crooked candle and tides into this complicated murder mystery. Brilliant, as usual.
Dated but quick and interesting. Got quite detailed when they were accounting for the times of the tides. Liked the Candle idea.
Story handling is bit different. It kept disconnecting me from the flow.
I was going to read something else other than Perry Mason this time.
So, Burbank's daughter, Carol hires Mason to save his father and yet she and her father wants that he is placed at the yacht during that time rather than away from it, because he is trying to cover where he has actually been.
But soon, Mason looks into it and realizes that he is trying make fake alibi.This story has amazing courtroom drama, plus the concept is crooked candle is very interesting and well thought of.
Perry Mason's relationship with Della is a bit more ambiguous in the stories than it was in the television series.
This time he becomes casually involved with a couple who approach him because of an accident the husband was involved in.
Then Mason learns of another case where a woman is ill and a man who started to buy her land and didn't finish paying for it, but has continued to live there.
While meeting with the couple, Mason gets a call from a lawyer offering to settle the case immediately.
Then the daughter of the man the lawyer worked for approaches Mason on her father's behalf.
Disappointing.
I guess because I had watched many of the TV shows and heard so much about Gardner’s writing my expectations were quite high and this missed it.
The plot was good enough.
The characters were as bland as chalk.
Mason was perfect, and nearly clairvoyant.
Burger and underling were pointlessly petty and ridiculously stupid.
Della was blindly worshipful, and perpetually ready.
The Client is an obnoxious liar, but oh so smart.
Maybe the first Perry Mason stories were better.
It spoiled what little enjoyment was left after the poor writing and annoying characters.
It may sound like heresy, but…the TV show was better.
A superior entry, Mason depends on logic more than on courtroom pyrotechnics to free his client.
Jacques Barzun and Wendell Hertig Taylor include this in their collection of Fifty Classics of Crime Fiction, 1900-1950.Perry Mason is hired by Carol Burbank to prove her father did not kill a business associate on his yacht.
Mason gets the judge interested in the logic of the situation to offset the efforts of D.A. Hamilton Berger.
Perry does it again, this time using tide charts and geometry.
Perry and Della have an deep (though not detailed) romance going on.
Perry even has a moment of respectful sharing of information with Lt. Tragg.
At the same time, Gardner fills the book with dialog and limits the description, so the adaptors' job was not too difficult.
If you are a Perry Mason fan from ME-TV, it's fun to read the originals to see what was changed...and what remains just as Gardner wrote it in the 30s and 40s.
Pretty good mystery - though when it comes right down to it, a bit more obvious than most Perry Mason stories.
Highlights:Perry describes just how far his occasionally-mentioned associate Jackson takes his need for precedent.
Brief mention of the butter rationing during wartime.
Clients attempting to be more clever than Perry.Underdog gets a payday!Disappointments:None really, this book moved along at a nice clip and introduced me to some nautical realities I hadn't been aware of before (or, more accurately, that I had successfully forgotten between readings!).
It's a quality installment in the Perry Mason oeuvre, with almost a perfect combination of early-Perry action and actions with later-Perry elimination of racially offensive slang.


This is another fun mystery by Erle Stanley Gardner.
In this mystery the murder occurs on a yacht anchored offshore.
The questions are who did the murder and why, when was the murder committed, and how does one prove the answers to any of these questions.
The answers are in the times of the tides, the tilt of the yacht when it becomes mired in the mud, and where the body fell when the murder was committed.
Then Perry Mason conducts an experiment on the yacht by falling asleep on the yacht as the tides pass.
I really like the mysteries by Erle Stanley Gardner.
This Perry Mason mystery from the 1940s has some interesting twists and turns. However, it is not one of the more stellar stories from this era which is the golden era of the Perry Mason mysteries since the characters and the plot are not as well developed as in others. The story alludes to the ongoing World War, but really fails to deal with it since the War explains some of the events in the story; of course someone reading the book when it was issued would know that, while a later reader might not.
Enjoyable and not noticeably dated with regard to the lack of mobile phones, DNA testing and the like, though the casual racism was a little unsavoury. The plot worked though the solution was somewhat rushed and presented in a 'this was what the witness told the police' way by Mason to his associates. Publishing deadline looming? Also, two key characters had very similar names without the inevitable confusion being a plot device - I doubt a modern author would even try to get away with that. Having said that, I would still read others in the series.
