https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161054.Is_Sex_Necessary_or_Why_You_Feel_the_Way_You_Do
Take a look at the glossary at the back of the book as a small sampling of the laughs you will receive.
The forward by Updike offers some helpful information, such as the fact that E.B. White penned all the even numbered chapters, the forward, "Answers to Hard Questions", & ""A Note on the Drawings in This Book".
I love how Thurber & White capitalize these fictitious disorders and phenomena, making it seem official.
It was even more hilarious to read in E.B. White's forward how he had received letters from individuals that were actually convinced this book was expressing official scientific data, missing the satire idea altogether.
If you don't care what punctuation mark you put after "darling", the chances are you are in love--although you may just be uneducated, who knows?Chapter 3: A Discussion of Feminine Types Successfully to deal with a woman, a man must know what type she is.
Personally, I know but very little about them, nor if I had a vast knowledge would I know what to do with it.Chapter 4: The Sexual Revolution: Being a Rather Complete Survey of the Entire Sexual Scene The sexual revolution begins with Man's discovery that he was not attractive to Woman, as such.
I say this was my intention; but thus far I have been so unsuccessful in explaining the difference between love and passion that to go on would be to lay myself open to criticism.
So the book was kind of odd and confusing a lot of the time when it said it was talking about "sex" but actually wasn't.
(in My Life and Hard Times) it's just stupid and irritating when he lacks a basis of real events and just ends up improvising a lot of bullshit that doesn't really mean anything.
Eventually you get the feeling that you're just reading the ramblings of an eloquent but shallow man who is more interested in the contents of his own imagination than he is in writing anything with any real insight or substance.It's funny in places but ultimately sucks because it pretends to be a book full of insight and observation but instead substitutes these things for digression and imagination.
White and Thurber evidently thought folk like Freud and co.
However, this book doesn't really do a lot to explode them, so much as it offers a series of loosely-linked and mildly amusing but still ultimately sexist ripostes (e.g. male frigidity as an answer to the female kind, a pseudo-scientific take on the old saw that the way to a man's heart is through his stomach, and so on).
Some of the anecdotes are quite amusing parodies of case histories, though.
Part of the problem might be that the humour is a trifle too light and urbane--well, White and Thurber were New Yorker fixtures, after all--rather than really hard-edged in its satire.
There is also a glossary of terms with definitions written by White and Thurber, definitely worth the read.The one dated bit of information I found was the reference the authors made to men carving swastikas into wood as a way of keeping their minds off sex.
I’m glad I didn’t read this when I was young – it might have put me on the wrong track for years.
As it was, I had to compile my perception of sex from tattered fantasy novels and lurid novellas accidentally classified in the young adult section of my local library.
A surprisingly astute observation comes tucked away in the appendix: White explains the sketches represent the ‘the melancholy of sex’ and ‘the implausibility of animals’.
White explains most of the men in the drawings look frightened, but I disagree: I think they mostly look angry.
James Thurber and EB White are very funny people, and that's pretty much all you really need to know to pick up this book. Writing in 1929, this is their send-up of every single pop-psychology book about love, sex and relationships, and they frankly do a fantastic job of it. The basic argument behind the whole book is that sex is silly and love is ridiculous, so perhaps it's time to stop worrying so much and just go out and enjoy them both. An excellent lesson, if there ever was one.
An often hilarious piece of drollery that can ultimately lead to depression if you haven't gotten laid in awhile. In between fits of laughter, you start to realize that both you and the authors aggree that, not only is sex absolutely necessary, it should be our primary and paramount concern in life.I would advise not to read this book in a cold bed.
What a team! The reader gets what the reader expects from the two great humorists: James Thurber and E. B. White. I laughed until I was in pain. Is Sex Necessary was first written in l929, renewed at least seven times. One hundred years from now I suspect another renewal, and its humor and revelance will still apply. Have fun!
He should be made to understand that no man ever uses a guest towel, either in his own home or when he is a guest somewhere else, that they are hung up for lady guests to look at and are not to be disturbed.
It got so no baronial hall of the Middle Ages was free from these minnesingers.
Then he would illustrate the theme by not kissing the woman, but dancing off lightly down the hill, throwing his harp up into the air and catching it again as he went.‘What a nice young man,’ the baron’s wife would think, as she slowly turned and went in to bed.” (White, pgs.
White's essays, children's books, and Elements of Style writing tips are justifiably classics, but I can't say the same for his first book, Is Sex Necessary?.
Thurber and White were evidently parodying the pop-psychology and pop-sexuality books of the '20s, but because those books and ideas are no longer in vogue, the parody thereof mostly falls flat, too.
Schmalhausen, who seems to be White and Thurber's main target, doesn't even have a Wikipedia page.)Is Sex Necessary?
But despite the illustrious reputations of the men who wrote it, I too often found Is Sex Necessary?
Written in 1929 by EB White and James Thurber while both were working at The New Yorker, it's still lol funny, current, and sharp on the thousands of moments of humiliation and bewilderment in relationships.
An example from White: "The sexual revolution began with Man's discovery that he was not attractive to Woman, as such.
The result was that Man found it necessary to develop attractive personal traits to offset his dull appearance.
He learned to say funny things.
Not quite as funny as some of Thurber's later stuff, but there were still a lot of fun bits.P. 104 -- "When she arrived in New York and secured her unfurnished apartment (usually in West Fourth Street), her mental elation was so great and her activity in making parchment lamp shades so unabating that for the first couple of weeks she let sex go.
123 -- "I have talked with hundreds of children about the problem of educating their parents along sex lines.
The authors realize that this will be of no help to the sex novice, but neither is a cross section of the human body."
However, this 1929 work isn't about sex.
Well it is, sort of, but not in *that* way [read: no naughty bits!].
Yet, with compelling chapters like, "The Nature of American Male", "Claustrophobia, or What Every Young Wife Should Know" and "Frigidity in Men", there is plentiful opportunity for literal laugh-out-loud moments, alongside nuanced insights of gender relations.
Obviously stereotypes abound, and this was well before our current climate of political corrrected-ness (not that there wasn't any back then), but there are are so many nonsensical bits in here that you can't not still relate to, or laugh at.
But I guess people were eventually getting out of their Victorian slumbers.At any rate, Freud and others made sexuality into a science.
But both of the authors wrote for The New Yorker and so their humor is very dry.Just to give you a sampling, they mention that when a woman makes fudge, it’s a good way to entice a man.
It’s kind of like his own version of frigidity.If you’re in the mood for some New Yorker humor, that deals with sex, and mocks the science of sex, then this book is for you.
This is an early (1929) book in the careers of both James Thurber and E.B. White written shortly after they joined the New Yorker staff.If you're looking for sex in this book you are not going to find it.
At the time of the writing of this book, when sex was psychologically discovered and prominently written about, White and Thurber decided to do a spoof on these psychological publications.
Is Sex Necessary....is the result.Both authors are accomplished writers and I enjoyed reading the book.
I certainly do.I recommend this book to all readers, and I believe that the older you are the more you will enjoy it.
Originally published in 1929 and written by two famous children's books' authors before they were famous children's books' authors, this is a spoof of the then newfangled do-it-yourself psychology books, psychoanalysis in general, and the professional sex education movement.
It doesn't actually talk about sex.
It's completely tame and dances all around the subject, focusing instead on sex substitutes, types of females, misunderstandings of lilies and bluebirds, the foibles of frigid males with recessive knees, what children should tell their parents, etc.
It's light satire, at least by today's standards, and I often found myself somewhat bored, although it did manage to draw forth a few chuckles.
Flat-out hilarious, full of ironic wisdom and in some ways strikingly prescient.
"By and large, love is easier to experience before it has been explained - easier and cleaner." And, "there are many kinds of love...
Other than the obvious cultural references, and the fact that nobody really writes like this anymore, not much has dated about this book in 80-plus years.
Given that Freud is still the dominant influence on modern psychological thought, the lampooning he gets here is still thoroughly deserved.
"There wasn't one woman in ten thousand, riding frontwards on the rear seat of a tandem wheel, who would permit her consort to ride backwards on the front seat.
The result of all this was not adjustment, but irritability.
Man became frustrated.""Understanding the principles of passion is like knowing how to drive a car; once mastered, all is smoothed out; no more does one experience the feeling of perilous adventure, the misgivings, the diverting little hesitancies, the wrong turns, the false starts, the glorious insecurity.
There are times when it shows its age; language used and assumption of traditional gender norms.
That being said there are clever sections in this collection of essays that take on the guise of being a study of sex and relationships.
Psychology and those who write on sex are a frequently lampooned in references to others' work in the subject, but that particular kind of joke sadly stops short of elaborating.
There are some passages I could better relate to--particularly the frigidity of males , the sheepishness of adults regarding sex, and the fussing over love versus romance--that are more timeless and funny than the pokes at psychology.
"An imagined kiss is more easily controlled, more thoroughly enjoyed, and less cluttery than an actual kiss. To kiss in dream is wholly pleasant. First, the woman is one of your selection, not just anyone who happens to be in your arms at the moment. Second, the deed is garnished with a little spring of glamour which the mind, in exquisite taste, contributes. Third, the lips, imaginatively, are placed just so, the right hand is placed just so, the concurrent thoughts arrive, just so." -E.B. White, Is Sex Necessary? (Ch. 8)And so with that my masturbation addiction is fully justified.
A somewhat amusing satire making light of Freudian and other psudeo-scientific "research" on the relationships between men and women.
The sex of the title refers more to marriage and love than sexual intercourse.
The chapter on children explaining sex and childbirth to their oblivious parents (who have only managed to have children by accident), was probably the funniest chapter.
Otherwise, the book wasn't quite sharp or scathing enough to overcome its dating; it becomes really clear that the style of scientific posturing the authors are critiquing doesn't exist in the same way anymore (though of course there are still plenty of bullshit guides to sex and relationships today).
Many reviewers may not have gotten the joke.
And the joke is somewhat hidden given that this was written in 1929 as a parody of the many sex and relationship manuals of the 1920s.
I found the whole thing wryly amusing when I first read it in my early 20s, but now, after more experience in the field, absolutely dead-on.
Women take note: Thurber was an unapologetic misogynist and horribly "hen-pecked" husband whose humor will no doubt seem dated and sexist.
That said, I heartily recommend the book to anyone still able to laugh at sex, relationships, and the undeniable differences between men and women.
The book was written as a spoof on sex and the study of sex that went on at the turn of the century.
Classic for the time, all ails and ridiculous behaviors by men are laid at the feet of women (those not too bright companions that should stick to their knitting and leave their man total and complete access to freedom).
I read it at the behest of a close male friend that thought it was hysterical, which only made me wonder how far we have truly advanced in the exposure of sexist attitudes in the last 50 years.
IMPORTANT NOTE: This is not the version I read. I have a copy of the original 1929 version and read it. This goofy book from 1929 by a couple of humorous writers is full of amusing comments and drawings about relationships between men and women. Chapters on how to tell Love from Passion, how children should tell their parents about sex, (which has mention of the “generation gap”). The chapter on the Frigidity in Men is also very amusing. Somewhat dated but interesting historically and socially and still can elicit a few chuckles.
Given the fact that this book was written in the late 20's, it's genius. Thurber and White poke fun at pop psychology, which I think is at the root of a lot of imaginary ailments ... AD/HD, autism, fibromyalgia, etc. Anyways, the do so with great flair, and I think it's a pretty good reading supplement for those who are, or about to, be married. In fact, even if you're single, you should probably read it, because it's a hoot.
This was not originally in Dad's Thurber collection--or maybe it had been kept in his room. In any case, when it appeared on the shelf in the living room I'd already read a bunch of Thurber and was immediately interested. The title, however, made me self-conscious about this enthusiasm. I was obsessed with and rather ignorant about sex. Consequently, I read the thing after my parents were in bed and was disappointed. It wasn't sexy at all and much of the humor was beyond my ken.
Though a middle-aged or younger reader might find this much funnier if there were real or veiled references to Joyce Brothers, Doctor Ruth, or Doctor Phil, this book was peculiar and entertaining, and, at times, laugh out loud hilarious. The names of authors E. B. White and James Thurber are reason enough to pick up this book -- the only detriments were a few cultural (and racial) references that were surely much more obvious or commonplace to a between-the-world-wars audience.
