https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275350.Gigi_The_Cat
'Gigi' was charming, humorous and wild, and 'The Cat' was painful and soul rejoicing. Two complete contrasts in story form, one about the fickle life of a young girl being groomed by her grandmother to be a courtesan who's only use is to marry money, and the second about the devoted love and affection one man has for his cat, at the expense of anything and anyone else. Really delightful, beautifully written stories.
***ORIGINAL REVIEW:I saw the movie Gigi - it was made in the late 50s.
Because in the movie the story is so amazingly creepy, most of the characters in it would, if they were transported to contemporary Britain, either be in care (Gigi) or in jail for grooming a child for sexual abuse (Gigi's aunt and mother) or be on the Sex Offenders Register (Gaston and probably Maurice "Tank Evven for Leedle Grrls" Chevalier).
The whole concept is ghastly, but in 1958 Hollywood and its audiences didn't bat an eyelid.
That's a pretty fucked up song… But the actual Colette novella (that I have read in French countless times - as Colette is one of my mother's favorite authors and her books were all over the house I grew up in - and in English for the first time just now) never struck me as creepy.Maybe it's my weird mix of French and Italian cultural heritage, or a healthy perspective on the social and historical setting of the story itself (or maybe I got into Anaïs Nin short stories way too young and a Freudian analyst would have a field day with my brain…), but I found "Gigi" to be a charming and comical, albeit rather unusual, coming-of-age story.Some potential spoilers ahead…Gilberte comes for a family of demi-mondaines; that's a fancy French way of saying high-class courtesans or kept women.
I have just become a Colette fan!
But in fact her prose style is luminous, crepuscular, dreamy and yet precise.
True, her thematic concerns are mostly domestic but she elevates them with her unusual perspectives and lyrical language.I began reading this volume on a whim thinking I would throw it over a hedge after a few pages, but I found myself quickly hooked.
'Gigi' is a good little story, but 'The Cat' is superb, one of the best novellas I've ever read in fact, and probably the best about a cat.
I misjudged Colette!
3.5 starsA bit underwhelming, but The Cat was particularly entertaining and I enjoyed Colette's insight into the sexual politics between men and women in 19/20th century France!
The Cat is the most marvelously creepy novella in the world.
A must-read for any young lady who is engaged to the heir of a declining silk emporium and is slightly worried that a) his family and servants look down upon her and b) he is perhaps too into his cat.Alain, the protagonist of The Cat, is really, really into his cat.
The narrator's casual references to his having had mistresses jar because he seems a decade or two too young to be thinking about sex.
And yet he marries Camille, a lusty young wench with whom he appears to have nothing at all in common.
If I could rate these novellas separately I would give The Cat five stars and Gigi three.
This novella I read mainly because I wanted to know the differences it had with the movie, GiGi, which is one of my favorite films of all time.
The book and the movie are essentially the same, entire dialogues taken out directly from the story.
The only main difference is that in the film, the screenwriters delightfully and delicatly omitted the fact that yes, this is a story about a family of courtesans.
The film and the book have their differences, but essentially the message is the same, Gigi is the same precocious dreamer.
My four stars are for the cat rather than Gigi.
Other than that it was rather fascinating to read about the life of French courtesan and the politeness, manners and fastidiousness which surrounded what was essentially prostitution.
Collette did an excellent job of showing how passion disappears and relationships break down as the husband gradually comes to see things in the wife that irritate and repulse him.
The Cat, however, is eternally beautiful, elegant and mysterious as cats are and is the real object of his affections, which spurs the young wife to jealousy.
Meh. Based on these two stories, I feel towards Colette what I feel towards Wharton: indifference and a little boredom.
But even knowing the financial importance to an entire family, I just can't feel that teenage student Gigi seducing a wealthy man twice her age is a happy ending.
Certainly it doesn't feel like comedy to me.That the newlyweds in The Cat are so miserable is no surprise.
But if the publishers were looking for a cheap image to slap on the cover, couldn't they at least have found one of a Russian Blue, which is what the cat in the story is?Library copy
I'm I the only one who is grossed out a bit by Gigi? Maybe it's because I can't get the creepy song out of my head. I know it's a different time period and all, and that she is being raised to be a mistress. But ick! She's 16! How old is he?Now, The Cat. I love that story, especially the ending where Camille makes some very good observations. The Cat is where it is at.
I enjoyed these two stories and liked "The Cat" over "Gigi".
I think that's why I liked it so much.The first story "Gigi" is basically abut a young girl in France growing up to be a lady.
I'm not sure why they turned "Gigi" into a musical honestly.The second story "The Cat" is basically about a marriage that falls apart over a cat.
"The Cat" is a completely different story.
If this was a collection of more than two stories I would have a problem, but oh well, at least I like the two stories.
I shall remember so many of your exchanges with a wry smile.She only wanted what was best for you but, of course, you grew up in a different world.
You were much too bright for that and I always knew that you would follow your own heart.The greatest pleasure was watching you grow from a schoolgirl into a young woman ready to step into a wonderful future.I’m only sorry that we had just sixty pages together.
They were such beautiful pages, and they just flew by.So now we much say goodbye, but please know that you will always have a place in my heart and that I wish you happiness always.
This has to be my favorite Colette that I've read so far. Tight clean writing, simple in scope yet highly moving. Gigi is my favorite of the two, but both are quite well done. Words that resonate long after the cover is closed.
If he’s getting married, he’s no longer interesting.  The Beginning: Don’t forget you’re going to Aunt Alicia’s.Gigi, 2 starsI had high expectation for this one as I’ve got a soft spot for classics with untraditional heroines. Here we have a young girl trained to be a courtesan who surprises her family by her alternative approach to love. It sounds like a winner, but it felt too short for such an interesting subject. I liked Gigi, though. She amused me in all her childishness and the story was a
She amused me in all her childishness and the story was a fun quickie.I put on a martyred expression – like this – as if I was bored to death with every luxury under the sun.
I had the time of my life.The Cat, 5 starsWhat a lovely little surprise this one turned out to be!
When they marry, the wife becomes very jealous of the cat.
And she should in fact be jealous, because our hero loves the cat more than he loves his wife (if he loves her at all).It’s not often you read a story like this!
A wonderful look at the cultural trappings that every society brings to the most natural and urgent of natural instincts - consequently and ironically well and truly "fucking" it up for just about everybody.I enjoyed "Gigi" and "Cheri" once I'd got my head around the sexual culture of certain segments of French Society of the Fin de Siecle.The Loneliness and yet High Social Profile of the Courtesan is well and truly captured by Colette.
Its ironies, possibilities of great wealth,its pitfalls,its children and the consequences of ageing are all touched on.
I read this book as part of my local book club.
It was chosen as a piece of feminist literature, but I'm not sure that any of the characters really represented feminist ideals for me.
Gigi had some wonderful characterisations of an all-female family who were fascinatingly poor, but part of Parisian high society by their association with wealthy male figures.
In their world, they will never expect to marry; they are instead seeking the best male sponsor, basically becoming their mistress.
Some wonderful prose in this story.
A great read.
I've been watching the movie religiously since I was in kindergarten.
Back then I just took it as some sort of Cinderella story with nice music, and the older I get the more I got out of the story.
Now I finally read the book, I still love the characters, the settings, the rich observation of these people's lives (nobody can create a female character like Colette!).I'm still trying to imagine what would an eau-de-nil Persephone corset with rococo roses embroidered on the suspenders look like...*** I don't care at all about cats, so I didn't read the second part of the book.
Somehow innocent and saucy, worldly-wise and wide-eyed at the same time. Most enjoyable.
Perfect little novella. I loved it! It was small enough to read in one sitting. The joy jumped off the pages. It's the perfect reading for a cold February evening.
Storyline:Gigi was just a slip of a novella, yet the story seemed quite rich.
It was well written and an interesting exploration of a failed marriage, but I just didn’t really like it all that much.
Characters:Both the main characters were unlikeable, yet I feel like the exploration of the characters and their relationship was interesting.
Gigi I really liked, so I will pick up something by Colette again.
Some people like reading about unlikeable characters; I am not one of them.
If you are interested in reading something by Colette I do recommend Gigi however!
"Her gaze wandered over Paris, over the sky from which the light drained a little earlier each day, with an impartial severity which possibly condemned nothing."We saw the movie, recently, about her, and decided we wanted to read one of her books.
Here are some thoughts from a fan:Gigi is a charming story, the movie tracked it pretty closely, just adding a few scenes and characters and a perfect musical score.
With refreshing realism and sweet undertone of satire, Colette wrote a story of what one publisher refers to as “the politics of love”.
Gigi - 5 Stars. This story was clever, intricate and too short. It gave a tantalising glimpse of Gigi's courtesan life and then cut off. I wish there was more to read! The Cat - 3 Stars. As an animal lover, I found Camille's hatred of the cat Saha hard to stomach and that is what brought the rating down. It was beautifully written, but made me uncomfortable, which is really the whole point of the story!
I actually picked this up because I wanted to read Gigi, being familiar with the musical. I found Gigi an ok little story, but obviously based on a very dated concept, and shorter than I was suspecting. The Cat on the other hand I absolutely loved. It's such a great, ever so slightly sinister, concept and it really allowed Colette's prose to shine.
Gigi: 3 stars. Mostly wanted to read it because I love the movie. I don’t know what I was expecting, but this wasn’t it. Extra stars for the familiar dialogue.The Cat: 1 star. I really didn’t understand this story. What I gathered was that it was about a woman who was jealous of her husband’s cat. Complete nonsense.
"Gigi", being groomed to be a mistress at the ripe old age of fifteen, is an unpleasant little tale. Strange, because Colette did such a masterly and amusing job of portraying fifteen-year-olds in her earlier "Claudine at School". "The Cat" is much more interesting. Wife or cat? Which shall it be? I felt he made the right choice.
Colette's stories were very enjoyable. She is very talented and makes seemingly commonplace things, unique and exotic. I was familiar with the movie Gigi and always liked it, and the story was equally enjoyable. The cat was very interesting and unexpected.
I think Colette's stories are much too full of shallow people for me to like them..They have their moments,but overall, I don't really like them a lot.
Classic
Gigi Gilberte Gastón Lachaille - TontonGrandmama madame AlvarezAunt Alicia
4,5
