https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182230.My_Story
In addition to the gorgeous photographs taken by Milton Greene, I find this half-formed book fascinating for three reasons: for the way the ghost of Marilyn Monroe haunts our image of sensuality, for the way the ghost of Norma Jean Mortenson haunts the image of Marilyn Monroe, and for the way the ghost of ghost-writer Ben Hecht haunts the first person voice of this artful, unfinished narrative.Three nights ago, for the umpteenth time, I watched Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, and for the first time in many viewings I took my eyes off Jane Russell (my favorite, the sex symbol a man could have a beer with) and gazed steadily at the perfectly-crafted image of Marilyn Monroe.
مذكرات جميلة لمارلين مونرو وتمنيت انها مكتملة.
عندما شاهدت افلامها وهذا طبعا منذ فترة طويلة لم اشعر انها ممثلة عظيمة بل شاهدت امرأة تملك جسدا مثيرا وتعتمد عليه في هذه الشهرة .
المذكرات تدور حول هذه النقطة فهي تريد ان يقوم المنتجون والمخرجون بمعاملتها انها ممثلة جيدة ولكنهم استمروا بالنظر اليها على انها سلعة يحبها الجمهور وتحقق لهم الأرباح الكبيرة .أسوأ ما في الكتاب هي مقدمة المترجم فقد أشعرني انه مقدم على ترجمة تحفة ادبية عظيمة كالالياذة والأوديسة او الجحيم لدانتي ، فهي اولا وأخيرا مذكرات لممثلة ومن خلال المذكرات نفسها انها كانت ذات ثقافة ضحلة وتعليم سيّء.ولكن للامانة فالترجمة رائعة جدا.
Hecht's abandoned work was later revised and published by photographer Milton Greene, who established rights to the manuscript and whose photos of Monroe are included in the book.Monroe's anecdotes focus on her impoverished childhood as an orphan in Los Angeles, her struggle to prove she could make a living as a motion picture actress and some of the experiences she had along the way.
I can still remember how thrilled I felt when her kind hand touched me.-- My admirers all said the same thing in different ways.
"The man at the studio suggested Marilyn," I said.
"She was a Monroe," said Aunt Grace.

When I say: "Marilyn is a bad person", I actually say: "I'm a bad person"!!!"People had a habit of looking at me as if I were some kind of a mirror instead of a person.
She didn't know her father, and her mother was sent to a mental institution when Marilyn was little!
Her heart remained tender, and she believed in God. Nearly everybody I knew talked to me about God. They always warned me not to offend Him. But when Grace talked about God, she touched my cheek and said that He loved me and watched over me.
من زودتر از همه بلند شدم و شروع به اعتراف گناهم کردم.
او گفت: به زانو بیفت خواهر !به زانو افتادم و شروع کردم به حرف زدن در مورد آقای کیمل که چطور مرا در اتاقش گیر انداخت و به من تجاوز کرد.
دیگر گناهکاران نیز دورم جمع شدند و به زانو افتادند و با گریه و زاری شروع کردند به اعتراف در مورد گناهان شان و من از گود بیرون افتادم.به پشت سرم نگاه کردم، دیدم آقای کیمل بین بی گناهان ایستاده است و با صدای بلند و خالصانه از خداوند می خواهد که گناهِ گناهکاران را ببخشاید.
قصتي.....مارلين مونرومن هي تلك الفاتنة؟ أهي مجرد أنثى جميلة تم تصديرها كواجهة للثقافة الأمريكية؟ أم 
Another really fabulous autobiography.
I wish it was longer.
It answers all the questions about Marilyn's youth and takes you up until she starts touring with the troops.
She was a very smart lady.
It does make me wonder, however, why every Marilyn biopic totally screws up the story of her youth.
You can read it in her own words!
There's no excuse to get the story wrong!
And it's very dramatic, so it's not like any drama is added by changing the story.
This is why I prefer autobiographies.
Other people screw up the details.
Read this book- it's fabulous!
Ladies and Gentile men,Marilyn Monroe finally speaks Arabic,and The Master is: Basim Mahmoud
Pois ela foi capaz de lutar pelos seus sonhos, por mais que os outros dissessem que ela não podia.
Porque será que o ser humano só reconhece o talento dos verdadeiros artistas depois de eles estarem mortos?Este livro é um conjunto de desabafos escritos pela própria Marilyn Monroe.
Não mostrava realmente para os outros quem realmente era.Foi um livro muito agradável de se ler.
A muito tempo que queria ler algo escrito por Marilyn.
Marilyn Monroe é uma figura que deve ser mais valorizada, não pelo seu corpo bonito mas pela sua inteligente mente.
داستان زندگی مریلین مونرو از زبان خودش که به قلم خودش نوشته شده و ده سال پس از مرگش منتشر شده.
تمام سال هایی که تلاش میکنه بازیگر بشه، بارها و بارها با پیشنهادهای بیشرمانه مواجه میشه.کتاب خیلی زیباییه و چقدر تعجب برانگیزه که یه سلبریتی در اوج شهرت حاضر به چاپ چنین مطالبی بشه.
این نوشته ها تقریبا هشت سال آخر زندگیش رو شامل نمیشن.
به همین دلیل وقایع مربوط به ازدواج با آرتور میلر توی کتاب قید نشده.
که یا به ترجمه برمیگرده و یا به این دلیله که مریلین مونرو نویسنده نبوده و فقط خاطراتش رو به رشته ی تحریر دراورده.
Supposedly written in her own words and published 10 years after her death in 1962, this is an unfinished account of some of the transitions Norma Jean Mortensen , who spent her childhood in a procession of foster homes and unyielding poverty made to become the Marilyn Monroe of legends.
I haven't read much about Monroe, but still found her story to be tragic.
As the continued lyrics say, I would have liked to know you, but I was just a kid, the candle burned out long before the legend ever did.
جميل جدًا, يعيبه فقط انه انتهى بسرعة, الله يرحمك يا مارلين.
In either case, there is a poignancy about the book that is haunting.Like many women growing up when I did, Marilyn was definitely a screen star in every sense of the word.
But her own story in her own words adds significantly to the collection.I give "My Story" four stars, primarily because so much is left unanswered....but then again, at the end of this book, the collaborator's note says: "This is where Marilyn's manuscript ended when she gave it to me." A book unfinished, perhaps—just like her life.
مارلين مونرو مارلين مونرو مثال دائم على قسوة الوسط الفني، وصعوبة حياة النجومية والأضواء، امرأة فاتنة وذات شخصية طفولية، عاشت حياة صعبة جداً وفي فقر وجوع قبل أن تتحول إلى معشوقة الملايين وصديقة للرئيس الأمريكي جون كينيدي – نظريات المؤامرة تقترح أن جون وروبرت كينيدي كانا خلف مقتلها -، ولكن هذا كله لم يمنحها إلا شعور من التعاسة، وهذه حالة غريبة من عدم التوازن نجدها لدى بعض الفنانين والذين يسقطون تحت تأثير الكحول والمخدرات والعنف، هل هي ضغوطات العمل في بيئة تنافسية شرسة، النجومية فيها سريعة الزوال، والكل يحاول إسقاط الآخرين؟ ربما!!

«سومین کتاب از چالش تابستونیِ پنج کتاب در ده روز ~چالش اینستاگرامی~»من خلاصه ی زندگی مرلین مونرو رو میدونستم. اسم اصلیش نورما جینه و حاصل یه رابطه ی نامشروع بوده و پدرش رو هیچ وقت از نزدیک ندیده. مادرش بیماری روانی داشته و تو بیمارستان بستری بوده. نورما جین تو یتیم خونه بزرگ میشه و گاهی فرستاده میشده پیش خانواده های مختلف و اونجا کار میکرده. تو ۹ سالگی بهش تجاوز میشه و در نوجوانی هم ازدواج میکنه و تو ۱۹ سالگی طلاق میگیره و بعد از اون تصمیم میگیره هنرپیشه بشه اما به مشکلات خیلی زیادی برمیخوره که
تو ۹ سالگی بهش تجاوز میشه و در نوجوانی هم ازدواج می‌کنه و تو ۱۹ سالگی طلاق می‌گیره و بعد از اون تصمیم می‌گیره هنرپیشه بشه اما به مشکلات خیلی زیادی برمی‌خوره که مهم ترینش اینه که همه (از جمله رئیس های استدیو های سینمایی) دیدِ جنسی بهش داشتن.
از کثیفی های هالیوود حرف می‌زنه و خیلی چیزای دیگه.من خیلی طرفدار مرلین مونرو نیستم و علاوه بر اون متن کتاب از لحاظ ادبی ارزش چندانی نداره و مدام از موضوعی به موضوع دیگه ای می‌پره و برای همین یکم برام خسته کننده بود.
یه جاهایی اواخر کتاب مرلین درموردِ افسردگیش بعد از شهرت چند خط میگه اما توضیح زیادی نمیده.
کتاب شرح زندگانی مرلین مونرو ، ستاره ی جذاب و جنجالی سینماست.
نثر چندان قابل قبولی نداشت چون از زبان خود او نوشته شده و طبیعتا نمی توان انتظاری در حد نویسنده ای ماهر از او داشت.بیشتر مربوط به دوران نوجوانی و ابتدای جوانی ست و کمبود های آن دوران .
ای کاش شخصی که این خاطرات را گردآورده ، در رابطه با دوران اوج شهرت ستاره و سال های انتهای زندگی خصوصا ازدواج با آرتور میلر هم مطالبی اضافه می کرد.با این که مرلین مونرو به هیچ وجه از بازیگران محبوب من نیست ولی نمی توان از خواندن این کتاب گذشت.ناگفته نماند که با دانستن نکات بیشتری از او ، تا حدودی ذهنیتم درباره ی شخصیتش عوض شد.

“I didn’t mind being a goof if only he loved me. I felt when we were together that I walked in the gutter and he on the sidewalk. All I did was keep looking up to see if there was love in his eyes.”
مارلين مونرو اكبر مثال على أن الانسان ليس بمظهره، لم يخطر ببالي يوماً أن الجميلة مارلين تخفي خلف عينيها كل هذا الحزن والفقر ، ولم أصدق أنها وصلت لشهرتها بمجهود حقيقي دون استغلال جمالها بل أنه كان عائق لها في معظم الأحيان، تمنيت لو أنها أكملت هذه المذكرات حتى فترة أقرب لوفاتها.
Regardless who actually wrote it though, this book unabashedly delves into the troubled childhood and tormented young adulthood of a rising Hollywood starlet.) Rather than a "proper" autobiography, where the writer chronicles his or her life with a sense of fluidity, My Story reads more like a series of vignettes rather than a linear chronicle of Monroe's life.
Monroe's life is not depicted as a fairy tale but a grim look into a childhood and young adulthood marred by molestation, exploitation, sexual harassment and sexism, divorce, and addiction.
Yet the way it concludes allows for a sense of open finality to Monroe's life as her iconic status has never diminished.
Considering that's pretty much how she was found....I remember reading the section on "Men" in a woman's magazine in the early 70s, probably when the book first came out.
Now I guess I do.I found this a rather uncomfortable read, but then Miss Monroe led a rather uncomfortable life: from unwanted foster child to fearing she had inherited the family's mental instability, to struggling starlet, to actress who unsuccessfully tried to take control of her own professional life before "artistic control" was understood to belong to the artists who made it happen.
I just don’t see how this infantile, blushing voice belongs to the same person who reads Turgenev, Zola, Proust, Joyce, Camus, Mann, Aristophanes, Aristotle, and Lucretius, or to the same person who started her own production company and broke an unfair contract with a gigantic film company and started something of a revolution in the film industry.I don’t see how that woman could say things like "I bought woolen suits because I remembered that New York and Chicago were in the North.
Or does it sound like something that fits into the carefully curated persona of a dizzy little dream of a working class girl whose cup size is higher than her IQ?
I've always liked Marilyn Monroe - she did sexy with such innocent grace.
As this is punctuated through the book as she describes her survival of a very difficult childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood with the strength and perseverance which would mold the woman that she would become.
For example - not sleeping with the powerful movie executive as a career move, or marrying a man she was not truly in love with although he was dying and would have left her a fortune.I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to women looking for an example of strength, character, and grace.
Almost everyone knows who Marilyn Monroe is, but this book reveals a whole other side to her life, her emotions, not just who she was on-screen but who she was as a person. It's definitely worth reading and very interesting.
Her haunting vision of herself as "the kind of girl they found dead in a hallway bedroom with an empty bottle of sleeping pills in her hand" was disquieting.My Story begins with Marilyn's childhood as an orphan deep in poverty: mistreated, abused, and unwanted.
Marilyn regarded acting as an art form, something to be taken seriously, and she worked hard to reach the highest plateau she could in Hollywood.
Plenty of other places to find a detailed timeline of Marilyn's life.
I'll give two stars to this book mainly because there was no fine writing in it.
I got the feeling she was trying to explain herself in some parts, like she was talking to people who accused her of being a man-stealer.
But I totally related to what she felt with all the Hollywood "wolves" and the fact that every one saw her as this flirty girl who was, in the end, an object for sex, despite the fact that true intentions had nothing to do with that.
Glad I read it.
Makes me want to know a lot more about her.
I am about half way through this book....its nothing exciting or riveting.....it is simplistic in its approach. This book is more for fans who want to get to know the real Marilyn better. Her real thoughts may surprise some.The pictures included are some I havent seen before and brought tears to my eyes, becuase some give us a glimpse of Norma Jean...not Marilyn.
چهره واقعی هالیوود و زندگی یک ستارهبعد از خوندن کتاب دلم برای مرلین مونرو سوختبه خاطر همهی مشکلاتی که پشت سر گذاشت و نتیجهای که در پایان مورد پسندش نبودکاش به جای اینکه تبدیل به سمبل جنسی بشهفقط به عنوان یک بازیگر خوب معروف میشد" همیشه با این جور برخوردها مشکل داشتم ، مردم همیشه طوری به من نگاه میکردند که انگار آینهای روبهرویشان بودم ، آن ها مرا نمیدیدند ، بلکه افکار هرزه خودشان را در من میدیدند.بعد نقاب بیگناهی به چهره میزدند و مرا هرزه میخواندند! "
چهره واقعی هالیوود و زندگی یک ستارهبعد از خوندن کتاب دلم برای مرلین مونرو سوختبه خاطر همه‌ی مشکلاتی که پشت سر گذاشت و نتیجه‌ای که در پایان مورد پسندش نبودکاش به جای اینکه تبدیل به سمبل جنسی بشهفقط به عنوان یک بازیگر خوب معروف میشد" همیشه با این جور برخوردها مشکل داشتم ، مردم همیشه طوری به من نگاه می‌کردند که انگار آینه‌ای روبه‌روی‌شان بودم ، آن ها مرا نمی‌دیدند ، بلکه افکار هرزه خودشان را در من می‌دیدند.بعد نقاب بی‌گناهی به چهره می‌زدند و مرا هرزه می‌خواندند! "
