https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1067693.Meg_and_Mog
This is a must have for every toddler. I know it looks very basic but they love the bright colours and this was the first book my son memorized as we read it so many times!
I've commented before on how hard it is to review picture books like this - I mean, by the time I've got into my flow here I'll have used more words than are contained within this entire book.This is our second Meg and Mog book.
We got him this book, some soap/crayons that you can draw with in the bath that wipe off, some foam letters which stick to the wall when wet (another bath toy) a giant teddy bear and a toddler laptop (so he stops trying to steal the adult computer).
A very solid picture book.I have one genuine gripe: Owl. There are three 'people' living in the house, Meg, Mog and Owl. Why doesn't Owl get a name?
My favourite witch!
A nice book to read to children around Halloween. Does any of them celebrate Halloween? What do they dress up as?Creating their own potions - they could each find an object in the class that they would like to put into the teacher’s cauldron. They are going to try and make a spell - what would they like to make a spell on?Each of the children to make up a small spell, focussing on rhyming words and their object. Each child says their spell as they add the object into the cauldron!
Excellent childhood classic
Meg and Mog is a picture book about Meg the witch and Mog her cat.
The book is a brilliant combination of a magical story and beautiful pictures.
It is a short read and the story would be ideal for circle time.
The book can be used as a part of a numeracy session in Early Years as the children can count the objects inside the book, point and name the simple shapes.
I think the book would be a great choice for children in Early Years and at the beginning of KS1.
Meg and mog were some of my favourite childhood reads. Through adult eyes, it's a bit wtf - but kids still love them.
Wow this brings me back...Loved this book with all my heart as a little one.
Onomatopoeia
Entertaining and good for Halloween! The cat is cute and the adventure is easy to follow.
I have found children to absolutely love this book and so would highly recommend it for reading for pleasure. It is a simple story highlighting an exciting journey, it could be used as an introduction to writing a whole class adventure tale but I feel it would be more beneficial as a RFP book.
Meg, a witch whose spells often backfire in interesting ways, lives with her cat, Mog, and Owl. They creatures of habit and routine who enjoy their breakfasts.
My son loves these books and with their big, bold and unstructured text, it makes for a good book for kids learning to read.
There are 16 books in the series (that I know of, anyway) and each one is similar - and familiar - in terms of style and storyline, yet also distinctively different.
There's something wonderful about sharing a story you loved as a child, with your own child, and watching them enjoy it just as much.
Wow I am so pleased I have rediscovered this series!
I have just been completely transported back in time reading the first book, ‘Meg and Mog’, with my toddler.
Illustration wise I feel picture books have come a long way, but on the flip side these simplistic, bold and brightly coloured images do exude a certain charm and are actually quite captivating!
There is lots of opportunity for interaction with counting, time telling and animal recognition.
My toddler however just found this whole concept funny.
I will certainly be revisiting more books in this series and thoroughly recommend it be on all children’s bookshelves!
Youngest halfling and I love these books. There is something so endearing in the simplistic imagination of the series. The vibrant illustrations are great too.
As a child I LOVED cats, and I'm probably quite sure I thought I was a witch (who doesn't?!). Needless to say I really liked these Meg and Mog books.
Meg and Mog is the first children’s book in this series. It is a fun, enjoyable book for children (aged 2-4) to read. This book can be used in a educational setting or just for pleasure.The books illustrations are simple for children to interpret which is suitable for the reading age. The book also has very simple sentences which is easier for children to follow.
The simple drawings and rich colors are very effective, and there are some really interesting page layouts. But the story goes nowhere, even for a book aimed at really young children. I can’t see many kids actually enjoying this.
Delightful. Suitable for young children. We've added this to our Halloween library as I am a collector of seasonal books.
Read: 8th January 2018 (NR)I love these books and so glad I found my copies to read with my little one. Great use of bold coloured spreads that really engage a small child.
Reception. Bright art, children can help out because of illustrations. Simple, super-short read.COUNTING COLOURS TIME
One of my little boys' favourite books. We've actually read a collection of Meg books and they are all a delight.
A classic!!
I read this book when I was small and I loved it.❤❤My mom read it to me back when I was 5.
I read this book when I was small and I loved it.❤️❤️My mom read it to me back when I was 5.
Witches have always been my one of the fav childhood characters <3 Love them for their obsession with  Abracadabra  spells :D
This brought back some childhood memories. Loved the big text and bold images. Actually really fun and my just turned 2yr old was rivited!
I liked how it showed in its simplicity what Meg put on to get dressed, what she put in her cauldron for breakfast, and what they put in a cauldron for their spell.
However what confused me and I guess, made the book stick in my mind was the following: (view spoiler)[ After the spell goes wrong, Meg's witch friends get turned into mice.
She says, "I'll have to change them [her friends] back, next Halloween." What sort of friend is she to leave her friends as mice for a year?
(hide spoiler)] I guess it is a simple, amusing Halloween book though I'm not so sure how I feel about the ending.
This is a book about murder most foul, perpetrated by Meg and Mog against Jess, Bess, Tess and Cress.
And then 'somehow' only Jess, Bess, Tess and Cress get changed into mice whilst Meg remains fine?
Surely it is not coincidence they are changed into mice - the favourite rodent for cats to chase, and which Mog of course does?
We see no evidence of sadness or regret from Meg, rather on the final page she and Mog say a cheery 'goodbye'.
What we have here, hidden in pages with bright primary colours, is the story of how Meg disposed of her friends.
Meg and Mog has been one of my favourite books ever since I was a little girl. There's something about Jan Pieńkowski's vivid illustrations that just makes me smile. Our children also love the adventures of witch Mog, her stripy cat Mog, and Owl. If you want to take a learning angle, these stories are great for thinking about magic, recipes (ingredients for spells) and rhymes. But I love them just because they are so much fun. I won't write individual reviews for the books in this series, as they all have their moments of delight!
I still love Jan Pienkovski’s art and our house is packed with examples of his work from Meg and Mog to pop-up Haunted House; from 1001 First Words to The One Thousand Nights and One Night… But this is where is all began for me, with the story of Meg the witch, her cat Mog, Owl and the spells that never work out.
There’s nothing not to love about the Meg and Mog books but the first one is my special favourite, it’s probably one of the first books I read independently.
The fantastic easy to read lettering and the bright contrasting colours means it catches the attention of even very young babies.
I never tire of reading it.
Meg and Mog is a fantastic story to read and share with children.
It stimulates interaction between teacher and child and encourages the child to remember a short catchy story by ear.
The story also helps children to identify objects and encourages them to shout out their answers to various fun objects,i.e recognizing pictures with words.
Therefore encouraging the child to start early reading by keeping them involved in the story.By the end of the book children will be telling you most of the story themselves by prompting their imagination.
