https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17799.South_of_the_Border_West_of_the_Sun
Whatever Murakami book I am reading, I find myself stepping back into the same world as before, with all of the same characters and themes of wells and transience and strangely poignant details like gold lighters and classical music records and the myriad spaghetti dinners--the mundane details of everyday life spun into a dreamy tapestry.
The fact that every Murakami book I read seems to feel the same is a good thing in this author's case.
Every time I read him I feel I'm wrapping myself in a wispy cocoon of emotions and floating once again in that wistful introspection, melancholy, disassociation.

The other night a friend mentioned she is reading '1Q84' at the moment and it got me all nostalgic for a Murakami experience.
So choosing one at random of the ever diminishing list of Murakami's I haven't read yet I chose 'South of the Border, West of the Sun'.What do you get?
Plot-wise it most reminds me of 'Norwegian Wood', especially that it has no weird story elements.
It's just a straight our universe no funny business at all Murakami.
Indeed reading it I thought of it as a proto-Norwegian Wood, like a practice piece.
But looking at his Wikipedia page I see that he wrote it two novels after 'Norwegian Wood'.
You wouldn't want to do that, now would you?South of the Border, West of the Sun is set in a familiar Murakami landscape where lonely men listen to jazz and classical music, get obsessed with mysterious women with death in their eyes, and crave a connection with just one fellow soul.
Like other Murakami books, South of the Border, West of the Sun is a mood piece.
Like many Murakami characters, Hajime is not an action hero; he spends most of the book waiting for fate to deal him a lucky card, and when he finally gets it, he doesn't really know what to do with it.
Kokkyo no minami, Taiyo no nishi = South of the border, west of the sun, Haruki Murakami South of the Border, West of the Sun is a short novel by Japanese author Haruki Murakami. Publication date: 1992. The novel tells the story of Hajime, starting from his childhood in a small town in Japan. Here he meets a girl, Shimamoto, who is also an only child and suffers from polio, which causes her to drag her leg as she walks. They spend most of their time together talking about their interests in life
وقتی از بار بیرون آمدم چیزی به طلوع خورشید نمانده بود، و بارانی ملایم بر خیابان اصلی آئویاما می‌بارید.
در میان راه بر لبه ی حفاظ کنار خیابان نشستم و کلاغ بزرگی را تماشا کردم که نشسته بر یک چراغ راهنمایی قارقار می‌کرد.
سایه‌ ی تباهی و گسیختگی همه‌ جا در کمین نشسته بود و من هم بخشی از آن بودم .
They made love (yeah how unpredictable) and then she disappeared because the book would be deep if it's an unhappy one, and then the guy was like "WTF happened was that all a dream?" because the money is gone (yeah if you have read then you know I mean what money) but no it was real and he came back to his poor wife.
If you have read a lot you should probably not regard Murakami as those authors who offer the most beautiful prose out there.
This look like a second attempt of Murakami after the success of Norwegian Wood (which is an emo saga to me).
ماذا يمكن للمرء طلب أكثر من ذلك؟ لم يكن بإمكاني تصور حياة أفضل.كان يعيش حياة هانئة قبل أن يقابل حبه القديم الذي انزوى في حنايا القلب و ظن أنه لم يوجد أبدا في يوم من الأيامعرفت منذ قابلتكِ أن هناك شيئا مفقودا.
ليس هناك سوى شخص واحد يمكنه ذلك.هل كان يعيش الوهم أم الحقيقة أم أن الحياة أصلا هي وهم و لا توجد حقيقة مادية إلا ما صنعته قلوبنا و أفئدتنا؟أنتِ هنا.
و قد يكون كل هذا العشق هو عشق الذات و قد لا يكون إلا عشقا واحدا ينتظر فرصة خفقان القلب بصدق.ما لم أفهمه أنذاك أن بإمكاني أن أجرح مشاعر فتاة بشكل سيء لا تشفى منه أبدا.
".....the sad truth is that certain types of things can’t go backward. Once they start going forward, no matter what you do, they can’t go back the way they were. If even one little thing goes awry, then that’s how it will stay forever." South of the Border, West of the Sun is a short novel by Haruki Murakami. Here, we read the story of one Hajime's journey from childhood to middle age. The novel explores themes of post-war capitalism and culture in Japan in the 20th century, infidelity in rela
".....the sad truth is that certain types of things can’t go backward.
The novel explores themes of post-war capitalism and culture in Japan in the 20th century, infidelity in relationships and unrequited love besides usual Murakami-esque themes of alienation, loneliness and longing.The story gets its name from the Nat King Cole song by the name of South of the Border.
Jazz music is a central to the themes in the story, as we sit back in dazzling jazz bars, sipping cocktails listening to Nat King Cole and Duke Ellington.Meanwhile, West of the Sun part of the title refers to a disease called Siberian hysteria.
Il suocero è ricco e gli permette di coronare un sogno: aprire un jazz bar.A questo punto, Shimamoto è a sud del confine della memoria di Hajime, oltre il raggio del ricordo, sparita perfino dal radar del sentimento.Così crede Hajimi, così crediamo noi.Ma così non è.Ma così non è: perché quando vent’anni dopo, Shimamoto si presenta al locale di Hajimi, bella ed elegante, e con poche parole apre oceani di mistero oscuro che sapientemente dosa senza rivelare, tutto sembra possibile, Hajime è pronto a mandare all’aria la sua solidità familiare per buttarsi tra le braccia della sua amica d’infanzia, ora finalmente in grado di essere donna della vita.Ma Shimamoto scompare di nuovo, come vent’anni prima.
I had to actually remove my focus from the words themselves, and to let them pass intact – like cloudy kidney stones painlessly through my urethra – through my reading eyes and brain and straight into my conceptualizing mind, where they formed something quite small for a novel of over 200 pages.
The essence of this book is that “All things with form can vanish at any moment, but emotion abides”, an admirable enough concept that I wholeheartedly accept; but is that why I read, to ingest thousands of words that instantly vaporize in my mind leaving a paltry residue such as that?
This novel starts out as a coming-of-age story of a young Japanese man.
Like other Murakami novels we have cats, Western culture and music – both American pop and European classical music.
To the cats we can add lame women because there are two in this story.
Everyone thinks of these “alternate life scenarios” in passing but this man is obsessed by it.
As with some other Murakami novels I found the resolution of the story to be unsatisfactory.
In both novels the science fiction/fantasy part of the novel seemed tossed in just for the heck of it and didn’t seem to be necessary to the plot.
Each novel shows a similar scene, but each one with a different focus.South of the Border, West of the Sun is a meditation on moving on, learning to live with your decisions, learning to change, to adapt with the current.
We may not like these changes, but learning to accept who we are; who we’ve become is the most important step to moving on.
Now he is in his thirties married with children and lives a comfortable and contented life until his past comes back to visit him.
We neglect the present where we can make a difference, and we dwell in the past where we can’t do a thing.
A character that a) can't generate new dreams in life, and b) is miserable about the newly discovered prospect of providing for the dreams of people he claims to love, is utterly unappealing to me.
I could appreciate South of the Border on this level, thinking of how Hajime's narration about himself was completely unreliable, and underneath there was a story about someone who spent his life driven only by what he wanted, with no understanding of or interest in his impact on others.
The story is of an average man, Hajime, who cannot forget the superbly mysterious and beautiful Shimamoto (ironically, he can’t remember her first name: this is her last name.) Hajime meets Shimamoto in kindergarten and they both bond over the fact that they are “only” children of their parents.
Polio-infected Shimamoto is the one girl who makes a very deep impression on his young mind.
Hajime is torn between an average life and his prospects with Shimamoto.
It’s like a sequel to Norwegian Wood.
Even in a very adventurous novel like The Wind-up Bird Chronicle, the protagonist remains the calm guy who makes spaghetti.
It’s one of those quiet books that makes a deep impression on your mind.
بدون قطط ناطقة ولا اسماك متساقطة من السماء، نجح موراكامي في إبهاري هذه المرة أيضا.
هل سبق وأن طرحت على نفسك اسئلة تتعلق بمدى سعادتك في الحياة؟ أن احترت فيما أن كنت ترغب أن تحيا بالطريقة التي تعيشها حاليا أم أنها رسمت لك دون تدخل منك؟ ألم تشعر يوما أن هناك نهرا من الحسرة يسري تحت القشرة الصلبة من الروتين اليومي والكفاح المضني.
نهاية الرواية مفتوحة أو شبه مفتوحة على أقل تقدير، ولا اعتراضي لدي على ذلك.
هناك نكهة من الغموض، احتفاء بالموسيقى، احتفال باللذة الجسدية وهي عناصر سبق أن وجدتها في رائعة موراكامي السابقة: (كافكا على الشاطئ).
«جنوب الحدود» هو عنوان أغنية لنات كينج كول، بينما «غرب الشمس» هو اسم لمرض هستيري يعاني منه الفلاحون في سيبيريا.
هذه الأغنية التي كان يعشقها منذ الصغر بقيت معلقة في ذاكرته كتعويذة غامضة، تولد لديه الفضول، وتدفعه نحو حل اللغز الموجود «جنوب الحدود».
ولئن كان المقصود بـ «جنوب الحدود» في الأغنية هو «المكسيك».
هي كناية عن الرغبة والأمل والطموح «كنت مقتنعا بأن شيئاً رائعاً يكمن جنوب الحدود».موراكامي، الذي تتصدر رواياته قوائم الروايات الأكثر مبيعاً في العالم، يتناول في هذا العمل سيرة فرد ياباني مذ كان طفلا إًلى أن يبلغ الأربعين.
هاروكي موراكامي، هو تلك المنطقة الرمادية بين الواقع والخيال
I feel enchanted when I read his novels, almost like I’m entering some magical world.
At times it might even seem like we know his characters better than ourselves.Both his writing style and the general mood of his books have something very unpretentious about them.
At times, I had a feeling that Murakami was telling me: “I don’t know the meaning of life and I can’t tell it to you.”, but in some instances I had a feeling I was seeing it with my eyes, in the story (in art) itself and that it is too complex a thing to put into worlds in a straightforward way.
Dala bih joj pola boda manje, ali mi ljubav prema džezu ne dozvoljava. Pritom, ovo je prvo Murakamijevo delo koje sam pročitala, pa mu je zamišljen kraj oprošten. Atmosfera mi se dopala, nakon bure koju je u meni izazvala Tenesijeva drama, bila je baš ono što mi je trebalo.Stil je, u nedostatku boljih reči, tih i živ. Robins' Nest je lokal u kom bih i sama rado popila koktel, pred vratima ostavljajući zvuke dobovanja kiše, prepustivši se svoj lepoti džeza.
But since this is a Murakami, after all, of course this is a love story, of course there is jazz, of course there are city walks, and of course there is an anything but smooth clockwork of social, emotional and communicational barriers.More often than not I could hardly comprehend the human interaction in Japanese literature and film.
Here the Great Unspoken falls perfectly into place with all those inexplicable little surreal scenes, so typical of Murakami’s work.
Nothing happens here that hasn’t happened before or to others, the world isn’t about to end, there is nothing earth-shattering.
But what really depressed and hurt me was something else: the fact that everything they thought about me was true.
Murakami captures so well the wonder of this innocent childhood friendship free of sexuality in a way not possible in our current age.
She now lives alone and appears zombie-like, which instills Hajime with remorse and guilt as the possible cause of her unhappy state.
Lots of different ways to live.
All that remains is a desert.In this state of anomie and self-judgment, Shimamoto appears one day at his bar.
Έχει μέσα κάτι γελοίους διαλόγους, έχει πράγματα απλά γιατί έτσι του ήρθε, δεν εξηγεί ποτέ, τα αφήνει όλα μετέωρα ρε παιδί μου.
Επίσης, βρε καρμίρη Μουρακάμι, βρε άνθρωπε, γιατί τόσο σεξ βρε μανάρι μου; Και σαν να μην έφτανε αυτό, αμ τι βασικός χαρακτήρας ειν τούτος; Έναν φίλο δεν έχει.
Ούτε ο Ντι Κάπριο στα νιάτα του δεν έχει μοιράσει τόσο πόνο.
Σιγά μην ακούνε και Καρρά οι άλλες μετά για να τον ξεπεράσουν.
Παρ όλα αυτά θα ήταν άδικο να μην αναγνωρίσω ότι έχει και όμορφα κομμάτια μέσα το βιβλίο.
Και ότι με τράβηξε πολύ παρά τα αρνητικά του.Τέσσερα ΥΠΟΚΕΙΜΕΝΙΚΌΤΑΤΑ αστέρια για το βιβλίο.
After having read the bulk of his work, I've come to the conclusion that one has to have a general picture of Murakami's novels in order to understand each of his stories seperately.
It sure lacks the paranormal, dreamy, often nightmarish elements that define Murakami, but there are a few familiar things nonetheless.
A troubled, incomplete protagonist, women whom there's something wrong with one way or the other, weird sexual tricks as a device for making a point, and of course records and jazz.
Like I've said before, I don't know how he does it, but Murakami managed to trap me in his world once more.
أشعر دوما كما لو أني أكافح لاصبح شخصا آخر .كما لو كنت أبحث عن مكان جديد، أتمسك بحياة جديدة وشخصية جد
The rest of the life moves according to the choice you make, which decides if you are going to have an *apparently-happy-looking* life or the one where your heart is satisfied with what you have and doesn't let you roam in the direction of what-ifs?
Another lesson this book taught me is that once you make a wrong decision (you know it was wrong by the hollow-ness of your heart and soul), regret about it and later in life try to grab the opportunity (if provided) to pick up the option you gave up on before, it will still be a total mess and will result in utter death of your soul.
But, like the saying goes, nothing—either good or bad—is meant to last forever.Hajime meets Yukiko.
Yukiko and Hajime’s marital life seems to run smoothly on some auto-pilot; just like some silky, old, jazz record.
That doesn't mean anything any more, but Shimamoto and Hajime grew up in a middle-class microcosm, where every typical family was supposed to have two kids.
Besides, a short time afterwards another girl appears in Hajime’s life.Izumi Ohara is a cute, young girl, who will be a mystery woman locked-up in some apartment, when she will grow up.
Nevertheless Hajime wants to make love to Izumi.
This novel (in an earlier translation Gefährliche Geliebte) gained a certain notoriety in Germany back in 2000 when it led to the acrimonious collapse of a long-running television institution, Das Literarische Quartett.
At some stage it had to happen that the underlying hostility would bubble to the surface, and it was Sigrid Löffler's disparagement of this book as 'literary fast food' which led to the final rupture.
Well, I think Sigrid Löffler was perhaps somewhat severe in her assessment of the language, but, you know, there's that translation thing.
The final encounter between the two protagonists is less an act of love than a ritual sacrifice carried out by a high priestess.

Πόσο ιδιαίτερη γραφή, πόσο αγαπημένος Murakami!
Unfortunately, Murakami is no Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and this glass of soda pop novel is no Love in the Time of Cholera.I'm not a guy who requires plot, per se, but what plot there is here is perfunctory; Murakami makes things way too easy for his protagonist Hajime in order to grease the skids from point A to B.
Anytime Murakami wants to add any kind of flavor or to flesh things out, he resorts to easy pop cultural markers, Nat King Cole records, Casablanca and such.A relatively large amount of time is spent tying Hajime to his father-in-law's shady dealings, yet nothing comes from all the set up.
