https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543495.Treasures_of_the_Snow
I love this Christian book that I read as a child and re-read recently. Annette decides that she will never forgive Lucien for hurting her brother Dani. And so she begins a revenge campaign involving many other people in their small community. But her hatred consumes her and she ends up hating herself for what she has become. This is an account of the power of forgiveness even when it seems impossible. Recommended for children and teenagers.
This book has 26 chapters and is the perfect Christmas book.
My family read this out loud as every December.
Starting on December first, my mother would read one chapter aloud to us every night.
After we opened presents on Christmas day, we would lie around listening to the end of the story.
I can remember my mom starting to cry (every time!) as she read the part where the old man tells his life story.
She would have to pass the book to Dad who never managed to finish the chapter without at least a wobble in his voice.
This story was just as charming this time as when I first read it in school as a child!
At times, it was a bit sermon heavy for me, too, but really, the story was good enough that I could endure a bit of sermonizing.Within the plot are three stories/layers of forgiveness: the girl who smashes the boy's horse in an act of revenge, the boy who teases a younger child to the point that a horrible accident occurs, and the old man who isolates himself from his family after a series of dishonest and neglectful acts.
One of the most meaningful quotes for me was this: "...if you spend your time putting the love of your heart into your deeds for those who are not your friends, you may often be disappointed and discouraged.
To be fair, as an adult reader and now a novelist, I can tell you its simple structure and straightforward message is woefully out of place in today's modern world of ambiguity and flawed anti-heroes.
It is a reminder of a world that was more innocent and simpler.
This book is simple, to be sure, but sometimes we make like too complicated and the reminder of simpler times and values is desperately needed.*While the editors of the updated version had good intentions, the watered-down text is insulting to older readers and too simple for younger ones.
We read this as a family and all enjoyed it. My only serious complaint are the few spots they author teaches kids that God promises to always protect them and never let anything bad happen to them. That is totally unBiblical. It did provide a chance for us to stop the reading and talk about that issue, which is good.
After I have read this book, I noticed the theme is the innocence of childhood. They do not know about jealousness nor hatred. The author used the story of a young girl and a boy, Annette and Lucien, letting God Jesus in and allowing him to love everyone. "But it is hard, after what he'd done." -Annette. Yes, it is a hard progress to forgive someone for their grave mistakes. But I believe that everyone should be forgiven at some point. Everyone had made mistakes and asked for forgiveness, it's a part of life.
Am citit cartea aceasta cand eram copil. Acum am recitit o pt ca voiam să văd cum o simt la maturitate. M a miscat la fel de tare. Povestea, este mai degrabă o pilda, cu tâlc, strâns legată de biblie si Dumnezeu, dar e atât de frumos scrisa încat nici nu iti dai seama. Cartea este un șir de povete pt copii, menite să i faca mai buni, mai pozitivi, sa învețe să ierte, sa nu mintă, sa isi deschida inima către Isus. Drăguță carte de citit in preajma Crăciunului. ♡
I have strong memories of disliking this book as a child, largely due to its utterly vile heroine. I spent the entire book with an almost uncontrollable desire to give Annette a massive slap for essentially doing all she can to ruin Lucien's life. Unfortunately, my hatred for her made it impossible for me to enjoy the book and so I fail to remember what merits (if any) it actually has.
Lukas ist der superböse Junge, wird dämonisiert, ausgegrenzt, Anette, ein Nachbarskind seines Alters, macht Lukas das Leben absichtlich zur Hölle, weil sich das verwöhnte kleine Gör Dani, ihr Bruder, das Bein gebrochen hat, weil Lukas einen ziemlich hässlichen Fehler gemacht hat.
Anette zerschmeißt Lukas aus Rachsucht eine Schnitzerei, gesteht aber irgendwann alles, weil sie ja Gott in ihr Herz lassen will, aber nicht kann, weil sie unrecht gehandelt hat.
Muss ich noch mehr sagen?Was für eine dramabeladene Schmonzette.(Und warum ich das Buch zu Ende gebracht habe, frage ich mich auch gerade.
I read this aloud to my 9, 5, and 3-year-old boys. We all enjoyed it.
A childhood classic re visited after my nephew read it and loved it. I still loved it just as much as I did as a child.
When we want to illuminate a dark room, we do not try to chase away the darkness before letting in the light. We simply open the window, and the light comes in. And when the light comes in, the darkness disappears. In the same way, we should not try to cast out the fear and anger in our hearts by sheer will and before we accept love and forgiveness. "Perfect love casts out fear." That is what I learned from this book. It is a beautiful and convincing story, and it means a great deal to me.
We had some wonderful discussions as a family after we finished on what a life belonging to Christ looks like. Such an excellent book, and I already can't wait to read this one again once my littlest kiddos get a bit older.
Eikä Sveitsin vuoristokylä-ympäristö kesäniittyineen, lumimyrskyineen ja jouluineen pettänyt tunnelmassa.
Tarinan "ilkimystä" käsitellään kuitenkin ilahduttavan ymmärtävästi, eikä asetelma ole lainkaan mustavalkoinen.
Viimeisen kuudenneksen aikana Jeesus-viittaukset kuitenkin käyvät tällaiselle nykyaikaiselle uskonnottomalle liian raskaskätiseksi ja tämä laski arvostelun neljästä tähdestä.
Harmitti, sillä tarina olisi ollut aivan mahtava, jos siitä olisi voinut aivan loppuosasta poistaa sieltä täältä muutamien lauseiden pätkiä, joissa puhutaan Jeesuksesta jo liiaksi ja toistellaan samantyyppistä sisältöä.
Kristillinen sanoma ei mielestäni kärsisi siitä vaan mieluumminkin kiteyttäisi sisältöä kirkkaammaksi.
Etenkin olisin poistanut viittaukset kohdasta, jossa lapsi tekee kauniin, epäitsekkään, mutta uhkarohkean teon, sillä se voisi mahdollisesti/implisiittisesti kannustaa "herran haltuun"-asenteeseen.
This may be a children's book but it hits on some hard truths, in the format of a very enjoyable and beautiful story (set in Switzerland, which makes it even better). I loved it!
https://www.facebook.com/groups/13827...
Reading this book: another superb Christmas tradition.
Please excuse any errors I make in spelling names.The story of Lucien, Annette, and Danny was compelling and well told.
The obvious sin of Lucien; the not-as-obvious, easy to ignore sin of Annette; and Danny's selfishness were delved into, rooted out, and exposed to the light of the work of Christ.
The story, itself, had a plot that kept the listener listening - what will Lucien do?
What will happen to Danny?
We want to know what happens to the characters, they are sympathetically portrayed - even Lucien whose sin is so external.
This story was written for children, so change is made simple and possible.
I still remember being sucked into the story, drawn into this beautiful world, and feeling like I was a part of it.
I'm so happy to say that this book was just as magical for me the second time around; in fact, I think it was even more meaningful since I was sharing the experience with my kids.
There's an amazing message of God's love and forgiveness that I've never seen told like this before.
If you're looking for a beautiful chiildren's Christmas story with a strong message about love and forgiveness, you need to read this book.
A wonderful read-aloud with the kids. Patricia St. John shows us the darkness that resides in even children's hearts and the power of Christ's love to drive out that darkness and bring forgiveness and reconciliation. Do be aware that the current in-print edition of this book has been "adapted" (i.e. dumbed down), so search out an older used edition. There was no need to tamper with this well-written story - even my five-year-old enjoyed it.
What a heart-warming, wholesome, and edifying book to go through with your kids. Many opportunities to stop and discuss life lessons. Very glad to have picked this one up. Highly recommended.
I just read this again to my daughter. I read it twice when I was in middle school. Charming story with very strong, albeit the controversial JudeoChristian value system (nothing wrong with that!).
I am torn about this book!
Whilst I appreciated the desire to illustrate and explore what difference being a Christian makes, I felt at times like there was too much explicit teaching in the dialogue which didn’t always flow naturally.
Having said that, I do recognise it is a children’s book which I’ve come to late, and if read as a family I can see how it could provoke helpful discussions surrounding living out a Christian faith and the difference it makes day-to-day.
I read this book as a child - several times if I remember correctly - and always found it both sad and beautiful.
Reading it as an adult it surprised me how religious it is because I didn't actually remember that.
Usually I don't like it when books preach too much and here it's borderline for me but I did't let it destroy my love of the book.
Mom loves the book as well and we've discussed in details, particularly this time of year because it always seem to be a Christmas book.
I wonder if kids today would like it.
Annette and Lucien are enemies. After Annette gets Lucien into trouble at school, he decides to get back at her by threatening the most precious thing in the world to her: her little brother Dani. But tragedy strikes. Annette is so filled with rage that she sets out to alienate and humiliate Lucien at every turn. As Lucien seeks to repent and restore, light floods both of their dark hearts and Christ proves that He makes all things new. This is one of the great book i read!!
I read this book with my ten-year-old son. We would read aloud in the evening, and my husband and our eight-year-old would often listen in. My eight-year old grew very emotional about some of the events in the book, and I had to promise him everything would work out okay.Overall, the story was engaging and uplifting, a great book to read as a family with older children (ages eight and up). Great lessons on forgiveness.
What a beautifully written book. I cried tears of joy in numerous parts. Such beauty and truth woven throughout. I will be re reading this with my children no doubt. This would make an excellent gift for any person, young or old. ❤️
A lovely story of three families in Switzerland—a story of anger, hurt, hatred, revenge, and of sacrifice, repentance, and redemption. I like to read it at Christmastime and think of gingerbread bears and little carved animals.
This was a great story with good character building. However it was biblically inaccurate in parts. Also a little too preachy. I do recommend it but beware of false teachings. It takes more than simply asking God into our heart to be saved.
