https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46231.The_Portable_Dorothy_Parker
today the Algonquin Hotel bar offers for the ultimate fan the "Mrs. Parker" = a $15 cosmopolitan. If you're as nerdy as me, you'll bring the book with you to read while you nurse the shit out of a week's food money.
Dorothy Parker, renowned wit, critic, poet and short-story writer.
In that it only gets really good near the end and you spend most of your time skipping over the bad bits.You see The Portable Dorothy Parker would be better titled The Short Stories of Dorothy Parker, interspersed by her Poetry with a paltry sampling of her Criticism, Reviews, Letters and Interviews.
I am first to admit that I am not a huge fan of Parker's short stories.
There's a reason why we don't immediately think 'short story writer' when we hear Parker's name.
This portable library of short stories, poems and reviews by the author, poet and critic Dorothy Parker was loaned by a friend who attached the following advice: "Parker might be best digested one bite at a time." Over the past two months, I've been doing that, eating lunch and digesting Parker's wit twenty pages at a time.My first impression, which I was proud of myself for making at the time, was that these pieces read like something that would appear in the New Yorker.
Returning now in my late 30s I can still appreciate the sardonic wit Parker is best known for, but I've had many more years of my own jading happen, and now reading Parker is sort of...
It's sort of like everyday life, if you're like me, where you hate the majority of people but still are incredibly sad by the things that you see happening to them.I never read the reviews back in the day, so I was glad to get out of the stories and into them now.
I recommend not listening to Morrissey while reading Dorothy Parker, because you will want to die by the end of the day.
So you want to write? Pick up this collection of poetry, short stories, essays, and criticism and bow to the master. Looking for a cutting remark? Dorothy Parker already said it, and said it best. But the sharpness of her critical knife and the sharpness of her wit do not undercut, and in fact enhance, the truly earned moments of deep feeling that keep her characters from being merely brittle.
I still like it a great deal.
Her writing has not changed, it is still rich and full of wonderful words arranged into beautiful, sentences, clever paragraphs.
The whole work still has great value.
Dorothy Parker's legendary acerbic wit amused me no end as a young woman.
What has changed is my perspective.
She remains a great read, but now I feel just a little bit sorrier for her than I did in younger days.
Parker was a legend in her time, and deservedly so.
Please read her many writings, and form your own opinion.
Well, I know just how she feels, which might be why I don't always enjoy this stuff so much. Reading Parker is a bit like having an IM conversation with myself, if I were a lot smarter, a much better writer, and a way bigger alcoholic.
In the introduction, the editor points out that Dorothy Parker considered it a great failure that she was never able to write a novel; after reading her short stories, I think I can see why.
However, I didn't see this as a failure; rather, I consider Parker a success in that she's one of the only writers I've come across so far who's been able to completely master the short story.I do confess that I skimmed over most of the poetry (perhaps I'll go back and read it someday, but poetry just can't hold my attention before bed), and while there were some nice lines and some interesting insights into her personal life contained within her letters, some of those included were so pointlessly incongruous that I wondered if I was going to stumble upon a chapter of her old dry-cleaning receipts next.
When you rehearse your list of loves to me, Oh, I can laugh and marvel, rapturous-eyed.
And you believe, so well I know my part, That I am gay as morning, light as snow, And all the straining things within my heart You'll never know.
Oh, I can laugh and listen, when we meet, And you bring tales of fresh adventurings, -- Of ladies delicately indiscreet, Of lingering hands, and gently whispered things.
Thus do you want me -- marveling, gay, and true, Nor do you see my staring eyes of nights.
It's a constant concern: Are You In A Dorothy Parker Story?
It's a great story and absolutely dark as fuck, just pure nihilism.I'm pretty sure Graham Greene borrowed Hazel Morse for his character Ida Arnold in Brighton Rock, btw.I liked Arrangement in Black & White (racist lady is horrible), that was funny.You Were Perfectly Fine (drunk guy has a new girlfriend, oops) and The Telephone Call (he's not going to call), I didn't like so much.
If a man wrote these stories we'd call him gross.The Game, from Part II - not in Parker's original selection for the first Portable edition - is terrific.
A collection of Parker's short stories and poetry.
Still, there was plenty to enjoy in this collection.
And many of the stories did make me laugh.
It would be hard to not find someone you recognize in at least one of her stories.A common theme, however, seems to be finding a man, holding on to a man or suffering for men.
This made me wonder about Parker as a person and what inspired this pervading theme.
I'm sure there is an annotated edition with more information, but for now I am content with having finished the book and having enjoyed most of it.
I only read from page 445 to the end.
Her short stories take up the first several hundred pages.
The miscellaneous non-fiction pieces at the back of the book are the jewels in her scribbler's crown.
Parker was a very funny lady, and a brutally honest one as well.
Her writing has barbs, but it's all in fun, and she's just as likely to pick on herself as on anyone else.Alexander Woollcott once affectionately said of Dorothy Parker: "That bird only sings when she's unhappy." True perhaps, but what a voice.
Forget the short stories.
Read the non-fiction.
I'll start this by giving a little background to who Mrs. Parker was and why I think she is an important female writer to read.
You don't necessarily need to actually read her stuff unless you get interested in her life, but I still think she is someone people should know about, especially people who call them self a feminist.Overall I love Mrs. Parker's work.
However, read Dorothy Parker like look back in time a woman who said what she wanted and worked her ass off to make it anywhere.What fresh hell is this?
I'd been wanting to read some of her work for a while and am glad I finally picked up this book.This is a collection of short stories, many of which focus on the relationships between men and women.
Her sarcasm veers into near-meanness at times, but pulls back right at the line.This collection also includes poetry and "other writings" that are mainly essays and reviews.
There is a sense of ennui in short stories that is magnified in her poetry.
She writes in a more personal tone in these reviews and essays that is refreshing.I am so glad I finally read Parker; it was worth the wait.
No Rating. I read the select parts I was interested in this time. Her shorter poems I find to be fetching. Tart, witty, cynical but all human and humane. I read her best known short story "Big Blonde," an autobiographical, at least in part, writing. Great interview she gave for the The Paris Review. I have other titles waiting in my to-read queue, so I'll return and give a fuller reading.
"Big Blonde" is the best story in the book, and one of the greatest short stories ever written. Dorothy Parker is the greatest chick-lit writer of all time. If you like Louise Brooks movies you will kiss Dorothy's literary feet!
I have a major literary crush on Parker. I'm a sucker for a funny line, and Parker had a lot of those.
So würde Charlotte Roche schreiben, wenn sie nicht bescheuert wäre!
Depth and insight that cut to the bone with sarcasm and humor as a shot of vodka to numb the spirit; what a breathtaking combo.After reading a sampling of her stories, reviews and letters (GRUMBLE, GRUMBLE), I would say my love falls into the story category.
I honestly never took the time to research it because the slight against the general composition of the book wasn’t enough to send me on that journey.Her reviews were boring but I credit that to me not knowing the material she was reviewing.
Again, not wanting to devote the time to research every item she reviewed to see if her reviews matched my feelings of the material and so on.
that humbly lavesUntroubled sands, spread glittering and warm.I have a need of wilder, crueler waves;They sicken of the calm, who knew the storm.So let a love beat over me again,Loosing its million desperate breakers wide;Sudden and terrible to rise and wane;Roaring the heavens apart; a reckless tideThat casts upon the heart, as it recedes,Splinters and spars and dripping, salty weeds.”― Dorothy Parker, The Portable Dorothy Parker.
<3 And....and in a superbly brilliant and outstanding way:“Travel, trouble, music, art, a kiss, a frock, a rhyme --I never said they feed my heart, but still they pass my time.”― Dorothy Parker, The Portable Dorothy Parker.
I love how mean she was, and she was a fabulous letter-writer: funny, frank and gossipy.
Her poetry and short stories do get a bit samey when read all at one go -- themes recur -- but she's such an entertaining writer that it doesn't much matter.It pleases me that she took up the mantle when P.
It amuses me that, like Wodehouse, she loathed A.
I was surprised when I read her letters that she got so miserable over men -- one thinks of her as being eternally self-sufficient and witty, never discomposed -- but it really shouldn't have been a surprise, considering the stuff she wrote.
I am so glad that I read this book!I have read some of Dorothy Parker's verse (who has not?), and some anecdotes from her life and was intrigued by her.
This volume includes verse (she did not consider her writings "poetry"), short stories, magazine articles, book and theatre reviews and a collection of letters.
The short stories were my favorite part!
I feel like it gives her stories a unique rhythm and really focuses on character.
The stories and the verses are humorous, yet sad.
Her writing is entertaining, engaging and insightful.
I feel like a better person for having read Dorothy Parker.
Lover her. Hate her. Her poetry is always sardonic fun."Now it’s over, and now it’s done;Why does everything look the same?Just as bright, the unheeding sun,—Can’t it see that the parting came?People hurry and work and swear,Laugh and grumble and die and wed,Ponder what they will eat and wear,—Don’t they know that our love is dead?Just as busy, the crowded street;Cars and wagons go rolling on,Children chuckle, and lovers meet,—Don’t they know that our love is gone?No one pauses to pay a tear;None walks slow, for the love that’s through,—I might mention, my recent dear,I’ve reverted to normal, too."
3-3.5I love Dorothy Parkers wit. I really enjoyed some of the stories, and others felt like they droned on and were similar to previous stories. I think eliminating some of the stories or not reading this book all at once, but a story once in awhile would remedy that problem. The end of the book is interesting and more serious. It speaks to DP's political statements. I may try to read this again, breaking it up into small pieces, one story every once in awhile. I think it's an important piece of American history through the eyes of a woman.
Witty? Hmmm, how about erudite, clever, and ahead of her time... Dorothy Parker had much to say about 20th century married life and said so when such things were not talked about. She was known as the "wittiest woman in America" and after reading this collection of her work I understand why she disliked the moniker. Her stories read more bittersweet than witty and are a glimpse into an era with rigid roles.
I was really obsessed with Dorothy Parker and the whole Algonquin Round Table in high school. I've read most of this book, maybe not all of the short stories. I always liked her play reviews the best, where she was truly snarky and not just sort of a 1920's version of emo; all whiny and overly ironic and desparate for attention. This collected edition has a lot of her play reviews, most of her poetry and I think all of her short stories.
I think I'll finally move this over to the "read" shelf. I didn't read every single page of this book. I love Dorothy Parker and think she is witty and clever. But reading every single thing she ever wrote was a bit wearing and started to feel repetitive and her humor even started to seem a bit mean.
Dorothy Parker kicks so much ass that I want to re-incarnate as a man, go back in time, and sleep with her. Just so I can say I did. Dorothy Parker is one of the wittiest people that lived, and her poetry and stories are so simple that any half-wit could understand it (heehee) and appreciate her genius. Dorothy rocks!
I'm cheating - I've read The Collected Dorothy Parker so counting this to bulk up my meagre 500 Great Books by Women score
2016. Good start.
