https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847235.Daughter_of_the_Mountains
This is one of my favorite childhood reads.
I loved reading about another girl in a culture so very far away and so very different from my own, yet she had some of the very same qualities I possess and she made me feel so appreciative for the things I have.
The descriptions of the little mountain village, the people, the food and the region in general were so vivid, I finished the book with a new understanding a place that had been very foreign to me before.
I often remember this book with fondness and I have reread it several times.
Cute book, but, there are some mistakes that bother me when I see them in historical fiction. For instance, Momo sees the monkeys swinging by their tails from tree to tree. However, she is in India and Old World monkeys do not have prehensile tails. Additionally the book states that she takes tsampa beads with her and states that they are dried yak cheese. Tsampa is a roasted grain product. Churpi seems to be the most common name for dried yak cheese. However, the book is pretty nicely paced and entertaining. I did enjoy reading it even with those discrepancies.
I randomly found this book at a Goodwill when I was like, eight years old maybe.
At this point I had not the first clue about any type of life outside my own very narrow experience, and the descriptions and details about Tibet and India blew my mind.
It's not written by someone from there, so I don't know if everything is completely accurate or not, but the sheer mind-broadening effect of encountering so many new concepts was unforgettable to me as a kid.
that's the way I WANT everything to work out in my children's books, thank you.)
Even more, the faith and religious values of the Tibetan people are also demonstrated and to a great extend, the author shows the importance of spiritual foundations in human determination.CONS: The only "con" I can think of is the fact that the story is not totally resolved.
[Beginning of spoiler] Although at the end, Momo recovers her dog, one wonders how can she possibly make it back home by herself and this time carrying an expensive dog along [end of spoiler].Conclusion: This is an excellent reading for families.
Read it, you will enjoy the story and be inspired by it.
Contender for 12/13 read-aloud. Set in Tibet/India. Lots of learning about a different culture, but too long for our purposes.Sweet little book. My 10 yo will love it. It was really fun, but if my 10 yo ran off down the mountain after her dog without my permission I might kill her. I think it would be delightful for most children. Loved the feel of the scenery & people of far-away places. Rankin did a good job of setting the stage.
I really liked the insights into the Himalayas and thought it was a well-written story.
I can't remember why I hated this book, but I hated it. And so did Leina. If anyone can remember why this book was awful please remind us.
"Momo has always wanted a Lhasa terrier--a dog like the ones the Buddhist priests hold sacred in their temples.
Her dream is realized when a trader brings Pempa to her parents' tea house.
But after a band of robbers steals the valuable dog and quickly escapes with him into the mountains.
Momo is determined to catch them and recover her beloved Pempa.
Momo undertakes a dangerous journey from the mountains of Tibet to the city of Calcutta, in search of her stolen dog Pempa."A delightful and very heartwarming little story.
Read this with my 8 year-old daughter. It was okay. The story was pretty predictable and unbelievable, but the best part about it was getting to learn about the Tibetan culture of the small mountain communities there. It included a lot of their religious customs, as well as some customs of India. While at times it was a bit wordy for my daughter (causing me to stop and explain passages), it was interesting.
Delightful!
3.5⭐️
Do I think it’s likely that a little girl would be successful on the massive trek she takes in this book to rescue her kidnapped dog?
No, it’s not believable, and to that end it was not enjoyable to read.
Description of seltzer “soda” water: “This is the magic of the English white-faced fold, whom, along with all foreign unbelievers, we forbid entrance into our holy land of Tibet.
By their magic this marble and this wire clamp hold the demon in the water till the clamp is lifted.
Momo is really a sweet little dumpling, which the Tibetans like to eat better than anything.”“names are very important in Tibet.
The characters come to life, and you really enjoy all the good and bad aspects of them.One thing about the book is that a whole heck of a lot works in her favor.
It seems the author is trying to portray the British in India as a group of rich people whose whole existence is to make the lives of the poor Indians better.
I do find it ironic that we find this so soon after the British were ousted.Nonetheless, it is a good sweet book and an enjoyable read - even for today's readers I think because enough happens to keep you from getting bored.
Momo has wanted only one thing in her whole life, a red gold Lhasa Terrier like the one which lives in the Tibetian temple her family worships at.
A trader from the Great Trade Route gives her one, but her happiness is destroyed when the dog, Pempa, is stolen.
She takes the Great Trade Route down from the lofty heights of Tibet into the plains of India in a desperate attempt to save her dog.This story gave just wonderful details of the Tibetian way of life, a rare book topic.
Also, the descriptions of the landscape as Momo travels from the cold heights of Tibet into the tropical India is breathtaking.
Boooooooorrrrriiiingggggg. And repetitive. I wish she would stop calling "PEMMMPAAAAA" all the time and focus more on finding him. I hate books that take the whole story for her to find what she's looking for (or he, or both - e.g.  Adam of the Road  and  The Ramsay Scallop ).
For a book written in the 1930's and aimed at children, this book was surprisingly non-biased towards the cultures and religions presented (Although the white magistrate and wife are "highly regarded by all"). The little girl in the story travels from the high peaks of the Himalya to Calcutta to retrieve her stolen dog--along the way she encounters various cultures, terrain and languages. Although it is unlikely that a girl along would actually be allowed (or survive) such a trip, the adventures and people she encounters make for a fine read.
I picked this book up at a Scholastic book fair as a child. It was my first historical fiction adventure chapter book. Momo travels from the mountain passes of Tibet to the sweltering city of Calcutta in search of her stolen dog Pempa. Younger readers will find the languages and setting challenging if they are not familiar with Tibet & India. Buddhism is also an important component to the story which may be difficult for readers to understand.
I read this book as a child and it inspired my grown-up solo trip to Tibet! The author did an amazing job of making an exotic culture come alive and I was astounded to recognize so many of the images and personalities so many years later. The experience of backpacking up in "The Roof of the World" was life-changing. After re-reading it, I can say that the style is a bit dated, but perfect for a child who loves her dog. :)
Rated PG.I actually had so much fun with this book. The cover is interesting, and it is unlike anything I had expected. To illustrated, this seems a lot like Where the Red Fern Grows. It is the story of a young Tibetan girl's longing for a dog--and not just any dog, but a Lhasa terrier. She is willing to do anything to get one, but once she does, it is stolen! Momo immediately sets out on a journey to find and rescue her stolen dog, and sees the world on the way.
I loved this one when I was about 12. Read it several times. As an adult, I couldn't remember the title, and searched for a long time, to finally find it among my recommendations here on goodreads! Yay! Just finished it again. Makes me smile that what I really latched on to about this book is the young girl's epic journey, I had even forgotten there was a dog involved. Memory is a funny thing.
I read this when I was young, at a time when I knew nothing about Tibet, and very little about that area of the world. It was an eye-opening experience and I remember learning a bit about karma and reincarnation. Momo was a strong character, and I still remember Momo's thoughts about a lady she thought was close to acheiving enlightenment and the English lady at the end of the book who had the dog.
Like another reviewer, I read this book in junior high and never forgot it. I remember trying to make hot buttered tea, as the heroine drinks it all the time; I found it undrinkable. My granddaughter has a Lhasa Apso now and I've been trying to find the book - 7th grade was 45 years ago and I'd forgotten the title. Thanks to many online searches using: dog, Tibet, girl, childrens' book etc. here it is and I'm ordering it for her today.
I enjoyed this story and was amazed at the young girls faith and courage in retrieving her stolen dog.I felt there was a little too much description of the surroundings in the book. This would probably be more interesting to a reader that likes to be submerged in the culture and environment of the story line. That is not me! I usually find myself scanning for the next conversation, and like the story to lead me through it with action.
This book was part of our assigned reading for home school through Sonlight. The story line and character development were fine; it was the endless descriptions and boring details that just about drove me crazy! By the end of it, I was ready to beat my head against the wall. I wanted PLOT not endless descriptions of each flower Momo encountered as she walked along the path. Maddening, really.
Cute book, with a lot of detail about Tibetan and Indian culture.Momo has a wish to own a golden Lhasa terrier, she doesn't give up until she obtains that dog! When she finally gets the dog, he is stolen! Momo then embarks on a cross-country adventure to get her dog back. Her strong determination and resolve are an important lesson for any child, as well as her good character.
Going through the Newbery medals (winner and honors) I'm loving these books from the 40s where kids just go off and have adventures with the understanding that their parents have a vague idea of where and what they're doing. I loved Momo and her determination and all those who helped her on her journey.
This delightful book tells the story of Momo, a Tibetan girl who wants a golden terrier more than anything. It is unclear if her dog is a Lhasa apso or a Tibetan terrier. Once she gets the dog, he is stolen and Momo treks off over the mountains alone, to find the thief and get her dog back.I found the book both informative on Tibetan culture and a good story.
This was a pretty good book. Maybe many kids of today will get bored though because of the cultural references are hard to relate to, at least in the West, but I thought it was fine and actually refreshing.The most prominent example would be "Lama," which I initially thought was an alternate spelling of "llama," but turned out to be a kind of priest/preacher/monk type of thing. :P
I enjoyed this book as a child. With a character obsessed with getting a dog, I could relate. I thought the first part was fanstastic -the explanation of the scenery and life growing up in Tibet, complete with beautiful illustrations. I didn't like the adventure part of the story as much because it was all action, and everything always worked out perfectly.
After reading this book, I sat back and thought, "Why the heck would anyone want their dog this badly?!?!"While Momo devotes herself to getting her dog, then getting the dog BACK, I felt like some of the book was listless and had no purpose. Everything was boringly elaborated, which made it a drag to read.
