https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2565455-twilight-in-the-forbidden-city
A fairly difficult read for me.
I wish I had a better understanding of the people and events of the day.
I also wish the book would be republished with proper pinyin (with tones) for all names instead of whatever system he used.
I can't figure out how to pronounce most proper nouns, which drives me nuts.
There are so many people that I wish there were a quick reference list of who's who, and maybe some background on each.
I guess that's what you get form a first person account.

她可以摒弃所有的皇室成员，任命一个摄政委员会，该委员会由5个人组成，两个满族人（但不能有皇族），其余的三人是汉人。这5个人需要极高的才干和极开明的态度，这样一来，摄政委员会中的汉人超过了满人，将可以堵住孙逸仙等人的反满口实。百年过后再读此书，百味呈杂。悠悠我大清，泣涕湿襟裳。嗟乎哉！
One of the few if not the only true remaining accounts of the last days of the forbidden city. Johnston was the last emperor's tutor (portrayed by Peter O'Toole in the movie). Since Johnston was a westerner, his records were not destroyed by Mao in the communist attempt to destroy Chinese history.
A rather illuminating look at the imperial court, but I think Johnston's view of Pu Yi was rather too positive. But he was proven correct that Pu Yi's unideal youth and unhealthy surrounding ultimately had a negative effect.The book is also a good look at the failure of republicanism in China, and put Sun Yat Sen in a rather bad light. I need another view, though, just to balance things.
I have read this book when I was 15 years old. I could know about forbidden city and this twisted world. Author was teacher of emperor Pu-Yi, so he wrote his experiences in detail. But in Japanese translation, publisher twisted origin, so I recommend to read by English.
Very important book if you told about WW2 in China. And history about puppet emperor Pu-Yi his tragedy and his happiness as young dreamer. You can see what is real loneliness life emperor was living.
Inside look at the last Emperor of China, as seen and recounted by his personal tutor. Fascinating!
It's a bit of a slog (the writing's stiff), but it forms the basis for a portion of the Bertolucci film, "The Last Emperor" and provides more context for the teacher's role in the royal household.
Far better than I expected from a stuffy, Scottish nobleman.
I hope you all know that he turned out to be a complete fraud.
A rare gem, pretty byzantine at points, but a readable and fascinating story.
Excellent bonus chapter of when Johnson met the 13th Dalai Lama!
Since I decided to be a chaperone for Jenny's trip to China in the spring, I figure I should learn some more about the country. This is a recommendation from http://wikitravel.org/en/China.
