https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109243.Swamp_Thing_Vol_4
A truly masterpiece! This Hardcover edition collects "Swamp Thing" #43-50.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrators: Stephen Bissette, John Totleben & Stan Woch THE WRITING FLOURISHES In this fourth hardcover edition you will find easily many of the best stories of the amazing run by Alan Moore on Swamp Thing.The famous story like "The Parliament of the Trees" which is one of the treasures in the history of comic books.Also, you will have here "The End" where a whole cast of guest charac
This Hardcover edition collects "Swamp Thing" #43-50.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrators: Stephen Bissette, John Totleben & Stan Woch
A real tribute of a writer to another, that only you'd realize if you have read both stories on each sagas.Definitely, the seed of the saga of Swamp Thing flourished and you can enjoy the fruit of it.
A lot of stuff is happening in this volume, but the resolution of the John Constantine trip across Amerika--Moore called it "American Gothic," and talked about it as "a kind of Ramsey Campbell version of Easy Rider," a real horror show--is "Ghost Dance," inspired by a story he had heard of the horrific existence of Sarah Winchester--yes, that Winchester, of the rifle family fame--who was haunted by the ghosts of all the millions of people killed by her family's guns.
Moore, never one to shy away from a conflict, takes on the NRA and America's love affair with gun violence.
I mean the final meeting with the Parliament of Trees was cool for happening, but it wasn't really satisfying.
The gathering storm of Crisis, pulling together all the magical types and all of heaven and hell and space and time, culminated in...
And it was freaking resolved with a (view spoiler)[Handshake????
(hide spoiler)] Please.And yet with that freaking ending, I'm still of two minds.
I was fully invested even when I was horrified by what happened to Abs. What the hell, people.
We need to lock away Lois for her thing with that freaking alien, too.
Consorting with *unnatural* types and all.
What freaking horrible laws.
The overarching story that was begun in the last collection is (mostly) resolved here.
(view spoiler)[Swamp Thing's unease around Alexander Luthor is hilarious in hindsight, though there's no way Moore could have known what would eventually happen with him.
(hide spoiler)] Instead, Swamp Thing, Constantine, and a host of DC's magically oriented characters band together to stop an ancient evil force.
The stand alone stories that took up most of the first half were far better, and intensely creepy.
Boogeyman and Ghost Dance were more than worth the price of admission, and good enough by far to overcome the underwhelming and sometimes overcrowded Big Event.
I'm also not too too much of a fan of cataclysmic happenings (easy heightened suspense, but where's the story going to go afterwards?) and my interest and admiration was tested occasionally within the exposition issues, though honestly a lot of the urgency building up with the past score of issues was lost on me because I read the last volume so long ago, and have forgotten past events or they're all muddled with the Constantine comic book in my head...
nonetheless, I enjoyed the concluding chapter of this volume, where Moore evokes I think Arthurian elements and Children's Book language to great effect.
Swamp Thing is a badass. I can't believe everybody isn't talking about him. He's kind of like a zen Hulk. Kind of. I always love graphic novel cameos. This one had plenty. Very very cool.
I just can't get enough of Alan Moore.
I've never read anything of his that hasn't changed my world.
Looking over the last few volumes, you'll see that I gave it 3s and 4s, and that's largely because Alan Moore should really not be reviewed on an episodic basis.
The man is a master at tying it all together at the end, and that makes the previous work in the series appear better in retrospect.I feel like I don't want to reveal any more about it, except to say that this comic book about a swamp monster can change the way you see the world.
Giving this four stars still, but this volume was as great...I think. I like the last two issues a lot though. DC does magic/occult stuff well.
Not my favorite volume of Moore's Swamp Thing run.
If I understood Zatanna, Dr. Fate, Deadman, Dr. Occult, Mento, or the Spectre as well as I understand Swamp Thing, John Constantine, or the Phantom Stranger, I may have enjoyed this a lot more.
)The cool thing about all this occult content is that one begins to see in this early work the blueprint for Promethia.
And when it comes down to it, that is why I enjoy Moore's early work so much: it allows greater appreciation for where he was coming from when he wrote his best stuff.
Enjoyed this volume more than any of the others. So many of the previous arcs now make sense in how they lead to the climax. What amazed me was that this plot had the potential to be so hokey, and yet Moore somehow pulls off the big confrontation in a way that leaves you going “mmmm...ok....I can get behind that”. What an imagination he has and I now see how this series was a game changer. No idea where it’s going from here!
What is virtue, consciousness, the foundation of reality, and the ability to see past our own mortal limits. Swamp Thing seems offer, if not the answers, at least an attempt to understand these questions and the implications it has on our real life.It also has a wonderful story about the problems with ingesting hallucinatory substances without checking on children and the elderly first, but that's for a later essay.
Keeps getting better and better. And continuously impressed me bc of how good it is. This is not the swamp thing most people think of when they hear his name. Not the one from the movies. This swamp thing is very existential and thought-provoking. 5 stars.
The longer this series has developed the better it has got. Wonderful scenes with the Parliament of Trees and the epic finalé. Glad I persisted after volume 1.
In his unpredictability, we come to find new and inspiring sides of ourselves, and of comics, and of others.If Morrison has lived his entire career as the incorrigible teenager of comics, inspiring in his gusto but disappointing in his ego, then Moore has always been the old man of comics, a crafty wizard who knows things we don't want to know, who leads us patiently through our wide-eyed bumbling and self-absorption, past the explosions and gun battles, and into our own back yard to show us something beautiful that was there the whole time.We'll wonder why he doesn't want our thanks.
Alan Moore tem declarado de forma consistente o seu desprezo pelo género super - heróis nos comics.
Sobre a narrativa comum aos títulos da DC, criou uma conspiração dominada por uma sociedade secreta de feiticeiros, que aproveita o caos dos eventos para acordar o mal absoluto.
Moore sublinha o dualismo absurdo do bem e do mal numa série de histórias que, pegando no arco American Gothic, exploram a interdependência destes dois conceitos.
Este enfrenta o mal com uma parábola do húmus de matéria em decomposição que permite o viço da vida.
Back before Alan Moore took himself way too seriously, he did this thing called writing comic books.
And Swamp Thing was ground zero for his American influence.Sure, he had V for Vendetta and Marvelman over in the UK (both later being reprinted in the US), and Watchmen was on the horizon.
But it was Swamp Thing that put Moore on the radar for most US fans.This volume wraps up one heck of a storyline.
Still Moore's "not particularly well" is still better than 80% of writers' "really good".Kudos have to go out to his Crisis on Infinite Earths tie-in.
Moore, Bissette and Totleben continue to broaden the epic scope of the Swamp Thing title by incorporating the DC Crisis, bringing the apocalypse to a head.
While Moore is at the height of his powers with such grand sweeping plots, Swamp Thing begins to be hindered by the rest of the DC Universe's concerns.
I'd much prefer a straight Swamp Thing graphic novel, where Moore is given free reign with all of his characters.43.
In certain ways, Moore and Swamp Thing are too good for the sensationalism of the DC Crisis and Constantine, though the Invunche seems like a perfect enemy.
If I could wish a book into existance it would be a collected DC ABSOLUTE or omnibus version of Alan
Everyone's got their favorite Alan Moore comic, and I love Watchmen as much as the next guy, but for me his very best work might be his acclaimed run on Swamp Thing, which is finally being re-released in classy hardcover formats. And so I am, of course, picking them all up. I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that these stories changed comics, any more than I think it's an exaggeration to say that they're some of the best horror writing that's ever been done. Top notch stuff.
I like the cool pooling together of all of D.C. Mystics to fight this kind of evil shadow of hell manifestation. We see more of John Constantines life, more of Abby dealing with the ramifications of being married to Swamp Thing, the cool tree spirits of when Swamp thing becomes rooted and part of the earth and more realization of his power once he gets over not being human. Honestly, reading Sandman first detracts from these stories since he stole from so much in this volume! But really it's great and weird and sad and funny and 😎
I'm glad I decided to pick these volumes up.
I don't know why I doubted if I would like it, especially with Moore involved, but it's turning out to be one that I look most forward to in getting.
This volume is dark as it takes place in the spiritual realm.
The battle to stop an all-destroying force in the land of the dead is fought and only Swamp Thing can stop it.
There's great cameos, the Spectre, the Demon Etrigan, the Stranger, Deadman, and others.
It all reads like a precursor the Sandman, but has it's own strength and story.
The first story about the hippie who finds and picks up a piece of Swamp Thing is wonderful. The reactions of the two people who eat it for different reasons are great stories and justice. The story about the haunted house was also excellent. The main story about the battle between good and evil was only so-so. Swamp Things encounter with the adversary was foreshadowed way too much.
I prefer the small, self-contained, unconventional little stories in this saga. The big, horror-drenched epic battle of good and evil that dominates most of this volume is typical of the kind of swamp thing stories that i find the least compelling. Hopefully the next volume will invest more into invention and feeling rather than just sheer scale like this one did.
There's some really great stuff in this collection, with the best probably being the haunted house story. The lead up to the apocalypse is great, but the apocalypse itself if a bit of a letdown. I wasn't expecting a repeat of the central conceit of "Under the Pyramids" by Lovecraft/Houdini.
If anyone ever asks you to recommend a comic that features haunted houses, metaphysics and a delicious lampooning of tabloid papers - then look no further...
4 1/2 stars
Alan Moore’s run on Swamp Thing has its flaws but the combined weight of the work, the heavy prose style and the imaginative approach to panel layout and artwork combine to make this a definitive work of comic book genius.Some background.
From this revelatory moment we are introduced to a deep and convoluted mythology that spans the entire run – the concept of the Green, plant elementals and the interconnectedness of plant life over the world.A particularly telling sequence occurs towards the end of one of the earlier arcs in the run when The Swamp Thing and his human paramour – Abigail consummate their relationship.
Windfall Prva priča četvrte knjige u kojoj nema Swamp Thinga.
Constantine je Swamp Thinga odveo na jedan satelit gdje je Batman i ostala ekipa.
Constantine treba Swamp Thinga zbog toga što je duhovna dimenzija u opasnosti i pokazuje mu užase koji će se dogoditi a kasije mu priča o vješticima i kako će izbrisati tu sliku Zemlje nakon tog velikog događaja i prizvati neko moćno biće.
Odnos Swamp Thinga i Constantinea mi je sve bolji i bolji.
Na kraju Swamp Thing dobrovoljno uđe u tminu i postavi mu pitanje što je zlo.
Kaže da ne zna što je zlo, ali da tako mora biti i tmina ga pusti.
Por eso les transcribimos aquí la introducción de este mismo tomo (en su edición española de ECC) a cargo de nada menos que el pollo de Alan Moore:  Neil Gaiman.La Cosa del Pantano de Alan Moore (prólogo)Bueno, ¿qué queréis saber?Podríamos hablar de la filosofía que hay detrás de todo esto, del clímax de la trama Gótico americano que empezó en Saga of the Swamp Thing núm.
Additionally, Swamp Thing continues to find new ways to disgust us by flowing out from a bathroom sewer drain."Ghost Dance," with art by Stan Woch and Alfredo Alcala, uses the real-life Winchester House (here disguised as a run-down mansion) as the inspiration for a scary allegory about the horrors of guns.The next five stories are tie-ins, to greater or lesser extent, to Crisis on Infinite Earths, DC's mid-1980s attempt to reboot their entire line.
But before Swamp Thing can do that, he goes through some revelations in "The Parliament of Trees" (art by Stan Woch and Ron Randall), a key issue in Moore's run.
