https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/506915.Old_Jules
The guy went through three wives before finally settling down with Mary (the author's mother) who poured her life into his.
Not to spoil anything, but when Old Jules gets snakebit out in the back of beyond he shoots off the venomous tissue before making his eight-year-old Marie drive hell for leather across the sandhills for help with him bouncing around in the buggy drifting in and out of consciousness.There are some great vignettes of pioneer life: mail order brides, wars over the barbed wire, friendships formed with the Ogalala, snake bites, hornswoggling a post office into the farm, plum planting, murder, neighbors moved to the asylum and blizzards.
Old Jules is a biography of an American pioneer, written by his daughter Mari and published in 1937.
I will say it is one of the greatest books I’ve read about a place.“At the potash towns the old plants loomed gaunt, fire-stripped, the boilers and pipings red-rusted, the large chimneys tumbled down to piles of brick.
On all sides the hills pushed in.”The place is the Sand Hills of Nebraska and the time is from the 1880-1928, the year in which Old Jules dies.
Old Jules was born in Switzerland in the 1850s to a bourgeois family.
He hopes his Swiss sweetheart Rosalie will join him.**Some minor spoilers below**In this masterful account of her father's life, Mari Sandoz records the next fifty years of life in the panhandle of Nebraska, in the far northwest of the state in the sandhills, the high country, the area in close proximity to the Indian wars that were closing as Old Jules arrives (he is an eyewitness to the Wounded Knee massacare site the next day when it was still strewn with the bodies of Native women and children).
He fights ranchers, the government, his fellow settlers (even old friends).
Though Jules made many positive contributions to the early settlement of Nebraska he was more than a disagreeable person; physical violence with his wife and six little children was his right, he thought.
His daughter seems to be defending a father who was emotionally and physically cruel as do many abused children.This quote gives pause for thought: "If you look into history you will find that vision is always accompanied by a degree of thoughtlessness, impatience, and even intolerance for others."The author herself suggested that the book was written "for a limited audience, people who would understand how truly it portrays the physical and cultural heritages of the prairie homesteading era."
Great imagery and of course characters. So Depressing at times I can’t really say I “enjoyed” it, but it’s quite a tale. I thought I had read it many years ago, but it didn’t seem at all familiar.
He was a truly complex person: a visionary, who wanted the west to be a place where people could come and live their lives in freedom and prosperity, who never looked at money as the result of his tireless efforts to locate land for others; a self-taught horticulturalist who experimented in grafting and grew an orchard of fruit trees that benefitted his entire area; a man who wanted to be the postmaster of his area, and little more, who believed in reading and in writing letters to Washington to get things done.
Old Jules was a mean son of a bitch.
He ended up having four wives.
He treated his wives barely better than he treated his stock.
Like any deep thinking man worth his salt, he had no use for religion or the sky pilots religion spawned.He dealt with greedy cattlemen and defended the hard working poor.
He has a man of letters and wrote to anyone who had a sympathetic ear for the settlers plight and the vermin that took advantage of them.
He was a dichotomy; as mean as he was, he was also very generous.
A biography of author Mari Sandoz' father, a Swiss immigrant who helped settle Nebraska in the late 1800s.Definitely a warts-and-all picture, and with a lot of warts.
Sandoz, who hated her father for years, spent a long time writing, re-writing, and coming to terms with him.
The result gives, I think, a very good picture not just of the early settlement of the West, but of a class of people who made for successful pioneers -- stubborn, too proud to admit failure, and unable to "play well with others".
Terrific writing, great material.
Certainly on my list of best books I've ever read.
The story lags in the second quarter of the book but becomes brisk and and engaging after Old Jules's marriage to Mary; the rearing of their children, including the author; and the arrival of modernity on the prairie.Old Jules is portrayed as an explosive, deeply flawed (and self-declared) genius.
His daughter tells his story with depth and precision--and skewers him not with screeds but with subtlety, as when she quotes a man late in the book asking Old Jules, "Why did you have to spend your whole life fighting over stupid things?" That question is the essence of Mari Sandoz's exploration of her father's puzzling life.
Being from Nebraska, I read Mari Sandoz at an early age.
later, I am reading with more understanding.
She really portrays early settlement in Western Nebraska and Old Jules was a big part of it.
Her writing is beautifully descriptive and accurate.
Old Jules was very intelligent and down right mean!
I find it difficult to see how Ms. Sandoz could ever come to terms with his treatment of her and the family.
I have read several of her books over the years and admire her writing no matter the subject.
You won't be disappointed reading any one or more of her works.
I read this biography of Mari Sandoz's father, Old Jules, years ago when I was in high school and maybe visiting my Nebraska relatives.
I remember really liking it then.
Now, some 40 years later, I found it hard to read.
Old Jules is a somewhat abusive man, which does not help.
It does give a good flavor of the white settlement of the northwestern Panhandle of Nebraska from about 1880 through 1928 and the quirks of this very independent Swiss immigrant are brought out well.
I wish I had liked the book this second time through as much as I remember liking it as a teenager.
Old Jules is non fiction written by Old Jules daughter. I admired the toughness of the characters through drought, blizzards and snakebites but the fact that he whipped his fourth wife and daughter with a buggy whip, made my stomach churn.The writing itself was terrible with disjointed sentences, jumped weirdly from one part to the next and I honestly thought this was a poor translation from another foreign language.Big disappointment.
A realistic viewpoint of early Plains settlers and Nebraska history. Women and children worked like dogs and were beaten into submission. Life was hard. Families had to defend their land. People ended up in asylums. Men dominated any way they could. This book was utterly intense, sometimes heavily detailed, and I could only read a chapter or two at a time. Old Jules was a narcissistic jerk. Mari Sandoz is a sacred truth teller, and this is her 1935 masterpiece.
So American. So beautiful. And by the way there are many spacious skies!Reading Sandoz is a little like looking at a Picasso or listening to Mozart! Nothing more to say, but you must read.
Interesting story about a far different time in this country.
A well-written and engaging account of the hardships and moral uncertainties of settling in the Nebraska Panhandle.
That was a bit of a struggle.
Good history, just had a hard time finishing. I wouldn't have read it had it not been the book club pick.

A well researched memoir by the daughter of the title character.
Significantly, the book brings light to the struggle that provided plot lines to so many westerns I watched as a kid: the cattle ranchers who guarded the free range versus the farmers who fenced off their fields from the trample and forage of range cattle.Surprising cameo appearances of several nationally important people from that late 19th and early 20th centuries helped connect the story to a timeline I was more familiar with.Read as a history or a family drama and be ready for a look into the world of the pioneers.
I finally finished this.
Whew.
It was not an easy read, either artistically or historically.
It read like it had been written by a woman for whom English is a second language, except that I don't think it is her second language.
I wish I'd liked it better, but the characters were a jumble, as was much of the history.
I kept thinking how the softies of these current generations would never have had the grit to make it through the early days of developing this country and sticking it out.
I gave this four stars because of the strong sense of place, time, and personalities, but I'd give it a three for the writing.
Sandoz mentions so many people, but doesn't always introduce them at the time they're first mentioned.
Then, the person may vanish from the story for several chapters and reappear briefly.
For a first time reader, I suggest not trying to keep straight all of these people.
I also wish that Mari Sandoz hadn't been discouraged from including much about her own story.
I would have liked to hear more of her own voice.
This was a book about Jules Ami Sandoz, a Swiss immigrant who helped to settle the Sand Hills of Nebraska in the late 1800's and early 1900's.
It was written by his daughter.
Jules had some strange ideas and was quite abusive to those he loved.
When people disagreed with him, he cut them out of his life.
He considered all cattlemen to be crooks and worked very hard to get rid of them.
He encouraged people to come to the Sand Hills hoping they would plants vegetable crops and orchards.
This book really gives the feel of the times.
This is the story of Mari Sandoz' father. Jules Sandoz was an immigrant who came to western Nebraska then wrote back to the Old World to try to drum up settlers for the area. He was not a very nice person but this books shows what it took to homestead in those days. I was particularly interested because my dad is from this area and my grandmother went to school (one room school house) with the Sandoz girls. A very worthwhile read about pioneer days. This book was originally published in 1935.
Since I grew up in Nebraska, and have been aware of Mari Sandoz since childhood, I was very pleased to have finally read one of her works. "Old Jules" was particularly important because it is a first-hand tale of growing up in a most difficult pioneer land--the Nebraska Sandhills. Jules Sandoz, Mari's father--an immigrant from Switzerland--was a complex person--tough, hard, violent, obsessed and Ms Sandoz navigated a very personal story in a quite objective third-person narrative, but her folksy prose touchingly soared near the end as she reflected on her father's life. Five stars !
As a piece of the cannon of plains literature (specifically Nebraska) I can attest that this book is important and adds an amazing amount of color and detail to the life of early settlers on the plains. I wouldn't necessarily recommend it as a book everyone would enjoy, but it has definitely added to my understanding of early Nebraska and the interesting, sometimes unbelievable, people who dared work to cultivate lasting white communities on the land.
Maybe it is not a fair rating because I couldn't even finish this book. I tried several times but only really got through about 100 pages. I did not care for old Jules nor did I like the writing. It did not feel real and I did not think that there was a flow to the story. Maybe that was just my brain jumping around due to boredom. This is supposed to be Mari Sandoz masterpiece........did she write anything else?
Anyone interested in stories about the early Great Plains settlers will find this book a must read. Old Jules' story is told by his daughter. No punches are withheld, and the man who emerges is simultaneously love-able and hate-able. Tough people settled and survived. The rest either died or left the plains of Nebraska....
I picked this book up as a teenager in a small service station somewhere in the middle of nowhere in Nebraska. I started reading it while sitting in the car on the way to the Black Hills. Reading this book while watching the landscape in which it was written pass by, was amazing. I have since re-read this book almost every year.
If you want to continue to harbor romantic notions about life on the frontier, don't read Old Jules. It is a straightforward account of a joyless life, particularly for women. Having been to that area of the Sandhills, I could easily picture the isolation and desolation described. It is amazing to me that Sandoz was able to tell the story with so little overt emotion.
