https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66470.Chromosome_6
Interesting topic, exciting storyline. Not my favorite by Cook though. It was okay.
The story line starts a bit slow, then becomes quite intriguing in the middle and then leads up to a rather unsatisfactory finish.Cook develops two parallel and intersecting plots about scientists in Equatorial Guinea who are frantically exploring the ethics of genetic engineering and medical examiners in New York who are stubbornly working on to determine the cause of death of a mysterious mobster-corpse.
All the given statements in the story are scientifically very sound except for the part where a medical examiner from New York would make a trip across the world to Africa sounds absurd to me.
But the whole idea that a medical examiner from New York would make a trip across the world to Africa, and even inviting his friends outside of his jobscope, who were not even main players in the main plot (and they just happily tagged along), just sounds really juvenile and surreal to me.
The whole trip of the 'New York team' to Africa and interactions with each other just didn't sit well with me.
I love his friendship with Jack.The ending was incredibly unsatisfactory though.
Maybe the numerous unanswered questions are answered in a later Robin Cook novel?
++(SPOILER ALERT AHEAD)++ You never learn what happened with GenSys, or Kevin, Melanie or Candace.
Did Kevin end up hooking up with one of them?
(Both?) What happens when Taylor Cabot learns the truth, as he surely had by the time the book ended (hell, the epilogue takes place a week later), What happened to Siegfried & Beltram & the others left behind, do they start over or face prosecution somewhere?
AAAHHH, SO MUCH IS LEFT UNANSWERED!!!!!
Cook stuffed an excruciating amount of failed attempts at finding clues to further the investigation.Kevin had the best character development.
I tried really hard, but couldn't find a reason for Candace to exist, except to constantly agree with Melanie and act as a wonder object for the bonobos.Also, why the hell would Warren and Natalie land themselves in the whole mess without any motivation?However, the most infuriating character development was of Melanie.
It seemed like the author lost interest in the novel by the time he reached the end, and wrapped it up hastily.
Also, fates of a lot of characters went unexplained; to the extent where I had a feeling that the novel was missing several pages in the end.
Robin Cook, se está convirtiendo en uno de mis favoritos de este género (aunque no he leído a otros 
After extracting the short arm of chromosome six, they would insert it into a bonobo, a ape-like creature that is like humans (DNA wise).
Kevin, one of the researchers, realizes this problem and investigates it.
Kevin believed that the short arm of chromosome 6 had human developmental traits.
I thought that this was significant because I think that this is when Kevin started to believe that the short arm of chromosome 6 really did have human developmental traits.
Una gran idea para un thriller médico donde la trama gira en torno a la prioridad económica de la medicina actual, con éste principio, organizaciones científicas, médicos inminentes y personas con gran influencia económica se unirán para crear y mantener un proyecto que va más allá del conocimiento científico y parámetros éticos y morales.Si bien es un drama atrapante,a mi parecer la excesiva cantidad de personajes secundarios y los cambios de perspectiva de la historia constantemente hizo a la historia algo lenta, restándole enormemente el gran impacto de emociones e intriga que podría haber ofrecido.
Thus Jack Stapleton and Laurie Montgomery (returning characters from other Cook novels) are drawn into something that ends up being much bigger than they could possibly imagine.The second story takes place in Africa.
Researchers there have developed a chromosome transfer process whereby chimp-like animals called bonobos could have their genetic makeup altered.
Towards the end, the stories collide as the New York team heads to Africa to get to the bottom of their autopsy mystery.
The Africa story was a bit harder to follow, and a bit more mundane, for the most part.I did not like how Cook handled the characters.
Like a bunch of doctors and basket ball players knocked down armed gangsters huh.Cook is basically a doc first than a author so I am giving it 5 stars no matter that this book ends with the worst epilogue I have read so far.
Nothing about what happened to the three some of Kevin, Melanie and Candace I was like emotionally curious to know that who will be the lucky one to hook with Kevin at the end but the book left me astonished when there wan nothing about them in the epilogue.
This was actually a re-read for me.
Kevin Marshall is a molecular biologist working in Equatorial Guinea.
He is able to manipulate Chromosome 6 of bonobos (ape-like creatures) and replace with human DNA.
This allows for humans to create their own organ donors (bonobos) and then the organs are harvested when needed.
When Kevin sees smoke on the isolated island where the bonobos are confined, he begins to wonder if the bonobos are developing human skills.
When he goes to the forbidden island with 2 female co-workers, they find that the bonobos have language skills, fire making capabilities and opposable thumbs.
This fast paced thriller by Robin Cook featuring jack and laurie is my first book in the series. I was quite impressed how the author has woven the story despite the fact that this book being quite technical. I would definitely recommend this book to people as the story is gripping and really interesting. have a look at the glossary behind or have a biology dictionary nearby before you start the book !!!
Once again Robin Cook tells us that we shouldn't fool with Mother Nature. There is always just enough possibility in what he is writing about to make you think that yes, somewhere in a lab somewhere, someone is trying to do just this. This one is genetics gone awry.I have read a lot of Dr. Cook's novels but Coma is still my favorite.
A typical and somewhat predictable thriller and almost science fiction, but with a difference. It is medical research and an evil multinational pitted against those with principles. And of course, those marvellous bonobos. Much of it is set in AFrica with steaming jungles and exotic non-western settings.
In this medical thriller Cook returns us to the characters who work in the NYC morgue. They share the scene with characters at a research complex on the west coast of Africa. In non-stop action, the two stories converge with a harrowing climax. I found the African part totally fascinating.
Chromosome 6 was one of the earliest Si Fi books I read. Robin Cook has done an excellent job here! The very idea of gene transplant which as hitherto a boring chapter in Science text books was suddenly cool and awesome! I thoroughly enjoyed reading the book!!
A thrilling page turner. With a riveting mix of murder, mystery, medical, adventure, action, gangland and science, this book will draw you in and then add a surprising take on genetic engineering that would put any ethics committee in a tizzy.
I did like the mysteries Jack and Laurie were trying to solve.
So, don't read this book if you like to be kept in the dark as much as the investigators are.I wasn't particularly fond of the whole "apes with a tiny bit of human DNA are people too" storyline.
Somewhere at the beginning of the book I got the impression Jack and Laurie were a couple, but absolutely nothing happened on that front.
Not a hug, not a kiss, not even an "I think we should see other people, because you've obviously completely forgotten you're supposed to be in love with me!"In summary: bad characters, bad science and a good mystery badly executed.
A molecular biologist has discovered a way to move a chromosome on a DNA strand in such a way as to make it possible to do trans species transplants.
A corporation seizes upon the idea and starts doing transplants for wealthy clients without the approval of any first world nation.
It chooses a very small impoverished country in Africa whose government is happy to see inflow of money regardless of the means.
However our sleuth coroners, Jack Stapleton and Laurie Montgomery, get their hands upon a mystery surrounding a crime family member, Carlo Franconi, and are determined to solve it whatever happens.
The plot is a bit ridiculous. Creating a protohuman from bonabo and human dna just so the rich can have an organ donor on standby... Does the bonobo then have all human organs? How long could a thing like that survive? The creator then sets them free in the jungles of Africa and the reader is supposed to sympathise and approve of this tremendously arrogant and stupid behaviour. Imagine how much havoc that would cause to the indigenous species of the area. Seems quite typical colonial thinking though.
This book had an interesting and, at the same time, disturbing storyline, as may of Robin Cooks books do. It had me hooked until the wimpy ending. There was a lot of build up and almost no resolution. What happened to all the evil and greedy people that were making piles of money on the backs of those poor primates? What happened to Kevin, Melanie, Candace? They were the mainstay for half the book and then no mention of what happened to them in the epilogue? That was a disappointing ending to be sure
A topic as interesting as transgenic transplants, and you think it can't get any better. With respect to the topic, the book holds your interest right till the end.If only the same thing could be said about the writing style. Considering that the protagonists and recurring characters of the author's other books are in their late thirties, it is very annoying to see them talk in a childish manner. Also the male lead Jack Stapleton's sense of humor can at best be described as sad.
Just like every other Cook's book. First 50 pages was a drag, after that you wont be able to put the book down. But I must say i am not very happy with the climax. Though the users are able to assume what must have been happened at the end, it would have been better if Cook was little more narrative and took that little extra effort to say How it all ended and i feel he should have given the reader the pleasure by telling how the Bad guys failed.
My last dystopian cloning thriller for now. While it moves along quickly enough, and the science was interesting- there did seem some plot issues. I think it's aged, I wouldn't think a giant illegal biotech corporation would bother having a secret monkey island in Africa to avoid the bad publicity if it was found out - so yes, this book is not dystopian enough! Also I would love a boss who would agree to let me go to Equatorial Guinea for work based on my say so.
Me lo sto trascinando dietro da tre giorni e – non me ne vogliano il buon Cook e la sua bella prosa – non posso proprio finirlo. È avvincente, ero curiosa, ma la curiosità non è sufficiente a proseguire. Ho trovato diversi svarioni (non me ne voglia nemmeno la Magrini che lo ha tradotto), ma tutto sommato è un buon prodotto. L’ho acquistato e volevo terminarlo, ma sarà per un’altra vita.
A friend recommended this book to me and I am so glad! This is a very interesting medical thriller with genetics going awry. Drs. Jack Stapleton and Laurie Montgomery have a body stolen from the autopsy lab, strange reports on a liver, and murders. What's not to like? I will read more in this series.
I was going to give this book 5 stars and I still do for 3/4th of the book but the ending was so abrupt and unsatisfactory. And for that 1/4th of the book (perhaps the most important part) this book deserves 3 stars. Still recommend it though- one of the coolest medical thrillers out there.
Uuh, woow.. i really liked the book, the story, the plot, characters but main reason for 3 stars is the ending. It was kind of rushed, without satisfactory ending story; I mean, I was left with so many questions about some characters and events. Feels like somebody stole the end of the book :)
Dr. Cook merges Edgar Rice Burroughs's TARZAN, H.G. Wells' ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU, and Mario Puzo's THE GODFATHER, and he does it well. Some may say the ending is untidy, but, on the whole, Dr. Cook trusts his readers' intellect to settle unresolved issues.
The premise of this book is really interesting. Unfortunately, the characters made annoyingly poor choices. All the main characters are well educated, professionals but over and over make really bad decisions without any logic or common sense behind them. It was very contrived.
