https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25019.The_Professor_and_the_Madman
...for each word, there should be sentences that show the twists and turns of meanings—the way almost every word slips in its silvery, fishlike way, weaving this way and that, adding subtleties of nuance to itself, and then perhaps shedding them as public mood dictates.”  Herbert Coleridge whose brilliant life was too short.I was driving into work the other day thinking about Herbert Coleridge and realized that I might possibly be the only person on the planet driving to work thinking about Her
Perhaps some Coleridge scholar working on a dissertation on Herbert’s famous grandfather, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or maybe someone thinking about the beginnings of the Oxford English Dictionary.
Neither Murray nor Minor lived long enough to see the job done, but without their Herculean efforts the whole idea may have been relegated to another generation or maybe never completed at all.
Murray and Minor both found that task in compiling the English language.
I do think back to those halcyon days when she had left for work, and it was just me, the OED, and the Fitzgeralds.
As a completely fledged bibliopsychotic and an ever-striving-to-be cunning-linguist , I was all aquiver with anticipation to bury my face in this purported history of the Oxford English Dictionary (OED).
My primary joy-dampening problem with the book’s arrangement was the dearth of page time given to what I see as the most fascinating aspect of the story…the actual nuts and bolts of putting together the OED and the history of etymological word-cataloging.
Unfortunately, this element only makes up about 20% to 25% of the book with the majority devoted to the life stories of Professor James Murray, head of the OED project, and Dr. W.C. Minor, a criminally insane murderer.
Professor James Murray was one of the primary editors of the Oxford English Dictionary (OED).
Dr Chester Minor, was one of the primary contributors to the massive project.
Simon Winchester - image from Andersons Bookshop The book tells their separate stories, how Murray rose to the prominence necessary to land this major position, how Minor emerged from a troubled, if well-to-do youth to commit a heinous and addled murder in London, and then to be institutionalized for the rest of his life.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Eloquent writing and the talented vocal work of narrator Simon Jones make this brief account of one of the greatest known editors of the OED and his longtime collaborator (a man who conducted his research from the confines of an asylum) a fascinating read/listen.
In short, when Professor James Murray, the man tasked with being the architect of the OED, sent out a call for volunteers to assist the editors in compiling examples of how words were used to help contextualize definitions, it was Minor, already an inmate at an asylum after it was determined he was not mentally fit to be jailed for his crime, who stood first (or, at least, among the first rank) among equals when it came to contributing.
Simon Winchester gives us all that right in the title of his surprisingly riveting read The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary.The idea of reading a book on the creation of a dictionary only sounded mildly interesting.
In the hands of the wrong writer that book might not have entertained me from start to finish the way Winchester did.
As exciting as I find it, this is a book about making a dictionary and that won't enthrall all readers.
It is quite obvious that a book about a lunatic and creating Oxford English Dictionary would be a winner with me.
Winchester performed some weird narrative experiments.
repeated that scene word by word in the middle of the book.
This is a non fiction book!!
Also, Simon Winchester is obviously psychic because he can tell exactly what everyone was thinking and feeling ages ago.
The conviction which he states it all with is imperturbable.It's all forgiven, though, because any book that involves someone cutting their penis off (ESPECIALLY non fiction) can't get anything less than four stars.
This is a perfect example of a book that I wish had been written by David McCullough.
I gave it three stars based primarily on potential--the story itself was very interesting; the writing was more like 2 stars.
Here's as good a place as any..." At any rate, the actual story was quite interesting, even if the author did manage to make 230 pages seem long.
I would tentatively recommend it, but remember it's not the best-written book you're going to come across.
We tend to forget how much more ‘humane’ we have become in such a short time – the American Civil War wasn’t all that long ago, but behaviours like those described here, performed against soldiers of your own side, would never be tolerated today … at least, I hope.I’m quite pleased with my prescience in relation to this book – pleased to have recommended it before having any idea what it would be like or what it would be about - other than the sketchiest of outlines.
Well, this is the book for you.Simon Winchester weaves together the story of two men in Victorian England: one was Professor James Murray, who was editing what was to become the definitive work on the English language; the other was William Chester Minor, who had committed murder and was living in a lunatic asylum.
Both men had a love of words, and because the murderer had access to a library and lots of spare time, he was a valuable contributor to the OED.If you've never seen the OED, it's an incredible work.
He has actually managed to make a book based upon the making of the Oxford English Dictionary a magical work.
Professor Murray, as he had never met him beforehand, assumed it was a private household address.Dr Minor was so instrumental in the Oxford English Dictionary coming to fruition, even though it wasn't completely finished until a long time after his death.
Can you imagine that!It's interesting how analysis by Simon Winchester puts Dr Minor's madness down to his participation in the American Civil War and particularly the Battle of the Wilderness in 1864.
I can't believe people get paid to write books like this.
But the writing was all fluffy excited repetitious drama, full of egoistic awe of one's own flair for "understanding" what these people must have felt and thought.
Then on page 171 (literally 77% of the way through the story before the afternotes) came the real blow: "The story of this first meeting is, however, no more than an amusing and romantic fiction." What the EFF?
I am not a fan -- either give me a good story or give me some intelligent non-fiction.
Broadmoor Description:  Hidden within the rituals of the creation of the Oxford English Dictionary is a fascinating mystery.
Dr. William Chester Minor, an American surgeon who had served in the Civil War, was one of the most prolific contributors to the dictionary, sending thousands of neat, hand-written quotations from his home.
After numerous refusals from Minor to visit his home in Oxford, Murray set out to find him.
The Professor and the Madman is the unforgettable story of the madness and genius that contributed to one of the greatest literary achievements in the history of English letters.Opening: In Victorian London, even in a place as louche and notoriously crime-ridden as the Lambeth Marsh, the sound of gun-shots was a rare event indeed.
This book has been on my to-read list for some time, and I had a few preconceived ideas that turned out to be wrong.
William Chester Minor spends the rest of his life in an insane asylum, the name of which is the basis for the word "bedlam." The story weaves back and forth between a Dickensian London, Civil War battlefields and an acedemic society that had taken on the daunting task of putting together a dictionary that encompassed the English language in its entirety.
An appeal went out to the public for learned volunteers to read books and submit words on scraps of paper along with their origin, context and definitions.
Per certi aspetti quattro stelle sono forse perfino troppe ma non intendo certo opporre resistenza a
I'm not sure that the story of this man, a Doctor from the United States and a veteran of the Civil War imprisoned for life following a murder committed (according to his defence at any rate) in moment of madness and his substantial contribution to the Oxford English Dictionary really justifies the amount of detail given.
Fans of the OED may well disagree.To an extent, the story that a man imprisoned and held to be insane was a major contributor to the Oxford English dictionary is less an incredible story and more a patently obvious one - who else but a prisoner would have the time - who else but an insane person would have the drive to devote that time to hunting down the earliest usages of words in early printed books?
Broadmoor Entrance, Berkshire, EnglandFortunately for him and the OE he came across a solicitation (found probability in one of his delivered books or newspapers) for volunteers to read and categorize words for the new dictionary which was an idea created by London’s The Philological Society The society is oldest learned society in Great Britain devoted to the scholarly study of language and languages.
The Last Card Made by Professor Murray for the Last Entry of the DictionaryTwenty-seven years after the decision to compile the dictionary, the first installment A to Ant, was published by the Clarendon Press, Oxford.
Only when Harper Collins editor Larry Ashmead read the proposal and championed the book did Winchester pursue the necessary research in earnest.[1] Of the project Ashmead said "we can make lexicography cool".[2] It was Ashmead that persuaded Winchester to call the US edition The Professor and the Madman (over Winchester's objection that Murray was not a professor), saying "No one here knows what the hell a Crowthorne is."[2]The book was a major success.[3][4][5] Winchester went on to write The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary (2003) about the broader history of the OED".
Winchester built up this great mystery about Dr. Minor, the reclusive contributor to Prof.
And don’t get me started on his creepy elegy for Dr. Minor: “He was mad, and for that, we have reason to be glad.” Who writes history like this?!?The one criticism I won’t lob at The Professor and the Madman is the one I’ve read in several GR reviews: fustian language.
It’s a book about words, fer cryin’ out loud, of course Winchester is going to trot out his best vocabulary!
fustian), louche, and polymath.I think I’ll seek out OED, Caught in the Web of Words, the account of the making of the great books by none other than James Murray’s own granddaughter herself, K.M. Elisabeth Murray.
Simon Winchester, the author and also narrator of the audiobook, chooses just the right details.
As you read or listen you drawn into the complexity involved in the Oxford English Dictionary 's making.
You read in the book description above that he was locked up in an insane asylum, but his life in that asylum will surprise you.
Winchester's writing teases you, entices you and he throws in extraneous tidbits about this contributor, the dictionary's editor and words.
Not many authors are as capable as Winchester in both writing and then reading their own book!
As someone who teaches about research, I am actually quite intrigued by the history of how great reference works like the Oxford English Dictionary were put together, but I suspect that the author is making more out of the story of the primary editor and one contributor, a story that doesn't quite fill a book yet he makes it do so.
Early psychology was the most interesting part of this story, but even with that, it could have been a part of something greater and more complete.I suspect I'll be in the minority when we discuss it, and may find myself compelled to come back to this review.
Audiobook narrated by the authorThe subtitle is all the synopsis you need: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of the Oxford English DictionaryJames Murray is the professor, a learned man who became the editor of the OED.
I previously read his book on the explosion of Krakatoa, which was interesting, but I felt bogged down in detail.
Winchester narrates the audiobook himself and he does a fine job.
As a bonus, at the end of the audio book there is an interview between Winchester and the OED’s current editor, John Simpson.
this book is pretentious. I guess if you have to write a book about the OED, it has to be written in a really pretentious, loquacious manner with lots of stupid words like "loquacious". that being said, it is an interesting story.
He had already demonstrated how Minor was in serious decline by this point (I mean did I mention he cut off his own penis????), and then Doctor Brayn took away all his privileges.
Winchester, who apparently has no concept of cause and effect, says that Minor's good health began to decline after the evil Brayn jealously did what he did.
Shame upon shame.*Oh and speaking of the widow, I almost forgot this point in the original review, why would Winchester, a supposedly professional historian, bring up a theory that has no backing, no evidence, absolutely nothing to support it other than wild, sensationalised guesswork??
I thought I'd love this, since I enjoy finding curious new words and discovering their origins.I was all set for my journey into lexicography, with dictionary at the ready.
However, the tone of the writing and the unnecessary peppering of the text with words even Stephen Fry uses only on special occasions does not convey a love of language, it's just irritating smart-arsery.
(From the English phrase 'smart arse'; one who smugly utilises lesser known facts to make themselves feel superior at parties and on pub quiz night).There, that's my contribution to the OED if it's not already in there!
First published in 1927 and begun not that much after the American Civil War.And one of the prime pins of the massive "team" efforts was Dr. Minor.
An American surgeon and Dr. serving in that very war.Everyone involved in this one was interesting.
The written form is 5 star- with the entire as it appears for definitions and for uses and for origins in like manner- for the subject matter of each chapter.
Oh the letter T alone took more than for 4 years for James, the main originator.Intriguing and also sad despite the ultimate book worthy triumph.
Since I am a person who took her learned brother's advice which was "read the dictionary every day", this book was right up my alley.
All this was unknown to Professor Murray and his work with Dr. Minor continued for 35 years until he decided to travel to the address from which Minor's correspondence came to finally meet him.
They became friends and Minor was acknowledged in the first edition of this massive work which took 75 years to complete.
This is an engrossing history with tragic overtones and I would recommend it, even to those who don't read the dictionary every day!
Have you ever stopped to think about what would have been required to compile the first edition of the Oxford English Dictionary?
The relationship that resulted between this man, W.C. Minor, and the editor of the OED, James Murray, was both interesting and unique.Much of this book was fairly dry, consisting of lists of persons involved in the dictionary and descriptions of the procedures set up for the work at hand.
While this portion of the book was necessary and fascinating, I felt myself wanting to get on to the story of the men.
It is amazing how intricate the mind can be, that someone so obviously insane could be so profoundly intelligent.An interesting thought occurred to me while reading this book.
Tadinya saya mengira buku ini adalah novel, ternyata buku ini adalah semacam "pengantar" pada suatu kisah besar penciptaan kamus yang dianggap termashyur abad ini, yaitu The Oxford English Dictionary (OED).Ditulis oleh Simon Winchester, Ia lahir di London Utara pada 28 September 1944, terlahir sebagai anak tunggal Bernard and Andrée Winchester (née deWael).
Dari situs Wikipedia diketahui, bahwa selama kurun waktu 1980 hingga 1990 an ia menulis beberapa buku travel di Asia Pasifik.Buku kecil ini memceritakan secara singkat apa dan bagaimana Kamus yang tersohor di seluruh dunia, The Oxford English Dictionary ada.
Something kept drawing me to this book, but I had initially shied away due to the "and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary" part of the title.
I had no interest in reading about the making of a dictionary.
To my surprise, it was extremely interesting.
There wasn't a dull moment in this book.
It was full of interesting tidbits about words & history and the amazing 50+ year process of making such a comprehensive work of literature as the Oxford English Dictionary.
It also gave an amazing in-depth look at mental illness and how even a fractured mind can still be brilliant and useful.
