https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222576.The_Grey_King
boy meets boy; antics ensue.boy with Old soul meets boy with dog with old soul; old king wishes they
The relationship between Owen and Bran, with that lovely section so near the end; the levels you can see, particularly depicting Owen and in the character of John; the touches of mystery there are like the issue of the Grey King himself -- all of it is as wonderful as ever on what must be at least my tenth reread, and probably more than that.And, of course, there's Cafall -- the courage and loyalty, and the heartbreak.
*Happy sigh* I just finished rereading this one again last night. With the exception of the first book in the Dark is Rising series, I love all of them -- atmospheric, dreamy, and creepy, the lot of them. And steeped in old folklore and told in lovely prose so that they feel like they grew out of the ground instead of being written by a modern author. I cannot recommend them highly enough . . . but do read them in order.
I’ve rhapsodised about it at length: the use of mythology, the casual use of the Welsh language, the home-ness of the landscape and the people… The shades of grey and the adult touches when it comes to Owen Davies and John Rowlands, and Will Stanton’s interactions with them.
And then his friendship with Will is just lovely, the immediate rapport between them, the ways Will being an Old One damages it, the ways Bran adapts.And there’s Cafall.
There’s Owen’s grief for Gwen; Gwen’s grief at betraying her husband; the jealousy and rivalry between Owen Davies and Caradog Prichard; Arthur’s yearning for connection with his son… And of course, those shades of grey I mentioned.
The 2012 reread of The Dark is Rising sees me struggling with anxiety and depression issues, and I nearly didn't get round to reading this, this year.
But it is my comfort reading, so it was a good idea that I just planted myself firmly down with the book in hand today -- the same old battered copy as always, of course.To my mind, this is the point in the sequence where more subtlety begins to come in.
There's a reason Susan Cooper won the Newbery Medal for this.
Her incredible, melodic descriptive language and her ability to interweave history, mythology, legend, and good old-fashioned fiction bring this book far beyond a traditional "boy with special powers" book.
If you appreciate the English language and if you have an interest in history and legend, this one is for you.
Susan Cooper did her research--one can look up the background of many of the people, places, and mythical figures and see how they relate to the history of what is now the United Kingdom.
Yet in adjusting the tone of the books to aim them to her younger audience, Cooper also seems to feel it’s necessary to remove a great deal of the complexity and subtlety that makes novels such an interesting literary form.
The Grey King feels like Will’s story, more so even than The Dark is Rising.Except it’s also kind of Bran’s story.A new character, Bran is special in terms of his heritage.
Neither could stand against the Grey King by himself; together, they make a compelling team.This is the first of the Dark is Rising books that feels like it gives the protagonists enough to do and provides a meaningful threat.
One is Will and Bran questing for the harp, coming before the three hooded powers and answering the riddles set them.
Contrast that with the other scene of riddles asked and answered: Bran screaming at his father in the hut on the hillside, demanding to know who he is and where he came from.
This book is like that -- the magic has that stilted, staged feel of predestiny, while the parallel human story is messy and wildly alive.
They're John Rowlands's, and Bran's, and most profoundly, Bran's father's.It all really works.
Doesn't work, does it?Humanity has a range, a resonance in the book that the people of power just don't.
This one is probably my favourite book of the series.
Alas, I speak very little Welsh.I think Bran is my favourite character of the series.
There's subtlety, too, in the emotions of all the characters -- there's a level on which it works best for adults, even, like understanding Owen Davies' feelings.
But it works for everyone, on all levels, I think, too.This is also more subtle in terms of seeing the Light and the Dark as extremes, which can each be bad in their own way.
John Rowlands talks about the Light as being cold absolute good, without mercy or love, and that's an interesting way of looking at it.
His aloofness and exclusion is well done without being over done, I think, and the moments when he acts just like a normal boy with Will are beautiful.
It's not just Bran who proves an interesting character, though: I'm also drawn to Owen Davies and John Rowlands.
John is one of those people who is truly good and unwittingly (most of the time) serves the Light: it's interesting to see a character like that, beyond the fact that he's purely likeable.This is also the book in which the hints at an Arthurian background blossom a little.
While the author's writing never feels hurried in description or tone, it seems that more time could have benefited the details and the character development of the story.Things happen quickly, even if described leisurely-ly; whys or why-nots are left unanswered (why Will's memory loss, when it came back so easily; why Bran and Cafall's initial behavior, except for irrelevant conflict; why the fire, except for the poem; why the foxes, except for Cafall; why Caradog, period; why the riddles, no really, why the riddles; why the pebble, except for the threats of the Grey King (which didn't come to much); why the bicycle, when you are an Old One; etc.).
In this volume our heroes take on the Grey King, a villain who we're reminded every other paragraph is more powerful and evil than any other encountered so far.Despite this impressive reputation, the most evil things he manages to accomplish are (a) killing a few sheep and (b) making one small patch of ground briefly change shape.
He also seems to have it out for sheepdogs for reasons that remain murky throughout the entire book.
Again, the reasons for the most powerful and evilest bad guy ever electing this strategy remain unclear.
Which I suppose is helpful if you're planning on learning Welsh immediately after finishing the book.
But they are opposed not only by the supernatural forces of the Grey King, a major force among the Dark, but by human stupidity and vengefulness.In some ways this is far more of an adult book than the rest of the series because of the thread concerning the relationship between Bran's mother, his father, and the local villain.
But in some ways it is the human story concerning Bran which is the most affecting part of the book.
So, I've been reading Cooper's Dark is Rising series, which I somehow never got to as a kid despite hearing so much about it, and knowing it won a ton of awards.
For instance, much is made in the second book (The Dark is Rising) when Will is introduced and being shown how powerful he is, that the first thing he can do is start and extinguish fires at will.
It's funny, I think Cooper realised she'd made Will close to infallible in the previous book, so she's whacked him with a memory loss inducing illness at the start of this one.
But sarcasm aside I enjoyed the scenery change, and found the language and the local myths pretty cool.I am realising more and more that these are written consistently for children aged 10.
Cooper has a real gift for mood and ritual, and Wales is a wonderfully interesting canvas.I think my main feeling on these books is: should have read these as a kid.
The Grey King is the Brenin Llwyd, a great Lord of the Dark who dwells in Cader Idris, a misty mountain over a pleasant farm valley, where six sleepers lie sleeping, to be awoken by a harp of gold — if Will can find it and play it and prevent the Grey King from preventing him.Also to play a role in this story is Bran, the Raven Boy, an albino the same age as Will, whose true nature is revealed in dramatic and powerful fashion.Highlights of this book, besides the magnificent Welsh scenery, were the bits of magic, much more forceful and powerful this time.
The things I noticed in this read through -- my full review, more of an overview of all the times I've read it, is here -- were mostly about the Welshness of it, and about the complexities of Will's relationship with the Light and humanity, and how exactly Bran is related to the Light.John Rowlands' little speech about the coldness at the heart of the Light always strikes me -- it's a moral ambiguity that isn't always present (e.g. in Harry Potter).
Once you've read the whole sequence, you do know that the Light is right, I think, because of how they handle their victory -- though at the same time, that coldness at the heart never goes away -- but you never see anything from the point of view of the Dark...
That was something that made "The Dark is Rising" eternally unbearable so it was good not to deal with it here.But Will is still overshadowed by another character (much as was the case in "Greenwitch" with Jane), in this case Bran.
Bran is immediately an interesting and sympathetic character and frankly one who feels like he should've been the main character of this story in the first place.I also admired the decision to introduce characters who aren't Light or Dark who are simply humans with their own morality and choices who can still have an impact on the story.
So far my least favorite of the series, it did have a good ending though. It was able to tug more at my emotions but lacked a certain amount of structure which left it less satisfying. Hopefully the final book picks back up.
I've remembered it fondly all these years, and after the disappointment of Greenwitch, I told myself "Never mind, The Grey King is next, you love that one!"Well, I did--forty years ago.
We had the Old Magic as the "oldest" and "strongest", right?
we have the High Magic, "a power beyond Light or Dark or any allegiance--the strongest and most remote force in the universe." Well, sweetie, looks like the Force wasn't with you.
Yes, I know what the point is--adventure fiction.
I know, I know--I'm too old for fantasy fiction of this type.
But what a disappointment this re-visit to old friends has been.
2018 ReviewThe Grey King by Susan Cooper is the third (or fourth) book in her Dark is Rising series.
Will Stanton must continue his quest to find the Things of Power to help the Light in their power against the Dark.
This is Will’s first quest alone, although he is helped by Bran and Cafall.
He knows about the Light and the Dark but does not want to be involved in their struggle, although in the final book, Silver on the Tree, he does unwillingly play a pivotal role.
Other things, like humanity, and mercy, and charity, that most good men hold more precious than all else, they do not come first for the Light.
I was also very bored by the born-to-be-special thing going on, for instance (view spoiler)[when Bran and Will go to meet the Council, it mentions that only those with the right blood can enter, everyone else would be incinerated.
(hide spoiler)] Turns out I have a very hard time caring about books where women are relegated to a side mention and serve only as backdrop to the far more interesting male lives.
I also - though this was a relatively minor thing for me - (view spoiler)[didn't like that of course the loyal sheepdog had to die.
There are no other Old Ones to help him, which emphasizes the peril he faces.Will becomes less and less like a child or human being with every passing book.
He gained knowledge of it all at once, by merely sitting down and reading a book, and now it seems that he can command it to suit almost any occasion.
As such, it seems like a mere contrivance, a neon sign the author has hung over his head that reads “See?
Even as he helps Will, his own desires and painful wants bring the much-needed touch of human warmth the book is lacking elsewhere.The Grey King is building up to a powerful climax.
Also there are a few plot elements that create tension but ultimately seem incredibly trivial and senseless: (Spoiler ahead!) For example, why on earth does it matter that the grey foxes are attacking sheep and making it seem like the work of a main character's sheep dog?
But it a) seems pretty ridiculous on the part of the foxes--why do they have it in for this one sheep dog?--and b) is completely non-consequential compared to the bigger stakes of the dark rising and taking over the world.
Just another example of Cooper's uneven plotting and inability to portray the nature of evil/darkness with any kind of depth.
It is not the Wales-ness of this book that stopped me (though partially, yes, it is, the dense nature of those mythological references that when they meant nothing to me, they very much meant nothing), but rather the way that this book did not seem to mean anything to me until those last few pages where it suddenly meant everything.
I think, in a way, reading these books is teaching me more about writing and my attitude towards it.
And that's amazing and wondrous and something quite special, and something that will also keep me reading past pages where nothing very much happens because I know that, at some point, everything, but everything will happen.
All my opinions about this book might not be helpful since I didn't read any of the other books in this series.
They kill a dog.
I really hate when dogs die in books.
And the person who killed the dog was a jackass before and continued being a jackass after.
One character can brag that "he totally called it" but that's it.
2. It may have been explained in the books leading up to this one, but I don't get the powers that Will has.
Odds are then that your dog is going to be shot for no reason at all.
This was my favourite of The Dark is Rising series as a child and some of the images and characters within the book have stayed with me over the years.
And in the centre of it all the character of Bran; strange, arrogant and lonely, with a magical dog and a High Destiny - irresistible to bookish loners like my 8 year old self.
In point of fact, Bran superseded the tent-living, harmonica-playing Snufkin of the moomin books (who set an early pattern for many subsequent heart-breaking involvements with foot-loose commitment-phobes) as the most important literary crush of my childhood.I've never quite gotten over it.
A brief jewel of a book. Here Cooper blends Arthurian legend with rural adventure, using young Will Stanton as a voice for the high level fight between Good and Evil. In this book, Will gets a deeper sense of the value of his fight, but also begins to understand how the battle removes him from the human world, which he discovers is full of petty viciousness--and wonderful goodness, all of it outside the concerns of legend and lore. There is wisdom a-plenty in this book, and the last paragraph so perfectly written it took my breath away.
I know it's not a commonly held opinion among fans of The Dark is Rising sequence, but I actually have preferred the books with the Drews, rather than just Will Stanton, but this was still a great read. I'm grateful for the little Welsh pronunciation lesson Bran gave Will, otherwise I would have been way off the mark with the names. My only complaint is not enough Merriman, but overall it was really exciting and I'm anxious to start the final volume of the series.
This was really a 3.5 for me.This is the continuing story of Will Stanton in his quests to acquire the Things of Power in order to defeat the Dark, and save the world.It's well written but I found myself wishing that the lengthy descriptions of the scenery and the various magical happenings weren't quite so . . . well . . . long.
