https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120581.Then_and_Now
Somerset Maugham follows four months of the year 1502 in the life of Niccolo Machiavelli (1469-1527)--Florentine author, playwright, philosopher, politician and diplomat.
That Cesare Borgia was seeking to unite Italy back in the early 1500s is noteworthy considering hat three centuries had to pass before this came to be!The audiobook I listened to was narrated by Andrew Wincott.
I have given the narration three stars.The story is cleverly drawn, has interesting historical content, suspense, humor and eloquent prose that wonderfully befits Machiavelli.
I will be reading every book I can get by this author.
Free download available at Faded Page.

An interesting departure from Maugham's usual fare in terms of content, but the style of writing remains as sharp as ever.
Peppered with memorable quotes and his trademark sharp commentary on human nature, what makes this book interesting that instead of his usual style where he acts as narrator/dispassionate third party, here he attempts to get into the head of his main character and speaks from his point of view and that is the best part of the book.
As a result, the dialogue and conversations between every character in this book have a sense of authenticity that adds great value to the book.
With most authors one can notice a theme in all their books.
In fact some of the best writers have rarely written beyond a handful of books and then there's Maugham, who was a prolific writer.
In having the clever and scheming politician Machiavelli as his protagonist, Maugham introduces us to a time in which Italy was not united.
They are woven into the impeccable and sharp narrative.In Maugham's mind's eye, the above story forms the basis for Machiavelli's real play.
As usual, Maugham's writing always bowls me over.
There is evidence of ample research before writing the book and its a nice little package of great entertainment.
چه کسی فکر می کند که آدم عاشق باید محتاط باشد؟ مثل این است که شما از دریایی که در معرض بادهای سهمگین آسمانی قرار گرفته است بخواهید آرام باشد.اما هرکسی می تواند تحقیری را که در حقش روا داشته اند و خود هم از آن آگاه است،تحمل کند. مهم این است که آدم جوری به این قضیه نگاه کند که انگار در جایی دیگر و بر سر آدمی دیگر آمده است.مرده شوی عشق را ببرد.عشق در برابر هنر چه ارزشی دارد!
Intrigue, political maneuvering and seduction in set in 1502 Italy, where Machiavelli and Cesare Borgia cross paths - a premise that never fails to make for a great historical novel.
I found Then and Now many, many years ago in my grandparents' bookcase (was a bored book-a-phile teen).
Then and Now has remained in the back of my mind for some 30 years.
That says something both for Maugham and for Machiavelli.
That much of the politics Maugham details is very accurate makes the book more valuable now, although I certainly did not know that as a teenager.Just read The Swerve: How the World Became Modern (nonfiction) Stephan Greenblat.
That is what refreshed my memory about Machiavelli, crooked Popes, lethal political alliances, and the Renaissance.
This was a fascinating read. Somerset Maugham's research regarding the political background of Italy in 1502 was excellent. Macchiavelli's love affair was intriguing: morphing into satire. I highly recommend this book and wonder "why" this story hasn't yet become a film?
We found this book at Ms Ruby's while cleaning out. It has her name and June 1946 inside! I love historical fiction and like somerset Maugham's other works, so gave this a try. Very different, pretty good, made me feel connected to Ruby, who read this so many years ago.
As with all historical fiction, I felt the beginning was rather dry, setting up people and places that have their place in the period, but mean almost nothing outside it. When the book picked up I found it rather enjoyable, but as I came near the end, I was confused as to the title. Then Maugham revealed something about Machiavelli and everything clicked in place. I shall not spoil it here, but going in only knowing it was written by Maugham, I was pleasantly surprised.
Best part of reading Maugham is that you are always surprised somehow, and this time around we have the author trying something different from his usual writing. It's a little bit odd in the first few chapters, mostly because I was expecting something else but I got used to it soon enough. I barely remember anything about Maquiavel and the politics of that time but I couldn't help but wonder if it was all true? Did he really write this play?
I love how Somerset Maugham can weave a story and stitch you right in, making you feel like a conspirator, or at the very least, complicit to events that unfold as you least expect them to.A period piece, this is the oldest-set Maugham story I've read so far: early 14th century, three months in the life of a Florentine diplomat, one Niccolo Machiavelli.
It is of course, a piece of fiction, but splicing fiction with history, this novel is the author's take on whom Machiavelli based his prince on, and why.
The wily Cesar Borgia was his inspiration for The Prince, and
In pratica questo libro si esaurisce con: Machiavelli tries to get laid.E non c'è altro, a parte qualche rara scena, interessante ma neanche troppo ricca di guizzi, di conversazioni tra il protagonista e Cesare Borgia.Non sono per niente entusiasta di questa resa di un'epoca così ricca come il Rinascimento italiano, e mi aspettavo qualcosa di originale nel personaggio di Borgia, che invece rimane lì e non fa niente, ed è grande, brillante, etc.
etc., solo nelle parole del fanboy Machiavelli, ma non nei fatti.
I did enjoy some historical insight and the battle of wits between Cesare Borgia and Machiavelli, but that's it.Maybe it's a generational gap, or the difference in education...
but I did not get Machiavelli.
I just don't condone men thinking females should be subordinates to men.
Degrading females, saying they are superficial and stupid yet rotten and cunning (uhmm...
thinking that a woman is only smart if she puts up with the guy sleeping around with anyone, and stupid is she feels offended when she's abondoned and her emotions are not respected?
An enjoyable read which, although published in 1946, gave the impression of similar works in the 17th and 18th centuries.
Centering around Machiavelli as it's main character, it ventures through intrigue and conquest with an enjoyable flair.
My only complaint is that it seemed to build towards something, only to fall rather flat at its end.
As though a series had been abruptly canceled and a writer must write some type of ending that his heart is not in.
I have enjoyed Maugham when I read his more famous work, "The Razor's Edge".
But this one, though enjoyable, left me flat in the end.
“Then and Now” is set in the late middle ages. The main characters in the book are Caesar Borgia the Duke, Machiavelli, and his main aide in local and state diplomacy Piero Giacomonini, Bartolomeo a merchant, Bartolomeo’s new wife Monna Aurelia, and Monna Catarina, Aurelia’s mother. While some people may like “Then and Now”, I found it to be a bad amalgamation of Italian city state politics, religion and personal affairs. The best thing I can say about; once you get past the first 4 or 5 pages, it becomes more readable.
Fun little historical novel about the months Niccolo Machiavelli spent in the court of Caesar Borgia, with some romantic intrigue thrown in. Minus one star because it is not at all like other SM novels that examine the human condition in such sensitive detail. However it has some witty and comic elements in addition to the politics, war and diplomacy.Italophiles will read it with buon gusto, and it certainly raises my interest in "The Prince" himself, Borgia, and humanizes Machiavelli. I understand some of the dialogue is authentic from the records of the time.
Machiavelli of "Then and Now" has probably little to do with the real one, the novel would disappoint a reader searching for historical truth. I was quite surprised to see that it is one of Maugham's later books, so unsophisticated it appears to be. Similar to his other novels, its themes are inability to foresee the future, being easy on human sins, and finding pleasure in observing life the way it is.
Since we have been blessed with a miss by Isaac, but still are having a rainey day, I am going through my shelves for new entries on goodreads. Came across an old 1946 Somerset Maugham I never got around to reading. I always did like his books so another novel goes on the to-read list. I shudder to think how much time will go by until I get to read all I have there.
Interesting depiction of Machiavelli and Cesare Borgia, as well as Renaissance life. Some pretty good passages of dialogue, and the whole thing moves at a nice pace. Certainly a departure from what I know of Maugham, but an enjoyable read.
This book was a huge disappointment. It was entertaining enough, but it lacked substance. A few clever lines (including a witty jab at authorship) and an entertaining plot was not enough to save this one.
This novel is about Niccolo Machiavelli, author of The Prince, going on a diplomatic mission. There was too much boring political intrigue description and not enough about the character Machiavelli, himself. I had to force myself to finish this book--at least it was short.
Very diverting story with Machiavelli as the lead.
Maugham...Renaissance Italy...what's not to look forward to? Has been on my to-read list for way too long.
very interesting read; maugham is a master story teller; intriguing plot; fantastic characterization
Nope.
Восхитительно
I own this book.
Rather wasted my time.
