https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8133886-the-works-of-anton-checkov
It's not the best to read straight through, given the uniformly tragic and depressing nature of Chekhov's short stories and plays, but almost each story contains beautifully ornate descriptions of scenery along with profound insights into the human psyche.
The aforementioned novella is masterful, not only with an intriguing story but also an ingenious narrative device in which Chekhov, writing in first person, publishes a murder story submitted by a dubious aspiring writer who turns out to be the murderer himself.I'm not an expert on theater, but I found his plays ("The Cherry Orchard," "Three Sisters," and "The Seagull") extremely captivating and moving.
I guess the Russians have a strange sense of humor.For any aspiring writers, or for fans of Russian literature, Chekhov is a must-read.
Theoretically, reading, one can pause and savor in between, but I was listening to the audio, which just went straight on with new characters and a new situation with no time to absorb the previous story’s conclusion.
Those new characters all have complicated Russian names, too.
Most of the characters are ridiculously foolish.
I don’t regret reading (or rather, listening) to these, but I think if I pick up Chekov again, it will be in a print or e-book form where I can dip into one at a time.
this is one of those shitty walter black editions from the 1920s, so lots of typos and smudged print, no footnotes, or even a credit of who did the translations, which seem inconsistent with one another.
the content itself is great - this volume contains mostly short stories, the novella "the shooting party" and four dramas.
there isnt much overlap with the other chekhov volumes i have, so i only skipped anna round the neck, the peasants, in the ravine, and all the dramas except for "the wedding", a short comedic one-act.
I listened to the version of this available from openculture.com which has 60 stories. The selected stories accurately show Checkov's mastery of the short story, and more importantly for me, his ability to portray many aspects of 19th century Russian life. I was assigned Checkov as an undergraduate (in the 1980's), and wanted to revisit the author because I did not really remember any of the stories. Well worth the effort, and I plan to listen again in a few years.
The Lady with the Dog was a journey into the mind of Anna Sergeyevna and her view on herself, her life and how she feels about her actions.
I am not sure in what way, but I wonder if Chekhov was influential for Joyce?The Lady with the Dog shows the changes in Dmitri and who has not viewed women in the best of “lights.” He was a bit of a “player” and it started out that way with Anna.
I found myself enjoying The Lady with the Dog more than the rest of the his stories.I appreciate the fact that Chekov wrote about those things he knew; this gives him added credibility.
I prefer his shorter stories. A Gentleman Friend for example.
He is simple fantastic!
