https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320844.The_Armada
I am happy to say that it did not disappoint.It details the politics of Spain, France and England that led to the creation of the invasion fleet.
The affects of rumor and propaganda were the most interesting aspects for me.
It amused me to find that until reading this, I believed some of the rumors and propaganda that were started in the 16th century.
The economics of creating the fleets, in England and in Spain, from the food & water to the building or buying of ships & boats and manning them was something of a nightmare.

Garrett Mattingly’s classic The Armada will put you at Sir Francis Drake’s elbow on board the Elizabeth Bonaventure when he sails into Cadiz to singe the beard of Philip of Spain. A marvelous you-are-there book, beginning with the beheading of Mary Queen of Scots and ending with Elizabeth the First’s butt sitting more firmly on the throne of England than ever before in her precarious reign. I so want someone to make a film from this book, and make it well. Colin Farrell as Drake, maybe?
I am an aspiring narcoleptic or perhaps just experiencing hypnagogic hallucinations (thank you Wikipedia) though I believe this book caused most of my daytime drowsiness over the last week. for what it is worth, I always wanted to keep reading when I woke up. THE SPANISH LOST!!!!! that came way out of left field, good thing I was sitting (laying) down.
In the late summer of 1588, all of Europe held its breath as an enormous Spanish fleet, consisting of a hundred and fifty vessels of varying sizes, set sail for the English channel.
When news reached Phillip II, he wrote to the his bishops and could express only thanks that -- in the light of the storms -- more men were not lost.I knew virtually nothing of the Armada except that it sailed, met a storm, and failed.
Although in retrospect a brief review of the history of the period would have served me well as a reader (particularly in regards to France, whom I seem to ignore utterly between 1453 and 1789) , the author's delivery is indeed novel-like.
An excellent and very readable history of the Armada battle and the whole cauldron of English and European politics surrounding it.
The book devotes a lot of space and attention to the civil war raging in France at the time, as the Spanish-funded Guise faction kept the French state in turmoil, unable to interfere in Spain's wars with England and the Netherlands.Mattingly livens up the narrative with entertaining thumbnail portraits of the main actors.
He also looks closely at the tremendous hole in the Spanish tactical plan -- the key detail of how the Spanish army in the Netherlands was supposed to link up with the Armada even though they controlled no deepwater ports.
An older but still highly valuable work. Mattingly should especially be commended for placing the events of 1588 in the context of the English succession, the Dutch Revolt, and even France's War of the Three Henries. This was neither simply a Protestant-Catholic struggle nor an English-Spanish national rivalry, but a far more complex inter-mixture. Though Mattingly emphasizes context, he does not neglect detail, and engages the gaps in the sources effectively. Well worth reading.
Fucking brilliant! Written in a day when outstanding Historians were also occasionally excellent and entertaining Writers, and Garrett Mattingly was certainly both. Unusual for a history tome in that it is riveting enough to be difficult to put down, and is written as a series of vignettes laying out the larger conflict from the point of view of the different participants, from Philip of Spain and Elizabeth of England to Henry of France and Mary, Queen of Scots.
My favorite history book to date. Mattingly has that rare gift of being an historian who can truly bring his characters and the action surrounding them to life. His grasp of the historical facts and his ability to compose in a literary fashion combine to create a world that is instantly alive for the reader. Highly recommended.
An excellent and very detailed review of European history beginning with the beheading of Mary Queen of Scots and continuing through the ultimate demise of the Spanish Armada. A perhaps overlooked aspect of the outcome is the fact that the victory likely resulted in the continuing independence of the French state which may have otherwise fallen under the domination of Spain.
The way history should be written. A rollicking, swashbuckling tale of one of the most traditionally misunderstood battles in history. The English defeat of the Spanish Armada was no David-beats-Goliath kind of encounter. Old Philip II had it coming.
The English had smaller faster ships and better long range guns. The Spanish were defeated before they began to fight, They pulled into port with their tails between their legs. This is where Sir Francis Drake made his name.
One of my favorite history books. I have wondered about the battle between the Spanish Armada and the English/Dutch for years. Garrett Mattingly's book is a carefully researched study that reads like an exciting novel.
The Armada, or how bad planning and bad luck saved England from Invasion.This is a wonderful and detailed book that reads like a novel, but gives a very clear picture of a pivitol moment in history.
Had to read this for my History of Spain of class in college. So glad I did--really, an outstanding book.
And she used Drake perfectly, making the most of his legend, but denying him command of the defense and so diminishing the danger of his quest for glory dooming the entire enterprise on some foolish stunt, which he undertook anyway.However, Drake's raid on Spanish shipping the year before proves yet again Napoleon's maxim, that an army marches on its stomach.
One of the best histories I've ever read, The Armada, (a modest title, since book is about a lot more than that) begins with the execution of Mary Stuart and ends with Elizabeth's New Year celebrations of 1589.
Another thing I liked about this book was how it treated the main figures in this drama as the highly intelligent, fully human individuals they were, beset with uncertainty, anxiety, bias, and contradictory motivations.
Overall, this book represents history writing at its best: exciting, deeply informed, lucid, and humane.
But with Mary out of the way, he not only had an excuse to invade England to avenge her and reimpose Catholicism; he also had an opportunity to unite England with Spain against France - much better!There is a great deal in the book about the machinations of Mendoza, the Spanish ambassador to France, in his largely successful attempts to neutralise any French opposition to Philip's plan to take over England; and also more about events in Rome, where the Pope and Dr William Allen, the exiled English Catholic leader, were negotiating with each other.
In addition to actually being the first modern naval battle in which ships stood off and exchanged broadsides without grappling and boarding, the entire saga of the Armada was perhaps the most famous part of a larger overall struggle, which was the Catholic counter-Reformation, led by Spain.
The political conditions in France, the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, and England all contributed to the context in which the "Enterprise," as the Armada came to be considered actually occurred.
England becomes great sea power (more or less)."Well, the 10-second summary gets a couple of facts right: Spain's fleet was bigger (maybe 50% bigger depending on how you count) and there were a number of engagements fought on a few days as the ships went up the Channel.
But to those whose European history of this era was more of the "overview" style, the details are fascinating.The other part that I found very interesting (versus the merely interesting naval actions) was how the technology of the two fleets was different and why that mattered.
First published in 1959, The Defeat of the Spanish Armada is a detailed narrative of the famous invasion attempt of 1588. The first few chapters look at the events leading up to 1588, including the lengthy and tortuous preparations for the sailing of the fleet. Thereafter, the narrative looks at each stage of the fleets journey and it's eventual fate. The level of detail is jaw-dropping, yet this does not impact on the pace and readability of the narrative. I did notice that more recent editions are titled 'The Armada' so don't be fooled. Very enjoyable.
The whole event is entangled in the politics of the era including emerging nationalism and most importantly (according to this author) the battle between Catholics and Protestants.
The weather was certainly a factor in the retreat and dispersion of the Armada, but before that the Spanish were out-maneuvered by the superior ships, captains and cannons of the English.
The sailing and defeat of the Armada is a story of the politics of Europe in the 16th Century as well as emerging technology in weapons and ship-building--and of the evolution of naval warfare.
The whole event is entangled in the politics of the era including emerging nationalism and most importantly (according to this author) the battle between Catholics and Protestants.
The weather was certainly a factor in the retreat and dispersion of the Armada, but before that the Spanish were out-maneuvered by the superior ships, captains and cannons of the English.
The sailing and defeat of the Armada is a story of the politics of Europe in the 16th Century as well as emerging technology in weapons and ship-building--and of the evolution of naval warfare.
Professor Garrett Mattingly was awarded a Pulitzer citation for this two-year history of the attempted sea invasion by Spain’s Phillip II against Elizabeth I and her England.
I found the discussion of the politics of the time and the portraits of Elizabeth I, Phillip II and, to a lesser extent, Henry III of France, fascinating.
Equally fascinating was the preparation for the invasion by both sides.
The logistics of getting, outfitting and manning vessels necessary were immense, and troubled, on both sides.Less fascinating were the account of the battles themselves, and I admit to skimming over these portions of the story, lightly, keeping an eye out only for politics and personal portraits.For those for whom history is a captivating study, this is an excellent read.
I did not find this annoying at all, it just showed that the author did his homework more than most.A great read and highly recommended for anyone interested not only in the Armada's defeat but in the politics, engineering, nautical enterprises that went around this period.
We hear about the Protestant Elizabeth Tudor (Elizabeth I) having the Catholic Mary Stuart (Mary Queen of the Scots) beheaded; Philip II of Spain trying to reinstate Catholicism throughout the continent by sending his fleet to defeat England; the French and the Dutch picking sides in the coming fight; Francis Drake weaving in and out of the story, and even Walter Raleigh making an appearance.
All the while, an assembled Spanish fleet travels from Lisbon and campaigns up the English Channel and the North Sea trying to bring England to her knees.
The author might have used a bit of high language - you can be the judge on this quote from Ch 29,  " the flow of vituperative billingsgate with which these arguments were accompanied would seem to a modern reader somewhat to weaken their force..."If you read this don't skip the Epilogue!
Although this was written in 1959, I found this quote about the difficulty of the religious war between Catholics and Protestants to be relevant to the 21st century.
Of all the kinds of was, a crusade, a total war against a system of ideas, is the hardest to win."
In addition to having more time to read, one of the advantages of retirement is that I can read books "outside my field" without any sense of guilt that I should be "keeping up" with the more relevant stuff.
Garrett Mattingly's THE SPANISH ARMADA (the title of the edition I read) is a classic of historical writing that I have known about ever since college and wanted to read eventually.
For anyone brought up on the Protestant myth of divine intervention, it is clear that the Spanish Armada was never as strong as it appeared and probably was doomed from the beginning.
This book was a terrific read that I highly recommend.
This is a fairly clear history of the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588, after fighting the English and suffering poor weather.
The author is careful to indicate what we know and don't know, and venture an opinion and state the evidence when he is confident enough to make a guess.This story helps you to understand how complex warfare really is, in terms of how many factors there are to consider and how many ways things can go wrong beyond just whether you win or lose fights.
In this case, most of the winning and losing occurred outside the actual fighting.
A fascinating and very readable account of the events leading up to the attempted invasion of England by the Spanish Armada.
It raises some big theological questions: Both sides thought they were fighting for the true faith - so where was God in all of this?
If that was an act of God's grace then why were so many Spanish killed on the remainder of the journey home around the coast of Scotland and Ireland?
How does God rule in the affairs of men and nations?
