https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49353.The_Last_Coyote
In and around his visits to the police psychologist who is assigned to work with him, he begins digging into the case and before long has stirred up a veritable hornets' nest.This is another gripping story in the Bosch saga, one that goes a long way in explaining how Harry turned in to the man he has become.
One would think that a thirty-year-old case would be too cold ever to clear, and it's fun to watch the inventive approaches that Bosch takes as he attempts to solve the crime.If I have a complaint about this book and about the character, it is that Bosh sometimes seems to go deliberately out of his way to insult or anger people when there's no good reason to do so.
Those fans of the great Amazon series Bosch starring Titus Welliver who are yet readers of the books could pick a worse place to start reading than The Last Coyote, which contains much of the plot of the second season.
(Even better, though, would be The Concrete Blonde--Harry Bosch #3--which contains much of the plot of the first.)Suspended for shoving his supervisor through a glass office panel, Detective Bosch decides to spend his enforced leave time investigating the murder which drives his angry heart: the strangulation of his mother, an LA call girl killed more than thirty years before.
Exceptional....Best book of the series so far. Connelly is so much more than a great thriller writer, he's simply a great writer and Bosch is such a great character, you can't help but pull for him at every step throughout this amazing story. Best crime thriller series out there. I honestly believe Connelly could write about anything. I'd put him up there with Stephen King and Brandon Sanderson in that regard (he's honestly that good!).
Another new character appears and mentions that she's a replacement for someone who had a similar job - again, we know what happened to her predecessor in the last book, so we have a richer picture of how Bosch sees this woman, but a new reader doesn't need that distraction, so Connelly keeps the story moving along briskly.
He isn't going with the "rogue cop" story because the genre requires it from time to time - he's doing it because we've had three books of Bosch fighting within the system to get justice for others, so the only way for him to get justice for himself is to go one step further and work outside the system entirely.
This is the fourth novel in the Harry Bosch series and despite it being over 500 pages I devoured this book in less than a day.
I think why the story was able to hold my interest so much is because this book explores what really had an impact on Harry's life, the murder of his mother.
I'm really excited to read the next book in the series because I don't know what lies ahead for the character and I don't think Harry really knows either.
Author Michael Connelly does a great job at linking this cold case with current day suspects as the impact of Bosch’s investigation is felt across Hollywood (from the newspapers to his fellow officers, to his mothers’ best friend at her time of death).The theme is standard police procedural yet Bosch’s character development goes beyond the norm as the reader is treated to the inner workings of Bosch – his drive, determination, love life, and sense of self preservation/destruction, all tied up in the pursuit of justice.I found it hard to put THE LAST COYOTE down as the overarching murder mystery is just addictive.
Another excellent and very readable book from the Harry Bosch series.
In this one our badly behaved Harry has behaved worse than usual and is temporarily suspended from duty.
I enjoyed the book because I really enjoy Harry as a character and as usual Michael Connelly's writing style kept me totally involved from beginning to end.
My only criticism would be that I struggled to keep up with the long, involved explanations at the end about who did what and why.
Otherwise an excellent book as usual and I am glad I still have heaps more to read about Harry:)
Meanwhile, bored and feeling like his life is out of control and his mission to be a good cop is being wasted, along with a liberal dollop of guilt at having been on the force for 20 years and never having looked into the murder that's closest to him, he starts investigating his mother's death.
I've wanted Harry to figure out what happened to his mother since the first book, when we learn that she was murdered.
Harry is unconventional, and the way that he goes about this investigation was something that I knew was going to spell trouble for sure.
The investigation takes some turns, and of course these books never turn out the way that you're sure that they will.
Bosch did many smart things that surprised me, things I did not expect.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Early in the book Harry said “I want (pause) I’m going to find her killer.” (My thoughts were yes you will.
One of the reasons these books are so good is that Bosch does the unexpected.
From afar he watched the reaction to the note and said “spooked you didn’t I you f***.” Something else unexpected was why Bosch was using a fake name and what happened as a result.Two vicious men tortured and killed someone.
We learned something of his Viet Nam experiences in The Black Echo, and some bits of his past in The Black Ice and The Concrete Blonde, but in this book we journey much deeper into his soul.There are the usual side-players, well-drawn mostly, with often hidden motives, and the love-interest "Jazz" wonderful and conflicted.
I noted in this book, again, that Harry loves the smell of his loves as they embrace, the mystery and physicality, the deep primal connection - something he and I have in common, and with Connelly, too, I suspect.Wonderful stuff.
Poignant, painful, wonderful, and complex, and as usual, the whodunit not always as you might guess.The more I read, the more I love Harry.
Another great Harry Bosch novel by Michael Connelly ... Harry's got problems, and Harry is far from perfect ... exactly what we want
My favourite of the series so far which really develops the character of Bosch - pretty hooked on these now. Great twists as usual - story seems to have finished with 40 pages still to go and then the whole thing is turned on its head !
This time he's having to see the department psychologist, suspended pending her evaluation of his suitability to return to work.
Harry's earthquake damaged home has been condemned and he's surreptitiously investigating a cold case murder of someone who was close to him.
This was a gnarly case with lots of players and potential suspects.
I liked that each lead didn't necessarily take Harry down the right path, giving me an opportunity to develop my own scenarios.
Dick Hill's narration, even with a few flubs, just works for me, too.
Another great installment in this series that has me wondering what's next for Harry.
This story is a lot about tragedy and sorrow, yet well written. 7 of 10 stars
It's more of an unsettling high, the kind that leaves one feeling spent and emotionally exhausted, but it's still a high nonetheless."The Last Coyote" is Connelly's fourth book in the series featuring his LAPD detective Heironymous "Harry" Bosch, and it is the best one in the series (thus far), in my humble opinion.Strangely enough, there is not a lot of action in this one, unlike some of his previous ones.
But to Harry, she was his mother, and she counted.His investigation into the 30-year-old murder case of a prostitute eventually does lead him to places he never would have suspected and, in some cases, uncomfortable truths about himself.
The narrative of these books is excellent.
I really appreciate the feeling of "getting lost" in the tale.
The story is excellent, but each time you get to see more about Harry Bosch.
This was an excellent mystery that has Harry Bosch struggling through the consequences of his actions and facing the loss and murder of his mother.
With his life in shambles, Harry struggles with what he is while trying to solve who wanted to kill his mother.
The pacing is nice, and there are some nice surprises.
If you enjoy a great Detective story, don't say I didn't warn you.
SUBJECT READER REVIEW WITH PLOT SPOILERS FOLLOWS: Talk about working bass-ackwards; I read twenty-some Michael Connelly novels, mostly mesmerized by his writing and storylines, only to discover that Harry solved the 'cold case' murder of his mother Margerie Phillips Lowe in 'The Last Coyote,' Bosch #5!
The fact that Margerie Lowe was a unwed mother and prostitute when she was murdered seems to have made a lifelong impact on Harry's life view: 'Everyone counts or nobody counts.' So does the fact that assistant District Attorney Arno Conklin-dedicated to extinguishing vice-falls madly in love with her and plans to marry her.
The Last Coyote is no 4 in the series and to me one of the best, in it Detective Bosch tries to finally solve the case of who murdered his mother Marjorie Lowe.
The Last Coyote is a lovely thoughtful title and one that Bosch thinks he has an affinity to.
Bosch is able to devote his time to this case as he has been temporarily suspended following an incident with Lieutenant Pounds and the story naturally plays out in a political arena where the perpetrator has been able to stay undetected for many years.
Wow!
Depressing.
Harry is one morbid guy, but really interesting.
On leave, he tackles the case closest to his heart & it's a humdinger.
I liked the ending, but most of it was depressing.
How the man finds the energy to get up in the morning is beyond me & pretty much the point.
These books are like peanuts.
While each is pretty self-contained, there are just enough threads left to make me want to go on to the next.
I can't wait until I get to those my library has as audio books.
it is absulutly one of his best. Bush descovers his sensetive sise snd like allways all comrs from a fucked up childhood. connely builds an amazing story. he his a master of his craft.
Because who does not want more Bosch?The plot itself consists of two main threads - the afore mentioned soul searching that happens due to a forced stress leave and the search for a resolution to his mother's murder.
The soul searching is the primary thread in the initial portions of the book and slowly, the murder takes precedence until the final pages of the book where Harry is forced to look at himself and make some hard decisions.As a mystery, I was not hooked on to it, unlike the previous books.
Initially resentful of feeling like the shrink is there to judge him, Harry starts to take a hard look at his life and realizes what he needs to do to maybe move on is to figure out who murdered his mother.
Harry thinks that if he solves his mother's murder maybe he can stop feeling so angry all of the time.
Harry at this point is without a girlfriend (I have never been so happy to see a character go) and does not know what he wants.
I enjoyed the new character of Carmen Hinojos who is the psychologist for the Los Angeles Police Department.
Must be the fact that I’ve read all of the Mickey Haller series where Harry (we’re on a first name basis now) plays a role in the books, sometimes bigger than 'walk-ons.’ I simply love Michael Connelly’s skillful writing.
His writing is in a league of his own and I’ve read enough noir to compare them.To me, thus far, Harry has been an enigma and not very likable, to me, anyhow.
Because of the episode between Harry and his boss, he’s placed on involuntary stress leave and ordered to see the LAPD psychologist.
In department mandated counseling sessions, Harry is forced to examine his actions, express his feelings, and bare his soul about past and present events – something he is not comfortable doing.
Through counseling sessions and Harry’s “off-the-record” investigation into a 1961 unsolved murder, readers learn a lot more about what makes Harry tick including his past and the life that contributed to the damaged man he is now.
What a heart-breaker.The Last Coyote left me with an uneasy feeling of having accidentally peeked through a window straight into Harry’s soul.
8/10Harry Bosch sets out to solve a murder which took place over 30 years ago, the murder of his mother.
He truly does though; at no point did I think he wouldn't solve the case even with his police privileges revoked.Well worth reading if you're this far into the series, but it can also be read as a standalone and would provide some useful back story to Bosch for a newcomer with nothing which would confuse anyone who hasn't read previous outings.If you like this try: "Knots & Crosses" by Ian Rankin
We learn (along with Bosch in the story) about Harry's mission and what it means for Harry to be a detective.
Just a side note about the likability of the character, Harry Bosch.
In reading this story again, I can really see the unlikable side of Harry Bosch.
But I believe that the tragic events of this story and ones to come make Harry Bosch into a more mature and dare I say, likable character.Through it all, what dose not change is the mission.
And ultimately this is what I like about Harry.
I'm on a mission to fill in the early days of Harry Bosch. I started in the middle of the series and missed this essential book on Harry's background. Harry has been suspended for insubordination...he beat the crap out of his supervisor...and has to attend a psych evaluation before he can be reinstated to the force. In the meantime he decides to investigate the murder of his mother. This is one of the best Connelly novels, twists and turns galore. Four stars for The Last Coyote
Even though it's a year later Connelly easily catches us up on what's been happening with our guy.Harry's relationship with Sylvia is over, he's on leave, going to Chinatown (a department psychologist) and is hoping to get back to active duty soon.
I don't think Harry can move on with his life or feel whole without knowing the how, who and why.
Once again Connelly gives us a good mystery fleshed out by the continuation of strong characters.
Music and art remain an important part of Harry's life and the streets of LA are becoming more and more familiar with each book.
I may have hearing damage, but I could not put it down.I love the fact that these aren't the kind of mystery stories that are about surprising you with the identity of the killer.
Instead we follow Harry as he develops suspects and investigates the case.
This tends to lead from the suspect that you're assuring him couldn't be the real killer on to the next possible suspect and the next.
This one starts out with Harry being on suspension for putting his Lieutenant's face through the office window.
For fans of Michael Connelly's Harry Bosch series, this book is the must-read prequel, of sorts, that explains the central character's general angst and anger.
In The Last Coyote, Connelly does a credible job in terms of plot and character, and he sustains suspense well enough to keep me up past my bedtime.
The mood is dark, but the book is never boring, and there's a little intrigue at the end that should bring real Bosch fans for the next installment.
All-in-all, this particular specimen of mystery-suspense escapist literature does its job well.I do have two little gripes.
