https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101299.The_Reader
All of them, it shouldn't be necessary to emphasise, 'volunteered' for the careers and styles of living they now suffer from.A central question posed to The Reader's defendant in her trial for causing the death of Jewish prisoners trapped in a burning church is, "Why didn't you unlock the door?" I posed essentially the same question to my three acquaintances: "The situation you now find yourself in did not occur overnight." I gently suggested, "Therefore as you perceived what was happening to your mind, to your family, to the quality of your life, to national culture, why didn't you stop?" In principle, stopping is even less difficult than unlocking a door.
booring.
is that a review??
this was just very flat to me.
i wasn't offended by the subject matter - i could care less about the "scandalous" elements.
at one point, i blamed the translation, but c'mon - its not that hard to translate german to english (i can't do it, of course, but it's supposed to be one of the easiest translations) i have nothing helpful to say about this except i was bored bored bored.
the characters were unappealing, the "twists" were ho-hum, and i thought it very dry .i don't know what oprah was thinking...come to my blog!
I have the feeling there's more than one way of looking at this book.
On the other hand, it's the post-war German generation coming to terms with their past, the Nazi crimes and their parents' guilt.
Guilt, actually, is a recurring theme in the novel: Hanna is guilty of war crimes, Michael is guilty for betrayal (plus he feels guilty for having loved Hanna and asks himself if that makes him a criminal as well), Michael's father for not being enough of a father.
On a bohemian level, the novel is about love for books and reading, so that's a plus for bookworms :)
This is the deep character development and type of writing that i've been craving. A book that made me think and ask so many questions. Sometimes I felt like I was struggling through really heavy writing, but the actual story itself and the moral questions that arise from its telling were really, really interesting and I surprised myself with how much I found myself contemplating this novel. Someone told me there's a movie with Kate Winslet and she is my actual wife so i'm gonna go track that down bye
I couldn't see it as a love story, I saw it as being about an adult who takes advantage of a child (all very ironic when I think about my first interpretation of Lolita, but I guess I grew up somewhat).It has been suggested that we are expected to draw parallels between Hanna's secret and the behaviour of most German people during the second world war, that is why Schlink deliberately set the novel in this fragile post-war period.
I'm trying not to give away Hanna's secret in case there are people who haven't worked it out straight away, but I wasn't buying into this metaphor.This combined with the author's sparse tone quickly distanced me from the novel.
The book is clearly structured. Also the choice of words is at a normal level and therefore also suitable for beginners in classical, great literature.
The first part of the novel, untouched by the shadow of the recent war or Germany's disturbed and dangerous past, deals with Michael and Hanna's burgeoning relationship, and the little fears and worries that can make up one big problem.
Love, guilt and betrayal feature prominently in this novel.In many ways Hanna was innocent, and yet it becomes apparent that she lived every day with terrible guilt; Michael was a victim of her actions, and yet he too is guilty by association.
The reader of the title is Michael, who read to Hanna during the early part of the relationship; the reader is Hanna, alone in prison occupying herself by learning about the experiences of camp inmates.
Great book.Wonderful piece and remotely expressed Words flowing like water in oceans.I'd Miss someone with that book.As the Young Lady entangled with teen.Which flows the flawless love between them even when she got life imprisonment, She was turned to old. And Teen was turned to Man.Time had changed, but their love sustained as he gave her recordings of stories.Lovely Book.Also, Watch movie based on this novel, My one of favourite actress, the drama Queen Kate Winslet's performance was surreal .
...Part 2, Six years later, while attending law school, Michael is part of a group of students observing a war crimes trial.
He is trying to come to terms with his feelings for Hanna, and begins taping readings of books and sending them to her without any correspondence while she is in prison.
Hanna begins to teach herself to read, and then write in a childlike way, by borrowing the books from the prison library and following the tapes along in the text.
After 18 years, Hanna is about to be released, so he agrees (after hesitation) to find her a place to stay and employment, visiting her in prison.
And yet, its plot is not unrealistic or uncommon.It is about a sexual relationship between a young man and an older woman.It is about illiteracy and shame.It is about crimes against humanity, committed out of helplessness and an egocentric wish to hide one's own weakness.It is about the Holocaust weighing on the shoulders of post-1945 Germany's population.It is about the past being reshaped in memory when further knowledge about a person adds a new layer to a relationship.It is about the coexistence of complete indifference towards the lives of many human beings and compassion for one specific individual.It is surprisingly not much about hatred, despite the topic.It is about overcoming a disability.It is about facing justice - or not.It is painful to read.
" Hanna meant it as a serious question.
She did not know what she should or could have done differently, and therefore wanted to hear from the judge, who seemed to know everything, what he would have done.
Should Michael, being the only other person to know Hanna's secret, have exposed this secret in order to help her during the trial?
Should Michael have been more understanding toward Hanna, after the trial?Should the average German citizen feel shame for not doing more to avert the Holocaust?
How should today's German citizen feel towards their ancestors that had to endure World War II?
You be the judge...........
The biggest problem I had with this book was the fact that it made me feel...nothing.
I didn't feel connected to the characters or to any part of the plot.
I feel like the author intended to write the story this way though, because the writing style in general has a certain type of "coldness" to it, and the true feelings of a character are never really explored.
Some people might not be bothered by this, but I personally simply prefer feeling close and connected to the characters of a story.
There are dozens of reasons I'll pick up a particular title: I like the author; I like the subject matter; the book is an award winner; the book comes with many trusted recommendations; I was supposed to read the book in high school and I feel guilty because I played Goldeneye on my N64 instead.
This slim novel tells the story of an affair between 15 year-old Michael and the far-older Hanna, with whom he has an affair in West Germany in 1958.
Until the last person who survived said tragedy is dead, any author daring to touch the subject is going to get dinged a little.
Bernhard Schlink's forth and easily most popular novel opens in post-war Germany when a teenage boy, Michael Berg (who also narrates), embarks on a love affair with a thirty-something woman, Hanna, who disappears, then years later turns up in the dock as a former concentration camp guard accused of the mass murder of Jewish women locked in a burning church.
But I do not know how they do that, and I'm really uninterested in the epistemology of my writing." The theme certainly chimes, in terms of dramatically echoing the Third Reich's moral illiteracy, but the way the book has been enthusiastically taken up and used almost as documentary points to an impact that has far exceeded Schlink's immediate narrative ambitions.The hapless Hanna, conscientiously unscrupulous in the performance of her labor-camp duties, committed crimes against humanity, obviously.
Hace unos días una compañera de GR me recomendó esta lectura, y no dudé ni un segundo en ir a la biblioteca para ver si tenían este libro.
Es más, como sé que más o menos nos gustan las mismas lecturas, ni tan siquiera perdí el tiempo en leer la sinopsis.
Además, ¿no es más interesante abrir un libro sin saber lo que te vas a encontrar en su interior?
Pues bien, he de decir que esta lectura me ha gustado y sorprendido a partes iguales: he disfrutado con el amor de Michael por Hanna, y cuestionado el pasado de ella.
Kitabı'n çok akıcı bir dili var, betimlemeler, duygusal ve psikolojik tahliller çok iyiydi..Keşke Hanna nın ne düşündüğünü kendi ağzından öğrenebilseydim..Okunası..
This book just fell short with me, on oh so many levels.
That was really the only thing that struck me about this book.
I noticed that this novel has won awards and while it means absolutely nothing to me because her choices are not always great or even good in the least, but it was on Oprah's Book Club list a number of years back.
Neither are good enough reasons for anyone to read this book, in my opinion.
I am sure it would be much richer reading in any case than this novel.
Just not for me.Hated both characters.I didn't feel sorry for either of them.
You are unaware of the journey's passing, of temporal time, so engrossed are you in the present experience.The tale of 15-year-old Michael Berg (the first-person narrator) and thirty-something Hanna Schmidt, a tram conductor in post WW-2 Germany is pretty sordid in the beginning; having collapsed from hepatitis in front of her house, he is taken care of and helped home by her.
Hanna's strange, self-destructive behaviour in the courtroom as well as her unusual acts as the camp guard (providing vulnerable young inmates with special status in the camp, to read books to her, until they were sent to Auschwitz to their death) intrigue him.
She helps him and they begin a relationship.
He reads to her, and the intimacy is so strong that I'm not even sure how I should feel about it.
It feels real and raw, and dripping in lust, while at the same time, it feels wrong, and I'm left feeling something hollow and wondering if the moral question is bigger than the reality.Fast forward and Michael Berg finds himself on a panel listening to a court case against SS soldiers during WWII, and who should happen to walk onto the stand-- but Hanna Schmitz.
Their relationship is complex and detailed.
So many emotions and thoughts cross my mind, and at the end of the book, I'm still not sure how I should feel.
I thought this was an interesting (if not somewhat disturbing) story, but not one that particularly blew me away. The questions of morality and complicity are intriguing as well; probably my favorite parts of the story where Michael's recollections of his experiences and trying to make sense of which were good, how he should feel about them in hindsight, etc. Glad I finally read this because it is so famous but not one that I'm in love with.
Μια συγκλονιστική ιστορία ενηλικίωσης μέσα από μια ερωτική σχέση με φόντο τη ναζιστική γερμανία. Με μια ήρεμη δύναμη η αφήγηση απογειώνει το συναίσθημα. Κλείνω την αναγνωστική χρονιά μου με ένα ίσως από τα καλύτερα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει!
«Quería tener sitio en mi interior para ambas cosas: la comprensión y la condena. Pero las dos cosas al mismo tiempo no podían ser.» Es muy interesante este libro. Está ambientado en Alemania, pocos años después del fin de la Segunda Guerra Mundial y tiene un ritmo que va variando durante las tres partes en las que está dividido. Si bien al principio puede no parecer más que una historia juvenil de descubrimiento sexual, al ir transcurriendo el tiempo dentro de la vida del protagonista y narrad
Si bien al principio puede no parecer más que una historia juvenil de descubrimiento sexual, al ir transcurriendo el tiempo dentro de la vida del protagonista y narrador, va ganando una profundidad y complejidad filosófica/psicológica que lo vuelve, como ya dije, muy interesante.Una gran porción de 
La peculiaridad es que él es un chico de 15 años y ella una mujer de 36 de la que se enamorará, y con la que pronto iniciará una relación donde se complementará lo físico con horas de lectura en voz alta.No se puede decir que esta primer parte del libro sea erótica, creo que sería mas apropiado definirla como sensual.
The book centers on the reflections of a man who, as a teenager in post WW-II Germany, had a passionate love affair with a reticent and mysterious older woman.
The Reader envelops us in the painfully bittersweet and conflicted memories of a man whose lover turns out to be a mirage, and the resulting guilt he feels regarding their relationship, as it existed both before and after he learns about her shameful past.
This relationship is purposefully symbolic to represent for Schlink the complicated feelings of second generation Germans about the horrific legacy of the Holocaust, as perpetrated in varying degrees by their very own loved ones.
This story occurs in post-World War II Germany and centers around 15-year-old Michael Berg and a woman names Hanna Schmitz.
Is it what is on the books, or what is actively enacted and obeyed in society?" What was occurring in Germany at that time was that the younger generation was examining and discussing the crimes perpetrated during World War II so that they could discover the degree of guilt and responsibility which should be assigned to their elders.
To me, the story of Michael Berg and Hanna Schmitz was not simply their singular, personal story.
So many times while reading books about the Holocaust, I feel a disconnectedness from the events.
With a lot of Holocaust literature the villains are stock characters; the malevolent Colonel with no humanity, staring cold-eyed at the prisoners before sending them off to their deaths.
Delightfully, the author does not hand the reader a satisfactory answer, for what possible answer could there be?The book was not all death, doom and gloom.
Seduction via literature has to be my favorite thing ever and the early scenes where this takes place were some of the most tightly coiled eroticism I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
After all, the germans were not more ignorant than other people at the time.
My hypothesis is that Hanna’s illiteracy represents the inability of reading behind daily events and interpreting their possible consequences, which may sometimes be catastrophic.
The illiteracy means the absence of the power to question and to confront, a sort of numbness we feel as we follow a tedious daily routine.Hanna learned to read with Michael’s tapes.
She learned further about it reading books about concentration camps.That also happened to the generation who lived during the war and took part on it.
The love contained in the plot made me plod through the dusty attic of my mind from where the lines above clattered out.
With the passage of years there comes a clinical detachment while seeing the ones we loved and lost long ago.
The story changes lanes here and does a total flip and from a loved-and-lost tale, it becomes an intricately plotted tale of human morality and guilt.
In a particular passage which depicts a court scene, I was reminded of a couple of lines from a Steig Larsson book  There are no innocents, only varying levels of guilt .
Yet, when he reflects on the traumatic impact of Auschwitz, "he dwells on the vitality and creativity of those living today" and "thus, paradoxically, not on the past but the future." Bernhard Schlink, professor of law and practicing judge in Germany, born in 1944, has attempted to capture the struggles of his generation in confronting the past and the future in "The Reader".
Like Schlink himself, he grapples with the fundamental problem of the relationships between these two generations.Michael recounts the most important stages in his life, starting with experiences long passed in his youth.
Filmi bu kadar etkilediyse kitabı da aynı şekilde etkileyecektir diye düşünerek okumaya başladım ve kitabı bir çırpıda bitirdiğimde yanılmadığımı anladım.
Hanna Schmitz'den belki de nefret etmek gerekiyor; ama bir şekilde yapamıyorsunuz, bir yerden sonra anlamaya bile başlıyorsunuz.
Bundan hemen önce Kötülüğün Sıradanlığı'nı okumuştum (aslında akabinde Okuyucu'yu okumayı da bu neden tercih ettim) ve Hanna bana yer yer Adolf Eichmann'ı anımsattı.
Bundan sonrası spoiler olabilir, şimdiden uyarayım:Hanna, okuma yazma bilmeyen bir kadın ve bu durumdan dolayı da büyük bir utanç duyuyor.
Sırf okuyup yazamadığını belli etmemek için mahkemede bir yerden sonra kendisini savunmak yerine kendisine yüklenen suçlara razı oluyor.
