https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106931.I_Heard_the_Owl_Call_My_Name
The bishop who knows about Mark's impending death wisely sends him to Kingcome (Quee in the local tongue), a remote village in British Columbia.
That Mark is respectful of their culture soon becomes clear to the villagers: ““Did you notice that at the graveside he left quietly and asked no questions?” They all nodded.
And what will he say when he knows we are losing our sons, and that our young no longer understand the meaning of the totems?”"  This last sentence is significant as the novel addresses the issue of preservation of First Nation culture.
The actual title says it all and I'm going to purchase a copy of this and re-read it.I couldn't resist adding part of a review that I read on Amazon this morning:"With stunning narrative, the plot revolves around a young dying vicar, Mark Brian, who went to an Indian village called Kingcome in the Pacific Northwest completing his last mission (though he did not know he only had three years to live).
Hinting at undersea marine life flourishing so gloriously in that warm, deep, Alive Blue Water.And the famed Haida Totem Poles along the shore with their phantasmagorical animal faces...Young Father Mark finds himself in just such a nature-reverent aboriginal village as these richly painted poles proclaim.But Mark Brian doesn't know he has less than two years to live.
‘If he knows, he'll try too hard,’ he says wistfully.So Mark has to learn to EASE into his role - his role as chosen proclaimer of the coming of the Kingdom - in this remote band of aboriginal survivors on the Pacific coast in British Columbia.
The depth and majesty of this telling is only equal to its superb "eyes" for those of the tribe who live in the village of Kingcome.
The natural world of the inlets of British Columbia and the path of Mark, the new vicar- are far, far beyond what only the eyes can see and the words describe.Classic.
If it is not, than it absolutely should be.
Would that all endings could be as worthy and dramatic as Mark's.
And the acceptances of change, yet without a moment's forgetting of a giving respect and honor to past humans' efforts for better, be as solid as the elders.
Rereading this novel as an adult and for the first time in decades, and as an increasingly critical peruser who has recently become painfully aware of the fact that there has been and continues to be rather much patronising stereotyping and cultural appropriation with regard to Native American and Native Canadian culture, lore and thematics, and this is especially and even seemingly regularly the case with regard to literature for children and young adults penned by authors who are NOT of aboriginal, not of Native American or Canadian background, I have now and with increasing pleasure realised just how special and in many ways avant-guarde Margaret Craven's writing in I Heard the Owl Call my Name truly is.
Nature writing is a theme I enjoy, but I personally didn't find it here.
The language is flat.A character in the book is to die, and the way this is treated is not direct enough for me.
The audiobook narration is not hard to follow, but I would have preferred less theatrics in the telling.
I quite simply was not the right reader for this book.
I don’t want life simplified.
I prefer being shown life’s complexities.
I am not looking for easy answers, and that is how they are drawn in this book.
I think I read it in junior high, although I may be confusing it with Hal Borland's When the Legends Die (both are books about Indians in the woods).
The young vicar suggested the teacher cut two round holes for his knees to stick through, and offered to trade his outhouse for the teacher's bathroom, but the teacher was not amused.
There were two kinds of naivete, he said, quoting Schweitzer; one not even aware of the problems, and another which has knocked on all the doors of knowledge and knows man can explain little, and is still willing to follow his convictions into the unknown.
Although written by an American, the story is set in British Columbia and tells of a young vicar who is sent to live with a native tribe.
The reason for this is not much of a spoiler because it is literally written on the first page: The vicar has been sent to this particular post because his superior learned that the vicar was terminally ill and hoped that his experience with the tribe would help him cope.
And the young people regretted going and wanted to go, and the elders wanted to keep them and were relieved when they went.
This was a re-read for me, but it might as well have been my first time, I remembered so little.
Mind you, I think I was in my teens when I read it the first time.
My only memory of it was a feeling of melancholy.The young vicar, Mark, is sent to the Kwakiutl village of Kingcome by his bishop, who knows Mark has a terminal illness, but chooses not to tell him.
How the clash of cultures becomes intense as the children come home for Christmas.
In his tenure in Kingcome, he learns more of friendship and community than he ever anticipated—and this is why his bishop sent him there.
This is one of the most powerful novels of the First Nations people I have ever read.
The natives of Kingcome, where the novel is set, agree with this assessment.
Her imagination was captured by a report about Eric Powell, an Anglican priest who was sent to teach the natives in Kingcome but, by his own report, instead learned much from them about the peace that their culture brings to them—and could bring to him.
Eric Powell still lives in the Islands, and has contributed his recipe for Apricot and Lemon Grass-stuffed Salmon to the BC Salmon Fisheries’ cookbook….
The Swimmer's Season       The young vicar stopped his patching and descended the ladder.      "Chief Eddy," he said earnestly, "there is something I have been meaning to ask you. How do you pronounce the name of your tribe?" It is spelled Tsawataineuk.      "Jowedaino."      There was a silence.      "Would you mind saying it again?"      "Jowedaino," and Mark listened more carefully than he had ever listened to any work in his entire life and could not tell if the word was Zowodaino or Chowud
The bishop decides not to tell the young vicar, in case it should make him try too hard, but sends him to the parish where he feels he will learn most quickly: the village of Kingcome, at the head of the Kingcome Inlet off Queen Charlotte Sound.
Although Mark is an Anglican vicar, religion is not a major theme of this book, but as much the background to his life as are the forests and mountains surrounding the village.
5 stars for teaching me about Life.I'm so happy they made us read this in 6th grade! Of course, that meant that only two other people liked it (I'm weird, aren't I? Everyone loved The Hobbit but me and no one loved this book but me.) In its pages, I glimpsed something magical and meaningful, some truth about life. I think it helped shape who I am, at least a little.
A rather enchanting and beautiful story that captures both the vicar's thinking and the tribe's, somehow, in the words used.
The language is spare and to the point - carved into a story like one of the masks.
The Bishop is astonishingly wise, which is a bit hard to credit (Bishops being usually administrative rather than pastorally talented in my experience).
But he had done his time there also.I cried at the end - not a common event for me.
The final ending, afterwards, was, if it was the hand of God, the conferral of God's mercy and I did see that coming.
This is a fifty year old book (published first in 1967 in Canada), and I know it has sold a few million copies and that I am coming to the party late.
However, this book touched me profoundly.
There is a sadness that permeates this material - it anticipates and mourns the passing away of old ways and traditions, and looks ahead with resignation if not optimism.
I fell in love with the characters.
The novel gives it's gifts quietly - they are not store bought or wrapped up in pretty paper - they are the greatest gifts: faith, hope and love - and I would add acceptance.
This is the best book ever. I read it back in high school a long long time ago. It is a power novel that had me crying by the end of the. I remember my entire class sitting in pin drop silence when the teacher finished reading. I highly recommend this book. As I said, the best book.
mp3hanky read
He is not aware of it at the time and sets about trying to win the respect of the people whom he must tend to.I was drawn in completely by the story and relished Mark's deep sense of spirituality that transcended any strict interpretation of Christian theology.
However, for much the same reasons as I couldn't give Oliver's Twist five stars, this story descended into several socio-political commentaries and an ending too neatly tied up.
An Anglican bishop sends a young priest to a remote First Nation village in northwest Canada.
The priest is terminally ill but he doesn't know it yet.
(He has trageditis, the same mysterious disease that killed Beth March along with numerous Dickens characters.) I think his story turns out to be our own.
God sends us into a strange world.
Or will we be like the priest: feeling our way; loving and being loved; learning from our community and our surroundings; in the end, dying like the salmon?
Margaret Craven works all this out in a nice story.
A wonderful historical book about the life and beliefs of the indigenous people in British Columbia and the encroaching Western world. This was like reading poetry mixed with philosophy and religion. An easy short read with a lot of depth. (This was one of the few books I remember my mother reading. She loved it. At the time she worked at SeaTac airport and in the 70's it was infused with Native American decor and the gift shops were filled with those types of items as souvenirs. Sort of brings me back to another time.)
Was part of our English curriculum in high school.
This is a beautiful short novel, the story told in spare, simple, stark prose, each word evoking the setting, the people, and their emotions.
A young Anglican priest, Mark, ailing [with what I am guessing is cancer, although we never know for sure], with only two years to live, is sent by his bishop to minister to a Kwakiutl Indian tribe in British Columbia.
[Never forget]  you  know nothing and  they  must teach you." Mark is humble and learns from these people.
The novel was an incisive portrayal of an Indian tribe, maybe one of the best there is, although the story was fictional.
This book touched me in its calm and unspectular language and pace that matches life in this Indian village where a young vicar finds a whole new world - and a home.In my opinion the author himself gives the best review on the final pages of his own book:"And what had he learned?
Surely not the truth of the Indian.
He had learned a little of the truth of one tribe in one village.
He had seen the sadness, the richness, the tragic poignancy of a way of life that each year, bit by bit, slipped beyond memory and was gone.
Lovely. A welcome counterpoint to the more politically-charged First Nations' novels I've been reading so much of lately. Sad, but not angry. Reminded me of Cather's Death Comes For The Archbishop--similarly episodic, lyrical and atmospheric. A gorgeous read and a very sympathetic priest whose relationship with the Kwakiutl tribe on the coast of BC, (view spoiler)[dying out slowly as he is, (hide spoiler)] whom he lives with, learns about, and loves, could have been a cliché but avoids it by being among the first such portrayal in contemporary literature, and also just being so plainly but well written. Highly recommended.
The setting is a young priest sent to work on a native american reservation in the pacific northwest.Once you get past the implausible set-up (i.e., young priest is terminally ill, but will be healthy and symptom-free for two years; doctor tells the priest's SUPERVISOR/bishop this diagnosis but hides it from the priest), it is a pleasant story about friendships that develop across cultures.
There isn't a lot of action - it's more just a slice of life - but the characters are strong enough to hold interest.
While there will always be spectacularly evil religious leaders in the news, there are still some who just live their faith and do their jobs.
The more I think about it, the more I really like this book. It's about a priest who goes up north to serve a parish that consists of several Indian villages. He doesn't turn native, he doesn't try to turn them white, and he doesn't fall in love with an Indian maiden. He is really very Christlike in his approach: he lives among the people, respects them, helps them out, and loves them. It's beautiful.
The setting. The characters. The sentiment. Based on comments from one of my friends, I didn't expect to like this book. But it was good. Maybe it wasn't her type of story.
İkinci okuyuşum. Geçtim kızılderili arkadaşlarımızı, memlekete gidince çeşmeden su içmek bile beni şaşırtıyor. Sanki doğduğumdan beri pet şişeden suyumu içermişim gibi... Radyodan dinledim, Yeryüzü Derneği çocuklarla birlikte on dokuz litrelik su damacanalarının yarısını kesip içinde patates, domates filan yetiştirmişler. Yani biz buralarda hem kendimize hem de toprağa o kadar uzak düştük. Arayı nasıl kapatacağız bilinmez. Bildiğim yarım damacanalarla olmaz gibi geliyor bana.... Bakalım, ne desem uzun!!!!
Alkukantainen, karu ja kaunis.
Pre-Reading:  I had never heard of this book before this class, so I really didn't know what to think.
From reading the back cover and studying the cover page, I did not think I would enjoy reading this novel.
B. During Reading:  I am reading more than five chapters in one sitting so it must be a good book.
Adolescents (including some adults I know) can learn non-conformiy from this novel because they always have someone around them all the time.
This novel facinates me with its ability to tell a wonderful fictional story and keep readers interest by alluding to common ground.
This is a book I was given as a teen, and just read now.
I have had it on my bookshelves all of these years!
I had it all of these years, and I have picked it up and started it more than once.
READ IT"!
It is always wonderful to come upon a new story that can change your perspective.
This book features one of the most challenging parts of life and and our perspective of it..death.
But it opens your mind to the beauty of re-evaluating life in the process.
Very beautiful!
Perfect way to start a New Year!
