https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1227457.Hudson_Taylor
The power of prayer cannot be diminished by distance; it is not limited by age, infirmity, or daily duty; political changes and restrictions cannot alter its effectiveness; for the word still stands, "If ye shall ask anything in my name I will do it." The power of prayer in the life of an obedient Christian can only be undermined by neglect."Thus is the ending of an amazing little autobiography of Hudson Taylor.
So many times while reading this book, I could only sit and shake my head, wondering why I do not have the faith that this man had.
Very convicting story of a man who wasn't afraid to truly live by faith more than one hundred and fifty years ago. If you want to read something that is more than Christian fluff for the complacent, then read this book!
This little book was so encouraging to me. I was amazed by the faith of Hudson Taylor, his reliance on prayer, and the ways God drastically provided for him again and again. I felt alarmed at how little I rely on God through prayer, and even how little I genuinely believe in the power of it. I was encouraged by his urgency to preach the gospel as well as the love he had for the people he was around. Hudson Taylor was certainly the real deal, and I can't wait to meet him one day.
Hudson Taylor's short autobiography should be required reading for Everyone who desires to serve God either through overseas missions, or in their own hometown.
says the Lord."  The power of prayer in the life of an obedient Christian can only be undermined by neglect.Over 1 of the entrances to the China Inland Mission in London stands the text so dear to Hudson Taylor, "Have Faith in God."On the other side of it:  "Hitherto hath the Lord helped us,"  and  "The Lord will Provide."
He was an amazing man, with an amazing faith in God's provision.
The author tried to convey his struggles, but, perhaps due to the writing style, I left the book feeling like this man was a "spiritual giant." Someone who God used specially because he was special.
Like I am not able to be used that way.
However, I also was reminded of some important truths.
-My devotional life, my personal connection to God, is incredibly important.
If I don't guard it fiercely, it will be snatched away.
-You depend on many things...
money, comfortable life...
Pray.
Pray, pray, pray.
I saw that the Apostolic plan was not to raise ways and means, but to go and do the work, trusting in His sure Word who has said, "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you." (p.93)It led me to look carefully through my little library to see if there were any books there that were not needed or likely to be of further service, and to examine my small wardrobe, to be quite sure that it contained nothing that I should be sorry to give an account of should the Master come at once.
A great book about a great, sacrificial man of God.
I loved this book. Hudson's story will remain in my heart all my life. It's an amazing story of how God abides faithful all our life, and it serves to teach us God is mighty able. If you lack faith or have not trusted in God for all your needs, you might need a book like this one to wake up: and remember our God is mighty for "Hitherto hath the Lord helped us" and we can trust "The Lord will provide."
it was a little rough to get through, but i admire hudson taylor like CRAZY - i recommend 'it is not death to die' by jim cromarty for an easier way to walk through hudson's life .....
It is incredibly encouraging and awe-inspiring to read the details of how God provided for His faithful servant and how the name of Christ came to be known in a region where so many had fallen to their graves without knowing of Christ's offer of salvation.
His faith is tested; he encounters terrifying circumstances; he doesn't know what lies in store for him.
James Hudson Taylor was a God-fearing man, a faithful and obedient servant, a disciple that lived out the commands Christ has bestowed on us all as His church-as His body.
Only now do we think of Afrika and Asia as great mission outreach sites and talk about the shifting of the center of Christianity in the world to those locations.
Just a hundred and sixty years ago, the countries in Afrika and Asia almost completely consisted of idol worshippers, and Christians were almost non-existent there.
As the first missionaries, like Hudson Taylor in China, went to those countries, they faced resistance, life threats, and persecution.
Even if one does not want to become a missionary, this written work may help one to approach faith in a completely different way, a way that may challenge and deepen one's faith.
This short autobiography of the man who brought Christ to the interior of China was succinct yet powerful.
It worked through his early years as a teenager when he received the call from the Lord to the people of China, and spent a good bit of time on the journey that brought him to that land.
The writing was a bit dated, obviously, but in some way that made it seem more powerful.
This man's faith serves as a guidepost on the path of Jesus for the rest of us today.
Wonderful Little BookA slow read at first, but worth finishing! I love this quote from Hudson Taylor, “ I wandered on the sands alone, in great spiritual agony; and there the Lord conquered my unbelief.”
Encouraging and faith-givingI loved reading this book. I was moved to a greater place of trust in God by reading about how the Lord provided so consistently for Taylor. My evangelistic zeal was also stirred up by Taylor's passion to see the lost meet the Savior.
Enjoyed this biography.
Read Hudson Taylor’s story in Romanian many years ago and was very encouraged by his example as a follower of Jesus.
This is a concise account of Hudson Taylor’s life up until he formed the China Inland Mission. He tells a few stories of how he relied upon God and God provided.
Well written, short autobiography of Hudson's work in China and his love for the people of that country.
Powerful testimony of a famous, pioneering missionary. Awesome!
One of the the best books I've ever read - what an insight into a man who truly knew and trusted his God.
I love to read book because it is so interesting about how brave he was he was able to reach people for Jesus.
Hudson Taylor was a great man of prayer and of course full of missionary zeal.
This book was a great encouragement to me, and will be to those really pursuing the discipline and joy of a bountiful, intimate, prayer life.
This book is full of great little knowledge nuggets about prayer, money, missionary financing and one story in particular that presses hard the issue of a sense of urgency in being about the business of God and obeying the Great Commission.
I have been advised, that if you want to be a great man or woman of God, it's good to read about great men and women of God. Read.
Book.
I had to kick my brain into a higher gear to read this book since I mostly read children's books right now. It also took me longer with all the distractions, but I really enjoyed this book. Great insight into missionary life. The struggles, prayers, support, and daily activities. I enjoyed the format of the book with his own journals and thoughts as well as the inputs from others at the beginning and end.
Any Christian who is serious about serving God on the mission field should read this. Taylor tried to serve under the authority and traditions of his local Church and finally, after living through depression because of his fruitless endeavours, started listen to the Holy Spirit. He started living as the Chinese, much to the embarrassment of his consrvative English friends, and God used him mightily.
I think this is a must-read for all Christians. The most compelling thing to me about Hudson Taylor is how he determined to trust in God only for his finances as a missionary. Before he left for the mission-field he decided to see if it would work and live by faith for 1 year and tell no one. The miraculous ways that God provides for him are worth the read alone. I've read this book twice and got a lot out of it both time.
Taylor pioneered many methods widely used these days and the story of his service in China is awesome-especially when you look at what God has done with the seeds planted before the Boxer Rebellion and the communist takeover. This is a short book but it is, obviously, an autobiography and tells of Taylor's life before he became a Christian and after (or as Hudson recalls what the older Christians of his day called conversion: "becoming serious"-a dour term indeed!).
Convicting. "Perhaps if there were more of that intense distress for souls that leads to tears, we should more frequently see the results we desire. Sometimes it may be that while we are complaining of the hardness of the hearts of those we are seeing to benefit, the hardness of our own hearts, and our won feeble apprehension of the solemn reality of eternal things, may be the true cause of our want of success"
Good Short Intro on Hudson TaylorIt is a short autobiography, not all interesting but worth reading. There are several things that can be learned from Taylor: 1. The value of prayer for all decisions, even for funds needed. 2. Dependance on the Lord and not on human efforts. 3. The need of being an evangelist and a missionary to people that don't know Christ. 4. The need to have a servant's heart in ministry.
Inspiring and divine! This story was wonderfully told. The power of prayer was manifested in this man's story from the first page to the last. An easy read that made me remember the importance of fulfilling the Great Commission. Anyone who wishes to spread the wonderful news of Jesus Christ should read this book! So, everyone should read it!!
Hudson Taylor thought God was calling him to a mission in China, and he thought that in China he would have to rely only on God and not on men. So, to train himself in this way of life, he moves to poorer quarters, almost starves himself, gives away his money, prays constantly, and goes to medical school. Wow.
