https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325895.Jean_de_Florette
As the dark season is upon me here in the north, I start revisiting sunny locations, like the beautiful setting of rural Provence in Jean de Florette.I bought this book in Arles, in a perfect bookshop/coffee place/music store/cinema combination (in my next life I will work there!), and started reading it that same night, while still on vacation in Provence.
And of course we bought books in all bookstores...I adored the main character, the hard-working, loving, caring and adventurous soul of Jean, who invested his life in a dream that did not come true, partly because he was tricked by neighbours with their own long-term agenda, and partly because agriculture is a tricky business in itself, relying on nature and her moody approach to seasonal regularity.
I longed for a much more layered and nuanced story behind Jean's ultimate failure; instead I found a man who willingly and blithely ignores his own limitations in favour of stupefying and (pardon the pun) harebrained schemes for success, with nothing more to his credit than his blind optimism, his harmonica and his book-learning.
I didn't feel that Pagnol offered much more insight than this -- which ultimately turns Jean into a caricature of optimism for me.
You won't find any fancy stuff in a Marcel Pagnol story.
He'll simply draw you into the place where he wants you taken, makes his characters alive before your very eyes, and then leads you to believe that like you he also does not know what will happen next or how the whole thing will end.
When the tale finally did end here, there was an uncontrollable feeling of outrage.
A great injustice has been done!
And no one would doubt here that there'll be a much-awaited sequel.Marcel Pagnol was not only a great story-teller but an astute businessman as well.
Definitely a nice, well told story. Two main characters: the impressive and tragic figure of Jean, a citydweller who thinks he can create paradise on earth out of books, and he almost seems to succeed in this; and the hesitant Ugolin who, driven by greed, drives Jean to his misfortune, but at the same time suffers for what he's doing. In other words: Pagnol offers us the themes of the impotence of modernism, and the battle between greed and conscience. Beautifully told, with an eye for the idyllic-looking but actually inexorable nature of the Provence.
Theme tune (think Stella Artois) http://youtu.be/KFNt8XYR4Yo
Ze zwijgen als vermoord over de bron die achter de hoeve verborgen zit, om zelf het onroerend goed voor zich te kunnen winnen.'Jean de Florette' is één van de klassiekers uit het oeuvre van Pagnol.
Van het moment dat Pique Bouffigue, Ugolin en le Papet opduiken, tot de laatste twee na het overlijden van Jean de Florette de hoeve (weer) in handen krijgen: elke wending zit boordevol oerfranse finesses en verrassende Pagnolhumor.
De kleine man die vastberaden is om zijn doel - lees: de hoeve terug in handen krijgen - te bereiken.Quoting Pagnol himself: 'Quand on a commencé d'étrangler le chat, il faut le finir.'Heerlijk boek!(@dierenrechtenorganisaties: dit laatste heet een metafoor.
Ce livre vous fait prendre une pause bienvenue, surtout si vous avez passé une bonne partie de votre enfance dans les monts et des villages du Var où se déroule le drame. On peut comprendre pourquoi le vallon fertile attire tant ces paysans, mais on ne peut pas leur pardonner le double jeu qu'ils mènent...
Oh dear, I give everything five stars! (because I only finish books I love).I read this in French, with a dictionary, and slowing down like that so deepened my enjoyment. Watched the film at the end as a treat.
Wow, over a year to finish this one. I lost my first copy when I moved apartments and just recently acquired a replacement. So heartachingly good. Makes me want to move to Boulder, Utah to raise goats in the hills.
my summer is not complete without having read Jean de Florette and Manon des sources, so I've read both countless times both in French and in German and still love them to pieces. vivid descriptions and colorful characters evoke pictures in my mind and I can smell Provence and feel its sun burning. this is perfect literature.
One of my favorite French authors. Pagnol's writing is so clear you really get a sense of 'provence' through his eyes. An unforgetable story.
Was an entertaining read during a long flight between Poland and Canada.
De omgeving en de natuur is natuurlijk niet meer dezelfde als in de tijd van Pagnol, maar alleen al het vertoeven in deze streek maakt het lezen van deze meesterlijke roman nog sappiger.
Het is bijna met verve dat Pagnol de slechtheid van de dorpelingen tekent, het raakt je diep in je ziel en je voelt ook de wroeging die gaat komen.
Jean De Florette, "le Bossu", is het prototype van de man die gecultiveerd en geletterd is, maar terug naar de natuur wil...
Manon, zijn dochter, daarentegen, wordt een echt wild "natuurmeisje", maar dat is voor het volgende deel...

Beautiful story about obsession in the vein of Roman pastoral poems.
I read the books and watched the movies and they are both awesome. This is the first one and then you have to read Manon des Sources.
I actually read the english translation by W.E. van Heyningen but that only appears as one volume for this and Manon Des Sources. There doesn't appear to be a single volume version in English.
Une belle histoire, plein d'émotion et d'humour. Pagnol est un maître à décrire ses personnages; leurs motivations et leurs faiblesses. Hautement recommandé.
Jedna z mých nejoblíbenějších knih, je to krásná, klidná a velice poučná kniha z nádherného prostředí francouzského Provence.
Livro excelente. Escrita simples e fluída. Enredo muito bem estruturado, bem como os personagens. Ansioso pela leitura dos segundo.
What a lovely, beautiful, evil little story. How can a tragedy be such an enjoyable read?
On retrouve finalement 3 grands types de personnes, Jean qui est victime de son optimiste sur plusieurs points de sa vie et qui finalement est peut être le plus "amical" des 3 pour le lecteur (quand il ne se lance pas dans de grandes leçons théoriques ou chiffrées sur la nature et les récoltes), Ugolin qui est attiré par le succès et la fortune potentiellement issus de son futur projet mais qui a tout de même des scrupules à suivre Papet qui lui n'a absolument aucun scrupule à souhaiter l'échec de Jean, voire à le provoquer.
Ces deux derniers personnages sont repugnants en un sens, surtout le Papet parce que l'issue de ce drame est terrible mais cela ne crée aucun regret chez lui.
A scene is relevant for their attitude, wherein the family of the desperate Jean walks through the village as the men play petanque.One of them takes the ball and aims, but not at the normal target, but at a pool of mud and the dirt falls on the clothes of the family, with Jean getting mad and ready to through the ball back, into the face of the villain.The others comment:-	You should have thrown it at his backTo end in a light, humorous note:Jean de Florette talks to his enemy- that pretends to be a friend- Ugolin and he uses a vocabulary that betrays his good education and generous, compassionate, positive views of the world and humankind:-	I want to live here in the countryside and cultivate the authentic-	“l’authentique”??Poor Ugolin thinks authentic is a plant
While Jean tries to make it thru the drought, he never seems to learn that his neighbors who fake friendship and concern are secretly hoping he will fail. A fair enough "To Build a Fire" - type plot that is practically ruined by an artificial climax. Warning: Very depressing.
I ended up loving the randoms antics that Jean and his family would go through during their stay at the farm, and many times it hurt my heart to see them struggle to get by.
In particular, I was very torn when they would describe how desperately Jean fetch water at the well every day, when Aimée broke down crying and admitted she already sold her necklace, and when Jean got sick for 6 days and all their crops died.
-__- Anyways, point is, I really liked this book and I would love to read it's sequel, which is called "Manon des Sources".
Jean de Florette is a novelized version of the first half of Manon des Sources a film that the author had made ten years earlier in 1952.
Jean de Florette is indeed a pleasure of the highest order.
The reader is amply satisfied a the end as the novel finishes with a glorious Aristotelian catharsis.You will of course read the sequel Manon des Sources to see nemesis visited on the evil doers.If you are an Anglophone your interested in this novel is probably the result of your having seen the movie with Daniel Auteuil, Yves Montand and Gerard Depardieu.
This is a novel that revolves around a tiny Provencal village and a farmer determined to wrestle a living out of a dilapidated farm, a farm that holds much promise. It is a novel that features lifestyles both simplistic and harsh, as drought and set-backs continue to thwart the farmer. We feel great sympathy for the farmer's plight and his charming family and we crave justice for Jean. This is the first of a series of stories, The Water of the Hills, and reading this novel will inspire you to read more from this author.
I love Marcel Pagnol and his books! Their simplicity and sometimes their innocence are absolutely arresting. Although I enjoyed his Souvenirs d'enfance more, this was also pretty good. The only reason I'm not giving it four stars is that I thought there were parts where it dragged a bit, but I doubt any other author could ever keep me interested in a story about trying to find water! I will read Manon des sources for sure!
Meant to read this years ago. Typically Gallic gloom, and a pleasantly unsympathetic depiction of the antagonists who, apparently get their (deserved) comeuppance in Manon des Sources. Surprisingly quick to read and a definite homage to the peasant rural way of life.
This is a book to which I return often. I enjoy Pagnol, and this is my favourite of him. The characters and the detail are perfect. The cruel and tragic actions driven by great and envy...lessons for all.
