https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22470.The_Origin_of_Satan
It was a great class--Pagels is both brilliant and warm, and while she has some fairly sophisticated thoughts she wants to share, she does so in a way that is both interesting and easy to grasp.This book is essentially a Cliff's Notes of that class.Which would be great, except that isn't at all what the title or cover synopsis promised.
I think I'd been expecting a more detailed description of the early Hebrews' thoughts on hell and angelology, and how that morphed into the very detailed imagery that modern Christians have of Satan, his history, and his motivations.
While most of the book focuses on the New Testament and a history of the early Christian church, it was the ancient history of Satan that I found most interesting, mainly because it concurred with a pet theory that I've had for a long time: Satan was never an enemy of God. Satan was God's quality control guy.
There were so many churches with so many different interpretations of Jesus' life and death, so many Gospels being written and so many opinions on the very nature of God's universe that it's surprising the whole thing managed to come together to be the world's largest religion.What's more, it shed some light on something that's always annoyed me: the persecution complex that so many Christians have.
I have to admit that I'm actually biased against her as a scholar because of her shoddy work on gnosticism -- she writes about it as though it were universally empowering for women and liberating for humans as sexual beings, then ignores the numerous misogynistic depictions of women, the assertions that women cannot enter the Kingdom of God unless they become men, and the widely varying approaches to sexuality within gnosticism (which ranged from orgies to absolute celibacy -- because, after all, "gnosticism" was a category invented at an academic conference in Italy in the 1960s to describe a bunch of totally unrelated sects & religions).
I will certainly read more of her books in the future.While others have done a fine job of explaining the theme of the book, (see Robert Mitchell's matter-of-fact review), I would like to go off on a bit of a tangent about what the book can tell us about humanity.
Pagels tells how first Jews, them Christians, developed the idea of Satan and the concept of demonization in order to create an identity for themselves distinct from the "others".
This basic idea of "us/them" is, of course, nothing new invented by the Jews and Christians in the first centuries CE.
(Perhaps it is time to re-read "I and Thou".)
In the intro she writes: "What interests me..are specifically social implications of the figure of Satan: how he is invoked to express human conflict and to characterize human enemies within our own religious traditions." Whereas fallen angels and demons are virtually absent in the Hebrew Bible, the devil as we think of him makes a strong showing in new Testament literature.
She makes a case that the early Christians saw themselves as victims and so needed to 'dehumanize' enemies by portraying themselves as part of a cosmic battle between light and darkness; (John's gospel) or God and the devil.
This is another of Elaine Pagels' popular books about early Christianity. The topic of this one is what Jungians refer to as "the Shadow" and how the figure of Satan, "the adversary", came to be converted from a member of the divine court to the archetypal opponent and opposite of God and how his spirit came to be projected and seen as animating all opponents, including fellow Christians, in the context of political and cultural conflicts.
She maps this Othering by using the occasional touchstone of who it is the writing in question says has been motivated by Satan...The real point is how different generations of Christians retold Christ's life and teachings through the lens of their own experiences, and how that influenced both the way the four gospels were each written and also which gospels ended up being canonical and which became heretical.I had some more problems while reading the book's conclusion.
I see the history of Western culture as a battle for power and survival, and not much more.On a side note, both Goodreads and Amazon list this book with the subtitle How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans and Heretics.
To fully understand a way of thinking, one must study what it abhors.The word "Satan" originally (in the book of Job) meant simply "adversary," and was only presented as a literary foil, (with the article "ha", i.e.
which is another story.In this book, Ms. Pagels follows the evolution of the word "satan" by its usage throughout the New Testament, as a way to illustrate the story of how Christianity transformed from being a Jewish, messianic cult into the mainstream of Roman culture.
The word Satan at first referred to the Romans, who persecuted early Christians, who were largely Jewish.
A well written and researched book by a National Book Award winning author, this work chronicles the evolution of the concept of obstruction through the changes given to it and to the ultimate use of the idea of Satan as a malevolent being.
Ultimately, what many use today is not what the original authors intended.Pagels may make some uncomfortable with her findings which lean on other theologians and scholars works as well, but the book is a fine addition to any library for those who still seek to find deeper understanding amidst the superficiality of popular dogma.
This is a wonderful read for anyone that is interested in the early history of Christianity.
This book has little to do with the Satan the being, and instead focuses on Christianity's evolving idea of good vs evil.
Elaine Pagels walks us through early Christian writings, with great care and respect.
She shows a very human story of what it was like for the early Christians.
Many of the ideas covered in this book echo struggles we have with today as we deal with clashes between societies both secular and theocratic; between Christianity, Islam, and Judaism; and even between cultures.
(I’ll be reading Pagels’ Adam, Eve and the Serpent next.) As she painstakingly tracks the use of the word “satan” in Scripture and contemporary sources, Pagels posits that the modern concept of Satan and the spiritual warfare inherent in the Gospels would not have developed as it did if it weren’t for Jewish internecine struggles under 1st century Roman occupation and during the war against Rome itself.
Gauge your expectations accordingly.Pagels lays out an overview of the mythic character "Satan" and his progression through Judaism and early Christianity from a servant of God (as he appears in Numbers) to a "devil's advocate" (as he appears in Job) to a fallen angel (as he appears in Milton) to the agent of cosmic warfare depicted in the gospels.
This shift in Satan's role becomes more dramatic as Christianity blossoms in the early second century, for the gospel writers, Paul, and early church father's--like Origen, Justin, and Tertullian--reframe the cosmic war as being against their particular enemies.Pagels is at her most engaging when she elaborates on Satan's role in the Gospels and giving this a historical context.
There is a book by Michael Gaddis (There Is No Crime For Those That Have Christ: Religious Violence in the Christian Roman Empire) that I really want but I can't afford it.
I am trying to zero in on the violence in early Christianity and keeping it in context in the Roman empire.Much of what I have read begins the demonizing in about the 4th/5th century with the councils.
It has a face in the dictionary.Pagels backs that up to the Jewish Wars in 66CE and admits that there is one source.
She takes the gospels and places them with the Jewish Wars as the back drop.
No, not ancient Israel; Pagels spends almost the entire book within the context of the New Testament—an appropriate focus, since in the Old Testament Satan is more of an Adversary under God’s employ.
By the time of the New Testament, though, Satan has morphed into the Prince of Darkness, the leader of all that is evil in a cosmic battle against good…a battle that found the Christians caught in the middle.
Satan is the natural evolution of an us-versus-them atmosphere in the arena of religion.Like Pagels, I find the war of 70 CE, when the Temple was destroyed and Jerusalem leveled, more than just a little important to understanding the development of Christianity.
Great religious analysis of the origins of anti-semitism, primarily in terms of blaming Christ's execution on the Jews, and tying their identity to the devil himself. Pagels' work on religious history is fantastic, and amazingly readable.
I kind of feel like all Elaine Pagels books tread essentially the same ground. But I keep reading them. Anyone know better books about the Gnostic Gospels? It's an interesting subject.
Re-read this. Quite good.
While the information was interesting enough, the writing was just awful.
First of all, the title is misleading, this is not a book about the origin of Satan, but more how early Christianity used the idea of good and evil to vilify their enemies.
Second of all, it was scattered all over the place, and just really hard to follow.
It felt like each chapter was just a wall of text with no introduction and no conclusion, the book could really have benefited from some headings to break things up.
Sadly it felt like such a chore to read, even though the subject was quite interesting.
Especially appreciated gaining a new approach at the Four Gospels' authors through a brief History of the Times in which they wrote, and the early, specific Christian churches they wrote for.Found her preview of a few select Nag Hammadi Texts quite fascinating too, so was learning a bit about various factions of the time, The Essenes come to mind.She does however, I found, spend quite little time actually talking about the 'Origin of Satan', quite a let-down considering it's in the Title of the Book.
By the time of Christ, Israel had been successively conquered by the Persian, Macedonian, and Roman empires; many people believed that the end days were near; and Israel was riven with internal political and religious conflict.
The author of this book, as a modern-day Ivy Leaguer, simply cannot take the stories of the Bible seriously; if she even hinted that she believed any of them, she probably would be run out of her home in Princeton, New Jersey.
Yet, Jews and Christians in the time of Christ believed these stories completely.
By failing to take ancient Christians and Jews (and their religion) seriously, the author gives them, and the story she seeks to tell, short shrift.
I got curious about how "Satan" evolved through history into his current form, so I picked up this book.
It simply doesn't discuss the topic of Satan that much.
On the other hand, I like Pagels' books a lot, and this book greatly enriched my understanding of the gospels and early Christianity.
I'm especially moved by the incredible courage of the early Christians, like Justin Martyr, Origen, etc.
Many of the early church fathers, like Justin Martyr and Irenaeus were converted not by proselytizers, but by watching the quiet dignity of Christians facing torture and death in the Roman arena.
This book is one that I recommend for one simple reason: As long as we choose to apply labels to our opponents, we can more easily justify disregarding them without considering our own fallibility and their right to an opposing point of view.
But there is always someone to fill the role of Satan's spawn.
Pharisees, Jews, Romans, other Christians, Mormons, Muslims, atheists, and communists have each been convenient foils for believers.
Is there a character called Satan.
But I feel he gets way to much credit for destruction and we let ourselves off too easily much of the time by saying (at least in our mind) as the comedian Flip Wilson made famous, "The Devil made me do it!!"
Pagels gives an overview about how the concept of Satan, demons and evil more generally was used by the Jewish and then the Christian community.
Rather than a detail of how the concept of Satan in particular evolved (though she does sketch this, just not in the hoped for detail) it's more an exploration of how Satan went from being one of God's employees, to associated with someone errant in the community, then being associated with Jews by Christians, and then Christians associating him with their own heretics.
She discusses the evolving Christian interaction with the Jewish and Gentile communities via the gospel treatments.
Pagels is a renowned Biblical scholar.
How then did Satan become such a prominent figure in the war of good versus evil in Christianity?
Pagels attempts to give an answer in this book.
A well written work which uses historical techniques and textual criticism to assess the origins of Satan, Pagels ably analyzes the topic in question.
However, I did find myself wondering what contributions other cultures may have made to this particular aspect of the belief system which was not addressed.
This work is appropriate for those who wish to learn more about the Christian belief from a scholarly and not a faith-based perspective.
Yes, there are common sources to the study of Satan but to narrow it down to some specific sources would be too presumptuous.
Satan is a Hebrew word and it means "the Opposer".
That is why when Peter wanted to get in the way of Jesus as far as the cross, Jesus rebuked his interference and said to him, Get behind me Satan.
Any mere opposition to the purposes of God means that I am Satan.
It is a reference to the forces that oppose the Divine Purpose.
So, it is not really a big discovery to say that one has found the "origin" of Satan as if this was the only reference to him.
I found the book lacked any serious biblical criticism.
It does not question basic historical reality.
That being said, Pagels does present a fair picture of the development of the idea of Satan (the devil) and other evil spirits from the religious texts that are available.
Even today you will find staunch fundamentalist who belief in this religious crap.
Instead of focusing on how actually to improved themselves or society, they focus on how Satan prevents the believer from obtaining his or hers salvation.
For a brief excursion into the realm of religious beliefs the book discusses it is a fair text.
Pagels' conclusion: "Concluding this book, I hope that this research may illuminate for others, as it has for me, the struggle within Christian tradition between the profoundly human view that 'otherness' is evil and the words of Jesus that reconcilliation is divine." That's the book in a nutshell. Pagels offers historical and literary evidence of this ongoing tension, starting with elements in Judaism and carrying through modern Christianity and Islam, with a heavy emphasis on the Christian era. Accessibly written, occasionally entertaining, and always fascinating.
Good and Evil comes down to 'We' versus 'They'. 'Me' versus 'You'.Too often, goodness exists in the 'Me' or 'We' while evil exists in the 'You' or 'They'.This technique has been, most certainly, used in the writing of history and, likewise, the writing of many religious texts. Whether 'They' be Jews, Romans, Catholics, Protestants, gays or democrats (my interpretation), this book explores how various Christian groups have used and continue to use this technique to create alliances and enemiesVery interesting.
This book explores the practice of "demonizing" an enemy. Pagels begins with the Jewish sects such as the Essens and then explores the Gospels with a look at Paul's letters. After that she goes into Christian and Pagan conflict. Finally she looks at the struggle between Orthodoxy and Heresy.
Having read a lot books.on how satanism and other related cultured destroy and at the same.time rejuvenates humanity, I think this is the most accurate take on this controversial subject. loved reading it
