https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58544.Snopes
Just finished The Hamlet portion of the trilogy today.
Aside from a portion of Eula's chapter that I found a bit unfathomable, I really enjoyed this book, with Faulkner's creative use of language and construction, the apparently highly fertile and seemingly without scruples Snopes clan, so many features.
She did not take in or comprehend the world around her, so the chapter devoted to her shares some of the same cognitive failings.I'm looking forward to returning to complete the trilogy after which I will complete my review.
UPDATE:I have finished all three books in the trilogy - The Hamlet, The Town, and The Mansion.
until this sphere, this wondrous yarn wrapped and twined around itself, has grown into this perfect tale that begins and ends on one brilliant, sturdy, thread.Faulkner is an extraordinary storyteller, and a master of stunning prose.
--------Below is my earlier review of the first novel, The Hamlet.I have just finished the first novel of this Snopes trilogy - The Hamlet.
This is Faulkner the Storyteller at his finest as he familiarizes us with Jefferson City and the folks of Yoknapatawpha County.
Faulkner tells the story of the rise of the Snopes family through three novels,"The Hamlet"; "The Town"; and "The Mansion." It is a stunning cycle of stories depicting the decay of the south as it is overtaken by new social values at odds with the past.At times the story is told by an apparent omniscient narrator.
While maintaining the major aspects of southern literature in the use of legend, myth, time and place, Faulkner's County is a microcosm for a larger universe of human values.These three novels provide enough material for a review much more in depth, and deserving of much critical study.
If brevity is the soul of wit, as the man says, then this book is as soulless as they come.
Sho', it has soul.
Just none in the direction of brevity.
Sho. If you ever have spent a spell on the front porch of your grandparents and listened to them spin a yarn - and if you happen to be graced with a Southern birth - then you know rightly the kind of dense prose that saturates each page of this here work.
Oh, but the insights into the Southern mind, no, the Mississippi mind, of the first half of the 20th century.
sho' now.
sho' now.
This entire saga is a thing to behold.
"Even when you get rid of one Snopes, there’s already another one behind you even before you can turn around." Indeed, the Snopes family is insidious and they'll burrow deep into your psyche long after you've turned the last page on this epic.
I struggled most of my younger days with Faulkner, knowing he was an accalimed, Nobel Laureate, but feeling like a tourist in a strange land.
Its a dark opinion and a dishartning road trip but as in all Faulkneria there is justice, there is humanity and there is a universality that begets "I know someone like that" and "this can happen today".Taking on this trilogy is no day at the beach, but with a heads up attitude and a willingness to be transported will result in a sense of having witnessed the decent and rebirth of the human spirit.
Wal now, iffen I were ta tell ya jest sommat about this ere book, jest enuff so's you'd be wantin te
This book made me want to move to Yoknapatwa county.
Because Yoknapatwa county is the intentionally silly made up name county that surrounds Oxford, Mississippi where William Faulkner lived.
It's a real place.
I don't know how many of the characters are based on real people, but it sure feels like they are.
You can actually research the history of the characters and the people who inspired them, because there are volumes and volumes written on Faulkner, Yoknapatwa county and those who peopled it.
It's an unbelievable place, Yoknapatwa county.
They make me want to go live there.
I appreciated reading this trilogy on my Kindle. I might not have finished the individual titles as readily had I picked them up separately. The books are paginated, but not individually. The series has 1066 pages, and, for instance, The Mansion starts on page 677. There are few typos, but very few, and when they do occur, the meaning is easily discerned.Reviews will be found under the individual title:The HamletThe Town The Mansion
What a wonderful 3 weeks I have just spent in Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha County.
I feel like a resident there who sees these characters walk the streets of Frenchman's Bend and Jefferson every day.
This is Faulkner's genius, I think; to put you "there" with dialogue and descriptions in real time.
Gavin Stevens and V.K. Ratliffe are 2 of my very favorite fictional characters in literature.
And Wallstreet Panic Snopes is the best name ever.
I just know that I loved residing in Faulknerland for a while, with the knowledge that I will meet some of these characters again.
I fully believe that Faulkner deserved the Nobel Prize simply for inventing the character of Flem Snopes. Not to mention Eck, Mink, I.O., Admiral Dewey, Montgomery Ward, and (last but not least) Wallstreet Panic Snopes. People who compare Cormac McCarthy to Faulkner have missed something very important: Faulkner wrote some of the funniest scenes in all of literature, even when the surrounding story was piercingly sad or grim.
Takes forever to read, but time well-spent. Now I'm inspired.
Reading Faulkner by starting with The Sound and the Fury, as my college literature professor forced me to do, is a big mistake. The Snopes trilogy is much more accessible, filled with dark humor and simple plots. I reread the Snopes Trilogy every three or four years just for the pure pleasure of the language. To fully enjoy Faulkner it helps to have been raised in a small town in the pre-modern South, but it isn't necessary.
I like this Faulkner better than the self-consciously literary one of 'Absalom, Absalom'. This is more of the back porch Bill, I guess, "just" a storyteller. My favorite scene is when V.K. Ratliff, the sewing-machine agent, a bit of an outsider to the Yoknapatawpha world and a cannier man than most, realizes that he, too, has been taken in by one of Flem Snopes's schemes.
I am not a person to reread too many books, but this book has a permanent place on my nightstand. Before bed, if I'm not in the mood to read anything that I'm currently reading, I grab this book, randomly flip it open and start reading. It's just that amazingly enjoyable!
Anyone who really wants to love faulkner must spend quality time with the snopes. Just reading these three alone will give you an amazingly comprehensive view of everything this man accomplished with his work.
I realized about halfway through "The Hamlet" - and this sense continued as I read the later works - that Faulkner, very subtly and cleverly, wrote in such a way as to make the reader feel just as frustrated and bewildered with the Snopes as the characters in the book are.
And in this sense the later works are brilliant in their way, for Faulkner uses verbage to enhance the reader's confusion, to make us feel that we have no idea what's going on.
But here, in his most epic set of novels, he reaches back and finds a special sort of loathing -- common throughout the world, and by no means unique to the US South -- of the old-money aristocrat for the grasping, small-minded nouveau riche.
Flem Snopes himself -- like the Julius Caesar of Shakespeare's telling -- is the eponymous character but not really the protagonist, and everything we know about him is related by the set of respectable small-town lawyers and salesmen who observe his family's rise in stupefied helplessness.
Flem, like some sort of satanic monk, is single-minded in his pursuit of money and power, but also impotent.
An interesting thing about the trilogy is that, more often than not, the characters/narrators are dealing with their own confusion about what is going on.
Ultimately, Flem Snopes is trying to exist outside of history and narrative, and thus it's difficult for the citizens of Jefferson and Frenchman's Bend to maintain their sense of community and identity when he's dominating all their local "plotlines" with confusion.
The trilogy itself is about storytelling and history, so Faulkner sort of interrogates the reader's need to master every detail as it unfolds; he'd rather put the reader in a more immediate sense of things, sort of like what William James called "the blooming, buzzing confusion" of present time.
بنا بر نوشته ی فالکنر، "یوکناپاتوفا" 2400 مایل مربع مساحت، و 15611 نفر جمعیت دارد، و مرکزش شهر "جفرسن" است.
"ماکوندو"ی گابریل گارسیا مارکز یکی از همین شهر- سرزمین هاست.
همین طور "بمبای" سلمان رشدی، و...
تقریبن تمامی نویسندگان بزرگ پس از فالکنر، او را به نوعی پیش کسوت خود می دانند، و بزرگانی چون خورخه لوئیس بورخس، گابریل گارسیا مارکز، ماریو بارگاس یوسا، سلمان رشدی، و ...
This book while fractured in its narrative and overall a bit scatterbrained, is full of rich surprises.
I found myself at the beginning of the book being somewhat impressed with Flem even though I had expected to see him as a villain.
Also there is an extremely strange section where Faulkner describes the world through the eyes of one of Flem's idiot cousins who is deeply in love with a cow.
Yes it sounds crazy I found this particular section to be some of the most beautiful prose I have ever read.
Overall a very strange book but one unlike I have ever read before.

It was a good but very long. It was about a family living in Yoknapatawpa's, Mississippi a small town.. It covered all the generations of the family called Snopes. Most of the details of this family were sad. It covered the period of the First World War to after the Second World War. The story had a few funny parts, but it also showed how people were treated in the South, especially the Negro race. It is a moving story, and is considered a Classic. If you can devote the time to read it, it is well worth reading.
It has been many years since I have picked up anything by Faulkner, but this edition has been beckoning me from my bookshelf for many years. Having just completed The Hamlet  portion of the Snopes Trilogy, I laughed aloud for a good part of it. What a great story teller! Apparently this edition includes many pages that were not included in previous editions for fear of offending readers. And unlike the critical mass of what I read, its characters will remain embedded in my mind forever.
Accessible Faulkner, that rolls along like Dickens at his best. Gavin Stevens has always been one of my favorite denizens of Yoknapatawpha County, and the question of the Snopeses has always been one of the most interesting Faulkner issues. The three novels here had some substantial sections edited out, probably because of their graphic sexual content, and those are now restored, so there were substantial sections of each novel that were new to me.
Man..what didn't I learn. This is a lesson in life, in the changes that took place in america in the 19th century. Lots of stories and asides, but I loved this book and it will definately need a second read through to realy appreciate it
See my review of The Hamlet here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/t...See my review of The Town here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/t...See my review of The Mansion here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/t...
just can't do it.......at times humerous but I get bogged down by the l.e.n.g.t.h.y descriptions and storytelling that I forget what's going on and who's talking. Maybe another time.
Current research question -- when Faulkner writes about the Snopeses in fancy language, is he only making fun of them? Or something else?
Finished The Hamlet on July 26, 2006. I finished The Town on February 6, 2007. Completed The Mansion on February 23, 2007.
