https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258634.Theory_of_Prose
For me, the really N.B. stuff comes in the first two chapters, where he's at his most general, and towards the end, where he's tossing off aphorisms and having a grand old time taking apart Sterne, Bely and Rozanov.
I'd love to pull a Shklovsky and quote a good two or three pages, but I'll just leave you with a few one-liners picked out from my woefully dog-eared copy: 'And so, held accountable for nothing, life fades into nothingness.
An artist always incites insurrections among things.''These songs [from a folkloric collection] speak of a bad-tempered, querulous husband, of death, and of worms.
He wrote, “If the complex life of many people takes place entirely on the level of the unconscious, then it’s as if this life had never been.” To bring life to the level of consciousness, Shklovsky believed that art is critically important in that “art makes a stone feel stony.” Art “enstranges” (his term) an object, making the familiar unfamiliar so that we can perceive and experience it.
“Art is a means of experiencing the process of creativity; the artifact itself is quite unimportant.” Art removes an object from the sphere of automatized perception.
Shkolvsky seems to be intent on leading us to see art as artifact by providing insights into its creation, these insights then leading us to view life differently and more fully.The prose that Shklovsky discusses is primarily narrative prose, fiction.
I don't agree with all of his points about the role of the artist and the creative process, but Shklovsky is the type of brilliant writer who makes a point from which you the reader can easily agree or disagree, and then let the discussion begin.His dissections of Cervantes, Doyle, and Sterne were boring, and were filled with unbelievably long excerpts, but his discussion of Blok, Bely, and Rozanov was engrossing, probably because he knew them personally, probably because he is personally involved in their work and their context in the history of Russian literature.
ART AS DEVICEIn poetry, where imagery is a given, the artist does not so much "think" in images as "recollect" them.
(143)The mystery novel allows us to interpolate into the work large chunks of everyday life, which, while serving the purpose of impeding the action, feel the pressure of the plot and are therefore perceived as a part of the artistic whole.
For this reason, art is pitiless or rather without pity, apart from those cases where the feeling of sympathy forms the material for the artistic structure.
(179-80)LITERATURE W/O A PLOT: ROZANOVA literary work is pure form.
YES YES YES. I've never loved anyone I disagree with so much so much.
Although many different prose devices are analysed throughout this book, one of them, that of "enstrangement" constitutes the red thread.
This neologism means in short that in order to fully experience a concept in literature, that concept has to be forcibly removed from its usual semantic field.
For the reader to actually notice a chair in prose, the chair has to be contrasted provockingly.
To experience that thing (chair, action) trully, as an adult, the way only a child can experience it.
The theory holds true as an artistic tool but unfortunately has catastrophic philosophical consequences (left unexplored in this book).
Selections
Erudite, discursive, fun.
Well written theoretical book. It makes you think more and it makes you want to read almost all the mentioned books.
Non iniziato
if you care at all about how fiction works, read this
Dedicated to Ceinwyin xDD
