https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296182.Brothers_in_Arms
The result: there was a really nice juicy reward for Miles Vorkosigan aka Admiral Naismith and the fleet had to escape into a remote peaceful place for much-needed repairs.
From the moment I began reading the series I wondered what happened to good old mother Earth.Here my question was finally answered as the remote peaceful place happened to be our own planet - its future version that is.
It seems my low opinion is echoed by at least one of my buddy readers as Maria mentioned 3 stars as well.You might have guessed the good parts: interesting plot, great characters, and equally great locations (hey, I think our planet is severely underrated in a lot of space opera books).
He even had some semi-successful attempt at getting himself laid, but that has not been a true problem as of late, has it?:-)The story introduced a new character who I am sure we will hear from again - to good for soap opera like machinations for the author not to use it again, despite many feeling like it is a cop out plot device.
Try it out, I think you might be pleasantly surprised:-)I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you need in the pages of a Good book!!!
So, the juicy gossip is - Miles finally gets laid. I won't confirm or deny - you 'll have to read it and find out for yourself :PAnother engaging (mis)adventure with Miles, that starts seemingly simple and grows complex enough to require his brilliant mind to solve it. Maybe less humorous than the previous book as trouble hits too close to home, but still a fun read.
Well, as always, it was entertaining and fun and I barely have something more to say about it that others haven't said before (I'm looking and pointing at you, Evgeny!). The lazy beast has taken over me again... :DP.S. Worst Cover Gallery is here though!     Hmmm, this is probably the most boring edition of Gallery.
Bujold you are also awesome for spinning another fun yarn that moves fast and still manages to think deep at times too, dropping things like The man who assumes everything is a lie is at least as mistaken as the one who assumes everything is true.
unfortunately Miles spends some time thinking that bullshit too but there's a few other people around to set him straight.
we have him splitting himself into two via a surprising tall tale that - spoilers beyond this point - turns out to be true, we have various characters finally addressing all of the issues that Miles faces in his two personas, and we have a great little hallucinogenic scene when he confusingly glimpses a very stressed-out version of himself across the way.
Of course, things go horribly awry and lots of intrigue & adventure follows.
He has his cousin Ivan to consider, as Ivan is also stationed on Earth.
Finally there’s the question of whether he will ever get a personal life and find someone to love him as Miles, regardless of which identity he’s currently living in.Plenty of adventure here for those who like such things, and lots of character development for me.
Another successful installment in the saga of Miles Vorkosigan.Book 261 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Project.
So I settled down to read the first book in an omnibus with warm fuzzy feelings, and was not disappointed.
I'd read a book further in the series, so I knew about Mark, but, of course, not the details about where he had come from.
Knowing more or less how it came out did not spoil the book for me - in fact, it made it more interesting.
That's often far more interesting than what twists are coming up next.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
However I gave it a bonus star because it introduces one of my favourite support characters in the series - Duv Galeni.
Following the events of Dagoola and another operation soon after it the Dendarii are in a desperate need of some down time and to repair the damaged equipment.
They even form a strange friendship after all the things they go through together.Another major secondary character (I know it's kind of an oxymoron) is introduced - Mark, Miles' clone brother.
He plays a major role in one of the following novels and is the catalyst for one of the biggest changes in Miles' life.
At this point in the Vorkosigan chronology Miles has been living his double life as Admiral Naismith for several years and his Dendarii mercenaries are a thriving concern.
The action picks up with the Dendarii arriving at Earth and Miles having to make his double identity work in ways that he hasn't in the past.
There are people trying to kill him, and it may not just be his usual crowd of enemies, and nor is it clear who they're trying to kill: Vorkosigan or Naismith.This is a fairly run-of-the-mill off-Barrayar Vorkosigan story that would be familiar to anyone whose read The Vor Game or Cetaganda.
**edit 11/26/13My advice regarding the Vorkosigan Saga boils down to this:  go read them. All of them.  I suggest starting with The Warrior's Apprentice--and no, this isn't one of my usual careless suggestions to jump midway into a series; it's recommended by Bujold herself. And now, onwards to Brothers in Arms!In Miles Vorkosigan's most recent mission as his alter-ego Admiral Miles Naismith of the Dendarii Free Mercenaries, he was sent undercover to rescue one important man from a Cetagandan PO
And, of course, that's when things on Earth start getting, as Miles would say, a little out of hand.
While Miles is trying to escort high-faluting London socialites as part of his Barrayaran identity, he is forced to make a daring--and unfortunately visible--rescue as Admiral Naismith.
D’you think you trip over twitchy dwarfs on every street corner?" Not only is his cover identity at risk, but, with the Cetagandans simultaneously meeting socially with with Lt. Vorkosigan of the Barrayaran Embassy and actively out for the blood of the all-too-similar Admiral Naismith, Miles is doubly in danger.
And since this is Miles Vorkosigan, that's when things start getting complicated.
Summary: Flippin' awesome!I've read the Vorkosigan Saga all out of order - this is book 5, but it was the 13th I'd read. /curtailed review - the puppy has just been sick - the fun never ends in this house!After this I read: Resplendant
Brothers in Arms: Miles gets seriously schizophrenic...or is it Admiral Naismith?Now that I've thoroughly immersed in the Miles Vorkosigan Saga, like other fans I can begin to appreciate all the little character details that Bujold has carefully woven into each of the volumes, and as each of the seemingly small events of previous stories have larger repercussions later on, and previously minor characters take on greater importance and depth.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Miles Vorkosigan is on my list of the top 10 best SF characters ever. This is another great novel, though IMHO not the best.
Another solid entry in the Vorkosigan Saga. This book made me quite a fan of Dove Galeni, so I hope he makes a reappearance later in the series.
This series just keeps on getting better!For those who are unaware of this series: Miles Vorkosigan is a short officer who usually is looked down upon because of his appearance, but what people don't know is that he also accidentally became a mercenary captain and goes along with his fleet to war torn planets to save the day.
He is hilarious and his quest in life is to be appreciated for the brilliant mind that he knows he is.
The series is definitely gaining momentum by this novel, changing tracks only a little from the previous stories.
It introduces a short and surly wrinkle that will grow into one interesting character in his own right.
This novel is more than an introduction for him, though.
It's funny, clever, and does a deft job at worldbuilding Earth with barely touching it.
Miles, like the reader (me), wanted to sightsee, but he was kept so busy we missed almost everything!
And it should have been a vacation!This was one of my easiest remembered rereads.
Such a great series!
After reading her tightly paced novellas (~100 pages each) in  Borders of Infinity this one seemed to bog down whenever Bujold retold events from prior books or described the historic conflict between planets Komarr and Barrayar.Glad I stuck with it!
Miles, reflecting his progressive Betan upbringing with his admirable mother Cordelia (see Shards of Honour) immediately acknowledges his clone as his brother, and tells him he has a family and a name: Lord Mark Pierre Vorkosigan.
Miles Vorkosigan and his alter ego, Admiral Naismith, are closely intertwined in this story--sometimes it's as confusing for the reader as it is for Miles, but Bujold certainly handles it deftly.
Then she adds to the confusion!
It never occurred to me that Miles's comment to the reporter about there being a clone of him would turn out to be true, and a clone planned & paid for by Komarrans--never saw that coming!Interesting tidbits that stood out for me: Miles's realization that giving Elli such a beautiful face was not necessarily the gift he initially thought it was, but Elli is a stronger and more capable officer because of it.
A bit too many identity switches, and some over-stretching of the limits of believability, even for Bujold.

A+, would read again
I'm up to Memory now and probably won't be able to hold on much longer before reading even further, so best post a couple of reviews before they all become muddled in my mind.It's not long after the rescue mission told in the wonderful Borders of Infinity, and Miles and the Dendarii mercenaries decide to make a pit stop on good old Earth.
Too many people who love these books seem to think that no one's reading the series for the first time, so spoilers are just fine.
Read and enjoy.Here's my favorite quote from this book: “I had to discover and teach myself all kinds of tricks to get people to respond to the inside of me, and not the outside.” Quinn speaking, of course.
speak this truthfully?As a funny aside: I try to notice each time the author uses some of her favorite words in each book: saturnine, desultorily, accountant.
I find this entertaining!I listened on audible and the narrator (who seems to read all the Vorkosigan books) is awesome.
For the second time, we listened to this book together on a road trip.
This series, in fact, is awesome for long road trip entertainment!
Having finished my tour of my favorite Vorkosigan books, I proceed now to my less-favorite ones. Mind, this simply means that instead of being "Oh My GOD, this is AMAZING", they are simply quite good.I will observe that I am reading them in reverse order, probably because a more mature Miles, a more mature setting, and, to be honest, a more experienced author make the latter books truly grand. Still, this is a fun little book, and we get to meet Mark for the first time.
My first Vorkosigan read. Why did I wait so long to try this series? A fun space opera romp even if it did take place on Earth. Started here because it's the one they had on disk at the library but I went back and got the first one. So I'm ready to suck down the whole series. Anyone who's read this will know I just love Miles. What a great character. I listened to this and the narrator wasn't the best I've ever heard but he did okay.
The two things in particular I liked about this story, though, were 1) we finally understand what the fuck happened on Komarr; and 2) we finally see Earth, albeit very little of it.
Really, really like it.)Mark could have been, and very much was, a foil for so much of the story until the last fourth or so, when Bujold takes the opportunity she's set up this whole time to cement her argument about the personhood of, well, everyone, I guess.
Brothers in Arms is marked as the 8th work in Bujold's Vorkosigan Saga and most definitely is not the place to start.
I definitely recommend the series as a whole.
Miles Vorkosigan, the primary character in most of the books is a literary heart throb, and this series is about as good as space opera gets.
I like that Miles isn't the usual handsome or brawny hero you find in this genre.
In this novel that role and the one as a Barrayar officer are clashing that goes to the heart of how Miles defines himself.
Now, at the legendary home planet, Earth, Miles expects to be able to collect six months' pay (plus expenses) for his fleet, and do some tourism.Unfortunately, there seems to have been a breakdown in communication regarding the position of his 'real' identity as Lord Miles Vorkosigan and his covert work for the Barrayaran Empire.
No pay seems to be forthcoming, and he finds himself confined to the embassy.
He sneaks out and ends up having to concoct a ridiculous cover story about the clone who looks just like him.Unfortunately for Miles, his wild story doesn't end up being nearly as far-fetched as he thought it was...
Miles Vorkosigan continues to get in trouble and the series continues to be fun to read.
There is nothing extraordinary about the plot, but the characters are just so good that even an average plot is engaging.
Seriously if not for previous character development within the series this would just be an average read.
The introduction of the clone played well with Mile's developing worldview of family and individual value.
Living in a culture that abhors disabilities, Miles has taken a unique (within his society) view of individuals that are different.
One of the things I love about this series is watching Miles grow.
Like he used to give Elena such a hard time about being a woman who wanted honour and glory, and now that asshole at the embassy tells him to "get all these women out of here" and he just wants to pull the guy's throat out.
And he doesn't blame Elli for not wanting Barrayar.
He's sad about it, but he also realizes that everything he loves about her is everything Barrayar would smother.
It's fantastic.
Also, I just want to pet Mark forever.
Poor wee lamb.
While as entertaining as many other Vorkosigan books, this one left me with the impression of being too light a reading experience. I was having a good enough time that I read the last 150 pages on a single, lazy Sunday, but I predict that I'm going to be hard-pressed to retell the plot six months from now.Could I have given half stars, I'd rate this as 3.5 stars, but I don't think it deserves four stars.
