https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35820633-the-fates-divide
There is a lot more political intrigue, maneuvering, and manipulation along with some big plot twist.The book is written in the first person for Cyra, and Cisi (Akos' sister), and in the third person for Akos himself.
This I think was a good choice as in the past Veronica Roth has said she write better in the voice of her female characters.Since the last book the brutal war on the planet Thuvhe, between the Thuvhe and the warrior nomadic Shotet has been notices and taken center stage in the interplanetary politics.
I'm in the minority side who actually really enjoy reading the first book Carve the Mark.Cyra and Akos better not die or else I’m going to be pissed 😤😠.
As I was one of the few who actually liked the first book Carve the Mark I am really excited for this continuation of the story!Edit 16th April - ThoughtsI enjoyed The Fates Divide more than the first one.
I didn't have a problem with it in this case - it all played into the theme of "the fates", the invisible hand moving the pieces across the chess board.And no side was painted evil - Thuve and Shotet may be enemies, but both sides have their good and bad people.
This story kept me hooked all the way through!And I absolutely loved this book, up until the actual ending.
There is no way I'm going to be able to wait until 2018 for this.EDIT : 1/6/2018 "He'd die for her. She'd kill for him."If you aren't intrigued yet, I don't even know what to tell you. Plus, I absolutely love the cover. It's going to beautifully on my shelf beside the first one:)
I actually really loved the completion of this duology!
I remember being hesitant about reading the first book when it first came out because of the mixed reviews but I usually don’t let that prevent me from checking out a book, and I actually did enjoy the first.
There were so good twists and yeah someone does die in the first 20 pages, but the story just keeps you interested.
Anyways, this is a good finale to the duology.
I am completely satisfied with this duology!
Enjoyed it very much!My quick and simple overall: everyone plays out for their fates but the fate isn’t set in stone with the way it works out.
It's gonna be awesome guys!!!!!!
I was lucky enough to read The Fates Divide early.
Not only is it filled with the kind of wonder and inventiveness that makes sci-fi a joy to read, it's a thoughtful, clever exploration of strength through its characters--particularly its female characters--that asks us to think differently about how we are strong and how we can be strong in the face of unimaginable odds .
and to never, ever underestimate ourselves.
On top of that, the worldbuilding is excellent, it's action-packed, tension-filled, romantic af, smart and beautifully written.
Absolute must-reads.
Loved them both.
😍 http://www.epicreads.com/blog/carve-t...Loved CTM.
Am so ready for The Fates Divide.
Am I the only one who didn't enjoy the book?Why is her writing is so hard for me to understand?I really tried to get along with the story line but unfortunately it didn't happen.
While the first novel was very much a world-building novel that focused on just one or two specific locations, The Fates Divide is somehow more of an introspective character piece that spans across different planets.
The world-building in Carve the Mark was done through the characters of Cyra, Akos, and company, but the world-building in The Fates Divide is what complicates and develops the characters’ interpersonal relationships.
The political intrigue, as well as the constant threat of pain and suffering, set a pretty quick pace in Carve the Mark.
This is an immensely power-packed ending to Roth's duology about an inter-spatial drama.Synopsis: In the second book of the Carve the Mark duology, globally bestselling Divergent author Veronica Roth reveals how Cyra and Akos fulfil their fates.The Fates Divide is a richly imagined tale of hope and resilience told in four stunning perspectives.The lives of Cyra Noavek and Akos Kereseth are ruled by their fates, spoken by the oracles at their births.
Why do I read a book right after it comes out knowing I'm going to love it and then have to wait an entire year for the sequel??
Roth decided to kill off the villain in the opening chapters leaving me wondering what all the development was for.
Why spend all this time building a great villain just to have him killed uneventfully in the opening pages?
Cyra and Akos were wonderful and Roth fucking ruined them in this sequel.
I just don’t fucking understand what she was going for here.
(Maybe as angry as Kelly was when she got to Allegiant?) I just felt like she dropped the ball big time here.
Not so bad conclusion to this duology (at least I think is a 2-book series) , but it lacked more structure and plot development. Character development was the greatest thing this series did and it’s minor characters but the plot suffered and it felt like the main plot for the second book (lazmet “Cyra’s dad ) was barely used or given any depth , therefore the whole book suffered. The three stars rating comes from the main characters development alone . Looking forward for whatever else this author comes up with in the future.
The fates divide 3.75⭐The first book was more political which is why i wasnt a fan but this book (after having the world and political details already formed) was alot better. I love the friendships and how each character has their own personality and attitude that shines through so clearly without having to directly say it but how they say it. I like that they needed to ration and fight through the days it was realistic for a dystopian. If you didnt really like carve the mark pick this up anywa
The fates divide 3.75⭐️The first book was more political which is why i wasnt a fan but this book (after having the world and political details already formed) was alot better.
I love the friendships and how each character has their own personality and attitude that shines through so clearly without having to directly say it but how they say it.
I like that they needed to ration and fight through the days it was realistic for a dystopian.
If you didnt really like carve the mark pick this up anyway because it was much better and I really enjoyed it!
Asteroids, stars, planets, the current stream; space debris, ships, fragmented moons, undiscovered worlds; this was a place of endless possibility and unfathomable freedom.
It was so good!The inclusion of Eijeh and Cisi's perspectives really added a lot to the story and the world.
I got my more planets wish and got some awesome visuals along the way (Ogra is my dream aesthetic)The themes were great in this, and the pacing was also great.
Everything was great.I was hesitant about the Lazmet death retcon, but it was done really well and added a lot to the story.
I don’t even know anymore.[Synopsis removed to make this a spoiler-free review for Carve The Mark]It’s like that person you thought was nice all along but ended up betraying you in the end.
But that’s what I tell myself constantly as I was reading the first few pages, that it will get better and it’s just building up, and the typical "this chapter will be the one I just know it" which would seemingly forever and always be proven wrong.
I mean I know it’s the first quarter of the book and things are still building up, but can someone or something at least stun me or make me smile?
There is no way I can wait an entire year for this!
3,5* ten konec to celkem zachránil a bavil mě. Postavy a prostředí jsou super, stejně jako v jedničce, ale hrozně dlooooouho trvá než se to rozjede... Bohužel. Čáry života považuju za zdařilejší než jejich pokračování, ALE nebyla to žádná tragédie, spíš lehké zklamání. Napsané je to poutavě, čtivě a Veronica Roth si umí hrát se zdánlivě nepodstatnými detaily.
Their fates (as proclaimed by the oracles) seem to dictate too much of their path in life, and they’re both so stubbornly independent that they go on with life with their heads held high even as their hearts are breaking.This may sound like a decent storyline, but I was slowly plodding along until Roth dealt me a surprise.
But I’m glad I pushed through if only to discover the plot twist and to learn the ultimate fates of Akos and Cyra.Read all of our reviews here.Check out our full book recaps here.
At the end of Carve the Mark, our main duo found themselves struggling to find out where they fit after the massive events that took place.
And also struggling with their feelings for one another and what that means for their fates.
Meanwhile, Akos and Cyra are confronted with their actual fates and have to decide what they will become.I really wished that I liked this more.
Actually, I was never really felt attached to any of the characters.
Then when it seemed like the war was going to happen...everything was over in a few pages.
Potentially unpopular opinion: I don't like this cover. I don't like that the title is now orange and a different font from CTM. I think the silver would pop more on that dark background, and it really truly bothers me when fonts and text placement/spacing are different in a series.
Okay, the first book sucks real bad but this sounds so cool and OMG, that cover!
3.5 ster. Op sommige momenten kon het verhaal mij niet bekoren, terwijl sommige stukken juist fantastisch waren. Recensie lees je hier: https://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie...
Però devo dire che anche i personaggi secondari sono costruiti molto bene e li ho apprezzati tutti (tranne un paio in realtà hahahahha) Non do un rating più alto perchè il libro per quanto mi abbia intrattenuto e per quanto l'abbia trovato piacevole e divertente, non mi ha lasciato niente di che.
Si uniscono azione, viaggi interplanetari e scoperta di nuovi mondi con storie d'amore (tra cui una a tema LGBT+ che in realtà speravo venisse raccontata di più) e storie di famiglia e di amicizia.
Infatti sottolineo il fatto che c'è un forte discorso riguardo la famiglia, l'identità personale e come le due cose siano legate.
This is a strong 3.5 stars. I just can’t justify bumping it to a 4. It was a bit too slow in my opinion, and I don’t feel like there was enough development to this world for my tastes. A bit too much going on and none of it detailed much. I think a few less tensions and those in here more detailed would have brought this book to a higher rating.
Though I gave them the same rating, I preferred this book to the first one. I was expecting more from the climax it wasn't as intense as I expected, but still was good.I really liked all of the characters, I ship Akos & Cyra so much.Akos makes really bad life decisions for the majority of this novel TBH.Pacing was good.Ending was beautiful and didn't murder me the way I expected it to.But really Akos, get it together!
2018!!!! It's so unfair to wait that long...
La verdad es que la lectura es una que va cogiendo ritmo a medida que avanza, que empieza algo pausada pero que cada vez va más deprisa, un libro que se lee sin problemas hasta el final, uno que albergará todo lo que queda, la resolución a lo que hemos visto hasta ese momento, el paso final de cada uno de los planes y alianzas que se han puesto en marcha para tener unos capítulos finales plagados de tensión, muerte, sangre, miedo y tristeza por tener que decir adiós a esta historia.Algo que me gustó mucho del primer libro fue la ambientación que creó la autora, algo que se comió buena parte del comienzo de Las Marcas de la Muerte pero que yo disfruté como una enana conociendo esas poblaciones, sus historias y creencias.
“The Fates Divide” is the second novel in the “Carve the Mark” series, by author Veronica Roth  (of Divergent fame).
However, Lazmet is the strongest opponent either have ever faced, and when a secret is revealed that has both Cyra and Akos doubting their fates and each other, both are faced with the challenge of their lives (and the lives of the entire population of two planets).
It was as if Ms. Roth had a dictionary of bizarre names that stopped after the letter “A”)  Then of course, the new part-narrator of this novel is “Cisi”  (Akos’ sister)  which, when combined with Cyra, our other part-narrator, just leads to a whole pile of confusion.
This was a fantastic end to the Carve the Mark duology.
She's also totally gay for Isae and I loved it.
Eijeh is really fucking messed up after what happened in Carve the Mark and I don't know how to feel about his perspective--it was weird to read.
They are girlfriend girls and I loved it so much.
I still like Akos, but he isn't Cyra.
So many things happened in this installment and we get the war on three fronts (Akos, Cyra and Cisi).
Plus there was an insanely huge plot twist and I'm still not over it!!
