https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33515572-the-whisperer-in-darkness
Written in 1930, a few months after the discovery of Pluto, at the rim of the Solar System — a planet Lovecraft calls Yuggoth!
— The Whisperer in Darkness, once more, is a meditation on ghosts, on the resurfacing of repressed origins.
The tale ends up with the chilling discovery of an outer space fungi presence, akin to the Cthulhu creature, possibly hostile to human life.This is, for the most part, an epistolary novel, written as a series of letters by Henry Akeley (the “whisperer” of the title).
The idea of the brain in a vat is quite original for its time (although reused countless times since).
This story, first published in Weird Tales (August 1931) shares many qualities with the earlier “The Colour Out of Space”: it is lengthy (in “Whisperer”’s case, extraordinarily lengthy, some 26000 words!), features detailed descriptions of the countryside which contribute to the eerie atmosphere, and claims a place in two genres, the literature of horror and the world of science fiction too.
Lovecraft’s use of a New Hampshire river valley is extraordinarily effective here, equal in power to “Colour”’s depiction of the blighted Massachusetts farm:

Güzel ama diğer öykülerinin yanında biraz sönük kalmış. Ha birde Profesör Alberth Wilmarth karakteri bu kafayla nasıl profesör olmuş anlayamadım :)
4 stars. Better than most of Lovecraft's stories, but still not his best. Review to come.
His other works vary from very short to quite short to a bit longer than short, but this one could not hold the tension and it seemed as if the roads through the grim, desolate places would never cease.It holds the sense of other, the wonderful sci-fi horror fantasy hybrid that makes Lovecraftian an actual thing, but the long, drawn out descriptions didn't have quite the same oomph that I've come to expect.There is eldritch esotericism abound, and wonderful imagination and a great sense of wickedness of the human heart (cults are the best plot points) but it seems quite the chore to get through some parts of it.
Wilmarth who teaches at Miskatonic University in Arkham, tells a story about horrible events that took place near Townshend, Vermont.Newspapers report that after a flood, people notice strange creatures floating in the river.
He, of course, doesn't believe that but his published opinion makes Henry Wentworth Akeley, a man from a place where the creatures have been seen, write to him.
Since the man is not a crazy person (even if his letters are a bit crazy), they become friends.Most of The Whisperer in the Darkness is told through their correspondence.
Interesting concept, boring execution. Creative use of the discovery of Pluto though. I enjoyed the attempt to keep it all grounded in science. The narrator as skeptic is fun.
My first Lovecraft story, Not bad :)
The protagonist, Wilmarth corresponds by letter with a secondary character, Henry Akeley who is exploring the mystery while separated from the aliens by the walls of his house.
When Wilmarth runs, you are left with an imposed sense of unknown to horrify: ‘the things in the chair.’“Would to heaven I had quietly left the place before allowing that light to rest again on the vacant chair.” Neither the Whisperer in Darkness, nor Lovecraft’s brand of weird mystery would have been possible to convey to the extent he did without his personal racism.
H.G. Wells work was better, though his is definitely more my genre and not quite weird fiction like Poe and Lovecraft.
Die, wie ich finde, bisher am meisten abgedrehte Kurzgeschichte von Lovecraft. Hier werden fast alle Mythen und Schöpfungen Lovecrafts vereint bzw. erwähnt und gleichzeitig findet man Anspielungen auf Werke von bspw. Robert Howard und Robert W. Chambers, die ebenfalls zum Cthulhu-Mythos gezählt werden.Definitiv eine meiner liebsten Lovecraft-Geschichten!Dieses Video von "Literatur ist alles" fasst Lovecrafts Mythologie übrigens sehr gut zusammen:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7era6...
I am beginning to think Lovecraft's entire reputation is built on maybe a half dozen of his works. If so, this is one of those founding stones.
The sense of forboding, the creepy descriptions of stillness and terror, the remote stillness of the wilds of Vermont.
Instead, it's the something from beyond:Here, indeed, in objective form before my own eyes, and surely made not many hours ago, were at least three marks which stood out blasphemously among the surprising plethora of blurred footprints leading to and from the Akeley farmhouse.
They were the hellish tracks of the living fungi from Yuggoth.And Yuggoth, apparently, is the ninth planet from the sun, the recently discovered Pluto, which is causing all of this trouble in quaint Vermont.
Footprints in the dirt, dead dogs, whispers in the darkness, pickled brains in jars - Howie's got a smorgasbord of good stuff here.
3,5  El que susurra en la oscuridad Uno de los relatos tardíos de Lovecraft en los que expone, nuevamente y con magestría, su particular cosmogonía. La historia es narrada por Albert N. Wilmarth , profesor en la Universidad de Miskatonic , en Arkham. Tras unas grandes inundaciones en Vermont, llegan noticias de la presencia de criaturas extrañas flotando en el río durante el primer día. Su original escepticismo sufrirá un cambio a raíz de su entrada en contacto con Akeley. Lovecraft consigue, d
El que susurra en la oscuridad
Uno de los relatos tardíos de Lovecraft en los que expone, nuevamente y con magestría, su particular cosmogonía.
La historia es narrada por Albert N.
Wilmarth , profesor en la Universidad de Miskatonic , en Arkham.
Tras unas grandes inundaciones en Vermont, llegan noticias de la presencia de criaturas extrañas flotando en el río durante el primer día.
Su original escepticismo sufrirá un cambio a raíz de su entrada en contacto con Akeley.
Lovecraft consigue, desde el principio, captar tu atención con los registros fonográficos de la raza extraterrestre de Yuggoth.
An original story by Lovecraft that significantly deviates from his usual lore. We have aliens and their androids! Unfortunately it is lengthy and boring at times. But as I already commented on other Lovecraft stories, he manages to create alternative local histories where real characters are incorporated to change a fantasy into some folklore that feels plausible (here with e.g., Charles Fort, Albert Einstein, the recent discovery of Pluto).
The Whisperer in Darkness checks a lot of boxes on my favorite things about Lovecraft.
There is an element of insidious human vs human relationship that I haven’t read in any Lovecraft story yet.One thing that was really frustrating was the narrator’s reasons for imperiling his life.
I was frustrated in the way of watching a character in a horror movie check out a noise in a haunted basement.
This is a solid 3.5 in my book and a must read for sci-for and horror fans.
Horror Short StoryFlying creatures that are made out of unknown material torment a man in his mountain cabin.Spoiler/DiscussionsThis is an amazing piece of Lovecraft lore.
The creatures being discussed that they are alien creatures that have intergalactic travel are just a fun thing.
Capturing minds in technology which is revealed late in the story is a concept that is still discussed today.
This is a moment where Lovecraft was ahead of his time.
The ending scare makes this such an amazing Lovecraft story.
From start to finish this story had me captivated.
Enjoyable read, though the protagonists are unutterably unaware in several instances.
(view spoiler)[Typewritten letter to conceal hand-writing, complete and utter change of tone, inviting up for a visit when before asking to stay away, specifically asking for all evidence and correspondence to be brought...
(hide spoiler)]I may have enjoyed it more due to having read Jordan L.
Hawk's Threshold before this one, so I was happy to recognize the various things she'd borrowed (and she added one more thing that made it even more creeptastic: (view spoiler)[After removing the brain, the creatures could put in one of their own.
(hide spoiler)]).
These include aliens and advanced technology.This tale is about the discoveries of Albert Wilmarth, an instructor at Miskatonic University in Arkham, Massachusetts.
Akeley’s research into these crab-like monsters reveals that they are in fact aliens that have had hidden colonies on Earth for thousands of years, and hail from a dark planet on the edge of the solar system.
It is fairly original compared to the themes of other Lovecraft stories, and presents some of the core entities within the mythos in an indirect way.
From the first description of the aliens (the Mi-Go) to the application of their other-worldly technology, Lovecraft guides the reader through the experiences of Wilmarth with horrifying grace.
Він намагається переконати Вілмарта, що у місцевих легендах значно більше істини, ніж тому здається, і у Ейклі є докази, які це підтверджують.Вілмарта зацікавлюють слова Ейклі, і вони починають активно листуватися.
Спочатку Ейклі не хоче, щоб Вілмарт вплутувався у цю неоголошену війну, але потім змінює свою думку на діаметрально протилежну.
І тепер вони хочуть, щоб Вілмарт теж дізнався те, що стало відомо Ейклі, тож професор з побоюванням їде у Вермонт.
Вони досягли високої майстерності в хірургії і вміють видаляти мозок так, щоб він міг підтримувати відносно самостійне життя.
H.P. took a turn to science fiction with The Whisperer in the Darkness, in which a species of parasitic fungi named Mi-go hailing from "Yuggoth" (Pluto) start terrorizing the Vermont countryside with threats of intergalactic colonialism.Most of the story is told through the correspondence between Professor Wilmarth, one of Lovecraft's stock erudites from Miskatonic University, and a lonely Vermont hermit named Akeley, whose house becomes "the focus of transcosmic horror amidst the lonely green hills and curse-muttering brooks of a spectral rustic land." What a set up.
As Albert becomes more involved in the controversy, he gets a letter from a Henry Wentworth Akeley, who claims to have proof of the existence of the alien race.In this novel, H.P. Lovecraft captures the narrator's curiosity and turns it into an element of danger.
The reader can already conclude that Mr. Akeley was probably kidnapped, and yet Albert's curiosity must be satisifed.When he goes to visit Akeley's house, he finds that all farm animals are missing, and that Akeley has been ill and has remained immobile in a chair in the corner.
Horror in quiet darkness This is the first H P Lovecraft story that gave me chills up and down my spine.
I’ve previously been impressed with Dagon, the rats in the walls, the colour our of space and the Dunwich horror, but this is by far my new favorite lovecraft story.
The premise is still outdated in many ways but the majesty comes from the tension he builds throughout the story.
The pacing is some of the best I’ve ever read in a horror story.
This piece could show the growth of lovecraft in a way.
I very long short story, or novella, or whatever it is.
I haven't read this story in probably 30 years, so I picked it up again last night.
Lovecraft's imagination is remarkable.
Aliens taking out people's brains, fungi-like monsters living on a planet beyond Pluto, ancient Indian legends and dark doings in rural Vermont, alternate dimensions populated by unnameable monsters....just awesome.I read a lot of Lovecraft in high school.
His imagination is surpassed by none.
It was fun to reconnect with this story.
This probably shouldn't be five stars, but Lovecraft has been in residence in my imagination since I was 13 years old, so he gets special status.
Aunque en comparación con otros que he leído, quedó muy simple.
la situación final era algo obvia (por no decir que lo era completamente).
Aún así me gustó la manera en que está narrado y el cómo se plasma lo del planeta Plutón (que con la situación de nuestro presente me da en qué pensar xD), además del tema de la cirugía, el cuál me pareció en extremo interesante y espeluznante por igual...
por lo que me habría gustado que lo explotara más.Aunque no es de mis favoritos, he de decir que este relato me gustó mucho.
Definitely, it's not one of my favorites.
This tale is a typical pulp magazine sci-fi short story with some of the traditional sci-fi tropes from the 1930's, which makes it somehow different from other Lovecraftian classics such as The Call of Cthulhu, Mountain of Madness, etc...
Too much technology and not that cosmic terror feel...It seems this one lacks from depicting these eldritch horrors as abstract entities, a pivotal mark of the Lovecraftian cosmic horror.
But it's ok, it has everything else from the author and I must point out the buzzing and creepy voice...
That was really creepy...
Innsmouth’un Üzerindeki Gölge ilk okuduğum kitabıydı. Karanlıkta Fısıldayan ona nazaran daha az sürükleyici ama gerçek bir fanatiklik uyandıran bir eser olmuş. Necronomicon ve birçok buna benzer ilgi çekici ve merak uyandıran ögeleri kullanması belki bunu oluşturan temel sebep. Ex nihilo nihil fit! Yuggoth oluşumu kozmik anlamda korku edebiyatına yeni soluk katmış döneme göre gerçekten bir adım öndeymiş Lovecraft. Bu kitapta Dante ve Poe için atıfta bulunmuş ‘…herhangi bir adamı Dante’ye ya da Poe’ye çevirecektir.’ Kalemi için ilham aldığı isimleri bizlerden gizlememiş. Bunun dışında kurgu hikâyelerin yanı sıra felsefi eserlerde bırakmış. Liste oldukça uzadı! 📖🖋İyi okumalar! 📚
What a strange weird story. The beginning plays out almost like a History Channel special. You can just imagine some big haired narrator looking through old newspapers and piecing together strange seemingly unrelated facts. "Could it be...extraterrestrials?" All that then leads to a creepy unnerving finale where all is not what it seems and you're left with only a disturbing memory, an impression of something far more insidious than it appeared on the surface.
This story epitomizes what I love and hate about Lovecraft:Love - slow, methodical building of dread and unease; and, the partial revelations of cosmic horror that are all the more disturbing because of what they imply rather than divulge. Hate - Lovecraft's laborious, academic prose; and, anticlimactic (and somewhat predictable) endings.
This one was kind of meh. Long with lots of exposition. Again, the ending was cool but it was work to get there. An interesting tidbit was the relevance of the discovery of Pluto which is no longer classified as a planet (dwarf planet instead) due to the vast range of similarly-sized bodies in that region. As such, it's a ripe field for cosmic horrors waiting at the edge of our solar system.
