https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75020.The_Romanov_Prophecy
Any ideas on why books aren't rated for language/content? Anyway, the story line was interesting enough but I stopped reading the book because of the language. Note to authors; "F-bombs" really aren't necessary to add emphasis to a situation, it just creates characters who lack the capacity to express themselves with any degree of intellegence
Bueno, por fin he acabado la lectura, que se me ha hecho un poco pesada, si es verdad que al final se hace más amena pero aún así se me ha hecho un libro demasiado largo. Supongo que esperaba algo más al tratarse del misterio de los Romanov. En mi opinión, la historia está ligada demasiado fácil, el propio protagonista guía a los enemigos hasta ellos, una y otra vez, y tiene una fe ciega en otros seres humanos aunque intenten asesinarlo varias veces.En resumen, no ha merecido el tiempo dedicado ni las expectativas creadas.
Profecía + Romanov = Ahí que voy yo de cabeza Sin embargo, no ha llenado todas mis expectativas. Tiene un ritmo muy bueno, nada más empezar tenemos un tiroteo y una persecución. Y eso también elevó mis expectativas, menudo comienzo!Sin embargo acabó resultando que la profecía era lo más patético que se puede inventar. Esperaba que hiciera alusión a los personajes por alguna carácteristica que resultara clave y que los definiera y estas características acabaron siendo el color de piel y el nombr
Sin embargo, no ha llenado todas mis expectativas.
Tiene un ritmo muy bueno, nada más empezar tenemos un tiroteo y una persecución.
Y eso también elevó mis expectativas, menudo comienzo!Sin embargo acabó resultando que la profecía era lo más patético que se puede inventar.
También esperaba que hubiera que desentrañarla de alguna manera pero tampoco, lo más importante es una referencia a unos animales que acabaron siendo eso, animales, literalmente.Me esperaba más después de las buenas críticas pero aunque reconozco que tiene un buen ritmo que evita caer en el aburrimiento no pasa de ahí.
A destacar el final que me ha parecido muy realista.
I enjoyed reading friends on goodreads reviews. I am also a Russian history nut and have traveled to St Petersburg and the Peter and Paul Fortress. This was such a fast paced intriging book that I read it in a couple of days. I think the mystery surrounding the missing children's bodys will never be solved. So, we have our wonderful imaginations to keep us interested.By the way, I found the Amber room not as exciting. I have seen the real Amber room and and the privilege to speak with a Russian about its tragic history.
I choose this book to read because it was about the Romanovs.
There was brief time in my life where I was interested in the last czar's family so the title caught my eye.
Even though I've done my own research into the Romanovs, I have no idea how historically accurate the story was.
And it's been some time since I read it anyway.
If the story is good enough, I can forgive some historical inaccuracies.
Of course there are some blatant ones given that a lot of historians believe none of the family survived, but damn it makes a good story to ignore that fact.
I continue my illogical and inexplicable fascination with Russian history with this historical novel based on The Romanov dynasty.
In the last decade, I have read dozens of books, novels and historical texts about Russia and the Soviet Union -- with a bizarre emphasis on the early secretive Soviet Space program.
This is one of Steve Berry's early novels.
Like his other books, I have read, this is a novel based on some good and fascinating history --The Romanovs and the execution of the entire royal family.
I think I have read almost all of Steve Berry's novels now, and I must say he is consistently good.
This book is a stand alone novel by Steve Berry.
What grabbed my attention towards this book was the title.
Having always entertained a fascination for Russian history and knowing Berry's skill on good research, I was very much interested in reading it.
As the case with all Berry books, this too is a combination of history and fiction.
I enjoyed reading history, although I feel he could have avoided the gruesome details on the massacre of the Imperial family.
I also enjoyed the story based on that history, even though it is a little far fetched.
Overall, a good and enjoyable read.
And for the record, I don’t care much about historical accuracy (or inaccuracy, in Brown’s case,) I just like alternate history and the way these authors spin their stories.I’ve read only 2 other books by Berry so far: The Amber Room and The Venetian Betrayal.
Miles just seems to serve as a focal point for the plot to move forward, and that’s pretty much it.
I like looking at the pictures and reading about the history of each egg and finding out where they are now.In this book, Berry used the Lilies of the Valley egg as a plot point.
Small people caught up in something bigger than them, always a man and a woman and some pathetic attempt at sexual tension, people out to kill them to keep the secret, old pretentious men who give unrealistic monologues full of information that they have spent their entire lives doing nothing but researching, following ridiculous clues around the world, and always ending up successful with dues ex machina moments in which the characters learn all the historical information is contrary to the facts that most people believe and cause all the pieces of the puzzle to neatly fall into place.
This was a fantastical what-if story that really kept the pages turning quickly. I love that Steve Berry incorporates a lot of factual history and traditions into his storylines. He is a quality writer with a keen imagination. I still feel sorry for the Tsar and his family every time I read an account about thier last days in the House of Special Purpose.
The book was a recap of the demise of the Russian Imperial family during the Russian revolution of communism. I learned more than I knew about the event and the author put his own unique twist to the event. The book dragged in a few places and I did not connect with the characters very well.
Instead, the Romanovs are coldly and methodically executed.Moscow: Present Day. Atlanta lawyer Miles Lord, fluent in Russian and well versed in the country’s history, is thrilled to be in Moscow on the eve of such a momentous event.
The new tsar will be chosen from the distant relatives of Nicholas II by a specially appointed commission, and Miles’ job is to perform a background check on the Tsarist candidate favored by a powerful group of Western businessmen.
The prophecy’s implications are earth-shattering–not only for the future of the tsar and mother Russia, but also for Miles himself.I enjoyed this book, it was interesting the mix of history and adventure.
I have become a permanent fan of Steve Berry; I have read his 2 of his other works (3rd Secret, Templar Legacy) and can't wait to read The Amber Room.This book centers on the fate of the heir to the Romanov throne, Czar of Russia.
Just as well done as Steve Berry's other offerings.If you like historical thrillers, even if you know nothing about Russia and the Romanovs, READ THIS BOOK!
I have become a huge Steve Berry fan after reading all of his Cotton Malone books.
At first I wasn’t to sure weather or not I would like them simply because Cotton Malone wasn’t the main character.
I thought the main character of Miles Lord was very interesting I almost wish he was in another book as I grew very found of him and his love interest Alaika.
The plot line was, for the most part predictable, but there were a few twists (Berry took a completely different direction by the book's end than I thought he was going to take, which I appreciated) .
However, the history of the Romanovs and Berry's unique take on the prophecies of Rasputin were fascinating and made the book well-worth the read (although the fact that the missing Romanovs were found in 2007 ruined the fantastic "what if" questions raised as we now know the answers; wish I had read it prior to this discovery).
This was the first Steve Berry novel I've read and I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The plot is fast moving and contains a significant amount of Russian history and culture considering this is a thriller.
For those needing a complex plot to analyze, this probably isn't the right book.
But the book moves along quickly through a DaVinci Code like search for clues to an ancient mystery.
The author also weaves a plausible and compelling scenario with very high stakes for the actors.I would recommend this to friends as a fun read and for thriller writers as a strong example of an engaging read.
uh knjiga je dobra ali cisto sumnjam da bi se dopala prosjecnom rusu, povratak carske obitelji na vlast u rusiji, rusenje lenjinovog mauzoleja, mislim da ne bi islo.... malo me zasmetalo predstavljanje rusije kao zatucane i zaostale i prikazivanje amerike kao superiornije bar sto godina naprednije ali OK masta pisca ali isplati se procitati :)
A bit naive but still lot of fun. 😀
:( Things I liked about the book are the culture and history of Russian that he added in there, the clever idea of Rasputin actually being a good guy and coming up with the prophecy, the mystery whether or not there was a direct descendant of Nicholas II, and also, how it showed that the United States isn’t the only one that has racial problems and how to deal with it.
And knowing that this book is about what happened to the Romanovs got me really interested.Over the years, Imperial Russia has intrigued the entire Nation about the ruthless execution of the royal family, about the sole survivor; it’s really mind boggling that the masterful Steve Berry unravels for his readers.Miles Lord, an Afro-American lawyer assigned to do a background check on one of the close relatives of former Tsar Nicholas II before claiming the throne.
And the way Steve Berry wrote this make me felt as if I was there with the Romanovs the entire time.
This was my first Steve Berry book I have read.
It was a Christmas gift from my wife, and she knew I liked books such as this.
Historical fiction is one of my favorite genres.
This book was obviously about the Romanov family who was executed.
This book delves into the notion that not all of the Romanovs were killed.
It is intriguing, yet probably not likely.
The Russian history was interesting and the plot kept me reading.
This is another good read, and those that I have recommended it to enjoyed it as well.
Este thriller me llamó la atención por todo lo referente a la historia de Nicolás II, el último zar de Rusia y sobre todo, a la leyenda que se generó en la figura de su hija Anastasia y su hijo, Alexis. El autor maneja bastante bien el suspense, mezclado con todo ese halo de misterio. Aunque el final no es muy sorpresivo, es una lectura entretenida y más si te gusta la historia alrededor de la figura de Anastasia. Es bastante recomendable.
Set in post-communist Russia as the citizens rally to re-enstate the Romanoff dynasty to rule them as their Tsar, the book opens with the main character Miles Lord witnessing the murder of his lunch partner.
Unlike some authors of suspense who make you guess who the villian of the book is, while keeping you glued to the pages looking for clues, this book's author Steve Berry tells you up front who is behind the vicious deeds and creates a story that is filled with historical facts and nerve racking tension as the main character avoids being tracked down and killed.
What if Russia decided to reestablish the monarchy, a commission selecting a Romanov descendant to pick up where Tsar Nicholas II left off almost a century ago?
What ensues is a race against corrupt Russians to find the true heir, a direct descendant of Nicholas II.The first half of the book was bogged down with Lord being chased around Russia.
The conclusion delivers a satisfying finale and while the premise might not be entirely believable, anyone who enjoys Russian history would get a kick out of this face-paced conspiracy-laden twist on the fate of the Romanovs.
These kinds of books are a nice change of pace from what I usually read, so that's probably why I enjoy the few I do read.
I have long been fascinated with the Romanov family and the tragedy of their eventual demise, and recently have been listening to /reading a nonfiction book on the family & Russia itself at that time.
I got so interested in it, that I went through my book shelves and pulled a few fictional stories about them to read while I was "in the mood." This was my first choice.
After realizing that poorly written historical conspiracy thrillers were my guilty pleasure (thanks Dan Brown!) I picked up this novel about the end of the Romanov dynasty and the mystery surrounding the two youngest children whose bodies were not found along with the others in 1979.
To massacre children in that way is atrocious and it makes me sad just to think of what their last moments must have been like.
Also, Berry clearly put a lot of research into this and uses real accounts from soldiers and excerpts from letters between the Tsar and Tsarina.Cons: This author makes Dan Brown look like Shakespeare.
This was 4th book by the author I read and enjoyed it very much because it focuses on the Romanov legacy.
His recurring character in his other books is not in this one, which I thought strange, and I thought it to be a good touch that the main character is a black man, fluent in Russian and well-educated.
You don't find many books where African-Americans are thrust in the role of hero.It's full of suspense, action, and leaves you wondering if the Romanov generation is alive and well.
With the fall of communism the Russian people want the monarchy back.
I have always been fascinated by the execution of the Romanovs and was not disappointed in Steve Berry's Romanov Prophecy. He did a great job weaving the historical facts and the prophecy of Rasputin with a bit of his imagination. I found this book to be very captivating as the twists and turns kept me riveted to the story until the very end. The characters were well-developed and the writing was excellent and well researched. I would highly recommend this book to those who love Russian history and I look forward to reading more from this author.4.5 stars
This isn’t a book. It’s a descriptive american movie script. A + for being generic, and what I mean by generic is following some sort of guideline to write a novel, as if he was taking a test and not writing a book. Which is a shame because the Romanovs are actually fascinating.
Steve Berry has written a book about a Russia that has requested the return of a czar - a czar who is the closest relative, by blood, to Nicholas II.
The main character, Miles Lord, is an African American lawyer working on the commission that will select the new ruler.
Mr. Berry occasionally flashes back to the last days of the Romanov family.Above is a rough frame of the novel but I have to say that this is one-edge-of-your-seat, exciting, don't-relax-for-a-moment sort of book.
The drama starts on page one and you had better not need to get up the next morning because you will not be able to turn off the light and go to sleep.
