https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16113.A_Dance_to_the_Music_of_Time
Why read some inferior Proust wannabe when you can get the real thing?The above notwithstanding, if you are the kind of person who likes long novels, you will probably find Dance an unforgettable trip, irrespective of whether or not you have read Proust.
If only!) A lot of Powell's characters are from the English upper classes, but they do mostly end up working for a living, getting married, having children, and doing other things readers will find familiar.
For instance, Nick said of his Uncle Giles: “He was also habitually unwilling to believe that altered circumstances might affect any matter upon which he had already made up his mind.” Someone else was said to have “transmitted one of those skull-like smiles of conventional friendliness to be generally associated with conviviality of a political sort.” In fact, much of the collection that I’ve read so far (the first 3 of 12 volumes comprising what they call the First Movement) seem like character profiles and dialog tied together not by plot but by dinner parties, art shows, and dances.
Spring is a season when nature awakes and everything comes into blossom…Youth is a spring of human l
Po ovom serijalu knjiga, snimljena je i sjajna britanska serija... Davno se prikazivala i kod nas...
The earliest version had a personal note in it, something like the reconstruction of it as I now recall, which occasioned Comment 1 below:About ten years ago I was in the process of reorganizing the books in my library.
I think I figured they were just more novels I'd acquired at some point and never read, like many others.After joining Goodreads a few years later, I happened to see Manny's review of Powell's masterpiece.
This struck me as such a beautiful comment on the way people go through life.A bit later, I got curious about how I had got the books.
You are welcome to vote for me if you sincerely think I've been boring enough.-----------------------------------------------Oh dear, I can't resist.So, one of the things that happens in A Dance to the Music of Time is that the narrator mentions a lot of completely obscure books, whether or not they were so at the time of reading, I don't know.
The movie could have done with a good looking man, but considering it was Spanish...So, my LBD, had a full day of it, posh restaurants, a film, and then tea at the Windsor while we discussed how great Australia is and what the fuck do those Indians know anyway?
5 Strobing Foxtrot Stars on a Huge Dancefloor Go to this Roman-FleuveI took much delight in this fascinating and woefully underappreciated roman-fleuve (a long sequence of novels together making up a single work) particularly when reflecting upon it as a dance to "the music of time" in which "partners disappear only to reappear once again, once more giving pattern to the spectacle." A Dance to the Music of Time, composed of four movements of three novels each, takes place between 1921 through 1975 in England as the narrator Nicholas Jenkins progresses from his schooldays at Eton all the way through the free-love late 1960s into the early 1970s.
I was reminded of Brideshead Revisited as Nick the narrator visits the home of a friend with a rich mother (admittedly, that's based on superficialities).
Swann while reading of Nick's childhood memories of Mr. Deacon: the child had heard his parents discuss the man and he thus becomes a "mysterious figure" to the narrator.I realize I'm not catching many of Powell's literary and painterly allusions.I hope to have more of substance to say as I read on (nine more books to go!), especially, as in the last of this set, I was greatly enjoying the meta-fictional musings of Nick/Powell on the writing of characters: Nick wondering how he'd write of an English person (such as his friend Mark Members) versus characters who aren't British (such as the family Nick's observing in the Ritz), which of course Powell has written.
I'm also very interested in how many more people Nick will compare to his Uncle Giles.
A Question of Upbringing (A Dance to the Music of Time, #1)  -- read January 28, 20162.
A Buyer's Market (A Dance to the Music of Time #2)  -- read February 1, 20163.
The Acceptance World (A Dance to the Music of Time, #3)  -- read February 9 , 2016I read these three novels starting in January 2016 and ending February 9., 2016.
I've hyperlinked to my original reviews of each book.
Book 1's review is a bit light and doesn't follow the pattern I picked up in book 2, and subsequently followed in each of the other 11 books.
A "A Dance to the Music of Time" may well be one of the great literary works about the everyday life of the upper class in England and those attempting to break into it or rise within its social ranks.
Powell sees life as a dance during which we move over time in a series of movements.
I became attuned to Powell's transitions among the many scenes he depicts and the vast number of characters who served as dance partners in the music of the narrative.
So this is definitely a great literary read and even if in my view Powell may fall short of Proust, so what?
У них рейтинги и так ок за десяточки лет сформировались.Или есть, например, Стиг Ларссон.
Нежно любя и Пруста, и Стига Ларссона, я честно бросила это повествование в начале второй книги: оно медленное, ни к чему не ведет и ни о ком не рассказывает, в нем нет деталей про чашечки и ебанутых фермеров, ни про одного из героев толком ничего не ясно (сколько их там вообще) -- в общем, в рамках программы по уважению собственного времени я честно собираюсь рекомендовать эту книгу никому, а на вернувшийся кредит купить последний роман тетралогии Ферранте.
Widmerpool plays his usual role as comedy relief by getting a bowl of sugar dumped on his head, the entire incident described in exquisite physical and emotional detail, and at the same time, his reaction is another clue (we've had a couple of previous ones) that he's really not someone you should be quick to laugh at.This isn't the only intersection of Jenkins and Widmerpool's professional and romantic lives; the book moves through some encounters with artists, socialists, and other people one might best describe as "social facilitators" whose precise role in life in never made explicit but whom everyone who is anyone seems to know.I should note here that Anthony Powell is actually quite funny, even though he never writes straight-up humor.
If I may proffer one preliminary observation, I will say that Perry seems to take Proust's solipsism as a deficiency with which he favorably contrasts Powell's keen observation of other people.
Even the most nicely wrought profiles or fine-tuned social observations might seem minor by comparison....Also, one of the more endearing things I've read in a while: Perry was rereading Powell on a long flight and laughing so hysterically the whole time other passengers had to turn and ask what was going on (https://www.theguardian.com/books/200...).
A Dance to the Music of Time is a twelve-novel cycle examining English society from the 1920s to the 1960s through the lives of its predominantly upper middle class characters, which is presented as the memoirs of the narrator, Nick Jenkins.
However, readers who favour intelligent prose, a large cast of well-developed characters* (many of them based on real people) and interesting social history over plot will be amply rewarded.
I was prompted to listen to the audiobook version of this novel, which is superbly narrated by Simon Vance, after learning that the Tory Anthony Powell was a close friend of the socialist George Orwell, as well as a fellow Etonian.
I don't expect the series to be very deep, nor especially emotional, but a very pleasant read being the times and lives of just the sort that appeals to me.A Buyer's Market tells us the narrator is Nicholas "Nick" Jenkins.
I think they are on the 1001 list because of the insight into this wealthier class of people in the years between the wars and a way of life that probably no longer exists.The Acceptance World is the final installment in this first 3-volume book of the series.
Mas se eu quiser tentar gostar desse livro, vou ter que esquecer que Proust existe e tentar me concentrar e pensar na obra por si só, já que Em Busca do Tempo Perdido sofre do mesmo mal dos grandes amores, uma vez experimentado tudo que lhe é subsequente parece ínfimo, pálido e sem gosto, mas nem por isso deixaremos de experimentar outros tipos de amores, talvez não tão intensos ou definitivos, mas ainda dignos de um pousar.Ainda, assim, vai ser meio difícil não lembrar de Proust toda vez que pegar o livro na mão, já que a esperteza editorial colocou Paul Rhys na capa desta edição, o mesmo Rhys que vivera o amante de Marcel naquele filme com Alan Bates.
A Dance to the Music of Time is a delicious book: I am loving every minute of reading it.
Originally comprising 12 separate novels published from 1951 to 1975 it now comes in four volumes and I’ve only read the first volume so far, but I am hooked.
It begins when Jenkins, Templer, Stringham and Widmerpool are in the same house at Eton, and it moves on as they muddle their desultory way through and out of university and then into careers of one sort or another.
They muddle into and out of relationships too: love, business, artistic and so on.
I guess I find it closer to life as it was lived in the 20th century and certainly to the idea of our lives as a dance that characters keep returning to, in different changing guises, mirroring society's evolution as well as their personal characters.In Widmerpool Powell has created an awesomely representative villain whose growing evil is perfectly understandable given his starting point and what happens around him.
Though memorably someone once said: 'we are all someone's Widmerpool': someone thinks us evil in some way.
On the other hand, it was incredibly slow moving (though listening to large parts of it dramatized the book more than reading it).
Nicholas Jenkins, the protagonist of the book, is very passive, more an observer than a truly well-rounded character.
I don't think that I've ever encountered such sweeping and ridiculous generalizations about the so-called "fair sex" in a novel, and I've read a lot of 18th and 19th-century lit.
Jenkins's (& Powell's, presumably) views of women are quite misogynstic.
I'm glad I read the first movement, having heard about the book many years ago and having been curious about it.
A Buyer's Market (Volume 2): "A Buyer's Market" is the second book in Anthony Powell's twelve novel sequence "A Dance To The Music of Time" and it picks up the narrative in 1928, via a flashback to Paris where narrator Nick Jenkins introduces us to an artist called Mr Deacon.Nick is now in his early twenties and whilst more grown up, still uncertain of his place in the world.
The characters are now taking jobs, marrying, having affairs, divorcing, becoming drunks, becoming major players in society, becoming social revolutionaries -- in part, they're growing older and finally interacting with the world around them.I'm quick to write this one off as the best novel of the three collected in this first volume, but I'm not sure if it's because it actually is the best of the three or because I've become familiar with all of the main characters and have become interested in their lives and interactions.Starting 7/1/08, I'm giving myself one year to make it through Powell's cycle.We'll see how it goes...
12 novellas, oh, about 3000 pages, covering 50 years of London life with the who's who, socialites, writers, b-list celebrities, politicos, and historical figures all thrown in, most of whom wouldbe unknown to any contemporary Londoner let alone the rest of us, written by a snooty erudite, somehow it all works.If you're in it for the long haul, I suggest an 'Invitation to the Dance' by Hillary Spurling, a guide and glossary to all that is about to appear before you.The first 3 books contained in Spring introduce Nick Jenkins/Powell, the narrator, and his compatriots at college in the 1920s.
Supremely civilized, enormous in design, an unforgettable picture of a way of life (and a class) that were disappearing even when Powell was one of the "bright young people" who were so visible in the 1920s in London, the books that make up Dance are also very funny.I first read DANCE when I was in my early thirties, and the story (in the first three books) of the friendship of three boys thrown together in school and the gradual dissolution of those friendships as the world calls the young men in different directions, meant a great deal to me at the time.
On a recent holiday to London we decided not to be too touristy and spent our time walking the streets and soaking up the feel of the city. We actually stayed around the corner from Shepherd's Market in Mayfair - exactly where Nick Jenkins resided. So, reading this was not only wonderful because of the great characters and comic relief, the sense of place for me was magical.
I'm looking forward to future volumes. Review to follow.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It has been described as the English equivalent of Marcel Proust’s Remembrance of Things Past and its books have been called quintessentially English novels.Nicholas Jenkins attends an upper-class boarding school (based on Powell’s own experience at Eton), where he befriends two older students, Charles Stringham and Peter Templer.
Stringham is finished with school and is going to spend the spring in Kenya with his father, but before he leaves he takes Jenkins with him to his mother’s and step-father’s home for the break.The third chapter is after Jenkins finishes school and spends time in France, studying the language and learning more about life before he goes up to university.
A book of this length will inevitably divide opinion but I’m firmly with those who consider it a subtle, under-stated masterpiece worthy of comparison with The Great Gatsby and Brideshead Revisited.
It goes into much greater detail than either of those two books on the social dynamics of debutant balls, country house parties and London private members’ clubs and as such may try the patience of those with a limited appetite for that kind of thing.
But, like Fitzgerald and Waugh, Powell is really writing about the loss of innocence and the fragility of human relationships.
For my money he achieves an impact just as powerful as those two greats.
Powell takes you back to a time and place, Britain and France in the 1920s, that no longer exists.
He does this with a prose style and a structure that, through episodes in the lives of four boys on the verge of adulthood, slowly builds a story that seems very true to life.
You gradually learn about the relationships through the eys of the narrator, Jenkins, and by the time he says goodbye to his Uncle Giles at the end of the first volume, A Question of Upbringing, you have become engaged with these individuals, their loves and dreams for the future.
I count the Dance to the Music of Time as one of the most important literary achievements of the 20th century.
I've read the entire sequence of novels twice, and found the second reading a richer experiences than the first, such is the density and complexity of Powell's amazing achievement.
Powell has created the richest and most detailed fictional narrative in the English language, in my opinion.
I will read the series a third time in a few years, because there is much hidden in the story, I feel, that can only be reached after a basic familiarity with the text has been achieved.
