https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/750481.Man_and_Technics
Spengler traces the history of technics in three phases:Stage 1The HandThe genesis of man is the hand (see Animal Farm), which Spengler believes occurred as a sudden mutation.
It emancipated the intellect from the hand.Man then separated into commanders and obeyers; individual lives mattered little at this time according to Spengler; what mattered was the whole, the tribe, the sea voyage or building project.
Nordic Man became spiritually enslaved to the machine.
For non-whites, Spengler claims, technology is merely a weapon to be used against the Faustians who invented it (and he wrote this before mass immigration!).
The results went on display a while back in the Oxford Handbook of Nietzsche, or as I like to call it, Honey I Shrunk Zarathustra!
(He only said “God,” kids, he said nothing about Allah!) The man himself would not have been surprised by the turn things have taken.
But we may now use that word only with a smile, when the dessert comes out.Harder to render campus-friendly is Nietzsche’s more straightforward disciple Oswald Spengler (1880–1936), who was buried with a copy of Zarathustra.
They were too left-wing for his liking.
1931: Spengler mette a punto la sua visione della relazione sostanziale tra uomo e tecnica, il destino della nostra folle impresa di asservimento della natura e le organizzazioni sociali che questo impeto ha generato. Fondamentale.
Here's the thing: Spengler is an extremely interesting figure in the realm of speculative philosophy.
He is, however, a horrible historian and an even worse scientist.
These things get in the way of his precient views on the future.
It's amazing to watch him make an ass of himself insofar as Darwin is concerned, and then make up a bunch of stuff about so-called historical trends and ignore all manner of actual, contemporary scholarship on the matter at hand, and then watch him turn around and start making sense.
My god I love this crazy ass German bastard.
And, on the grounds of a shared general pessimism about this species known as Homo sapiens, I do like him.
He begins with the hunter-gatherer stage, the implied apogee of this tribe because Spengler sees our species simply in episodic decline from those halcyon days before antibiotics, wherein the terrible yet inevitable decision is made to use tools by way of the hand — the appendage, never mind the big brain that requires all those calories be ingested, that truly sets humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom.
If the desire to know what that curtain is made of, and even to peer behind it, is not Faustian, then I don't know what would be; and I can very well imagine that if Faustian man were to go extinct, that particular question would go with him." - Lars Holger Holm (Man and Technics by Oswald Spengler, Pg.20)"In and of itself the destiny of this small planet that pursues its course somewhere in infinite space for a short time among the swarms of the 'eternal' stars is of no importance.
I have become enamored with Spengler and his book "The Decline of the West." Though I take some issues with parts of his thesis and argumentation, it is surely one of the greatest works of art and philosophy of the 20th century.This book examines what Spengler takes to be the impacts of technology on the human race, particularly "Faustian" (or Western) civilization; in some ways it reminds me of Ted Kaczynski, but backed instead by his ideas concerning the morphology of history.
In this he makes a number of predictions: most of which turned out to be more or less correct!At the end he concludes:"Only dreamers believe that there is a way out.
Mooi boek. Te lezen als de inleiding tot het grotere werk van Oswald Spengler zijnde der Untergang des Abendlandes. Een must-read voor elke Spengler-fan en iedereen die geïnteresseerd is in Spengleriaanse filosofie.
Oswald's prediction of there being fewer and fewer leaders (of the mind or of the policy) because of the daunting nature of technology -- they'd kill themselves, abscond to non-technological civilizations or become shut-ins rather than commit themselves to a technology-dependent lifestyle, ultimately hostile to our Predatory heritage -- seems unfounded and reads more like a projection of Spengler's own disgust towards and fear of the hi-tech; little did he know in 60 years teenagers would be crossing borders and dissolving national consciousness, programming apps, creating space ships and perfecting the ultimate virtual sex bot simulators.Against the backdrop of the rise of Nazism Spengler's attitude becomes more understandable, but this still doesn't excuse the book being constructed in an ass-backwards fashion -- he exported the apocalyptic pessimism engrained in his earlier work (or so I'm assuming) and shaped his poorly analyzed and reductionist views on technology around it.
But then he mocks Darwin and dismisses the entire concept of evolution because he thinks something as powerful as the hand had to come to man in one powerful thunderclap, rather than a slow, gradual process.
While not racist by 1930 Germany standards, Spengler saw clear competition between the west and other cultures of the world.
One of his fears was that the west was sealing her doom by sharing technology with the rest of the world, a threat that the right has declared imminent my entire life.
Very informative in providing a window into the German mind of that era. Incidentally, I would love to meet this fellow or one of his admirers in a dark alley, beat the daylights out of them, and then explain that I didn’t just commit a crime, but in fact carried out my “will-to-power”
Final clarification and the proper ending for "The Decline of the West". Maybe even better book than the former. More clear and vibrant approach.
weirdly prophetic... and slightly appaling (considering all the racism) at the same time. speculative philosophy at its most speculative.
A brief summation into the life-reflections of a deeply poetic, profound and prophetic man.
I think Spengler's pessimism obscures the truth here, particularly because it comes at the issue from an overtly political angle.
I do agree with his assessment that modern technics was almost entirely a Faustian invention, despite the inclination of liberal apologists to point towards the inventions of the Chinese or the mathematics of the Arabs.
Where once the flow of capital was the result of familial or individual agency, it has now become its own artifice, managed over by middling hands.
The managerial class thought seems to take reserve with this, sensing a decay of agency.
Edellinen tuntuu uudelleenlämmitetyltä Länsimaiden perikadolta, mutta on sellaisenakin herkkua.
Spengler kiitää ajatuksesta toiseen vaivautumatta todistelemaan väitteitään tai pohtimaan mahdollisia kritiikkejä, mutta se ei häiritse, kunhan ymmärtää, että todisteita ja itsekritiikkiä kaipaa vain sivilisaatioihminen.
Ihmisen tekniikan erikoisuus ilmenee sen luovuutena ja yksilöllisyytenä, sillä kaikkien muiden eläinten tekniikka on niille lajityypillistä.
Sarsilan essee taas tuntuu kovin repaleiselta, kuin muistiinpanoista kasaan kursitulta.
Silti se tarjoaa oivia joskin sirpaleisia kurkistuksia Spenglerin metodiin (tai sen puutteeseen) ja filosofiaan.
Rohkeiden kannattaa sukeltaa suoraan Länsimaiden perikatoon, sillä siinä on Spenglerin ydinmehu, ja kaikki tässä tuntuu vain sen tähteiltä, jotka tosin nekin riittävät viemään nälän.
I gotta stop reading Spengler, he's making me get too depressive haha."We are born into this time and must bravely follow the path to the destined end.
The honorable end is the one thing that can not be taken from a man."-Oswald Spengler"Be robbers and ravagers as soon as you ca not be rulers and owners, you men of knowledge!
The time will soon past when you could be content to live concealed int he woods like timid deer"-Friedrich Nietzsche
Oswald Spengler is zo een van die namen die men kent, maar nooit gelezen heeft.
"De Mens en de Techniek" is een soort van korte samenvatting van zijn "Untergang des Abendlandes", maar toch ook meer dan dat...
Ik heb dit boekje gelezen om te kijken of Spengler iets voor mij was?
Ik heb het vooral gelezen als een soort van cultuurkritiek en meer speciaal over de relatie mens en techniek.
Het boekje gaat in tegen een soort van naïef vooruitgangsgeloof dat de wetenschap alle problemen die we voortdurend creëren wel zal kunnen oplossen.
Het boekje dateert uit 1931, maar 2018 laat ons vooral zien hoe gerechtvaardigd dit pessimisme wel is.
A real work of genius by a man who understand the direction of the industrial/technological revolution. He essentially predicts 80 years in advance our current immigration and outsourced labor crisis. We are in our death throes as a civilization. Im looking forward to his "Decline of the West."
‘Inspired’ me to live the life of a predator.
"The secret of realizing the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment of existence is: to live dangerously! Build your cities on the slopes of Vesuvius! Send your ships out into uncharted seas! Live in conflict with your equals and with yourselves! Be robbers and ravagers as soon as you ca not be rulers and owners, you men of knowledge! The time will soon past when you could be content to live concealed in the woods like timid deer!"- Friedrich Nietzsche
This is a rather exhilarating essay on the unique human ability for creating new methods of surviving, living and thriving. His view here is really incompatible with modern techno-society. I will want to read this again.
This is not Spengler's most famous work. The Decline of the West is. His major work was written before the Great War and this work Man and technics in the early 1930's. It's still amazingly current and full of food for thoughts.
Would like to see a new edition. Misplaced my mimeographed copy.
A great work of speculative philosophy which must be reexamined in today's society.
This book was written pretty well and the second book I looked at today that played the man animal distinction along with the heideggerian tool analysis.
