https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31093.Lila
When reading Zen I found myself instantaneously agreeing with and seeing the truth of much of what Pirsig said, and the things which I didn't understand in the book I assumed I would in time, after more thought and reading (which I have), because I thoroughly believed in the rest of the ideas i was reading.
Pirsig's thoughts and ideas fascinate, but maybe the story he wrapped them in this time just had no appeal for me.
In ZEN it’s on a motorcycle and in Lila it‘s on a small boat which makes its way down the Hudson River and through New York City to the ocean.
Now, it’s true that for ordinary purposes, the subject-object division works well, and it is at the heart of ordinary living and the bedrock on which the scientific method and western civilization rests.
Persig/Phaedrus has no problem with this; it’s just that he wants something more inclusive so that we can incorporate “quality” into our lives.
sein Alter Ego-Phaidros versteigt sich, anstatt ein neues Gedankengebäude für Moral zu entwickeln, noch immer in ewig denselben Qualitätsdefinitionen wie in Zen oder die Kunst ein Motorrad zu warten - er führt sie nur ein bisschen weiter aus, das hätte er aber auch noch in 2 zusätzlichen Kapiteln in Zen machen können.
Und das nur, weil die Wissenschaft nie 100%ige Annahmen trifft - nicht mal bei der Schwerkraft ;-).Wenn ich das Wort Haus- oder Menschenverstand oder Bauchdenken, mehr fühlen denn Denken, mehr Spiritualität gegenüber Wissenschaft heutzutage schon höre, die der Autor auch mitunter propagiert (selbstverständlich fundierter auf der Basis von wissenschaftlich philosophischen Methoden) geht mir sprichwörtlich das Geimpfte auf (sagt man so auf österreichisch man könnte aber auch sagen,...
There's a particular scene about three quarters of the way through the book in which the narrator meets Robert Redford briefly in a hotel room to discuss selling the rights to his previous book (Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintanence) where the drama of the story and the drama of the narrator's evolving ideas are particularly well integrated.
The juxtaposition of Robert Redford (and all that meeting him ought to imply) and the anonymous hotel room in NYC in the winter and the narrator's own crushingly lonely and solitary quest creates this huge tension, demand for an explanation.
Robert Pirsig's previous book ZEN AND THE ART OF MOTORCYCLE MAINTENANCE is a profoundly influential book in my own life.
It is a powerful examination of the meaning of life in a pseudo-novelistic framework that makes the philosophical explorations both more palatable and more understandable.
But for all its intelligence and eloquence, I fear this will be something of a disappointment to all but the most intellectual fans of ZEN AND THE ART OF MOTORCYCLE MAINTENANCE, which, still, 30 years after I first read it, is one of the most meaningful books in my life.
What is quality?
Is it a noun or a verb?
Why is quality so important?These are deep questions that affect everyone.
Pirsig follows up his Zen book with a smoother, more sophisticated, and clearer book that may not be as mystifying and haunting, but is certainly more mature.
By my limited understanding of Lila, I am a more effective father, friend, son, brother, teacher, scientist, leader.Without a doubt, Pirsig is one of the masterful philosophers of our time.
And maybe all time.
If anyone from the 20th century deserves to stand alongside Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, and Confucius, that would be Robert Pirsig.
Pirsig differentiates Lila's madness from Phædrus' in his first book and proposes a new way forward.In Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry Into Values the narrator/protagonist, like the author himself, is diagnosed/characterized as schizophrenic and institutionalized.
He told the sane what they wanted to hear and kept his real thoughts to himself." In Lila, as he considers options for ways forward for this female character heading toward insanity, the Phædrus character recalls his own previous non-cure: "In time this strategy had brought Phædrus enough smiles to get out.
To compare, biological view roughly correlates with the Red-altitude worldview (and below) of Wilber’s developmental model, which is egocentric and archaic, social corresponds to the Amber-altitude worldview (Blue in terms of Spiral Dynamics’ vMEMEs), which is ethnocentered and is all about conventional norms, while the intellectual level in the book involves both Orange (rationalistic and scientifically-minded) and Green (pluralistic; that’s the parts of the book where the protagonist criticizes some of the limitations of cultural relativists).Pirsig also puts a strong emphasis on states of consciousness (without naming them as such), specifically the ones related to what in meditative traditions is known as nonduality.
In overall, the book provides food for an integratively-thinking mind; however, after Ken Wilber’s philosophy it seems a bit outdated (while being more advanced than all positivistic and reductionistic ideas, still rampant in our cultures, so instrumental to various destructive sociocultural processes).
Here are my favorites (in my own words-mostly):-Darwin's Theory of Evolution fails to account for improvement; the author posits that it's not about survival, it's about striving towards Quality-There are 2 kinds of Quality: Static and Dynamic.
Dynamic Quality allows for change that creates improvement.
Too much Static Quality leads to stagnation.
Too much Dynamic Quality leads to chaos.-Cells are only interested in survival.
What makes you crazy is simply that no on agrees with you.There are a ton more really interesting ideas in this book that are all pulled together by the idea of "Metaphysics of Quality." It's very thought provoking and showed me perspectives I hadn't considered before.
This was a fantastic read. There were two "mind-blowing" branches in this book. The first centers around evolution and morality among the three basic forces: biology, society, and intellectualism. The second talks about morality and ties into quality in terms of metaphysics and having "quality" be a scientific metric to judge things. This was a great book - more accessible than its predecessor (to me) and caused me to think quite a bit.
He takes a very real experience of his as he is in reality, Pirsig, and sees Phaedrus 'think through many every day experiences to slowly arrive at divisions of Quality, ' finally cracking that nut which he left untouchable but no less real, in Zen. Phaedrus spares us the breakdown or absolute abandonment of Static patterns as of earlier writing, but holds it peacefully together while handling an ever increasing responsibility.
In fact, what Pirsig is presenting here is no less that a new Law. The metaphysics of Quality is this new Law, but is no less susceptible to static patterns as the last Law. Pirsig writes Humbly and compassionately, without any flourish, which I at first misunderstood as being perhaps a less than gifted writer with a potentially great idea in his ape hands.
Lila : An Inquiry into Morals I'm not smart enough to review this book.
I read his first book, "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance," back in the 1970s when it was released, and found that, much to my surprise, I enjoyed the philosophy presented in it as much as I enjoyed the story.
It does bog down a little when the character has an extended philosophical monologue with himself, and I tend to zone out when it comes to philosophy, but when I pay attention I find a quotable paragraph on almost every page, a revelation that astonishes me.He is a fine writer.
The Metaphysics of Quality makes the same presumption.”This brings us back to the original question, the question he wrestles with throughout the book...does Lila, the woman he slept with but who is “nowehre” intellectually -- does she have Quality?Pirsig uses Lila’s life, and mental breakdown, to illustrate his “Metaphysics of Quality.” In Pirsig’s view, both static Quality (culture) and dynamic (freedom from culture) work together to create a new, healthy self.
The result has been a drop in both social and intellectual quality."But, in the end, Robert Pirsig does come to understand Lila Blewitt: both the conflicting patterns that compose her and the meaning of what turns out to be her frightening insanity.
It’s an emptying out of oneself which must be done before a recovery is possible.***Lila’s life, and mental breakdown, illustrates what Phaedrus refers to throughout the book as the “Metaphysics of Quality.” Phaedrus sees a dialectical relationship between the static and conservative (culture) and the dynamic (freedom from culture).
Both work together as value-based good.**** Pirsig, as Phaedrus, characterizes his “Metaphysics of Quality” as a new intellectual paradigm that dialectically combines the organic and the cultural domains.
“What made all this so formidable to Phaedrus was that he himself had insisted in his book [Zen] that Quality cannot be defined.
The basic question is "Does Lila (the book) have quality?"Overall, the narrative of Phaedrus and Lila is far less engaging than the one between Phaedrus and his son in Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance (ZAMM).
The book reads like the author is an extremely intelligent hermit who's social isolation prevents him from easily communicating with others.
This may have been intentional as Phaedrus's life on the boat makes him a hermit unable to deal his relationship with Lila.
I read Lila out of respect for Pirsig but I can't see myself rereading it like I do ZAMM.Does Lila have quality?
While I admire anyone who attempts to create an entirely new metaphysics, the narcicism and sexism of this book was unbearable.
While the reasons Pirsig gives for developing a MOQ leave readers wondering at the novel’s purpose— there is a more compelling story at the heart of the book: a reemergence of self-imposed isolation that can only be addressed by revisiting Quality.Lila progresses as follows: Robert Pirsig is divided between an intellect which isolates him from others and his desire for authentic connection.
Perhaps he senses that she can see the compulsion he carries and that she judges him for it.As the story develops, Lila escapes the confines of biological pattern and becomes someone Pirsig can relate to.
For a book in which the author/narrator refers to himself only as "Phaedrus," this is a surprisingly enjoyable read -- at least for the first half.Pirsig's sequel to Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry Into Values covers many of the same core topics as his other work, including writing, wandering, "value," and his "metaphysics of Quality." Lila further explores these concepts, providing additional clarity and addressing some apparent criticism Pirsig received in the years since his first book.
I just re-read this book as I have also read Pirsig's first book, "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance" multiple times.
Pirsig writes on multiple levels.
He writes of his own personal odyssey into himself and his attempt to come to grips with his mind's unique way of viewing the world which has put him in the position of being viewed as not quite sane.
He attempts to help someone else (Lila) come to grips with her condition as part of this novel.
This book started out quite promisingly.
But near the middle of the book there is a light drizzle and then a torrent of classism and a touch of veiled racism.
The book hovers between epiphany and wrongheadedness.
I liked the idea that ideologies could have more or less value rather than be true or false.
The discussion of insanity was quite illuminating.So the book is hovering between three and four stars.
My advice: read it for the ideas, not the narrative or the writing style.
Read it when you're feeling analytical, generous, and patient so that you can absorb the useful ideas and let the intellectualized ignorance roll off your back.
The brilliant insight into the nature of Quality that he explained in 'Zen...' is explored further in this book.
So, at least this was not registered accurately in my brain.Also, 'Zen..' provides a better fictional background that helps you to stick to the book.
Sometimes when describing a very dry subject such as the philosophy of quality some very good fictional glue is necessary.
The mysterious girl or the boat journey doesn't give a powerful setting as a cross-country motorcycle journey.
Still I liked the book due to the solidity of the philosophy presented.
Had higher expectations coming from zen and the art ...That book provided an ongoing textbook narrative of the authors "metaphysics" and review of philosophy.
This book blathered on about philosophy to the point of exhaustion.
The book had little plot and really wasn't about Lila.
He dealt very little about his dalliance with her or what it did to him at that juncture of his life.
Plot slowly floats to the ocean with long expanses (chapters!) of philosophy.
Especially disappointing considering the crushing and heartbreaking real life ending of the prior book.
I thought perhaps the author might reflect and share how he dealt with that.

Pirsig used this book as a vehicle to carry his own personal philosophy.
This vehicle is in serious need of repair.
This vehicle is a rusted 1982 Honda Civic that needs new brake pads..The narrative in which the philosophy is suppose to be realized is hardly a narrative.
The author clumsily navigates between the narrative and the philosophy with seldom and feeble attempts to tie the two together.
I would have been much more content reading a book solely comprised of Pirsig's metaphysical rants.
Three stars for the metaphysical aspect of the book only.
This book was a disappointment for me. Pirsig somehow is interested in the world of ideas in a way that I am not, and spent most of Lila further developing the stystematic philosophy that he had begun in Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. I was actually interested in Lila herself, the woman who forms a kind of backdrop for all these ideas, but she never really came into focus, and I didn't think the author ever took her that seriously. I'm interested in people, not ideas, but Pirsig seems to feel the other way.
I found ZMM to be far superior to Lila, which was rather a letdown to me after waiting so many years for his next book. I think he must have been one of those writers who had one great book inside him. I mean his conclusion here, that all people have worth, is presented as some astonishing revelation, and of course it is. It's just that it's a revelation that quite a few others have had before him.
I haven't read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, but from what I understand, Pirsig spends the entire book arriving at the notion of Quality. In Lila, he expands this into a metaphysical framework, which has since come to be called the Metaphysics of Quality ([http://moq.org]). It's more of a philosophical treatise than a novel, and the MoQ is an interesting and appealing framework. I may actually not get around to reading ZMM, but Lila stands well on its own.
Like Zen and the Art of MM, he investigates/explores the giant philosophic questions - life's questions - within a perfectly written tale of human curiosity, isolation and connection and mostly, insanity - all the stuff I LOVE!
Книгата страда от стандартният проблем на философите, че си измислят свят, който е далеч от реалността и после се оправдават, че реалност няма и тяхното е все толкова валидно, колкото и всичко останало. Книгата е слаба, а в сравнение с "Дзен и изкуството да поддържаш мотоциклет" е жалка.
The philsophical inconsistencies between this and Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, made me want to write an argumentative letter to the author .. . which I take as evidence that he had something of import to say.
