https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/265767.What_s_Bred_in_the_Bone
Σκηνές όπως αυτή του νεαρού Κορνίς σ ένα κάστρο της Γερμανίας όπου μια αστρολόγο του "διαβάζει" στα χαρτιά την παρουσία κάποιου φύλακα στην ζωή του πρωταγωνιστή -κανείς άλλος από τον δαίμονα της παράλληλης διήγησης-, είναι που κάνουν το βιβλίο απολαυστικό.
Επιπλέον, για ένα βιβλίο, προϊόν ενός λόγιου έστω και παραμυθά, προκαλεί έκπληξη η συνέπεια στην ύφανση ενός αφηγηματικού σύμπαντος μεταξύ των βιβλίων - στο υπόβαθρο, εν είδει cameo περνάνε χαρακτήρες από την τριλογία του Ντέπφορντ, όπως χαρακτηριστικά, ο πάλαι ποτέ πρωταγωνιστής της, Ράμσεϊ.
Ελπιδοφόρο.Συγγραφείς σαν τον Ντέιβις-δηλαδή, σπάνιες μορφές της τέχνης τους-, ξεσκεπάζουν την φενάκη των συγκαιρινών αλλά και σύγχρονων που απολαμβάνουν την φήμη μέσα από εύκολους εντυπωσιασμούς.
There is also the sweetly draconian and pious Catholic Aunt Mary-Ben, a spinster who takes over the management of the Senator’s household ostensibly to allow his wife the freedom required to fully live the life required of a society woman, and of course Francis’ parents: the Senator’s favourite daughter Mary-Jim and her very odd husband Francis “the Wooden Soldier” Cornish…the tale of their meeting and circumstances surrounding their marriage plays an important role in the first part of the narrative and ultimately sets the scene for the boy, and man, Francis is to become.
I had never heard of Robertson Davies but something about the book, most probably the blurb appealed to me and I bought it.The story starts with a meeting between the sole three members of the newly founded Cornish Foundation for Promotion of the Arts and Humane Scholarship.
The foundation had commissioned a book on the life of Arthur’s uncle the late Francis Chegwidden Cornish – an art expert & collector of international renown and Darcourt was supposed to write it.
They have a look into the life of Francis Cornish as recorded Maimas reveals how he had tried to influence Cornish’s life to make him a great man.
How to tell the story of Frank Cornish, recently deceased eccentric uncle, wealthy banker and, more mysteriously, art collector and patron, when so little is known to the living characters?Listen to this dialogue between the Anglican-priest-turned-scholar and would-be biographer Simon Darcourt and the beautiful Maria, recently wed to Frank's nephew and heir, Arthur Cornish:
You don't blather about neuroses; you just say demons.""Certainly I haven't a scientific vocabulary," said Maria."Well, science is the theology of our time, and like the old theology it's a muddle of conflicting assertions.
You talk about the Recording Angel and you talk about his lesser angels, and we both know exactly what you mean.
Η ιστορία λοιπόν των Κόρνις συνεχίζεται από το σημείο που σταμάτησε στο πρώτο βιβλίο.
Από κει και μετά παίρνουν την σκυτάλη δυο άγγελοι -ή μήπως δαίμονες-, ο Ήσσων Ζαδκιήλ ο Άγγελος της βιογραφίας και ο Δαίμων Μαιμάς ο προστάτης άγγελος του Φράνσις.
Μέσω των συζητήσεων τους λοιπόν μαθαίνουμε τα πάντα για τον εκκεντρικό κύριο Κόρνις, τα πάντα από την γέννηση μέχρι τον θάνατο του.
Οι δυο άγγελοι εξιστορούν με λεπτομέρειες πως σφυρηλατήθηκε η προσωπικότητα του Φράνσις, τους έρωτες του, τις απογοητεύσεις του και τα μεγάλα διλήμματα που κλήθηκε να αντιμετωπίσει.
He didn't tell me anything about it, but since I liked him and his art work, I gave the book a try and went on to be a huge fan of the author, searching out everything I could find by him to read over the years.
Being an artist myself, and painting in a rather traditional manner like the protagonist, it was bracing to read Davies' account of an artist who felt out of step in a Modern era -- much like I did, trying to make my way doing representational, non-ironic art in an era of Derrida and Beaudrillard.
Along the way, Cornish 'assassinates' an art faker as it takes one to know one, falls for the wrong girl and paints the perfect parable of his own life but it is never attributed to him until after his death.Robertson's narrators are an angel and a daimon who offer insights into Cornish's character and its development.
They explain how each turn of events–positive and negative–helps shape and refine Francis Cornish' character.
Had this one on my shelves for so long I thought I'd already read it. But, nope. It's the story of a half-provincial half-royal kid from Canada who is raised by a Catholic aunt and learns to draw in the local funeral home, then turns to Renaissance painting in the face of his family's craziness during WWII. Funny and intriguing all the way through. Must read more Robertson Davies.
What's Bred in the Bone is the second of a trilogy of books which are bound together by the life of one Francis Cornish, Canadian artist, critic, and collector, and by a host of other characters who are tied to him in one way or another.
The daimons provide interesting analysis of Francis's life along the way, as well as inspiring thought about the nature of free will, whether one controls one's own life or whether it's truly shaped by outside forces and by "what's bred in the bone", a phrase that comes up often.What's Bred in the Bone is sandwiched in between The Rebel Angels and The Lyre of Orpheus, which take place after Cornish has died, in the environs of a fictional Canadian university.
Life circumstances shape the person--and Davies' explores the life of Francis' ancestors before he digs into the meat of the novel, Francis' own life.Davies uses the recording angel, Zadkiel and Francis' personal daimon to tell the tale, thereby being able to record the subject's interior as well as exterior circumstances.
Davies, as always, produces wonderfully memorable characters and explores art and intellectualism with good humour and irreverenceIf you are at all interested in art, in university life, in psychology, in nature and nurture, or have a lively interest in the human being and what makes each person into the persona that they have become, you won't be able to put this lovely book down.
The novel works on a practical level, describing techniques and motifs, but also a spiritual level, delving into the ways that religion can have meaning through art, without getting bogged down by dogma or literalism.
In telling the story of Francis Cornish, Davies revisits one of his favorite themes -- the way childhood experiences can shape a life.
Davies captures the exhilaration of formative experiences, but also vividly brings out how childhood can be confusing and even terrifying.
There's also some great exploration here of the philosophy of art and what it means to make an authentic work.
L'érudit auteur canadien Robertson Davies nous raconte la vie imprévisible de Francis Cornish.
Le déménagement en Angleterre, avant la deuxième guerre mondiale, de ce passionné pour les arts visuels l'amènera lentement au cours de sa vie dans une série de situations et de contextes que le lecteur ne pouvait prévoir.
Plus tard au cours du récit, c'est l'art qui prend toute sa place et qui nous met à réfléchir sur son principe de création, sous l'origine de sa pulsion, de son inspiration et de tout le marché qui gravite autour.
Up to that point there was too much quirk, and meandering, for my taste.
Quirky books should bear a sticker, like the Oprah book club sticker but for quirk, so I know to stay away from them.At the end, everything came together nicely with the description of Francis' painting The Marriage at Cana.
So, points to the author for that.
But in the sense that this is a biography, which it is, it was kind of odd that on one page Francis was 33, and then a few pages later he was in his 70s or 80s and dying.In tone and/or style and/or genre, this book reminds me of:Freddy and FrederickaAnglo-Saxon AttitudesQuinn's Book
Many of the same concerns as The Recognitions, but with a distinctly Canadian flavour. What is “genuine”? What is “forged”?
A perfectly nice and entertaining literary work, but definitely not Canadian the way I understand it.
Great discussions on art, but …the only really Canadian piece of art he mentions is the painter Lawren Harris, who really captures the “Canadianess”, and to whom and “The Group of Seven” Robertson ironically refers to on page 331:“Cornish, you can go back to your frozen country, with its frozen art and paint winter lakes and wind-blown pine trees.” Well defined, by the way.
Anyway, a nice piece of English literature, but definitely not something I expected.
I read this ages ago, before goodreads. I don't remember much, but I loved it at the time. Imaginative, unusual, weird.
What's Bred In the Bone picks up a few years after the timeframe of The Rebel Angels : Simon Darcourt is explaining to Arthur and Maria Cornish that he has hit a roadblock in his efforts to write a biography of Arthur's late uncle, Francis.
But while Davies retreated back home as WWII loomed, Cornish pursued his art studies in Bavaria (and spent his evenings counting the cattle cars that made their way to the local concentration camp).
I say "light novel of ideas" rather than "novel of light ideas" because the themes at the heart of the book (belief and the construction of the self in modernity; the significance of art; the ambiguity separating truth, fraud, and interpretation) are not light, but are handled with a light touch.There is of course occasion for some pronouncements of Davies' grumpy but avuncular conservatism, but these are always expressed with a certain knowing humility and humor (as opposed, e.g., to Kingsley Amis' more strident tone).
Oh the quiet glory of a non-American conservative voice, freed from the lunacy of its benighted Yankee cousins.This novel reminded me why I liked the other Davies novel I read, many years ago (Murther & Walking Spirits), and I'll be on the lookout for copies of others next time I'm in the used bookstore.
This was the first Davies book I ever read, during the Canadian Studies student phase of my life when all books were acquired by picking at random from the CanLit shelf at the used bookstore.
Possibly because it's so structurally different from the other two, Bred in the Bone sticks out.
Its focus holds together the two whirling, multi-character tales of (more than occasional) madness stacked on either side.The thing I sometimes find off-putting about Davies is the occasional, none-to-subtle moralizing his characters like to indulge in.
What's most refreshing about Bred in the Bone is here it's almost completely absent.
I feel like that's really the best recommendation I can give it.
Bred in the Bone is the only book I have read by Robertson Davies, but it is not for the of lack of talent on the author's part. Davies has clear control of the plot, characters, and the English language and forms a story that is creative and believable, though not something we can relate to. (at least in this case) I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys books by John Irving. There are many similarities between the two authors, especially in the way the plot follows one character for much of his life.
I have to say, the thought of Canadian governmental machinations, British secret service, and Italian art restoration did not excite me at all. And, though a slow starting book, I found myself wanting to read more and more of this one...The story ended up being fascinating, character development was adequate to the point of care, and overall, a very enjoyable read.
Very strange and wonderful. If you're interested at all in the world or art, hermeticism, history and philosophy, this is for you. One of my favorite writers :)
One of the best books I have ever read. Kaboom!
La lectura de Lo que arraiga en el hueso, arranca con tal expectativa que inevitablemente conduce a una cierta decepción, sobre todo si funcionan los mecanismos de la comparación.El planteamiento resulta atractivo: la historia de Francis Cornish contada por sus dos Ángeles o Daimones particulares, Zadkiel y Maimas, encargados de guiar sus pasos desde su nacimiento.
A destacar también el personaje de Saraceni, que en sus brillantes diálogos con Francis otorga a la obra una valiosa visión sobre el mundo del arte y los conceptos de autenticidad o falsificación que con el se relacionan.
I'm glad I did.While the writing style felt old fashioned to me, Davies' wit and charm, especially when he's being satiric, is extremely engaging.
BTW, you don't need to be Canadian to enjoy this book or to understand the satire.The novel is a little 'preachy' in places, as though Davies wants to lecture the reader instead of carrying on with the story, but the few flights into art history didn't slow down the story too much for me.The ending felt a little unsatisfying - Francis, the main character, wasn't as likeable to me as I wanted him to be at the end - yet I'd still recommend this book to my friends.
I returned to What's Bred In The Bone after stumbling upon a tattered copy in a used bookstore, and, while I was still transported, I got to look at it a little more clearly.
At the risk of getting too analytical, I was fascinated by the parallels between the main character-- a talented drawer and brushmaster who feels like his talent belongs better to a different age, and struggles with the desire to express himself in an artistic vocabulary that is far from modern-- with Davies, who published this old-fashioned novel in 1985, an era of literary contortion and post-modernism quite different from the work he'd created.

This is the second book in the Cornish trilogy.
It basically tells the life story of Francis Cornish, with side discussions by his daimon and an angel analyzing how his life is progressing.
The reason for this story is that Simon Darcourt is one of a trio, including Arthur Cornish (Francis' nephew) and Maria, Arthur's wife, are tasked with managing Francis' Trust.
Darcourt is having difficulties writing Francis' biography, feels there are potential scandals in his life and finds too many secrets in his life.
So the story begins then with Francis life and follows through until his death.
'Lo que arraiga en el hueso', segunda novela de dicha trilogía, trata justamente de la vida y milagros de tan enigmático personaje, desde su gestación hasta su muerte, pasando por su infancia, muy significativa para él y parte importante dentro del libro (de ahí el título, ya que "Lo que arraiga en el hueso aflora en la carne"), como pasando también por toda su vida adulta, en la que fue desde falsificador hasta espía.El libro está magníficamente escrito, como es habitual en tan gran escritor como fue Robertson Davies, pero no me ha gustado tanto como 'Ángeles rebeldes', he echado en falta ese humor que caracterizaba este último.
Todo un mundo soterrado dentro de la gran cultura occidental, como nos tiene acostumbrados el autor en otras novelas, a la vez que ilustra al lector sobre la tensión entre la pintura moderna frente a la anterior al siglo XX.
El personaje principal, un antihéroe de una pieza, parece que va dando tumbos por la vida, sin ser capaz de recapacitar sobre las consiecuencias de sus actos hasta casi el final de la misma.
El relato de la infancia y adolescencia del personaje Francis Cornish y de las personas que poblaban su vida es magistral, de lo mejor que he leído.
