https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49234.The_Third_Chimpanzee
So given that it's going to fail, it's ideal/optimal if they all fail at the same time.- If you are likely to get in a crash that totals the car in the near future, then it's not worth investing in a lot of repair and maintenance.- Rate of aging across species is correlated with age of first reproduction.- Turtles live long because it's worth repairing their bodies because they have good protection (shell) and so are unlikely to die a sudden violent death.- Menopause is a solution to the risk taking behavior of having more kids.
Hayvanlardan Tanrılara - Sapiens: İnsan Türünün Kısa Bir Tarihi kitabının başta idefix gibi sitelerde bilinçli ve kasıtlı bir biçimde sürekli indirime gidip raflardan hiç indirilmemesinin en büyük sebeplerinden birisi bu kitabın açık ve net bir kapitalist sistem propagandası içeriyor olmasıdır.
O kadar fazla evcil ve yabani bitki tarımda kullanılmış ki, bir Orta Doğu kökenli yazarın Orta Doğu'nun kullandığı buğdaya bu kadar ağırlık vermesi Sapiens'in bu kitabın yanında sönük kalmasının sebeplerinden bir diğeri.Ben bu kitabı çok beğendim.
Böyle bir dipnot düşmeden önce kitabı dikkatli okumak gerekir.Rafımda olduğu için son derece mutlu olduğum "iyi ki satın almışım ve okumuşum" dediğim bir kitap olan Üçüncü Şempanze, yazarın diğer kitaplarını da okuma şevkimi artırdı.Onları okumayı iple çekiyorum.
It is again the point about how we characterize the phenotypic feature that we are trying to explain.Homosexuality is, of course, a problem for Darwinians only if there is a genetic component to the difference between homosexual and heterosexual individuals.
Now the question arises, what does it mean to say there is a genetic component to the difference, in common parlance that there is a gene (or genes) 'for' homosexuality?
A gene for homosexuality in our modern environment might have been a gene for something utterly different in the Pleistocene.
If you've read Guns, Germs and Steel or Collapse you know what to expect from Jared Diamond- a blizzard of fascinating facts, insights and theories that will spark tens of conversations among your like minded friends and colleagues.Diamond is a master of spinning hard fact and intriguing theory into readable books, and he does so again in The Third Chimpanzee: The Evolution & Future of the Human Animal, exploring the link between humans and the beings we call apes (Diamond argues against such a distinction, and posits that humans are simply a third variety of chimpanzee) and the evolution of human bodies, minds and culture.If you're in the mood for an interesting and informative info-dump you've come to the right book.
In fact, I prefer this book to the other books that I've read by Jared Diamond.
Diamond shows how none of these activities are unique to humans; each activity has some analog in animal behavior, as well.Like Diamond's other books, there is plenty of speculation here.
He makes sweeping generalizations that are not always held up by documented facts.
But Diamond's enthusiasm rings loud and clear, and his speculations always sound reasonable, at least to me.
Scientific facts seem to have a very quick expiration date.This book details defining characters of human society - symbolic language, art, agriculture, war, drug abuse and environmental destruction - and presents our evolutionary precursors to these traits.
Is it such a bad thing to see a world map, understand it's a big place, learn that there are about 7 billion other humans out there?What I simply do not understand about the "awww, look at and study the primitive people" perspective is the lack of consideration for the desires, wishes, or well being of the culture in question.
I'm giving it four stars instead of five only because from the vantage of 2014 its age shows, mainly in the absence of some information learned since it was written about the Neanderthals and the similar but then-unknown Denisovan people - specifically, the presence of small amounts of Neanderthal and Denisovan DNA in the modern human gene pool - and in the absence of that knowledge, the author makes some assumptions about our history with those other peoples that are incomplete at best; but the book is impressive in its accurate anticipation of the situations of the present and probable future.
Jared Diamond should be required reading.
I bought and read the book immediately and was even more blown away.
The next time I recommend Diamond to a friend, I think I will recommend 3C because it is a great overview of his works.I was particularly struck by the chapters on language, both animal languages that are only beginning to be unraveled, as well as the information on human languages.The book also contains a striking chapter about genocide.
I would be dumber and my life less full if I had not discovered Jared Diamond.
If you want to find answers for your questions like the qualitative discrepancies between human and animals, how and why men do stupid things for attracting women, the reasons for being unfaithful among men, evolution of language, the reason for creating artworks by people, please read this book. The author shows that such odd behaviors are not just pertaing to humans, but also has root in ancestral interfaces with animals.
I've read Diamond's Collapse and Guns, Germs and Steel and had never heard of this book before, so when I saw it at the bookstore I picked it up because I thought it was his new book.
is Chapter 3, Guns, Germs and Steel is Part 4 and Collapse is Part 5.My problem with this book, besides the fact that I'd read some of it before, was that while most of his arguments were interesting, some weren't convincing.
The book did bring up ideas I'd never thought about before, and made me feel less special as a human being, but I'd still say just read Diamond's later, better books and skip this one.
Group selection isn't a thing.
And aging.He also has this cooky theory that drug and alcohol addiction is a sort of "status symbol" of fitness gone amok.
Our propensity to become drug and alcohol addicted stems only from our access to drugs and alcohol.While I'm picking knits, he claims that the ancient practice of taking an alcoholic beverage as enema would bypass the liver.
Safe to say, it's not advised.Another thing Diamond gets wrong is SETI.
He suggests that humans might be dead men walking, that we're all doomed like the Easter Island civilization.
I think Diamond plays the doom and gloom card to heavily.
Hmmm. This one is a bit dated and he goes off on some not terribly impressive tangents. But also a lot of interesting stuff. Here is an outline of the book:https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4...And here is a great critical reviewhttps://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4...
Sve što nas čini ljudima i na što smo tako ponosni naslijedili smo od predaka. Da li je poljoprivreda bila baš takva sreća kakvom nas uče? Bave li se životinje umjetnošću? koja je veza između djetlića i NLO-a? pročitajte pa ćete saznati.
I will show below why I think Jared doesn't know what he is talking about, why he is an abysmal science writer, and why he is as much of a drama queen as Gladwell.Firstly, most people would put this book on the "evolutionary biology" shelf.
On the last page of that not so short of a chapter, he admitted his explanations didn't really work for our case and that's actually what made us uniquely human.
To have the balls to waste the reader's time and trees like this on an irrelevant theory that obviously does not explain the question proposed.
I first became aware of Jared Diamond while having lunch in Tampere in the summer of 2001.
A quick glance at other reviews indicates that's his most revered book; it seems to be an expansion of a single chapter in The Third Chimpanzee.
That says a lot about the scope and ambition of Third Chimpanzee.I was drawn to this book because of its focus on human origins.
But I was surprised by how much more I found here, everything from ruminations on extraterrestrial life to an examination of genocide.Diamond takes aim at the biggest questions of human existence, and attempts to explicate them with passion and honesty.
Dr. Diamond’s first book for which he won nothing but the admiration of some pathetic, lifeless losers like yours truly.
I breezed through this book with nary a trip to Wikipedia unlike GGS, which sent me there virtually every day.
Diamond points out that the Native New Worlders, far from respecting nature, precipitated the largest wave of extinction in human history.
Just how respectful is it to walk up to a 500lb flightless bird that doesn’t run from you because it didn’t have the benefit of evolving to be afraid of humans and club it over the head?
If I could have a brain transplant, I'd choose to have Jared Diamond's. Loved the whole book! If you have a curious bent, it will blow the doors of your mind wide open. Loved loved loved the disquisition on the Kurgan hypothesis - brilliant to find out where the two disparate languages that I speak came from!
Interesting look at where we have come from, and a powerful message of conservation for a society that needs to hear it. Slightly dated, but still a very good read for anyone interested in anthropology and biology
Most chapters are interesting and informative and entertaining, some are outdated by recent finds and a few are complete speculation with misinformed logic and oversimplifications. Maybe it would be wise to revise this book for this century's discoveries.
The book then proceeds to trace our evolution through hallmark human characteristics and how these characteristics might eventually spell disaster for our species.
It is hard to gain an unbiased outsider’s perspective of the evolution of our species, and the author attempts to do this from time to time by invoking a neutral alien observer who would comment on our development.
The author remarks how genetic differences between humans 40,000 years ago and now are very minimal.
The author argues, that if humans of 40,000 years ago were to be born today, they would be able to use the latest technology with dexterity.
You also learn of the common human social characteristic of continuing to follow the same path even when it leads to the destruction of a way of life, which is greatly expanded upon in Collapse.The Third Chimpanzee takes a wide view of Homo Sapiens Sapiens, explaining where we came from (having a common ancestor with the chimps), our patterns of social and sexual behavior contrasted with other animals, the most important being language.
Intelligence brings the ability to manipulate the physical world in dangerous ways and responsibility does not necessarily develop with brain power.
The Third Chimpanzee refers to Diamond's views that Homo Sapiens evolved from chimpanzees some 6 million years ago.
Other topics he covers are the substantially unique human elements of: sexuality, why we grow old and die, origins of art, agriculture (and its mixed blessings), domestication of animalswhy humans smoke, drink and use dangerous drugs (even though they know it is stupid to do so), whether we are alone in the universe, history of first contacts, accidental conquerors (hard to summarize but interesting), racial discrimination, and genocide.Diamond closes with his views of two clouds hanging over us.
Good book but not quite as good as  Guns, Germs, and Steel. This book was written before that one and you can tell that  Jared Diamond becomes a more polished and focused writer. The Third Chimpanzee focuses on how many of the characteristics the we consider uniquely "human" (language, art, murder) really aren't as unique as we think. He makes good arguments but maybe takes on more than he should. Still, it sets the stage for Diamond's later works (including  Collapse which I still haven't read. 3.5 stars
The Third Chimpanzee is meant to show that humans may be able to preserve the environment and avoid mutual destruction through awareness of our true nature, which is something that we don’t spend much time exploring.
I don’t need to be convinced that humans are a type of chimpanzee, but Jared Diamond has some convincing evidence that I hadn’t known.
Jared Diamond also makes a compelling case against using chimpanzees for medical experiments or keeping them in zoos.The book has introductory teasers at the beginning of the sections, asking the reader to think about intriguing questions.
It is documented only through items that have been preserved, which leaves gaps in what we know about early ape/human lives.
That loss is to be mourned…Reading this ARC copy of Jared Diamond’s The Third Chimpanzee (for young people) was an interesting and informative read.
Having read other works by Diamond I was a little worried about the level that this book might be written and while the text is simple it is hardly simplistic.
To prove that last point I will add that I left this copy sitting out on the coffee table at our house and my middle school son picked it up to read and asked if he could have it when I was finished.
The book explains what is the meaning of the sexual and natural selections (in the evolutionary sense); why the human evolution has reached today's technological level; what are the social interactions between the primates (for example, are there soulmates?); what are the simple (not unusual) scientific reasons behind some of the mass-extinctions on Earth.
The book tells us a story about the amazing worlds, tribes, and societies in New Guinea and describes quite a lot of interesting and curious facts and conclusions interrelated with the evolution of the species.
The Third Chimpanzee (1991) is a book that is easy to read (for its scientific level) and it is a real pleasure to read it.
Jared Diamond'un okuduğum ikinci kitabıydı.
İçeriğini gördükçe ilk olarak bunu okumayı seçmeyi yeğlerdim.
Yazarın diğer kitaplarında geniş olarak açıkladığı konular bu kitapta yüzeysel olmayan bir açıklıkla tanıtılmış.
-Kitap genel olarak insan evrimi ile ilgili de olsa aynı gezegeni paylaştiğımiz ve birlikte evrildiğimiz diğer canlılara da yer veriyor ve konuyu sıkıcı olmayan bir nedensellik çerçevesinde anlamamızı sağlıyor.
Eşeysel seçilim ve evrimsel psikoloji konusu ile ilgili ek okuma olarak NTV yayınlaından çıkan Sevişen Beyin kitabını okumanızı da tavsiye ederim.
Diamond hiç beklenmedik sürprizlerle insan doğasını ve bilimi kesinlikle eğlenceli hale getiren ve beyni yormayan bir anlatıma sahip.
I was unimpressed as I had read so many other books on the same, or on similar topics, nevertheless, this book can serve well as good framing for those interested in anthropology in its lens of human evolution.
The one idea I saw discussed here which is often neglected is the idea of human cultural elements existing within animals.
If you have any recommendations lemme know.I recommend this for those who liked books like sapians, the selfish gene, the moral animal and books of the kind, this will help you gain some more depth in your understanding of humanity.
The single most important book that fed a mind starving for truth, as I stumbled out of seminary with a thousand more questions and issues than when I went in.
Diamond has written a veritable blueprint for the human being...
Who we are, and how we came to be this way - drawing on a host of parallels from the animal kingdom: speech, communication, sex, mate selection, etc.
It's not a refutation of anything religious.
It's a fascinating book that sheds much light on that most peculiar (yet apparently not so very, after all) creature: the human being.
"A fascinating account of human development from an evolutionary perspective, especially the last 40,000 years since Cro-Magnons likely developed language ability and beat out the Neanderthals, the development of agriculture around 10,000 years ago, and the crossing of the Bering Strait also around 11,000 years ago by Asiatic people who proceeded to spread rapidly over the New World.
Also illustrates how human populations tend to exterminate local animal species both directly and indirectly, and how environmental degradation has led to the rise and fall of many a great human civilization.
A good precursor to his later books Guns, Germs & Steel and Collapse."
