https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115482.The_Sea_Of_Grass
The lusty pioneer blood is tamed now, broken and gelded like the wild horse and the frontier settlementI agree with whichever reviewer said that this story needs a mow.1.5*
Great book, many authors would have written this story with many more words, but the author paints a wonderful full picture of the southwest and tells a powerful, heart and spirit moving story, with few words. I have read two of his books now and I will be reading more.
"Η θάλασσα του γρασιδιού", εκδόσεις Πεχλιβανίδη.Ο Κόνραντ Ρίχτερ έχει γράψει διάφορα ενδιαφέροντα και αρκετά πολυδιαβασμένα μυθιστορήματα, όπως η τριλογία The Awakening Land (που αποτελείται από τα "The Trees", "The Fields" και "The Town") ή το "The Light in the Forest", αλλά δυστυχώς το "Η θάλασσα του γρασιδιού" είναι το μοναδικό που έχει μεταφραστεί στα ελληνικά, απ'όσο γνωρίζω.
Και λέω δυστυχώς, γιατί με βάση το βιβλιαράκι αυτό, φαίνεται για έναν εξαιρετικό συγγραφέα, σίγουρα πολύ κοντά στα αναγνωστικά μου γούστα.
Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι στο μέλλον θα διαβάσω και άλλα βιβλία του συγγραφέα, είτε μεταφραστούν κάποια δικά του είτε όχι.

I had forgotten how much I liked Conrad Richter. This is a short novel, so a quick read. He spins a good tale and writes beautifully. "And when I fell asleep I dreamed that something vaguely beautiful had gone out of this massive ranch house like the kernel of life out of a prairie seed, and all that remained was the brown shell of adobe walls staring from its empty sockets." I think he may have other books I haven't yet read. I will look for them.
Oh, and to point out that apparently being a selfish jerk is genetic.When we first meet attorney Brice Chamberlain, he seems--for a moment--to be a man of the people, a man out for justice and on the side of right.
Way to go, farmers!(Aside: This could be a great jumping off point for a discussion about how the argument 'but all people should have X!' sometimes runs aground on the reality of 'but X is not actually possible.' In this case, the 'right' everyone is demanding is his or her own land to farm.
I started this last night when I couldn't sleep and finished it this morning. It is quick but lovely. Conrad Richter wrote it in 1936 and a movie starring Spencer Tracy was made of the story. Now I want to find the film. Set in New Mexico in early 1900s maybe. I just checked and New Mexico became a state in 1912. Lyrical descriptions of the land, good story (independent woman character included) and great depiction of the tension between the farmer and the cowmen.
For a small book, this packs a pretty big punch. The characters are drawn almost larger than life, and the tensions -- between various individuals, as well as between ranchers and "nesters" -- make this an intense story first of all, though it also paints a vivid picture of a past time on the plains of New Mexico.
Sea of Grass seems, if anything, better than I remembered from my first reading of probably 40 years ago. And the historical setting was much more meaningful having just read Timothy Egan's The Worst Hard Time: The Untold Story of Those Who Survived the Great American Dust Bowl.
Graceful, beautiful, evocative writing. Characters are deeply drawn, though the writing is very concise. Amazing work. I'm going to read more by Conrad Richter!
I read this book in one day--probably 4 hours. It was great. Highly recommended. This is the best review I could find:http://saddlebums.blogspot.com/2007/1...
I suppose it's because it was such a short book, but unfortunately I think it's really because I just put it out of my mind that quickly.I'm normally all about early American fiction, even of the Southwestern variety, but this one barely made an impression on me.
The writing isn't horrible, but it's like the trouble I had with Richter's The Light in the Forest.
It felt drier than it needed to be (the writing I mean) and because of its length I felt it breezed by too quickly.
Maybe Richter and I just plain do not jive.
I read this book as an old ratty paperback when I was about 12, but the impression of Colonel Brewton is still strong in my mind.This powerful man's graceful fall from influence and his relationship with his sons is something I still remember two decades later.
His struggles and failures mattered to me.I really should read this book again, but I hesitate wondering if all the "great literature" I have read since then might erase the powerful effect it's memory still has on me.
If you appreciate character-driven stories I recommend this book.
This was required reading in a Literary Genre class I took about novels. I’ll keep this short since I can’t say the novel had a big impact on me. However, the themes and characters are classical as billed. I love the energy and romanticism of frontier stories and the gritty determination of frontier characters. The only fault I could really find in this novel is I didn’t find it memorable. And that isn’t much of a fault in the context of a well-crafted story. A novel doesn’t have to wind up a favorite to have been worth reading.
This was a rather unusual book. It is short and a quick read. It is told from the point of view of a character who is not one of the main characters. This means he doesn't always know everything that takes place or why characters do the things they do. I found that a bit unsatisfactory. It is sort of a western set in New Mexico in the 1800s when the land was being homesteaded. It deals with the conflict between ranchers and homesteaders. There are some very larger-than-life characters and I enjoyed the book.
The writing in the book is tight and focused. There are tightly controlled lyric passages. The picture of the period in the West is graphic. The story is trite in many ways, but the control makes it work. The ruin of the range mentality is carefully revealed in a somewhat parallel story. While I liked the book, I am grateful it is short, and may not have read a longer book by Richter. And the end is interesting; his Uncle's final words are a great resolution.
Bellissimo Il mare d'erba, ancor più bello Gli alberi, secondo romanzo raccolto in quest'unico volume della Medusa. Non avrei mai pensato di potermi appassionare a tal punto alle vicende dei primi coloni americani, ma Richter è riuscito a dipingere un mondo estremamente lontano con una concretezza ed una poesia incredibilmente affascinanti. Spiace solo che nel volume non fossero contenuti anche I campi e La città, seguiti de Gli alberi, ma cercherò di recuperarli al più presto.
The author created an impression of the frontier that was terrifying but convincing. It was more a story of the unsettled territory and the struggle between a cattle rancher and homesteaders than a character study. The main characters were convincing but not as important to the author as depicting the essence of the frontier. A powerful work for anyone who is interested in the settling of the west.
A poor man's Willa Cather or Cormac McCarthy, but still very moving (if over flowery in the language department). This is the story of the settling of the Plains of NM which not only explores the struggle to tame an environment but also to tame our loves and desires. Richter's writing gives the story a mythical, elemental and timeless quality.
This was our book group selection for February. I liked it in terms of a contrast to the Little House On The Prairie series we are reading aloud to the kids, because this book is told from the perspective of the white and Mexican ranchers who preceded the agricultural settlers in the southwestern U.S. The story focuses on a fallen woman who refuses to fall, and her son.
A classic southwestern tale written. Conrad Richter's makes the story and the characters come alive. He artfully weaves a tale of individuals into the changing society of the desert southwest as a new lifestyle entered the country and altered the landscape and way of life forever. A wonderful literary alternative for lovers of the prolific Louis L'Amour westerns.
I enjoyed this book; it was a quick and interesting read. The subject of the transformation of the land by settlement reasonated with me as I have seen the same effect where I live in a rural area of southwest NM. 35 years ago there was so much more open space in its natural state, now there is fencing, dogs, and an overgrazed landscape by the people who bought "ranchettes" to keep horses.
This is a great quick read - only 150 pages. It was written back in 1930 about the time when cattlemen and settlers were battling over the southwestern prairies. The descriptions are so vivid you feel like you are right there.
I finished the book and I found it boring. The author did good at making and developing characters, but the plot was boring. I would not read it again, but recommend it to someone who likes historical fiction.
A quick read about the changing American Southwest. Don't read this for the plot (though it's pretty close to Gilead), read it for the descriptions of the land and the people.
Got it at Goodwill. Satisfying. At times very emotional. Excellent imagery, reminding me at times of the South Dakota prairie lands.
I have no idea what this was about, but it wasn't exactly the epic conflict between rancher and farmer in the Southwest that the library review promised.
Sad but beautifully written novel. Very interesting snapshot of a unique period in American history.
I loved the writing, I loved the story...but the end? Now that left something to be desired. There were a few seemingly pointless incidents and then....huh. But it was lovely...
American southwest story - simple and masterfully told.
