https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438247.The_Triple_Hoax
It's late, so, I can't do my regular detailed review. All I'll say is that I enjoyed this one, as usual.
This book was very intriguing. Nancy is nearly killed three times. It makes your heart jump every time. This book is a thriller. I would recommend this book to anyone that likes action and mystery.
Although written by the same author, there is a completely different voice in this book than what I've come to expect. Of course, this book was written much later than the majority of the series, and I was delighted to pick up this and a few others of the last of the hardback original series. Almost have them all, and will enjoy reading them once. Not sure I'll want to keep these latest ones, though. Mystery is not as well developed, conversations seem stilted, and the whole book just felt "off".
Why in the world are these books so popular?? I like a good mystery and I don't dislike books written for a much younger audience, but this book was just bad. It was poorly written and it was rambly and it was not believable. Maybe someone younger could appreciate it? Except, I keep thinking about what CS Lewis said "no book is really worth reading at the age of ten which is not equally - and often far more - worth reading at the age of 50 and beyond." So, this book should be skipped by all.
Wow. Some Nancy Drew mysteries carry through to present day just fine. This one... did not.Nancy is called into the mystery when a friend of her aunt's is defrauded of some money. This fraud is connected to a group of magicians who call themselves the hoaxsters. Just couldn't handle the story. Nancy was being a ninny.
I consider this to be the first real chapter book I ever read, and it jump started my journey into reading with a passion. I owe a lot to it!
I don't feel like this was as good as Nancy Drew usually is. But we know that the original 56 are the best, and everything else is hit and miss. I mean, it's only one away from original, but I dunno. I just didn't care for this one much. The way they talked about Mexico and the people, etc. Seemed simplistic.
Väldigt bra Kitty-äventyr!! Allt som händer kopplas ihop på ett så fint och bra sätt och jag kan inte annat än älska den här böckerna som är riktigt barndomsminnen för min del. Den får 4 stjärnor och inte 5 just för att den är ibland lite avhuggen och det går väldigt snabbt men det är och andra sidan en flickbok, skriven för väldigt många år sen och det är sådana de är! Men ja älskar dem!
Nancy Drew and her friends, Bess and George, get to travel some more for this mystery - New York, Mexico City, and Los Angeles. The mystery starts with a friend of Nancy's aunt, who has been swindled. This leads to a related case that involves a kidnapping. Typical Nancy Drew book. Nancy and her friends solve a mystery.
Nancy and her friends get to do a lot of traveling in this adventure: first to New York, then to Mexico City, and finally to Los Angeles. I haven't read all the Nancy Drew books, but I was not aware that Nancy spoke Spanish (apparently fluently) or that George knew judo.
This is a good book if you get hooked on suspense and mystery.
Something was weird with the writing of this story. Maybe they changed authors. It just didn't seem like a typical Nancy Drew book.
The book is well -written in terms of language and narrative but it lacked the flavor of a good detective fiction.
still, the book could have been a lot better.
In my opinion a good detective fiction involves one crime (or two related crimes) and the detection follows however in this book there is a gang of swindlers ,a series of thefts,arson,attempt to murder ,some piece of smuggling ,a kidnap and a seriously unnecessary and completely avoidable plane hijack.
so on a whole the book lacked the technique and felt like an haphazarad narrative flowing from one scene to another without any purpose
Overall, this book had a lot of good action and movement.
It was a cheap, and poorly executed, way of getting the boys held up on their way to help Nancy, Bess, and George.
I also really hated how much George picked on Bess for her weight in this book.
It was a lot more intense, and frequent, than in books earlier in the series.
Such attitude would certainly be a terrible example for young girls who are reading the book series.
Elég gyenge történet, minden nevetségesen jól alakul benne, sokszor a fordulatok a legkevésbé sem életszerűek, az események nem elég kidolgozottak, kicsit olyan érzésem volt olvasás közben, mintha kicsit össze lenne csapva... szerintem ha gyerekként olvasom el, még akkor se tetszett volna...
For some reason, it was not as good as the other Nancy Drew books that I have read, but in the same breath, it was like running into an old friend that you haven't seen for a long time.
This is such a good book because Nacy Drew has this Mystery that she has to solve and it is like this little girl is kidnapped and she has to find her!
i loved the extra pictures they added..u can see the change from when simon and schulster took over..but still a great book.
this one is probalt the best nancy drew book i've read. she goes to threee states to trackdown the theif she always has a clever way of finding the theif
Solid meh book, but it's getting off my shelf so that's worth something. Not my favorite Nancy Drew book I've read by any stretch of the imagination.
Placeholder for reread of Warprize by Elizabeth Vaughan
In the Triple Hoax, Nancy, Bess and George go to New York and end up meeting some magicians and finally solving another case
Keene, Carolyn PB
The first Nancy Drew book I ever laid eyes on (at 8 years old). I became a fan for life and solidly read Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys until I was 13. This was one of my most cherished books.
