https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1845.Into_the_Wild
Chris McCandless (in the book, and from what I understand in the movie), is a hero and courageous for flying in the face of everything he grew up with to find a better way.
It is tragic and sad, yes, but not heroic or courageous.After reading the book, I think Chris died because he was foolish.
Would you ever teach anyone else that the way to have real relationships is to limit yourself only to those people who cannot ever hurt you?Real courage, real heroism comes when you love others and you serve others.
Either way, you will have a vivid response.Upon graduating from Emory University, and instead of going on to law school (which was my choice), McCandless gave away $25,000 to charity and began his life as a tramp (or hobo, as they sometimes like to be called).
This could easily have been a self-serving digression, but Krakauer uses that experience, and the vividness of his memory, to explore the the compulsions that drove Chris McCandless to follow his unique path to his destiny.
I think Chris, in his own way, was a towering figure; he was the person I would like to be, if I had more guts and less excuses.
The conflicting aspects of his personality don't sound quirky; they sound devious and self-serving.Krakauer tries half-heartedly to disguise his fascination but his admissions that McCandless was a clueless young hothead sound insincere; he has to say it to sound credible to his readers, who are less smitten.
They had the same vague and pathetic need for "real" experiences and arrogant expectation of success that comes from never having failed at anything in their lives.5) For most of his trip, McCandless was neither independent or self-reliant.
which leads me to believe that many people did not understand the nature of this book.yes, mccandless thought so highly of himself that he literally went out into the alaskan wilderness, equipped with only a plant guide, and felt confident that he could survive.
yes, he only thought about how his actions affected himself.
but man, the manner in which krakauer tells chris' story is so gripping that i couldnt help but get invested in everything that happened.
so it seems massively unfair to penalise the book itself because of disagreeing with what a young man did.
I think that Chris McCandless was not much more than a privileged, entitled, selfish, and undeniably intelligent person who threw everything away and nearly destroyed his family for reasons that weren't any clearer by the end of the book than they were at the beginning.
I almost gave this only 1 star but decided to go with 2 because I want to give Krakauer the benefit of the doubt--it's a well-written book, I just don't think it needed to be written at all.
Still, I know that heading into any forest - particularly one at that latitude and altitude in pursuit of adventure with (a) no food, (b) no gear, (c) no plan and (d) no backup plan is nothing short of delusional or maybe just stupid.I absolutely adore Jon Krakauer's attempts to explain Alex's possible motives and angst.
But Krakauer carefully paints a picture of a young man completely disillusioned with the life that his parents provided for him, the future they groomed him for.
I saw trailer images of a young man looking off into the wildnerness with depth and intensity and that is NOT the Alex McCandless I got to know in the book.
It wasn't until watching Sean Penn's film in 2008 I would learn of Chris's story, a story that moved me, immensely.I always presumed Jon Krakauer's book would be some huge epic, but was surprised on finding out it's a little over 200 pages.
That's why, although he came to a sad end, I am still on the whole, happy for the guy.The strongest parts of the book for me are actually not the last months in Alaska (which had to be recreated based on Chris’ diary and the evidence found at the site of his death), but the memories of people whom Chris had met on his travels, with whom he had caught rides, worked and stayed, struck up friendships.
All that varies is how we define heroism and how much, or how little, we are prepared to do to for that stance.In order to get people, usually young men, to sacrifice their lives we tell them of those that went before and tell them they were heroes who died for their countries, died for their principles, died even for their dreams.
Impractical dreams that are the province of the young.
McCandless' dream of heroism was to survive entirely alone and entirely off the land at the ends of the earth.
This book got me riveted in the tragic story of Chris McCandless, a young man who left his family and friends, abandoned most of his material possessions, went to the Alaska wilderness and perished there.
I think he was a human being with faults and merits, but I have to admit I felt something stirring in me when I read this passage, taken from a letter he wrote to a friend:"...make a radical change in your lifestyle and begin to boldly do things which you may previously never have thought of doing, or been too hesitant to attempt.
On the outside looking in, this seems like another case of arrogant human vs unassuming nature. Nature usually wins that fight. It did here and in a most tragic way. And yet, in Into the Wild Jon Krakauer does an excellent job of muddying up the waters, so that they flow with the natural fluidity of life itself. Was this kid so very unprepared? Was this a foolhardy and unnecessary death easily avoided with a few, slight precautions? Life is seldom black and white, cut and dry. Krakauer reminds us of that, while telling a riveting story.
Krakauer was totally enlarged to make this, an obsessive journalistic account of an obsession.
I am sure that the core of it is included in this 200 pg book somewhere (the anecdote: young incompetent kid dies out in the wilderness); it should be short and sweet, however it is exhaustively stretched out (obviously to capitalize on the popular story) to include stories of the own writer himself as a kid (conceited!!!) plus brief accounts by people who met the young mentally ill man.
Had this dude been into heroin instead, the results would have been strikingly similar (minus, of course, the book).
Of course, while this book is an unnecessarily expanded version of what was originally an article written by Krakauer, the movie turns it into an epic, dramatized, stranger-than-fiction, based-on-a -true-story biopic of Christopher McCandless.
McCandless in the book is still an enigmatic, magnetic, fascinating man, but would I have felt the same if I hadn't already loved Emile Hirsch's portrayal of him?
McCandless's story is awe-inspiring regardless, but Krakauer stretches it far past the breaking point by including narratives of other, similarly ill-fated explorers (including his own experiences), among other frivolous details that I honestly could have done without.
One group seems to think McCandless was a visionary; a free-thinking, wild spirit who lived his dream and died an unfortunate, tragic death.
The other group thinks he was a stupid kid; an ill-prepared daydreamer who brought his demise upon himself due to his own idiocy.I think it's entirely possible he was both.
The one thing that's clearly true is that his death was avoidable and tragic.
So I wondered, how young Chris McCandless, the subject of the book and movie ended up in Carthage in the first place.Then I read that Sean Penn was finally making a movie adapted from the book and filming in Carthage.
But the trooper he is, he persevered for my sake.The movie adequately told the story of young Christopher McCandless who after graduating from Emory University, took off on a two year road trip, calling himself Alexander Supertramp.
I think the entire town was filmed.After watching the movie, I was compelled to read the book again.
In this story, Into the Wild, Mr. Krakauer tells the emotional story of a young man… Christopher McCandless, who in April of 1992, hiked into the Alaskan wilderness and never walked out.
One question continued to arise for me as I listened to this story… was Chris McCandless understandable and perhaps even admirable… or was he simply just a foolish and short sighted young man who didn't seem to recognize his own ignorance of what it would take for him to survive in such harsh conditions?
I think a lot of the people who have formed negative opinions of this story are really missing the point.
John Krakauer points out many, many times that Chris was "heedless" and "overconfident." I never once felt that Krakauer idolized him or tried to make him into a hero.
The people he met over the course of his travels genuinely seemed to love him, but Chris was just one of those strange individuals who don't really want to be loved.I do hope his parents and sister were able to find peace with McCandless's death.
I don't know why everyone went so wild over this book or this kid - is there one without the other? It seems like people only cared because it was a Jon Krakauer book that translated well to Hollywood. The guy in the book didn't even have enough material about himself to make a whole book and every other chapter is about some other person who did a similar "disappearance into nature." Dying because you don't know how to take care of yourself in the wild is no reason for society to glorify your life.
If you haven't read the book since it was published, I really recommend picking up a new edition if only to read that.Krakauer includes actual journal entries from McCandless's wanderings, which I thought gave us a pretty clear window into the man's mind: "It is the experiences, the memories, the great triumphant joy of living to the fullest extent in which real meaning is found.
To the contrary, he enjoyed tipping a glass now and then and was an incorrigible ham." pg 95As interesting as McCandless's story is, my favorite part of this book was Krakauer's experience solo climbing the Devil's Thumb in Alaska.
Yet somehow Krakauer keeps it all grounded, presenting a strategically balanced view of McCandless himself despite what I must imagine to be a profound desire either to glorify him in his admirable quest for self-reliance, or to vilify him for the reckless audacity he demonstrated along the way.
For that he was only a kid, a kid who took big risks (as kids are wont to do), but ultimately a kid who just got unlucky.One thing I kept thinking about while reading this book is the idea of self-reliance.
He was looking for more adventure and freedom than today's society gives people.' In coming to Alaska, McCandless yearned to wander uncharted country, to find a blank spot on the map.
In his own mind, if nowhere else, the terra would thereby remain incognita.""An extended stay in the wilderness inevitably directs one's attention outward as much as inward, and it is impossible to live off the land without developing both a subtle understanding of, and a strong emotional bond with, that land and all it holds.""It would be easy to stereotype Christopher McCandless as another boy who felt too much, a loopy young man who read too many books and lacked even a modicum of common sense.
Into the wild, this is my meeting with Christopher McCandless.
Christopher McCandless was and will of these beings whose indelible not flush against the ground.
Because he chose to live differently and because his company seemed utopian in the era of planned obsolescence and the race to modernity, his mark will remain forever present.Beyond the epic of a young man enamored of independence and love of life, we discover an amazing personality, a Human being who has profoundly influenced those who crossed his path.
One can not, therefore, that remain overwhelmed by the vast design of this marginal endearing.Into the wild is an ode to nature in all its most untamed and more alive.
Não obstante, a incessante busca de si mesmo é um tocante ponto de inspiração.Por muito longa que seja uma vida, se não nos colarmos aos nossos sonhos, será falsa - uma vida que vivemos como nossa, sem que todavia nos pertença!Soterramos aquilo que somos!
Krakauer seemed to look at Into the Wild as an opportunity to convince readers that Alex wasn't just some stupid kid ignorantly seeking adventure in dangerous places; that somehow because of Supertramp's well-educated and privileged background he was in some way intellectually and morally superior to the many other individuals who have embarked on similar journeys.
Though I found the story of Alex and other's fatal journeys into "the wild" to be somewhat interesting from a sociological perspective, ultimately this book did very little for me.
This book is the extraordinary account of one who loved Nature but who did not appear to have gained that equally important respect.
It is particularly noticeable how all but one of the people interviewed for the book who had actually met Chris spoke incredibly movingly about his gentlessness, his goodness, his attractiveness; the fact that they truly loved him and they felt the world had lost a great soul.
You know the Jack London who, as Krakauer points out, died obese and drunk in his home far from that wilderness that he himself had only visited once.This is powerful, moving, well written but ultimately frustrating because it would never be able, owing to the death of McCandless and his privacy before this, to truly understand or fathom his mindset.
In April 1992 a young man from a well to do East Coast family hitchhiked to Alaska and walked alone into the wilderness north of Mt. McKinley.
What would convince a young man to give up all his worldly possessions and head back into nature?
Upon closing the pages, I felt a little bit of sadness that Chris McCandless left the earth way too soon.
But in his short life, Chris managed to touch a lot of people along the way and it is their memories of this man that were the best parts.
Biographical novel about Chris McCandless, a smart 23 year old boy who starts an idealistic journey throughout the forests and deserts of the States and Mexico trying to live accordingly to his Tolstoian beliefs, which denounce all kind of material possessions.
After having read this novel, I believe that living to the limit and suicide are not the same concept, and I also think that McCandless thougth the same.
Not marking my spoilers as I believe most people know the basic story.
If you don't, proceed with caution!I liked this book okay - it is probably my least favorite Krakauer book, but I think that was because my feelings about it were tainted by the main character.
He went about the free spirit/return to the wild thing all wrong.
Accept free help!
All of those things would have still allowed him to be a vagabond and he might still be alive today.Also frustrating is the fact that I hear some people idolizing McCandless.
I believe this gives me enough credibility to lean into the psychology, and participate in the discussion on what drove Chris McCandless repeatedly—like a ritual—into the wild.We're familiar with the most common manifestations of OCD—washing, collecting, counting—all ritualistic behavior performed invariably by highly-functioning, competent, otherwise rational people, always against their will and better judgment, capable of being controlled, yet incapable of being stopped.
My relative has a diagnosed OCD that doesn't fit into a category, and I believe Chris McCandless probably had an undiagnosed OCD that descended upon him repeatedly, uncontrollably and made a rational person do irrational things.Krakauer's investigative prowess is superior.
What a dumbass.
Some lauded him as a new Thoreau, living life to the fullest and taking the consequences; others say he was a stupid, hopeless romantic, an example of what happens when suburbanites try to do The Nature Thing.Who was Chris McCandless?
If he was in good health, his body would have flushed the inhibitors from his system in time, but as it was he had no sugar or protein to spare.Jon Krakauer, an outdoor writer, is fixated on McCandless.
He uses his own personal experiences, including his relationship with his father and a foolhardy, nearly fatal climb on a peak in (again) Alaska to bring some insight to Chris' mindset.So is there a moral to this story?
