https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109812.Kolyma_Tales
This was a collection of stories about the conditions in Soviet forced-labour camps during the Stalinist regime.
They were definitely not things most of us would consider.
The conditions beg the question: does anybody really deserve to be sent to such places, regardless of the crime they (allegedly) committed?
Of course, what makes things even worse is the fact that most of the people sent to the camp weren’t even criminals, but innocent victims of the Stalinist regime.
Roads are always beaten down on days like these – so that the wind won’t sweep away this labor of man.Writing his book Varlam Shalamov was this man beating a road down through the virgin snow so the others could read it and follow in the footsteps of his memory.Supper was over.
Glebov was in no hurry to swallow; the bread itself melted in his mouth and quickly vanished.Hunger, horror, fear, humiliation: everything was used to turn a thinking man into a stupid animal.Envy, like all our feelings, had been dulled and weakened by hunger.
Kolyma Tales was my first used book purchase via Amazon.
I even touch my breast when I say Amazon.)Emerging from a blue period, I truly had no idea how beautiful this harrowing account would be.
I was spared the standard Kolyma dream of loaves of rye bread.
Even while quaffing ale, I thought about those that drank medical alcohol at the expense of their patients.
I thought repeatedly about the carpenter's puppy: that's all I can say about that particular anecdote.
I give Kolyma Tales my highest recommendation.
After his final release he commenced work upon a collection of short stories that dealt with camp and prison life.
In many of his stories the most important thing to the characters is to get warm, or attempt to; many also steal from the dead in order to give themselves a better chance of survival.
More interestingly, some of the prisoners are named after famous Russian characters, such as Tolstoy’s Vronsky; and Andrei Platonov, a real life figure, and fellow writer, also makes an appearance, even though we know, of course, that he never served time in a prison.
Conosciamo così, tramite i suoi occhi, uno dei più terribili orrori dello scorso secolo: i campi di concentramento sovietici, organizzati da Stalin, dove tra gli anni trenta e cinquanta persero la vita impunemente quasi tre milioni di persone che stavano scontando pene per colpe che nella maggior parte dei casi erano inesistenti.Sono stato all'isola di Sakhalin, in Siberia, che sta un pochino più a sud della Kolyma.
E non posso non immaginare cosa potesse significare passare vent'anni in quelle condizioni.Nella giornata passata alla Kolyma c'è tempo solo per pensare a sopravvivere, anche se spesso si desidera la morte immediata come liberazione.
Powerful, unsettling, triumphant. The best of the Gulag literature--- darker and more precise even than "Ivan Denisovich". Tales of survival, violence, hope, revolt, resistance, love, and death there in the world of the Gulag. Sharp, concise, etched in ice and steel, and with a deep sense of human worth and the human heart. You can't do 20th-c. Russian lit without reading this book. Yes, Solzhenitsyn--- yes: read "First Circle" and "Ivan Denisovich". But read this. Just go get a copy. Shalamov's stories will stay with you the rest of your life.
stunning book about a convicts 17 years in a Siberian death camp.
The author who was In the camp writes some short stories of his time there.
Some incredible truths in this book that feel so out of place in normal society.
Some of the most interesting short stories were: shock therapy, major pugachovs last battle, my first tooth, condensed milk and the train.
Some incredible hints and tips on how to survive both physically and mentally and most importantly, spiritually in a place like that if u were ever put there god forbid.
It's remarkable this book isn't better known and more widely read. Connects with you on a visceral level and instructs about life in the Gulag in a way Gulag Archipelago does not.
Disturbing. In some ways, this book is actually better than Solzhenitsyn's stuff. Shalamov writes such short, concise stories that carry so much emotional punch. There is even one story that is only one paragraph long that is more disturbing than an entire novel. I love Shalamov, especially for his aesthetics.
Based on an unimaginable seventeen years of the author's own personal experience with the Gulag system, this is an unforgettably bleak look at one of the absolute worst places in the world.
One of the most striking things about the stories here is the nearly complete absence of moralizing, which is very different from Solzenitsyn's angry polemics; the icy detachment of the author as he recounts these horrific conditions and even more horrific human beings who live in such a wasteland of the spirit is subtly unsettling in a way that's almost impossible to describe but unforgettable as you're reading it.
Πρόκειται ουσιαστικά για ένα χρονικογράφημα του θανάτου, μια κραυγή απόγνωσης του συγγραφέα, φόρος τιμής στους χιλιάδες ανθρώπους που άφησαν την τελευταία τους πνοή στη παγωμένη γη του Αρκτικού Βορρά, βιώνοντας τις αδυσώπητες παρενέργειες του σταλινικού ολοκληρωτισμού.
Θα το πρότεινα προς ανάγνωση, ιδιαίτερα σε νέους στην ηλικία αναγνώστες, είναι μια καλή ευκαιρία για να διαπιστώσει κάποιος τα αποτελέσματα της κατάχρησης εξουσίας, της μετατροπής του πολίτη σε σκλάβο στο όνομα μιας ουτοπίας, από τις πολλές που αιματοκύλισαν την ανθρωπότητα τον περασμένο αιώνα.
Το βιβλίο είναι 1950 σελίδων, με την εξαιρετική επιμέλεια στη μετάφραση της Ελένης Μπακοπούλου.
Και μόνο εκδοτικά ο τόμος είναι ένα πολύτιμο δώρο για κάθε αναγνώστη.
To quote Mr. Rochester, 'How tenacious we are of life.' Here is every trick in the book to hold onto life while being starved, frozen, and worked to death. Yes, it was bleak, but there was also a point where I really saw the wonder of this tenacity. Bread can be a squalid affair but it keeps us in life. History is ugly, especially for those who see its face close up rather than from a long look back.
Duše preživelih bile su izložene potpunom raspadanju, a njihova tela nisu više imala one osobine koje su bile neophodne za fizički rad".p.s. Dobar je Varlamovka Šalamovka, pogotovu zbog:-pokušaja da onima na levici koji misle da nacizam i staljinizam (sssr-izam) nisu baš isto, pokaže da nisu ni mnogo različito, s tim da, morbidno jest, ali pod kapom nacizma ako uzmemo da su Jevreji neprijatelj prvi, onda su ipak postojala neka pravila ko je neprijatelj, Ustav je to branio.
Even in the 1990s, these places seemed to retain a ghostly quality, as if permeated by the suffering that built them.In my view, KOLYMA TALES is unique in describing the effects of absolute tyranny on the human soul.
The hopelessness of the Kolyma camps has a quality of its own that cannot be compared even to the Nazi death camps.Each story in KOLYMA tales is a meditation on the effects of tyranny on everyone it touches, from the bosses to the low-level trusties to the last-leggers who have lost the will to live.The gulag is history now, but tyranny continues to thrive in other places around the world.
Every now and then you read one of those books describing tough circumstances where the reader is almost inevitably forced to think "what would I do in this situation?" Kolyma Tales is most definitely one of those. When you're thinking of Russian prison literature, most people think of Solzhenitsyn. For my money, Shalamov was as good a literary craftsman, but rather than trying to impose an ideology-- which in Solzhenitsyn's case, was a rather nasty Orthodox conservatism-- he seemed more content to tell simple stories. Which, in a situation as difficult as the Gulag, is enough.
He does not use wild language, however deserved it was, to describe suffering; in fact, it appears wildly understated.
He is far more matter of fact than he probably had the right to be.The short stories allow Shalamov to explore many different aspects of the camp environment, perhaps better than he would have been able to in a novel.
The format also allows him to tell one small tale at a time, which makes the event that much more memorable.The fact that Shalamov was even able to write the book is remarkable.
His various tales about working outdoors in the cold for meager rations chill readers to the bone.

forte!
So good--You don't often come across a short story collection this good (the last time was probably Alice Munro's Open Secrets I read 5 years ago).
And there are so many stories that are as good as the first piece, though admittedly the second half of the collection does lose steam (and hence the four stars).
The NY Review just published a new translation of Kolyma Tales, which basically doubles the number of stories translated into English, and though from what I've read of it in the preview online, I liked this translation better, I'll definitely check out the NYR version as well in the near future.
Al principio era il Verbo. E alla fine.“Ricerca magnetica di parole e significati. Ogni parola era parte dell'universo [...] e tutto l’universo balenava [...]. Tutto gridava: prendi me. No, me. Non si doveva cercare niente. Si doveva solo scartare”.
Shalamov never tries to find beauty, heroism or transcendence in suffering, quite the opposite; he just wants to document exactly how bad it was, how bad it can be, what people are capable of surviving (not that everyone does, far from it), how it happened - there's a presence in his prose that's just amazing.It's also remarkable how political the stories are not; Stalin is never even mentioned, and neither are, for the most part, the opinions and actions that landed him and his fellow prisoners.
Kolyma Tales is a collection of short stories by Russian author Varlam Shalamov. I first read this in college and have read it over again to refresh my memory. The stories are based around prisoners of gulags who suffer through the weather and harsh treatment from those in charge. Never once does he mention Stalin. Brutal, shocking and matter-of-fact, Kolyma Tales will change your life forever.
Man, I need to take a break from the Gulag and the Holocaust. Maybe some post-apocalyptic fiction to cheer me up?
Quando si inizia una raccolta di questo genere si sa già a cosa si va incontro.
Forse, poichè piu' lontano temporalmente rispetto all'olocausto, si poteva pensare ad un racconto piu' lirico, morale, di fatiche ma non di disprezzo.
Purtroppo qui Salamov mi contraddice e mostra racconti di ignoranza, abbruttimenti, violenza.
Non mi capacito della fortuna di non aver mai conosciuto vite simili, o di non avere mai vissuto in tempi e soprattutto luoghi cosi' nefasti.
Non so come si possa tornare vivi da un universo cosi' difficile e come si possa ancora pensare, un giorno, di poter sorridere.
Absolutely essential.
By sacrificing narrative focus in this way, Shalamov may be able to obtain the trust of his readers.The other effect of the frame tale is to contribute to the coherence of the collection as a unified work.
By telling the story from the perspective of the unnamed narrative, Shalamov connects it to the various other Kolyma Tales by the same man or someone very much like him.
No entiende uno cómo fue que Shalamov sobrevivió a esto que cuenta, y, sobre todo, en qué espacio íntimo consiguió resguardar la sensibilidad y entereza que luego volcó en textos que parecen llenos de odio hacia quienes lo obligaron a ver lo más bajo de lo bajo pero a la vez de humanidad (no en el sentido de esperanza, sino de comprensión precisa hacia lo que nos hace humanos incluso en el límite).
Easily among the best short stories collections I have ever read.
His writing style is bare but filling and he never forces a message or drives a point.The brutality in some of these stories leaves writers like Chuck Palahniuk, Cormac McCarthy, Hubert Selby Jr. and Donald Ray Pollack in the dust.
There is just no comparison.There are a few duds and there are point where he seems to pack too much plot into a short piece.
The translation is flawless.Critical read for anyone interested in dark literature, the Soviet era, work camps, or just great short stories.
Qualcosa di più di un semplice libro-un'avventura dello spirito.
Non è un libro facile nè leggero, perchè non ambisce ad intrattenere: suo unico obiettivo è esorcizzare la malvagità umana, che alla Kolyma negli anni trenta ha trovato la sua massima espressione, nel solo modo possibile, il ricordo.
In un'epoca di facili revisionismi, in cui da ogni parte si cerca di inquinare lo sguardo al passato con ogni sorta di propaganda, l'esperienza di venti anni di dannazione che Salamov ci offre con il cuore in mano, è qualcosa con cui è esperienza preziosa fare i conti.
Sconsigliato per quanti cercano nella lettura solo un confertevole passatempo.
A monument of human endurance and soul in the face of absolute evil, Shalamov's book is a testament of what makes one human.
The Gulag, one of the many plagues of the 20th century, a black hole into which people disappear never to come out again - and even if they did, they were but a fraction of their old selves, provides the back drop for this heartbreaking journey of death into life.
Apart from providing us with an irrefutable historical document, Shalamov proves to be one of the true masters of the short form, with an amazing control of space, timing and narrative techniques.This book is one that must be read by everyone.
