https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113126.The_Vendor_of_Sweets
نص ممتع وآسر، غني بالتفاصيل. البيئة الهندية حاضرة بكل الجلال والجمال، صراع الأزمان والأجيال، الطبيعية المدهشة في الحوارات، رواية جديرة بالقراءة جدًا.
تعرض الرواية بشكل رئيسي الفروق بين الأجيال في الفكر والرغبات ..فالأب جاجان المتمسك بمبادئه و قواعده الخاصة و رؤيته لمستقبل ابنه التي تتعارض مع فكرة مالي الابن المدلل وتطلعه في أن يصبح كاتباً .
يترك مالي الجامعة ويتجه لأمريكا ..
عائداً بفكر أكثر تعنتاً ..
تتوالى الأحداث بين الأب المحافظ على أفكاره والابن صاحب المشاريع الذي يحاول إشراك والده فيها ، وابن العم الذي شكّل حلقة الوصل بينهما .
الرواية مليئة بالتفاصيل حول المجتمع الهندي والهندوسي بالتحديد ، تقع أحداثها في مدينة مالجودي وهي مدينة في جنوب الهند "التاميل " من صنع خيال الكاتب .
بشكل عام فالرواية جيدة ..
I happened to be reading this book while I was visiting the same house where RK Narayan penned his books. The Vendor of Sweets made me chuckle in a few places - there is the typical Narayan wry wit and the philosophical undertones that characterizes his work. An enjoyable read.
رجلٌ حوله علامة إستفهام هندية كبيرة ، مواصفاته غير مترابطة (ثابت المواعيد وعاشق للحلوى التي يصنعها جاجان و ينتزع بفجاجة من الأب دوره في إدارة شؤون حياة ولده فهو خازن أسرار مالي ويهيل التراب على علاقتهما نائحًا وهو من قضى عليها ) العلاقة بين الأب والأبن طبيعية رغم حديّة الأب جاجان في التعامل وتطرفه في الخوف على مستقبل مالي أحياناً، مالي يطمح ليكون كاتباً فلا يتورع عن طموحه حتى لو كانت القطيعة مع أبيه و المجتمع الذي يحكم السخط علاقتهما ، أمثال مالي يعودون دومًا بأيدي خالية فمحنتهم مع ذاتهم البسيطة لا يحلها التحدي مع محيطهم ، تتراكم المشاريع في عقل مالي دون تطور فيغدو عكس ما طمح له والده ، جاجان المتمسك بمبادئ المهاتما غاندي بروحه المهتمة وكبرياؤه الوطني و حرصه على التقاليد تغذى على الأمل ولكن أمله الهندي جاء متنكرًا لأصله .لم يصلني المووود الهندي الذي يثير استغرابي من تقاليد حياتهم وخرجت معقودة الحاجبين من خوضي للتجربة ..
تنتمى هذه الرواية إلى الرواية العائلية فهى تشبه رواية القوس والفراشة لـ محمد الأشعرى لأننا فى الروايتين فى مواجهة بانوراما عائلية , اللغة فى هذه الرواية سلسة جداً على عكس رواية القوس والفراشة بالرغم من أن رواية القوس والفراش يظهر فيها ألقاً فى الأستعارات ورشاقة فى الأسلوب أكثر مما ظهر فى هذه الرواية, لكن كاتب هذه الرواية أمسك كل تفاصيلها بإحكام ورسم شخصياتها بدقة ولذلك أستمتعت بقرائتها حقاً
Written in the late 60s and probably set at about the same time (I don't know the history well enough to pinpoint: clues are the increasing use of private motorcars in provincial cities, the liquor prohibition laws which provide a pivotal plot point, a 60-year old who went to jail as a youth for civil disobedience as a follower of Ghandi and some sort of early computer).
The son of the titular sweetshop proprietor goes off to America for a couple of years to become a writer and returns with a business scheme, a Korean-American woman to whom it scandalously turns out that he is not married, wearing suits and expressing a lot of impatience with his perception of India's backwardness.
I find it hard to review this book, or even to pin down what I liked so much about it.
The people who work in his shop, his son (whose point of view would probably be more familiar to me -- which makes it even more wonderful that we don't see the world through his eyes), and a lot of wonderful characters like a man who claims to be related to everybody and seems to mostly go around talking with people all day and mooching off of them (although in a wonderful, relaxed way).Really enjoyable.
But I adore the memory of that little self sufficient town with lives so simple yet characters so complex in each other’s company.
I have been browsing much simpler words to describe how it feels to read Narayan’s and live the spirit of the typical Malgudi.
Narayan writes – “Do you realize how few ever really understand how fortunate they are in their circumstances?” And “Certain things acquired an evil complexion if phrased, but remained harmless in the mind.” We read books for these simple solutions to complex problems of life.
Typical R K Narayan story.. sweet, simple centered in malgudi portraying the later age days of a genuine, selfless and satyagrahi turned sweet shop owner. His life is full of grief due to society and above all his own spoilt son. Narayan has beautifully portraid the helplessness of an indian father with his traditional values against his son returned from america with a girl and a lot of foolishness.Enjoy to read and it is very sad but practical to understand the feelings of jagan, the shop owner against all odds.
Every single letter was celebrated and it was narrated to the entire town so by the end of the year almost entire Malgudi knew every single thing about the unseen distant country :-) RK has a very special way of making the readers connect to all the chracters, a sense of overpowering intimacy is established in every single story that I have read and that is how the characters become intimate personalities as the story progresses.
You start feeling/living the emotions of the father here by the last chapter and that is what makes him a master story teller.

بكم كبير من التفاصيل المكررة أحياناً يقدم الكاتب صورة لأحد المجتمعات ضمن الأمة الهندية الضخمة، حرصاً على إظهار العادات والتقاليد والمعتقدات كمحور ثقافي ،وفي جو من تضارب الأجيال والثقافات يظهر المحور الثاني للعمل وهو اجتماعي ..لم أجدها شيقة رغم الاستطراد في قراءتها،وقد شابتها بساطة أقرب للرتابة، وكذا بعض التناقدات في الأفكار ..2.5 ربما يكون التقييم المناسبلها ، لكنه مخيب للأمل بالنسبة لعمل يقرأ في ما يفترض كونها فترة امتحانات ..
Brilliant. loved it.Another great story by R.K. Narayan. A simple and humorous. I liked the way the characters are sketched and presented and the smooth flow of the story.
This one is based on father-son relationship and I enjoyed the content more than Swamy and his Friends. Yet another delightful read from the genius of R.K. Narayan.
R.k. Narayan is famous for his Malgudi Days and I especially liked his Swami and Friends which was written in a very simple manner suitable for children book. But, after reading this novel, Narayan’s maturity in handling sensitive issues comes into picture. He is one of the most reliable writers, who can be expected to give a beautiful treatment to a common but seldom touched upon subject. Here, the theme is generation gap and Narayan in his own way, explore it humanely. Read more about it on http://scribblesofsoul.com/the-vendor...
Jagan lost his wife when Mali was a little boy and ever since, has tried his best to keep his son happy and fulfill all his little desires.
One fine day, Jagan is shocked to know that Mali is no more interested in studying and wants to start story-writing after quitting B.A. in college half way.
Jagan’s life is further thrown into turmoil when Mali expresses his desire to go to America to learn story- writing.
However, as any other father would desire, Jagan wants his son to take up his sweets shop.
هذه الرواية أشهى من قطعة حلوى مصنوعة بمعايير جاجان عن الهوة بين الأب جاجان وابنه مالي والتي تاه جاجان بأسباب اتساعها دون أن ينتبه "مالي" لها .
Jagan, the 'vendor of sweets', is an old man running the business of making and selling sweets.
Mali has plans to go overseas and isn't always on agreeable terms with Jagan..
So when Mali came back from America with big plans, bringing with him a half American wife, Jagan starts to freak out!The story excels on this frustrating relationship between a parent and child.
I enjoy Jagan's character so much even in times when he's just a confused old man.
As for the ending it was perfectly bitter-sweet, which again, Jagan leaves the reader in good humour.Would I ever read it again?
He's the man behind Malgudi - the place I like to think of as the universal village.
Seldom has a world been so self-contained as Malgudi is, and once you've come across it, you'll know at once that it's everywhere.
Malgudi is every village in the world - the people, the mindset, the things you see, the perceptions of the world outside.
For every story by Narayanan, you can draw a parallel to your own life, even in the twenty-first century.His writing style is another reason to adore him.
Much like Malgudi itself, his writing is factual and whole while never ascribing to anything superior.

رواية سلسلة، وظريفة، تتحدث عن صدمة الحضارة، وهي فكرة كانت متدوالة في الرواية قبل خمسين سنة، لاحظت انه هناك أخطاء في بناء الشخصيات إذ انه يبني شخصية ثم يهدم ما بناه بكلمة او جملة غير مقصودة، أيضا الفصل الثاني عشر من الرواية كان مجانيا، ولم يقدم شيئا للحدث العام بل أخرج القراء عن اجواء الرواية بمقدار 40 ص تقريبا، أما بالنسبة للترجمة لم تكن بذاك فقد خذلت المترجمة أمور منها اللغة ، في النهاية هي رواية ظريفة ومناسبة للأطفال أيضا ..
اثنان ونصفاعتمد المؤلف على رسم المفارقه بين ما عاناه جاجان في صباه وشبابه من سطوة التقاليد الغير مفهومة بالنسبة اليه ومن العادات الباليه التي تطوق حياته وتقيد حريته وبين محاولة فرض جاجان نفس التقاليد على ابنه مالي ولو حتى بصورة مختلفةباختصار صراع بين جيلين فقط حاول ان تستبدل العادات والتقاليد الهندية بالعادات والتقاليد الخاصه ببلدك ولن تلاحظ أي فرقاحببت كثيرا الاجزاء لخاصة باستعراض الحياة الاجتماعية والسياسيه في الهند
Unlike other novels by RK Narayana , this novel wander on various matters due to which , I felt its loosing it's track & leading towards boredom , felt tough to go ahead ..Still anyhow , I finished in longer time than a 180 page novel usualy takes .Inshort , if you are a fan of RK Narayana , expecting his same mastery in storytelling with this one aswell , you might feel disappointed .
"جاجان" افرط في الاهتمام ورعاية وتدليل ابنه "مالي" بعد وفاة زوجته..كمان يدير محل لبيع الحلويات ويستشير دائما "ابن العم" الشخصية المخادعة او الماكرة.. :Dحبيت اسلوب الرواية البسيط وطريقة وصف الكاتب للاحداث والشخصيات.. :)اول تجربة لي مع الادب الهندي..اعجبني.. ^^
لم تشدني الرواية ولم استطع أن أتعلق بأي من شخوصها، عل ما أضحكني فقط هو تأويل جاجان بأن الساحر كان ابن صانع التماثيل. أما الرواية فلم تقدم جديدا، ولم تناقش فكرة تغير العادات والتقاليد كما فعل غيره من الكتاب. لا أدري كيف يتم انتقاء هذه الروايات ولم هي بالذات تنال حظها من الترجمة!
It is a simple, humorous and sweet story. There is no room for boredom throughout the book. This one’s definitely recommended for lovers of light fiction.
Mali stops his education and goes away to America to become a writer, brings home a daughter-in-law Grace, who is a foriegner and starts to ask Jagan for money to start his own business of a story writing machine that he wants to expand all over Malgudi.All through the book, Jagan is shown in the light of a good man, who makes a decent profit, does everything for his son but never understands him.
The rift, the barrier, the angst and the pull of a single father in bringing up a son on his own is meticulously detailed - It is here that R K Narayan is a master of story telling.
new India (back in 60s), kids going to America, economizing of the Indian market etc was very well thought out & also quite forward looking.
(view spoiler)[The book was quite fun in the beginning w/ Jagan's daily routine & there was no mucking around.
The father-son clashes on the tradition, religion, Indian economy & spirituality though still keeping the tone humorous made the plot quite grave.
This 30s style marriage was captured multiple times in Indian cinema but, it was fun reading nevertheless.
Only concern is shift in tones, the plot was well thought out & deep but, could be non-cohesive sometimes.
On the other hand, Jaqan, the Dad, wants to help his son but not risks his money with him, wants to have conversations with the son and daughter-in-law, yet he hides, and when they force conversation on him he tries to escape and puts zero attention, plus all his old man acting about tradition and appearances.
Jagan lives in an idealized traditional India of long ago incongruously conflated with the modern present.Jagan’s only son Mali fully lives in the modern world, not only of India but of America as well.
Narayan consistently portrays Mali as a son who has lost all the traditional Hindu virtues while Jagan spoils him and makes excuses for him.After three years in America Jagan abruptly receives a cable announcing Mali’s return with “another person” whom upon arrival at the train station he introduces as his wife, Grace.
