https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156198.The_Public_Burning
Thieves of light to be burned by light—in the electric chair, for it is written that "any man who is dominated by demonic spirits to the extent that he gives voice to apostasy is to be subject to the judgement upon sorcerers and wizards.The Public Burning is a mad carnival of 1950s Americana, a patriotic orgy of God-fearing Communist hunters, showmen, preachers, Presidents, criminals condemned to explode in an electric explosion of holy vengeance.
Life itself can be so strange that even this most extreme satire can preempt it.
It has subsequently been revealed that the evidence that she had done this was fabricated by two of the other defendants (her brother and sister-in-law, David and Ruth Greenglass, who equally had young children, but didn't want to be executed).The Rosenbergs' sons, Robert, 6, and Michael, 10, read about their parents' fate.A Torrent of OmniscienceThe novel consists of two alternating and intertwining threads: in the even chapters, Coover uses a third person omniscient narrator, while the odd chapters are ostensibly narrated by Vice-President Richard Nixon.The omniscient narrative reads like press clippings, banner headlines and news tickers.
February 2013Book I Bought In 2007 And Hadn't Read Yet (As Of January 2013) #1: The Public Burning by Robert Coover"Those who have cast their lot with me shall come to dominion! Those who have cast it with the Phantom shall get their ass stacked!"-Uncle Sam  Mine eyes have seen the glory! 1953, June 17th, Wednesday: Eisenhower is Superchief, Richard Nixon his right-hand man, Time magazine the Poet Laureate. J. Edgar Hoover, Joe McCarthy, and Billy Graham, great Americans all, have worked tireles
Most books you can read whenever, but others come at a right time: I needed a Gaiman my Junior year of high school, and Neil's Sandman series was the right one for me; China Miéville knocked my socks off a year later and freed me from the same-ol' bloated fantasy novels I'd been mired in for years; in 2006, as I was half-assing my way through a creative writing course at UW-Baraboo, John Irving showed me what real writing looked like in The World According to Garp; and just last year I lost my socks again to Moby-Dick, a great white whale still pure and uncorrupted by any English teacher's soiled touch.
A full-toothed pell-mell assault on the American political class rendered in scimitar-sharp prose, rammed into the intestines of the Establishment with merciless force.
Split between a rumbustious third-person satirical voice, making full use of Coover’s insane linguistic skill in the phonetic bile of Uncle Sam—a monstrous American Devil pulling the puppet strings—and a section narrated by Dick Nixon (who has his intestines removed and served up on a plate of steaming poop four times per para), The Public Burning re-imagines the execution of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg in the form of a live-TV rabble shambles.
Furious, scatological, enflamed, visionary, razor sharp, scabrous, detailed, lengthy, outraged, overindulgent, pioneering, vicious, vivacious, cynical, black humored, radical, cartoonish, incandescent, hauntingI can see why this book was banned but that's only for the reasons that testify to its power and vision.
We're talking about RICHARD NIXON here, the man and the myth and how it intersects with the Uncle Sam mythology and our patriotic gore.
"Uncle Sam" is a bigoted, cheery, flamboyant, cartoonish caricature of the american spirit who taunts, mentors, and baits the ruthless and somewhat naieve Nixon to pushing forward the Rosenberg's death in an auto da fe.
Throughout, I couldn't help but think about this passage from David Foster Wallace's Kenyon College commencement speech, This is Water, where he discusses the dangers and necessities of worship in adult life:Worship power, you will end up feeling weak and afraid, and you will need ever more power over others to numb you to your own fear.Oh how this character could have benefited from DFW's warning!The Uncle Sam chapters are much more free-form, chaotic, jingoistic, and nightmarish.
And thankfully, Coover is not afraid to include accurate descriptions of the Rosenberg's as they sizzle on stage for the blood-lusty audience of millions.If you're old enough to remember Nixon and company, you're gonna love this book!
It is with some consternatin that I do believe the Holy Ghost Himself, one Mr. Sam Slick, Uncle Sammy, plug-hatted prometheus is the butt-kickin’, freedom taring ethos of these here YOU-nited States, a tulpa of our ancestors’ devisin’ that we keep churrnin’ up with our idealisms and religionisms and tribality, and that in so en-body-ing that old SPIRIT of America as a homunculus, Mr. Coover here, the confabulator-in-chief of this so-called The Pubic Burning—erm, pubLIC!—has recast the electric glow of our collective his-story!
This is an extraordinary novel, and contains some of the most sustained, inventive, furious satire I have ever read. So why only 4 stars? Well, while there are sections that would fully deserve the full-fathom-five, it was just too much rage to be sustained over a 500 page, tiny-type, novel. Writing in fury is hard, it has a tendency to take over the prose, and it can become a little baggy and unfocused as a result. Some judicious editing might have made this work better for me, though I cannot think of a single section I would want to remove.
I read this as part of a Thomas Pynchon group on yahoo in the late 90s. Apparently I was the onlyone who braved this wicked ride. I recall calling my grandmother and verifying historical details.
Imagine a novel where a Vice President named Dick, a cynical operator and foil to a relative political amateur from Texas, is seduced by the idea of becoming the living incarnation of Uncle Sam.
Coover DOES manage to work wonders with the character of Dick Nixon.
Along the way, Coover examines the Nixon biography through the eyes of his main character.
Included in many of the scenes leading up to the Public Burning are fictional characters such as Betty Crocker and living ones such as Edgar Hoover, Joe McCarthy and Gary Cooper.
Bizarre, strange and bordering on satire, The Public Burning looks at politics in America through a hilarious, surprising and sometimes very deep lens.
This book is insane. Absolutely insane. To call it just political satire is such an understatement. It is vicious, vile, and furious. It takes things a step too far and then some. It taps into American fear and paranoia in a way that is completely ludicrous, yet at the same time thoughtful and sincere.
This book, The Public Burning by Robert Coover, is but a month and 19 days younger than myself (that is, if we determine the life of a book to begin on its publication date, and not the day it is conceived, which, if we were to do, would complicate things greatly and unnecessarily).
Mr. Coover's baby may have grown up to be a man much similar to myself.
I just purchased a 1st edition VG+ copy of The Public Burning online for an even 5 American buckskins (dollars).
(And I pray that my skin and bones and words might be worth more than 5 American bucks.)
Coover brilliantly recreates the Rosenberg execution and the Red Scare of the early 50's, zooming in on both the major and minor players in the case with a level of exuberance and intense detail that usually only someone like Thomas Pynchon is capable of.
At times the book reads almost like a comic, with it's bright swirl of colors and it's crazed American Zeitgeist set pieces which just keep building up into ever more elaborate, ever more ludicrous renditions as the narrative rushes to its electrifying, (pun intended) ordained spectacle of conclusion.
Cada vez lo tengo más claro. Hay que leer a CooverOpinión completahttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
This Review is on strike.Something someday will be added to this Review Box. Meanwhile it is observing my peculiar tradition of not successfully reviewing my Bestest Books.....
But you'll sure recognize the main ones, Uncle Sam, and Tricky Dick Nixon.
Nixon is (as William Gass says in his introduction) probably a more sensitive, deeply rendered character than the actual man was himself.
Sections like the Prologue, the epiphany at Burning Tree golf course, the encounter between Nixon and Ethel Rosenberg, the execution and the final apotheosis of Nixon (Uncle Sam: "You're my boy!") are classic.
There are some more fantastic elements, like the section on the New York Times and Time magazine, or the opera-buffa between the Rosenbergs and the Warden, that are slightly over the top.
And you wonder, maybe, is this where Murakami got the inspiration for his Colonel Sanders and Johnny Walker characters in Kafka on the Shore?Oh, and did I mention, that if all this sounds like postmodernist silliness, you shouldn't be afraid, because it's a page-turner.
It might be experimental, but it's also tense and funny and (other beach-read adjectives, you know the usuals), while at the same time being brilliant and ominous and (other high-lit adjectives, you know the usuals).Now just go read the damn thing.
This review says: Burn me down, Amazon, burn me down!
The Public Burning is a curious mix of fact and fiction whose characters include: Betty Crocker, Jack Kennedy, Marilyn Monroe, the Marx Brothers, Mamie and Ike Eisenhower, Billy Graham, and starring Dick Nixon, Uncle Sam, The Phantom and Ethel and Julius Rosenberg.
This contributed to the time it took for me to finish the book because I would become curious about something and then it involved tracking down quotes by Bull Conner or reading about Abel Meeropol, (who wrote the song “Strange Fruit” and later adopted the orphaned Rosenberg children) or determining if Eisenhower was really ever struck by lightning or reminding myself what Mamie looked like.
1. The best depiction of Nixon, ever.
2. The best depiction of Uncle Sam, ever.
The mythical superhero in the flesh, spouting off colloquial aphorisms, insights into politics, narrative, and power, mercurial, scheming, stupendous, and ultimately self-centered.3.
There were a few times where I wanted to say, "Enough, Coover, get to the point!"5.
A ostensible focus on the pragmatic, real, concrete yet frequently seduced into theater, myth, narrative.
Self denial.
Self delusion.
Self preservation.8.
As I think about it, I see this as a sort of love story between Nixon (as an Everyman of sorts) and America/Uncle Sam.Time to read more Coover.
This is the first novel of Coover I've read and it's a doozy.
Not a difficult read, but the satire is lapped on and layered over like a dog aggressively licking your sleeping face.
It would seem that is Coover's intention as well, to share with us a history of events not usually seen; to go so far into the pageantry as history usually presents itself (sequence of events, and major characters) as to come out upon the other side where some form of truth hides.

Astonishing, one of the most amazing novels you'll ever come across. A grand mad fantasia on American themes, centering on Richard Nixon and the repercussions of the Rosenberg trial. Don't worry, this is no dry historical novel. Uncle Sam features prominently as the Superhero to end them all, complete with his own arch-nemesis: the Phantom, standing in for the Red Menace. A dazzling read.
Eres mi todo, ¡eres mi muchacho!”El último alarde de Coover, es tremendamente perverso, Nixon, y el pueblo americano, se dejan hacer lo que sea, hasta lo más humillante; para perpetuar la esencia de un sueño que, en realidad, se ha convertido en una parodia en sí mismo:“[…] Fuera lo que fuese, era hermoso (¿cómo había llegado a pensar que era feo?), lo más hermoso del mundo.
For those with an interest in the Rosenberg trials, Richard Nixon, McCarthyism, and the entire 1953 milieu, The Public Burning provides a wild and entertaining view of what might otherwise be a dry subject.
Coover’s fictional Nixon is fascinating with Nixon’s reflections on himself as the pragmatic political workman misunderstood by an aloof Eisenhower who both uses and looks askance at him.
From seeing a communist under every bed, we now look for militant Muslims.
Coover creates an Uncle Sam character to represent America’s unbridled love of self, what we would call today American Exceptionalism, a view that unchecked led us to a bad place in 1953 as it can today.
Still fresh 36 years after publication?It's the first year of the new Eisenhower Administration.
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg are due to be executed amidst a public spectacle in Times Square (they were electrocuted at Sing Sing).
Then there's Veep Richard Nixon who keeps having fantasies about Ethel and carries on an interior monologue through half the book's chapters, sometimes sensitive (rly!) and melancholy, sometimes inadvertently hilarious.
"It's a good thing I'm not paranoid," he reflects at one point.
Because that's rather Coover's point.
While Coover's satire and the literal characterization of American madness (& stupidity) gets a wee bit tiresome as the story pushes on (and on, and on) the real marvel of the book is the bizarre humanisation of Richard Nixon.
More damning than any long-nosed beady-eyed caricature , Coover transforms Nixon's reptillian scales into human skin and oddly vulnerable and vaguely sympathetic.
Above all these human-like qualities however Coover makes it clear through every political and interpersonal misstep that Nixon is a schmuck- more like the guy you'd probably just avoid at the party than a devious and possibly evil politician.For the most part The Public Burning is a pleasure to read and is a fantastic and partly outrageous work of satire and (de)humanization.
Richard Nixon isn’t as bad as you think he is, pleads his Presidential Library’s Twitter account. Firing an FBI director is not Nixonian. Welcome to Trumpland, where one of the worst Presidents in history doesn’t want to be associated with the chaos that sits in the chair. For those like me, who follow the news closer than ever these days, reality feels like a heavy-handed morality lesson in an overly-caricatured cartoon. There are even Twitter accounts dedicated to calling out the bad scriptwriting that the Trump White House has handed us.Read the whole review at: https://anastamos.chapman.edu/index.p...
I hadn't expected this to be as engrossing as it turned out to be. It's like a cross-pollination of Watchmen and Genesis's "Broadway Melody of 1974". Having no knowledge of the book's publication history, I thought it was just a satire of the Rosenberg executions. Oh no, Nixon gets screwed. Ha. Oily and dark. Even if you don't have a solid understanding of 1950s American politics, you can absorb everything by osmosis. It's a very dense novel, so be prepared to chip away at it for a while.
