https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17267.The_Great_Divorce
The insight in this book about God and man's relationship with Him is wonderful.I suppose that many who read this will already know that I'm a Christian.
If you are a non-Christian or even irreligious you might try it and see if you can approach it as a fantasy...that is up to each reader of course.On the religious and philosophical front, the title is a response to Blake's, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell and though the book isn't a direct answer to this work it provides a contrasting and opposed view.
I thought it was very thought provoking especially at that time in my life where I was working through trying to know if I "should" try to forgive a certain someone in our family who had done some things that were, well to say the least, seemingly unforgivable.
I have often pondered on this question since I read this book: Do I believe in the atonement enough to believe that even a "murderer" could be forgiven and find a place in heaven at the right hand of God. And if I do believe it, could I forgive that person also for whatever it may be that he might have done, and desire to live there too along side him???
In it, Lewis reacts to moral relativism (the Marriage of Heaven and Hell) by suggesting that “you cannot take all luggage with you on all journeys; on one journey even your right hand and your right eye may be among the things you have to leave behind.” He astutely notes that the “great divorce” of good and evil is utterly voluntarily.
And he does so by conjuring up this simple tale of a bus ride from a ghostly, insubstantial hell, to the brilliant, vividly tangible outskirts of heaven.
And I think I know everyone on that bus.
no, actually, MUCH MORE than a bit...But wait till you see Lewis‘ HEAVEN!C.S. Lewis‘ Magical Mystical Tour will show you a strange kind of paradise - a BRIGHT, ZANY, and very HARD and SOLID place of eternal ‘rest’ your current mindset may not be ready for!A place of truly tough CHALLENGES.Things will not be what they seem, and as Lewis‘ buddy T.S. Eliot warned, we‘ll have to discard all sense and habitual notions once we get there!But they’re both really only reminding us of that old, old shanty, ‘better get-a ready cause I’m giving you the Warnin’...So don‘t shoot the messenger...Just don‘t miss that bus!
The Ghost ought to have seen that in comparison to the reality of heaven, salvation, Christ, a little thing like a murder on earth really is nothing to bother about.
The murderer gave himself up, and the boss did not, and this condition of their inner selves was all that mattered, in the end.ROB: But surely one can only get a sense of another person’s inner self by observing their outward actions.
LEWIS: How so?ROB: Your heaven is a world of great big pretty solid things, populated by blissed-out, monstrously indifferent creatures who seem to have no sense of morality whatsoever.
Lewis wrote The Great Divorce in response to William Blake’s famous poem, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
Lewis didn't believe such a marriage of good and evil was possible on any level.
Time does not heal it.’The Great Divorce is my favorite by C.
S. Lewis and perhaps one of my all-time favorite novels, although I'm at a loss to explain why.
It all boils down to, your will or God's?Another part of the book which I think is worth quoting is from a conversation between Lewis and his Heavenly ‘guide’, George MacDonald on page 96:MacDonald: ‘“...love, as mortals understand the word isn’t enough.
As the book suggests (and the Goodreads description quotes), there are two kinds of people, those who say to God, "Thy will be done," and those to whom God ultimately says, in sorrow, "Thy will be done." (We could also characterize them, based on the portrayals here, as those willing to recognize a God outside themselves, and those determined to be the god and center of their own universe.) The author holds up a kind of moral mirror in which readers can see how their own attitudes and actions reflect --and it's one that reveals a lot of human self-centeredness, blaming of others for everything we refuse to take responsibility for, self-deceit and hypocrisy.
(Nonfiction Lewis works that I'd more readily recommend for non-Christian readers would include Mere Christianity, Miracles, and God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics.)
I just listened to the audio of "The Great Divorce." It was my first reading of this book, and I know there will be many re-readings in my future.
I'm eager to continue venturing into his writings.
My favorite part of "The Great Divorce" : In great anguish, a woman declares, "I'd rather die!"She is reminded, "You are already dead."In further anguish, she cries out, "Then I wish I were never born!!
What are we born for??"She is answered, "For infinite happiness.
You can step out into it at any moment."The idea of happiness always being accessible, always being available, is beautiful.
This book is an allegory for heaven and hell and as he describes each of the characters and how they ultimately choose their eternal reward, we can glimpse a bit of ourselves.
My favorite part is when he describes a woman who has chosen heaven but whose husband refuses to give up the little devil sitting on his shoulder and ultimately chooses to return to hell.
The narrator asks how is it possible that this woman will able to be happy for eternity when her husband has chosen not to be with her.
If heaven and hell are this boring, we're doomed either way.
I’m learning that, at least to me, reading Lewis can be a terrifying, dangerous endeavor.
I started to see my choices and thoughts, and foolish decisions, and how these things make me a tiny little man, without character, and to compensate, the unwise things promise to make us bigger, this the cycle of diminishing.
I personally believe in eternal security, but even so, knowing I’m always going to be saved, becoming smaller and smaller, and pathetic and pitiful inside makes those tantalizing things distasteful, and terrifying, a hell in themselves.
My struggle was my pull to get the story going when it actuality it was the author himself who was trying to slow me down and pay attention to what was truly playing out in front of me.
Throughout the book, I had to learn to engage in each meaningful conversation, each intricate character and before I knew it I had stopped trying to move the story along on my own, but I felt good sitting on the floor as C.S. Lewis himself spoke to me.
“The Great Divorce” is enjoyable if the reader can turn off their expectations for fiction books and turn on their eyesight for something greater.
As a story, this isn’t that amazing, as very little “happens.” As a collection of images about theology, and especially about sin and how it can keep one away from union with God, it is very insightful.
Lewis writes at a time when the certainly of the Enlightenment framework has fallen apart, and Lewis fits into the group which insists that the correct response is to move back, to return to what theology had already figured out, to shake off the “gains” of the “enlightened mind.” This position remains very attractive today: that all the fancy theories and of course chaos of recent years are simply a symptom of abandoning the truth that has always been securely held by faith; the only thing novel these days are new ways to avoid that truth and to seem very smart yet smarmy in doing so.
2016: I always love meeting George Macdonald again. This serious fantasy abounds in humor and understanding of human nature.2014: In this brief and beautiful allegory, Lewis takes us on a tour of heaven and hell, where we learn about our powers to choose between self and salvation. This was a great book to read in conjunction with Milton's Paradise Lost. 2013: also a great book to lay alongside Dante's Divine Comedy.
Those that can accept and step out into the new situation stay and for them their stay in hell was temporary, it was a purging, a preparation for their entry into Heaven; for those that cannot accept or will not accept, well they get joyously back on to the bus and go back to hell; their choice, their decision.
The people in hell can come up on the bus as often as they choose, hell thus is not eternal in the sense that ' inmates' can be continually challenged by the Grace of God, their decision is never irrevocable, the residents of hell make their own choice to go back, to stay.
The Great Divorce is my 2nd favorite CS Lewis book (I am not counting the Narnia series), and what I thought was most interesting about it was the people who were in hell did not know they were in hell.
It was also interesting that people didn't get to heaven in the way they thought they would.
Obviously, no one has actual answers for these types of questions.
But CS Lewis comes close as I can see to having answers, without turning his vision into some Chicken Soup For the Soul self-help bull crap that is corny while being extremely boring to read.
I've finally decided to read through as much C.S. Lewis works as I can and decided to start with The Great Divorce. I was by no means disappointed, in fact my appetite has been aroused and I'm hungry to devour more of this authors works. Actual ratings 4.25
See here for Joe Rigney on Lewis on Hell.I do believe that artists have a responsibility to get theology as right as they can, even in their fiction, but I think that there is a significant difference between The Shack and Lewis's The Great Divorce.
'Come to the mountain', they say, yet most are unable to, so firmly have these detrimental traits taken root within them, to the exclusion of anything good.The Great Divorce is Lewis' The Divine Comedy.
George MacDonald, the well-known author of The Princess and the Goblin, Phantastes, and At The Back of the North Wind, a man whose writings had a profound affect on Lewis, serves as his Virgil, a guide to bring him understanding of Heaven and similarly, the grey town of Hell.Yet while analogous in structure, the Hell of The Great Divorce is very different than that of Dante's Hell.
I had a misconception about what this book was actually on, and a dream of Heaven and Hell was not it.
While he intentionally states that he's not trying to provide an accurate picture of the afterlife, this was still very different from anything I've ever dreamed Heaven and Hell to be like.
I enjoyed the story all the more for it being a less traditional presentation.
But it kept my attention on a storytelling level, and also kept my mind working to understand the purpose behind his presentation.
Just lovely writing!There are some enchanting descriptions of Heaven, and imaginings of what it could be like there, that brought me some joyful thoughts and a holy longing to be in my True Home.
It really lifts the focus onto the things of God!As all of Lewis' writing does, this book gives me the uncomfortable feeling that I'm dealing with concepts way too deep and unknowable for me to even begin to think about; but as I read, I find that I understand his points very well.
We can't truly understand the mysteries of God or of our own eternal souls, until we are taken outside of Time.
(or how to obtain infinite joy by abandoning your-self)This book is truly one of Lewis’ masterpieces.
Lewis tells a parable of a bus ride from heaven to hell in order to show us why people choose hell.
Of course, Lewis doesn’t explicitly say that, but he does note, quite rightly I think, that hell is God saying to us, “Thy will be done,” and heaven is our saying to God, “Thy will be done.” Lewis lists a number of scenarios where men and women are offered eternal joy but refuse it because they cannot let go of their-selfves.
One of my all time favorites. I pick it up every now and again when I need some good reminders. Highly recommend!
Lewis on Hell13 November 2011 Even though he does have some strange ideas, I always enjoy reading a book by C.S. Lewis, and this book is no exception. The Great Divorce is actually an excellent exploration of the nature of heaven and hell and is about a man who finds himself in 'hell'. The this work hell is a huge city that appears empty, and that is because nobody can stand living with anybody else so they constantly move out to the fringes of the city. As such the idea of meeting up with famou
Ghosts and spirits can interact, but for a ghost it is incredibly painful as they cannot stand the solid nature of the realm that exists between heaven and hell.
This book is designed to make people think twice about hell, and for anybody who actually thinks hell will be a good place to spend eternity because it will basically be one endless party, should be given this book to consider a possible alternative (not that it is likely to change anybody's opinion).
Hell in this book is an empty and lonely place, and the people who end up here simply cannot stand living with anybody here.
How come I haven't read this before now?
But, over the years I've been trying to delve into some of his other works.
And after reading this, I'll have to say Lewis might be my favorite author.
You will never view heaven and hell (and those who occupy them) the same after reading this account.
And using George MacDonald as your tour guide?
Lewis had his MacDonald.
And if I were to take a trip to heaven, I would request Lewis as my guide.
I fully intend to tell him one day how much I enjoyed his works.
This little book is too powerful to read only once.
It is important to note that it has nothing to do with the impression given by its title - it is not about divorce.
It is an allegory about the choices we make during life and where they will take us afterwards, though it is not strictly a 'religious' book.
It offers a most startling contrast between the consequences of living for oneself or living for others, of trying to 'look out for number one', or emptying oneself in order to be able to receive much more.
I cannot recommend it highly enough, I'll be sure to read it at least once a year.
3.0 stars. A well written, interesting story by C.S. Lewis who takes a very original approach to laying out his take on the classic story of the nature of sin and unhappiness and the path to redemption and true happiness. You can really feel Lewis' passion for his subject matter in this story which makes the narrative even more compelling.
This is an excellent (and fascinating) book written by C.S. Lewis. It is written in such a way as to make the reader reflect on beliefs regarding good and evil, heaven and hell and some of life's other great mysteries.
One of my absolute favorites. C.S. Lewis is awesome as always. A bus ride through Hell cant get any better. Definitely a must read for every Christian.
Below I said that if someone were to take the Bible as absolute truth then his implications would be unacceptable because the Bible "consistently" speaks of hell as a place of eternal fire and brimstone.
If someone were to take the Bible as absolute truth, this implication would be unacceptable since the Bible consistently speaks of Hell as a place of eternal fire and brimstone.
