https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352815.Pages_from_the_Goncourt_Journals
And until I met Mme Charles, that pink bottom on a pillow with a scalloped border was the sweet, exciting image that appeared to me every night, before I went to sleep, beneath my closed eyelids.The Journal amounts to an argument that what matters in life is sex, death and literature – only the characters illustrating this are not fictional creations but rather Victor Hugo, Flaubert, Zola, Degas, Barbey d'Aurevilley, Huysmans, Dumas, Oscar Wilde, Swinburne, and Turgenev.
And then there’s Jules de Goncourt himself, who by his late thirties was showing symptoms of advanced syphilis: memory loss, aphasia, paralysis and dementia, each stage being scrupulously recorded by his brother in the journal they had shared.Why do I keep coming back, year after year, to this cynical, malicious, death-haunted book?
And while I’m on the subject, why are all my favourite books cynical, malicious and death-haunted?
It’s not included in this translation, but there’s a passage in the original where the Goncourts and a bunch of their Boho friends are sitting around and bitching about how disgustingly modern they feel.
It certainly deserves it.I was reminded of this book this morning when I saw that Warwick is currently reading it.
I'm looking rather sadly at what was my magnificent Folio Society edition until Jasper, a labrador who loved to chew books unfortunately, decided one day that this was his flavour of the month and ate part of the protective outer covering the Folio Society use.
Luckily he didn't manage to destroy the book itself.This is an excellent witty and social document about life in the late nineteenth century in Paris, beautifully portrayed by Edmond and Jules de Goncourt.
Roger Williams, in The Horror of Life, a book I love to hate and am always so close to selling, argues that of the brothers Goncourt, Jules was more energized by neurosis and misanthropy.
And it so sadly funny when he demurs marrying a young woman because he doesn't want her to waste her best years caring for a dying old man, and because he wants to reserve his entire estate for the creation of the Académie Goncourt; when his lawyers initially nix this idea, he exclaims, "But I passed on marriage for this!" Edmond planned the academy as a stronghold of his taste, to rival and irritate the Académie française--not a completely dotty scheme it turned out, as the Prix Goncourt became France's most prestigious literary prize.
Oh, my dear Edmond, we have grown so close over these pages, and after all your eulogies for your compatriots who've died so tragically along the way, I shudder at the blankness of the page after the words: "Here ends the journal of Edmond de Goncourt, who died twelve days later at Champrosay." Your greatest passion, your driving force, was to be remembered after your death, that your marriage to literature would sustain a legacy, and yet, you died on a blank page.
Perhaps the paradoxical tragedy is, for all his ennui for his own misunderstood literary career, I am more drawn to read the works of his colleagues and enemies than his own nearly forgotten novels, the characters that he praises and maligns, sometimes both within a decade, or within a paragraph.
Now I wish I could slap my younger self about the face and thrust this book into my hands with an admonition to READ IT!I can hear Nana's voice in the conversation of every "tart" they record.And the prose is so lovely *swoony thing*.
. Here's one of the brothers, climbing up to the balcony of another man's mistress:"I climbed up as nimbly and feverishly as a madman and as automatically as a sleepwalker, drawn into the orbit of that white dressing-gown.
I thought this book might slow down a bit after Jules' death and the Commune of 1871 (such striking descriptions of a Paris embattled by the siege!), but it turns out that Edmond was perhaps the more sensitive observer of the two brothers, and his later years are perhaps richer in detail and painterly subtlety than the time when the journal was a product of two minds.
But because the Journals are dated, and have recurring characters (such "minor figures" as Flaubert, Daudet, Gautier, Zola, Turgenev) depicted in various scenes throughout their lives and deaths, there is an underlying sense of narrative that The Book of Disquiet, by its very nature, cannot have.
PAGES FROM THE GONCOURT JOURNAL.
****.During the period listed above, the two Goncourt brothers religiously recorded the events on almost a daily basis of their lives and interactions with other French writers and painters of the period.
The brothers were inseparable, and it is almost impossible to tell which one was responsible for which entry at the time.
The style of the journals is that of a literary diary, but one which managed to reveal lots of secrets.
They all had secret vices that were ultimately revealed at their dinner parties that the brothers managed to put down in writing.
Genuinely quite hilarious journal entries covering Parisian literary life for basically the last half of the 19th century, initially cowritten by the brothers Jules and Edmond de Goncourt, carried on by the latter after the death of Jules in 1870. Snobby but also gleefully and wittily intolerant of pretension and humbuggery, the brothers' world is that of Flaubert, Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve and Théophile Gautier, who are not treated with excess reverence. This is giving me a lot more context for Zola's Nana which I may try to return to.
Absolutely fantastic. This book gives you a real insiders view of Belle Epoch Paris. The Goncourts encounter Flaubert, Zola, Baudelaire, Saint Beuve, Degas, Huysmans, Turgenev, Mallarme, Hugo, Dumas and Verlain and mix portray the slums, streets, Theatres, Palaces and brothels of late 19th Century Paris. Wondefully vivid. A must read if you are interested in the history, culture and literature of this era.
I went into this book thinking the Goncourt brothers’ journal would give me interesting insights into many of the artists of the Belle Epoque in Paris.
There were some interesting insights, but for the most part I just got annoyed by the egotism, privileged whining, and character assassination.
I don’t think the older brother was any less annoying, but his writing did take on a higher gravitas for a time as a result of his heartfelt reaction to his brother’s death and the horrors of the Siege.
The Goncourt brothers were friends with all that age's preeminent realists, and their lack of success in comparison to their famous friends makes them ideal windows into this particular overheated milieu; everybody is always getting better or worse in health and talent, and the terror of death by venereal disease is always mentioned.
The end, after younger brother Jules' death, becomes briefly, luridly emotional in a fascinating way - see how the jealous man grieves!
What I knew about the freres Goncourt when I picked up this book is that a literary prize bears their name.
The elder brother describes the decline, and possibly the only humanity in the book is his true agony at the loss of his beloved brother.
Goncourt the Elder keeps up the journal for another 20 years, giving eyewitness descriptions of the overthrow of the emperor Napoleon (le 2eme), the Commune and various other historic, literary and artistic events.
This is possibly the supreme chronicle of mid-19th century France; it's only too bad it's written by such arrogant, disagreeable observers.
If you love French literature of the 19th century, this is an indispensable book to read and to keep handy.
Fortunately, there is an excellent index in my edition (published by Oxford) which makes it all the more useful.Reading the Goncourt Journal is like getting together for dinner with Flaubert, Dumas, Rodin, Daudet, Oscar Wilde, Maupassant and listening to what those bad boys had to say when they were at their ease.
Edmond de Goncourt suffered grievously toward the end of his life by lawsuits and jibes in the press brought on by those who were slighted by some mention in the Journals.
Their gossip and often sarcastic comments about other writers, their writing habits, and lifestyles are beyond fascinating - funny, scabrous, sentimental, occasionally racist or misogynist (the latter somewhat explainable by the fact that both men rarely had serious relationships with women, and picked up STDs from prostitutes, the younger brother dying from syphilis).
But the insight into some of the great writers - Flaubert in particular - alone makes this work worth reading.
And the insights and reflections upon art and politics of the time, and the theatre and theatrical world as well.
This is one of the great works of 19th century French literature.
Sit at the Goncourt's dinner table with a bunch of syphilitics, who happen to be France's great literary geniuses of the age.
Listen to them tear each other apart.
The Goncourts manage to be thoroughly obnoxious yet never dull and if you want a book about fin-de-siecle Paris, this will reveal more than most novels.
Take it with you if you are going to Paris and make sure you visit the brothers at the Montmartre Cemetery to express your thanks.
I became fascinated with the De Goncourt brothers when I was reading up on Impressionist painters and their time period, and the De Goncourts seemed to know everyone. This book allowed me a glimpse into their very strange lives, the bond they held together, and it's a very human look at the violent upheaval of their times, and the arts.
*this review may relate only to this particular edition* Footnotes, footnotes, where are all the FOOOOTNOOOOTES!
Well, yes, it has those chancres in abundance (even the modern foreword isn’t free of them), but it’s absolutely worth reading for many reasons, humanity being not the least of them.
It’s truly moving in places – particularly when Edmond describes the illness and death of Jules, and his own fights against hostility and oblivion.
I enjoyed the gossipy side – which is a pleasure to read – but the moments of humanity and sympathy towards others displayed by the authors were even better.
And I thought it particularly interesting that despite his antisemitism, Edmond did not believe that Dreyfus was guilty.
I can appreciate this reaction because the subject is too often seen as 'Private' and a sex-obsessed Church has made it into the Cardinal Sin.These Monastic Romances, for these relationships were taken very seriously by the participants, were bred from a desperate loneliness and stifiled youthful desire; many left the Monastic Life feeling they had failed, whereas I always considered that the system had failed us.
The stars in the firmament of 19th century French literature will lose some of their lustre when you read these very entertaining memoirs.
For any serious student of the fiction and drama of the period, the de Goncourt journals (whether in English or in French) must be compulsory reading (“incontournable”, as the French would say).
This selection in translation just makes an invaluable document more approachable for the anglophone reader, and more than merely approachable – it’s altogether a compelling read.
The Goncourt Journals will appeal mostly to those that have read Zola, Flaubert, Daudet, Dumas, Turgenev and many other great writers living in France in the late 19th-C.
This is a journal so it doesn’t really prevent me from enjoying the work as such – but I think potential readers should be aware that if you’ve come looking for the lofty prose of Zola and Flaubert, you will find little of that here.
What was modern in the early years of the Goncourts gives way to the symbolist writers that saw little need for reverence of their predecessors and the Goncourt’s help the reader clearly understand this shift in trends.
Parisian life, as being very entertaining, indeed.
Did people really write like this, even in their private journals?
They are delicate, high-strung, sensitive, and shrill.But they also have 'spine' where and when it is called for.
How unlike like the poltroons and cowards we suffer these days!
But if in all our modernity, we advance only towards hokum, self-deception, propaganda, whitewash and falsification, we are no better than these Parisians--and we're certainly not having nearly as much fun.
I'm certainly a fan of books I can whip through thoughtlessly that don't present a lot of challenges to my known vocabulary or worldview for the sake of leisure. This is not one of those books. Despite that, I enjoyed it tremendously, if only because of the sense of wonder it provided me at each turn of the page at how drastically life has improved over these last 250 years through scientific, social and economic developments. Also it's quite funny in a mordant, Gallic way.
I'm reading through a selection of Geoff Dyer's essays and ran into this one on the Goncourts:http://www.theguardian.com/books/2006...It does express well what makes a collection that should be insufferable so compelling. I wouldn't want to hang out with the brothers Goncourt, but reading from the outside is great fun.
inside gossip diaries from the two Goncourt brothers,of the topical (politic) & literary & art worldmid-19th century France (1850 onward)Coup's, adultery, & vanities of authors such as Flaubert, Baudelaire & Napoleon III, etc.
Great book for a trip, or for the hospital--when you can't read continuously. Dig around in it to find interesting nuggets. Yes, obvious male bias, but of historical interest just because of that. Read between the lines...
Paris, in fact, is no longer the Paris of old, but an open city to which all the robbers of the world, after making their fortune in business, come to eat poor food and rub against flesh which calls itself Parisian.
- 1889This one is a feast of a time capsule.The diary entries about the dinner parties are especially surreal, since the Goncourt brothers kept company with the likes of Flaubert, Dumas, Zola, etc.To be sure, not everything here is profound.
But the way the Goncourts animate their time and place is indelible.
Witty, gossipy, lots of fun to read. I'm not a scholar or devotee of the time period, but the book was very enjoyable all the same - it would likely be a delight if this time and place are your jam already.
I love a diary but I didn’t enjoy this one as much as I thought I would.Apart from the usual suspects, it left me feeling that my knowledge of French literature was woefully lacking
