https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1188127.The_Goshawk
A wholly charming book with a sumptuous prose style, of a writer's attempts to train a goshawk to killl game.
In many ways, this is a distant relative of the contemporary bestseller H is for Hawk.
The book's structure is a day-by-day account of the author's determination to train this bird, 'Gos', and convince it to trust him.
The book can also be read as a study of the English countryside, or a glimpse into the author's philosophy of life, a struggle of human willpower against nature, or the ineffectiveness of 17th century falconry books.
Here, in this foray into falconry, I learned of the austringer, of imping, of jesses and creances; I stepped carefully around mutes and flinched at every bate.
This is White's journal of his very amateurish beginning in falconry.
So, at times this has a forced quality, a 'this is what I did on Tuesday' feel.Still, the writer exposes the savagery of the hawk, not just the soaring beauty.
The exceptional nyrb cover shows a portion of this painting, which does the same: And too, he exposes the man at the other end of the creance:Blood-lust is a word which has got shop-soiled.
Non lo credo, né per quanto riguarda il diario, né a riguardo dell'addestramento.Diario che è stato dichiaratamente scritto per poter essere pubblicato e consentire così all'autore di raggranellare qualche soldo, quel tanto che gli potesse consentire di mantenersi nella sua libertà e nella sua selvaticità nella campagna inglese, senza un vincolo o un padrone, libero di dedicare tutto il suo tempo e il suo impegno alla caccia e alla falconeria: dunque un libro dove, un po' come ne "La Storia infinita" di Ende, contenuto e contenitore si incrociano e si inseguono in un loop senza inizio e senza fine.
Went there after reading H is for Hawk, stayed for the pure pleasure of T. H. White's writing, which totally outweighed Helen Macdonald's retelling of the entire story within her recent book.

He's learned life from books, so far, and therefore why not buy a goshawk, captured in the wild — in Germany!
Even as "I was stroking a murderer, a savage," the bigger world around him is full of mounting violence, and of politics that pursue the kill; he concludes, "we still lived in the Middle Ages." So why not be there together.A philosophical line is drawn directly between the training of the hawk and the practicing of pacifism.
In his world there are still old ways to rest upon, and wild things to take at will.Still I love him.
Fra i tantissimi libri che ho in lista, mai avrei deciso di aggiungere L'astore se non mi fossi imbattuto nelle splendide recensioni di Malacorda e Roberto.
Grazie, cari amici!Legarsi a un falco significa non potersi permettere sciatterie e smancerie.
Nessun falco può essere un animale da compagnia; il sentimentalismo è escluso.
In un certo senso, è l’arte dello psichiatra.
Non c’è nessun desiderio di transfert affettivi, nessuna richiesta di disonorevoli atti d’omaggio o di riconoscenza.
È un tonico per la meno schietta ferinità del cuore umano.Colui che ha creato l’Agnello ha creato anche te?
I think that my response to The Goshawk was greatly influenced by Macdonald’s book.As one reads The Goshawk, one becomes aware of the struggles within White, even as he struggled for mastery of the hawk Gos.I suspect that White fled from the life of a schoolmaster because of the terrible temptations it offered, as when he speaks of the use of punishment in the management of schools “...because of the pleasures of flagellation.” Perhaps he hoped for a new start, if he felt that "" In any setback, he reverted to the language of domination and punishment: “...the authority established, the perserverance not now flouted lest it should be thought of as weak thereafter”, “Yet it was sometimes difficult to believe that he was not merely being naughty.
I read The Sword in the Stone and The Once and Future King when I was much younger. This illuminates the things he writes in those books about raptors, and reveals the deep fascination he has for these magnificent birds. As he writes about his efforts to train a goshawk, it's not so much a matter, for him, of subjugating the bird as understanding the way it thinks and feels. The other thing I appreciated here was the bits of erudition scattered here and there in his allusions to history and literature.
Erudito e letterato finissimo, calligrafo, artigiano squisito e naturalista affascinato dal ferino; personaggio scontroso, ritiratosi in solitudine in uno sperduto cottage nella campagna inglese, nel 1937 restò avvinto da un trattato secentesco di falconeria e ordinò dalla Germania un astore, il più coriaceo fra i rapaci, per dedicarsi, ignaro, al suo addestramento.Quando lo vidi per la prima volta, era una cosa rotonda che assomigliava a un cestino per i panni sporchi coperto da una tela da sacco ...
Perché il primo falco tocca sempre il falconiere nel profondo, e la sua perdita gli causa “uno smottamento del cuore” che lascia senza respiro.Un diario di sei settimane di addestramento, in cui lo scrittore-addestratore lotta, sbaglia, fallisce, si tormenta, e alla fine rimane chiuso fuori dal mondo del rapace.Legarsi a un falco significa non potersi permettere sciatterie e smancerie.
I can count these sorts of encounters with non-fiction on two hands.The premise is simple: T.H. White, the guy who wrote "The Once and Future King", bought a goshawk and tried to train it to hunt himself, using books from the 17th century.
He then wrote a book about it.I'd be hard-pressed to elucidate what it exactly is about this book that endeared me to it so much.
The answer might perhaps lie in White's own justification which has to do with wild things and men and feral states and the bliss of nature and ferocity and reversion.

It chronicles White's efforts to apply the falconry methods of the Middle Ages and train a bird named Gos.In some ways The Goshawk is a difficult book to read.
(hide spoiler)] It feels like the end of the world.In other ways, though, the book made me very happy.
White is working on the same problems in this book as the ones he gives Arthur, and he's doing his best to learn by thinking like his animals.
There's always a chance (view spoiler)[that Gos is happy and free, (hide spoiler)] that humanity can learn the lessons of wildness but still act and think as itself, and the world isn't ending after all.
H. White's memoir of trying to train a goshawk were it not for Helen Macdonald's wonderful analysis in H is for Hawk, her recent account of training her own hawk.
In fact, I realized that by embracing the comparison with White, Macdonald was writing for her life.
When the red rhenish wine of their blood pulsed at full spate through their arteries, when the airy bird bones were gas-filled with little bubbles of unbiddable warm virility, no merely human being could bend them to his will." For both writers, the elemental wildness of their captor-captive stirs them to flights of verbal magnificence on virtually every page.
If you've ever been to a Renaissance Faire you might have witnessed the fascinating hobby of Falconry, if you found it as interesting as I did and maybe even dreamed of owning a raptor of your own this book shows how one famous writer set about learning how to do it all on his own with just three books one written in the 1600's as his guide.
Che è un bellissimo rapace, più o meno un chilogrammo di peso (la femmina è molto più grande del maschio...) con un metro e venti circa di apertura alare (non nego di non avere avuto la più pallida idea di cosa fosse un astore prima di leggere il libro).La caratteristica di questo animale, uno spietato assassino dagli occhi di ghiaccio che "sarebbe andato perfettamente d’accordo con Attila", è di non essere facilmente addestrabile.
Se la caccia con i rapaci è l'argomento principe di questo quasi memoir, non manca la contraddizione fra la paura della guerra, il pacifismo e la violenza comunque insita nella caccia e nel voler addestrare per sé un rapace a fare quello che dovrebbe fare per natura.
Dicevo quasi memoir perché comunque non lo è completamente, è molto più un libro sulla falconeria, ci sono parecchi particolari e disegni di attrezzatura per il rapace, trappole etc., penso che se non si ha un'anima da scout (per chi ha la mia età direi un'anima da giovani marmotte) queste parti possano risultare abbastanza pesanti.
Having just finished White's Sword in the Stone, and having just learned what an acciptor is (raptors, including goshawks, who diet on other birds) I discovered that T.H. White had written this memoir.
Also, there was this bizarre psychology between man and bird unlike anything I've ever encountered before.When the book was published in 1951, White added a third section with an overview of his continued practice with another goshawk, changes in method, and mention of the disappearance of the practice in England, but which he was glad to see continuing in America.
I love T.
H. White, and the reason why I love his writing shines through in punctuated brilliance in this brief book.
This is a book about terrible falconry performed with zeal fired by the best intentions and armed with very antiquated source material.Still, White's enthusiasm for the sport and for the intense relationship between falconer and hawk is moving and incisive.
There are a few sections in which a more clearly definite goal might have proven helpful, but these were probably left in place to give the impression of desperate aimlessness felt by the bewildered and bereaved White.
Imagine if Henry David Thoreau had gone off to write "Walden" with a ferocious bird of prey to keep him company, and you'll get an inkling of...
-- No, scratch that, this book defies fanciful mash-up thinking.
"The Goshawk" is a wonderful and weird little book that is unlike anything I've read before.
Early on in his narrative White frets that there is a "folly in thinking that anybody would want to buy a book about mere birds." This book is about birds, yes, but it is also about so, so much more.
Folly or not -- read it.
White's utterly charming use of language manages to save what would otherwise be a repetitive journal primarily concerned with a hopelessly redundant pastime. Can't go too far wrong with couplets such as this: "Standing in the thick grass, with slow heart beats soothed by the still night, I thoughtfully broke wind. The horns of elfland faintly blowing." Plus, I also have a penchant for memoirs concerned with personal failure.
Wasn't expecting the hawk to turn out to be a glove puppet.
Astenersi vegani
Here's how he describes receiving his young, wild goshawk:"When I first saw him he was a round thing like a clothes basket covered with sacking.
The basket pulsed like a big heart in fever.
The falconer (more correctly, austringer) overcomes the bird's resistance to settling on his glove by staying awake with the bird until the bird is so drowsy that it accepts to fall asleep on the glove.
Bird and man typically stay awake 3 days and nights together, or if the man is clumsy, up to 9 days and nights.The Goshawk is a strange glimpse into another life and another century.
I rapaci non hanno una tradizione di masochismo, e quanto più li si minaccia o li si tormenta, tanto più s’inferociscono.
Qualunque crudeltà ha l’effetto immediato di incattivirli, ed è quindi peggio che inutile, perché l’uccello non si piegherà né arrenderà mai.
il rapace angariato sceglie di morire».(Leggere un libro sulla falconeria vuol dire cominciare a parlare di geti e lunghe, esemplari di alto e basso volo, penne primarie e apertura alare a tutte le persone che incontri con l’entusiasmo di una scoperta.
Il libro di T.
Per me, qualcosa che assomiglia molto al concetto di animale guida.)
I wasn’t prepared to love The Goshawk.
Having just (re)read Helen Macdonald’s 10 star H is for Hawk, I knew to expect White’s torture of Gos, his unwitting abuse of his tiercel, the horrid treatment of the pigeons and the owls.
What I wasn’t prepared for was the beautiful language, the Shakespeare, the precursor to The Once and Future King.
His self-aware chastisement of his own ‘training’ methods.
I loved (and cringed at) this book.
I finished it in the café of my local library.
I can only hope, since it’s a library, that they understood that this happens at the end of books!
Honestly just a beautiful little exploration of the relationship between man and beast and the strange understandings to which they are sometimes brought. Also, now I want to take up falconry.
This is a beautifully written diary about White's training, struggles, and relationship with a goshawk. Other readers rave about "The Once and Future King". The author's wonderful prose tempts me to read this also.
After reading H is for Hawk by MacDonald, I felt compelled to read this classic. Now I must read more by White!
Neither the man nor the bird taught the other enough about himself to make the relationship work.White decides, for undisclosed reasons, to train the goshawk according to medieval methods, the first part of which required the austringer (falconer is a term used for long-winged hawks) to stay awake with the bird until the bird falls asleep on his glove.
But it presented itself the other way about, saying: To live laborious days for their delight.’It’s also a love song to the goshawk, that wildest of wild birds, and to Gos in particular.
