https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200963.Meet_Samantha
American Girl dolls were all the hype when I was little.
Each of the American Girl dolls come with a story about the time period of which they live in.
These stories educate young girls about a different time period and culture that their dolls live in.
After reading this book about Samantha's life, I wanted to research more about what was considered to be ladylike in the 1900's.
In the first book of the Samantha series, Samantha is an orphan living with her Grandmary and several maids, cooks and butlers.
Jessie, one of her maids, is one of the closest people in Samantha's life.
The Pleasant Company has done a great job through all of its American Girl stories and products in helping to make history interesting for kids in a variety of different ways, while making it a priority to address their contemporary concerns as well.
This was the world in which Samantha and Nellie lived and grew, though, a real world of disparity and sometimes frequent unfairness, and the inclusion of such details helps to give us a clear window into what life was like for everyone involved.
Meet Samantha is one book in the Americal Girls series.
The book takes you essentially through Samantha's life.
She lived in a time, 1904, where being a "lady" was a very valued concept.
She ran home to tell her housekeeper and the house keeper simply said, "Here you are, nine years old, almost a lady, and still getting into mischief like a ragmuffin." She was forced to grow up rather quickly.
Throughout the book and her life, Samantha goes through many trials and tribulations while just trying to find herself.
I think this book would be appealing to the majority of students mostly being girls.
Samantha is the only authentic American Girl doll I own.
Samantha is not my favorite after having read all character series.
She was my favorite at the time I got the doll.Going back and rereading the first book made me view Samantha as a brat.
I know there are plot devices that need to be used to not make the young girls reading these books feel dumb for not knowing what a historical word means.
Also, there's a difference between plot device and stupidity/cluelessness.
Bro, I swear I think this is one of the books, I've been dying to find. Because I remember reading them in elementary. Even my oldest brother knows what I'm talking about because he read the exact books. Every time we had library class, I'll go to the book section where these books were located at and checked them out. This use to be one of my favorite books when I was a kid. These the books that made me get into reading besides Junie B Jones books. Up to me I'll buy the full collection swear lol.
Really excellent with a very socially conscious plot dealing with poverty, child labour, racial segregation and the women suffrage campaign. The illustrations are beautiful too and I love the ethos behind American Girl, 'American Girl celebrates a girl's inner star - that little whisper that encourages her to stand tall, reach high and dream big. We take pride and care in helping girls become their very best today, so they'll grow up to be the women who make a difference tomorrow.'
Remember me? I don't know how to reach you.I hear that you spoke to R. a few times. He says he is worried about you, but that he doesn't know how to help. I feel that way too. I can listen.I am still your friend.I know you have had some hard times, but remember that you still have friends and people here who care about you. When you left, K. was really worried. L.too. And, R. was a mess.With absurd amounts of platonic love,Your friend
I was unable to read between the lines.
Now I am a dignified woman of eighteen and the atrocities contained within this book are extremely alarming to me.The story begins with Samantha falling out of a tree, the little uncoordinated waif that she is.
This foreshadowing happens in the first page of the first book.At witnessing this extreme example of Samantha's clumsiness, her neighbor Eddie Ryland calls her "dumb".
He says she's "so dumb [she] doesn't even know how to climb a tree".
But unlike Samantha, Eddie doesn't fall out of trees or relationships or addictions.
It would mess up my rating algorithm to add books I read more than half a lifetime ago, but this one holds a special place in my life. American Girl got me into Dear America three years later, which subsequently led me to Anastasia: The Last Grand Duchess, Russia, 1914 which, along withThe Black Circle began my interest in Russian history and brought me to the place I am right now. It's hard to imagine my life if I hadn't read this series. I know it sounds weird.

I think it is a nice read, not too complex, but also has a lot of room for discussion.One idea of how I would use this book in my classroom would be to talk about the time period of this story.
Another idea is that this could lead into to talking about poverty and the different ways that people grow up, but how no matter their differences they were still friends.
This would was a WOW book for me because it just shocks me to see how differently people grow up, and how much has changed over time.
My 6 yr old loved listening to this book (one of my childhood favorites.) This is what he said about it - "So if I lived in 1904 I couldn't ask grown-ups questions? Only other kids? Wow I'm glad I didn't live in 1904, I wouldn't have learned anything!" We're excited to finish the series, and read the mystery series too.
These books make me so happy. Ugh.
My favorite American Girl when I was little and the only American Girl doll I had :) I loved her books and stories- particularly the era she was in. I recommend this for young girls that are just starting to get into chapter books.
I think this was the first American Girl book I ever read.
I love how Samantah is very active, has a hard time settling down and being ladylike.
I love how she has to practice piano, an hour seems like such a long time when you are 9!
Her friend Nellie just breaks my heart, and I think it is because I know there were lots of families like Nellie's who had to work so hard just to live in a one bedroom apartment.
I love the description of the clothes and the housing also!
Overall, such a cute book!
Samantha is a young girl in the early 1900s who has lost her parents and now lives with her grandmother.
Although I see why people like these books, as a teacher, I dont.
I feel that the storys are not accurate enough to give a young reader a feeling of what it might have been like to live at that time.
Although Susan Adler attempts to explain how the "other half" lived in America in the turn of the century by giving Samantha a poor friend, I think it glamorized the poor lifestyle and girls will not walk away from this book having learned anything.
Meet Samantha: An American Girl was one of my favorite books when I was a child.
I thought that the story about Samantha was very relatable and I think that young girls will feel the same way when they read the story.
I liked that Samantha met a young girl who was different from her yet never let that stop them from being friends.
I think that this book would be a good one to read with parents at home or on your own but would not be appropriate for a school book report.
I remember reading this series as a young girl and I remember thinking the books were too long and never finishing them.
I thought that the lessons are wonderful for young girls.
Nine year old Samantha is an orphan who is being raised by her wealthy grandmother.
Jessie the seamstress leaves the staff and this worries Samantha, which then leads to an adventure for her and her new friends!
Nellie a nine year old girl has become the newest member of the staff next door.
Nellie friendship also leads to adventures for Samantha.
Meet Samantha: An American Girl was a true blast from the past for me!
Meet Samantha is the first of the Samantha, American Girl series.
This book introduces Samantha as a nine year old girl living in the 1920's.
This book illustrates Samantha's everyday life and the trails she faces as a girl learning how to grow up in the 1920's.
I believe these books are extremely beneficial for children because it helps them relate to other children in different time periods.
The American Girl series is also extremely beneficial because they feature stories about girls from all different time periods and ethnicities.
I'm reading some series I loved as a child this year. I started with Charlie and the Chocolate Factory & Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator. I remember devouring these books when they came out. I'd hound the library for them. This was waaay before the dolls where a thing. I vaguely remember a pull-out send-in card in the back of one of the books, but never bothered. They hold up well. I have 5 more to go for this Girl and then I think I'm going to read Molly next. I think she was one of my favorites.
Samantha Parkington an orphan lives a privileged life with her Grandmary in a luxurious home in 1904.
But Samantha doesn't quite fit the profile.Samantha meets Nellie who works as a servant for the Ryland family and the two nine-year-olds become good friends.
Samantha soon realizes that Nellie's circumstances are quite a contrast to her own elegant life.Meet Samantha is the first book in the Samantha series."A Peak Into the Past" shares life in 1904----no refrigerators, no freezers, no vaccum cleaners and little prepared food!
People who lived in luxury depended on servants who earned little money and lived in poor conditions.
I must have read it about a dozen times as a child.
I remember being struck by the illustrations and just lost in the stories.
I think it helped that I had the Samantha doll.
But I think I liked imagining her more as a friend in the story than as a doll that I cared for.
I think this book did a great job challenging the racial and gender stereotypes of the time through a child's eyes.
Although the grandmother has all these lofty morals for Samantha, the character of Cornelia sort of balances her out.
All throughout this book, I kept wondering what was so interesting about this time (1904)in American history, but when the book ended, I realized there are going to be lot of working class and women's issues brought up in this series.
Abby really liked the developing friendship between Samantha and the neighbor's servant Nellie.
And the historical section had a lot of information about servants and how hard their lives were.
Samantha is also expected to behave like a "proper" young lady and Abby thinks it's unfair that she would get in trouble for something like climbing a tree.
Samantha, while not my favorite, was interesting.
She is also the wealthiest of all the AG, which gives her a very different outlook and lifestyle.
While Josefina, Caroline and Kaya work hard to help their families survive day-to-day, and Felicity and Kit help their families and pursue their interests, Samantha has a very different way of learning.
She has lots of personality, but less personal integrity and concern with living a worthy life than many of the other girls.
Very much so a product of her age and upbringing.
The suffrage movement, Tee-total, orphanages and the child labor in factories, influx of immigrants, etc.
In the early 1900's, Samantha is a young girl who is being raised by her wealthy and stern grandmother named, Grandmary.
Samantha doesn't have anyone to play with around the house, but loves going to her grandmother's seamstress, Jessie, for advice and repairs.
As the story unfolds she finds a herself becoming good friends with a girl named Nellie.
From their time spent together, Samantha soon sees how different her life is from Nellie's.
Samantha hears that Jessie is leaving town, so she and Nellie made a plan to figure out why and how they could stop her.
My little one and I had a fun time reading this and the illustrations were amazing. The story was very descriptive, thought provoking, and relatable for little ones.Samantha's situation in life and character is clearly introduced in the story. At nine years old, she's young and naive about somethings, but very caring about her friends and family and is not afraid to act on that.We really enjoyed reading this and learning a little more about life in 1904. I would recommend this to children ages 6-10.
My children and I enjoyed listening to this on audio. The writing style is descriptive enough for me to appreciate and simple enough for young children to understand.
I loved this book
My friend named Maya has Samantha the American girl doll and a few of her books it is so cool and crazy
i liked this book. for girls not guys. she is a fun loving girl. she lives with her grandma. she is very rich
