https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17347793-autobiography-of-mark-twain-volume-2
With the surprise success of his first volume of memoirs in 2010, Twain can now be rightfully said to be a best-seller in the 19th and 21st centuries.Like the last volume, Twain refuses to adhere to the usual order of memoirs, starting with birth and ending with death.
He speaks with kindness about Helen Keller, his black friend John Lewis, his wife, and his late daughters.If you've read Twain's other writings, there is little new in terms of any shocking beliefs.
After the continuation of wars and the death of his daughter, you can't fault him for being cynical.
Wow. Many of Twain's observations, particularly about politics and human nature, still hold true today. His sense of humor is even more playful, satirical, and sarcastic than the books he published during his lifetime because he is free to say anything he likes about anyone, knowing his words won't be published until 100 years after his death. (And kudos to the publishing world for respecting his wishes!)Anxiously awaiting volume 3.
I initially read this book over a year ago, but was not in the right place to really review it.
Mark Twain's experimentally-unorthodox autobiography is an interesting exercise where he recounts events from his past in stream-of-conciseness form.
Between volumes 1 & 2, a decade has past and certain things that he recounted in volume 1, he recalls here, but mis-remembers things.
This book also sees Twain recall the death of this daughter in great pain to him.
This book is recommended for fans of Twain, but you better be a real type-of-fan.
When Twain came up with the idea for an autobiography, it solely for the purpose of augmenting earlier works so that his family could continue to live off the royalties (at the time a book was only under copyright for 42 years from the date published).
I'm guessing these were the subjects intended to be kept from the public for 100 years.Twain's only surviving daughter Clara, who lived until 1962, had the most to lose if this stuff got out because it probably would have done harm to his literary reputation at a time when wholesome Hollywood movies were being made and his image was that of a kindly raconteur and children's author.
Logan's total obscurity today gives hope to those who believe we live in the dumbest century to date.
Once I was convinced I had the right book, I settled in for the ride.To recap, Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain) dictated his autobiography in the last years of his life with the understanding that it would not be published until 100 years after his death.
We get to hear about the big news stories of the day that have mostly been forgotten, just as he predicted.
I would love to hear his views on Facebook and Donald Trump.I did read this as an e-book and I wished at times I had the paper version as he keeps referencing things from previous pages/chapters.
Depending upon whether the reader has or has not read The Autobiography of Mark Twain--the official work of the Twain Project at University of California--or not, this volume might be one star, or it might be 5 stars.
The Twain Project spent tremendous resources and had many faithful scholars participating, and their word should have been final, yet apparently wasn't.So if the reader has read Volume 1, which takes us well into 1906, this volume is a complete waste of money.
However, now that I am satisfied that I will not have missed too much of importance, I can proceed to Volume 3, for which the Twain Project at UC has permitted me to access the galley.
Where to even begin - how dare I review a Titan of literature?
With this second volume, I am reminded of how important Twain is: he innovated the written word at a key time in world history, let alone American development.
His wit shines through even brighter in this one, less careful, more bite.
And some of it is absolutely timeless "The political & commercial morals of the US aren't merely food for laughter, they're a banquet" 30 Jan 1907This is one to keep and flip backwards and forwards.
I am invigorated by writers who produce fantastic stories, fantastic nonfiction narratives, then leave us a personal guidebook through all of it: see Isherwood, et.
Listening to Mark Twain's autobiography is like having a sassy dead friend who likes to dish the dirt with a wicked sense of humor.
I read Volume 1 extremely fast; I struggled to get through Volume 2. It was no doubt my fault, and Samuel L. cannot be blamed.
In our secret hearts we have no hesitation in proclaiming as an unthinking fool anybody who thinks he believes that he is by any possibility capable of committing a sin against God—or who thinks he thinks he is under obligations to God and owes Him thanks, reverence, and worship."Israel Drazin summaries Twain's view of man (http://booksnthoughts.com/the-very-st...
People learn what they learn from outside, and are compelled by their nature to do what they have absorbed no matter what its source, like a machine: “From his cradle to his grave a man never does a single thing which has any FIRST AND FOREMOST object but one – to secure peace of mind, spiritual comfort, for HIMSELF….
There were also plenty of times throughout where I laughed at the audacity of Twain’s writing.
He could go along boring the reader on purpose for paragraphs at a time to get in a line that just killed.The three volume Autobiography , where this is book 2, includes Twain’s writings that he didn’t want people to see for 100 years after his death.
The first book didn’t have much of that, but Twain mentions it quite a few times in this volume.
Oh well, it’s always good to read humorous Twain, even if, like in this volume, you have to pick through his castoffs to get there.
IF HOWEVER you loved the earlier book, loved the fact it was pure Twain: disjointed and rambling, had no problem with the small font size or large book size, found the notes interesting and helpful, then you'll be utterly delighted to find this is more of the same, I think it goes without saying I fall into the latter camp, this book is just wonderful and I wait with eagerness and sadness for volume three (hopefully by the end of 2015) for that will be the last volume, the end of what is presumably the last major unpublished work of Mark Twain.
At it's simplest level the book is "Mark Twain's thoughts for the day" he talks about whatever he feels like sometimes conventionally autobiographically, more often not.
I suppose publishers provide the costly stuff of books: paper, ink machines to print, advertising, however it was interesting to learn that of Twain's most recognized work, he didn't make much money on one of them.
It was interesting hearing how he published General Grant's memoirs, making sure his heirs got a great portion of the money made from the book.
Several times, he states the book is to be published after the people he mentions in the book are dead.It was interesting to hear him talk (Audiobook) of testifying to Congress about extending the copyrights from 42 years to the authors life plus fifty years.
Over the past three months I've listened to both volumes of the Autobiography of Mark Twain.
Twain decreed his autobiography would not be published for one hundred years after his death.
He talks a great deal about his wife and children and you get to know them in a special way.
All utterly fascinating.The reader of both volumes, Grover Gardner, has won numerous awards for his reading, and while listening you cannot help but believe that you are listening to Mark Twain himself.
I am yearning for volume three now, hopefully to be published in the coming year.
In the meantime I will be listening to these first two volumes again.
This book is the second volume of the authoritative edition of the autobiography of Mark Twain.
This volume follows in the same path of the first volume and is full of various stories, humor, social satire, and commentary.
There is much enjoyable here and the book is most interesting as a commentary on American and world affairs in the decade before WWI.
I certainly defer to Mr. Twain about his disinclinatioln to produce a traditional life story.
I also grant that such a story would not be fully honest and unbiased.
Overall, the book was enjoyable and well worth the effort.
Not bad for a second volume.
Twains decision to dictate his biography by what occured to him at the time makes for a pretty disjointed and meandering book.
Even the stuff I wasn't interested in was written well, Twain is (unsurprisingly) a great writer, but for myself the lack of structure killed my will to continue with the book.
If you are a Twain completist with a knowledge of his life this book will probably work for you.
I'll go back to Twain's complete books but would only try a heavily edited, ordered and introduced version of this work.
From the fall of 1906 through the end of 1907 he dictated almost daily to an able stenographer and in the presence of his official biographer the mass of literary material that now goes under the name of Autobiography of Mark Twain.
Just from the standpoint of reading, as opposed to doing research, the critical edition suffers more than previous versions of the text by including all the surviving autobiographical manuscripts, meaning that some stories get told several times in different decades – for example, Twain’s various meetings with Ulysses S.
This is a “3-m-er”: Magnificent, a Masterpiece, a Must read for every fan of Mark Twain.
Stipulating that publication of his autobiography must wait for a 100 years following his death, Mark Twain offers up a free wheeling spin through his life in a non chronological manner.There are poignant snapshots of his wife, daughters (especially Susie), and others that are sometimes heart wrenching.
There are also some savage criticisms of others whom Twain disliked (Bret Harte, some of his publishers, a Senator Clark of Montana), all of whom would be long dead when his remarks were published.
Not as good as Volume I. There are some gems, but too few to offset all of the venting of spleen that Twain does, settling old scores, etc., and the many tedious passages. Twain makes much of his preferred method of writing autobiography, which is to let the news of the day and chance meetings and reflections prompt thoughts about his past, which he then includes in random order. This may have been a more enjoyable way for him to write about his life, but this reader would have preferred a more straightforward approach.
Vol one won me over; both to Twain's autobiographical style and the audio rendition. The reader seemed to me to capture the spirit of the book and Twain of course is Twain. I enjoy his humor, social commentary, personal commentary.
A lot of this volume was not auto-biographical. Much of the non auto-biographical material involves his current event 1906-o7. Usually interesting, but still I prefer the autobiographical material.
Very repetitious of both the first book and of itself.
Review title: Twain twiceWhen we last encountered Mr. Clements in volume 1 he was lounging about in his signature white suit dictating his "autobiography"--which was a rambling un-chronological stroll through whatever popped into his fertile mind that particular day.
LIke his younger contemporary Dickens as one of the few authors of his time whose works seemed likely to become classics that would continue to be published and sold at a profit for the author's lifetime and beyond, extending the copyright was a vital cause for Twain.
Another serious discussion that recurs throughout the book is Twain's theory of cause and effect (p.
This is the second of three volumes to be published of the Complete and Authoritative Edition of Mark Twain's massive biography, and like the first, it is worth the commitment.
Mark Twain designed a unique technique for his biography; he abandoned chronological order, and simply told stories from his life and work as they popped into his head, in no particular order.
As such, this biography is very much like sitting down with an old Mark Twain and listening to him tell stories of his life.
If you are a fan of Mark Twain, you should not miss this unique autobiography, much of which has never been published before.
It's easy to envy Mr. Twain the charm and volubility that won him friends the world over; the adventurousness that alternately earned and cost him small fortunes; and the credulity and generosity which were often abused by unscrupulous business associates and acquaintances.
These extemporaneous recollections and observations are literature themselves, and recognizably Twain.
Of course this book is probably suited more for the Mark Twain completist than the casual reader, but I do think there's a lot of substance--philosophy, pathos, humor and history--that could be entertaining and instructive for anyone.
It is a little more than slightly unbelievable that this autobiography was released a 100 years after Mark Twain's death - for more than one reason and for very different reasons.
Secondly, and most shocking, is the content of the book and the author's thoughts are so relevant today.
His rationale - as it is throughout the book - is a masters class on deductive reasoning, but most notably could also be said about the human race if this really is 100 year old writing.
His thoughts on public versus private mindsets and on the federal government are notions we deal with in a nearly identical manner today.
I love that this book was written in 1906 but Twain's dry wit and observational humor is so modern.
He wrote with particular venom about the denunciation of Huck Finn by self-proclaimed Christians, who criticized it for its "low morality." Surprisingly for me, that book continued to be censored in various parts of the country well into the late 1800s.
Thankfully Bret Harte was long dead before this was published because Twain thoroughly trashes him.
Twain wasn't perfect and he casually uses terms we would consider racist today.
It would be wrong to say that Volume 2 is a continuation of Volume 1, as Twain’s autobiography is not chronological.
Twain decided to dictate his autobiography, and if his fancy took in to a non-chronological tangent he did not hesitate.
This also helps the book to read like fiction – just another interesting story from a master.I am entirely biased in this review since Twain is one of my favorite dead people.
Now that everyone who Twain knew and the direct progeny of everyone he knew are in similar health – all dead -- frank talk can not harm any Twain's contemporaries or their children.Great read.
I love reading Twain's comments on things that happened over an hundred years ago.
But dear word, the man sure does ramble.I found it better to have this be a "pick up/ put down" sort of book.
It took me 4 months to read because going through several hundred pages of "Here's what I think today" can be a bit much.That being said, what he does say, he says well.
Stories that would never be made into a book get to hog a page or two in his ramblings.If you want Twain's charm, you will find it here in droves.
TR everything to be and not, Charles Webster assfull and debt, gorgeous forgiving, as a mirror, gene
