https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294285.Communion
This book was stupider than a circular firing squad.
On vacation in Martha's Vineyard, this book had me screaming in my sleep, nightly. My sleeping companion disliked being awoken in this manner in the dead of night. I had to stop reading it until the vacation was over. Shall we say it touched a nerve...
Without giving a spoiler I will say that the most beautiful and thoughtful thing about this book and his reaction to his experiences is this: while most UFO/ abduction/ ET studies look to the skies and obsess over government cover-ups for discovery and understanding, Strieber looks more often to the uncharted hallways of the human soul.
This book is at times frightening, haunting, mysterious, insightful but always deeply thoughtful and illuminated with a great sense of exploration led by his bold and creative mind.
My own mind is still haunted and illuminated by many of the scenes and ideas in this book.
This skepticism was reinforced shortly thereafter by the reading of a review of the book by science fiction writer Samuel Delany in The Nation.
In consequence, I began to look for and read Strieber's novels, planning to obtain Communion after getting a sense of the workings of his imagination.Now, having read at least five of Streiber's science fiction and horror books, now, many years later, I have finally obtained a copy of Communion thanks to the generosity of my stepbrother's girlfriend.It's better than the movie in which Streiber was played by Christopher Walken.
The location given, was directly over my nephew's neighborhood.He still insists to this day, as a 40+ father of three children, that something odd happened that night.So when I read Communion, I did so with an open mind and a small vested interest.
Even the biggest doubting Thomas would be hard pushed to explain some of Streiber's experiences - without calling him an out & out liar.Even for non-believers, if you simply treat this as a good read, it is an incredible, powerful and sometimes uncomfortable story."Communion is one man's gripping story of repeated contact with apparent aliens or visitors.
I spotted them and then asked mom if she saw it too, and she did.(The first one was near the cliffs (actually hiding above them at times) outside of Warm Springs, Oregon on a clear blue sky day.
The radio station announced he was getting quite a few calls reporting the same sighting we saw!) The 3rd (and thankfully the last) UFO that I saw hovered above my head (slightly above the 40' oak tree that I was standing next too!
Then around 1990, I happened to work with a young girl who was actually living in the same house (104 May Ave.) that I did when I saw the 3rd UFO!
I am almost tired of people reading this book expecting it to be 100% biographical in nature.
I always read it taking the visitors out of the equation and looking at Streibers subsequent examination of himself, and his life.
I also believe it is wrong for anyone to claim it to be total B.S., as we have to face the one fact; we can not prove it to be true or false.
This is the underlining problem for the hardcore believers, as well as the hardcore skeptics.
It is no more believable than the Bible.
Either you believe or you don't.
Sometimes you read a book that changes your life.
Was it a change for the better or worse I almost hear you cry?I don't knowI read this book many years ago at the tender age of 21.
I don't know...is there a coverup/ a pattern of ridicule or denial - YESI think you should read this book with a hefty pinch o salt and an equally open mind...maybe you will remember something too
Did aliens abduct Whitley Streiber in 1984?
It starts off with Whitley's two abduction stories.
These stories are really spooky, I read this part late at night and then didn't want to turn the lights off.
(The effect is similar to reading the Teachings of Don Juan.) However the book gets more and more unbelievable as it goes on however.
As the book progresses the author goes under hypnosis to recover memories of his abduction and begins to remember more and more supposed encounters with the aliens, which get weirder and weirder.
Τα δυο προηγούμενα βιβλία ήταν μυθιστορήματα, αυτό που μόλις τελείωσα υποτίθεται ότι είναι αληθινή ιστορία, με τον συγγραφέα να περιγράφει τις εμπειρίες του από τις επαφές του με άγνωστα και παράξενα όντα, εξωγήινης προέλευσης.
Σαν βιβλίο έχει το ενδιαφέρον του, αν δεν πιστεύετε ότι οι εμπειρίες που περιγράφει ο Στρίμπερ είναι αληθινές, μπορείτε κάλλιστα να το διαβάσετε σαν ένα μυθιστόρημα του Φανταστικού, με στοιχεία τρόμου και επιστημονικής φαντασίας.
One "proof" comes in the form of hypnosis (completely disregarding scientific evidence which demonstrates that false "memories" are easily and routinely introduced into the minds of hypnotized subjects specifically from childhood).
The author also ignores that in several of the hypnotized sessions a third person, Budd Hopkins, was allowed to sit in and question the subject.
The discussion in the meeting ultimately revolves around the sad lives of a few isolated souls and a strange cross in "cold reading" devices such as when the question is put forth, "Why was there such a lack of personality in these visitors?" Answer: "Oh I definitely felt that.
This book scared the pants off me when I was ten.
This book totally freaked me out, and I couldn't finish it. When I read it I was living in Austin which is where Whitley Streiber was living when he claims these events happened. I woke up in the middle of the night for weeks seeing aliens in my bedroom.
Regardless of your personal beliefs about aliens, this book is well written, well paced and quite riveting. Spooky.
Overall I thought this was a compelling read.
If you take what he writes to be true, then this is a pretty scary book.
After reading his descriptions, hypnosis transcripts and polygraph results, I'm definitely convinced that something happened to him and his family.
Where the book lost me was in the odd discussions of ancient gods and reports of "visitors" throughout the ages, and some of the claims from the colloquy of abductees.
But some of these claims...
No. It got kind of ridiculous at the end of this book.
Beautiful. The philosophical bent toward the end is something to behold.
Had to read this one because I usually seek out the ones that combine the idea of fae and religion and UFOs, and I thought this was the nuts-and-bolts aliens type of book.It's not.
And I couldn't believe that it just seems like everything I've ever heard about this book completely ignored that and made him sound like a dude bellowing about aliens from outer space.His take on the possibility of it all being in his head was the most interesting theory he mused about, too.
Musing on it myself.Now, I was glad to find out this book wasn't what I had thought it was, and it was an interesting read.
He also offered several different possibilities for his experiences, but when it came down to it...I liked reading this twenty-six years after it was published, because it makes things like the "visitors" trying to help mankind because of the ozone hole a little bit discredited.
The way that they have a "hive mind" and the similar jumpsuits, and even the asiatic looks of the visitors can all seem to be projected fears of communism during the Cold War. More telling is the fact that most sightings and experiences have occurred at the rise of communism.
I will reiterate that the conjecture in regards to the (alleged) spiritual nature of Strieber's encounters was annoying enough to affect my overall reading of the book in a way that is decidedly negative.[EDIT]: Another thing I forgot to point out was that on Strieber's Dreamland podcast, he claims to have had just about every alien/UFO experience you can imagine, as if to continually one-up himself, and that obviously leads you to question the guy's credibility and motives.
Whitley Strieber is B-level horror and sf author and has been for many years before and after "the event." Communion is an extremely frightening and exciting novel.
My main example, is Whitley's insistence that the aliens left a mark on his ear, that no matter how many times he tries to have it removed simply grows right back.
Look, if all this had happened to Whitley and he had spent the time and money to novelize five or six books on the topic, why did he never offer to go on National television and have the a panel of independent medical experts examine his alien implant.
A very thought-provoking journal of not only Whitley's experiences, but the insights these gave him.
I thought it was interesting how a bunch of the reading I've done recently kind of led up to this.
For instance, Whitley mentioned Irish Fairy Tales to describe how the 'visitors' may have been viewed in earlier times, Also, the visitors warned Whitley about the hole in the ozone layer, and how the UV light would suppress immune systems, and according to him, this was not known when he was informed of it, but sure enough the global warming books I've been reading that came out in the last decade mention this.
There's even some Kabbalah in there; when the visitors are questioned about god's role as creator, they reply that god is continuously creating the universe at every moment.
I read this book with the thought that it might be interesting because there is a film based on the book.
I also felt that perhaps it was a tale that had been woven of partial truths.
Some readers may not rate this book quite as high.
After all it's not a work of literary genius but it kept me glued to the story and most of all I rated 5 stars because I think folks should take notice of this story!
I've also found myself re-reading this book time and again just to test my senses.
Recently I finished it a second time.
I believe Strieber's tale.
This book gave me nightmares for years!
I had to keep the book hidden under my bed because the picture on the cover scared me.
The part about the white owls looking in his bedroom window and the white deer on the side of the road haunt me years later.
I don't know what to make of this "true" account, but if aliens are really abducting people at night, there is no sense in worrying about it--you have no control.
I am curious if he is still being abducted?
Has he told the aliens about his books?
Probably the best first hand account (with supplemental information for fact-checking) of the author's encounters with a UFO and with missing time. The author is also a fiction writer, so the book reads like a thriller. There's nothing definitive here. Instead, it allows the reader to step into the mindset of someone experiencing something they don't understand. There fear is palpable as he describes his family's incidents-- invasive and disorienting, one can understand the paranoia that ensues.
Being an astronomy fan myself, I often encounter the issue of UFO sightings and abductions in my readings. It seems that once you begin to discuss the cosmos, little green men have to enter the equation. Even though I really have no opinion on such things I thought it necessary to at least have read this very often referred to account of an abductee. My thoughts: once you've read this, you need not read any other abductee story because this defines the 'stereotype'.
Not badly written and some happenings have traces of suspense, but the author's insistence that these are true events brings down readability. Still, if you are curious, this is the one to read. Later books have less story and more ramblings.
It’s intriguing and scary enough to read about the encounter/abduction from a first person perspective, to know what the visitors look like, sound like, smell like, and what they do to people and their family.
And then Whitley starts talking about his previous “dreams” or his experiences of the “missing time” when he was young (don’t get me wrong for this bit it confused me so much that I even went back on goodreads to check whether I’m reading a fiction or non-fiction because that’s how ridiculous it sounds).
This book has many compelling and eye-opening testimonies regarding the visitor experience, but a large portion of the ideas used to analyze the experiences are unsubstantiated or simply self-aggrandizing. Nevertheless, if you're interested in UFO and visitor phenomena, this is a must read!
This book scared the you-know-what out of me, gave me nightmares, and generally freaked me out for awhile. I loved it!
Okay, wow...Wtf?Seriously?
Are there people who genuinely believe that aliens are visiting earth, kidnapping people and experimenting anally upon them?
I guess there are.I went into this book open-minded because it is kinda fascinating, I was a huge X-Files fan, and to be honest it's a nice distraction from the lights going out all across the civilized world at the moment.
Alien abduction?
Bring it on.
But this is just beyond ludicrous.
Not as exciting, I agree, no anal probing (which is always a shame) but a little less loony.
