https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41016873-full-catastrophe-living
I read this book as part of my "get rid of psorisis in 2009" campaign.
In my research, I read about a study where patients undergoing UV treatment for psorisis who listened to the body scan meditation associated with this book showed more improvement than patients who didn't.
I'm not undergoing UV treatment, but I thought it couldn't hurt to see what this book has to say.
It is a pain to make time every day for "the practice" but by week four, three people asked me if I'd been on vacation lately.
I don't think I've ever read a self-help book in my life, but within four weeks I had read three.
After some online research I settled on Kabat-Zinn's Guided Mindfulness Meditation and this accompanying book.
But plenty of the book does, and it helped give me patience when I felt I was progressing too slowly with the meditation.For most of October and November I meditated at least three times a week for 45 minutes at a time.
Now I breathe with my diaphragm, which tends to put me at ease and keep me more clear-minded.The book is about being observant as much as it is about meditation.
I also had serious problems with that nonsense he was spouting about headaches and medicine.
Unlike Dr. Weil, this guy appears to be anti-medicine of all sorts and recommends "being aware" of your headache and "letting your mind figure out what is causing it." WTF???
It's not because of Jesus; it's because of modern medicine and medications.I think Dr. Weil takes a MUCH more level-headed approach to this subject.
- but only in CONJUNCTION with traditional medicine.
Not only do I seriously not have the time but I do that while trying to fall asleep…which I recommend as preferable to reading this book.
The upside was that the book really articulated the incredible powerful of mindfulness and awareness in a wide range of contexts; whether you are a chronic pain sufferer looking for some way to manage or whether you are looking for a way to make the world a better place.
Kabat-Zinn did a great job of describing the power of mindfulness in these contexts.I think this book could have been broken into several books: mindfulness and chronic illness, mindfulness and mental health, mindfulness and environmentalism, mindful diet and eating and so on.
And the book aims to both be a cheerleader and meditation guru in one, with chapter after chapter carefully delineating every conceivable type of stress we go through in modern living, providing calm explanations of how meditation can help, and then providing a variety of mindful exercises.But.The book was written in 1991 and although it's clearly been revised a few times since, I think it actually needs a substantive overhaul.
The book gives you a chance to simulate the 8-week program that was held regularly at a stress clinic in Massachusetts.
Exercises include a body scan, gentle yoga, following the breath, and sitting meditation.
It mostly consists of paying attention to your breath and your body.) I especially appreciate the author's gentle approach and reminders throughout the book that you're not trying to "get somewhere." The mindfulness approach emphasizes non-doing, so you're not trying to accomplish anything.
You succeed simply by doing the exercises consistently and remembering to bring more mindfulness to your activities throughout the day.
Great content, less impressive presentationJon Kabat Zinn's Full Catastrophe Living is one of the most recommended mindfulness books out there.
In a way, reading the book should be done like a mindfulness exercise: Just focus on the current page and don't crave to finish the book any time soon, because it won't happen.
In the end, it took me 3 months to read the book.Full Catastrophe Living is centered around an 8-week stress reduction program.
Following Jon Kabat-Zinn's instructions can be truly beneficial, and Full Catastrophe Living is a very good crash course on mindfulness, yoga and meditation.
Case studies are included on people who suffer (sometimes horribly) from a wide range of health issues.
Anything from just stress, to panic attacks, to heart disease...If you're going to go down this path it takes some effort.
I recommend you do a bit of research before jumping right in if you want to participate in the program.
If you're frustrated (and at your wits end, possibly suffering) from any health or life issue you might want to check out mindfulness or just other forms of mediation, or some forms of yoga.
It's alternative medicine at its best from a book.
Takes a bit of effort on your part though.
The material is excellent, but probably could have been presented in half the number of pages.
So it was a bit tedious to read cover to cover, but the organization doesn't really support just dipping in and covering specific chapters.I also found it a little odd to be told (over and over) to practice meditation without any goals, then be regaled with lots of tales of people experiencing great outcomes, followed by warnings that we shouldn't expect anything ourselves, but that *probably* we'll experience results within the beginning eight weeks, but we must always practice without goals.
Amazing book!
I've read several books on mindfulness and meditation over the years, but none of them were actually practical.
This book explains clearly not only the reasons why you should train yourself to practice mindfulness but also how to do it.
If you can't practically travel to his center weekly for 8 weeks, you can certainly follow along with his instructions in this book.
I have personally benefited from following this program through the depths of my own illness, and I hope one day to get well enough to lead many patients to this amazing tool.
Tak teď dávejte pozor.
Slyšeli jste?
Pozor?
Ano, kniha, která nám odhalí tu krutou pravdu, kterou ta hromádka lidí kupujících svépomocné příručky o životním štěstí už asi tuší: něco je s námi špatně.
Jenže tohle není beletrie typu Don Miguel Ruiz zvěstující hezkou budoucnost za pomocí 4 dohod, atd.
Tohle je příručka pro tvrdý trénink.
A ano, už se k tomu dostávám: pozornosti.
Vůči přítomnému okamžiku.
Máte odvahu být 8 týdnů pozorný a zbavit se našich autopilotů, se kterými lítáme ze stanice minulost do destinace minulost, ale o to hlavní, co máme teď, přicházíme?
Tak si pořiďte tuto knihu.
This was a long 600 page journey filled with such wisdom. Jon Kabat-Zinn's words are divine. He beautifully describes the magic of mindful living and how this greatly benefits those living with chronic illness, pain and stress. He goes into great detail about the mindfulness stress reduction program and includes many stories of success from past participants. I've noticed big shifts in my own life since I started reading this one. I highly recommend this to anyone dealing with chronic pain and/or illness.
My therapist recommended this book to me and it was SO SO SO helpful.
This is the book that got me started on a mindfulness meditation practice.
And, even though Kabat-Zinn says it's not at all essential and I've been practicing on my own, I do believe a continuing weekly meditation &/or yoga class is beneficial in being able to continue a regular practice indefinitely.
Kabat-Zinn is a master at making meditation accessible and appealing for people like me who aren’t Buddhist or religious/spiritual.I’d read the author’s Wherever You Go There You Are when it was first published, but read the 15th anniversary edition of this book in 2007.
Life can be crazy and hectic. It seems like there are never enough hours in the day and that 'To Do' list grows ever longer. So it sounds pretty crazy to dedicate 45 minutes of an overly scheduled day to yoga and meditation. But Kabat-Zinn gives compelling evidence that we really do need to clear our minds, not only for our sanity, but for our physical well being. I am convinced that he is right. But, still have not incorporated either into my life... Another thing to add to that To Do list.
Drags at times because it's just so long, but the lessons are invaluable. This was totally indispensable when I became seriously ill. And really, although he's pretty wordy, Jon Kabat-Zinn's special combination of kindness and rationality shine through.
Ir man tāda atmiņa, kā es, filozofos mācoties, priekšvārdus darbiem lasīju. Nedaudz līdzīga sajūta ir klausoties grāmatu "abridged" audio versijā - saturs jau ir, idejas arī, tik dziļuma trūkst. Daudz ko var iegūt, un neiegūtais tā arī paliek neuzzināts. Tomēr nekad nevajag novērtēt par zemu "priekšvārdus" - ar nelielu devu fantāzijas var patiesi bagātināties. Šoreiz gūta reāla iedvesma praksei. 8 nedēļām.
You will need that time and that energy to wade through all the opinions and reflections of the author.As a mental health counselor the best part of this book for me is how it discusses the therapeutic benefit of mindfulness.
The first part of the book is specifically about the process of mindfulness based stress reduction (MBSR) and can be useful for any therapist looking to learn more about how mindfulness works in practice and how it might help people who are struggling.
“This is the path of insight, of wisdom, and of healing. It is the path of acceptance and peace. It is the path of the mind-body looking deeply into itself and knowing itself. It is the art of conscious living, of knowing your inner resources and your outer resources and knowing also that, fundamentally, there is neither inner nor outer. It is profoundly ethical”  “Full Catastrophe Living – Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness” by Jon Kabat-Zinn (Emeritus Pr
“Full Catastrophe Living – Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness” by Jon Kabat-Zinn (Emeritus Professor of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School) reveals the reader the constituents and theories/scientific-basis of the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) program that was run for nearly 40 years at the University of Massachusetts Medical Centre.
Even more, to introduce the essence of the MBSR program to the individuals seeking healing/benefits, it only requires 8-weeks of attendance/commitment at the MBSR clinic, after which they are expected to carry out the practices on their own to benefit in an ongoing manner.Interestingly, the author, Professor Kabat-Zinn has analysed and categorised what is commonly termed as “stress” into some insightful constituents such as “work stress”, “time stress”, “people stress”, “sleep stress” and “world stress”, to name some.
Some of the information helped me to overcome some of the blocks I've formed and approach in a different way.I will admit that the title initially made me wary -- not one I wanted to be reading in public, but in the intro, the author relates the story behind it:In groping to describe that aspect of human condition that patients in the stress clinic and, in fact, most of us, at one time or another, need to come to terms with and in some way transcend, I keep coming back to one line from the movie of Nikos Kazantzakis;s novel Zorba the Greek.
Zorba's young companion turns to him at a certain point and inquires, "Zorba, have you ever been married?" to which Zorba replies (paraphrasing somewhat) "Am I not a man?
Of course I've been married.
I'm not sure what I'm actually reviewing -- the format and the way the information is presented, or the information itself.
There are parts that seem long-winded or excessively Buddhist for a book that is trying to explain mindfulness in a secular way, but that didn't bother me much.
There are chapters that didn't have much relevance to me, but you don't need to read the book cover-to-cover like I did -- you can pick out what's meaningful for you.
Full Catastrophe Living has been life-changing for me, but as a book I have to say that I only just *like* it.
smart, excellent review of the ways in which mindfulness better your life, can reduce stress and pain.
I found it a little long and repetitive for a 15th edition, but that might also be because i've gotten most of the good stuff through his other writings/audiobooks/other authors.
i didn't like how often he used the word "meditation", for true mindfulness isn't meditation at all, but a way of living.
this is the bible of MBCBT, and of his stress-reduction clinic, so it's definitely worth the read.
but it's still quite good.
This book was recommended to me by a friend who heard me yammering about yoga and psychology (and cetera) after my India trip two years ago...and I am finally getting around to it! I'm pleasantly surprised to discover that instead of the schmaltzy bullshit with the accompanying subway ad, such as one might expect from the burgeoning self-help industry, this is a serious book. Zinn is an *actual* doctor, writing about methods and results garnered from his practice. His straightforward, mysticism-free insights, are disarmingly good.
Update: It's been long enough since I read this book that I've forgotten everything except that I thought it could be summarized in one chapter. Commenters here universally agree that I've gotten it all wrong, and I'm sure they know the book better than I do, so I've removed my rating and remarks. If I ever reread this one (doubtful...), I'll revisit it. My apologies to the author for misrepresenting his work.
This book probably saved my life. It was given to me by a friend all those years ago when I was battling cancer and was my introduction to Mindfullness Meditation. I learned that one can be happy in the moment, no matter what the circumstances. And life is best lived one moment at a time. I believe this must be how my parents-in-law survived their time in the Naze concentration camps.
I am a huge proponent of mindfulness, but felt this book needed a strong editor. I found many parts of it highly repetitive.
finished the Audio book
The other reason the book needed an update was the change in the nature of stress and distraction since its first publication.
I’ve never done that, having studied yoga and meditation with live teachers and developed a daily practice, but as one of my yoga students was saying after class the other evening, it reduces her stress to have someone else guide her.
There are beautifully written instructions for meditation in this book, and some wonderful short experiments a reader can do to begin exploring the practice.
I've read several previous books on meditation, but this gives more concrete examples of application and benefit than most. I wish there had been additional CD's from which to practice, but that's a separate "book".
So far so good.
