https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180239.How_I_Made_2_000_000_In_The_Stock_Market
I’d wanted to read this stock market classic for a long time but it is notoriously hard to find.
And he chronicles his progress, all the mistakes he made along the way, where his thinking went wrong, and how he eventually developed his own theory which made him $2 million in 18 months, starting with a stake of less than $25,000.Darvas got involved in the stock market quite by accident.
He got the shares and forgot about them until he noticed two months later that the stock was up to $1.90.
Darvus takes us on a fast paced ride through the relatively short time that it took him to evolve from an absolute novice to someone who made $2M in the market.
The downside of his writing style and content length is that I took this book as more of a entertaining personal reflection rather than something that can be used fro immediate application to trading.
This is due to the fact that he writes really brief and doesn't spend much time explaining how he identifies certain trends etc.If you're after a quick paced biographical account of a trader over a relatively short period of time then this book is well worth the read.
This book was recommended online as a good book for any novice traders/investors.
This was a tale of a not so sophisticated investing who created a basic system to help him wisely invest his money to a level of 2 million.
The biggest thing I took from this book was the importance of a stop loss order when in any trade.
It was an easy read and I think worth the read for anyone who is investing or trading.
Nothing that will help you take your skills to the next level but a good read for a tale of a journey that any trader / investor will have to take.
کتابی بسیار جالب با قابلیت درک آسان. هم برای افرادی مناسب است که تاکنون در خصوص بورس مطالعه نداشته اند و هم برای تازه کاران مناسب است. ترجمه کتاب هم عالیست.
I was studying for the CPA exam at a local Starbucks. I met an old man who had a bag of books. The old man is a retired accounting & finance professor at Pepperdine University. He had his kindle with him and I was picking his favorite useful books. He marked this one as one of the must reads. So far, I have made only few hundred bucks speculating and buying derivatives. I have to read 200 more books about investing. This is just the beginning. Good luck and enjoy!
Probably the most honest and candid book I have read till date about stock market. The revelations are honest and clear.
Lacks technical stuff.
Darvas’ classic text explains his unique experiences in the American stock market in the 1950s.
He explains in very readable terms how he made a small fortune in a relatively short period of time.
He explains a simple approach, now known as the Darvas Box for entering and exiting the market.
First, his method and results are subject to the state of the US stock market during the 1950s.
Second, by implication, his method will only work well for trending markets, and should not be seen as a universal approach for all markets.
As I finish this short, entertaining and astonishing self account of Nicolas Darvas career, I am lost for words...
Nicolas Darvas was an ordinary 'dancer' who in early 1950s received a payment for his dancing acts in company's stocks.
This stock worth $3000 at the time turned into $10000 a few month later spiking the interest in the financial markets for Nicolas.This book entails Nicolas journey of failure, struggle and ultimately legendary success where he makes over $2000000 in course of 6.5 years.
If you have any interest in Trend Following, this is what made Nicolas so successful.
As a part of a self imposed project to review 50 books in Finance, I read this book.
Even though the book was well written, the message was too simple and can be expressed in four of five sentences.
While everyone know these rules, none bother to follow them.
That is the strength of this book since it demonstrates to you that by following simple, common sense rules one can make significant amount of money in Stock Market.
I liked the way Mr.Darvas compares stocks to people.
Other stocks are sedate and almost bovine.
You can read my complete review of the book here.
This was a great book by Darvas. Unlike most stock related books, this is written in a story driven manner. It is easy to follow and outlines the highs and lows of his life. It provides good insight into his philosophy of trading, techno-fundamentalist, and his attitude towards the market. Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed his book and will be taking certain aspects of his strategy but it looks like the same strategy would not translate well in the 21st century.Pros:Concise and easy to readProvides actionable tipsAchievable results (started with small capital)Cons:He was investing in a bull-marketProvides little fundamental analysis
When I started Reading Nicolas Darvas's book I was expecting to learn something but I ended up learning something else.
He tried different strategies until he found the one which started working for him.
He made $2 million dollars in less than 2 years.
However, he spent 5 years to arrive at his method.
The book is easy to understand and his method looks simple on paper, but would not be so easy to follow.
The biggest lesson was that you have to be consistent in your investment strategy and try to keep things simple.
For those unfamiliar or uninterested with trading (opposed to investment) this book will most likely not appeal to you. However active traders (novice's or otherwise) will not want to put the book down. Nicolas goes through every mistake necessary to build his trading technique that would make his fortune, every emotional roller coaster ride that are the irrational markets today as they were in his time. He builds discipline and learns from his errors on his road to riches. Awesome read.
A fascinating read! Darvas takes you on his journey to stock market wealth. A novice, he learns by his mistakes and develops his own theory for investing. As he does not have any previous training on financial markets, he does not have any biases and that is why he could be so successful with his own unique method. One disappointing thing is that the book does not explain his method in detail.
اسم کتاب
Simple, fun, and an informative read. You won't learn everything you need to know about the stock market through this book, but you'll learn some things and have a very entertaining read while you do it.
A must read if not for the knowledge, then for the beautiful narration. Though the method Nicolas recommends cannot be implemented in toto for the Indian markets, he manages to put in some extremely good insights. A book to read for sure.
It was very (very) interesting to get into the mind of the man who walked the road of making $2mln from trading, and view this experience through his eyes. Opened my mind to viewing & approaching markets in a completely different light. Grateful. A book to be read, and re-read.
An easy and fun reading Nice reading about how to invest the markets without being influenced by the media. I would highly recommend to everyone regardless the years of experience you may have.
Basic technical analysis. He added Earnings growth to his analysis.
This was an odd book, about a lot of what not to do.
An older take on the market but very easy to read narrative of one man's journey in investing.
Great Trading Bookprice and volume. 52 Highs and Lows. Volume - increasing, spikes, and low readings are all you really need to trade.
good read that explains how volatile trading can be. I made it through the half of the book and then was overwhelmed with so many details of trades; was somewhat hard to keep concentration going.
Great book on building a system and sticking to it, ignoring everything else.
Easy to read and great motivator to get back my focus on IBD investing back .
Erm. I need to read this again and take notes.
Great story.Wisdom is to use both technical and fundamental analysis together and pitch stocks.
Got bored in the middle.
