https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401921.The_Black_Rose
I am so lame.I loved this book as a teenager.
When I was young, there were two choices for young girls in historical fiction: books written in the 1950's and bodice rippers.
After I graduated, well let's just say I graduated.I read every book by Thomas Costain that I could get my hands on.
This one I loved.
And I cried every time I came to the part where Maryam is crying out: "Walter.
London." It seemed so impossibly romantic to me.
That's kind of why I love movies from the 1950's.
Anyway, this book is very dated.
London.
London.
Walter.
Walter.
Walter.
London"It gets me every time.
The main character of this story travels from the old world of Great Britain, where he is mocked and labeled a bastard son of a wealthy and titled Lord, to the magical and mystical far east, where he is able to earn his worth as a man and experience the strange and unfamiliar ways of lands not even mapped out yet.
Not only is it incredibly well written but it has the magical power of a great book, which is the power to stay in the readers imagination forever.
Constain's greatest novel ever written and I would whole heartedly reccomend this book to anyone who loves a good adventure story.
Please don't tell me that you've seen the movie and because it sucked, you're not going to read the book. The book is WAY better than the movie. Superlatives all around, please. Set in 1272, it tells the story of Walter of Gurnie and his trip to the Orient. Romance, action, comedy--but best of all, the writing is top notch. A timeless classic.
Thomas Costain takes the reader on a 13th century journey from England to China.
The book's main character, Walter inherits a large sum of money in London and sets off to China inspired by Francis Bacon.
In addition to the journey, Walter loves two women, one a noble and beautiful English woman and the other, a beautiful and beguiling woman Walter meets on his journey.Unfortunately, it seems that Thomas Costain books are almost out of print.
These books provide a good historical foundation for young students.
It does not hurt that this author can spin a good tale too.
Very outdated but what a fun read :)
This is a great story.
It is another one of those "old" books I read from time to time.
It has a great love story, chivalry and honor, wealth and poverty, different cultures, and a point of view which describes our Western culture as far as who we think is a superior race.
I read some reviews before I started this book and more than one said they enjoyed it as a boy but weren't so sure as an adult.
I will say I am 61 years old and I never got bored or tired of it.
It was a wonderful story.
originates here, for the uninitiated - another great novel).
The Black Rose  originates in a romantic English legend concerning the father of Thomas a Becket and an Eastern girl.
However, the story itself smacks of adventure, some masculine romance (more action, less talk - think Louis L'amour), and overtones of cultural awareness and understanding.
A very engaging story, in the simplistic tone of the pre-nuclear Americas.
I really liked this book.
I liked the characters and the story.
It lacked specialness, vital spark, anything that touched me in a way all readers hoped to be touched when they read.
I felt no passion for the characters even though I liked them and they were well drawn.
I never sat up late at night reading because I just could not put the book down.
Basically I was never really MOVED in any way because I didn't connect with the characters.
While The Black Rose was a very enjoyable read, well researched, and well written for the aforementioned reasons I cannot give it more than 3-3.5 stars.
This is one of those books I bought because it looked good; it's one of the first editions, although what printing I have no idea.
And lo and behold, I liked it!It was really interesting to read; the language used is so different, I confess I didn't understand some bits.
But aside from the interest I took in the writing, it was a good plot, too.
Very grand story, good characters.
I recommend it, for those with the patience to read something that takes a little bit of effort.
I came across my edition of ‘The Black Rose’ long after the book was written and long after the movie, but I still consider it a keeper.
I thoroughly detested the dry method of learning about past events in World History class, but this book made history come alive for me as I envisioned exploration in faraway lands.
The story has a nice blend of adventure, history, and love as the fate of Walter of Gurney, his friend Tristram, and the exotic Maryam gradually unfolds whilst learning about the predictions of Roger Bacon and the conquests of Bayan of a Hundred Eyes.
The Black Rose definitely stands out as one of the better historical fiction books that I have laid eyes on!
This was wonderful tale brimming with adventure and romance. I was immediately drawn to the main character Walter and my opinion of him only grew fonder. The storyline keeps us journeying all over the globe as Walter and his friend set out to the East to find treasures and knowledge to better their positions back home in England. On this arduous journey, he grows from a young school boy into a man, he finds treasures he never imagined, and he gains wisdom and clarity. This story is a masterpiece.
I found this book in my grandparents library last month. I hadn't the slightest clue what it was about, but my boredom provoked me to pick a random book from the self. I started reading it and fell in love with it by page 20. It reminded me a lot of "Around the World in 80 days" so if your into adventure books about distant lands, love, and tea-lovin Brits who storm castles, It should be a book for you!
Compared to books such as these, all others seem to fall short. Such a masterpiece, written as no others are in this day and age. This book is an antique (out of print) and I am so glad I was able to read it when I did -- many decades ago. I bought two copies at used books stores, and will never let go of them.The 1950 movie, with Tyrone Power and Orson Welles, did not do it justice; fair attempt.
The principles taught in this work cross into so many different topics of discussion that it's not possible to even start in a review. Suffice it to say that I'm really surprised I've never heard of this gem. It's a fantastic adventure of a nobleman (almost) and his commoner friend in the 1200s and their journey across the Silk Road to China - amazing. Wonderful. Read it!
Despite all favorable reviews, I didn't really enjoy so much this romantic novel written by Thomas Costain.The characters didn't are so interesting and the plot didn't keep my full attention while reading this book.Sorry guys but I think TBC wrote better books than this one.
I read this book when I was a teenager and had such fond memories of it that I looked it up and re-read it. Let's just say that my tastes have matured. I enjoyed the reread, but the story lacked the romanticism and excitement my teenage memory remembered.

Written in 1945, it is quite an adventure tale.
There were "new" old words on every page, really written with correct names for things of the times.
I really liked parts of it and loved some of the characters.
I did not like Maryam at all.
The actors were not well cast (A young Orson Welles as Bayan, in dark makeup, just awful.) It took me a month to read it, with breaks in between.
But I can see it could be a big dramatic epic movie today if anyone was interested enough.
It is worth reading.
This book has been the White Whale on my bookshelf.
It has taken me five years to finally sit down and read through it, and although at times I felt like quitting, I prospered on-despite the melodramatic characters and cringy dated cultural remarks (thanks 1940s).
You can feel the setting affect the tone of the story, which adds to the adventure of it all.
If you dislike books where the protagonist's sidekick is a better character than the main character, well, avoid this book like the plague.
Overall, I would say this book is ideal for those who love a good angry book rant or want great starter material for fanfiction.

I really enjoyed this book. The story moves from a University setting to the Orient and I enjoyed the main characters adventures and an enjoyable romance. Life as a bastard grandson to a entrepreneurial noble gives way to survival in a Mongol caravan, which in turn gives way to life in a Chinese city about to be invaded. I was swept along by the narrative, and never considered dropping the book.
I read this in high school. Actually, Costain's books are where I got my foundation in European history. Pick up facts easily in an engaging story. The Black Rose is dated in style, having been written in the 1950s, but that's not all bad. The story is still pretty solid, even if the "facts" are more discernible as explanations of the time period. I may see of I can get others of his just to refresh my memory.
The first half of the book was engaging and interesting. The second half wandered seemly without purpose and I just wanted it to end. I appreciate the authors depictions of the period and life within it, but the second half (until the last 5 pages or so) just does not sit well with me and spoiled the book for me.
Thus ensues danger, adventure, war, and romance.
This was one of those really great sprawling historical adventure romance sagas so popular in that era, and I still love them.
The author made a noble effort to keep the historical background of the novel accurate, which I love, but he tended to use a lot of medieval terms that were annoying to look up, but educational.
I would give five stars for the "historical" and five stars for the "adventure," but not the "romance," which tended to be too schmaltzy for my unromantic taste.
A dashing and enjoyable romance set in the 13th C of England during the ascension of King Edward I ("Longshanks"). Published in 1945, the writing is a pleasant cross between stilted Old English and popular 19th C novel, easy reading and a heart-warming story.
A fun kickoff-the-summer read, full of old-timey swashbuckling adventure and romance. I love the Costain History of the Plantagenets series, and although this wasn't quite as good, it was a fun peek into post-Conquest medieval England. My only pique is that I wish it had a sequel.
+1 star for audio performance. Dated. I liked the author when I was a teenager, not so much this one now.
A Favorite. Historical fiction of the best. Some romance, well researched history. All Costain books are very good.
Costain draws on a legend of an English crusader who becomes the father of Thomas a Beckett, and an Eastern girl who only knows two words of English.
While the book only deals with these three individuals in a peripheral way, and although dated due to 1940s stereotypes and writing style, this was still a fascinating, though romanticized look into the Dark Ages including changes in the feudal system of England, the advent of the longbow and discovery of gunpowder, as well as the beginning of enlightenment due to the intrepid explorers who returned from fabled Cathay.
This book and author were highly recommended to me as great historical fiction.
I may eventually try reading The Silver Chalice by this same author, which has also been highly recommended.Quotes:“When wind of opportunity does not blow, find a big fan.” -p.
There was a smile and a wink on his broad golden face, and he seemed to be saying: “Take heart, ye poor, channering earthworms, stumbling through the dark and the wet.
Here I am, to drive the devil from the world again." ”“It was not only the hunted cave dweller that Walter saw...In place of the lined cheeks and unkempt beard, he saw a face that was calm and unselfish, and eyes that were friendly and cheerful and true.” -p.
