https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633177.The_Iron_Dream
The Iron Dream was banned in Germany for eight years, from 1982 to 1990, prompting Spinrad to report how both the political left and right railed against his book – the left claiming it promotes fascism and the right asserting the novel was denigrating to a great man (Adolf Hitler).
Now there’s an author who can’t win!Turning to Spinrad's The Iron Dream itself, on the surface we are given a kitschy bit of pulp, post-apocalypse melodrama entitled Lord of the Swastika written as alternative history by one Adolf Hitler, an illustrator and hack science fiction writer who emigrated from Germany to the United States after World War 1.
Well, if I had been involved in writing this book, here's how I think it might have got started:[Table is covered with the remains of what looks like a large and pleasant meal.
You know, Robert Heinlein and people like that?- I think Heinlein is more of a libertarian...- No, no, he's a fascist.
Suppose we were to write a parallel world novel, where Adolf Hitler never founds the Nazi party, but instead emigrates to the US and becomes a science fiction writer.- I think I see where this is going...- You do indeed.
So, he writes this novel called, I don't know, Lords of the Swastika, and it's a huge success, and the fans just love it.
One of the finest satires in modern fiction must surely be The Iron Dream by Norman Spinrad.
In Spinrad’s amazing novel, we are presented with an alternate history in which Adolf Hitler left Germany in 1919 and emigrated to New York, where he became a science fiction writer instead of a politician but with his essential psychology unchanged, a fact that made his integration into the world of pulp SF very smooth indeed.
In this parallel dimension, Hitler’s greatest work is a novel entitled Lord of the Swastika, and here at last, in Spinrad’s own book, we are presented with the definitive version.
Ron Hubbard and actually create a religion out of action-nonsense; or a cautionary tale to and from an alternate history, where the world apparently face an Ultimate Evil (the Soviets there, the Terrorists here), and, having no dastardly historical figure like our man Hitler to offer the negative side of iron resolution, truly question of themselves whether or not utter and extreme devotion to brutality in the form of a Supreme Leader is needed to "win the fight."Fortunately, our alternate-history scholar Whipple, who is incapable of even imagining such a figure rising to power, let alone the horrors inflicted on the Jews and the world in our own historical time, comes to a sensible conclusion:"In a sense, such a human being would be all surface and no interior.
Nachdem ich mich mit eisernem Willen durch dieses Buch gekämpft habe, bleibt mir als Fazit nur zu sagen: Adolf Hitler war ein hundsmiserabler Science-Fiction-Autor. Das Nachwort von Homer Whipple fasst meine Einwände gegen dieses Machwerk prägnant zusammen. Es ist vollkommen entbehrlich, dem noch etwas hinzufügen zu wollen. (Aber den Leser für dieses magere Fazit durch diesen Schund zu jagen, grenzt an Folter.)
Superb scenes that make every right man’s heart beat faster.Furthermore the entire book-within-book is left out: Feric Jaggar’s novel of ideas called MY STRIFE.
How weird is that!?At the end of the book a somewhat negative “review” by some dubious guy called Homer Whipple is added for no apparent reason.
This has to be fake and I suggest you skip it if you decide to read this book.
I would rather you read the unabridged version of LotS.
I added it to the GR database and will read it soon, but the entry got deleted right away by some librarian Nazi.
So, stay away from Spinrad’s book.
So the premise is Hitler has a falling out with the Nazis in their infancy and emigrates to America where he paints pulp fiction covers and becomes a semi-respected writer himself, spawning a Nazi-inspired fashion trend with his penultimate novel, Lord of The Swastika (the book within the book The Iron Dream, about the last true human state in a post apocalyptic world of mutants and mind controlling Dominators).
I get the joke, but it goes on a little too long till it gets uncomfortable (again, part of the joke - you're supposed to be uncomfortable reading about Feric Jaggar and his Aryan buds stoving in mutant skulls and spraying submachinegun bullets into a mixed race orgy at one point).
Dangerous Visions (and Dangerous Visions II) collect a number of the short stories with the peculiar combination of sardonic darkness and flower power that arose out of the first generation of Vietnam war cynics who really took a hard look at our civilization.The Iron Dream stands alone at the top -- over the top.
It is intended to be pure "fun" for the sort of demented soul that can read it for the satire it is and not be offended by its "elevation" of a distortion of the real historical story of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust to an insane wish-fulfillment fantasy of an Adolph Hitler who became a hack SF writer in an alternate reality.
Abgebrochen auf Seite 126
Abbruch nach 109 Seiten, Review evtl. später.
I was born in 1980 but enjoy reading plenty of "Golden Age SF" stuff, and no, I don't generally agree that much of it reads like Nazi/Aryan supremacy fantasies, even if some stories do tend to be a bit one-sided and reprehensible in certain aspects (this book did sort of remind me of something like Francis Moulon's Armageddon 2419).
The protagonist/Hitler goes all starry-eyed and ga-ga describing how beautifully someone's uniform is polished or how colourful/multifarious be their decorations.3.
The protagonist/Hitler goes all starry-eyed and ga-ga describing the beautiful lines and contours of a machine.6.
The idea of satirizing the racism/sexism/solipsism of much Sword & Sorcery and "hard" SF by writing a book as if by Adolph Hitler is a good one, but instead of actually critiquing such fiction by demonstrating its links to fascist ideology, Spinrad gets carried away satirizing Nazism itself, an absurdly easy target.
For example, rather than introducing a bunch of cardboard characters bearing the barely modified names of Nazi leaders, imagine if Spinrad had featured a Jubal Harshaw-like pontificator, an incomparable Dejah Thoris type, and a Sam Gamgee-style sympathetic sidekick.
Instead, he winds up with satire that doesn't hit anyone where they live, which is pointless.
Are you rating the entire package or the book-within-a-book, Lord Of The Swastika, by Adolf Hitler?On its own, Lord Of The Swastika is fairly wretched stuff: formulaic, over-enthusiastic pulp tripe.But packaged as a product of an alternate history, it becomes powerful.
With the shadow of the Holocaust and World War Two looming behind it, this pulp tripe becomes unsettling.
In the alternate history, Lord Of The Swastika is light entertainment and has a strong and enthusiastic fan base.
If we take a similarly-enjoyed fictional work from our work and perform the reverse of Spinrad's transformation, what kind of disturbing world would be produced?
A ce titre, Rêve de fer est une métaphore historique brillante (enfin, pour ce que j'en sais) racontant avec talent l'ascension d'un jeune immigré, qui va réussir à entraîner dans une orgie de destruction tout son peuple.
Enfin (si je puis dire) il existe encore un niveau supérieur, principalement explicité grâce à cette postface, dans laquelle Spinrad, alors que tout le roman s'attaque vigoureusement à au nazisme, choisit cette fois de concentrer ses attaques sur la moralité parfois douteuse évoquée dans les oeuvres de SF, ainsi, je pense, que sur la manière dont les critiques de SF ont pu, à un certain moment, tenté d'analyser les oeuvres de ce genre à travers des métaphores plus ou moins réussies (voilà qui ajoutera indéniablement de l'eau au moulin de Yann, mais il n'avait pas besoin de ça).
An alternate history where Hitler immigrated to America and became a pulp fiction writer.
Realiai čia, neskaitant nebaisiai ilgos įžangos, niekas nevyksta - nei pasakojimo, nei personažų progreso prasme.
Bet I get it, juk čia knyga apie tai, kaip Hitleris emigravo į USA ir parašė sci-fi knygą.
Gal net per daug.
Bet, kaip jau sakiau, pabaigus knyga lieka nemalonus jausmas.
Ir pati tokios knugos vertė yra geriausiu atveju meh.
Soriukas, Normanai, bet meh.
Gal nereikėjo...
Ir taip, aš suprantu, kad čia yra satyra at it's best, visiškai over-the-top lygyje, bet...
Ir išvis, knyga, kuri tave priverčia džiaugtis genocidu, turi būt arba LOTR gerumo, arba jos gal išvis nereikia šiame pasaulyje.
The premise is interesting: after a brief stint in radical politics, Hitler moves to New York, disenfranchised with the German political system yet not with the radical ideas of racial purity.
He becomes a hack illustrator, yet his biggest work is that of a science fiction book called "Lords of the Swastika".Spinrad's writing is harsh, often hackish and unkempt - just as a German speaking SciFi illustrator would.
His afterword, in which he assumes the identity of a reviewer, speaks of Hitler's death in 1953 and the posthumous Hugo award for his work on "Lords of the Swastika" as well as the staple Hitler's leather-and-swastika uniforms have become at SciFi conventions, since.
Die Pläne, überall im Weltraum Planeten zu besiedeln mit perfekten Helder-Klonen und jeweils einem Jaggar-Klon, der diese führen soll, war dann selbst für mich ein bisschen zu viel des Guten.Erst und vor allem durch das Nachwort eines fiktiven Homer Whipple zum Schluss wird deutlich, warum dieses Buch geschrieben wurde (und ich rede hier vom "tatsächlichen" Autor Spinrad).
Durch die totale Überzeichnung des Helden Jaggar und seiner Entourage, des Lebens in Held, sowie der Kriege, um alle "Untermenschen" auszulöschen, soll eine Absurdität vermittelt werden, die einerseits die Protagonisten und deren Dasein als geisteskranke Gestörte kennzeichnet, andererseits dann aber auch dem Leser den Spiegel vorhält, weil genau diese Vorgänge in und um Heldon Bestandteil der "wirklichen", der "realen" Geschichte waren.
Spinrad did his research; Iron Dream genuinely feels like a frothing iteration of Hitler's own ideas (and some of his IRL biography) expressed as a slick power fantasy filled with phallic motifs.
Everything that happens serves to emphasize his strength, willpower, racial purity, and impossibly persuasive rhetorical skills.If that doesn't sound like an entirely enjoyable thing to read, you're probably the sort of person with tastes Spinrad would appreciate, ironically.
Authors like Howard, Tolkien, Brooks, Heinlein, Goodkind, etc, who buy into the same kind of ahistorical racial, royalist, and militarist myths and indulge the same sorts of power fantasies (to the varying detriment of plot, characterization, and style) come off looking pretty bad after Iron Dream.
The Nazi Party never rose to power, World War II never happened, and Hitler became a popular science fiction writer and illustrator.Would Hitler have been a popular sci-fi author?
The hero Feric Jaggard, descended from royalty, returns to Helder to take control and lead its people to their rightful place as ruler of the world.The Iron Dream, in reality, is a satire intended to illustrate how many science fiction stories subtly or overtly express elements of fascism.
Does reading or writing a novel about soldiers and war machines promote militarism?How many science fiction stories have had bold and valiant heroes who lead the oppressed people to victory?
Das Beste am Buch ist das sogenannte "Nachwort zur zweiten Auflage". Davor muss man sich durch ca. 300 Seiten rassistischen Schund kämpfen (der ist gewollt und durchdacht - aber trotzdem extrem anstrengend zu lesen). Ich habe mich während dem Lesen doch hin und wieder gefragt, weshalb ich mir das eigentlich antue (einfache Antwort: wegen einer Leseempfehlungsliste von Philipp Theisohn).Zusätzlich die Frage, was will das Buch eigentlich bezwecken? Offenbar soll es rassistische Mechanismen und Tendenzen einiger Zukunftsromane aufzeigen (ich wollte es drum eigentlich als Vorbereitung auf H. P. Lovecraft lesen). Dafür ist es aber irgendwie zu platt.
I could show you my favorite obsessionI've been making a manWith blond hair and a tanAnd he's good for relieving my tension In The Iron Dream, che inspiegabilmente nella versione italiana diventa in copertina “Il signore della svastica” salvo poi mantenere una traduzione letteraria del romanzo all’interno del romanzo (“Il sogno d’acciaio”) Norman Spinrad immagina che Hitler, dopo un breve e fallimentare tentativo di entrare in politica, abbia abbandonato una Germania ormai in mano alle forze co

The idea behind this is hilarious - a science-fiction pulp novel from an alternative timeline, written by an Adolf Hitler who emigrated to the United States in 1919 and became something of an underground star of the US science fiction scene, producing a fanzine, being involved in SF conventions etc.It's set in a future after the "Ancients" (us) destroyed and irradiated most of the world with atomic bombs.
-Concepto original en la aproximación a lo monstruoso que se puede esconder entre lo intrascendente.-Género.
Edición que contiene la novela “El señor de la svástica”, premio Hugo en 1954 con carácter póstumo para el escritor e ilustrador Adolf Hitler, de origen alemán pero afincado en los Estados Unidos de América desde 1919, que nos narra la historia del héroe Feric Jaggar que, con su fe en un futuro mejor y con su pureza racial de hombre verdadero, se enfrenta a mutantes y doms que empañan la genética de la bella sociedad de Heldon, primero, y después del mundo, pero además una pequeña introducción sobre el autor y, al final, un comentario sobre la segunda edición de la obra escrito por un experto de la Universidad de Nueva York.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com....
To be strictly accurate, though, that novel -- Lord of the Swastika -- comprises about 95% of The Iron Dream, the rest being a minimalist framing narrative consisting of a blurb, an author biog and a deliberately fatuous critical essay dissecting "Hitler"'s work.
Just as good as it seemed when I read it for the first time, some ten years ago :). A masterful example of the paradoxical fact that sometimes you have to write a very bad book in order to write an excellent one *.* a large part of the novel consists of purposefully terrible SF novel supposedly written by the fictionalized version of Adolf Hitler.
I found this slightly hard work towards the end; I love a good pastiche, but the language got a bit too repetitive, and I was bored by how easily everything went our hero's way. I'd have liked the novel shorter and the subsequent analysis longer. (Favourite thing: the Göring expy.)
Truly bizarre.
His name: Adolf Hitler.The Iron Dream frames 'The Lord of the Swastika' with two pseudo essays, a biography of the author and an afterword analyzing this work.
The Lord of the Swastika is a classic sword & sorcery story of a larger than life hero, Feric Jaggar.
(view spoiler)[In an absurd climax, the Zinds release a second atomic disaster on Earth, ruining the genetic potential of all remaining Heldons.
In Germany, the translation was put on the index of books shortly after publication and was not to be sold to anybody under the age of 18 at the initiative of a German minister.
The Iron Dream has an irresistible hook: "What if Hitler became a science fiction writer instead of the Fuhrer?" Spinrad's clear purpose, confirmed explicitly in the fictional critical afterword to fictional Hitler's fictional novel, is to expose fascist sympathies in the most commercial strains of science fiction and fantasy writing.I must be reading the wrong (or is it right?) science fiction, then, because I absolutely cannot buy Lord of the Swastika as work of traditional genre fiction, even in an alternate history where the world was never turned decisively against eugenics and anti-Semitism.
Have YOU read books nearly as bad as Hitler's?
