https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228345.The_Orchid_Thief
Number one: don't judge this book by the movie Adaptation, which is not a screenplay of the book, but rather a screenplay that contains pieces of the book. Number two, my favorite quote: "The world is so huge that people are always getting lost in it. There are too many ideas and things and people, too many directions to go. I was starting to believe that the reason it matters to care passionately about something is that it whittles the world down to a more manageable size. It makes the world seem not huge and empty but full of possibility."
The result reads more like a disjointed collection of vaguely related essays than a coherent book.
Kaufman originally planned to make a film of the book, but struggled, on and off, over many years.
So he combined the two: a film that has Charlie, in collaboration with his (fictional) twin brother, struggling to write a screenplay of Orlean’s book, intercut with the story Orlean wrote about.
She wanted to rewrite Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit 451 (see my review HERE) from the point of view of the female characters, but ended up more fascinated by Truffaut's process of adaptation (see imdb HERE).
This was originally a piece for The New Yorker, and I think it should've stayed that way. It had its interesting moments but felt a bit bloated and directionless at times. I was expecting something more narrative-based and eccentric like  Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil. Instead every chapter just sort of felt like an essay about something related to the orchid industry, with a very small throughline about John Laroche. 2.5 stars
The book has the feel of an essay, or rather a series of essays focused on the central theme of orchids.
She magnificently well captures the feel of Florida, not merely the place but also the people.
This portrayal captured me more than the detailed descriptions of thefts and scams and peculiar individuals on which she sidetracks.
Her tone captures perfectly the people and the place, the atmosphere.Lines from the book that were particularly special for me:"The world is so huge that people are always getting lost in it.
There are too many ideas and things and people, too many directions to go.
This all began with a magazine article Orlean was writing about John Laroche, the title character.
It is a dog-eat-dog world, both for adventurers who travel to remote places to acquire rare species, and for botanists who nurture these finds and attempt to clone and modify orchids to keep the creative act moving.
Orlean looks at the vagaries of Florida Real Estate scamming as well as quirks in legislation relating to environmental protection and Native American rights.
P 279“It’s not really about collecting the thing itself,” Laroche went on.
Probably one of the most unique (bizarre?) books I have ever read.
Here's the reflection I wrote after I read it: I know absolutely nothing about plants.
My next thought is that the story is actually a biography, not about John Laroche, but about orchids.
Susan Orlean did not write a book about Orchids because she loves plants.
Underneath the plants, and the history, and the strange people, these are the questions of Orlean’s book.
While this is not necessarily wrong, I did find it distracting, and I thought it made the book harder to read.
Най-голямото разочарование за годината. Жалко за прекрасната корица и оформление.
At the center of that story is John Laroche, the man she’d read about in a small newspaper clipping when he was in court for stealing wild orchids from Florida’s state-owned Fakahatchee Strand.
Laroche is a character in the very best sense of the word – an eccentric, imperfect, intense bean pole of a man who invited Orlean into his world.
In THE ORCHID THIEF, Orleans weaves together the story of Laroche himself and his stolen orchids with the history of orchid collecting, the high stakes trade that it is today, the Florida real estate scams of the 1940s and 50s, and the history of the Fakahatchee Strand itself.
Вълшебна книга за блата, черни като кафе, непреодолима страст към екзотични създания, с необичайно жив език и дълбочина. Никога повече няма да поглеждам която и да е орхидея с безразличие.
If you haven't figured it out by now, I like histories and I like learning how people--usually real people-- live their lives in their particular environment.
This has both: learn the history of the orchid and discover a subculture of crazed flower lovers in Florida.
I knew nothing about orchids when I started reading this-- it made me want to know more.
'Why are people obsessed?
what an intriguing little flower!' It made me covet my own orchid (could I keep it alive?) and it made me secretly want to spend an entire day with them at the botanical garden.
Покрай „полевите“ си изследвания по изложения, разговори с големи и малки „производители“, посещения в резервати, тя ни предоставя и редица историческа информация – история на щата, история на лова на орхидеи, история на племето Факахачи, с които действията на Ларош са тясно свързани, и така успява да изгради плътна и цялостна картина на тази няколко вековна мания на човечеството по орхидеите.
Голямото е в пътуването през блатата на Флорида, в съществуването на това мултинационално племе любители на растенията, в смисъла осмислящ живота на засегнатите от непонятната мания.Вече чакам следващата книга на „Ерове“, отново скептичен и отново с нетърпение.
I adore it because it's so charming, because of sentences like "I suppose I do have one unembarrassing passion: I want to know what it feels like to be passionate about something," because Orlean writes about her human subjects with a bit of "Can you believe this craziness?" without losing sight of the fact that she is actually writing about humans, and because she has this gift for uncovering those odd little tidbits of information that make the world seem like a magical place where anything is possible.This is one of those books that, while purporting to be about one thing - the world of orchid fanciers - is really about another thing - obsession.
"This was the low, simmering part of the state, as quiet as a shrine except for crickets keeping time and the creak of trees bending and the crackly slam of a screen door and the clatter of a car now and then ...""We whipped past abandoned bungalows melting into woodpiles, and past NO TRESPASSING signs shot up like Swiss cheese, and past a rusty boat run aground on someone's driveway, and past fences leaning like old ladies, and then almost past a hand-lettered sign that interested Laroche, so he smashed the brakes and craned his neck to read it.
The sign read FOR SALE: BABY GOATS, GUAVA JAM, CACTUS.
'That's pretty fucking weird, don't you think?' he asked."Good stuff.
I found the subject fascinating.
"There is nothing more melancholy than empty festive places."
Rex Stout’s fat detective suffered from orchidelirium. He would never vary his routine of working in his famous plant rooms on the top floor of the brownstone house no matter what the emergency, to Archie Goodwin’s consternation. Like bibliomania, orchidelirium is a mania that involves collecting — unlimited collecting. The orchid is “a jewel of a flower on a haystack of a plant.” Orchids have evolved into the “biggest flowering plant family on earth,” and many survive only in small niches they
Like bibliomania, orchidelirium is a mania that involves collecting — unlimited collecting.
Susan Orlean describes this mania in her fascinating book, which is a compendium of information about orchids as well.
Larceny among collectors is not unknown, and Orlean describes John Laroche, a man of many manias — he collected turtles, and I mean lots of turtles, as a child.
Laroche dreamed of making a fortune by finding the one really rare specimen of plant that he could then breed and sell.
Laroche merely provides anecdotal backdrops for a very interesting history of the mania for orchid collecting.
Like a lot of people, my entry point for this book was the film Adaptation.
I assumed that the film deviated a lot more from the book than it actually did (of course, in the book the author doesn't really -spoiler alert?- have a clandestine drug-fueled affair with John Laroche that culminates in vehicular manslaughter), but all the really profound themes about obsession and longing remain intact.I was pleasantly surprised that the presentation, essentially a New Yorker piece fleshed out to its maximum threshold, kept me engaged throughout with entertaining insight into the quirky (and often lonely) world of members of the orchid-collecting community.
This book was too scientific for me. I had no idea how obsessed people are over orchid and how many varieties there are, but there were some chapters that were way too scientific for me and I had no interest in the book during those sections. I stopped reading it halfway through. Just had no interest in it.
You could summarize The Orchid Thief as "Florida is a crazy place, y'all." It's one of the better non-fiction books I've read recently, starting with a scheme by John Laroche, a not-precisely-likeable but still very interesting fellow whom the author interviews and follows around in the course of writing her book, but delving into Victorian orchid cultivation (they had no idea how to grow orchids, especially in England, but they were mad about them) and flower genetics, Florida endangered species laws, and Florida real estate.Orchid collectors, apparently, get really, really obsessed.
The people she writes about are fascinating, even when Orlean is writing about past people she hasn't met.
She definitely manages to convey the excitement these people feel for orchids- all of the sudden I am super interested in orchids too and googling them.
I really want a monkey orchid now, though I'm not good at keeping any plants alive so I probably shouldn't pursue that interest.
I felt like Orleans led one way and then left us elsewhere.
Relatedly, she suggests wanting to be personally transformed by her investigation of these people's passions but doesn't give us any indication that this has happened.
Read during days 5-6 of a wildly aggressive infection while tossing feverishly in bed, so my impressions of this one are certainly odd and florid. More a biopic than anything else, the author follows the zany, larger-than-life LaRoche through Florida swamps chasing rare orchids (particularly the ghost orchid). LaRoche was charged with stealing orchids from protected lands (a federal crime) with Seminole natives, three of whom were charged along with him. A speedy, entertaining peek into the peculiar world of orchid-hunting you never knew existed in the continental U.S. ~~~~~~~Book Riot's Read Harder Challenge~~~~~~~#2: A book of true crime
The evocation of Florida's swamp and her star orchid enthusiasts were fascinating, and the description of tramping through the swamp goopfully convincing.If I had any complaint about this book, it might be that I found Orlean's repeated questioning of why people would collect orchids—or anything at all—so passionately, a little, I don't know, disingenuous?
I don't think I could have imagined a character as eccentric and fascinating as John Laroche."My response to this is less about Orlean, and more to the culture of our society that insists there's less inherent value and truthfulness in fiction than there is in 'real life'.
В “Крадецът на орхидеи” Сюзън Орлийн поема на причудливо пътешествие не само сред кървавото миналото на ловците на орхидеи, но и сред колоритни съвременни общности, за чието съществуване изобщо не подозирах.
Всички навярно знаят за треската за лалета в Нидерландия през XVII век, но едва ли са много хората, които знаят, че подобна треска за орхидеи измъчва хиляди от векове насам – и така до наши дни.
Цветя, които съчетават в себе си мистика и магия, които обсебват умове и погубват животи – но едновременно с това са способни да донесат безмерна радост на тези, които са паднали в плен на тяхното очарование.Издателство Еровеhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...
It was really funky and funny and interesting and so I was so curious if this novel really existed that was the basis of the movie.
They are so much more interesting to me now after reading all about the history and culture of them--and how obsessive people can be about them.Then I was so interested in Orlean, that I had to go and find her original newspaper article that this whole book started with..based on Laroche's original arrest for stealing orchids.Just a great all around explosive experience of an event that grows to a newspaper feature, a novel, and then a movie--each one different and excellent in and of itself--and a great venture into the world of orchids and unusual people for me.I highly recommend the novel and the movie!
If you've seen Adaptation, the movie was made based on this book. In the movie Susan Orlean was played brilliantly by Merryl Streep, one of my favorite actresses. I don't know if Streep had met Orlean in person or not, as Jolie made friends with Pearl before shooting a Mighty Heart.The book is written in semi-journalistic narration, very easy to follow, filled with informations about another world out there that was pretty much mind-blowing for me. I appreciate several certain profession after I finished reading this book. And also gain more knowledge than I intended to on orchids.
I enjoyed this book. The exploration of how an obsession can dictate a persons life is exceptional. That being said I must say I tired of the Horticultural explanations and descriptions. I did enjoy much of the history of the orchid.I also enjoyed the movie Adaptation. Inspired by the book but in noway an actual book made into movie. The Nicholas Cage characters are pure fiction the other characters are true to the book if not the true story.
The novel topped the movie,however,the latter is Avery good one...
Ostensibly, The Orchid Thief is about an eccentric orchid obsessive, John Laroche, whom Susan Orlean meets when he's on trial for stealing rare ghost orchids from a Florida swamp called the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve, and Orlean's own efforts to see the elusive ghost orchid in the wild.
I think that if you're expecting it to be one particular thing (the saga of John Laroche, or the wild story depicted in the movie Adaptation), you might be disappointed, because it keeps veering from one thing to another -- orchids, Florida, crazy people, and then back again.
I enjoyed the snarkily humorous tone, the violent history of orchid collecting, the poetic asides, and the author's knack for recreating some fantastic banter, especially between the author-narrator and her titular orchid thief subject, John Laroche. At some point around the half-way point, however, I was ready to be done with it. As interesting as the subject is, it couldn't sustain itself through 282 pages, and there is no compelling narrative thread to connect the chapters and move the reader along. Now I just need to rewatch Adaptation.
At my desk, I rifled through them - all romance novels, except for this one, The Orchid Thief.
A co-worker was surprised, "You don't read romance novels?" with genuine sincerity.
There is a thread of a storyline about the author following around a crazy, obsessed convicted orchid thief.
Mostly she immerses herself in orchid culture and history, only to find out that every orchid enthusiast is crazy and obsessed.If you live in Florida, the philosophy of plant people is probably everyday mundane stuff.
