https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20082.The_Renegades_of_Pern
I thoroughly enjoyed this one.It's funny, reading through these books has been a lot of fun.
It has been so long since the first couple of times that I read through this series, that I am hitting on characters that I just don't remember.
I was a teenager when I first read these though, so who knows what I was thinking through those first times.
I have been thoroughly entertained this time around and it has been so enjoyable getting to know these characters again.
They are still important and I still think they are fantastic, but there are also other characters that are just as lovable and important.
It is also the book that sets up the latter stories in the series, since in the later part the Pernese discover the sites of 'the ancients' on the Southern continent and start excavating them, leading to latter books.This book contains probably the most number of separate plots, discrete plot lines and the largest suite of characters of any that I have previously read by McCaffrey and to be honest, at first I was a bit exasperated the prologe introduces us rather rapidly to rather too many people who you will not encounter until much later, by which time I had forgotten them.
Dude, even McCaffrey got bored with her own new (deeply boring) characters halfway through the book, chucked the whole Holdless plotlines for huge swathes, and went back to focusing on Piemur and Toric and the politics of the Southern continent.
It irks my sense of order that huge chunks of the through-narrative from the original (in my mind) six books/two trilogies has to be continued here before being picked up as the A story once again in All the Weyrs of Pern again.
It seems a poorly put-together book, but I nevertheless relished the bits about Piemur growing up and continuing his story from Dragondrums.
3.5 stars Although I enjoyed this book it felt like two different stories mashed together, along with bits and pieces of the other books thrown in. The reason for that I guess is that it was over a long period of time. Piemur and the continuing excavations in the south were fascinating but I kept wishing they would come across a Dictionary as it would help immensely.
If the entire book had been about Piemur and the continuing excavations of Landing I would have enjoyed it much more. The continuation of Aramina's story from The Girl Who Heard Dragons was interesting but mixing the two plots made for a rather disjointed book.
Yes there were slow parts and yes there were a few too many names to remember.
But the STORY, omg, the STORY.I looooove how some books deal with the same timeline/plotline as otherbooks but tells it from other perspectives, adding depth to the world and story as a whole.
This book covers the same time period as the very first three of the series but tells the stories from the point of view of various Renegades (holdless (re: people who are not in charge or living in a Hold) of Pern.
I LOVE that.
What a great way to tell the story!!
I quite enjoyed the intertwining stories of this book. The progression of plot is a little spotty and the climax a bit late, but the relationships between the characters involved is just as interesting.
too short
The time in this book covers the time in Dragonflight, Dragonquest, The White Dragon, the novella The Girl Who Heard Dragons, and the Harper Hall trilogy.Renegades reads liked a deleted scene reel.
Renegades focuses on Thella, the antagonist from The Girl Who Heard Dragons, and her two targets, Jayge and Aramina.
Aramina seemed to have less page time than the novella she was in, which I found strange.
Now thinking back, it's hard for me to remember which character had the most focus, and that's probably because there isn't a solid plotline.I liked that Jaxom and Ruth appear for a brief time in the end.
I thought I had read all the Pern books, but I don’t remember this one. This is the same time period of  “The Dragonriders of Pern”  but told from the perspective of those outside of the Weyrs, the Lord Holders, those under the Lord Holders protection and those who fell between the cracks, the holdless and those who preferred to be on their own, such as the traders.While the narrative goes in a straight line chronologically, the story jumps around from one place to another, from one persons view
I thought I had read all the Pern books, but I don’t remember this one.
We get further insight to characters we already know, looking at things from their viewpoint.If you haven’t read the other Pern books, you might find this book confusing, however, you would only need to read the first 3 books to be able to follow along with the story line and not get confused.One thing I didn’t like in this book was how one dimensional the villain was, she wasn’t really given any kind of personality, except for being a deranged spoiled brat of a Lord Holder.
Where I thought Moreta and Nerilka should have been combined into one book, this one felt like it should have been two separate books. There are two very different stories haphazardly crammed into one. It's kind of a mess. It jumps all over the place in location and time and point of view. And every time I read one of the love scenes, I just roll my eyes. They are so awkward and forced! I am beginning to ask myself how McCaffrey became so famous when she was turning out books like this.
Reread
I'd be tempted to go Chaotic Evil Robin Hood too!I tend to defend the Pern books because I'm ell aware that the pseudo-medieval society they present is ACCURATE and that such things have happened in the real past.
When the first scene between the "Bad Guy" and her "Good Guy" brother makes you want to support HER and put HIM on a watch list...it ALMOST seems like McCaffrey was trying to set up a Sympathetic Villain scenario, except that this is pretty much the last time Thella does anything that you would sympathize with.What I love most about Renegades is that it takes you away from the Weyrs and the ever-present battles with Thread.
The ending of the primary plot about the primary protagonist and antagonist (I think primary) was telegraphed from the very beginning, down to the weapons.
And unfortunately, like the original trilogy, the sci-fi doesn't start until the very end.
I get the cross book story arc and why that should get a cliff hanger and why Renegades is very self-contained; but the A story line should have had more of a presence.
While the protagonists play a part in the over arcing story, their part was not related to the A story line.
En réalité, il se passe après Le dragon blanc, un peu à cheval entre certains tomes, vu qu'on reprend le passé de ceux qui sont appelés les renégats, qui vivent à l'extérieur des Forts...Il s'agit aussi d'un « cycle interne » unique, un tome tout seul, et franchement, tant mieux, j'ai envie de dire, parce que je me suis vraiment beaucoup ennuyée pendant les deux premiers tiers de l'histoire.
Finalement, le dernier tiers reprend la fin du dragon blanc, on a déjà trouvé les fameux vestiges des premiers hommes sur Pern, on sait déjà que les sœurs de l'Aube sont particulières et dès que l'histoire s'est raccrochée à cette trame, j'ai aimé.
This book is a bit difficult to break down but essentially of all the Pern books in the main series this one struggles to match the others in pace and attraction.
And does it pick up!This one is an important part of the main story in that you get a new perspective that not everyone on Pern is good and has the vision of most of our protagonists.
It jumps from time to time and from person to person which skews the continuity.Anyway it's a good part of the main in adding perspective and breadth to the story and the ending really picks up and the next book draws you in!
One is to tell a new story of the trader Jayge trying to protect Aramina, the girl who hears dragons.
Interwoven through their story are glimpses of important historical events taking place in Pern society which were seen in other novels, but retold this time through new eyes.
At the beginning section of the novel, I was unsure how McCaffrey was going to tie in the many different character she introduces in the prologue where she quickly jumps through brief mini-stories, giving us glimpses of different characters.
Renegades takes place during the same time and sets you up for the BIG conclusion which comes in the novel All the Weyrs of Pern.
It's not essential in order to enjoy any of the other books in this series.
However, I did enjoy the ending more this time, as I had forgotten a lot of it.I hate getting into Thella's POV.
And I felt that switching back and forth from Jayge & Aramina's story to Piemur's story didn't help the overall suspense.
There were a few details I had forgotten near the end, so after Piemur's story links to Jayge & Aramina's, I got into it more.
Interesting continuation of the Pern storyline, but not my favorite of the books to this time.
The story's main characters are Jayge and his traveling band, Thella and her murderous band of thugs, and Aramina who can talk/hear dragons even though she is not impressed.
I will say, IMO, Aramina played a minor roll in the story even though she was hyped up as a major character.
Her presence does further the storyline of both Thella and Jayge..
The most interesting part of this story is the re-discovering of the Southern Continent and the original Landing site of the original settlers to Pern.
I still enjoy it, but for the most part Thella dragged it down.
I feel like it was almost more of a Lust that might have turned into love over the years of living together.
Loved the stuff with Pieumer.
I never did get to read Dragon Drums, but I've always enjoyed his character.
I liked seeing the different pov's on things we'd seen in other books.
The book really dragged a bit in the middle and then picked up again once we hit Landing.
This is a good book, and I will eventually read it again for a third or fourth time.
This book covers nearly twenty years, beginning shortly before the beginning of the Ninth Pass of Threadfall, and ending during the seventeenth Pass.
Therefore it overlaps several of the other books, adding details from a different perspective, often that of the dispossessed, some of whom become renegades, some by choice, others by force of circumstance.
Several stories overlap, with much of the action taking place on the Southern Continent, especially towards the end of the book.
As always with this series, this book is hard to put down.
The characters are well-drawn and believable — even the dragons and fire-lizards.
To begin with the antagonist seemed quite an interesting one, but quickly turned into a one dimensional over the top villain.
Also to begin with seemed to start getting a different view of all the events that had been covered in the other novels, which was interesting, but this was soon discarded as well.
The Southern Continent bits, while interesting, and certainly set the scene for the next book, felt somewhat rushed.
Overall, moved things along, had some good scenes and certainly wasn't bad, and I think is somewhat required to make sense of the next book as well.
Always a fan of Pern and its many wonders. Thella is such a great character in regards to villains. You seriously want to see her maimed or dead, you dislike her that much. And I love the details of other things going on in the world of Pern at large, especially things pertaining to the Southern Continent. Those bits are actually probably my favorite.
This books starts before thread starts to fall again. No one believes that thread will fall again because it's been over 450 years. Then it jumps to present times then to when the southern continent has some holds under Toric who wants to hold ALL of the southern area. We find out what is going on at the Landing.
Love Anne McCaffrey she had such a wonderful, boundless imagination and such a vivid and descriptive style, her stories transport the reader into the fantastic world that she created and sweeps you up on the breathtaking adventures. Wonderful!
Anne McCaffrey is the quintessential writer of fantasy books pertaining to dragons. These books are always wonderful, well written, and perfectly characterized. All of her series are great but the ones that take place on Pern are the best of all. A thoroughly fun and engaging read.
Dit boek laat ons meer weten over wat minder belangrijke personages en introduceert een aantal nieuwe mensen die warschijnlijk in de komende boeken een grotere rol gaan spelen. Het is een beetje een tussenboek vermoed ik.
This is such a great book. A totally different perspective of Pern than the other Pern books. Where normally everything is seen from dragonrider perspective, this is more concerned with traders, holders, and yes, renegades. Great read.
Good story, but it ended too abruptly
Not my favorite pern book. It spanned a very long period of time, and mirrored/paralleled other stories we've read. Writing was good as always, just don't feel like I really read that much new.
