https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574049.Where_Two_Ways_Met
In this story, a young man just back from the trenches of WW2 must decide if he is going to follow God’s path or the path of success.
A true-hearted young woman’s matter-of-fact faith spurs him down the right track, but when she is called out of town the field is left to a designing woman—his boss’s unscrupulous and determined daughter.I had a hard time getting through it, so I can’t rate it above “good,” but the story is overall solid.
The story is mainly a man-against-himself sort of book, though there is a romantic angle.Content: none
Another good story...though it was odd having a male character named Paige.
Another sweet, old-fashioned romance from Grace Livingston Hill. Will the hero pass up the wealth and fast ways of the people he began working for after World War I or will he maintain and grow the values he was raised with? Two women will help him decide his future.
How pleasant!
There was one fairly major issue brought up in the plot that went unresolved, either abandoned or forgotten as the novel headed quickly toward its happy finish.Hill was purposeful in the way she tied her books up, once saying, "I feel that there is enough sadness and sorrow in the world.
So I try to end all my books as beautifully as possible, since that is God's way--and the best way." While it's not the kind of literature I'd like to read from a modern Christian author, I return to Hill's books when I want a pick-me-up, something old-fashioned that's sure to be clean and delightful.
I wish I had discovered this author earlier.All these books have just the right balance of wholesome Christian morals and romance to keep it interesting, each one a study in how to handle life's problems in an appropriate Christian way, something that we are missing today.
RefreshingI always find this stories refreshing, especially amid the modern era of explicitly in romance. I recommend Grace Livingston Hill highly.
This book was fine. A bit slow and not terribly exciting, but sweet and clean and just fine.
I love Grace Livingston Hill's style. Yes, it is older... But I love how she interweaves Jesus into her stories.
It's been a few years since I've read a Grace Livingston Hill book. It was just so pleasant and wholesome. Quite a breath of fresh air!
He dislikes having to foreclose people's homes in this new business, and suspects that they are not playing fair.His boss's worldly daughter, Reva, is a popular beauty, and she sets her mind on winning over Paige, which is an annoyance to Paige.The new minister's daughter, June, is the opposite of Reva (except that she's a beauty, too).
Paige helps June care for a struggling family, and the two are drawn together with their similar beliefs and concerns.When June has to leave to tend her sickly aunt, she finds herself in a trying situation.Not as riveting as some of Grace Livingston Hill's novels, but good, nevertheless.
Enjoyed the experience!Good book.
Super cute old story set in the 1940's. If you like classic World War II love stories with a happy ending then I would totally recommend this book.
