https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/793903.Shen_of_the_Sea
In order to deal with it at all, we have to have that understanding up front.Although Shen of the Sea is subtitled "Chinese Stories for Children," it has no source notes of any kind, and none of the tales are recognizable versions of any standard Chinese folktales.
But like so many of the other early Newbery winners, it's hard to definitively say that Shen wasn't the most deserving book of its year.
I added a star to my rating after one of my students declared, "It wasn't awful."
Ghastly in its cultural appropriation, but not nearly as offensive and as poorly written as Tales from a Silver Lands.This is not to say the book isn't offensive.
That is, I try to think like someone from that time period reading.
It was probably way ahead of its time (and, dare I say, likely considered to be groundbreaking and "multicultural" - even though no such thing existed in the 1920s).A few of the stories were entertaining and memorable, and other were meandering and pointless.
As an aside, I am dreading the other Newbery Medals from this time period.
It was hailed at the time as "authentic" but cultural authenticity is regarded a little differently today.
I do like the inclusion of Chinese words and I do appreciate, that for the time, it was big step forward in accepting and introducing other cultures to children.
But presenting it as authentic Chinese folktales to children today would be a misrepresentation.
I think perhaps Shen of the Sea could use a little light editing (such as Dr. Dolittle received) or at the very least a forward to clarify the author's use of another culture's bits of folklore to create new literary inventions.
I read this as part of my quest to read all the Newbery Medal winners sometime before I die.
It's taking me that long.
Anyway, this one is a product of its time.
It's important to remember when reading some of these older books that weren't offensive at the time and our sensibilities are more enlightened now.
Hopefully.
Taken at face value these are some cute stories about how some things were invented, words came to be, and moral things we should all know.
But they are couched in insensitive language by a story writer and not a folklorist.
Seriously, the Newbery winners of the 1920s are making me despair for the children who were reading them. Doctor Dolittle was good when I read it originally. It now seems like the best book in the history of books in comparison with the other winners. Blah. Smoky is up next.
<2I imagine the panel of readers reading this book thinking they were really offering the world something great.
Children everywhere will have cultural knowledge of the East with these Chinese folk tales.
They will gain an appreciation for the culture and the people.
Except, well, they aren't actually Chinese folk tales.
Actually, they don't resemble anything in Chinese culture.
And the panel bought it.
The emperor actually threw away his fork and spoon in favor of short sticks.
Because of course he started with a fork and spoon, right?
Of course.
Thank you Newbery panel, for teaching us all about Ethnocentrism.
Arthur Bowie Chrisman was a famous storyteller and collector of tales in the early part of the twentieth century, which is why the stories collected in Shen of the Sea read the way they do. Amusing tales and great adventures, but I'd like to hear them told aloud. I think they would be that much more powerful and humorous.
Understanding of cultural appropriation, accuracy in cultural representation, and how and why someone can say that a story is "Chinese" have changed radically in the last 90 years.
None of these stories, as far as I can tell, are actually authentically Chinese.
But that modern book makes it clear that the author was "inspired" by the tales and is now using them in her own way to tell a slightly different story (which she does fabulously).
Contemporary practice says that you cannot say that your stories are "Chinese Stories" simply because you chose to set them in China, a land Chrisman had never visited.
Racist is a strong word, and to say that Chrisman saw all Chinese people as inferior or even in a negative way would be, I think a false accusation.Then there's the issue of these stories being actual folklore.
Most contemporary reviewers don't seem to think that these stories are actual genuine Chinese folktales.
No, Chrisman never visited China, but he claims to have collected these stories from Chinese immigrants.
But they give it the Newbery award?" I think that contemporary people sometimes unfairly look at the citizens of the past in a condescending way.
This book is meant to be read aloud!
I'm not convinced these are traditional Chinese stories (I've read a lot of folktales in my life and never heard any of these before) but would guess that Chrisman wrote them himself based on the style of Chinese tales.
Every single time this book came out my son's face lit up, he thoroughly enjoyed it!
This book has a habit of getting mixed reviews and to those who give it low ratings, I ask you to read aloud a couple of stories to a child or group of children.
I am not nearly informed enough to explain all of the ways in which this book is inappropriate culturally, but as I read, I just felt increasingly uncomfortable with the way he characterized the Chinese and it felt that he was completely mishandling the culture of the Chinese.
He fails to convince me that he is knowledgeable and careful enough to be selling this to kids.At the time, people probably thought they were great for adding multicultural literature, but honestly, something is not always better than nothing.Oyate has a great way of looking at books like these http://www.oyate.org/index.php?option...
I stopped reading this book after about 1 and a half stories. I found the stories slightly interesting, but got a little hung over the names and places. They were so different from anything I was used to and I had a hard time keeping them straight. I eventually fell asleep while reading this book and never picked it up again. I only feel slightly bad because it is a Newbery Medal. I might recommend this book, it just wasn't for me.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2009...
Newbery Medal Winner--1926This is the second collection of stories to be awarded the Newbery medal, and like the previous, this one comes from a culture rich in history and story. Many of the stories explain things important to Chinese culture--how chopsticks came to be used, how firecrackers and kites were invented, why plates are called "china." My favorite is probably the story that this collection takes its title from, "Shen of the Sea," a story about water demons who threaten to flood a kingdom and are instead entrapped in a bottle by the clever king. An interesting collection.
And the Newbery Winner read/re-read continues.
Another early one, and not a good one.
A book of unauthentic Chinese folktales told in such a way to make fun of the culture.
At best Shaggy Dog stories.
There were some that held my attention for a bit, but most of them were just a slog.
And besides the dumb names which were clearly chosen to amuse someone by their play on language for English, they also got details about pretty much everything wrong for China.
And yet told one at a time these stories might have worked read aloud with small details changed.
It's a little hard for me to judge this one since I read it right after reading the previous Newbery winner, which is another collection of tales.
These are also very cute and absurd, merely in a different setting.
It was fun to read, and quite humorous at times.
Sometimes it got a little slow, but collections of tales tend to do that when you're reading them in a bunch.Edit: I saw some other reviews, and I didn't get the same vibe toward racism or cultural insensitivity that some other readers did.
I found the stories goofy and playful, like most fairy tales.
1926 Newbery Medal recipient.4.5 stars. My favorite of the Newbery winners so far, this is a collection of Chinese folk tales. The stories are fast-paced with larger than life characters. The stories celebrate cleverness, and are shrewdly told such that the reader must beware that things are never what they seem. Philosophy is shown by example (often subtly) rather than being explicitly stated. Very enjoyable read, and I might pick up a copy of my own when I see it for sale.
I've finally finished this Newbery Medal winning book. It's one that I could not get into and avoided going back to. I'm glad I didn't give up but I will also not recommend it to any readers (unless s/he is participating in the reading challenge ~ then I'd have to say, some of the stories are not terrible. Some were mildly entertaining).
Not the most terrible Newbery winner so far (this challenge will drive me insane until I hit the 40s), but not great. I have trouble trusting that these are accurate folktales as there is no information in the book attesting to origins. And the tone of children's books from the 20s continues to be patronizing and irksome.
Rated G. Absolutely delightful! I have heard of this, but the cover and the title as well as the age of the book kind of gave me a negative impression of the book. Contrary to my expectations, though, Shen of the Sea is a lot of fun. Princes, emperors, lazy and disobedient boys, cute princesses who prefer clay mud pies to golden toys--every short story here is a gem.
Unusually entertaining folktales. I know nothing about their accuracy or whether this book is racist/stereotypical, though.
Many of the stories were hard to follow because of the repeating of certain names (Nu Wa appears twice and Ching Chi thrice as different people), name parts (Ah, Mei, Ching, Fu, Wu, Lang, Ting....) and words that I am sure are not really Chinese at all.
The book was written by an American in the mid 1920s.
Ting Tsun would have frozen to death within seconds of leaving the stratosphere.
I didn't understand why the King didn't keep his word and then why Ting Tsun didn't confront him about it (with the Dragon King's sword).
Also people can't live on the moon or Venus!!
This is yet another early example of the librarians of the ALA trying to use the Newberys to reward cultural diversity and failing big time.Is it as bad as "The Pigtail of Ah Lee Ben Lo"?
Yes. Chrisman never went to China and probably never spoke to anyone Chinese.
These tales were made up for a Western/American audience to explain the origins of various items: the printing press, chop-sticks, gunpowder, tea, porcelain, and kites.
Other stories are wisdom and/or morality tales about using cleverness to solve problems.
Yes, at times, which is why the book gets a half star higher rating than "The Pigtail of Ah Lee Ben Lo".
Shen of the Sea: Chinese Stories for Children is a delightful little book of folk tales, something that I think Tales from Silver Lands tried to be and failed.
There’s some sort of moral attached to each one, but not in any obtrusive way as in Aesop’s Fables.Shen of the Sea brings a lightheartedness to these early Newbery Medals that has been absent since The Voyages of Doctor Doolittle.
Though I’m not ranking the Newbery Medals, Shen of the Sea is my second favorite of the 1920s batch I’ve read so far, behind Doctor Doolittle.
This collection of short Chinese traditional tales is timeless.
Children will enjoy the twists, as many times the story seems to wrap up, and then several more pages reveal an amusing, surprising extra turn of events.
Many of these stories explain how the first something was created, so they are like creation myths, only most stories don't explain how an element of nature arose, instead how a man-made thing came about.
Full of superstition, dragons, demons (aka Shen), witches, and naughty children, these stories can still be a hit if you just read them out loud with the right inflection to wide-eyed children.
These beautiful stories deserve more contemporary artwork to entice our visually-saturated young eyes.
Shen of the Sea : Chinese Stories for Children by Arthur Chrisman, is not the first thing I've read so far during my summer break, but it felt like the right book to review to get back in the swing of this blogging thing.
Critics of the Newbery Medal have said that the Childrens Librarians section of the American Library Association, who award the medal, often pick the books they like, as adults, and not necessarily the ones that kids themselves would want selected.
This book is comparable in my mind to Tales From Silver Lands which is also an early Newbery medalist. Both are collections of short stories from lands that young people are likely to be unfamiliar with. Of the two, I think I like this one a bit better, although I gave both books 4 star ratings.
Some of the stories I really liked. Like the one about the princess who preferred making mud pies to playing with expensive dolls. But there weren't enough of the ones that I liked to make this more than just an "okay" for me.
This book surprised me in that I honestly enjoyed reading the short Chinese legends.
Same concept as Tales from Silver Lands but not as well-written or as interesting. My children would 100% not enjoy this book in any way.
