https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7337.The_Tolkien_Reader
টোলকিয়েন সাহেব যতখানি যতন নিয়ে দুনিয়া গড়েছিলেন বই লিখতে গিয়ে, ভাবতে অবাক লাগে। এই বইয়ে একটা নামডাক-ওলা পরবনধ আছে, অনেকদিন পর পরবনধ পড়লাম। সেইখানে কিছু চিনতা দেখা গেলো, তাঁর নিজের লেখা যে ধাচের, ঐ ধাচের সাহিতযের বিষয়ে।অঙগুরীয়পুরাণের শেষের সংযুকতি পড়লে তাঁর শরম আঁচ করা যায়। এটা, মানে পরবনধটা পড়ে জানা গেলো, তিনি লেখালেখিকে কীভাবে দেখেন, গলপকে কীভাবে।একটা জিনিস যেমন, আমরা ভাবি যে ধূসর চরিতর সৃষটি মহৎকরম, শাদাকালো চরিতরেরা কাঁচা হাতের কাজ। ভেবেভেবেও যে সেটা করা যায়, তাও এতটা ভেবেসেবে, জানতে হলে এ বই
টোল্কিয়েন সাহেব যতখানি যত্ন নিয়ে দুনিয়া গড়েছিলেন বই লিখতে গিয়ে, ভাবতে অবাক লাগে। এই বইয়ে একটা নামডাক
Finished reading The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit?
This is the next Tolkien book I'd recommend, a good introduction to Tolkien the essayist and the short-story teller.
(One wishes the poem "mythopoeia" were here too, but alas, it is not.)The only downside to this book is that it overlaps with quite a few other Tolkien anthologies.
But if you want to get to know Tolkien's work with any degree of credibility, the material you find in "The Tolkien Reader" are must-reads.RE de Leon11:20 PM January 5, 2010Agoo, La Union, Philippines
The three best pieces in the book are "On Fairy Stories," "Leaf by Niggle" and "Farmer Giles of Ham.""On Fairy Stories" deals with two important themes--subcreation and eucatastrophe.Subcreation is the act of world-building in which all creators of stories participate.
The primary world, the physical and spiritual world in which we live, was created by God. The world in which the events of our stories take place is not the primary world, but a secondary world that has been subcreated by an author.
Excellent compilation of some of Tolkien's shorter works.
Leaf by Niggle is my all time favorite short story of Tolkien's.
Niggle also learns that being creative is valued by God. This ties in directly to Tolkien's main point in his essay On Fairy Stories.
He argued that fantasy is its own art form and shouldn't be relegated to children's stories.
Instead, creating fantasy worlds is a reflection of our creator.
He says "Fantasy remains a human right: we make in our measure and in our derivative mode, because we are made: and not only made, but made in the image and likeness of a Maker."
"Farmer Giles of Ham" is a genuinely entertaining bit of medieval satire, while "Smith of Wootton Major" (which isn't included in this particular collection, but I read it alongside the other works anyway) is a truly superb fairy story, combining the unsettling, strange beauty of Faerie with a very ordinary, poignant story of humble people growing older and wiser (or not!) as the years go by.
There are many collections where these and other writings by Tolkien can be found; wherever you find them, they are worth treasuring.
I debated on how I should rate this book. I really enjoyed a couple of the stories, but liked the poetry less well. I've never really been a fan of poetry, even that within Tolkien's Middle Earth books. However, Leaf: By Niggle and Farmer Giles of Ham were so enjoyable that they bumped this volume up to four stars. In fact, Leaf is so good that I would rate it as one of the best short stories that I have ever read.
This collection is a must read for fans of all forms of fantasy.
His essay "On Fairy Tales" is worth reading at least twice.
If reading "On Fairy tales" for the first time, I suggest you try to avoid reading the footnotes.
They're interesting, but they knock you out of Tolkien's thought train.
Then read it again, preferrably immediately.
The poems, frankly, might only be of interest to die-hard LOTR fans.Recommend you skip Peter S.
Beagle's essay on "Tolkien's Magic Ring" as it adds nothing to the collection.
If Mister Beagle actually read "The Lord of the Rings," he certainly didn't understand it.
How he longed for dragons as a child, how he "had and has a wholly unsatisfied desire to shoot well with a bow," how he can make himself sit through a cricket match only by using things other than cricket to stay interested, such as a "wild, heraldic preference for dark blue over light blue." It was also amusing to see that he always skipped over the poetry in books when he was young.In Leaf by Niggle, he shows his view of his own life, and what he expects to be doing in the afterlife.I liked everything in this book, including the poetry.
If you're looking for more Lord of the Rings when you read this book, you're going to be disappointed. That said, it's got some really stunning poetry in it, a few very interesting stories, and an interesting essay of mine, "On Faerie Stories." Odds are, you'll find something in here you really like, some things you're pretty indifferent toward, and some things you don't like at all.
Anyone who wants to know the mind of Tolkien should own this book. A clear insight into his thinking of story writing and his Christian worldview.
Each of the pieces here represent a different genre - drama, essay, short fiction, and poetry - that are, for the most part, unrelated to Middle Earth, but if you've read The Hobbit and/or LOTR and aren't sure what to read next, this is a great place to start.The Reader opens with "Tolkien's Magical Ring," a short preface by Peter S.
"Tree and Leaf." This is a double-sided piece that opens with Tolkien's famous essay, "On Fairy-Stories," which is the premiere work in defense of the fantasy genre as it seeks to offer a proper definition as well as a justification for the need for fantasy/fairy tales.
"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil." This last piece is actually a narrative poem split into sections, some of which deal with Tom Bombadil, a character fans of The Lord of the Rings will be familiar with, as well as verses about Middle-Earth in general.
"On Fairy Stories" should have been required reading for a literature major. Or for anyone who plans on giving kids reading material. He devotes an entire section on why fairy stories aren't only for children; Madeleine L'Engle and he would be good artist friends, and I can't shake the feeling that he was directly condemning Lewis's condescending tone in Narnia."Leaf by Niggle" is my new favorite theological exploration of art. If you're an artist of any sort--writer, painter, poet, anything--and a Christian, it's a must-read.
FOOTNOTE #26 ON PAGE 41-"this is, naturally, often enough what chidren mean when they ask:'Is this true?' They mean:'I like this, but is it contemporary? Am I safe in my bed?' The answer: 'There is certainly no dragon in England today,' is all that they want to hear."
This book would be worth its weight in buttered toast if only for "On Fairy-Stories" and "Leaf by Niggle." I was glad for the other additions as well, but these two I will come back to again and again for a reminder that life is ready to be mined for beauty and truth.
The master. And to think he could not get published until a friend took pity on the old fool. Scribbling away, I swear he did not invent, he visited!
Толкин плюс прекрасни въвеждащи думи на Питър Бийгъл - какво повече да се каже?:)
Lovely collection of short stories and poems, some relating to Middle Earth.Tolkien's genius at work!
tree and leaf:brilhante!o resto das estorias: n gostei mt. X(
The end of the essay soars as he links the rewards we get in reading fairy and fantasy stories to that of the Christian story, the greatest story of all, which has the singular benefit in that it also happens to be true, the place where myth and history meet."Homecoming of Beorhtnoth Beorhthelm's son" is a fragment of a play which is the least accessible of the the works.
It is an enjoyable read, but so much less developed than "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings" that it will be disappointing to anyone expecting something of similar caliber."The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" is the title given to a collection of poems at the end of the book.
The play at the beginning was just a little boring, too, at least, the introduction was.After some fast and hard reading sessions, I got into my favorite part of the book: Farmer Giles of Ham. This was a delightful short story, leaning heavily toward the comedic side of things, involving a dragon, a giant (the only part I didn’t really like), a rather selfish dog, and a fat farmer who becomes a hero, and eventually a king, in his little province, due to a heap of luck.
This is a nice selection of Tolkien's writings - and Peter Beagle's introduction to the joys of Middle Earth.
Samples of his scholarly work, including the brilliant On Fairy Stories show his thoughtful, penetrating, and sometimes playful, critical mind at work, as does his comparison of the Maldon poem fragment with Beowulf, analaysing the nature and limitations of chivalric ideals.
I picked this up for Tolkien reading day having merely leafed idly through it over the years it's been sitting on our shelves, and a real pleasure it's been.
The Adventures of Tom Bombadil is a collection of verse that shows some of the breadth of Tolkien's talent both as a very structured poet and as a storyteller.
It includes some thought-provoking works for any fan of Lord of the Rings, including an account of the wedding of Tom Bombadil to the River Daughter.
By far the crowning element in the collection is the careful, subtle essay "On Fairy Stories" and the accompanying short story, "Leaf by Niggle." These do a creditable job of summarizing Tolkien's own view of artistic work in general and his own writing in specific.

Any serious fan of Tolkien would enjoy this book, and would come to more deeply appreciate his Lord of the Rings masterpieces. Tolkien's essay "Tree and Leaf" gave me a new appreciation for "fairy stories" and the fantasy genre of literature. He was a deep thinker who took the ancient literature very seriously. This book helps to explain the strong connection that so many readers have with The Lord of the Rings. It's not just "escapism."
No one – and when I say no one, I mean NO ONE, not Robert Jordan (who greatly influenced my writing style), not Brandon Sanderson (my favorite author), not J.K. Rowling (who wrote my all-time favorite books), not even my own mother (who taught me to read) – had as much influence on my becoming a writer than the father of what we know today as the Fantasy Genre. J.R.R. Tolkien has been my hero since I first read The Hobbit at the age of eleven, and continues to be the inspiration for everything
The Tolkien Reader is made up of four entirely separate sections: The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth Beorhthelm’s Son, Tree and Leaf (which is, itself, made up of two separate entities), Farmer Giles of Ham, and The Adventure of Tom Bombadil.
Tree and Leaf is actually two separate sections as well: a short story titled Leaf by Niggle, and a (now famous) essay by Tolkien called On Fairy Stories.
The fourth section is where we dive back into the realm of Tolkien’s most famous world – that of Middle Earth – in The Adventures of Tom Bombadil.
Out of all the writings I really enjoyed Leaf by Niggel the most because I understood the story. The language used in the story was easy for me to understand and it was easy for me to picture the events that took place. Everyone has that author that they want to collect all their works and for me that author is J. R. R. Tolkien.
Read some of these stories for my Literature Class on Tolkien and Lewis. This was a pleasant read and very informative as to the way Tolkien writes his books. "On Fairy Stories" is an absolute must read in this book.
Is a good book if you can make it through the 80 some page essay on fairy tales and fantasy. (Which is a good essay, but a little hard to hack at 80+ pages) The Big D picked it out for me to read because it had some stories in it that he tought I should read.
Tolkien's understanding of languages never ceases to amaze me, but his imagination is even more amazing!
