https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184657.Memorial_Day
The plot was everything you could want in this sort of story, a one man army interrogating hostages to find out about a plot to let some big bombs of in Washington on Memorial Day and then the fun and frolics of trying to stop these events from unfolding.I say this was Mitch Rapp turned up to 11 because, well he doesn't like terrorists in any of the previous books but, in this one he just goes mental on them.
Great escapism for a couple of days, it won't blow you away; but Mitch Rapp might if you question his methods!

Heading into a remote village in Afghanistan, Rapp locates an Al Quada stronghold and easily defuses the plot in America.While the politicians do their back-slapping good-ole-boy gig; feeling that they have once again been spared, Rapp realizes that the plot was too easily defused, meaning that the true attack is still in progress.Flynn takes his readers into the realm that no one wants to acknowledge truly exists with page turning adventure and psychological thrills that begin on page one and cease on the last page.
Flynn offers his readers a chance to think, feel and acknowledge that 9/11 was not the only attack Americans have had to deal with.
4.5/5 stars (rounded up to 5)The Real Book Spy recommended this book for Memorial Day reading and he was not wrong.
What happens when you have al Queda (this was written in 2004) smuggling a nuclear bomb in to the US, the expiration of The Patriot Act, the beginning of an election cycle and The Memorial Day dedication of the WWII monument?
I have not read any of the earlier books in the series except American Assassin and didn't feel like I was missing anything important to the story.
You can bet I am now going back to get myself all caught up on this series!
Memorial Day was too exacting in it’s details that the agency put the book on “security review” because they suspected that maybe Flynn’s sources may have told him some classified information.
As he goes about interrogating prisoners we find that the novel is an argument for the use of torture, The theme of the story is that Washington needs to keep it’s hands off the CIA entirely.This is the only book I’ve read of Flynn’s.
It’s full of fascinating little facts about the inner workings of FBI, CIA, and yes the Department of Energy.
This book was too formulaic for my tastes.
All characters were nothing short of arrogant, ego-driven, "superstars".
Not a single character managed to say anything insightful nor did they possess the ability to be introspective about their circumstances.
As a result, I was not able to emotionally connect with a single character in the novel.
On the bright side, this book prompted me to learn a bit about Acute Radioation Syndrome.
Is it really to one's advantage to follow rules by the book when dealing with such matters?
The author certainly supported the Patriot Act in this novel.
Despite the energy of the city, CIA operative Mitch Rapp senses trouble and the intelligence gathered is pointing to a major terrorist attack on the United States.
Their target: an Al Qaeda stronghold, once there, Rapp and his team discover plans for a catastrophic nuclear attack on Washington DC.
With Memorial Day closing fast, a way must be found to prevent a disaster of unimaginable proportions.
The counterterrorism team is on a quest to prevent a tragedy...Vince Flynn is a great action thriller writer.
Fans of the TV program "24" will love this fast pace book, action is quick and dirty, highly entertaining.
Politicians are not experts in protecting our country; the Patriot act is a good thing; Islam is a peaceful religion except for the radical elements; and liberals are just getting in the way of truly protecting our great nation.Despite all of these right-wing stereotypes Flynn delivers a truly page turning experience.
Maybe the book is a bit preachy, but it certainly delivers on excitement and the testosterone drenched excitement that one has come to expect from a Vince Flynn novel.An added bonus: I was taken aback by how some of the assumptions (?) made in the novel (That Pakistan is not really an ally) has proven true in the contemporary news media.
Vince Flynn writes political intrigue better than anyone I've read.
I think his books are all great reads although this may have been my least favorite so far.
Maybe I'm getting over dosed on the overall concept but I think in the case of Memorial Day, I missed the personal interactions with his wife (there was almost none) and also with Irene Kennedy.
I would also have liked more about Kennedy's views on things.
Overall though I really love these books and plan on reading at least the next one, which I think is Consent to Kill.
Although liberals and the ACLU would no doubt be horrified by the tactics of our protagonist, Mitch Rapp, I firmly believe that the general population of readers will find themselves cheering his methods of extracting information as he attempts to track down a group of terrorists attempting to cripple the infrastructure of the U.
My first Vince Flynn book, Term Limits, hooked me completely and I have been a Vince Flynn fan ever since.
If you like complex, action packed thrillers featuring the most elite of alpha males, then Mitch Rapp is your kind of man, and Memorial Day is your kind of book.
If I had been against the torturing of suspected and/or known terrorists before reading this book, I would not be now. It's a terrific thriller and totally relevant to the current times in which we live. It isn't always pretty and most of the time horrendously ugly and violent but there are times when extraordinary measures are appropriate for the sake of winning a war against an incredible evil.
Vince Flynn writes about a character called Mitch Rapp who is a tough go-get-em kinda guy. Total tough guy that gets the job done. I love a good character series and Flynn creates a great series with this character. All the books are good!
I can describe Memorial Day simply with “action-packed intensity,” but that would make for a boring review, wouldn’t it?.First of all, this is one of the very rare occasions where I picked an audio book both my husband and I enjoyed.
We love listening to books on our road trips; however, it usually ends up with him listening to something about vampires, or me becoming terrified by something by Stephen King.
I highly recommend this for your next road trip or just as a quick read (or listen) for a day at the beach.
George Guidall's excellent narration.Published in 2004, this story was meant to be a warning for a political change for America.
I do not think that he saw the Obama administration coming.A great piece of relevant thriller that very well could be tweaked to a "this is the attack was not avoided".
i.e. Intelligence officer George Patton, submitted a report, in 1937, about how the Japanese could and would, invade the Hawaiian Island Military Division.
Roosevelt's administration ignored this even though they had chosen a side in opposition to Japan's military expansion.
One positive sign was that Anna wasn't present though Mitch is still wrestling with his wife's unhappiness over his career and is constantly telling her he's sorry.I enjoyed the bomb threat plot, or rather, I enjoyed Rapp's 'take charge not take shit' attitude and his refusal to play the games that politicians and the Washington DC hacks live on.
It's highly unpolitical of me but when Rapp told Al-Adel "We will nuke your beloved kingdom all the way back to the stone age" I wondered if the US could do just that to Syria and wipe ISIS out.
If those very people knew of the existence of the Facility they would fly into an indignant rage that would result in the partial or complete destruction of the CIA.
These haters of America’s capitalistic muscle wanted to analyze what we had done to evoke such hatred from the terrorists, all the while missing the point that they were using the logic of a seedy attorney defending a rapist.
America was a rude and arrogant country run by selfish, colonialist men who were out to exploit the resources of lesser countries—maybe we were asking for it?
Lots a credible and incredible action that kept me listening way beyond my sleep time!
I had listened to it before but circumstances meant I took way too long to finish it.
I tackled it again due to the need to stay in bed for a few days so I managed to finish it in about a day and a half.
I am not into clichés much but the latter half of the book was the audio equivalent of a "page turner" for me and there was much more to the story this time than a couple of years ago.
This series just keeps getting better. Yes, the characters tend to be one-sided in that they are wearing either white or black hats. Yet, the story moves along quickly with a peppering of personality clashes, shady politics, subplots, much tension--you know the drill. The author makes the story complex enough so that, even when you know what's going to happen, you don't know how it's going to happen. At this point I am hooked on this series and will go on to the next one.
I love this genre...Vince Flynn is a master. Long live Mitch Rapp! :-)
Another white knuckled thriller...after reading Baldacci's Zero Day with John Puller, it is too bad that Rapp and Puller couldn't meet...two bad asses who don't put up with BS.
I should know by now that I'm going to love the hell out of any Flynn book I pick up but Memorial Day was a true beast.
What a cathartic character!Memorial Day starts with subtle rumblings of a murky but serious terrorist threat looming on America's horizon.
'Atta boy, Vince!So, if you've already looked at the stars, you've noticed I gave Memorial Day four of 'em instead of the full five.
Four stars for Memorial Day. It really is delightful fiction!
“Dan Sjećanja” je prezabavna knjiga koja mi je uljepšala ljeto i definitivno najuzbudljiviji triler koji sam pročitala ove godine.
Navodno su svi nastavci u serijalu dobri (prošle godine izašao je i film temeljen na prvom nastavku), tako da mi je ovo definitivno pouka da i ostale moram pročitati čim-čim prije.Originalnu recenziju možete pročitati ovdje: https://knjigesumojsvijet.com/2018/08...
Well, America's top-secret tough guy, Mitch Rapp, is at it again - this time trying to prevent the detonation of two nuclear bombs by Islamic terrorists - in the United States!
These books make me wonder a few things: are there really people out there, taking care of the bad guys, while hundreds of millions of people in our country are kept in the dark about their operations?
Are there really top-secret military installations built into mountains to the west of Washington, D.C?
Can't wait to read more of these books.
This might be my favorite in the Mitch Rapp series!
Once again, Flynn has exceeded my expectations with the combination of cinematic pacing, economic dialogue and plot threads that twist my head in knots only to be resolved with a very satisfying conclusion.Time is ticking and Mitch Rapp delivered once again. Full throttle into the eighth book (Consent to Kill) coming up!Update (Oct 4 2017) - chapter 40 of Consent to Kill was breathtaking. Non stop, true Flynn style. Highly recommend it!

Mitch saves Washington from nuke.
Word is out via islamic chatter that something big is afoot for the terrorists, and Mitch plans a snatch op on the Pakistan-Sfghani border to capture high value Al-Queda operatives.
Intensive interrogation reveals that the terrorists plan to explode a nuke on US soil in DC, specifically to take the President and senior leadership out on Memorial Day. Unfortunately, the op is in play by the time Mitch returns to the states and he calls for leadership sequestration when they find the plutonium on an inbound freighter docked at Charleston.
After the last two books I'd read by Flynn I was afraid the series was starting to slip a little, like when Sean Connery and Roger Moore were both cast for their roles as James Bond, their first 5 outings were good but during like their last few they were just getting tired out, which no disrespect to either of them, they were both great as Bond.
This time, CIA Superspy Mitch Rapp is sent to Afghanistan to apprehend multiple al Qaeda operatives who are planning a nuclear strike on Washington DC on Memorial Day. The plot was very engaging and right to the point!
will pick right up where Memorial Day left off.
Mitch Rapp is back to his old self in this this book.
Very little time spent on his personal life and there is much more action then in his previous book, "Executive Power" Mitch gets involved first hand in some great black ops.
His unwavering determination to do the right thing and not be concerned with politics gets him in some big trouble with the powers of Washington, As we've all come to realize, Mitch really doesn't give a s**t what anyone thinks, even the President of the United States.
Mitch is in classic form when he loudly expressed his feelings openly during several executive meetings.
Another Flynn novel that takes me back to my first reading of other greats like: The Day of the Jackal, The Dogs of War, Shibumi, The Ninja, The Brotherhood of the Rose and The Parsifal Mosaic.
