https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/591978.Pinball_1973
The second book in the "Trilogy of the Rat" series, it is preceded by Hear the Wind Sing (1979) and followed by A Wild Sheep Chase (1982), and is the second novel written by Murakami.The plot centers on the narrator's brief but intense obsession with pinball, his life as a freelance translator, and his later efforts to reunite with the old pinball machine that he used to play.
شخصیت اصلی داستان مردی ست که زمانی با یک دستگاه خاص، پین بال بازی میکرده و آن کلوپ بسته شده؛ و او سعی دارد آن دستگاه را باز هم پیدا کند ....؛ بخشی از متن کتاب: ناهید سیاره‌ ای بسیار سوزان و پوشیده در ابر است.
I took a long look at my reflection in the window.
It was the face of the twenty-four-year-old guy you sometimes sit across from on the train.
My face and my soul were lifeless shells, of no significance to anyone.
My soul passes someone else’s on the street.
Hey, it says.
Hey, the other responds.
Neither looks back.Another one of Murakami's earlier works, Pinball is just his second novel.
Here, the narrator from Hear the Wind Sing describes his brief obsession with pinball.
The book contains some of the elements that we eventually relate to as part of the Murakami aesthetic.
The Rat is just a moody barfly who drinks beer and doesn’t do much else – I really don’t know why Murakami kept putting him in books as a recurring character given how dull he was.
There are bits and pieces of the book that are intermittently interesting like the section on the country well digger, the history of the pinball manufacturer and the twins, who were just strange as they didn’t seem real.
The narrator talks about meeting people from Saturn and Venus at the start, the pinball machine is called Spaceship, so… ?
'Pinball, 1973' is not a particularly engrossing novel.
There are still the following good reasons to read it.1.
It is short, simple and a quick-read.2.
Its Murakami-ness.
The novel itself is not as strong as his later novels, yet a flavor of familiar Murakami elements is present which grew and developed into his later work.
Interesting and unusual metaphors, lovely descriptions of natural scenery, moving passages about human desire and feelings are a delight to read.This is certainly a worthwhile read for anyone interested in understanding the development of Murakami's body of work.PS: A soft copy of the book can be found here: www.betz.lu/media/users/charel/pinbal...

سه روز طولاش دادم. اوایل سخت جلو میرفت. کمی نامفهوم و شلخته بود. نیمهٔ دوم کتاب اوضاع بهتر شد. در انتها به این فکر کردم که اگر کسی بخواهد دربارهٔ پوچی زندگی مدرن چیزی بنویسد؛ حتمن این شکلی از آب در میاد و بعدتر به بودا فکر کردم به بینش شرقی در تقابل نگاه علت جویانهٔ غرب، این که چقدر به دنبال چرایی چیزها هستند. در مقابل به قول بودا: به جای فکر کردن دربارهٔ ذات زندگی، تنها در رودخانهٔ زندگی شنا کنید. این کتاب توصیف خوبی بود از شنا در رودخانهای که مدرنیته، گندآباش کرده است.
سه روز طول‌اش دادم. اوایل سخت جلو می‌رفت. کمی نامفهوم و شلخته بود. نیمهٔ دوم کتاب اوضاع بهتر شد. در انتها به این فکر کردم که اگر کسی بخواهد دربارهٔ پوچی زندگی مدرن چیزی بنویسد؛ حتمن این شکلی از آب در میاد و بعدتر به بودا فکر کردم به بینش شرقی در تقابل نگاه علت جویانهٔ غرب، این که چقدر به دنبال چرایی چیز‌ها هستند. در مقابل به قول بودا: به جای فکر کردن دربارهٔ ذات زندگی، تنها در رودخانهٔ زندگی شنا کنید. این کتاب توصیف خوبی بود از شنا در رودخانه‌ای که مدرنیته، گندآب‌اش کرده است.
Have I not read A Wild Sheep Chase last year, I would probably find this book less engaging than any other of Murakami's later works. But this one is a prefect chain in the evolution from "slice of life" of Hear the Wind Sing to the bonkers of the Wild Sheep. And it's as always cozy, funny and warm in the only possible Murakamish way. Still, I prefer my Murakami with more supernatural to the story. No ice, but well shaken, so to say. 3,5.P.S. Fun fact - Rubber Soul is the only album by The Beatles that I own.
'Hear the Wind Sing' seems to show early signs of Norwegian Wood, but 'Pinball, 1973' seems to be an early protonovel that would develop into Murakami's strange, dream-like later novels.My first exposure to Murakami was in my early college years.
I checked out A Wild Sheep Chase (The Rat, #3) one summer from a military library and after I read it, but before I returned it, the library had mysteriously burned down.
It was now mine.Both 'Hear the Wind Sing' and 'Pinball, 1973' are novellas best left to Murakami completists.
به خودم می گفتم حقش واقعا دو ستاره ببشتر نیست اما رو به پایان که رفتم بهم بیشتر و بیشتر چسبید تا اینکه وقتی تموم شد دیدم که نه، کتاب خوبیه.
فصل گفتگو با ماشین پین بال در انبار بهم خیلی چسبید.
خلاصه اینکه به عنوان دومین کتابی که از موراکامی می خونم - بعد از "به آواز باد گوش بسپار"، که هر دوی اینها از آثار اولیه ی موراکامی اند - تجربه ی خوبی بودترجمه اشم خوب و معقول بود - یه جاهایی فارسی اش فقط به دل نمی نشست.
"It’s like Tennessee Williams said. The past and the present, we might say, “go like this.”The future is a “maybe.”Yet when we look back on the darkness that obscures the path that brought us this far, we only come up with another indefinite “maybe.” The only thing we perceive with any clarity is the present moment, and even that just passes by."This is Murakami's second book. Like its predecessor, this one is also nostalgic, in a whole different way though. I also found it darker and a bit tric
"It’s like Tennessee Williams said.
The past and the present, we might say, “go like this.” The future is a “maybe.” Yet when we look back on the darkness that obscures the path that brought us this far, we only come up with another indefinite “maybe.” The only thing we perceive with any clarity is the present moment, and even that just passes by."This is Murakami's second book.
Like its predecessor, this one is also nostalgic, in a whole different way though.
I also found it darker and a bit trickier.
Like any Murakami, god knows how many symbolisms I didn't get...
«کتاب دوم از مجموعهٔ موش»کتاب اول (به آواز باد گوش بسپار) رو اخیراً خوندم که دوستش داشتم. این کتاب هم تو همون حال و هوا بود؛ تقریباً همونطور ساده و روون بود. منتها چندان حرف تازهای برام نداشت.
«کتاب دوم از مجموعهٔ موش»کتاب اول (به آواز باد گوش بسپار) رو اخیراً خوندم ‌که دوستش داشتم. این کتاب هم تو همون حال و‌ هوا بود؛ تقریباً همون‌طور ساده و روون بود. منتها چندان حرف تازه‌ای برام نداشت.
I read this after A Wild Sheep Chase and Dance Dance Dance.
At the time, it was INCREDIBLY hard to find in English or French translation (as was the first of the series Hear the Wind Sing!) I finally found it in a PDF I believe and loved it.
I believe this book and Hear the Wind Sing are now available in a single volume.
I would probably recommend reading The Rat series in the order he wrote it: Hear the Wind Sing, Pinball, A Wild Sheep Chase and Dance Dance Dance.
Finally, I have the Holy Grail of Murakami reads, available to you for $5000 in print form, or free online.
***********************************************************Aha, here are the true first sprouts of the Murakami we know and love, the thoughtful, shy musings on routine, emptiness and evil, the very beginning of his interest in cats, the occasional well-chosen metaphor that makes you think, "I bet no one ever though it just like that until he came along." This is a love story, between a man and a pinball machine, the Space-ship with three flippers.
And between another man and a bar, no flippers.
*Inconsequential Spoilers*Second book in his career when Murakami started taking writing seriously and as a full time job.The writing is much more intact and perhaps more carefully stitched together when compared with Hear The Wind Sing.Starts off with a twin set of girls appearing on the narrators bed one day and acting like everything is normal. They make him, tea, coffee, lunch dinner etc...and basically live with him.Then the elusive 'Rat' comes in the scene whoc doesn't really have a part t
*Inconsequential Spoilers*‎Second book in his career when Murakami started taking writing seriously and as a full time job.The writing is much more intact and perhaps more carefully stitched together when compared with Hear The Wind Sing.Starts off with a twin set of girls appearing on the narrators bed one day and acting like everything is normal.
They make him, tea, coffee, lunch dinner etc...and basically live with him.Then the elusive 'Rat' comes in the scene whoc doesn't really have a part to play in the story of the narrator this time.
Really more of a novella than a novel, with the flavor of Murakami's short fiction.
I enjoyed the first-person POV chapters much more than the third person sections about The Rat (this book is the second in the author's "Trilogy of the Rat").
While certainly not as weird as anything in Murakami's best-known novels, the story has a sort of fuzzy, other-worldly quality that puts you in the frame of mind of the two lead characters, both of whom don't quite seem able to connect with the world.Though never officially released in the U.S., you can easily find this online as a PDF.
As with Hear the Wind Sing, this book traveled from Japan to New Orleans in November via my son and then traveled back to Japan with me the following month, because it's small and lightweight, easily fitting in my carry-on, though this one I read on a JR train and not on the plane."Pinball" is a slightly more complex story than Hear the Wind Sing (though it's somewhat of a sequel) with hints of what's to come in the last of the Rat trilogy, the even better A Wild Sheep Chase.
He -- and we -- will find out the answer to that in A Wild Sheep Chase.
I'm really glad I decided to read this book after "Hear the Wind Sing." It's almost like watching a bird take flight for the first time, developing into something miraculous. This book is different from some of the later Murakami works I've read, but there is even more of what I've really come to get into than "Hear the Wind Sing." You can really see Murakami's style develop. I do note a beautiful, mournful note in this book. It penetrates and reverberates through you for a while afterward. A must read.
بعد از مدت ها موراکامی خوندن مثل بهشت بود واسم. ^__^
I love how it was an easy reading-- straight forward, no twist whatsoever.
Perhaps Rat's story, or maybe Mr Narrator himself.
The flashback of study life to working life, to Rat to J and the twins-- I love the twins!
One thing fascinates me, the flow of the story on how each moment been captured was too beautiful and phenomenon.
I love all the details, metaphor and story-telling.
Narrator loves for the Spaceship and its discovery.
Lovely and sad at the same time.
What you've been missing, the happiest and saddest moment.
It was a lovely read, somehow-- gentle and tuneful.
I don't feel it made a lot of sense as a standalone novel, but I liked the mood and suspect it might work better as the second part of the Hear The Wind Sing/Pinball, 1973/A Wild Sheep Chase trilogy.
I read A Wild Sheep Chase too long ago to remember it all that well and Hear The Wind Sing remains elusive until the publication of its retranslation along with a retranslation of Pinball later this year: Wind/Pinball: Two Early NovelsHere's an excerpt that sums up the general mood: On any given day, something claims our atte ntion.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.Murakami.
Despite an unfortunate entanglement with a Mr. Sean Lennon over the internet site: tumblr, I still enjoy his writing.
I was snobbishly told that I wasn't on the "IN" of Japanese literature, apparently Ryu is the real deal.
He's on my list for sure, but you can't strike Haruki off like that.
I know not everyone likes him.Anyway.
This was a fun, easy read.
Nothing spectacular but chock-full of Murakami repetends.
Cats, check.
Wells, check.
Sparse prose, check.
Passive first-person narrator who is strangely popular with the ladies, check.
And 1Q84 is coming today!
What a great way to celebrate.
It is probably just my fault reading this right after HM's first novel, but the normal bag of tricks just didn't work for me. And maybe I am just cranky from too much air travel, but his one-dimensional female characters that only exist in the orbit of the men really started to irritate me (none of the females in this book were given names).
به کتابی که ۵۰ صفحه اش سانسور شده چه امتیازی میشه داد آخه؟چطور روشون شده یه همچین کتاب بی سرو تهی رو چاپ کنن؟
číst zároveň Murakamiho prvotiny a Spisovatele jako povolání, je něco, co chci asi dělat častěji.čtete dílo a zároveň k tomu máte volně přístupné různé poznámky, myšlenky a vzpomínky autora z té doby.
to, co zrovna prožíval.
to, co škrtnul a přepsal do nové lepší podoby.
je to jako by vám odhalil klíč k celé věci a navíc se vám odhalil sám.
přitom víte, že tohle může napsat jen a jen tento člověk.nemůžu se zbavit toho magického pocitu z toho, že čtu jeho knížku z roku 1973.
ještě s tou omáčkou, co jsem dostala gratis.a taky, že nejsem schopná napsat o příběhu samotném.
(I read the Goossen translation.)Read Pinball, 1973, and enjoyed it more than his first, both four stars.
Again, there was a scene reminding me of Bradbury - his electric light circus of Something Wicked This Way Comes.
In Pinball it's a warehouse full of pinball machines all whirring to life with the throw of a switch.
Also reminiscent of 1Q84 with the lone dog at the lonely distant rail station.
Pinball is partly a story of despondency after the end of a relationship.
Pinball, work, beer and the company of twins, like Thing One and Thing Two, somehow help the young narrator get by...
"You write well, you argue clearly, but you don’t have anything to say."This line from Chapter 9 of Pinball, 1973 sums up how I feel about this book. How I feel about Haruki Murakami's works in general, in fact.
I read once that this one and Hear the Wind Sing are Murakami's favorite ones.
Read these two in order to start A Wild Sheep Chase.Hear the Wind Sing was not impressive (actually nothing was impressive after Kafka on the Shore).
It was not Murakami-esque, but it was simply a normal book to read.
2 different stories told by the same person - one about himself, and one about his friend the Rat. What was this book about?
If you want to start A Wild Sheep Chase, just read the plot of former two in wiki.
i enjoyed the last 40 pages of this - something resembling a plot actually happens! yay! haha. but still, similar to the first book in this story, i found myself a little bored with this. ive heard the next two parts of this are better, so i will most likely continue with the story.  3 stars
You really feel like you are in the head of the characters as they say and do the things they do.The book left me sad, more of a vague heartache, a sense of not belonging, a distant kind of gloom;of being in the midst of things and still being miles away from it,of not having your heart and soul in the life you are living.
How we try to latch onto things, rather the idea of things, hoping that it would bring some sense of purpose in our life, in the hope that if and when we do achieve it, we will be complete, or at least a part of us would be.
It's nothing easy to review a Murakami even though this is just my second read.
It's also one of his first writings which just recently got published.I say it's not easy because this is a short book.
A snippet of what his work is like.
This was not as random as the first part(Wind), it had more of a story or events that were consistent all way through.And as per one of his quotes, it did have an exit just like it has an entrance.
Well somehow.I enjoyed reading the narrator's encounter with the twins and the pinball.
Read it!
Get introduced to the world of #murakami
