https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/505556.Death_and_the_King_s_Horseman
Creon and Antigone are both given the opportunity to develop their thoughts, and both could possibly have acted differently and been justified to do so.The most interesting character, in my opinion, is Olunde, the Horseman's son, who has spent four years in England to train as a doctor, and who comes back with the idea that he wants to support his old Yoruba tradition.
Wole Soyinka has written a powerful drama which treats of culture clash, ancient and modern custom, racial assumptions, entitlements, the clash of the sexes and of religions as well as of history.
The power of the King, the power of his place in his people's lives, the power of the chief horseman in his last days, the power of the women of the tribe who act as goddesses or priestesses or intercessors.Then there is the institutional power of the colonial district officer which has no custom behind it, only foreign law which is unrelated and unknowing.I do recommend this to anyone interested in African literature.
Death and the King's Horseman tells the story of a man who wants to stay in the realm of the living when he already belongs to the realm of the dead.
The results are tragic for himself and for his nation.
Bravo to Simon Gikandi, editor of the Norton Critical Edition that I read.
His outstanding selection of analytical and expository articles enabled me to properly appreciate Soyinka's brilliant play.
The text is dense.
The play rigorously adheres to the Aristotelian model while eloquently pleading for Yoruba Cosmology.
Death and the King's Horseman is a masterpiece of twentieth century theatre.
University reading. An interesting play revolving around Yoruba culture based on a true story. I found some of the dialogue difficult to read but it would be an AMAZING play to see live.
Which is kind of ironic, since a big theme in this post-colonialist Nigerian drama is the cultural arrogance of western white folks who think that because they've been educated in England, they know best how to interpret and control the cultural traditions of the "natives" colonized by the Crown.
Son of Westernized Anglican schoolteachers and educated in the most toney of Nigerian prep schools before leaving for University in England, Soyinka identified as "truly bi-cultural"; out of this background came a deep grounding in the Western canon, as well as the Yoruba beliefs of his grandfather, and an acquaintance with the ways in which the English thought of their own subjective perceptions as "natural" and "universal," and anything else as barbaric.
First published at: http://www.meexia.com/bookie/2016/03/...Death and the King's Horseman is a play by Wole Soyinka, a Nigerian and the first African to be honored the Nobel Prize in Literature.
The stake is made higher as the Prince is visiting when this event takes place, so Pilkings is desperate to resolve (resorting to postpone) the problem without the Prince noticing.The other important characters include Iyaloja, a matriarch of the market - so in effect, the community; and the horseman's son Olunde who has gone to study abroad in England and come back when he heard the news about the death of the king, knowing the implication for his father.In one way it is very much about the issue of colonization, though Soyinka doesn't like it to be categorized that narrowly, as mentioned in the extra materials of my edition.
From BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:In celebration of Wole Soyinka's 80th birthday, a drama based on a real event in 1940s Nigeria. A colonial district officer intervenes to prevent a local man committing ritual suicideDeath And The King's Horseman is considered to be Professor Soyinka's greatest play. In awarding Soyinka the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1986, the Swedish Academy drew special attention to Death and the King's Horseman as evidence of his talent for combining Yoruban and European culture into a unique kind of poetic drama.Composer and Musical director, Juwon Ogungbe.
A somber and threnodic theme runs through this play. It demonstrates how men's lives are bound up in the cultural bubble in which they were conceived and brought forth; this cuts across races, tribes, ethnicities and epoch.Many today would consider themselves modern, independent and learned as compared to those who lived say 1000years ago. But the truth is if they had been living 1000years ago their world outlook would only mirror and conform to that particular period. Which raises the question; is there really any such thing as 'independent thinking'? Or are we simply products of our environment?
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Yet change is something we all must come to terms with, and since one of literature's great benefits is to act as a mental dress rehearsal for life, this lean play (acessible on first reading, yet rich enough to reread) should find a place on every thoughtful reader's shelf.The university-educated Soyinka (as one can infer from the author's note) has quite the erudite vocabulary, yet the prose style of Death and the King's Horseman reminded me more of ancient Greek tragedy in translation than anything else: simple yet poetic phrasing, and the homespun proverbial sayings of a pre-industrial age.
4.5*Wow!
A powerful play based on a real-life event.
It is thanks to this kind of perverse mentality that I find it necessary to caution the would-be producer of this play against a sadly familiar reductionist tendency, and to direct his vision instead to the far more difficult and risky task of eliciting the play's threnodic essence."With this in my mind as I read the play, I tried to not focus on the conflict between the English colonial government and the Yoruba natives but on the transition between life and death that the King's Horseman is facing.

European and African culture clash over the impending ritual suicide of a chief.
Characters from the two cultures consistently show a desire NOT to understand one another.
Ideas about death saturate the play and reveal deep roots to the cultural differences.
In the end, though, I felt that the Yoruba culture was striking in its similarities to the world's better known cultures.
The play left no doubt that the Yoruba culture is a patriarchy unconcerned about denying rights and choices from women so high-ranking men can enjoy a sexual conquest.
I didn't care for the beginning, which used poetic language.....I was somewhat lost through Act I. Thank goodness, this was the only place I struggled. All in all, it had a good message: don't judge that which you don't understand.
Just something I had to read for class.
This is an incredible play! Soyinka truly reinvented plays with this work. Its shifts in dialogue from very elevated figurative language when the Nigerians are speaking to the more colloquial and basic jargon of the British who colonized the country is fascinating. It explores themes of race, principles and the practice of willing oneself to die. I recommend this play to anyone who has the time to really analyze and understand the language.
So before the year ends, I wanted to read Wole Soyinka's play Death and the King's Horseman: A Play.[...]they acquire the facile tag of 'clash of cultures', a prejudicial label [...] I find it necessary to caution the would-be producer of this play against a sadly familiar reductionist tendency, and to direct his vision instead to the far more difficult and risky task of eliciting the play's threnodic essence.
Filled with ritualistic nuances and a strong emphasis on the conflicts between colonizer and colonized, the play portrays Elesin’s conviction to perform the ritual and ultimate failure in sticking to his words.
Simon Pilkings, a British Officer, not only intervenes in the sacrificial ritual but plays an integral role in sending Elesin’s eldest son Olunde abroad to study, thereby separating father and son.
While the authenticity of the culture of Yoruba natives is kept intact through their dismissal of the colonizers rules, their freedom to practice rituals as per their heritage is denied because of the might of the colonizer.
I really appreciated the blunt nature with which Soyinka described his work, and I found his assertion that it was not a story about colonialism or a clash of cultures interesting.
Soyinka is Nigerian, and wanted the reader to focus more on the Yoruba culture and the life after death theme.
While some of the insults used by the characters are interesting and a nice change of pace from the otherwise bleak nature of the play, they lack any real punch.
It feels almost like he is trying to write in the style of Shakespeare or T.S Eliot, with the abundant sorrow and tragedy of the story.
The critics all agree that the play is a masterpiece of language and style; some compare it to Shakespeare, others I think with more reason to the Greek tragedies (Soyinka was a serious student of Greek literature, and a graduate student of Shakespearian scholar Wilson Knight.) On the politics of the play, there is more disagreement; some Marxist scholars considered it reactionary while others defended it; Soyinka downplays the political aspects of the play to consider it as a play about death and metaphysics.
Two men, both bent on the correctness of their ways, destroy lives in order to prove that they alone know the meaning of tragedy.
Although Soyinka has an opinion on which is right, he leaves that thought to settle in the dust of the play's feverish, enchanted desire.
"Not-I was lately heard even in the lair of beasts...
This same dawn I heard him twittering in the gods' abode.
I didn't like this while I was reading it but my opinion has improved upon reflection. I think it would be better to see this play rather than read it.
Good one !
A thought-provoking, exciting, and multi-layered play -- it was definitely challenging, though, and I know it would be well worth re-reading; I enjoyed discussing it in my literature class.

Soyinka brilliantly seizes on a literary possibility granted him by a painful history: he synthesizes the festal form of traditional Yoruba drama—which he explains at length in an essay included in this volume, "Theatre in Traditional African Cultures"—with European modes (particularly the ironic-tragic pageantry of Euripides in the market scenes and Shavian social satire when treating the dangerously bumbling English colonizers).
Not I became the answering-name Of the restless bird, that little one Whom Death found nesting in the leaves When whisper of his coming ran Before him on the wind. Not I has long abandoned home. This same dawn I heard him twitter in the gods' abode. Ah, companions of this living world What a thing this is, that even those We call immortal Should fear to die. It is based on a true incident and has in its roots, a Yoruba tradition that death of a chief must be followed by ritual suicide of the ch
Sometimes, I think the best way to make people do something stupid is to either tell them that gods asked them to do so or make them look at the thing as ‘honorable’.Now, the ritual suicide is intervened by British government.
It is Elesin that is supposed to be the main character – you are supposed to understand him; understand his wish to do what he had lived all his life thinking he is duty bound to – and to do that you need a mind which has known nothing but Yoruba tradition.
Soyinka insists that this play isn't about colonialism vs. native culture, and instead about the place between life and death. However, he did a poor job of focusing on that because the central conflict of this play is certainly British colonialism vs. indigenous Yoruba culture, and how glorious it is. This play is incredible and really thought provoking. It's a quick and easy read and I'd recommend it to everyone.
In act II, on the same day, Simon Pilkings, a british officer, and his wife Jane are wearing traditional clothes intended for the egungun ceremony which they took away from the leaders of a local religious cult.
Olunde is perturbed by his father’s dereliction and says that he has no father before walking away.During the final act of the play in Elesin’s prison cell, Simon remarks that the night is peaceful and Elesin informs him that the universe will never be peaceful again since the ritual had not taken place.
