https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16326.Death_in_the_Clouds
Death comes as the end (Hercule Poirot #12), Agatha ChristieDeath Comes as the End is a historical mystery novel by Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in October 1944 and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in March of the following year.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: در سال 1995 میلادیاین اثر با عنوانهای: «فرجام»؛ «مرگ فرجام کار است»، «مرگ، نقطه ی پایان»، «مرگ، چون پایانی فرا میرسد»، «مرگ نقطه پایان»؛ «و سرانجام مرگ»؛ در سالهای مختلف چاپ شده است. نقل از متن کتاب: «نگاهش ا
‎Death comes as the end (Hercule Poirot #12), Agatha ChristieDeath Comes as the End is a historical mystery novel by Agatha Christie, first published in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company in October 1944 and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in March of the following year.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: در سال 1995 میلادیاین اثر با عنوانهای: «فرجام»؛ «مرگ فرجام کار است»، «مرگ، نقطه ی پایان»، «مرگ، چون پایانی فرا میرسد»، «مرگ نقطه پایان»؛ «و سرانجام مرگ»؛ در سالهای مختلف چاپ شده است.
نقل از متن کتاب: «نگاهش از روی دره در آن پایین، رو به خط نقره ای نیل کشید و فراتر رفت».
ا. شربیانی
I quote this as an example as the two romantic protagonists get to know each other over dinner:They liked dogs and disliked cats.
They liked Greta Garbo and disliked Katherine Hepburn.
They didn't like fat women and admired really jet-black hair.
They preferred buses to tubes.These people are meant to be the heroes of the text.
It's bad enough to dislike cats and Katharine Hepburn.
That would strike these people off my list of friends anyway.
But to be so openly prejudiced against 'fat women' and 'negroes'?
Yeah, not really the protagonists I like.The whole bloody plane should have gone down in the ocean.
Hercule Poirot at his best. A gripping who dun it high in the air drama. The only case where Jury actually convicts Poirot of murder before their opinion is not upheld.For a change we see Poirot moving around looking for clues rather than solving the case from the comforts of his chair. Interesting read
Every time Poirot travels anywhere, one of his fellow travelers/passengers is murdered. The man is a walking jinx, I tell you.
Υποθέσεις γίνονται και καταρρίπτονται, επιχειρήματα ανταλλάσσονται, η ψυχολογία των ηρώων αναλύεται και τελικά, όπως πάντα, ο ένοχος αποκαλύπτεται μέσα από έναν υπέροχο μονόλογο του Πουαρό, ο οποίος παραθέτει βήμα-βήμα τη συλλογιστική του και τις σκέψεις και τα στοιχεία που τον οδήγησαν στην επίλυση του εγκλήματος.Έχω την πεποίθηση ότι η Agatha Christie δίνει πάντα στον αναγνώστη τόσα στοιχεία όσα χρειάζονται για να κάνει κάποιες υποθέσεις, αλλά όχι αρκετά για να τον βοηθήσει να βρει τον ένοχο.
Ενώ δε ο Πουαρό εκφράζει τις σκέψεις του κατά τη διάρκεια της έρευνας, ποτέ δεν αποκαλύπτει στον αναγνώστη ολοκληρωμένους τους συλλογισμούς του ώστε να κάνει και αυτός τις δικές του υποθέσεις.
This is the book that Agatha Christie wrote after she'd had her run-in with the Doctor, and it shows.
I contend that Jean is the Doctor...
Okay, that was my nerd moment.
It's a fun read, as always, with a good solution.
One nice thing about Agatha Christie is that she gives you all the clues.
It isn't like she says, last minute, "And I knew you were the murderer because your fingerprints were on the gun!" If fingerprints are on the gun (which they never are, of course), you know as soon as the detective does.
She doesn't always give you all the evidence, but the clues are there.
Svi znamo da sve što želim jeste da me zaključaju u sobu s terasom na nedelju dana, negde u planinama, sa kompletnim opusom Agate Kristi i stashom Neskvika i pite bundevare.
Even in a very last moment I couldn't guess the murderer.
Not my favorite Christie, but fun all the same.Of note: Since I first added this book to my TBR in 2008 (thanks, Goodreads!), I have developed a rather bad fear of flying, so this book (in which one passenger is murdered by another) was like, one nightmare scenario on top of another for me.
This one, other than the three nightmare scenarios piling on top of each other, wasn’t actually all that remarkable in terms of the characters or the mystery.
It wasn’t bad at all, but it did feel a little more rote than all the other mysteries I’ve read from her in the past.
No, J.K Rowling isn't quite in this distinguished league yet, but I expect she will be.In this particular book, a murder takes place on a plane journey, in the same compartment which the distinguished Monsiuer Poirot also travels.
Monsieur Poirot must put all his little grey cell's to work to solve the riddle.In typical Agatha Christie style, I suspected absolutely everyone - except the culprit.
In more modern mysteries I can sometimes suss out the murderer by half-way through, but never Agatha Christie.
I've read 15-20 books by her or so, but some when I was so young I hardly remember.
You always know what you get with Agatha Christie - something to tickle your little grey cells"
And Boomslang Venom is a better title than Death in the Clouds, maybe, Agatha?!).
Interesting suspects include a gambling coke addict (in 1935), a detective novel writer and a dentist.In the last book, Christie has Poirot pontificate about the importance of observation: We don’t do enough of it, and surely, we have not observed what he has observed, to prove his point.
(Yes).Detective writer and suspect Clancy hopes to write a novel based on the murder, with an ingenious solution!
But, alas, if you thought he would be useful in figuring out a murder mystery, he says--when approached by Poirot for help--he can only make up stories, he has no sense how to actually solve them.
One of the suspects is a detective writer who is immediately suspected because obviously he would plan out a crime and even admits he was planning an alibi (for a novel of course!), he also complains about how difficult it is to write good stories and how he hates some of his character's tics yet has to keep it because the public loves it (Christie had a well known dislike of Poirot, but kept writing him because the public loved him and all his little quirks).
Reference NotesSeries: Hercule Poirot #13 (1935)Narrator: (3rd person)Recurring Character: Scotland Yard's Detective Inspector James JappVictim: Mme. Giselle (née Marie Morisot)COD: Boomslang (South African snake) venom poisoningSuspects (passengers and crew of the aeroplane):Ms. Jane GreyMr. Norman GaleLady Cicely HorburyThe Hon. Venetia KerrDr. Roger BryantM. Armand DupontM. Jean Dupont (M. Armand's son)Mr. Daniel ClancyMr. James RyderMr. Henry Mitchell (senior steward)Mr. Albert Davis (2nd steward)
3.5/5 starsI was finally able to pick a good one again!Really enjoyed it!Funny story:It was such a struggle to read the end because I was in the car with my family. They kept distracting me and I was like ''Will you please give me a minute!? They're finally telling who the killer is!''It took me FORTY minutes to read like TEN pages (the final ones)!!
Not too much to say about this one besides the fact I really enjoyed it.On a flight we have Poirot on the scene when a woman is found dead before the end of the flight.
I always enjoy it when Christie's books have diagrams in them.
I honestly didn't try to guess who did it and just enjoyed the ride that Christie takes us on.
It felt like a lot of info being thrown at you, but once the killer is revealed you get why Poirot did the things he did.
Death in the Clouds has Poirot trying to solve how Madame Giselle died in her seat on the flight.
At first, he thinks it's because of a wasp sting - which had me so confused because HOW THE HELL DID NO ONE NOTICE A GOD DAMN BEE ON THE PLANE?!?
Again, I'm wondering what the hell kind of flight he is on.
Oh, and the "thank god I'm never on these kinds of flights." PS.
Go read this book people.Just like in Murder on the Orient Express everyone is a god damn suspect - until proven otherwise.
Back in the days when I was really into Agatha Christie, I decided I really only liked her Hercule Poirot mysteries. After reading this, I remember why. They have greater complexity (thanks to Poirot's little grey cells) and fewer boring society details than Christie's other mysteries. I really enjoyed reconnecting with M. Poirot in this story. What's really cool is that I guessed who the murderer was right at the start, doggedly stood by my first guess, and I turned out to be right! That's never happened for me before in one of Agatha's books.
أما دور النشر الأخرى فترجمتها ركيكة نوعاً ما، ولا أحب أن أجد مصطلحات أو جمل مرتبطة حرفياً بالترجمة الأنجليزية.عموماً وجدت في الرواية لمسة مختلفة، فبالرغم من أن حادثة القتل حدثت بشكل بارد غير مثير، إلا أن أجاثا لم تكن لتخيب أملي في وصفها العميق للجو والشخصيات.
والأدهى في الأمر أن سلاح الجريمة – الذي لم يتعدى كونه أنبوب نفخ – تم العثور عليه تحت مقعد بوارو، الذي سيجد نفسه متهماً في جريمة لم يقترفها.حسناً علي التصريح بأنني عنصرية من ناحية ما، فدائماً ما أفضل الروايات التي يحقق فيها بوارو على الروايات الأخرى، والتي غالباً ماتكون فيها الآنسة ماربل هي المحققة.
Hats off to the greatest murder detective in the whole world!!!Just a few words of appreciation won’t be sufficient for the magnificent figure like Hercule Poirot.The novel is about a murder occurred in the ‘prometheus’ plane. The victim was Madame Giselle, the biggest loan provider in the whole Paris. Never imagined that in the end the murderer turned out to be Mr Norman Gale, the dentist, as he was the most auspicious men in the whole novel and had the most decent profession of dentist, so it was really hard to believe that he was the main murderer.
كريستي ذكية بجعل القارئ تائهاً بين الأدلة غير المهمة، ناسياً التفاصيل الصغيرة التي هي الخيوط الأساسية للوصول إلى المجرم. في كل فصل تعتقد أنك ستتوصل إلى المجرم الحقيقي ثم ما تلبث أن تكفَّ نظرك عنه.. لتكتشف لاحقاً أن القاتل لا علاقة له بكل تخيلاتك رغم قناعتك فيها خلال قرائتك.متاهة حقيقية وممتعة، وشبكة من الدلائل الغامضة المثيرة فعلاً في قصص كريستي تجعلني أشعر بالغباء غالباً.. هذا الشعور مضحك رغم جماليته حقاً.
Vintage Poirot: starts with a closed set, continues with a range of disguises, ends with everyone in the library, post-script involves a wedding. These things are meant to be cliched and obvious by now, but I was still surprised.It's been a rubbish couple of days. Agatha makes everything better.
Ternyata pelakunya dia. Kecele lagi.
In this one, the main character, Poirot, is traveling on an airplane where an unexplained murder has occurred.
While I enjoyed the main character and his intelligence, we also get characters like a refined lady who snorts coke.
As for the mystery, I was interested throughout as it seemed like it was impossible.
And I do like a scene that we have all seen where the detective has gathered all of the suspects to reveal the truth.I liked this book and I would definitely pick up another one of this series.
well ,Agatha has written more than 60 novels, she lets her personal style shine and emerge ,,,there are often similar structure. a murder is committed, the detective ( using his little grey cells to solve the mystery )analyses the evidence, then reveals the truth in the presence of all the assembled wittnessesagatha chooses the exact words to convey meaning, she does not challenge us with the vocabulary, because she draws more attention to the plot( having every suspect be an equal murderer, is undoubtedly obvious to most readers)
I absolutely adored this book, the mystery was one that had rarely been a focal point in the other Poirot novels. The construction of the murder was unique and the clique at the end of the plot would get anyone.Originally I was intruigued by the story line of this book after watching a Doctor Who Episode. (The Unicorn and the Wasp). The comparisons to each plot line are there and though there is no giant wasp like the one in Doctor Who the novel is truly a remarkable piece of literature as are any of Agatha Christie's works.
o
One of Agatha's Best efforts... With an ending you won't see coming! At least I didn't. Also the reader is treated to a fun and novel setting for the time an airplane.
And even when they wanted to give up on the case (push everything to the other country!), Poirot just continued on, frustrating the police force by refusing the share what he's thinking.As always, I didn't manage to guess who the murderer was successfully.
In mystery-fluff, I don't bother guessing who the murderer is because there aren't any clues, and the most suspicious people are the ones that the protagonist suspect (then again, these mysteries are always written in first person).The romance in this book is actually not as heavy as some of the others.
The secret is clever plotting that slowly reveals how various elements of the murder were committed and why, but which keep as many suspects in the frame as possible until a final denouement whilst feeding the reader red herrings and leading them down false paths as they try to determine the killer’s identity.
Second, it is almost impossible for the reader to deduce the identity of the murderer before the denouement as some crucial clues are held back and often they are quite outlandish.
Nevertheless, Death in the Clouds is an enjoyable read and Poirot is a delight.
this one was such an excellent enjoyable mystery by my most favorite author ever, "Agatha Christie"one of my very favorite things about Agatha Christie is that when she said anyone could be the murderer under the right circumstances, she MEAN IT !!so Madame Giselle was found dead on her seat in the aeroplane, a mark on her neck made the passengers to think that a bee stung her which caused a heart attack then death, but Hercule Poirot found the real cause of the death which was a poison tipped dart..
