https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22586.The_Crack_in_Space
ENGLISH (The Crack in Space) / ITALIANO"The young couple, black-haired, dark-skinned, probably Mexican or Puerto Rican, stood nervously at Herb Lackmore's counter and the boy, the husband, said in a low voice, «Sir, we want to be put to sleep.
Maybe it's time for the poorest and oppressed people to have a chance.
It's time to awake.The standard visionary Philip K.
Dick.Vote: 7"I due giovani, una coppia, capelli e pelle scuri, probabilmente messicani o portoricani, stazionavano nervosamente davanti al bancone di Herb Lackmore, e il ragazzo, il marito, disse in un sussurro, «Signore, vogliamo essere messi a dormire, vogliamo diventare inerti»"Terra sovrappopolata.
Heinlein where the grandmaster explored elements of racism.
This also examines sexual, moral and ethical issues as they affect overpopulation, prostitution, marriage and political organizations.The first part sets up a future world plagued by overpopulation and political apathy, the second part, where Dick’s genius really comes out, is where a portal to an alternate world is discovered.
References to North American colonization by Europeans, and an exploration of the morality of such an emigration ensues, but only the way PKD could write it, with a hefty portion of hilarious political cynicism.
Sawyer explores this same phenomena and may well have been inspired by this 1966 PKD novel.
(Dick must have liked the name "Jim Briskin"; in his then-unpublished, non-sci-fi, mainstream novel from the mid-'50s, "The Broken Bubble," Jim Briskin is the name of a DJ in San Francisco!) Unlike Barack Obama, whose campaigning centered around the issues of war, economic crisis and health care, Briskin's talking points are a staggering overpopulation problem, the issue of what to do with the "bibs" (100 million frozen citizens awaiting their thaw in a better day), and the shutting down of the Golden Door Moments of Bliss satellite, an orbiting brothel housing no less than 5,000 women.
In a future, overpopulated world, a technician discovers a portal to an alternative earth. Jim Briskin (campaigning to be the first black president) sees settling this alternative world as solution to the problem of the seventy-or-so million cryogenically suspended people warehoused throughout the country. Called ‘bibs’, they have chosen to sleep until the world’s population problem can be resolved. The dominant hominid on this alt-earth it turns out is “Peking Man”—it appears as though evolutio
Regardless, plans to colonize are set in motion, only Briskin and the rest of the world find they are up against more than they bargained for.Dick’s work, I find, is at once completely immersive, haphazard, and packed with ideas to the point of diffusion.
The narrative unfolds through a jumpy third-person POV and touches immediately on themes of overpopulation, race relations, and organ harvesting all stewed together with the mundanities of politics, divorce, and (of all things) vehicle repair.
Ditto with the true scope of the endemic problems that must certainly be troubling society given that people are choosing to be frozen rather than live in the world as it currently is in the novel.
So what if a character makes a hypothesis and then on the next page it's the fact of the novel and you can actually see Dick work things out as he writes.I had several of those moments while reading this one, probably the first time I've had that break with the text.
Dick and he was a genius and he was paranoid and I have been hard pressed to find anyone that can write a story with even a fraction of the magnitude of his imagination or write one like it myself, that almost entitles him to have those plot holes and red herrings that give just that much more character to his books.
I won't even bother to describe the plot.
Suffice it to say that the elements include the first black President of the United States and pre-industrial ape men from another dimension.
The plot is wildly inventive, but the typical Philip K.
Dick flaws are all on full display.
Too much dialogue?
Too many characters resulting in dissipation of focus?
Omniscient narrator with no clear point of view?
Check.
Check.
Check.
Still, if you're a fan -- which I am -- it's not completely bad.
There are better Dick books, sure, but if this is the only one you bring on the airplane, you won't be disappointed.
The basic premise is an over-populated world, where people have the option of becoming 'Bibs'; they are cryogenically frozen, hopefully being awoken when there is more room on Earth or other options such as the opportunity to move to another planet if that technology is available.Jim Briskin is running for President and if he succeeds will become the first African American president of the US.
(I wonder if Barack Obama ever read this story?
It was a thoughtful, clear and well-crafted story and I enjoyed all of it, from beginning to end.
A repairman, however, discovers that the machine has a rent in its fabric that delivers one to a verdant, apparently virgin land that could solve the immigration problem.So PKD has his usual half dozen plots in play, but much centers on that flawed Jerry Scuttler and the fact that Briskin may be able to come through with his promise of closing the bib warehouses, But when the new land is discovered to be a version of Terra itself that has followed a different evolutionary path than our own planet, new racial problems arise with how to treat the inhabitants there.
•This story foreshadows President Barack Obama. When will we have an Asian/Latino president?🤔
With ideas so obsolete and cliched, it reads like a parody of itself. At least in the beginning. I admit that I did not get very far....Oh it feels so good to get rid of these books that I've hauled around several homes in CC... now that we're headed all the way to MO, I've no more excuses to try to read stuff I'm not really interested in.
It is a humorous novel packed with many unique ideas and interesting themes including over-population, politics and racism.Initially, unlike with the majority of PKD’s other works, I didn’t find this novel as interesting as others I’ve read.
But by the second half, my opinion on that changed.
“The Crack in Space” is not a bad place to start with PKD, and if you are already familiar with his work but just haven’t gotten to this one yet, I am certain that you will enjoy it.Another good one by this unique Master of the genre.
Utopistico.Di meno positivo abbiamo che alla fine non ci sono praticamente elementi di speranza, come riassume benissimo Hadley nel monologo che fa al suo capo al termine del libro.
Il che per me è un bene, la positività è riferita solo alla visione del futuro.Visionarietà e tematica interessanti, insomma, anche se guastati da un po' troppi punti di vista -non sempre necessari- e da una non così piccola falla nella trama (alla fine non si capisce come riescano a tenere aperta la falla dall'altra parte, e soprattutto come il mutante sia riuscito a ingannare creature in grado di leggere nella mente.
While technology has advanced, it seems that humanity has not, as it is a world divided by the color of one’s skin, and now there’s a black man running for president.In this world, people are able to zap across continents and off planet in record time using “scuttler” tubes, until a lowly maintenance worker discovers a malfunctioning scuttler tube that has a hole leading to an alternate world.
As news of this other world spreads, Jim Briskin, who could become the first black president, sees a big opportunity.
It appears the "Pekes" have their own technology which is different and perhaps in some ways superior.And, to make matters worse, the dual entity known as George Walt (two humans sharing a single head) -- formerly owners of the Golden Door Moments of Bliss satellite serving as a giant brothel in earth's orbit -- has snuck across and been worshiped by the Pekes as their wind god.Somehow, it all works out in the end, but not without a glacial beginning.
Sometimes, Philip K.
Still, like all PKD stories, it's worth a look.
Philip K. Dick is awesome. Most of the time. Here, he is just good. Not great. It was surprisingly tame for a Dick book, and the usual themes (Psionic Abilities, Reality Shifts, Hellish Introspection) were all sadly lacking. The most we get by way of toying with reality is a barely visited "alternate earth" and a single mutant pimping out women that are sort of half-women or something. Less than human anyway.Worth reading if you already like Philip K. Dick's work, but if you are unfamiliar I would suggest looking elsewhere for your introduction to this otherwise phenomenal writer.
While I see that PKD was going for racial and social commentary, it’s so poorly executed that page by page, I’m not engaged and it’s all just badly written political drama* The first few pages are jam packed with abbreviations and jargon words, many of which are nonsensical and meant to make it sound “future-y.” * Some scenes make no sense spatially (how did that just happen if they’re in a crowded place?)* My edition had tons of punctuation missing.
I’ve read several of his novels, even a couple beyond the standard greatest hits, and this one was by far the worst executed.
Podría ser una buena mini serie sin romance por cómo comienza a mezclar a todos los personajes que tiene en un entramado perfecto, cada uno cumpliendo su rol y teniendo como principal a Jim Briskin, un candidato a presidente negro, los problemas con su entorno y cómo la trama de BiBs (personas que son colocadas a dormir para "solucionar" el problema de la superpoblación), los Cols (las personas de color, de las cuales no son sólo los "negros" en sí mismos sino también los mexicanos y purtorriqueños, junto con los mestizos), y el Salón de los Placeres se van entremezclando.Recomendadísima luego de monótonas lecturas que han dejado sabores agridulces.
Y no es tan larga.También recomendadísima para épocas en las que el racismo hace eclosión en cualquiera de sus formas.
A very rough plot which Dick barely fills in, but what a unique plot. Is this the first sci-fi novel that made use of the multiverse? I can only read Dick occasionally since I worry that all of life will start to bend and distort like his novels. Still, reading his novels is a healthy reminder that all is not as ordered and normal as we think.
Dick ProjectEntry #31 - The Crack In Space (written Sep. 1963-Mar. 1974, published Feb. 1966) Jim Briskin, everyone's favorite news clown, is back for Round III, and this time, he's black!
What really grabbed me straight away, however, was when I noticed that this book, while not necessarily a direct sequel, takes place in the same continuity as a rather minor Dick story he wrote 10 years before this, “Prominent Author”, in 1954.
I was hoping for a plot about the cultural, social and political issues that would follow from men from our world coming face to face with the people from the parallel world, but this never really happens.
Dick’s The Crack in Space (1966), American technology and civilization has advanced so far that citizens can easily take a spaceship to make daily visits to an orbiting satellite whorehouse, personal Jifi-scuttlers are used to warp space/time so that people can quickly travel from home to work in a distant city, and overpopulation is such a public concern that millions of dispossessed Americans have chosen to be put in cryogenic storage until a habitable planet is discovered.Yet, America has not advanced so far in other respects.
Stuff I Read - The Crack in Space by Philip K.
Still, it works out that only the very wealthy can have kids, something that shows the inequality rampant in the system.Really, it's an interesting story and setting, and one that does bring up a lot of good points, especially given how it was written so long ago.
As with a lot of the stories by Philip K.
The crack in space itself is rather insane, and brings a sort of invasion of Earth that sputters out and ends up saying even more about how race effects how we view people.
Dick book, I am never going to attempt another one.
To be fair, I actually liked some of these ideas and I have to give Dick credit for being so inventive, but even the good ideas are explored in pretty shallow ways.Additionally, there are too many characters and too many subplots so it’s impossible to get properly invested in the story.
And the overall story doesn’t end up going anywhere, except in a giant circle.
It’s incredible frustrating to have persevered so long with a weird, messy book only to discover it all comes to nothing.
In an overpopulated world, millions of people have elected to become bibs (cryogenically frozen until the job market opens up), abortion centers are prospering, and prostitution has been made legal on orbiting satellites (to ease "frustrations", while preventing pregnancy).
It's a huge problem faced by the presidential candidates, who must present solutions to this problem if they are to be elected.
I couldn't help but read this and think about the fact that President Obama is currently in the white house.
The race question gets confounded even further once the people on alt-earth are discovered.
I found it a bit shocking that in the 1960s, Dick was writing about issues that are very relevant today, such as abortion, a black president, etc.
As far as a standard Dick novel, I thought it moved a little slowly, and there were some things I wasn't happy with.
Still, even though this isn't one of his stronger works, I'm giving it a solid 4 out of 5 stars, as I think most anything Dick writes is better than the best that most other authors publish....
I can see, sociologically, where Dick was headed with this one.
As always, his novels are daring and ahead of their time.
The Crack in Space was enjoyable, but it wasn't unforgettable enough to pick up again.
Dialogue was a little heavy and vaguely droning sometimes.
The storyline took a while to accomplish anything with.
The amount of characters also never really paid off, they all felt similar except for Jim Briskin in style.
It's classic paranoid Dick though, and the same personality is retained.
I can safely say that while this was not a waste of time, it is not near one of his best works.
A rather straight-forward, for Philip K. Dick, science fiction book about a futuristic election involving the first (potential) black president of the United States, overpopulation, racism, and what happens when one encounters the unexpected. The characters in the book are all flat and dimensionless, while the message underlying message is somewhat ham-handed and doesn't resonate the way it should. Despite this, I found it a nice read, perhaps because it is more approachable and less confusing than many other books by PKD.
Phillip K.
Dick was a working writer and this book has that feel.
It has a muddled, hurried feeling to it.
It is still an good book, though.
P.K. Dick is still more imaginitive and amazing on his worst day than most sci-fi writers are in a life time.
I have read many of his books and even though this one was mediocre it was still completly original.
It raises some interesting moral questions and touches on important issues of his day, today and the future.
Not his best book but enjoyable to read.
I've definitely read better PKD books but The Crack in Space is by no means horrible. It's a creative plot that ends sort of abruptly; it kind of seems like Dick got bored right at the tail end of the novel and decided to wrap it up as quick as possible. Nonetheless, it's a good read for PKD fans, but is probably not the best recommendation for someone just getting into Dick.
The first several (like eight) PKD books I read, I thought he was the oddest most unpredictable author I'd ever encountered. Such inscrutable choices and themes. Now, for like the last three I've read, I'm over that. I guess I'm used to him. And I love his writing more than ever. Still bizarre, but I know what to expect now. I LOVED THIS.
Not one of his better efforts. Too short for the ideas it contains, not to mention an implausible take on social morays. That said, some of the ideas are first-rate and would have been wonderful at a decent length.
