https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84847.Ashes_to_Ashes
3.5 wish it could have been better stars.I wish I could have given this book a higher rating. I think I have been spoiled by SB and her suspense books. This was well written but, to me, it could have been about 30% shorter. Way too long, way too many details in the first half of the book. Not enough time with Quinn and Kate. Some killers are born. Some are made. I will try more from this author. Maybe check out a shorter book the next time.The series is called "Kovac/Liska" - based on two police
3.5 wish it could have been better stars.I wish I could have given this book a higher rating.
I think I have been spoiled by SB and her suspense books.
Way too long, way too many details in the first half of the book.
Not enough time with Quinn and Kate.
Maybe check out a shorter book the next time.The series is called "Kovac/Liska" - based on two police Sergeants in the novel.
I liked both of those characters and would be interested in following up on their story ...
Liked that Quinn was a bit older.
But hopefully soon!I had listened to another book by Tami Hoag last year, and I always wanted to read another.
One thing I really enjoy about Hoag's books (so far) is that she introduces different complex characters, and any of them could be the killer.
I love the surprise aspect, and because I read so many thrillers, I'm getting really good at figuring who the killer is!Enjoyed the cute love lost, love found again romance aspect of this book.
Really liked the audio version, and I am looking forward to reading more by Tami Hoag!I listened to this audiobook through Audible, at my own expense.

The plot has a lot of moving parts (characters) but it was fun trying to second guess who the serial killer was.
I liked Kate and her role as victim advocate, but I didn't like Quinn (FBI guy to the rescue).
Quinn had to grow on me as I think he handled his past with Kate poorly.
She was the damaged one, not him.I didn't like that the serial killer's viewpoint was written in present tense; I don't like present tense or the back and forth of changing tense.
And as an armchair editor, I just have to repeat that it's long winded and I think I would have edited it down a bit.
4.5 bumped up. Good stuff. Believable cast of characters, lots of tension and suspense. Nice details. Very competently written. The only criticism is I thought the killer turned out to be too much of a cliche. Also thought the sex scenes were a little over the top. You know, where both characters climax together and the world moves and fireworks explode in the sky kind of sex...
Anyway, my other problem was with technology and pop culture references which dated the book.Everyone had pagers including Cate who used a pay phone to return a page.
So why did she use a pay phone?
It seemed like someone went through to try and update the technology in the book and forgot a few places because the rest of the book pagers and pay phones weren't mentioned.Then the pop culture references.
The authors uses references to actors in her day as resembling certain characters.
But more importantly, these references date a book.
never underestimate the taste of the American public for pure garbage. The writing sucks, the characters suck, but somehow.....they keep buying it.This may be one of the most horribly written books I've had the displeasure to read. I really tried to give it a chance since a friend told me how much she enjoyed it.....needless to say, I won't follow her advice re what to read again!!!!!I was trapped at home while out on disability and had nothing else to read--that is the only thing that made me stick it out til the painful bitter end.
Even though this is called the first Kovac and Liska book it's really not.
The book focuses on Kate Conlan who is a former FBI agent and her former lover Special Agent John Quinn.
This is a pretty good start to the series that stars Kovac and Liska.
You realize that in the next book, Kovac had a thing for Kate Conlan who he often says resembles Rene Russo.
I did like Kate a lot and wish she show up in future books.
We also get into the "mind" of the serial killer in this book called "The Cremator".
I have been buying Tami Hoag books for awhile and just have never gotten around to reading them.
Ashes to Ashes is book 1 in the Kovak and Liska series, and I am so glad that I finally decided to pick one up and read.
Tami Hoag is a brilliant writer.I loved the characters in the book.
I also loved the premise of the story.
I also loved the twists in this book.
And it saddens me to know that Kate and John will probably not be in future books of this series.
Wish I could rate this book higher, knowing this author wrote a better book in later years.
Cut two hundred pages, change the route to the killer and it would of been a better read for me.
Many people recommend this writer, but this book didn't support the recommendations.
I had to skim the book, or I just couldn't finish it.
Towards the end when the identity of the killer becomes clear, the author gains focus and draws me in as a reader.
I will try this author again since Kill the Messengeris very suspensful, well researched and good reading material.
Mais um cartucho da Tami Hoag explodido, sendo este o melhor que já li, apesar de me ter custado a avançar mais depressa do que o esperado, por motivos que já vou explicar mais à frente.
O corpo carbonizado foi encontrado sem cabeça, o que não permitia a identificação da vítima, mas o assassino deixou perto do corpo, uma carta de condução da Jillian, filha de um conhecido milionário.
Quem foi exactamente Jillian?
Eu teria classificado este cartucho de Ouro, se não fossem o excesso e a repetição das descrições psicológicas da Kate e do Quinn e do romance entre os dois, e também as metáforas que chegaram a entorpecer a acção policial.
This is more a case of I don't care for the pace and language than it being a poor mystery copper read.
And for me, when I am reading I find the pattern of quips in the constant dialog just annoying as hell.
You know how they have the line and then the laugh track.
Then the laugh track.
Then the laugh track.Well, I'm super, super picky on situation comedy.
And despise the laugh track pattern overall.
This seems to me, almost exactly as in that flip pattern of a sit.
Not the one I know.But the style of writing is the prime factor for this 2.
a great opening line "Some Killers Are Born. Some Killers Are Made"this is one of my top favrite books!the descriptions of the "Cremator's" work will have you smelling the stench. this is for sure a "grab you by the throat" suspense thriller that will keep you guessing till the end!
The dialogue between Liska, Kovak & their coworkers is always worth the read.
His first two victims are prostitutes, but when he turns his hand to Jillian Bondurant, the daughter of a billionaire, Minnesota calls in FBI agent John Quinn, world-famous expert on serial killers and related ilk.
As lots of tawdry details are dug up about Jillian (incest, etc.), the killer tortures and murders another woman, kills a small dog (in romance, always a sign of irredeemable evil), then begins to plot against Kate herself.
In the end, Rob takes Kate to her basement and begins torturing her, stabs her in the foot, etc.
Kate Conlan, a former DC FBI agent, now victim/witness advocate for the city, is assigned to work with the killer's one witness.
John Quinn, the country's renowned top profiler for the bureau has been called in to work with the local police and he and Kate have a history.This is a gritty story with a plethera of flawed people who are tasked with finding this killer and solving the case.
The detectives assigned to the case are doing their jobs pretty well in spite of political interference from top brass because of the high profile of the last victim's father (he's a billionaire).
Victims advocate Kate Conlon is called in to help a reluctant witness to the latest murder.
However, things are not at they seem and Kate, together with FBI profiler John Quinn ,must get to the truth before Kate becomes the next victim.
The serial killer plot has potential but becomes bogged down with the characters internal dialogue that is repetitious and tedious.
Kate comes across as cold and distant and John's burn out symptoms overshadow his profiling abilities.
There is too much focus on the various characters' emotional baggage and their constant internal ruminations really detract from the murder mystery and investigation.
Rating: 3.5Review to come.ETA (1/23/16): Son of a mother hen- My actual review was eaten. My shelves were saved but not my review. Fuck.TL;DR- The way the book mocked prostitutes and those who want to help them actually receive help from law enforcement was deplorable. [insert small rant]I was indifferent to most of the characters tbh. Meh.My favorite part was the actual plot, I could not stop reading. The plot twists were very good.
I really enjoyed this book. This book isn't her typical Lifetime Movie/Book. It reads like a suspense novel with a hint of romance. Romance is way in the background in this book which makes it so much more enjoyable. I'm a sucker for a good romantic movie/book but... I want more suspense than romance or else I get really bored. Luckily this book was fast paced enough and didn't have the characters every move about some long lost love. Long story short I really enjoyed this book.
I am sorry but I had to stop reading this book. Gruesome and way too graphic. Decapitations. Torture. Live cremations. Excessive swearing and just silly language by the police officers involved. I won't repeat it here but highly inappropriate language. And the book is too long. I hope she goes well in the future with her writing. I have read others by her and they were a lot better.
Mais um livro excepcional de Tami Hoag!https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
It had me from "Some killers are born." The story follows Kate Conlan, former FBI agent turned victim/witness advocate, a no-nonsense, person grimly hiding her soft insides by being tough on the outside.
The way he is described throughout the book I would never in all of my imaginations pictured this person as being strong enough to carry dead bodies several feet.
All in all this is a fast, fun read with twists and turns to keep you guessing all the way to the end.
This was my first reading from Tami Hoag.
Amoral and nightmare-inducing descriptions of crimes that at times were difficult to consume due to their graphic nature and realism.
My only critique is that the writer tended to be a bit repetitive when developing the characters of the two main love interests - could have done away with about 40 pages in my opinion.
Hoag does a great job with character development....almost too good at times.
That being said, this book is now a favorite of mine: intricate and enthralling plot and sub plots flavored with vivid characters, action packed, healthy doses of dry humor, fast-paced, psychologically fascinating from beginning to end.
Eagerly anticipating reading more by Hoag!
This is the first in the Kovac/Liska series.
I read the third in this series some time ago and am reading the books out of sequence.I enjoyed the story, at 570 pages it's by no means a short novel but for me it was a page turner.
With plenty of twists and turns I was pretty certain I knew who the Cremator was but I was wrong.I found the novel well written and felt that the characters were very believable.
With a good mix between the narrative and the dialogue driven parts.
I'm looking forward to reading the next in this series before long.
Though this book was written several years back, when 'serial killer themes' were highly popular, the work holds up well, due to the considerable skills of the author. Plenty of gore and grit, lots of tension and suspense. The romantic subtheme is predictable, but a pleasant element in the midst of the pace of the thriller. Familiar characters balanced with the new make this a very enjoyable read for fans of Tami Hoag, one of my favorite authors.
Average novel, to read quickly and to forget. The idea is quite interesting, although, the potential not fully exploited. Many too long descriptions of places and some not interesting dialogues of the investigators. The descriptions of the ashed corpses a bit too literal. The strong point is the unexpected ending.
Ashes to Ashes is a murder-mystery/thriller that will keep you guessing and on the edge of your seat!
Engrossing. Well written. Intelligent and sometimes humorous dialogs. Great read! To continue the series.
The 600 page novel should have been cut by 200-300 pages and more time focused on solving the case and finding out who the killer is.I was totally creeped out by the killer in this novel.
First, you got his perspective on the case and boy was he scary!
The media called him the Creamator and it wasn’t until his third victim, where the police and FBI get heavily involved.I read the first 200 pages and I really considered giving up the novel.
I decided to then skim the rest of the novel, just because I wanted to know what happened with the Creamator.
I like this book.
But I don't know if I'm prepared to put the word "really" in front of that statement.I first met Liska and Kovac when I picked up the audiobook "The 9th Girl," from my library so my introduction to them was out of the series' sequence.
It's always fun to be with characters who make you laugh, the constant back-and-forth bickering and zings, the off-the-wall yet somehow fitting portrayal of these so-called "cops" are done right....because they are also revealed as real beings, not just the "ones in blue" with a badge and a gun.
