https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419280.Once_a_Princess
Memory is sketchy, but I filled it in with LOLzy bits and comic relief.I remember something about a tavern wench with a birthmark being a long lost princess(lol, I wonder if that would hold up in court.
I need to collect my long, lost inheritance!), and her being rather lovely, if it weren't for those pesky men harassing her, so she ashes up her face to look like a leper and men are teh scarez of her deathmask, so that keeps them at bay.
*3,5*
This book had me ready to claw my eyes out at 430am, but at the same time had me ready to call my husband home early so he could, er, help me out!
Damn it was good, hot, well written, sexy...
The hero, even with all of his power is gentle, sweet, and super sexy, he's protective, loyal, honest, and courageous for any man let alone he is a KING!
He comes to collect her and she run's more time's then I would have allowed but he is forever forgiving and gentle with her no matter what he thinks she is.
Damn reality, that's why..
Όμως η Τατιάνα δεν είναι πρόθυμη να τον ακολουθήσει, ούτε και να υποκύψει στις προσταγές του, κάτι που θα φέρει τον Στέφαν στα όριά του, μα και στην απόφαση να την αποπλανήσει προκειμένου να κατακτήσει, τόσο την ίδια όσο και τον έρωτά της.Αν και καθόλου του στυλ μου, με μια κάποια ενοχή, ομολογώ πως απόλαυσα ιδιαίτερα το βιβλίο αυτό, όχι για την πρωτότυπη ιστορία του, γιατί δεν είναι, αλλά για τους κεντρικούς χαρακτήρες του.
Απ' όσο γνωρίζω, εκκρεμεί ακόμα ένα βιβλίο για να ολοκληρωθεί η ιστορία αυτή, και το βέβαιο είναι πως το περιμένω με μεγάλο ενδιαφέρον και αγωνία.
Η άποψή μου για το βιβλίο στο site "Book City" και τον παρακάτω σύνδεσμο: Η εξόριστη πριγκίπισσα
Yet, I liked this.I read the 2nd book before I picked up this and only convinced myself that I want to read this today, this morning.
Considering her situation, I really liked her character and the fact that she didn't give in to Stephen's and his friends' vile opinions.
I really want to read the 2nd book again to see his abuse.
Stephen's personality kinda got better at the end, when they didn't have as much sexual tension and emotional turmoil, so I guess it does redeem itself.Worth a read, but you must want to read an abduction themed HR or you won't enjoy it.
The fact that the main hero uses kissing as an anger outlet got me likeMmmk....does this happen to anybody in reality out there in the Goodreads universe?
When I'm angry I go driving and usually find me some donuts or something!
We all deal with emotions in different ways I guess!
I am currently on a quest to find an alternative to Julia Quinn (she is queen aka hard to replace) because I've read all her books...almost.
So I gave Ms Lindsey a whirl!
I will give it to this book-there were some fun moments of this book-fun tension that I liked!
Might go ahead and try another!
All but Tatiana survived because she was sent away.Tanya had a terrible life.
The people who took her in as a baby owned a tavern and treated her like a slave.
Since then, Tanya learned to survive and never cry.Dobb was on his deathbed and promised the tavern to Tanya.
Somehow Tanya was able to survive another night with her virtue, even against the handsome man.
That was the telling mark to know if the tavern wench was really a princess.
She did not want to be married and have another man controlling her life.
But is seems future Princesses don't always get what they want, or do they?
One of my favoritesThis is one of my favorite books.
I have read it several times and it just keeps getting better.
The heroine is really a princess but doesn't know it.
She was never told she was a princess.
The H has scars and thinks he's too ugly for beautiful women.
He likes the h at first because he thinks she's ugly too but if course she's not.
There is an ex-mistress involved and she shows up in the book several times.
Like I said I have read this over five or six times.
The first in the Cardinia's Royal Family series by Johanna Lindsey. I loved this book. I thought it was hilarious. Tanya (Tatiana) works in her guardian's tavern with high hopes of inheriting it someday. All hope of that dies when a group of men come and kidnap her to take back to their country. After all she is their long lost princess and its time for her to take her place by the prince's side.
Love Tanya and Stefan!!!!walaupun rasanya juga pengen tabok Stefan pas ga nolak2 amat ama selirnya, tp yaaaahhh scr keseluruhan ini novel menarik bangett... ampe ga sabar buat menyelesaikannya.tapi tetep gw lbh cinta ama vasili drpd stefan.
But now he has to get her from Mississippi to Cardinia...against her will...Oh, did I mention she is the most gorgeous woman in the world but hides her beauty.And she is a virgin.Oh, and did I mention that the STBK has a couple of scars on his face (like, not a big deal) that he totally needs some therapy about.So this is really a cross between Cinderella and Beauty and the Beast with a makeover scene from Miss Congeniality.With a touch of 50 Shades because STBK gets angry and likes to work out that aggression between the sheets.Whatever.Up until this point, I am not really judging anyone.
Tanya is a serving girl in a tavern in America and doesn't know that she is really a princess from the European country of Cardinia.
Since Stefan's face is scarred from a wolf attack, he is happy that Tanya is ugly.When Tanya meets Stefan and his guards, she does not believe their story that she is a princess and they are taking her to Cardinia.
Stefan cares for Tanya too but is so concerned about his scarred face that he doesn't think a beautiful woman would be interested in him.
I really enjoy this book, and it does not matter how many times I read it there are always parts that make me laugh out loud.This is the story of Tanya who grew up poor and working for a mean spirited man named Dobbs in his Tavern.
Tanya or Tatiana as they say is her birth name is not convinced and believes they are trying to abduct her to sell to a brothel.
There are many interesting moments between Tanya and Stefan and I really enjoyed their characters.
:0)I definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical romances.
The story a little complicated to me, especially at the beginning, maybe I was wrong because my english not so good.Tanya is a princess, lost from her parents.
After sometimes, when she has fully grown up, came someone said she is a princess and his wife to be.
And, his husband to be, Stefan is too arrogant, want to marry her to fulfill his father wished.After each of her escape failed, she finally gives up.
When she started fell in love with Stefan, his mistress came to meet her and said the marriage is only in the name.
Tanya works in a Mississippi tavern - with dreams of soon owning it herself - when along comes a small group of very arrogant men who tell her she's a lost princess and they're going to take her to her destiny.
Yeah, sure, what intelligent woman would believe that line?!
So she does her best not to go with them, and they do their best to make sure she does.
Pretty much a foregone conclusion, since there are 4 of them against one determined, able-to-take-care-of-herself feisty gal.Since this is a romance, you know everything's going to work out at the end, but it's the journey that makes this a fun read; and what an action-packed journey it is!
If you like romance stories that begin with a betrothal/arranged marriage and the hero and heroine start out at odds with one another, you'll probably like this book.
The only thing that might bother some people about this book is that the hero does spank the heroine once and threatens to do it again a number of times - but compared to the abuse she suffered as a child, it doesn't really phase her.
But if you're familiar with this author, you probably already know what I mean.

descriptionONCE UPON A TIME...In a rustic Mississippi tavern, a beautiful exiled princess was forced to dance for the pleasure of others--unaware of her regal birthright ... and infuriated by a magnificent, golden-eyed devil who crossed an ocean to possess her. FROM A FAR OFF LAND...A bold and brazen prince came to America to claim his promised bride. But the spirited vixen spurned his affections while inflaming his royal blood with passion's fire... impelling virile Stefan Barany to take in sensuous and searing conquest the love young Tatiana vowed never to yield.
well, this one is my favorite from all johanna lindsey books!I'm enjoying when stephan and the squad got a hard time with tanya, when she always plan to escape...especially when stephan catch Tanya backswiuhhh.. what a tension~~I like the nickname that Tanya give to Vasili"an arrogant peacock"Tanya really something!!OMG. I really like Tanya character ♥and many unexpected scenes that I never imagined! make this book really interesting
this was my mom's favorite book all time.. dan ianya menular kepada aku.. aku suka cerita ini.. aku suka cerita ni lebih dari novel2 judith mcnaught. i dont know how to review this book. but this book is awesome! first time baca ni, masa tahun 2006..and seriously, tak pernah jemu baca sampailah sekarang...i love this book just like how my mama loved this book...:)
love this better than alex+vasili storytanya is strong womanthis the first romantic story that made me laughreally funny and addorablestefan not perfect man like other story, but made him more cool, dangerous, and funnyi dont believe about his way to vents his anger
Solid 4 the adventures of two headstrong characters had me laughing at their antics. Nice rags to riches tale where our gal was resourceful and disbelieving.
Δείτε επίσης και στο Chill and readΗ Τάνια Ντομπς, μια κοπέλα που δουλεύει σε μια ταβέρνα αμφιβόλου ηθικής στο Μισισίπι, είναι στην πραγματικότητα η Τατιάνα Γιάνασεκ, διάδοχος του θρόνου της Καρντίνια, μιας χώρας κάπου στην Ευρώπη για την οποία δεν έχει ακούσει ποτέ.
Λόγω ενός περιστατικού που τον σημάδεψε, έχει κάποια θέματα αυτοπεποίθησης, που όμως περιπλέκουν περισσότερο την ιστορία, ειδικά όταν αυτά δεν είναι τόσο ξεκάθαρα στους άλλους.
Με λίγα λόγια είναι ένας άντρας που πολλές γυναίκες θα ονειρεύονταν.Από την άλλη, η Τάνια είναι μια γυναίκα που έχει μάθει να υπερασπίζεται τον εαυτό της με τον ένα ή με τον άλλο τρόπο.
מטופש אך חביב.
I can't even remember the other book's name.The plot here is pretty simple: a princess, the last in line to the royal throne, has been betrothed since infancy to the crown prince - whose father took the throne after the a blood feud wiped out all of Princess Tatiana's family.
enter Tanya, the abused tavern wench.Twenty years later, the Crown Prince reluctantly goes to retrieve her for his wedding ceremony, to fulfill his father's dying wish, and boy, is he in for a surprise.I loved Tanya in this book!
And she isn't gullible and bimbotic to believe simply anyone that she is of royal blood.
She believes she is being kidnapped and her cynicism is the most entertaining part of the book.Firstly I loved Tanya/ Tatiana.
She is a great reality check for our men and despite the BS they throw her- she takes it all in stride, with a smile and gives it to them back with a double dose.Stefan, our scarred arrogant prince who takes out anger via hot sex, took me some time to get used to; but his tender moments do prove he is a good hero.
Сега, Стефан трябва да замине за Америка, от където да прибере вероятно прекалено глезената Кардинска принцеса и да я направи своя жена.Кървава вражда, довела до смъртта на всички нейни роднини, отвежда принцеса Татяна далеч от дома й, в Америка, още когато е бебе на няколко месеца.
Тази ми е една от любимите, макар че има доста неща, които ме дразнеха в държанието и на главния и на главната.
И все пак, тази книга е истинска класика в жанра, с много забавни, тъжни и напрегнати моменти.
Има си и своите моменти на романтика и любов, а както винаги Линдзи ни гарантира един запомнящ се хепи енд.
This was one of her higher rated books too.Our boy genius hero We meet our hero first, and after the first scene with his father, we meet the evil OW the mistress - and they have sex offpage.
Enough of that plot line.In fact, the hero finds out his fiancée was a chaste virgin after all in the last chapter, in the very last scene (no, our boy genius did not figure it out when he had sex with her).
At a Glance Safety warnings (view spoiler)[Hero has mistress in the story.
Not as much I did Vasili when I read the second book but he was also a very good Hero except for his anger and how he woks through it.
That was during the time Tanya was trying to escape.
Her trying to escape was all right and well but the author should have made it a bit more interesting.
It was funny how Vasili's behavior was explained seeing as he spent so little time with Tanya in the first place and Stephan spent all his time with her, so I really don't see when he could have charmed her had he been inclined to try.A pretty interesting read.
