https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/592023.A_Field_Guide_to_Western_Birds
My first bird guide and my old stand by.
It has accompanied me on more hikes than my husband and been baptized in the waters of the West Walker River.
Sure, the colors are often quite off , the owl pages are bad and it's a bummer it doesn't show the birds in their most likely habitat.
But, like the husband, just because it has its faults, it doesn't make me want to toss it.
Its frayed edges and waterlogged state become all the more endearing as the years pass.
You will have to pry this bird guide from my dead hands.
It also competes to a degree with the National Audubon Society’s field guides, which are actually in a narrower format and more portable in some cases.(Due to the similarity of the books, if you’ve read our review of Peterson’s A Field Guide to Birds of Eastern and Central North America (Sixth Edition) then the remainder of the review and our conclusion regarding the functionality of the book is identical with only minor changes where appropriate relating to the number of species represented, color plates, and so on.)This Fourth Edition claims substantial overhauls compared to previous editions and Paul Lehman and Michael O’Brien have gone to great lengths to improve the accuracy and provide updated range maps for numerous species while Michael DiGiorgio improved the digitized plates.
I do not like much of his drawings and the distinct lack of variations in species and subspecies he shows.
Sibley does a much nicer job of drawing realistic subspecies as well as clearly labeling right next to the Oregon subspecies that it is Oregon rather than my having to refer to the text.I don't feel the descriptions are always helpful in pointing out distinct features, and I really don't like having to flip 20 pages or so to flip from the main bald eagle entry to a page that depicts the bald eagle from above and below.
because they are often very different.I don't like that the last 100 pages or so of the book are just larger species range maps.
I will always remember the old Peterson bird guide because it contained a separate section for "Introduced Hawaiian land birds." For the life of me I could not figure out an unidentifiable backyard bird until the Rare Bird Alert manager returned my message to tell me that the my "rare" bird was the female house sparrow, only illustrated in the Hawaii section of the field guide.
Peterson's guides have since been updated and reorganized (which would have resolved my problem!).
However the Sibley & National Geographic guides have surpassed Peterson's guide in quality of information and illustrations, IMHO.
I like the content of the book, but the actual publication of it is  terrible ! I am a living room bird watcher, and as such the book has never been outside, but the pages are falling out of it as if I had beaten it to an inch of its life. Poor, poor publication. For me, the living room birdwatcher, it is mildly inconvenient, but I can't imagine using it in the field.
This is our favorite bird identification book because it is the easiest one to use. All the pix of the birds are in the center, so you can flip through them to find the bird you're looking for, then look up the description.
Getting old and raggedy just like all well loved guide books should...
A great book for any birdwatcher
Oh, Peterson, oh...
Covers over 1,000 birds from over 700 species in the western United States; This full color reference book is great for bird watchers of all ages.
Very helpful. I use it often.
Ever wonder what that little flying dinosaur was? Gorgeous illustrations, straightforward layout so you can easily ID the feathered friend in question.
Tight Organization with lots of pictures. Seems cramped
Never fully "read" a book like this, so marked as currently reading. Excellent field guide to birds.
