https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2571737-the-chrysanthemums
To me the tragedy of Elisa Allen is in not being seen, not being appreciated as she is, in being denied an identity, in being invisible as a woman, like Carolin Emcke points out happens so often to people who from ‘our’ own perspective are ‘unlike us’ – ‘us’ in this story the male view, looking at women without really seeing them, as if women do not belong to the same species as men (represented here by the husband and the tinker):  ‘Not being seen, not being recognised, being invisible to others really is the most existential form of contempt.
Kneeling on the ground in front of the tinker, Elisa is in a sexually submissive position, which underlines to readers the alienation and loneliness she suffers.
Similarly, after the tinker leaves, Elisa once again shows a pretty, feminine side to Henry, her husband.
This contrasts with the later scene when Elisa sees that the tinker, the one she holds so much hope and expectations for, has thrown away the pot of chrysanthemums, just as her own husband does.
Both her feminine side and masculine side have been turned down by the male characters in the text, starkly bringing light to Elisa's destroyed hopes, which is symbolized by the abandoned chrysanthemums.
Lo he leído y lo he vuelto a releer nada más terminar. Una forma sutil de retratar el papel de la mujer en un mundo de hombres, un papel que impide elegir una vida diferente al cuidado del hogar o explorar nuevas posibilidades. Y el cultivo de los crisantemos se convierte en el refugio de Elisa, y lo hace francamente bien, pero también se da cuenta que es completamente capaz de realizar cualquier tarea que se proponga, si tan solo le dejaran intentarlo...
This was a lovely little short story of a day out on a ranch in California where the Wife grows beautiful Chrysanthemums.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
So many things had to be trimmed and arranged so they convey the message with least possible words.The strong, beautiful, brilliant yet neglected lady, the normal, mediocre tinker and the husband, they're all the story has.
An arrival of stranger in valley by accident and igniting spark in her life.
Her desires soon thrown away by the stranger like he throws her chrysanthemums plants and also by her husband.
Finally Elisa succumbing to the last resort of tears and hopelessness.Things which are never perfect in real life always make for perfect piece of writing, don't they?
Geçenlerde boșluktan Pucca okuduğum için haklı olarak gülmüştünüz, 300 veyahut 500 sayfa; söz gelimi beğendim ya da nefret ettim hiç fark etmiyor çünkü popüler kültür aracı ve unutulmaya mahkum. Bu tarz kitapların size verebileceği hiçbir şey yok bütünüyle anlamsız, bomboş.Oysa okuduğunuz Steinbeck romanı hoșunuza gitmemiș bile olsa genel kültür olarak yanınıza kar kalıyor. Belki ucundan kıyısından bir his yakalıyor, iki fikir sahibi olmuş oluyorsunuz. Herkese ve her yaşa hitap ediyor.Bu böyle. Yani. Bence.
Steinbeck does a great job of creating an insightful story that portrays ideas such as feminism, gender inequality, patriarchy and gender stereotyping. And considering this was written in the 1930s makes it all the more impressive. Steinbeck was clearly aware and understanding of the plights women faced and still face today. I'd strongly suggest taking the short time to read this. Although written decades ago this story is still relevant to today's society and culture.
So here is Elisa, still young and attractive, apparently childless, living in a farm successfully run by her husband, with her fenced flower garden where she grows chrysanthemums (among other flowers) and that is all she does, tend her flower garden and be a wife to her husband and look after the house.
One day an itinerant repairman of broken pots and pans stopped by when she was alone in her garden and they had some light talk, about his dog who got intimidated by her dogs, his job, the chrysanthemums, and she experienced a stifled joy when the man got interested in her flowers and, make no mistake about it, there was no sexual innuendo here, in this review or in the story itself.
La obra narra unas horas en la vidas de tres personas en el valle de Salinas, Estados Unidos. Y la forma en que dos de ellos, el marido y un buhonero, piensan a la mujer. Las ilustraciones están preciosas y acompañan el aire de melancolía que sentí al leer. Impecable la escritura me cautivó. Pero breve, demasiado breve para mi gusto. Los cuentos no son para mí. Me dejan con demasiados vacíos que me gustaría completar.
Uno de mis escritores favoritos, narrador del realismo social, describe en este breve y hermoso relato la fuerza de las mujeres, representadas todas ellas en la figura de Elisa Allen.En el simbolismo de hacer crecer unos crisantemos enormes y preciosos subyace la idea de la igualdad de género, que es justa, y que el hecho de tener que estar siempre reinvindicando escuece y provoca mucha tristeza, dolor e impotencia.Maravilloso.
Elisa and Her Chrysanthemums  Steinbeck sets the theme in this “The Chrysanthemums” by describing Elisa and her chrysanthemums and how they play a huge role in her life; he describes her being alone and only focused on her chrysanthemums, until someone pays her a visit. The chrysanthemums symbolize that Elisa is isolated; they give her some type of enlightenment to her life and finds escape in taking care of the chrysanthemums, she treated them as if they were her own children. Elisa is in her
As her husband leaves to go get work done Elisa continues to take care of her chrysanthemums, until she is startled by a noise, It was a wagon that had a burro and an old horse pulling the man in it, that had a sign on it.Elisa thought the wagon was just passing but to her surprise it turned into her path way, There was also a dog that was underneath the wagon, as soon as they pulled up to Elisa’s fence.
Memet Fuat tarafından derlenip çevrilmiş Steinbeck öykülerinin yer aldığı, ilk olarak De Yayınevi, ardından da Adam Yayınları'nca basılan bu derlemeyi hâlâ bulmak mümkün ne mutlu ki. Özellikle kitaba ismini veren "Kasımpatları" adlı enfes öykü, ılık havanın buğday başakları, mısır taneleri arasında süzüldüğü, hüzünlü güneylilerin hep bir günbatımını yaşıyormuş gibi adımladığı toprakların en iyi anlatıcısı olan Steinbeck'in belki de kalbe en çok dokunan öyküsüdür.
Another great one by a favourite author. I could read one of these little short stories every day. Maybe I should!
Es un relato corto, simple, bello y concreto que nos replantea el lugar de la mujer en la sociedad.Las ilustraciones son muy bellas♥
It makes you feel that same passion that Elisa has for “The Chrysanthemums” and kind of makes you want to actually help her in her duty.
The story is centered in to the feeling of Elisa and her passion for her garden, specially “The Chrysanthemums”.
Elisa attitude change, now she starts feeling comfortable with the stranger and eventually believes that he could be “The man” she ways wanted to have.
As the story goes Elisa ended up giving something to “The man” to fix with a share of her lovely flowers.
“The man” had no interest on her flowers/feeling; he just wanted to get some money out of her.
John Steinbeck’s “The Chrysanthemums” describes the story of a couple, Elisa and Henry, who live in a farm in the Salinas Valley.
The main theme to John Steinbeck’s story is the emotional life that Elisa leads.
He portrays Elisa as a strong hard-working woman who longs for fulfillment and acceptance from the opposite gender, including her husband Henry.
John Steinbeck utilizes symbolism in his story to portray Elisa’s emotional life and how she is undermined by the male gender.
He asks for things to fix and Elisa rejects him initially, but when the tinker notices Elisa’s chrysanthemums her attitude towards the man changes completely.
The reader feels as stifled as Elisa and there are parallels between the cycle of growth in a flower and a human being.
She immediately opens up though like a flower facing the sun when he inquires about her little patch of chrysanthemums.
She is caught up in the moment and becomes vulnerable to his manipulation of her through the hope that her passions, her aspirations, her very self might matter beyond the tiny scope of her isolated farm.
The entire story is beautifully subtle, but I couldn't bring myself to actually "like" it as I empathized too strongly with Elisa's plight to feel anything but an aching resigned sadness at the end.
Breve relato en el que el autor nos muestra lo opresivo de la vida de la protagonista en un mundo destinado a los hombres, en el que la mujer no puede desarrollarse completamente y tiene como via de escape el cuidar unas flores. Me llego dentro la ultima frase. Las ilustraciones muy bonitas. Merece la pena leerlo, me sorprendio gratamente el ver como en tan pocas paginas y palabras se puede transmitir tanto
I found this story to be of particular interest to me. The theme was terrific, the description beatiful, and the symbolism amazing. I knew I liked Steinbeck's work, but I think I'll be reading more of his work.
Otra pequeña joyita de este autor que en apenas 50 páginas es capaz de hacer un retrato de mujer "granjera" de principios del siglo XX en un entorno geográfico muy duro y con unas condiciones personales también muy sacrificadas. Estupendo.
Heavy with symbolism, Steinbeck manages to create a story that does an excellent job of exploring gender roles in the early 1900's. Although containing beautiful, effective language and description, I, personally, did not particularly enjoy the story.
I'm strong, [...] I never knew before how strong.
Hermoso.
The ending kind of crushed me.
Steinbeck has a way of crafting a sentence that sings like an orchestra.
Her life as a creative and hard working person is in a flower bed.
She gives a flower from the bed to a man that isn't her husband.Her clothes cover her figure.
She wants no help from this man, knowing she can do everything and anything he offers without his help.
I recommend Steinbeck generally to any lover of literature.
I'd recommend anything he's written to give a taste to prove his excellence.
I would recommend it also to old fans of Steinbeck, as I would everything else of his I have ever read.
This was another amazingly insightful story by John Steinbeck.
Set in the Salinas Valley, like many of his stories, this one focuses on the roles women play in society.
We see the story from the point of view of a narrator focused on a hardworking housewife.
The story is written in a way to make the reader want to be even more inside the head of Elisa, thus making us more sympathetic to her, thus getting at Steinbeck's point that society needs to re-imagine women's roles.For Steinbeck to have this insight in the 1930's is another example of just how prolific he was.
Me gustó mucho como está escrita… Con un lenguaje narrativo simple, Steinbeck le da vida a Elisa: una mujer de mediana edad casada con un hombre que no tiene absolutamente ninguna comprensión de lo que necesita.El cultivo de los crisantemos y durante la primera escena en que se la presenta por primera vez, ella está trabajando en el jardín mientras usa su "traje de jardinería" que enmascara por completo su feminidad.
Pequeño relato de apenas 20 paginas donde se ve la maestría de Steinbeck para transmitir emociones.Con solo un puñado de palabras, pero que palabras!, nos pone en situación, nos presenta a un personaje del que nos enamoramos y deja en el aire la mezcla de fatalismo y esperanza que casi siempre impregnan sus obras.Escrito en 1937!, de que forma más sutil y bella nos presenta el despertar de una mujer que se da cuenta de su valor y de sus posibilidades.
Un relato corto precioso. Según la sinopsis representa la lucha de género, pero lo hace tan sutilmente que podría haberme pasado desapercibido.Elisa, una mujer dedicada a su esposo y su granja, se plantea porque hay cosas que, a las mujeres de esa época, no se les estaban permitidas cuando eran tan capaces como los hombres para llevarlas a cabo y como eran utilizadas y engañadas para el propio beneficio de estos.Una historia cortita pero muy intensa y encima maravillosamente escrita.
This was a short, sweet story that had a nice overall atmosphere but with a thought-evoking lesson to be gained. It was interesting enough to keep me reading as well as analyzing by the end. I honestly really like the tone and mood it set and the characters were all pretty interesting and admirable in some ways. It's also a fairly accurate symbol for issues that still exist today such as feminism, gender inequality and societal standards/stereotypes all over the place.
