https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11987.The_Myth_of_Sisyphus_and_Other_Essays
Sartre is an existentialist, and the only book of ideas that I have published, The Myth of Sisyphus, was directed against the so-called existentialist philosophers.”*When compared with different periods of his life, his writings offer an insight into the state of mind Camus was often fraught with.
He is not an easy writer to read, agreed, but his writings are not disturbing, specially if one gets to understand that his writing,in The Myth of Sisyphus, is a declaration of writer’s notion that the life must be lived fully in awareness of the absurdity of this World.
The myth of Sisyphus is surely one of the better examples of having to live constantly with dashed hope, and so I was hoping (all very ironic, when you think about it) that this book might provide some answers or guidance.
I don’t know that this is a sustainable way to live one’s life – when it becomes clear to me that my desires will be constantly dashed, that is one of the hardest things I can think of.
Most of my friends will probably think I'm being sarcastic when I call this as good a "self-help" book as any I can imagine, but this essay honestly inspired in me an awe of human nature and its absurd indomitability.
I think Camus gets a bad rap for being a cold, detached pessimist who only points out the meaninglessness of life again and again in his books.
While I ultimately don't see eye to eye with all his thinking--and if you're at all religious, you should probably save your self the agitation of reading this--but viewing human nature and activity through his eyes in this book has been immensely rewarding.
There is but one truly serious philosophical problem, and that is suicide. Judging whether life is or is not worth living amounts to answering the fundamental question of philosophy. All the rest – whether or not the world has three dimensions, whether the mind has nine or twelve categories – comes afterwards. Only Albert Camus, I believe, could have made that statement.I’ve tried many times over the years to accept philosophical reasoning by reading various books by Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Hus
Only Albert Camus, I believe, could have made that statement.I’ve tried many times over the years to accept philosophical reasoning by reading various books by Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Husserl, Plato, etc.
and the only individual I could equate to was Roger Scruton with his “Philosophy, an Introduction and Survey” with his own specific logic and in particular his views on God. It’s certainly not light reading, rather dry in fact, and looking at this book now I’m even beginning to wonder what I truly felt when I read this twenty years ago.I’ve always had a very high regard for Albert Camus since I first encountered his works at university.
Sisyphus must be humanism in its fiercest form, but is it as heroic as in Camus' idolization?Because there is no assured eternality and reason knows its limit, man is forced into the corner of absurdity.
There is no unity between the man and the world, but there is a unity between man and his own crushing fate.
It is the consciousness of this unity that fills a man's heart and makes Sisyphus happy.
My main objection to Camus' humanism is that it's all consciousness and no action.
As Dostoevsky's underground man shows us, mere consciousness doesn't make a man heroic.
These are games; one must first answer."- Albert CamusTo be, or not to be: that is the question:Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to sufferThe slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,And by opposing end them?
To die, to sleep;To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;For in that sleep of death what dreams may comeWhen we have shuffled off this mortal coil,Must give us pause: there's the respectThat makes calamity of so long life;For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,The insolence of office and the spurnsThat patient merit of the unworthy takes,When he himself might his quietus makeWith a bare bodkin?
The problem asks is it possible not to commit suicide in a meaningless world and without faith in God. The absurd man simply states, I and my plight are ephemeral, but I still choose life.
The absurd man follows the archetype of the Sisyphus myth of which Camus says is “wanting to know,” and in wanting to know realizing that the whole of existence is a continuous repetition, nothing is gained nor loss; “the sin of which the absurd man can feel guilt and innocence.”	This is not existentialism.
Camus scoffs at Kierkegaard who also addresses the plight of the Absurd Man, by which both thinkers understand the human condition today when faced with life in which it appears incomprehensible through pure reason.
Kierkegaard is a proponent of reason but recognizes with proper humility that he is not the center of the universe and when his reason reaches a dead-end, then faith can kick-in as a reasonable means of experiencing the Absurd in a life affirming-approach which recognizes that some of the deeper questions may be answered later, if only one will persist, and that the best hope to overcome the abyss is to give reason more time to fathom the Absurd.
When a person begins to question his own monotonous reality, seeking to find meaning behind his daily motions of life and failing to find any at all, he comes to contemplate that void.
Camus implies that if one were to honestly think about “nothing,” it would be the contemplation of the futility of most questions in life.
Occasionally, however for some at least, we might come to see our daily lives dictated primarily by the forces of habit, thus bringing into question the following, if one feels that the embodiment of freedom is lost to a drone-like existence, all of our actions and reasons for them to a degree become pointless, with a feeling of absurdity linked to meaningless, meaningless to death by ones own hand.
من این کتابو به خاطر افسانه سیزیفش شروع کردم چون بخشی از کلاس معنای زندگی بنیاد فرهنگ زندگی بود.کتاب فوق العاده ایه.از اوناست که میتونی در مورد مسائل مطرح شده ساعت ها فکر کنی و خواندن تک تک جملاتش لذت ببری.شایدم توی بوک کلاب امسال اصلا این کتابو شروع کنم. خیلی جای بحث داره و حس خوبی منتقل می کنه.
Since it is 'the thing' nowadays to put lots of sparkly gifs and pics in a review, who am I to differ? "They bear away from their light, while their strict lord Death bids them to dance... and the rain washes, and cleanses the salt of their tears from their cheeks."Absurd enough. (view spoiler)[to be continued.. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's been 20 years since I've read The Myth of Sisyphus.
Although I've wanted to write a review about it ever since joining Goodreads I haven't, because I don't remember it very well.
And yet, every time I go through my books-read list and I see it sitting there unreviewed, I get the urge to write one and then I remember that I don't know the book well enough, so I drop it.
A few months later I repeat the cycle.
It's sort of like pushing the proverbial boulder up the hill and having it roll back down, and then trying again and again with the same result.
Cả lũ sẽ nhe răng ra cười xong gào lên: “Rock and roll”Thế đấy, "Huyền thoại Sisyphus" là câu chuyện nhảm nhí về anh chàng sáng lăn tảng đá lên đỉnh núi, rồi đứng nhìn nó rơi xuống, rồi ảnh tà tà hạ sơn, về uống cốc bia, tắm rửa, đi ngủ lấy sức sáng mai lại ra lăn cái hòn đá nọ lên đỉnh núi, rồi lại đứng nhìn nó rơi xuống rồi mọi việc lại diễn ra y chang ngày hôm qua, cứ thế ngày này qua tháng nọ.
Cuộc đời vốn dĩ phi lý thế đấy, nhưng lao động/đấu tranh/ra sức có lấp đầy được trái tim trống rỗng của con người phi lí không thì cũng chả biết được?
Làm người là thế, cố mà tìm cái sướng trong cái khổ thôi.
It contained some really interested ideas regarding the philosophy of absurdism, which I would best describe as something of a happy medium between existentialism and nihilism, though I understand Camus himself might consider it nihilism's polar opposite.That said, I can't say I really liked it.
In short, while I really enjoyed the ideas in this book, I simply can't say that I enjoyed this book.
When you find yourself questioning whether you should read the book you brought onto the T or the 'Metro', you know it's maybe not the most enthralling book.
Influenced by works such as Don Juan and the novels of Kafka, these essays begin with a meditation on suicide: the question of living or not living in an absurd universe devoid of order or meaning.Opening: There is but one truly serious philosophical problem, and that is suicide.
wiki sourced- An Absurd Reasoning- The Absurd Man- Absurd Creation- The Myth of Sisyphus- Appendix: Hope And The Absurd In The Work Of Franz Kafka- Summer in Algiers: Opening: The loves we share with a city are often secret loves.
But Algiers (together with certain other privileged places such as cities on the sea) opens to the sky like a mouth or a wound.
Dacă în trecut a greşit (sau aşa consideră), pe viitor nu face altceva decât să proiecteze situaţia cu aferentă corecţie.."A te omorî înseamnă, într-un sens, ca şi în melodramă, a mărturisi.
În acest sens se face o trimitere la Kirilov, "eroul" romanului Demonii, de Dostoievski, un roman pe care Camus îl "diseaca" şi redă în paginile scrierii de faţă măcar un dram din esenţă.
Dacă Dumnezeu nu există, Kirilov trebuie să se omoare , Kirilov trebuie deci să se omoare pentru a fi dumnezeu.
În existenţialism, moralul individual este deasupra celui universal tocmai pentru că acesta din urmă nu există.
This book is a tonic for any agnostic or cynic struggling with the whole meaning-of-life thing.
Camus, in a way that I find totally satisfying, solves that problem without the standard religious cop-out of locating meaning outside this world.
My essential vision of life I more or less cribbed from Camus and Sartre: it's an absurdist project that you can accept and live and love the living of it.
What I appreciate about Camus in this series of essays is that he's more positive about the whole thing than Sartre, who is quite bleak.
إلخ هذا ما يناقشه ألبير كامو في مقالته ، حيث يوضح كامو في بداية المقالة ، أن الإنتحار لهو خيار خاطيء ولا مبرر له ، و لا يوجد سبب يدفع الإنسان للإنتحار ، سواء كان مؤمنا بالله ، أم لا .الإنتحار و أسبابه ، إحدى المواضيع التي طالما شدّت إنتباهي ، و ألبير نجح في تفسيره ، لكن الطريقة كانت معقدة جدا ، كبيرة على دماغي .يضرب مثلا على الكفاح بـشخصية سيزيف سيزيف الأسطورة الإغريقيّة ، التي حكمت عليه الآلهة اليونانية للأبد ، برفع الصخرة حتى قمة الجبل ، لتسقط الصخرة من جديد و يعاود رفعها للأعلى ، و هكذا .
، لكن سيزيف كان أقوى بكثير من هذا ، للخد الذي كان يخاف جدا على نفسه إذا ما سقطت الصخرة بسرعة ...يقول كامو : "ﺍﻟﻤﺜﺎﺑﺮﺓ ﻓﻲ ﺣﺪ ﺫﺍﺗﻬﺎ ، ﻛﺎﻓﻴﺔ ﻟﺘﻤﻸ ﻗﻠﺐ ﺍﻹﻧﺴﺎﻥ .
Dense as hell but worth the effort.
I ventured into The Myth of Sisyphus because The Stranger was one of the books that shook me the most during my high school years, and left me wanting to read more of Camus.
Camus talks about the absurdity of the human condition, where men task on and on as if death wasn't a certainty.
Men seek to solve this absurdity, and Camus asks: is the logical solution suicide?
Sisyphus is able to find joy in his life when he grows consciousness, during his descent into his daily meaningless task, and takes his destiny for his own.
I wanted to read the book because i knew its about Suicide.
Last time i remember reading a book of hardcore philosophy was from Robert Pirsig's Zen and And the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance which is a couple of years ago.
All of a sudden, i didn't expect such mind tiring evaluations and ideologies of various philosophers regarding the fate, meaning of life, stuffs like that, all of which Camus label as absurd.
Living is keeping the absurd alive.
A Book that ought to be read and ponder the stuffs out of it by every serious readers.
the title essay is incredible, other essays come close, but arent as good.I feel That camus philosophy is actually incredibly optimistic because it draws a being who is totally aware of the futility of his own existence but non the less derives joy from it.Some days I relate heavily to camus, other days i prefer Schopenhauer's total pessimism.when it comes to their brands of 'existentialism' i have to say i prefer camus to sartre. sartre attaches too much power to human will, camus understands how helpless and powerless we truly are to the tyranny of not knowing.
“At any streetcorner the feeling of absurdity can strike any man in the face.”  So, what does The Myth of Sisyphus have to say about absurdity and a universe devoid of any clear, evident meaning? Quite a bit!First, Camus rigorously defines the Absurd:  “I said that the world is absurd, but I was too hasty. The world in itself is not reasonable, that is all that can be said. But what is absurd is the confrontation of this irrational and the wild longing for clarity whose call echoes in the human
So, what does The Myth of Sisyphus have to say about absurdity and a universe devoid of any clear, evident meaning?
The absurd is born of this confrontation between the human need and the unreasonable silence of the world.”Below is an explicit definition of what Camus means when he refers to an unreasonable, irrational world:
;) After discussing the inauthentic means of handling absurdity (all of which basically involve flight), he proceeds to unveil his theory as to the best way to live: in conscious, lucid revolt.
“Like great works, deep feelings always mean more than they are conscious of saying.” “If the world were clear, art would not exist.”
I would have to say that my expectations of Camus were shattered to pieces by reading this essay.
That is, his essay lacks originality, ideology, and backbone.For my part, I find it quite off-putting that Camus had nothing to present, and in order to talk about absurdism, he clings to various philospohers and tries to come up with something.
Perhaps the only sentence that I liked from this essay was the one that Camus says some people commit philosophical suicides by turning to religion or god, the rest was just an incoherent presentation of other philosopher's opinions.
أما القسم الثالث فخصصه لشرح عبثية الأعمال الأدبية والفلسفية التي اختار منها شخصية كيريلوف في رواية «الشياطين» للروائي الروسي فيودور دوستويفسكي متحدثا عن فكرة«الانتحار المنطقي »، لافتا التقارب بين هذه الشخصية وما كان دوستويفسكي قد عبر عنه في «يوميات كاتب» وإطلاقه تسمية «الانتحار المنطقي» في عدد ديسمبر- كانون الأول من العام 1876.
ألبير كامو ركز على حالة سيزيف المعاقب في الأبدية لأنه حسب الأسطورة لم يطع الآلهة، عبر نقل حجر ضخم من القعر نحو القمة وما إن يصل الحجر نحو القمة حتى ينحدر نحو القعر.
Tôn giáo gán cho cuộc sống một ý nghĩa thông qua các khái niệm mơ hồ và không thể kiểm chứng được như thiên đàng, địa ngục, kiếp sau, thế giới bên kia...trong khi khoa học mới chỉ dừng lại ở việc giải thích và mô tả hiện tượng mà chưa thể trả lời những câu hỏi về bản chất và ý nghĩa của sự tồn tại.
I think that The Myth of Sisyphus (and for that matter the other essays in this collection, which Camus wrote prior to Sisyphus, but in which he plants the seeds for the philosophy of the Absurd that would really germinate later on, as his art/thought matured) can add depth and insight to one's understanding of The Stranger, but I think each work also stands well enough on its own, The Stranger as a work of Absurdist fiction and Sisyphus as a work of philosophy in which Camus firms up ideas that he had been toying with for some time.
The meaninglessness of life. Sigh. I think this is the true path to the wakening of the adult from the child. This bubble bursting awareness that there really may be nothing else out there and that time marches us on toward our inevitable death. Something about the myth at the end though was fairly reassuring. I actually found some strange comfort in this.
All the rest — whether or not the world has three dimensions, whether the mind has nine or twelve categories — comes afterwards.”These are the sentences that Camus started his famous book “the Myth of Sisyphus” in 1942.
Other issues discussed in the book were suicides, mortality and faith.
To Camus only life and the ability to be part of the world is important.
Nothing is more frightening than work without any result, always start over and do not have any specific purpose but Sisyphus was forced to accept and overcome the absurd.
The myth of Sisyphus, is a deeply human book.
