https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149543.Jane_of_Lantern_Hill
This is a charming, old-fashioned tale by the author of Anne of Green Gables, and is very much in the same vein.
Jane is appalled at the idea of spending an entire summer with this unfamiliar father who is so hated by her grandmother and has made her mother sad, but she has no choice.
It's not quite up to the level of the first few Green Gables books, but it was still a very heartwarming read.
Sure, Jane isn't as inspiring as Anne, but I think she's inspiring too, just in a different, less dramatic way.Jane reminds me of the joys of the 'little things' in life-living in a house one loves, cooking,feeling useful and needed, enjoying the domestic tasks and scenes, finding something in nearly everyone to like etc (okay, maybe those are 'big' things...)All of LMM's books do that for me, actually, but this one does it in a more practical, material way, if that makes sense.
The Anne and Emily books make me see the magic and romance in everyday life, while Jane helps me celebrate everyday things themselves, including all the various little tasks I do.
SO delightful. Can I just drop everything and live on PEI now, please? I mean, I'll take my family. And as long as I'm making outrageous requests of the universe, I'm going to throw in a little time travel as well - PEI about a century ago. Thanks.
M. Montgomery's grandfather was actually much more of a tyrant than her grandmother, but both, indeed, seemingly in no way were able to even remotely give to Maud, to grant to the granddaughter they were raising the love, attention and support desired and needed).Now I do love how L.M. Montgomery with Jane of Lantern Hill describes the dichotomy of stagnant and shabbily genteel downtown Toronto (Gay Street especially) versus rural and much more lively and laid back Prince Edward Island.
Her library of writing, her legacy, is still being enjoyed by readers today, and I dare say 500 years from now people will still be reading about Anne Shirley of Prince Edward Island, Canada.
But tthis book is about another character, Jane Victoria Stuart, and her comfortable but unhappy life in Toronto, living with her mother and her domineering grandmother.
Jane doesn't know her father exists, but when he suddenly writes and insists that Jane be sent to spend the summer with him in Prince Edward Island, her life changes dramatically, and the stage is set for the magical story of Jane of Lantern Hill.
Her grandmother rules the house with a strict hand and is keeping Jane and her mother from experiencing any joy in daily life.
Very naturally they fall into this endearing father daughter relationship and the island living suits Jane very much.
As you read this book through Janes’ eyes, you can’t help but picture yourself looking up to this gentle, wise father that loves her for who she is.
Her father opens up about his relationship with her mother and you can’t help but feel such a tender spot for him and Jane.L.M. Montgomery is the same (Canadian) author of the Anne of Green Gables series and her writing does not disappoint.
I liked Jane more than Emily (Anne came later for me, around 15 or so), I loved the self-contained novel that this is, I loved the stark contrast between her Toronto world and her life on Prince Edward Island - I called it a dichotomy at first, but Jane's nature isn't split; rather, arriving on PEI and meeting her dad, finding Lantern Hill and living the way she'd always yearned to live, is a true home-coming for Jane.
Eleven-year-old Jane Victoria Stuart lives with her mother and grandmother in a grey, dreary part of Toronto, unloved for the most part (her grandmother in particular hates her for being her father’s daughter), except by her mother (who pretty though she is cannot really stand up for herself or her daughter), unwanted, and extremely unhappy—her only solace being her one friend Jody and the moon.
But PEI plays the part of the secret garden for her working magic, as she finds it in its summer glory—flowers blooming, the perfect house, two cats and a dog, new friends (lots of them), a father who loves her and who she loves, as well as a place where she is actually wanted—she finally has a home.
One of the things I like best about L.M. Montgomery, I've decided on re-reading this for the millionth time, is the awesome houses she gives her characters.
I especially liked the description of its "dining room with a door that opened into a sun-room and the most delightful breakfast nook in pale yellow, with built-in china closets." Actually I noticed quite a few similarities this time between this one and 'The Blue Castle' - the transformation both Jane and Valancy experienced after leaving the poisonous and loveless environments at home and going somewhere where they could be themselves.
I can't believe I'd never read this before! Montgomery is so good at writing terrible, repressive surroundings, and Jane's magical summer is such a relief - and so is her coming back to Toronto different, in a way that's entirely beyond her grandmother's power to change. The ending might be ridiculous, but it's also earned (if only by Jane) and just so sweet.
Jane has never felt like she belongs; she lives with her mother, named Robin, Aunt Gertrude and Jane’s grandmother, Mrs Kennedy.
Jane is forced to go, prepared to hate a person who she believes has made her mother unhappy and instead she meets somebody who she feels like she’s always known, and she begins to understand where she has inherited many of her character traits from.
The start of Jane’s journey to a happier life begins with her first summer visit to Lantern Hill on P.E. Island...This was a wonderful story from the author of Anne of Green Gables.
This book was so lovely! Jane was a very engaging heroine and I loved her adventures. In true Montgomery fashion, there were vivid descriptions of nature, particularly of Prince Edward Island, and a very satisfactory happy ending! I strongly recommend this novel :)**This is the French version of "Jane of Lantern Hill" by Lucy Maud Montgomery.
Jane lives with her mother, aunt and grandmother in a world of rules and unhappiness.
Her mother is weak and unable to stand up to Jane's grandmother and Jane stoically suffers daily from her grandmother's verbal bullying.
This sounds very heavy but L M Montgomery writes in such a lovely, light and caring way about some serious issues.
Jane escapes this repressed world to visit her father where she is allowed to be herself, taste freedom and live life to the full.
She learns to face her fears and blossoms with the love and attention.
This was a lovely book especially when you feel you need a charming and uplifting read.

Džeina ir brīnišķīga un man patika lasīt viņas pārvērtību no tramīga skuķēna uz uzņēmīgu meiteni. Citējot misis Snovbīmu:"Šī Džeina Stjuarte dabūs gatavu visu, ko ieņems galvā!"
And there begins her journey of maturity and delight in a relationship with a father who sympathises and loves the daughter he has been kept from for years.In a world today where there is so much going on around us, this story carries the reader to a gentler time and place, where the description of the moon or a row of spruce trees against a blue sky gives one appreciation for the beauty in the world and helps the reader to focus on what is really important in life; the relationships that we form and the atmosphere of the home.
Most satisfying.I LOVED this book.
This book reminded me of many of them.I loved watching Jane "grow up" through this story.
How she blossoms and turns into the person she wishes her mother was!
I fell in love with her father as Jane did, and her hopes and dreams for her little family became mine.
I have to say, my favorite part of her "transformation" has to be her learning to love God and His Word.
This book is like a hug made of pages.
Oh, how I wish she had been able to write the sequel that she wanted!
The legend in my family is that I was named (by my sister) after the main character in this book. Having read all the Anne books in her collection, I decided that her memory was faulty because I couldn't find any books about a Jane in the libraries. Thank goodness for the LM Montgomery resurgence starting in the 80's because I finally found this book and, after reading it, was VERY proud to be named for this wonderful character.
If I could only have one favorite book from my childhood...this--this would be it.
LOVE. Not sure how I managed to wait so long to read this one.
This may be one of my new favorite L.M. Montgomery books.
This is the story about a young girl named Jane.
She and her mother live in her Grandmother's house.
Her grandmother is, let's be honest, emotionally abusive.
Later a letter arrives and he expects Jane to spend the summer with him.
Over the course of two summers, Jane is transformed.
She grows up and is able to realise who she is and that allows her to stand up to her grandmother.
Overall this is a great book well worth the time to read it.
Jane of Lantern Hill was the last unread book of L.M. Montgomery's sitting on my shelf, and I intentionally put off reading it for years.
The experience was so bittersweet (no more delightful new character introductions!), but it turned out to be one of my favorite stand-alone Montgomery novels – tied with The Blue Castle.
:) Jane easily won me over and had me rooting for her from the beginning.
I loved seeing her character develop and blossom with just a little bit of freedom and love.
Her practical and supremely capable nature was a little different from other Montgomery heroines, but not a bit less charming.
I was sick and in the need of a comfort read. This fit the bill perfectly, being one of my favourite LMM books, only surpassed by "Anne of the Island" and "The Blue Castle".I love reading how Jane grows in spirit once she makes it to Prince Edward Island, and how she makes house with her father and finally comes into her own as she learns what it's like not to be down-trod and underfoot all the time. I wish I didn't believe that relatives like Grandmother Kennedy really existed out there.
Absolutely adored this book the first time I read it! Not sure why, but at the time I felt it was probably my favorite of Montgomery's stand-alone novels, next to "Blue Castle." When I re-read it recently, I was somewhat less impressed and actually didn't finish the reread (though more due to a lot of crazy stuff going on with Life at present) but I still thought it had some lovely passages and sentiment and Jane is an endearing heroine.
Even better the second time around!
Canadian author L.M. Montgomery’s Jane of Lantern Hill is another new addition to the expanding range of children’s books upon the Virago Modern Classics list.
The novel was first published in 1937, and is set in both Toronto and on Prince Edward Island, where the author herself lived.
Montgomery is best known for her series featuring Anne Shirley, which begins with the classic novel Anne of Green Gables.In Jane of Lantern Hill, one of Montgomery’s standalone novels, Jane Stuart and her mother have lived in a ‘gloomy old mansion’ in Toronto for as long as she can remember: ‘Gay Street, so Jane always thought, did not live up to its name.
Jane lives in Toronto with her pretty socialite mother and her hostile, bullying grandmother.
And to counter them, there's cheerful, joking Dad, sweet and loving Mother, and a host of minor characters like Aunt Elmira (no relation to Jane) who's always dying, the elderly Titus sisters who spend much of their time gently quarreling, Uncle Tombstone the handyman, Jody the orphan next door...Add to all that the cosy, small-town-gossip-y feel that is another of the things I love about LMM's work, and a happy ending, and what more could a reader want?
It's impossible for me not to love L. M. Montgomery's books and her characters. Jane is now definitely one of my favorite characters in line with Anne and Emily. Such a wonderful book, it was a pleasure to read. I'm kind of sad it isn't a series because I want to find out what happens to Jane when she grows up,
Un romanzo di formazione dunque, ricco di belle descrizioni, come Montgomery ci ha ormai abituate, di situazioni e dinamiche familiari molto moderne, di personaggi secondari pittoreschi e divertenti che vivacizzeranno il suo soggiorno estivo a Lantern Hill in compagnia di una padre semplicemente meraviglioso, colto, affascinante che la inizierà a tante nuove scoperte ma che, come pensa saggiamente Jane, non mostra altrettanto intuito nel carpire la vera psicologia delle donne.
Un’estate che la vedrà rifiorire, maturare, acquisire maggior sicurezza in se stessa e giocare un ruolo determinate nella vita delle due persone che ama di più al mondo…Lucy Maud Montgomery iniziò la scrittura del seguito del romanzo di Jane nel 1939 ma, con nostro sommo rammarico, non la continuò mai.
I think I remember reading some of the first Anne book years ago, but I'm not sure if I read all of it.
It was sweet and funny, and well written - Jane of Lantern Hill is all of those things too.Montgomery is surprisingly modern in what she writes.
Montgomery would do very well with young adult audiences if she were writing today, I think.She's also witty.
She writes interesting men, and I like her spunky heroines in search of their place in the world.
