https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3047848-heartless
Bastante entretenido en cuanto a giros, muy interesantes y siempre respecto a las protagonistas.
La trama de Hanna ha sido sin duda la mejor del libro, con escenas más que curiosas y haciendo que estuviera siempre alerta.
Respecto al resto, la historia de Spencer ha estado también muy bien, aunque ha mejorado tirando hacia el final.
Sin embargo, hay tramas muy, muy interesantes que estoy deseando que se resuelvan en Wanted.
Is Iris going to appear in the next book?
He definetly wasn't the one IMing Spencer since apparently it was the creepy outsider arrested for Ali AND Jenna's murders.
Aria still has his class ring and I don't think Melissa is in contact with him.This isn't looking good, Ian, we need you now more than ever.
Apparently the pedophile got her, and disposed of her body like Ali. I guess we'll never know about Jason and Ali's sibling problems and the whole mystery of Jenna herself.
6)I don't know where to start on this one.Ali's mom and Spencer's dad (Yes her parents are her biological parent's but Olivia delivered her) were an item!
****3.5/5****This was a very quick and enjoyable (like always) read. I felt like I got a lot more out of this book than the last couple. It’s still a little childish for me but I can’t judge too harshly on that because that’s just my age, I think. Like always, the girls different story lines are intriguing and keep you excited for the following books!
Heartless by Sara ShepardBad/boring review because I'm not home so I'm writing it on my phone:This instalment was very enjoyable, as usual, but I don't think I enjoyed it quiet as much as the last 2 because of exams...at least they're over now, hahaI would've liked a bit more out of this one, but oh well, there's still about 9 books left in the series... Oh my, hahaha
It turns out Emily’s new Amish friend Lucy had a sister Leah who went missing, just like Alison, which is obviously very interesting and hopefully means that there’s a local serial killer preying on teenage girls who will soon eliminate the rest of the cast.
Emily finally finds out that Officer Wilden and Leah the Missing Amish Girl were involved with each other, meaning that most likely he killed her and therefore the body that everyone thought was Alison was Leah all along, coincidentally buried in Alison’s garden.
This series really pulls you in. It's stuffed from cover to cover in each book with mystery after mystery. New theories are always arising and complications presenting themselves. Will Ali's murderer ever be caught? Is Ali even dead? Even after reading this installment, those questions still linger. One thing certain about this series is that no one will really know what happened until the series is finished.
Heartless is, without a doubt, the best installment so far.You could tell from the very beginning that the end was going to be worthy of shitting bricks, and upon arriving at that point, I realized it's very true.In Heartless, the girls are kind of split up.
Aria looks into mediums, trying to come into contact with Ali's ghost, and she makes a shocking discovery.While Heartless may be the best PLL installment to date, it's also the shortest, and I can't tell yet if that's a good thing or a bad thing.
I feel like if they communicated more with each other, they would actually figure more out but alas, they still aren't really friends.
Sending Emily to an Amish community where she discovers that Wilden is hiding more than they think.2.
Sending Hanna to a mental institute for her eating disorder where she meets a girl who seems to have known Ali in the past.3.
While the girls still had their annoyances here (omg Emily and her undying love for everything that is Ali), I really felt like at least Spencer and Aria started to grow a little.
Foi um livro normal. O fim é que eu não estava á espera.
This series has kind of plateaued with this new A :( there is always the same formula of sort of boring plot with lots of wrong leads and some scandals, and them a cliffhanger/chocking ending. There is a grand 0 of character development to keep me invested and caring about these girls, the romances last about 5 seconds and they still aren't friends. Overall disappointed but still addicted 🤷♀
This series has kind of plateaued with this new A :( there is always the same formula of sort of boring plot with lots of wrong leads and some scandals, and them a cliffhanger/chocking ending. There is a grand 0 of character development to keep me invested and caring about these girls, the romances last about 5 seconds and they still aren't friends. Overall disappointed but still addicted 🤷‍♀️
No sé cómo lo hará la autora pero consigue engancharme a leer el siguiente libro nada más terminar el último que llevo leído. Es como si ver la serie no sirviera de nada, porque los libros te mantienen con otra intriga, con otra trama que es casi completamente distinta.
Heartless (Pretty Little Liars #7), Sara Shepard
(Audiobook format) This book was amazing! It started strong and started strong until the very end. Heartless totally made up for Killer being a little slow. This book kept me at the edge of my seat. I was totally hooked from the first chapter until the last. I just had to know what was going to happen. I thought the ending for the last book was great, but this one was way better. This was my favorite book of the entire series so far. Can't wait to see what the next book brings.

First of all, can I just say that this book sh0uld be called: The Hastings Family Secrets and How To Hide Them instead of Heartless? Because everything, pretty much everything, in this book was about how sneaky Spencers' parents are and especially her father. That asshole!! If I was Spencers and Melissas mother, I'd cut his balls off for what he did... Anyway, this entry to the series is full of action and yet it is another entry where Aria just kinda hangs out while stuff happens and does pretty much nothing.
5 star PPL book but a 4 star book in general.THAT ENDING...
Please, can she just end this series already? I mean of course I read it so I'm obviously addicted, but this one really said NOTHING! I'm sticking to my evil twin theory though.
La trama si complica - continuando a discostarsi da quella della serie tv - e la saga delle liars crea sempre più assuefazione.
They don't let people hold them back as much, and circumstances don't trap the girls in situations that render them completely useless in solving ANYthing, which seemed like a trick that the author used in the other novels to feed the plot.
What's evident is that the author is unsure of how to clear up what's happened in past books and unclear about how to untie the giant mess of a knot that's been created.ALL that said: I can't get enough of these characters.
I get that it's been years since the first few books came out, but do away with the technological trend references if they don't make any chronological sense!), I really love these girls.
The series has been progressively improving with each volume.
With that being said, so far this instalment has been my absolute favourite!
The pacing was very good with elements of suspense sprinkled in at exactly the right moments, and I hate to admit it, but these suspenseful surprises were things that I wasn't expecting at all!
The "Previously on PLL" chapters and rants were finally taken out altogether with just the briefest snippets of the main aspects of what's occurred so far, and they were limited to details that would be explored in the current volume.
Kuten aina, vauhdissa ovat neljä teinityttöä, joita piinaa joku.
Alkuperäinen A paljastui jo parisen kirjaa sitten ja sen jälkeen kuvioissa on ollut uusi A.
Neljä tähteä jopa kaksi kertaa, vaikka keskimääräisesti sanoisin sarjan tason olevan siellä kahden tähden pinnassa.
Neljä ekaahan oli jopa hyviä.
Ainakin tällä kertaa, kun en tiedä jatkanko enää sarjaa.
Tässä kirjassa se vaan korostui.
Jotenkin huvittavaa, miten kaikkia piinaa sama tyyppi, mutta eivät ole vieläkään valmiit pitämään yhtä ja kertomaan toisilleen asioista.
Toivoin, että tässä kirjassa olisi selvinnyt jotain, mutta joo.
Loppuratkasu oli ensimmäistä kertaa niin pliisu ja näin sen läpi.
Sitähän sitten pyöritellään seuraavassa kirjassa 85% ajasta.
This is really the point where the series has to keep coming up with random drama to continue the series.
They are actually kind of juicy, instead of random.The conclusion of this book is a disappointment again.
Just like the last book, the climax comes much later in the book, and it just isn't as interesting as in the earlier books.
I think at least two of the girls' investigations won't have a major impact on the story in the end and were mostly just a waste of time, but it was a big improvement from them just being scared and A completely leading the way.
In the last book Spencer had met with the woman who she thought was her adoptive mom only to have her take all of her savings.
But then, at the beginning of this book, Spencer's parents tell her that the woman who took her money was her mom, sort of.
And Spencer might have ended her parents marriage at the end of the book, all because of A.Hanna is sent away to a mental hospital.
Hanna thinks that she knows who killed Ali.Emily is sent away to live with an Amish family for a few days.
This book was a little slow and not a lot happened during it.
It seems very unrealistic that people would randomly remember little details from the day Ali disappeared.
The girls seemed to be constantly remembering something despite it happening 4 years ago which seems really unbelievable.
I have no idea how the author intends to wrap the series up as it seems to be getting even more far fetched.
I find the story interesting enough and I do plan on finishing the series as I want to see how everything gets wrapped up.
so different.
I'm so confused
Still, as I mentioned it's not a bad book, but a bit underwhelming.I have to admit I'm really disappointed that the random construction worker is supposedly Ali's killer.
I'll be interested to see if the author continues with Mr Ford as the killer, because it's completely different to any of the accusations she's made in previous books.
I was excited when I found out Wilden had been Amish and was thought to have killed an Amish girl, but I feel like the author was stretching it a bit.
Aunque sea uno de los libros que más tardé en leer de la saga, esta historia me sigue fascinando.Increíble como se va enredando todo y van surgiendo nuevas tramas que siempre te desvían de la verdad.
U think these girls would learn by now not to trust anything A says. They just gotta jump right into A's trap
so I feel like a ton of shit happened in this book. One thing that really bugs me is how obsessed with Ali Emily is - she thinks Ali is like perfect when Ali really is a horrible person. Like why are you so obsessed with someone like that? I feel bad for the girls in this one the whole aspect of getting arrested. I feel really bad for Spencer too - confronting her dad about the affair and ruining their marriage since her mom didn't know about it. Overall a lot happened in this book.
