https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22466714-the-dead-mountaineer-s-inn
Ponovno u rukama nakon ... toliko godina i utisak je isti!Šašavo, dinamično, uvrnuto, vrcavo.Uživancija!
Dobra knjiga!
Najvise sto mi se svidja kod nje je atmosfera - Hoetl u planini, kamin, piju se vino i viski i rakija, puse se cigare, skija se, jede se u drustvu, igra se bilijar i kocka se :) A kada zelis da se osamis samo odlutas u belinu.
Na sve to se nadovezuje "ubistvo" i neobjasnjive situacije koje vecinu gostiju teraju da poveruju u vanzemaljece.
Ovaj krimi naucno fantsticni roman je jako dobra razonoda za svakoga dok napolju pada sneg, vi ste u svojoj sobi i pijete domace vino a na gramofonu pici neki dobar doom :) P.
I applaud Neversink and Melville House for translating and publishing this little book and think it's a must for Strugatsky fans, but for novices to these writers, I recommend starting with 'Hard to Be a God' or 'Roadside Picnic" (in their new translations) first.
(And for those looking for a genuinely farcical and cynically dark little novella sending up the "trapped in X location while inexplicable crimes occur" genre, I highly recommend Bioy Casares and Ocampo's Where There's Love, There's Hate, also published by Melville House as part of its Neversink line.)
If Agatha Christie wrote for The Twilight Zone , you'd have this.
In some ways the story takes second place, as the characters and their interactions in the Hotel are wonderful, and splendidly translated to give us that original humour.
The story is almost archetypal: Glebsky, an inspector by trade, begins his stay at an isolated inn in the mountains.
Also staying there are an odd assortment of characters, including a researcher, a hypnotist, a very intelligent dog, and haunting the place, the ghost of the mountaineer for whom the inn is named, and of course, a body is found...
The story started typically as a closed-room mystery with not much happening until second half of the book (view spoiler)[The story was getting interesting after an avalanche happened.
The hilarious parts made the story bearable to read until the second half.
Even after the things getting more serious, the funny things were not completely gone.At first I thought Strugatsky Brothers really wrote a pure mystery, but alas...
it is Strugatsky Brothers we are talking here - It is a warning for readers who want a pure mystery; A double warning for readers who intend to guess whodunnit seriously.
Nu că asta m-ar fi deranjat, din contră: frații Strugațki au recreat aici un murder mystery clasic, fix genul care-mi plăcea atât de mult în adolescență, cu deosebirea că personaje lor sunt tare ciudate, iar întâmplările te duc în mai multe direcții: ba ai parte de un umor absurd, ba te trezești în postura de detectiv, încercând să-ți dai seama cine-i criminalul, ba ai impresia că totul se va rezolva în cheie fantastică.La sfârșitul iernii, inspectorul de poliție Glebski sosește la hotelul „La crucea alpinistului” pentru a-și petrece două săptămâni de concediu, departe de constrângerile familiale și sociale.
Introduction, by Jeff Vandermeer--The Dead Mountaineer's Inn (One More Last Rite for the Detective Genre)Acknowledgments
I liked this strange book. I thought it was a, get stuck in the beautiful chalet in the woods murder mystery, but...it definitely takes a right turn and then it’s a bit of a different type of mystery. Good characters made for an interesting but offbeat listen. Not for the close minded.
In 1970, two brothers who are Soviet sci-fi writers attempt to write an Agatha Christie whodunit novel set in a remote ski resort. Much hilarity ensues. Not perfect, but quite entertaining. Nice intro by Jeff VanderMeer, too.'Mountaineer' Is A Must-Read Of Soviet Sci-Fihttp://www.npr.org/2015/03/19/3926346...Spoiler Alert: Boris Dralyuk on The Dead Mountaineer’s Innhttp://lareviewofbooks.org/review/wel...
Fun sci-fi/murder mystery mash-up in a snowed-in Russian ski chalet; a zany cast of misfits.
3.5 starsThis was a fun little book, although it took awhile to get to the actual murder and mystery. Still, I enjoyed the bits of humor in the interactions between the inspector and the rest of the travelers staying at the inn. Some of it was subdued, and some of it was absurd. As for the resolution to the murder? Well, that's when things took an unexpected and wacky turn.I especially enjoyed the audiobook narration by Keith Szarabajka.
Teetered back and forth between 3 and 4 stars. A bit like a Russian version of the American book series, Clue. A mystery with unusual characters with quirky foibles and a small chunk of sci-fi and the paranormal tossed in as well. I certainly found myself smiling and chuckling through most of the book. Definitely a fun read. I’d pass it on to a friend.
Encounter with the unknown in a snowed in lodge via campy detective novel tropes. Fun, but pretty frivolous compared to its brilliant counterpart Roadside Picnic. The Estonian film is worth a look, too.
While the narration of this book is fine, I found my attention constantly wandering. I kept confusing the characters who were staying at the inn. I did not found the character interactions particularly funny, and found much of the plot on the tedious side, until the murder. Phew! The book became a little more interesting then, however, never enough for me to really be engaged by the story.
Стругацки не се чете на 16 години (както в моя случай).Не знам какво ми стана и я препрочитам в момента, а ченето ми този път буквално е увиснало.Вече вярвам в извънземни, Аркадий и Борис не са от тази планета.А това дори не се води за една от най-добрите им книги...
A police investigator arrives at a (possibly haunted) winter cabin, various mysteries occur, to say much else would spoil things.
You can probably assume by it being written by the two greatest Russian sci-fi writers (one of the best period) that there is more here than the usual locked door mystery, and that part of it I really liked, but at it happens I fucking hate locked door mysteries, and so the part of it that is an example or perhaps a parody of the that style of book really bored the shit out of me, and so I probably didn't love this as might as much as I might have.
On the third hand (?) there is a sense of moral seriousness, evident likewise in last week's Roadside Picnic, which put it firmly in the keep column.
At the same time one of the guests is found dead in his locked room, the window left open with no footprints on the window and his head twisted at a 180 degree angle.This begins a challenging investigation as Glebsky quizzes the owner and guests getting ever-changing answers.
The final solution makes the book full-fledged science fiction when the secret of an immense trunk is revealed.It's a fun take on Agatha Christie-type mysteries, with archetypal characters given strange habits and personalities.
The book was turned into a Russian film in 1979 and was first published in the US in 1982 and is sometimes listed as The Dead Mountaineer's Hotel or Inspector Glebsky's Puzzle.
Olen ""Hukkunud Alpinisti" hotelli" filmi korduvalt vaadanud, kuna mulle väga meeldib selle filmi muusika. Raamatut ma aga seni lugenud ei olnud. Nagu ikka, on raamat ja film üsna erinevad. Lugemisel tulid filmitegelased kogu aeg silme ette, kuigi raamatus kirjeldati neid teistsugustena, nt hotelli omanik on raamatus turske mees, kuid filmis mängis teda Jüri Järvet. Ka lugu ise oli üsna erinev, kuigi raamatu põhiidee oli siiski filmis alles.Raamat sobib kindlasti ulmekirjandusega tutvumiseks ja ka neile, kes ulmekirjandust ei armasta, sest lugu ise on ju üsna realistlik, kuigi osa tegelasi olid tulnukad teiselt planeedilt.
3.5 stars. I haven't read many murder mysteries to compare this one to, but I managed to keep up. It's a fun and funny book, with some memorable odd-ball characters. The book can't decide if it's a mystery, a ghost story or a comedy yet it sets in the science fiction section of the book store. Don't worry about that too much, it's a quick ride and best taken as it comes.
A strange, sometimes terrifying but always fun sort of mystery/thriller that races forward threatening to fall apart in a spectacular crash.
But in the capable hands of the Strugatsky brothers the impossible narrative manages to hold together and even reach a satisfying ending that ties everything up while still leaving things open enough for us to puzzle over afterward.
Still, as soon as I finished the novel, I turned back to the first page, wanting to unearth this mystery all over again.
Wanted to like this book so badly. Perhaps I expected fulfillment of what seemed to be a Wes Andersen movie (Grand Budapest Hotel, for example.) The quirky surprise left turn near the end was a great disappointment. I should have known better knowing the authors' backgrounds. The translation from Russian only annoyed me once. "If it's not a secret" should not have been translated literally. The expression carries so much more meaning. Available March 2015 in English from Melville House Publishing.
First 75% was amazing, but I wasn't sold on the ending.
I found his struggle to accept aliens to be very realistic.
Ultimately - although the decision is painted in a bad light - I sypathized with his struggle over what to do and how to deal with something he had never in a million years dreamed would be his responsibility.I got my copy of The Dead Mountaineer's Inn during International Book Week because it looked interesting.
But I did continue listening and I did end up liking the book.
Just because I couldn't predict what happened doesn't make it good, they could have ended the book in a surprise line dancing competition and I wouldn't have guessed it, it still would have been a bad ending.
I think I am making the ending out to be a lot more terrible than it actually is, I think that the epilogue dose tie the whole story together, but if I didn't read the epilogue I would have thrown it out the window of the airplane I was in when I read this.

The other reviewers have said almost everything--this is a pretty fun book with a rather disappointing ending.
But I just want to note one thing: I read this in the original Russian, and there are some things I know can't possibly come through in translation.
That's actually quite a feat, because Russian is a very gendered language, and NO gendered words are used in regards to this character until the point when their gender is "revealed" (with my modern sensibilities, I remain sure that they are nonbinary).
(Also, how nice that their guardian is supportive!)Anyway, I recommend this book.
I don't think this was as good as his Roadside Picnic which was fantasy, his usual genre, but it was still quite good.
It's about a Russian police inspector who tries to vacation at a ski resort, but winds up entangled in a mysterious murder, with possible otherworldly elements.
The inspector seemed to me obsessively strict in adherence to police procedures, and unwilling to believe in any otherworldly explanation for the strange events and guests' behavior.
I kept hoping he would take a small risk and try out the device in the suitcase, or let the desperate guests do it, but he adamantly refused until it was too late.

Audible version: This was one of those books I bought only because it was a Daily Deal and the reviews made it look worth taking the chance. I'm so glad I did! What a fun surprise! The book had me laughing out loud and carrying my phone with me everywhere I went so I didn't miss a word. I love watching Poirot, so listening to this spoof was super fun. The narrator made it extra special!
