https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23382209-three-daughters
This book was really upsetting because I really really enjoyed the writing and the characters were all interesting as was the plot and the historical context of the book, but the author really made the plot much more convoluted than necessary and towards the end it felt like the book was just being dragged out.
Also the end was pretty terrible with all the sex and plot twists it felt like one of those TV series which goes on too long and by the twelfth season they run out of things plot lines.
It's the type of book that follows a family of women through three generations and watches as the woman learn to grow into their roles as independent women in a war torn and ever changing middle eastern culture that's close knit.
The women are all harboring secrets that build throughout the book and enrich the plot.
The book has everything from social commentary about women being in control of their own lives, provoking thoughts about religion, to women coming to terms with being mothers and "sexual" beings.
This book is super duper good!
All the reviews and ratings were high and positive so I read the book.
(over 700 pages) Books should have a rating.
My belief was that the sex was added to help sell the story which degraded the women in the story and totally distracted the reader from enjoying what little good there was in the book.
I will not be reading any more from this author and I definitely will not recommend it.From now on I will only read books that have been recommended to me by people I know I am not into wasting my time reading slutty things.
The main characters are Christian women, but this book isn't about being a Proverbs 31 woman.
There were a few scenes that troubled me deeply, but I felt that every sex scene was important to the development of the story and the characters.
Major world events serve as backgrounds to the everyday lives of Miriam, Nadia, and Nijmeh in their small town.For all that the location was billed as "exotic," these women and their lives are highly relatable and compelling.I loved the characters.
I wanted to protect those characteristics of her.If Miriam's and Nadia's stories read like neat (if tragic) fairy tales, Nijmeh's story seemed like it could happen to anybody.
Do not be fooled by the beginning of the book as, though it opens like a primer to Middle East history, it picks up right away and you are in the story before you know it.Each of the women can be seen as rebels of their own times, saddled with something that set them apart - Miriam with her blue eyes, the result of a Russian father, Nadia with her mixed features and her height, the result of a German father and Nijmeh with her extraordinary beauty, and her shocking parentage.
All three lead more than ordinary lives and Ms. Baehr does a wonderful job of making them seem extraordinary and yet, very ordinary.The writing was surprisingly good (specially for a book that I got free) and the story had me engrossed.
What a waste of long weekend! I read Three Daughters on Kindle this past weekend, and even though the synopsis was promising and even the first half of the book was good also, but it went downhill really fast. I though I would learn a lot about Palestine, Syria and new State of Israel and their people's values, customs and culture, but 700 plus pages was basically wasted on sex, cheating and double crossing relatives. UGH....
I particularly enjoyed the first part of the book, reading about Miriam and about the developments in Palestina through the Otoman empire and WWI.
I was hoping the rest would be like that but, disappointingly the author avoids talking about the changes in Palestina after WWII and how that affected to the culture and lives of the main characters.
The end of the book is disappointing, after all you've suffer with the characters and their strive to keep their culture and traditions and the main character migrates to America leaving everything behind, it doesn't make much sense.
A family saga spanning three generations of Palestinian Christian women over the first half of the 20th century, that turbulent and often brutal time of momentous change and political events with which we are still trying to come to terms.
Admittedly the historical background is completely secondary to the loves and lives of the women, but even so there is a remarkable lack of attention paid to what is happening all around them.
I doubt very much that these Arab women would have been quite so obsessed with sex, even to the extent of one of them going off on an unchaperoned overnight trip with a man however “filled with love fluids” she might have been.
Ugh, you know what, I'm out. It's just too much....book.
They each in turn face opposition from within when they try to do something different as the clan influence is great and the good name of the clan is more important than the ambitions of the individual.How these three women live their lives very bravely is the story told by this author.
I loved this beautiful story and hated to see it end.
We progress as a society in material ways without essentially changing the mother/daughter bond - and it can be a troubled relationship that creates that bond.The cultural changes that occurred for the three generations of women were fascinating to read.
I could also see the expanded world and opportunity the migration to the United States presented for the third generation.The romance and relationships were tastefully articulated although other readers have disagreed.
It made the women real and did not take away from the story.
I am motivated to read another book by this author.
Updated thoughts on August 2nd.... see below I loved this book. An interesting take on a romance novel with historical cultures taking on the premise for this story. It kept my interest, loved the good and bad characters, with all the secrets they held. An easy summertime read. .....The detailed sex scenes in the later part of the book were unnecessary to show the love of the characters and perhaps the book should have ended a few pages earlier.
Even so, Miriam falls in love with another man and begins a relationship that could put her in real danger.
She resists the arranged marriage her parents desire for her, and would rather be out riding horses than living out the traditional role a woman plays in her tribe.
Nadia falls in love with an older man, but is tricked into a marriage with a person from her tribe and culture.
Her father wants her to learn to love the land and traditions of her family.
Once Nijmeh is in America,we begin to see the real Nijmeh emerge.The story of each of the daughters is different than the story that their families know.
(If anything, maybe it served as a historic and cultural difference for how these women lived, at that time, compared to their Muslim and Jewish neighbors, but that is just my personal speculation.) After reading some of the negative reviews, I'm sure the majority of the reviewers picked this book thinking they were going to be reading about religious women, and this book is not about religion at all.
The ending was okay...I am not sure I buy into who the author chose to leave off with as the potential future for the character in question, and thought it made much more sense to have her reach out to another potential connection, or have had more interaction with this random guy.
The story encompassed almost a century, and focused on the lives of three women: Miriam, her daughter Nadia, and Nadia’s daughter Nijmeh (Star).
Much as it related their struggles as women in the Middle Eastern culture, it also highlighted their strength and power as women even in a restrictive society.
Miriam and Nadia, related by blood, were the rebellious ones.
I enjoy discovering new things about the history of people of other nations, not so much about the political climate, but more about how they lived and loved.
I have a love/hate relationship with historical fiction.
I don't mind the embellishment of a fictional story to introduce you to a culture and time, but I HATE SAPPY.
I enjoyed the story and maybe I could get past the sappy parts, but I can't do it for 800 pages.
Sometimes I think authors believe that women won't read history unless there is bodice ripping in it or women not able to find their identity without a man.
Ugh. Give me Erik Larsen any day.
I guess I prefer my history "straight up." I've switched to reading "The Good Earth" and love it so far.
Like night and day.
This was a long book, but definitely worth the read. Some parts were a bit slower than others, though. Since it is a saga that spans 3 generations of Palestinian women, there are a lot of characters to keep track of. The writing is very good and kept my interest. My biggest complaint is that the story ended abruptly, after getting to know the characters so well.
Very good historical novel through three generations. Rich characters. Glad it was a lengthy book and I still didn't want it to end. Recommend.
While there are some good and interesting parts of this book, I was generally underwhelmed.
I like the occasional steamy romance as much as the next person, but I found the three romances to be pretty formulaic and felt like the frequent sex scenes were distracting from (what I found to be) the more interesting character development and historical context.
One thing I liked from this author was the way she shifted focus of the stories based on the stage of the women's lives- the dramatic tumultuous times of youth took center stage in each story - with the more settled, quiet times blending into the background.
I also liked her pragmatism around relationships- both the romantic and familial ones.

Tradition vs. independent desireThe story follows 3 generations of mothers & daughters in Palestine. They each struggle with family traditions vs. their own desires. The history of the country was very interesting as was each women's life story.
Wow...An emotional rollercoaster which lead me to read the book in 2 days. Amazing, heart wrenching, infuriating, beautiful and poignant. One of the best books I have read.
Brilliant, Thought Provoking & Memorable!
Palestine from the 1890s until the mid 1950s.Three generations of Arab Christian daughters each with their own heartaches and secrets.Some sex and abusive languagevery limited violence
It also speaks to the challenges women face due to the rigid rules of this culture.The story was very engaging throughout and the characters were all very interesting.
It was a 700 page novel but I felt that it was a quick read and found myself always wanting to get back to it when life forced me to set it aside.
There were definitely parts that I enjoyed more than others but overall I was engaged by this story to the very end.There was quite a bit of romance but it was well done so as not be corny or sentimental.
The story and the characters would have easily carried this novel without it.
To be honest, I couldn't finish it. It started out great, the lives of 3 daughters in succession. It was historical fiction - took place in Turkey and at first I thought maybe it would be about the Armenian genocide in Turkey. The first two women's lives were very interesting indeed and I wish the book had continued in that vein. Instead it descended into deception, scheming characters, and far more description of sexual activity than I care to read. So...sadly 2 stars. It was 4 until the third daughter appeared.
Epic!The story spans three generations or more of history. Both world wars and the fastly changing world that followed are a compelling backdrop to a presentation of a family’s generational struggles in the West Bank area and in the world beyond.
Epic, heartwrenching, but ridiculously long. I recommend listening to the audio book.
SO disappointed! This looked like it was going to be so good! Didn’t even finish. The main character is too feministic for her era. And there’s a graphic extra-marital affair. Eew.
Reminded me of A Thousand Splendid Suns
