https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32713781-yankee-stranger
"It was her birthday, and she was ninety-five."Tibby Day might be ninety-five, but she's still the matriarch of the Day/Sprague families and a real treat for those who read her story in Dawn's Early Light, the first book in Thane's Williamsburg series.
Tensions between the North and the South are heating up, and Yankee Cabot Murray finds himself a not so welcome guest in some households, but Tibby welcomes him into her home and marks him as the one man suitable for her favorite granddaughter Eden.
**sniff**The large extended Day/Sprague families are a bit confusing at the start, so keep your focus on Eden/Cabot, Tibby and Sue/Sedgwick and the rest of them will fit into place as you continue reading.
It sounds like a story about Eden and Cabot, right?
But I would say this is more a story about the Day/Sprague family (Tibby and Julian's children and grandchildren) and their experiences as a Southern family during the Civil War. I liked the parts that included the family and Thane does an excellent job of showing what it was like for Southerners during the war and the relationships and interactions between Southerners and Northerners.
Eden and Cabot's relationship, which was more central to the book than any other couples' relationship, was a little shallow for me.
It is always wonderful to find a new author although this one has been around since the Forties!Her second book continues the saga of the family in Williamsburg begun in her first book, Dawn's Early Life.In this one, the heroine of Dawn's Early Light lives to a ripe old age, sees war break out again and her granddaughters fall in love.
With the embargo enforced, the south turned to smuggling but it still did not bring in enough.In the meantime we read on as Eden in besieged Richmond struggles with her love for a Yankee while seeing so many die or disabled.Gran survives through the war to celebrate her 100th birthday though others are not lucky.
The only sense I ever get is that because the Days and Spragues have black servants, not slaves, it doesn't matter because they're happy being "taken care of." I still enjoyed the overall story, but this time some of the closeness of the family relationships due to marriage made me a little squeamish.
On the eve of the Civil War, Eden meets Cabot Murray, a Yankee journalist, and they fall in love, much to the chagrin of her family and friends.
This was the first book by Elswyth Thane I ever read, and it is still one of my favorites. It has it all - the handsome Yankee, the beautiful southern belle, love and war. Second in her Williamsburg novels, it tells the story of the love that grows between Cabot Murray, hardened Yankee newspaper reporter and the loving Virginia family that accepts him into their lives. All the women flutter around Cabot, but it is lovely Eden Day who captures his heart. Of course there's this pesky war to get over first, but love conquers all in the end.
Wow. I--don't quite know what to say.First, let me just say that this book is VERY good.
The two people in particular who drove me Slightly Batty were Cabot and Eden (naturally, the main characters).
But so does his patronizing way of calling Eden "my dear", and his over-the-top "confidence" about her, and when Eden tells him that she can't actually leave with him because her mother is DYING and he's like "you suuuuuure you can't come with me?" I mean, really.
I mean, when you think about all she went through, all the horrors she experiences...Other things I liked about the book...well, all the references!
When sheltered Eden Day meets brash northerner Cabot Murray on a stormy day in Williamsburg, she is struck by his charm and good looks but instinctively knows he can bring nothing but upheaval to her life.
She is from a distinguished Virginia family and he is a Yankee, unwelcome in town as the war is about to break out between the States.
Yet Eden's great-grandmother Tibby sees something in Cabot that reminds her of her husband and encourages the romance...
A strong competitor to Gone with the Wind for best Civil War novel.
This one takes readers through the civil war and has characters on both sides giving what I felt like a good look into the lives of the people at the time.
Thane leaves you wanting to learn more and I applaud an author that has the ability to spark an interest for learning, in her case about history.
I think the unique thing about these books is that they give insight into the commmon man's life.
Most history books focus on the leaders of the time and while she incorporates those figures into her stories her main focus is on the civilians and what they live through.
This is a wonderful book and I liked it as well as Dawn's Early Light and intend to read the whole series. This is the story of the Day and Sprague families as they live through the miseries of the civil war and with all the triumphs, tragedys and romantic entanglements. Highly recommend to all history buffs.
Loved it! This is one I come back to and read over and over again. I love the tragedy of it and the bits of humor sprinkled throughout. And I love the incredibly romantic hero...even if he is a Yankee!
I was so taken with the characters in this book that I named my daughter Susannah, after one of the heroines of this book. You could say that I like the read!
Loved ALL of the Williamsburg novels, first read them as a teenager, always thought they'd make a great mini-series! Plan to read them all again in the near future!
There he meets the intertwined Sprague and Day families, and against his will falls in love with beautiful, seventeen-year-old Eden Day. Though he tries hard to stay away, he cannot; thus their love story plays out against the backdrop of the Civil War, with Cabot serving first as a Special Correspondent for the North, while Eden remains loyal to the South, where she was raised, as her brothers, cousin, father, uncle, and many friends quickly enlist.
While their story is the primary focus, others play out as well, with many details depicting the tragedy of war and its outcome.
It's been a very long time since I read them, and while the story is still entertaining and engaging, some things really grated on me.
The family featured in the story didn't "own" slaves, but the attitude toward their black servants was very paternal.
The author completely ignores reconstruction, and there are a lot of men nearly thirty falling in love with women in their teens.
As a young teen reading these books from my grandmother's shelves, I wouldn't have noticed any of this.
As an adult, it's impossible to ignore, and definitely reduces my enjoyment.
I remember reading this book when I was 14 years old, that was 50 years ago .I fell i love with it then and.
lIt is a well written book that introduces you to the Day family just as the civil war is about to impact and change their beautiful lives forever.
I love this family and how they stand by one another as they endure the destruction of their lives and struggle to maintain there decency as their beloved Eden Day falls in love with Cabot.Murray , a Yankee Stranger.
I could not put it down as I once again got loss in this.old fashion romance with the civil war as a back drop.
The 2nd book in the Williamsburg series, now set in the Civil War era. The characters introduced, including the Yankee who becomes part of the family and the scion in the next book, are again fascinating. The battles of the Civil War, what happened to the men and women of the families during that very difficult period, are told in riveting detail. Again, highly recommend it.
A little more romance than I am looking for in a book, but the historic information is so compelling that I continue with this series.The Civil War from the point of view mostly of Southerners behind the scenes is not a prospective often seen.
Reads a lot like Gone with the Wind
Read it at age 16. Again today. Still enjoyed..
This is the 4th or 5th time I’ve read this book and it still made me cry. Oh poor Sue!
My rating of this harkens back to when I first read and re-read it at age 14. For all that it was one of my favorite books for a time, I've never reread it as an adult. I'm a little afraid to. Seems to me that even then I thought it was a little corny. Well, it can revel in its five stars for now.
I liked this one a little better; the characters were more believable and the plot line followed the war time line.
That said, there were several cringe-worthy elements based on the time period and sensibilities of the author: The family of southerners offers the standard "our slaves are happy they way they are and wouldn't know what to do with freedom" line (and the "diction" for the slave characters is just atrocious).
Looking past that and the near hero-worship of some of the Southern military leaders, the book is enjoyable.

12/2012 ** Southern Belles smuggling drugs into Richmond, VA during the American Civil War; POW camps; romance, war, etc.I began reading this series when I was in middle or high school more than 30 years ago.
I was pleasantly surprised when I read the first book in this series that the racist overtones (happy slave, etc.) weren't as dominant as I'd remembered from the last time I read the series 5-6 years ago.
However, when I read this one, this week, I was struck by how pronounced Thane made the Black dialect.
Way over the top.However, the story is compelling, and the characters well drawn.
This is #2 of the Williamsburg series.
Two generations have passed since the action in Dawn's Early Light, and the US sits on the cusp of the Civil War. The story revolves around Julian Day's great-granddaughters, Eden and Susannah, and the men they love, one a Yankee, the other a Reb. The story once again is well told, and this time there is less detail of battles and Ms Thane stays away from reading like a History textbook.
We are also introduced to Cabot Murray, a newspaper man, with whom Eden falls in love.
Loved the romance between the two main characters. However, this is a book that was written in the 1940's and its viewpoint on the issue slavery would be offensive to many in this day and age. Also, the writer does write romanticize the Confederate war heroes in the same vein as Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind (GWTW). This being said it is a very good depiction of the Civil War with wonderful character development and detail to the history and struggles of the time. For fans of GWTW, Yankee Stranger would be a novel you'd probably love.
Since I had my hands on a very old copy, this book was all the more enjoyable. I love yellowed pages that carry that 'book' smell. Nice love story. I loved reading it. I wouldn't depend on this book for my sole exposure to civil war fiction, as others I've read do a better job of presenting that aspect of the story. 'History' didn't seem to be the primary purpose of this book, though, so its being a love story was just great. It DID serve the 'love story' purpose well. I'll have to look for other books by Thane.
I wasn't sure that I was going to be able to get into this book when I first started it but it wasn't very long before I found myself really enjoying it. There is civil war history, family, a little romance, sorrow and happiness in this book and I thought it was very well written. Not everyone gets a happily ever after but that is part of what makes it such a good book, the sense of reality and the possibility that it could have happened this way. I will be looking for more books by this author.
The stars are for character development and colorful descriptives. This book is my least favorite of the series mainly due to the author's highly misguided viewpoint of slavery. I suppose there may have been some southern families who treated their slaves so well that the freedom movement was just stuff and nonsense, but the thought that owning any human could be seen as quaint and just is laughable.Read this for the family continuity and the engaging characters.
#2 in the Williamsburg Series. An old favorite of mine which I read back in the 50s. The story is quite good and the historical parts are accurate; what sets one back a bit is the very unPC prose of the author in certain places and the clinging to the fantasy that house slaves were more loyal to a white family than field hands. The author wrote this book shortly after "Gone With the Wind" and you can certainly feel its vibes. Unlike GWTW however, it does have a HEA.
