https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48323.Death_in_a_Strange_Country
3,5 stars"Death in a Strange Country, is the second book in Donna Leon’s Guido Brunetti Series.When the body of Sgt. Michael Foster, a public health inspector at the American base in Vicenza, is pulled up from a canal in Venice, it looks like a mugging gone wrong.
The best of us can rise to feeling concern for our families, but as a nation we are incapable of more.’‘I refuse to believe that.’ Brunetti said.‘Your refusal to believe it,’ the Count said with a smile that was almost tender, ‘makes it no less true, Guido.”– Poala’s father’s answer to Brunetti’s question about the corruption and ineptitude of their government.
Reading this #2 in the series when I have already read 20 other Guido Brunetti- it was hard to star it.
Informative as that was, it often was too formal in an exposure style to the well-known Brunetti kin and relatives, those especially.
Because here Guido is not as maturely kind nor does he hold the depths to FULL knowledge of the "unfair" as he seems to hold later in the series.
And moreover by what his eyes tell him is so.This mystery had a diffuse and non-completed to usual police case for duo murder ending, IMHO.
While I couldn't care less about the mystery in this book (though (view spoiler)[ugh!
that entire cocaine side plot - what was THAT - and I can and cannot believe it ends without the Americans' murders getting tied up well (hide spoiler)]), I care very deeply about Brunetti's dinner plans.
Here are some great things included in this installment:- Paola cooking risotto con zucca and veal.
‘I wonder why it is, that they always smile so much.’ He had noticed the same thing, each time he was in America.
‘Why shouldn’t they smile, Guido?
Why shouldn’t they smile?’

I really like the protagonist in this series and I enjoy the Venetian setting, but this book was disappointing in that there was no resolution. It just ended and I was beginning to lose interest by that time anyway. Although I’m not American, I didn’t particularly care for the subtle anti-American sentiments in this story. The first book was far more enjoyable. I do plan on reading a few more in this series, since I have heard that they apparently take off after the fourth book. I’ll see.
I read the first one of these because Ursula Le Guin recommended them (in Words Are My Matter) and I mildly liked it, and therefore I kept this one around for a long time without starting it. Mistake. This, is utterly brilliant. It's a book about Venice and integrity. Read it now. You don't need to read the first one first, this would work perfectly well as a standalone.
The crime, of course, is intriguing enough to keep the reader turning pages but the pleasure is the setting in which it is wrapped: the place and the people.
The Commissario alone would guarantee Donna Leon's rightful place among the best of her peers, but there are other subtle virtues not to be overlooked.
At one point, Paola Brunetti makes a risotto for her husband.
Paola saw that he had passed beyond the point of hunger and was eating for the pleasure of the act ..." Contemplating the long list of Donna Leon's other titles, one experiences a similar sensation.
They tend to be arrogant, of course, but Americans are really too insecure to be truly arrogant, "unlike the Germans." Classic.Brunetti is walking home through "battalions of ravaging tourists who centered their attacks on the area around San Marcos.
Brunetti's superior would like nothing better than to have the case buried, because the idea of an American being killed in Venice would ruin the tourist trade.
An army captain, Dr. Peters, a woman doctor, who had come to Venice to identify the body in the morgue, had vomited from what Brunetti thought was from fear, when she saw how the man had been killed, by a knife plunging directly through the ribs into the heart.
It is our glory, but it will be our destruction, for none of us can be made to concern ourselves about something as abstract as "the common good." The best of us can rise to feeling concern for our families, but as a nation, we are incapable of more.'Of course Brunetti doesn't believe this, and neither does Paola, as Orazio acknowledges: "That is perhaps the finest thing I have achieved in my life, that my daughter does not share my beliefs." Yet "Brunetti took his rage home with him, and it sat between him and his family as he ate." It is only satisfied by the rage of another, more powerful, it turns out, than the Count with his millions and his contacts in high places.
I wish, oh, I wish, that I were reading Brunetti mysteries in order, because any book to follow this one would either have to ignore this one completely or make Brunetti have to deal in some kind of positive way with the darkness he enters in the course of investigating the terrible dilemmas and evils that are a result of getting rid of toxic waste.
The last sentence of the book made me cry, because Paolo, Guido's wife, asks him why he is crying, and there is no single answer possible for him to say, nothing he can even share with her without dealing with problems in her own family.
This is the second in the (now) extensive series of novels featuring Guido Brunetti, Commissario of the Venice Police.
It looks like a simple mugging, but as usual, Brunetti isn’t prepared to take things at face value, however much his wonderfully drawn and infuriating boss, Patta, would like him to.
The politics, collusion between the police and other parts of the establishment, and insight into Venice and Italy are always fascinating.
The outcomes of her novels are sometimes pretty bleak, but you feel as though you’re getting the truth.
A body is pulled out of the canal in Venice dead from an apparent stab wound.
Advanced dental work and physical fitness suggests an American and Venetian detective Brunetti calls the nearby U.S. military base to see if anyone is missing.
It turns out that the dead soldier is a hospital administrator, and the only person who cares he is dead is a female pediatrician, who had more than a professional relationship with the deceased.
Brunetti investigates over the objections of his politically minded superior and uncovers a much ore nefarious crime, to which he puts an end.
Leon's talent is describing the city and culture of Venice.
At 2 stars, that's generous. I liked the first one just enough to try another, but I won't be fooled again. I can't really think of anything I did like about this book, with the possible exception of the descriptions of Venice - on which too much time is spent, really. The plot was so incredible and full of implications rather than actual explanations that it became extremely annoying. The protagonist is mediocre at best, and his interactions with family and colleagues was never believable. I give up.
But Brunetti finds reasons to be skeptical of that explanation.Sgt. Michael Foster was a public health inspector at the army base and Guido suspects that his death may somehow be related to his job.
Perhaps he had uncovered problems related to public health that those in authority did not want brought to the attention of the media and the public.Brunetti travels to Vicenza, talks to Foster's commander, who it turns out was also his lover, and his sense of uneasiness that something is very wrong with the whole situation grows.
He appears to have been mugged, but Brunetti suspects there is something more going on, particularly when evidence has been planted and his superior insists that he close the case.The author does really well to convey the frustration of our detective when he comes up against the wall of powerful people in society who appear to be able to do as they please with impunity.
The ending was a bit contrived, but it helped to ease the feelings of futility and rage against a corrupt government that is all too real in our world.
At least in our books we can still have a (semi) satisfying ending.
When the body of a young man is pulled from a Venetian canal, the signs indicate he was victim of a violent mugging.
However, Commissario Brunetti is not convinced, and when his investigations indicate a possible link to politicians and businessmen, he believes that the proposed solution is all too convenient.
Leon's writing is brilliantly evocative, her detailed knowledge of Venice shines through and is weaved into an intriguing plot.
Nonetheless, Donna Leon has written another intelligent and thought-provoking crime novel, and this is a series well worth following.
This series has all the makings of a good mystery series – the city as an ever-present character and lots of very, very specific local details; plot lines involving structural/community issues and corruption; a main character with an internal moral code that you can mostly get on board with; lots of quality personal time with the main character and his thoughts.
I’m not terribly interested in Venice as a city so some if it is lost on me, but the books are good.I read some interviews with the author and she seems like an insufferable ex-pat, which is too bad.
Brunetti identifies a man found floating in a canal as an American military health inspector.
Patta pressures Brunetti to accept a concocted explanation which will appease high profile persons in Venice.
Vicardi, one such influential person, reports stolen paintings.
A recently released criminal becomes the immediate suspect in the painting thefts.
Brunetti continues to investigate the murder as he can but one person he plans to interview dies before he gets to do so.
This installment's plot stretches the boundaries of belief, even for a country with as much corruption as the Italy portrayed by Leon.
The ending does not completely satisfy.
The body of an American soldier is found floating in a canal, and while his boss wants the case closed as quickly as possible as a mugging gone wrong, Brunetti digs deeper and finds more and more evidence pointing toward the young man's death being part of a cover-up to keep a conspiracy between the Mafia and the US and Italian governments involving the illegal dumping of toxic waste under wraps.Another quick and entertaining read that kept me guessing. Definitely enjoying this series so far.
I find it difficult to express all that I got from this book.
The mystery, of course, but the look into the Italian culture and the attitude of the Italians toward their own government as well as toward the U.S. was a large part of the experience.
Though some reviewers were dissatisfied with the end I thought it ended in the most realistic way that it could when taking all the factors into account.
Two very different countries & cultures, with Venice and its own distinct culture as the setting.
And the Mafia of course.
Of course I've read other books set in Italy but this one has made the biggest impact.
This is the second in the Commissario Brunetti series, which I have been reading as they become available from the downloadable library, so not necessarily in order. From this series you can find out a lot about Venice, where they are set, and the Italian government and police politics. This one was a bit depressing in that corruption seems to have won out, but there is a bit of a surprise ending, still sad. Still, the setting comes to life, and her writing is good.
A quick and enjoyable read. I liked this one much better than the first in the series. More going on, as Brunnetti tries to weave all the threads together into a cohesive conclusion. Leon did not wrap up quite everything, which is more realistic and leaves the reader wondering but not in a bad way. I look forward to walking with Brunnetti again or perhaps I should say taking the vaporetto around Venice with him while solving the next crime to come his way!
Brunetti hat es, diesmal mit Gegnern zu tun, die politisch und wirtschaftlich sehr gut vernetzt sind. Und das Buch hat kein Happy End. Es lässt einen traurig zurück, aber gleichzeitig ist auch klar, dass ein solches Ende wohl realistisch ist. Donna Leon schafft es wieder, die Beteiligten sehr plastisch darzustellen. Insbesondere mit Brunetti fühlt man unwillkürlich mit. Die eigentliche Kriminaltory ist gar nicht mal etwas Besonderes, aber die Art, sie zu erzählen, durchaus.
It is so fun to have found a new mystery series with a great location. In this second of many, Commissario Brunetti deals with the corrupt environment in which he lives and works, including the Mafia, the government, his father-in-law, his own boss, the U.S. military. The story has no resolution to much of the uncovered crooked power and greed...no surprise!
Another very good mystery in the Commissario Guido Brunetti series set in Venice, this about a young American Army man, a public health inspector at the American base in Vicenza, who is discovered in the canal dead. What looks on the surface to be just a random mugging is of course not and Brunetti has to do a lot of sleuthing, against the wishes of his bosses, to figure out why the murder happened. I love Leon's stories and as always her vivid descriptions of one of the world's most beautiful cities. Recommend!
Bleak and hopeless in the good-man vs. machine way. Has the customary Brunetti joie de vivre nonetheless, and the detection is realistic and well-written. The ending / denouement was a bit contrived. Excellent read overall.
Second book in the Brunetti series. This features the American army based in Italy and explores disposal of toxic waste with high end cover up. There are elements of comedy with Brunetti’s ongoing disagreement with Patta. Really enjoying this series and would recommend.
I loved this book. On the second book in the series!
Thoroughly enjoyable.
3.5 starsI think this series would make a decent TV show... And despite all of the murders, it still makes me want to go to Venice ;) lol
