https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815716.The_21_Irrefutable_Laws_of_Leadership
The Law of the Lid: Leadership Ability Determines a Person’s Level of Effectiveness.2.
The Law of Influence: The True Measure of Leadership Is Influence—Nothing More, Nothing Less.3.
The Law of Process: Leadership Develops Daily, Not in a Day.4.
The Law of Addition: Leaders Add Value by Serving Others.6.
The Law of Solid Ground: Trust Is the Foundation of Leadership.7.
The Law of Intuition: Leaders Evaluate Everything with a Leadership Bias.9.
The Law of The Inner Circle: A Leader’s Potential Is Determined by Those Closest to Him.12.
The Law of Legacy: A Leader’s Lasting Value Is Measured by Succession.
Again I read this book because it is a business book and was recommended by this work thing I was doing.
The category it notes next to the barcode is business/religion- not exactly what you want to see on a business book.
There were lots of references to church and organized church that kind of threw me off from the interesting stories that really took up most of the book.
The stories in the book are related to mostly historical references of other businesses- short stories and for the most part- it seemed like most of the "irrefutable" laws- were common sense, for most of us...
As a leader, or if you aspire to be one this book is a must read. Here's what's inside:I. The Law Of the Lid: II. The Law of Influence: III. The Law of Process: IV. The Law of Navigation: V. The Law of Addition: VI. The Law of Solid Ground: VII. The Law of Respect: VIII. The Law of Intuition: IX. The Law of Magnetism: X. The Law of Connection: Leaders touch a heart before they ask for a hand.XI. The Law of the Inner Circle: A leader’s potential is determined by those closest to himXII. The Law o
The Law of Intuition: IX.
The Law of Magnetism: X.
The Law of Connection: Leaders touch a heart before they ask for a hand.XI.
The Law of the Inner Circle: A leader’s potential is determined by those closest to himXII.
The Law of Empowerment: Only secure leaders give power to othersXIII.
The Law of Buy-in: People buy into the leader, then the vision.XV.
The Law of Victory: Leaders find a way for the team to win.XVI.
The Law of the Big Mo: Momentum is a leader’s best friedXVII.
The Law of Sacrifice: A leader must give up to go up.XIX.
Maxwell’s leadership laws are succinct and highly useful.
The Law Of the Lid: Leadership ability determines a person’s level of effectiveness.II.
The Law of Influence: The true measure of leadership is influence—nothing more, nothing less.
The Law of Process: Leadership develops daily, not in a day.IV.
The Law of Respect: People naturally follow leaders stronger than themselvesVIII.
The Law of Intuition: Leaders evaluate everything with a leadership biasIX.
The Law of Buy-in: People buy into the leader, then the vision.XV.
The Law of Sacrifice: A leader must give up to go up.XIX.
The Law of Legacy: A leader’s lasting value is measured by succession.
Ugh. I think there were important lessons in this book, but they were obfuscated by Maxwell's "horn tooting" and "back slapping".
Wow, this man LOVES himself, and he thinks he has the most impressive history of EVER.I DID love his descriptions of Harriet Tubman as a female leader, and even Mother Teresa.
I had to quit reading when he talked (AT LENGTH) about how his wife leads in the home.
Also, the way he manipulated people in the churches he lead was simply that, MANIPULATION, not really leadership.
Why is this guy so popular??Perhaps I'll go back and read the last 9 laws or whatever, but it'll be awhile.
لا تنسى اصطحاب الناس معك ليصبحوا قادة الغد..جولة بديعة مع فن القيادة.. فن التأثير والعمل والخلود..كتاب بديع وانصحك بقراءته ولو لم تكن بوظيفة قيادية
, 3 Ways of Improving Your Life, etc.I just read the first irrefutable law: The Law of the Lid. It is argued that there is a capacity to our leadership and some people's lid is higher than others.
Then he addresses it directly by highlighting that in volunteer organizations, leadership is all influence since position doesn't provide one the juice it does in the military or in business.
Again, did it take a book to point this out?The Law of Priorities tells us that leaders focus their efforts on those things that will deliver the most bang for the buck.
This is an awesome on leadership. I recommend it to all who obtain a leadership position and to all of those whom desire one.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
As Maxwell notes in Law Number 3, leadership is a process that “develops daily, not in a day.” Reading Maxwell’s book reinforces what many of us already know about leadership and reminds us to put those theories into practice every day.
Even you don’t read the entire book, filling out the evaluation and understanding your strengths and weaknesses will help you reach your potential as a leader and manager.Because “The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership” is well written and well organized, it can be read in three ways:  • Cover to cover over a period of days.
Hey, it's good work if you can get it, writing self-help books for the Christian market.
And it chooses the cutest little examples - like how the McDonald's founders were nice guys and good salespeople but they really didn't have a leadership perspective so the restaurant never got going until this Ray guy came along....He left out the part about the invention that freeze dried potatoes.
I shouldn't have picked up a book designed for older white men in Christian leadership and expected it to apply to me.
كعادته جون سي ماكسويل متمكن من موضوعه-القيادة - طرحه قيم- مبني علي مواقف واقعية وقصص من السير الذاتي
As a leader who has read this book several times, I take offense to some of the poor reviews listed. Reading the reviews, it's easy to see that those who didn't enjoy it lack the ability to comprehend the enormity of the information they were given. This book will change your life, it is considered by the greatest leaders in the world to be THE premier book on leadership. To some of the individuals who didn't like the book, I will offer this word of advice: It is hard to learn something new, when you already know everything.
Despite everything, this book was quite good. Maxwell is capable of leaning into the cliches, and he points to some leaders who were painfully incompetent, but who are lauded generally for other reasons, but setting all that aside, the principles outlined in this book were very, very good.
The results: during my HPL I started to focus on management and how to be trusting them and trying to be focused and calm but sometimes was confusing due to the definition of some people due to leadership skills Rule number 2.
During my HPL project, my team gives me the feedback that 4.4 out of 5 which is fairly good to know that you are the leader that people loves you and listen to you!Rule number 6.
on these years I see the leaders listen and work as one team and see the people as one of the family is the person followed with many leaders.Rule number 8.
One of the points I most appreciated and gained from what Maxwell’s “Law of Magnetism.” As Maxwell states it, “who you are is who you attract.” As consider my own ministry and style of leadership, I must forever keep in mind that, of all things, I must work on who I am before the Lord.
And thus as a leader I will inevitably draw those of like-mindedness, those who are “kindred spirits.” “If you want to attract better people,” writes Maxwell, “become the kind of person you desire to attract” (110).
This book was fine. It provides a lot of common sense ideas that warrant repeating. Although Maxwell provides many great examples to illustrate his 21 laws, he uses way too many sports examples. If you're not a sports fan (and I'm not), all of the sports illustrations are completely irrelevant. I couldn't care less.
Awesome book. I was not planning on becoming a leader, and I picked this up as a self development book, which I recommend you do too, but as cheasy as it might sound, it made me search and find the leader in me. :))
My boss, who made out leadership team read this, is absolutely gonna hate my review. But this was seriously the most bullshit leadership training book I have ever read.

None of the "laws" is based on any sort of study, although the author tries to give the appearance of quantification by saying things like, a 7 leader will attract 5s and 6s, and increasing from a 6 to a 7 will actually improve you by 600% (with a little graph based on a rectangle) and so on, but the numbers don't actually mean anything -- what is a 5, what is a 7, it's all just made up.Each "law" is illustrated with some sort of anecdote which just asserts that the celebrity in question used the "law", which of course most of them would never have heard of in the first place.
He is very blunt and presents the material in a very "common-sense" way.Maxwell really focuses on what is important.
He says, "The true meaning of leadership is influence- nothing more, nothing less," and "Trust is the foundation of leadership." Two statements that seem like common sense, but some leaders lack.One thing I found the most interesting was his claim that managing is not true leadership.
Whether you are currently in a leadership position, at the bottom of the corporate ladder, or on the verge of retirement, you will learn something from Maxwell.
This book takes a different angle than most leadership books. Instead of telling you want you need to do to be successful, John C Maxwell tells stories of where known leaders such as Henry Ford screwed up. In theses specific stories the author tells about the law that was violated, and how much more successful they would have been if they knew these laws like the back of their hand.
Another disappointing overrated book by John Maxwell. It's all about 'what' to do without showing 'how' to do it.I had to close the book half way through. It is those kinds of books that really make me mistrust public wisdom.
Today I stand on the shoulders of many leaders who have added great value to my life. Tomorrow I hope you will be able to stand on my shoulders.- John C. Maxwell
Super insightful, relatively short read. The author does a great job building credibility and walking the reader through these 21 laws.
Some people will read this book and feel like all of these laws are common sense.
Likewise, I will be curious to hear if anybody thinks they know of a law he "missed." As far as I can observe, whether or not somebody doesn't like his style of writing, his religious and church related anecdotes, or any lack-of-depth he shows on the examples doesn't change the fact that the Laws themselves hold value.As far as the way he presents his argument goes, the book is hardly a strenuous read.
Who am I to refute any of the 21 Irrefutable Laws?
They're all fine as far as I know.The only parts of the book that make me feel uncomfortable are when Maxwell writes about leading a church as though it's the same as leading a business.
It's very un-American of me, I know; but these silly ideals I have, I just can't get rid of them entirely.Other than that, everything in this book reads like everything in many other leadership books.
Maxwell's laws make most sense in a strictly corporate setting, and are somewhat harder to apply in a non-profit setting.
It's not a bad book, and Maxwell has a friendly, positive tone throughout.
It is true that Maxwell found his leadership successful through devotion to his religion and leadership of high profile churches.
To influence and lead volunteers, as in a church organisation, is surely one of the most challenging leadership roles one could occupy.
This requires total devotion of the denomination to the leader, or else they may simply choose another church (or elect a new leader).
For this reason, it never appears as if Maxwell's followers were obliged to stick by him as a leader, rather they chose to.
Readers should also know that this is largely a 'what skills you need' sort of book.
Jos et ole lukenut ikinä mitään johtamisesta, niin tästä kirjasta on hyvä aloittaa. Tässä on nimittäin kaikki klisheet yhdessä paketissa. Jos olet lukenut jonkun bisneskirjan tai johtamisoppaan, niin tämä ei tuo mitään uuttaa. Esimerkkeinä on käytetty Mcdonaldsia, Fordia, Steve Jobsia ja Roald Amudsenia jne.Yllätysbonuksen tuovat pari esimerkkiä kirkon jäsenmäärän kasvattamisesta hyvällä johtamisella.
Left me wanting more and praying to see these laws come to fruition in my own leadership journey. He breaks down the most essential parts of leadership in ways a new leader can understand. An absolute must read for anyone aspiring to be a leader in any capacity.
