https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92762.Harpist_in_the_Wind
(Heir of Sea and Fire)I cannot review the books in this series individually because they've come to form one achingly beautiful tapestry for me, one epic story broken up into three parts.
This is an epic and simultaneously intimate story, one that is so perfect it makes me catch my breath in awe.
The language is poetry breathing through prose, elegant and lyrical, and it manages to capture the things that seemingly cannot be put into words.The grandeur of this series, the emotional intimacy, the thematic perfection, is something relatively matchless, I think, in the field of classic high fantasy.
It certainly, FINALLY, answers the myriad of questions that have been raised & comes to a resounding conclusion, but it wasn't blood thirsty enough & idolizes the idea of 'doing no harm'.Let me explain.
It's not blood thirsty enough because our hero has put up with a lot & this is a sword & sorcery book.
It's possible that I was just frustrated a bit because this book couldn't top the first two & I really wanted it to.
I listened to the series opener (The Riddle-Master of Hed) and Harpist in the Wind (this book), skipping book 2 because it sounded like filler and many reviews stated that the story became more gripping in book 3.
Why didn't Morgon kill the villains????
Now they will probably just escape and kill millions.
As with many fantasies, invented names for characters and places are hard to differentiate and remember via audio (An, Aum, Ohm, El, Iff, Nun, Tel, Tor, Hed, Har, Rood, Rork, Ymris, Yrth, etc) so I referred to a VERY helpful website: https://wizzley.com/riddle-master/
Patricia McKillip keeps readers in suspense until the very end of the book; Morgon struggles with riddles and how to master his power in order to end the war while you, the reader, growls in frustration.
While he is still hiding from the shape-changers and trying to find their place in this power struggle, he is also wary of Yrth, a Lungold wizard who is accompanying he and Raederle on their desperate journey across the land.
Because this is the last book, riddles are answered, the true nature of shape-changers are seen, and the power of the realm is finally settled.
I feel satisfied with the answers to the riddles, and the ending is beautiful, especially Chapter 15, the second to last chapter of the novel.
I went on a journey with Morgon, trying like he does to answer the riddles of his destiny and of the past, present, and future of the High One's realm.
The story is complex, but even when I felt most confused while reading, I was still enthralled by McKillip's prose and by the characters.
I'm curious now about what other riddles McKillip has woven into stories.
There are some fantasy epics that all literature professors, and most normal people, would consider essential reading for any well-educated person — J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, Lewis Carroll, etc.
So, yeah, I read those a long time ago.
But beyond that, there's not much fantasy literature that's essential reading.
So, for a long time, I didn't read any.
In my drive to be educated, I stuck to the classics (which are classic because they're great literature, usually).
But one day, maybe 15 years ago, Patricia McKillip's RIDDLE-MASTER fell into my hands.
I can't remember exactly when, and I can't remember how.
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
All the place names and people that were mentioned slid off my mind like beads of water while I fixated on the main character, Morgon of Hed, his funny, brawling family, and his high-tempered friend, Prince Rood of An. And of course, once I realized that there was a romance in this book, I was hooked.
With visions of a beautiful, amber-eyed redhead dancing in his mind, he sets out from Hed with the intention of coming forward with the crown and seeking Raederle's hand.As much as Morgon would have been perfectly content to take his princess back to Hed and return to farming, making beer, and bickering with his siblings, the universe has other plans for him.
Sometimes I find story-lines that catch me at the heart, and this was one of them. The characters in this series are creative and varied, and the plot goes much deeper than I expected it to when I first stumbled upon these books in a used bookstore. Morgon experiences an incredible amount of character growth and change. But the part that held me the most was the true identity of (view spoiler)[ Deth (hide spoiler)] and the relationship this character has with Morgon. (view spoiler)[ I knew from
But the part that held me the most was the true identity of (view spoiler)[ Deth  (hide spoiler)] and the relationship this character has with Morgon.
(view spoiler)[ I knew from the beginning that there was something different and special about him, and while I had bits and pieces of it, the book gave a very satisfying explanation.
(hide spoiler)]My only complaints are similar to those I've had with other books written by this author -- the endings are wrapped up very quickly.
There were also a few points I'd wished had been addressed further: (view spoiler)[ Raederle's struggle with her identity/accepting her heritage, and the relationship between her and Morgon.
So I do like the story this told, but I think I'm sticking with the feeling that the writing just was a bit lost on me.I did, however, have to stay up until I finished this last night, which says something!
Good end to a good series.Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #374.
Mostly for the purely symbolic way Ms. McKillip has woven events of riddlery like unto prophecy, and how those events shape and bind upon the Starbearer an unimaginable outcome, foreshadowing the coming of the High One. Surely there is much in these novels that is delightful, powerfully awesome fantasy!
I feel Ms. McKillip's masterful storytelling becomes like unto our own story of our own journey unto the High One, the One who has bound all power unto Himself and binds upon those who love Him, that same power.
I don't want to spoil any part of these really wonderful books for anyone 2.
I actually love this series too much to really write coherently about it?
This is an ending that is fully worth all the time I put into the first book as a magic- and mystery-loving teenager.
Fittingly enough for a writer of her calibre and sensibility, McKillip doesn't half-ass that the way so many fantasy series do; she's no doubt aware of how human it is for all of us to want more stories with these people and/or in this place, but this is the story.
ის მომენტი წინა წიგნიდან რომ არაფერი ვიცოდით მთავარ ანტაგონისტებზე, ის თუ რა მოტივაცია ამოძრავებდათ მათ, რაც მაგრად მაღიზიანებდა და შეგრძნებას მიტოვებდა რომ ხელოვნურად წელავდა წიგნს, აბსოლუტურად გამართლებული აღმოჩნდა.
მორგონის გაზრდა-განვითარების პროცესი ძალიან საინტერესოდ მიდის და პერსონაჟებიც მოტივირებული და ლოგიკურები არიან წინა წიგნისგან განსხვავებით.ისევე როგორც წინა ორში, აქაც არ არის მასშტაბური საბრძოლო სცენები და აქცენტი უფრო მორგონის შინაგან სამყაროზე და მის განვითარებაზეა გაკეთებული.
იდეალური ვარიანტია იმ ერთფეროვნებისგან თავის დასაღწევად რომელიც ამ ტრილოგიის წერის პროცესში იყო გამეფებული ფენტეზი სამყაროში.
საბოლოო ჯამში ამ კონკრეტულ წიგნს 5 ვარსკვლავი - ალალიატრილოგიას - 4.
ძალიან მაგარი სამყარო შექმნა, ყველასგან და ყველაფრისგან განსხვავებული, ჰაი ფენტეზის ჩარჩოებს გაქცეული, თვითმყოფადი და საინტერესო
This is a series of books that plunges you straight in at the deep end.
During the first few chapters of book one, I felt almost like I had missed reading an introduction or a prologue somewhere....
but with the help of a map and the glossary of characters at the end of the book, everything soon started to slot into place.
However, this is not a simple tale – the basic concept is unusual, woven into a story which includes sorcerers, shape-shifters, spirit-wraiths and immortals.My most lasting impression is of the author’s prose, which is so poetic I found myself reading paragraphs over again just to savour the beauty of her descriptive passages – one of my favourite lines:“The clouds, softly shaped by the wind, rested on the silence.”
A magical series, one of the best fantasy series that I have read. This third volume is a great read. I have re-read these three books many times and I think they hold up remarkably well. This concluding volume is especially good end because it answers all of the riddles.Timeless fantasy from a master
Patricia McKillip is pretty nearly as good as Rosemary Sutcliff in wringing my heart. This was a fantastic conclusion to her Riddle-Master trilogy, cutting deeply, bitter-sweet, full of beautiful prose and a powerful plot. My library would be sorely lacking without this trilogy.
i don't know why but for some reason i got into parts 1 and 2 more than this final part of the trilogy. can't put my finger on it ... too much? too complex? just not the right time / mood? beautifully written as always, of course, and the world created by mckillip is a marvel.
I enjoyed this series.
For every book in the series, the descriptions on the back cover combine serious inaccuracies with some spoiler-y content, so I would recommend just ignoring them.I'm not good at this kind of description, but I'll give it a try.
There was something about the writing that was both evocative and obscure.
Perhaps that was the purpose, but I think the book could have been even better if the writing was a bit more pellucid.I think any fan of fantasy fiction would enjoy this, though I don't think I would recommend it as a first foray into fantasy.
This review is for the trilogy, which I just finished!As I read the books I kept wondering why the plot (prose? storytelling?) was so opaque. It was done beautifully so, but I definitely had a hard time tracking what was going on. So the book became an exercise in wondering what the purpose of the opacity was. It was very enjoyable, though. I thought that it would be a fairly standard young male hero goes on a quest story, but book two obviously upended that notion, which I appreciated. I wished that Raederle and Lyra had kissed.
The conclusion of the Riddle-Master series finds Morgon and Raederle struggling to find the mysterious High One and the reason for the war that has spread across the realm.
The main riddles of the book, if not the series, are who is the High One, who are the Earth Masters, and what does one have to do with the other?
The motivations behind the final reveal and what all the characters are fighting about are basically left to the idea that power corrupts.
Florid prose does not a series make.The Riddle-Master Trilogy had many good ideas and characters – even though their fullness didn’t quite pan out.
Like, it's one of those where shit can just happen unpredictably (to the reader anyway)...I guess more of the classics were like that, but I'm spoiled on Jordan, Sanderson and even Butcher and their fairly ordered magic systems that work enhance the experience instead of just deux-ex-fucking all the time.
The next book is the story of Raederlie, Morgon's love who in Heir of Sea and Fire goes in search of him and finds out much about her own identity and powers.Now in Harpist of the Wind they're together trying to find out what has happened to the "High One" the "sustainer of the land-law of the realm" that ties the rulers to an awareness of their lands.
And some have told me that McKillip's best book isn't this trilogy but The Forgotten Beasts of Eld. I'd certainly be interested in trying that someday after reading these.
At times the narrative dances through your brain from concept to concept as the main character uses their considerable magic power to understand nature.
It really makes for some fine reading all by itself.Unfortunately, the characters just don't seem to make a lot of internal sense most of the time.
An army of shapeshifters ought to inspire a lot more hysteria or sense of futility than they do.
WHUT?Too much buildup and not enough payoff.The woman who was the main character in the second book pretty much just follows around her man like a satellite character the whole book, waiting for him to stop putzing around and get on with it.
It's a perfectly functional epic fantasy story, with a satisfying arc for the main character and an intriguing world.
This book escalates the previous two books' themes and story threads to a logical conclusion, which feels satisfying even though the road to it really isn't.
This is more of a middle-of-the-road 2.5/5, but I'll give it three stars just because in the end, it was a light enough read and I didn't want to just abandon the book altogether as with Zelazny.
One of my dearest friends suggested this trilogy, saying that it was fabulous and worth my time.
As I read this trilogy I hard a terrible time trying to figure out the point, I kept getting the feeling through out the entire book that McKillip had not planned ahead.
Plot twists come out of nowhere and make very little sense, explained away by saying they are "new riddles." I'm sorry to those of you who love this book and want to defend it, but McKillip's Riddle-Master trilogy just wasn't up to par for me.
I read this whole trilogy over a few months, with some other books in between to clear my palate.
For years I've been reading bits of early fantasy from the likes of Robert E.
Howard and Fritz Leiber but avoiding anything more modern than Tolkien except for Harry Potter and more magic-realist/literary stuff.
I have a friend's copy of Game of Thrones that has been gathering dust, unread, for years.But the Riddle-Master trilogy is awesome.
A lot of the series follows a frustrating dream logic, and I don't think every reader is likely to enjoy that, but I found the whole thing refreshing and unique.
I first read these books back in the 1970s and they, together with (inevitably) the Lord of the Rings, are largely responsible for my starting to read fantasy.
It is now many years since I read these books as they are in storage in NZ while I work in Africa, so I was delighted to find them available as e-books and then even more delighted to find that they still hold the same magic as they did all those years ago (which is not always true of all books that you enjoy as a teenager and then re-read.
About 3/4 of the way through this book, I had to go looking to see if I was wrong about it being a trilogy.
Despite this being the longest book in the trilogy (I think), it felt very rushed, particularly towards the end.
On the other hand, if that meant I got to stop reading about Morgon's whining, that really was going to be okay.
So - all things being equal, I preferred this as the end of the series so I didn't feel like I was abandoning a story midway through.Raederle was a far more interesting character, particularly once she got over her whiny "No no, I can't use that power because maybe you wouldn't love me" snit.
Normally I love anything McKillip writes, but this one left me cold, particularly as the finish o a trilogy.
The prose and the lush descriptions were of typical high caliber, but the finish was not what I was looking for.
He was forced into everything, and solved it by natural talent, not intelligence or courage.
The bad guy turning out to be the High one in hiding made sense.
His motivations made sense, then he died for the hero and gave him his power, and all the hero had to do was pick it up and wave it and poof, problem solved.
Esta última parte me pareció muy confusa; sí, obviamente al ser el final del "cuento" pues se atan algunos cabos pero otros quedaron totalmente sueltos. El final me pareció rebuscado y de alguna manera no me pareció «digno» ni de la propia historia, ni de la vida de sus personajes. No sé, me dejó con la sensación de que pudo haber terminado de una manera mucho más amable con sus protagonistas. En cuanto a la forma del texto, creo que se perdió demasiado tiempo en persecuciones estériles y en pe
Esta última parte me pareció muy confusa; sí, obviamente al ser el final del "cuento" pues se atan algunos cabos pero otros quedaron totalmente sueltos.
El final me pareció rebuscado y de alguna manera no me pareció «digno» ni de la propia historia, ni de la vida de sus personajes.
No sé, me dejó con la sensación de que pudo haber terminado de una manera mucho más amable con sus protagonistas.
En fin, no es del todo mala la serie, pero tampoco es como para volverla a leer alguna vez...
