https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159760.Reviving_Ophelia
My mom gave me this book when I was like 12 or 13...
Thinking I knew what was best for me, as girls do at that age, I continued to resist my mother's consistent pushing me to read this book.
She eventually gave up, an I found the book something like 10 years later and figured why not, I am already an adult, lets see how off I was in growing up.
I feel like if I just listened to my mother at 13 I could have avoided A LOT of the most annoying parts of growing up.
The fact that a bunch of her patients manifested particular characteristics doesn't lead to the ability to generalize about adolescent trends in general, as Pipher does here.
On the contrary, it's just as reasonable to believe that her patients, many of whom presumably came to her through referrals from other patients, were a self-selecting group, each of whom referred people to Pipher because she had proven talented in dealing with particular adolescent issues.
But when you're trying to make broad pronouncements about social trends, as Pipher is, anecdotes about your group of patients won't cut it.
The most important thing about this book, that I will never forget, is how well it illustrates the shift from a bubbly little girl to a depressed/angry teen and how the world just does everything it can to rob a little girl of her self esteem.
That's not a blaming statement, but just an observation, that girls today are taking an emotional beating at almost every turn, and this book is a call to action.
If you have a daughter, please read this so that maybe she will have a better time of it through your preparedness.
It's definitely more of a statement about me than it is about the book, which I don't really remember anyway.I read this in the mid-nineties when it came out, and I remember feeling, as a teenage girl, annoyed and offended.
I felt at the time that it was making too much of girls' helplessness and sort of encouraging us to feel sorry for ourselves and to wallow in a sense of victimization, blaming our parents and "the media" for everything.
I mean, obviously girls shouldn't be cutting themselves or trying to commite suicide, but adolescents feeling bad a lot of the time seems normal to me.
On average, boys do worse in school that girls do today, especially when you look at outcomes like high school graduation, college enrollment, and college graduation.Although I think Pipher's work is important for the attention it has given to those girls who are falling through the cracks, I think we have already restructured our academic system in favor of femininity, and we do not need to delude ourselves into thinking that we need to go further in the direction of alienating masculinity in academics, in order to reach the girls who we're losing.
We're losing more boys than girls, and in both cases, individual help is needed, not restructuring the entire system to favor one gender over another.
In fact, I'm aware that girls from my background can also struggle with serious issues like the ones Pipher describes but I meet a lot more girls who don't.In a similarly monolithic statement, Mary says on page 150: “If we picture depression on a continuum, at one extreme would be severe depression with some biochemical basis and disturbed family functioning.
She’s also a happy person who doesn’t appear to feel particularly deprived or disappointed that she never became a fast-track career woman; she enjoys many satisfying memories of family and positive experiences.I think feminism gave us many things, and like anything else, it’s not all-bad or all-good.
I understand parents wanting to protect their kids from these kinds of things but I hope any parent does not live by this book.
I don’t know if it was just me but the way Mary worded some things, it came off as she blamed men for this problem.
Maybe I just don’t get this whole peer pressure and media thing bc growing up, I was too hard headed to be fooled by any of that.
And as a parent, you don’t need a book like this to tell you that you should teach your child that.
me:single handedly tries to fight the mass media while protecting every young girl in america
There were some good things I took away from this book.
Oddly enough the most important things I learned is to keep my daughters room filled with journals and writing tools.
The other is to keep her busy in things that make her strong in, body, mind, and spirit.Another thing I walked away with is that there are strengths and weaknesses in every form of parenting.
Man, if I can be half the parents they were....but I digress...I think it is a very good read for parents with daughters.
After reading it I came away with a sincere worry about my daughter loosing her power.
One of my favorite points she made is that our society spends tons of time and money educating women on self-defense, but wouldn't it make much more sense to educate young men on how to be respectful and non-violent towards women?
Sometimes I think she blames all the world's problems on men.2) She uses case studies to make her points.
The women who completely abandon the traditional roles, however, are her strong examples of women who have overcome our poisonous society and saved their "selves." I think she is pretty biased in her writing on these points.Those things aside, I enjoyed this book and think it had some pretty good/valid points.
I remember approaching the book like an army general who has gotten his hands on the enemy's battle plans, only interested in it as far as it could reveal to me what plan the adults were hatching this time so I could fortify my defenses and plan a counterstrike.
The book also appealed to me because there was a thin girl of about my age on the cover who, I assumed, wanted to commit suicide like Ophelia in a pool full of flowers.
Instead, all I remember thinking was that Pipher, like many adults, seemed disproportionately concerned by body-piercings.
So little girls who had no problem playing in the mud, or climbing trees, or whatever--become more self-conscious about their appearance and will start to wear make-up, "sexy" clothes(i know that sounds gross in this context but), and alter their daily activities so that they become someone a boy would notice more.
The key here is to keep young girls occupied with other activities like sports and music so that you delay that window and the girl has time to build her self-esteem/identity before she becomes interested in boys.
Girls who have their own interest are less likely to alter their life to conform to something a teenage boy may be interested in.
Makes a valid point or two but I remember being insulted by this as an adolescent girl. Specifically at the point when Pipher holds up a daddy-knows-best fundie family as raising a totally well-adjusted teenager. I'd rather be a maladjusted junkie slut than live in the midwest with my nice, cool, cryptofascist hard-on for jeezy parents, thanks. This should be on the "feminism, question mark" shelf.
Pipher writes about her work with these girls and what she learned in her attempts to help them find their way back to emotional health and well being.I liked this book so much because it wasn't just fear mongering and society condemning like so many parenting books and articles.
I want to parent from a place of hope and love for my girls and the beautiful parts of the world we live in.
Pipher talks about the fact that the best kind of homes for teenage girls are those that offer affection and structure where parents set firm guidelines and communicate high hopes.
This book was published the year after I graduated high school and it would have been helpful to read it at that time.
Oh, how many ways our culture has failed the humans and other beings who live on Mother Earth together!
This book addresses one of the ways in which our culture has failed: our misogyny.
This is wounding to every female who is raised in this culture.
I hope my 13 year old daughter will read this book.
I hope I can help her to navigate growing up with her unique and powerful self intact.
It took me months to read this because it's so dense and so hard to read about all the ways a young girl can totally go off the rails--girls who are whip-smart, athletic, funny, loving and fearless at the age of ten can turn a corner and become withdrawn, silenced by many forces and self-destruct.
How on earth can girls sort through this when they are suddenly young women and thus objectified and silenced and belittled by the attitudes of media and society, by the habits and patterns of their families of origin?
I have to explain to my own daughters that awful things happen to girls and women--increasingly so.
This book is targeted at parents of girls in the 90's.
When Pipher wrote this book, things like "myspace" and "facebook" weren't even in existence.
As a mother of a soon to be teenaged stepson...I don't agree with this view!All in all though, this book does drive home the amount of influence the culture at hand can have upon a child.
Pipher deals with the cultural impact on girls' psyches in the main, but even parents of boys should take note of the negative impact that their son's can experience as well.
She deals extensively with body image and how young girls, without the maturity or support to know what to do, turn to bulimia (binge / purge eating), anorexia (extreme weight loss through dieting and/ or excessive physical activity), drugs, or alcohol for solutions.Interestingly enough, some of the solutions the author has to help young girls through their growing up years include:1) Parents, DON'T DIVORCE, stay married if you can because an intact family is better for children of all ages.
Happy as a young girl, Ophelia loses herself in adolescence and lives only for the approval of Hamlet and her father.
Author Mary Pipher wrote this book hoping to help parents prevent Ophelia-like experiences with their own daughters.Pipher describes how most girls begin life happy and independent, knowing themselves and their own strengths and wishes.
Furthermore, they are discouraged by peers from expressing sadness at the loss of family relationships -- even to say they are sad is to admit weakness and dependency.Pipher is a counselor who shared many of her experiences in working with girls in this stage.
The book is equal parts fascinating and eye opening, and, in this reviewer’s opinion, required reading for every woman (especially mothers of young girls).
It can lean toward the dry and informational when discussing population samples and psychological terms, but each chapter includes multiple case studies of girls from ages 13 to 23, which I find to be the most traditionally “entertaining” aspect of the book.
One aspect of her writing that I thoroughly enjoy is her use of allusions to classical literature and popular culture that her adult readers will likely recognize, even if they are not intimately familiar with the text.
I related to the author's admitted naivety until college (for me it was late high school), and recognized many of the problems the girls faced in the book as problems still rampant today.
Hopefully, having these conversations at an early age, and frequently going forward, will help ease the painful transition through adolesence for my daughter and I, and protect her from some of the bigger problems many girls now face due to lack of education and a constant feeling of misunderstanding.
Is there NO hope for our girls?
I found this book to be very negative about the future of girls trying to grow up in this world.
Although the book is outdated I did not find a whole lot that related to the average American girl.
The author generalizes about girls as a whole based upon her patients that are in therapy.
I found the book very repetitive and stated the problem over and over and offered no advice on to how to help girls in the turmoil of adolescents.
I read this book as part of long-term preparations for my daughter's adolescence.
I found the book very accessible: the author includes many case studies to illustrate her points, and these are backed up with her more theoretical ideas about how everyone can escape mostly unscathed from adolescence.
It would be great if there were a newer edition of the book: it is more than twenty years old now, and things have definitely changed.
I will be looking for more recent materials to support the initial learnings from Pipher's book.
One of the most powerful books for our young girls to read and then read again.
dang. society is messed up, yo.
This book deals with the lives of young girls and their struggle with eating disorders. I read this when this was an issue in my own family, and I found it to be a great resource.
Maybe I'm missing something, but I felt like the book was really balanced in terms of how it approached girls here.Lots of the stories are interesting, just in terms of the lives some people lead, and Pipher's explanation of her treatment style, while not in-depth (the book as a whole is short on depth, really) seem plausible and even the kind of thing you might be able to suggest without a clinical background.
Twenty years ago this book was talked about a lot amongst our high school's faculty, parents, and (female) students.
(Well, at least the faculty/parents MADE us talk about it.) But, it turns out I never actually read Reviving Ophelia back then, and I recently picked it up for $1 at a used book sale thinking that--since I now have a daughter-- it might be worth reading for real.
Dr. Pipher must be pretty chagrined that little has changed in 20 years: girls are still absorbing a barrage of conflicting messages; parents who care too little or too much are no good; violence against women is still a major issue, etc, etc.
This book, written by a female phsychologist in hte 90's, has some really great insight and analysis on what adolescent girls are faced with in our culture, reaching out to them, understanding them, loving them, parenting them, and about a hundred case studies of too much, too little, just right, horror stories, good adjustment stories, etc.
The whole premise of her book has to deal with how our modern culture pressures girls who are fun-loving and confident 10 and 11-year-olds to change when they become adolescents, splitting into two selves: one true and authentic self, one fake and false self.
Truth be told, I didn't actually finish the book because it was just beating me down.
It was a lot of case studies.
Adolescent girls are suffering, families are disintegrating and society (namely middle school through high school years) is brutal on our daughters!
Just a ton of case studies that make you feel like our girls are just doomed to suffer, but if they're lucky enough to have a strong family hopefully they will overcome their suffering by adulthood.
My recommendation: Steven Covey's "7 Habits of a Highly Effective Family." Interestingly enough, Mary Pipher actually wrote a glowing review for Covey's book.
