https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13133.The_Quickie
Ma koliko vam se činilo da je Patersonove knjige lako čitati u originalu i da su zasigurno lake za prevedom on zapravo uopšte nije mačji kašalj kada ga treba prevesti...
I mala nepažnja prevodioca, pogrešno shvaćeno značenje može dovesti do materijalno veoma netačnog prevoda...
Ova knjiga je odlično prevedena ali tekst ove knjige već godinama mi služi kao probni tekst za prevodioce s kojima ranije moj tim nije sarađivao...
I neće verovati šta smo sve dobijali od prevodioca (i to diplomiranih filologa), koji kod nas nisu mogli da prođu ni po znanju engleskog ni po poznavanju maternjeg jezika...
Zato nemojte olako misliti za pojedine pisce da su mačji kašalj za prevod...
First off let me say that I am a James Patterson fan, but despite that fact this book was excellent. It is definitely a suspense thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat. I think what I like the most about it is the way in which the story is told from the begining of the novel. It is as if the introduction is laid before you piece by piece in such a unique format that it draws you in from the very begining. Definitely a great fun fiction book to read.
OK... First off - If I could give LESS than 1 star - I would have! I don't normally add my "Books on Tape" to my Good Reads account. But, I had to "WARN" all my friends. This was absolutely the most ridiculous story I've ever listened to. It was SO FRUSTRATING. The characters were completely unlikeable and made the worst choices. There were SO MANY HOLES in this storyline - And, the worst part of the story is that I couldn't stop listening to it - because I believed it HAD TO GET BETTER... Guess what - It didn't:)
2/19/08 - I got this in the mail today as part of a bookray from the other online bookclub that I'm a member of.
I will be putting the remaining 3 books of The Bridesmaid Chronicles on hold until I read this one!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/21/08 - WOW...this has been one of the best mystery/thriller book that I've read in a long time!
I didn't put the book down much, as I've read this in 3 days!
It was a real page-turner that I just kept being shocked about the turn of events!
Get ready to hold on to the seat of your pants for this read...WOW!!
More recently, I've been downloading books via the Overdrive Media app from my local digital library and since so many of his titles were available, I thought what the heck, I'll give it a try.
Are these co-authors actually ghostwriters and Patterson just puts his name on the cover or are these books are true collaborations.
In general, I thought the book was okay.
That said, I'm sure a lot of people will enjoy the novel's pace, plot twists, and some well written action scenes.
The Quickie is a simple, fast read.If you like James Patterson, you'll probably enjoy this novel.
If I could give -stars, I would.
This is, by far, the most irritating book I've ever read.
The prose reads like the convoluted script for a very bad Lifetime movie, and there's not one likable character in the whole mess.
The main character is a composite sketch of the worst stereotypes of women.
She's a cop, but the worst crime in the world is cheating on her.
Ugh. I only hope that there was a very lucrative deal behind James Patterson's slapping his name on something this horrible.
I hope it was worth the hit on his credibility.
The Quickie is written in very short chapters so it made it a fast read.
I got hooked in the first part of the book but then became a little bored when “covering up” became a little too effortless for the protagonist.
Towards the end of the book a new twist was introduced but was not really developed and left you really struggling to put it all together.
It was as if Patterson came up with another plot at the end of the novel and tried to incorporate it into the existing murder mystery.
For me there were a few inconsistencies, especially with character development, that really ruined the overall plot for me.
The difference between James Patterson, 2007 and the 2018 factory edition is as white-hot to ice-cold. 10 of 10 stars
Spoiler Alert!This book sucked.
That's bullcrap!There's a "neat sheet" (like a picnic blanket) that is used to wrap a murder victim, and it gets blood on it - so we have evidence that the victim was indeed wrapped in the sheet.
Oh well, you see we didn't tell you - but way back when the murderer first bought the neat sheet he and his wife went on a picnic, and had a lil sex on the sheet...
This guy obviously doesn't give a shit about his wife.
This book was twisting & turning just for the sake of twisting and turning.
When a younger officer she works with at the New York Police Department indicates that she is interested, and they have a "quickie." Immediately afterward, Lauren steps out of the room and returns only to see Scott, the officer, murdered by what appears to be her husband Paul.
The question is where this whole thing will lead since the reader has already seen how quick she is to make assumptions.I have to say this is the first book by Patterson that I hated.
I will say the writing was up to Patterson's usual standards, and the story moves along at the usual quick pace.
She also said she loved Patterson books and could not stop reading them once she started.
I, of course, can never let a book be thrown away, no matter how bad.
A dead cop's body is removed from a fountain and a red headed cop starts singing Danny Boy - in the rain, while the other cops, even the 'hard' ones, cry freely or barely hold back tears.
But enough of this snark (I feel so dirty) - it's too easy to make fun and I already took too much of a sick pleasure watching his sentences stagger around the page like a punch-drunk boxer (I can't stop!).
This book is definitely one of those that delivers an ending you never saw coming.
I enjoyed how the story unfolds layer upon layer of bad luck with every decision or action Lauren makes.
Just when you think you have figured it out, off comes another layer and once again you are blindsided by the result.I enjoyed the complexity of the characters.
This story may not be for everyone as Lauren does hold the blame for the mess she finds herself in, but many readers should enjoy the creative and interesting way she resolves it.
I've loved almost every book I've ever read by James Patterson, and this book was no exception.
Whilst I don't think it was as great as his Cross books, this was yet another book that I couldn't put down.I liked the fact that the protagonist was directly involved with the murder, and trying to cover it up - most thrillers are based on someone trying to find the murderer.I love that Patterson's books have really small chapters - this makes me want to read 'just one more' all the time.
3.75A “quickie” fast read that I enjoyed back in 2007 but never reviewed.
I remember I liked it a great deal.
Lauren Stillwell is a NYC cop who thinks her husband is having an affair and may have killed his lover.
When the body shows up she’s assigned the case but is now wondering if in fact her husband did it and if he did, if she can turn him in.
A fast paced read with twists I didn’t see coming.
I like Patterson’s short chapters making you want to read just one more before shutting out the light.
:: 5 Thrilling Stars :: My first thought after reading this book was “how have I never read a novel by James Patterson before?” WOW.
I had a very hard time putting it down and plan to read many more books by James Patterson in the future.
The story is about a woman named Lauren who learns a horrifying secret about her husband.
But Lauren loves him and will do anything to keep him out of jail so she hides his secrets from everyone.
Save her husband from jail or go down with him.This book is action-packed and thrilling.
I bought this book at Walmart after reading several free chapters from James Patterson on his web site.
I have to tell you that this is my honest opinion of the book.
The Quickie to me is truly awesome and will keep you on the edge of your chair/seat.
It involves a young NY cop who sees her husband coming out of a hotel with another women and immanently believes that he having an affair.
Then when someone is murder it looks like her husband had done it.
Now if I continue to tell you any more about the "QUICKIE"you won't go get the book.


Lauren works in the homicide division in New York. She thought she was happily married until she saw her husband going into a hotel with another women. So she makes a decision that she will regret. Thus begins the twisted jaunt through what her life has become. There are more twits and turns in this story than I expected and as usual the journey is worth it. James Patterson had another hit with this story.I love reading his books they are usually quick reads and great page turners. Characters are good and the plot was definitely a good one.
Great book. This book had me on the edge of my feet.
Wow what an amazing read, i couldn't put this down and finished it in one go.When Lauren Stillwell t
Am I the only one who thinks Patterson falls ridiculously flat when he tries to write from a woman’s point of view?
Her narration is flighty and shallow and exaggerated.
She sleeps with a man once, this so-called quickie, but in narration she treats it like some long-established affair.
And the writing here is ridiculously bad, something I would expect from a first-time author, not someone with 50ish books under his belt.
Instead we have a book full of shallow, selfish, unlikable characters and Patterson’s now-trademark white space.
If you have ever been a Patterson fan, do yourself a favor and skip this one.
I'm finding that the stand alone books don't have nearly the impact that the series books--WMC and Alex Cross--have.
I would have liked to have found out more about the new life, and that storyline that is presented at the end of the book.It was definitely interesting to see a different side of a murder mystery novel where the police officer is actually trying to prevent a murder from being solved, rather than solving the mystery.
It was interesting to read about the "dirty cops".Overall, it was a good quick read, but not nearly as good as the WMC series.
This was one of my least favorite book by James Patterson.
I felt as though he hurried through this book while writing it.
Instead of developing the plot, he just added another crisis.
Instead of creating suspense and action, it felt choppy and exhausting.
The heroine in this book annoyed me too.
She was constantly in a state of panic and Patterson's use of italics got old.
I was not impressed with the main character's thought patterns as she worked her way through each crisis.
I finished this book only because I felt I had to, not because I wanted to.
James Patterson and I have an iffy relationship. Sometimes I love him, sometimes not so much, and sometimes the book was just fine. And this book was fine. I had to stop reading Alex Cross, Michael Bennett and the Woman’s Murder Club Bc only so many I can take. But once and awhile, I will pick up a random book from him. This one was better than others. The book constantly had twists. The pace was fast. The characters didn’t have depth, but that was not needed here. Most Patterson fans would probably enjoy this one!
The first 100 pages were amazing but then it slowed down a bit after the first plot twist.
I went into this book blindly so I was surprised that I liked the story.
Loved the short chapters which made the book read very quickly.
Lauren the main character finds out her husband is cheating in the very beginning and then it goes on from there.
It maybe has one page of sex but the rest is just suspense and a roller coaster of a ride.
Glad I picked it up since it got me back into reading.
RTC
https://no-conforto-dos-livros.webnod...
Like a quickie or rather a one-night stand.The same evening Lauren pretends she has missed her plane and invites a handsome bike-riding colleague from other department, Scott Thayer, to have a late dinner with her.
Will the truth set her free in any sense?What I liked:Although at first glance this book might seem just another novel about cops and thugs I admit it was very well-executed.
The ending was satisfying although bitter-sweet and the amount of things Lauren discovered during her investigation I found really mind boggling.
Not bad.What I didn’t like:Well, after reading such a book you will really think twice before trusting any man.
Having said that I will still read the stuff he co-writes but I think those books will be best borrowed from the library, that way I can enjoy them and not feel like I wasted any money, when people pay for a bad book they seem to hate it even more.Lauren Stillwell feels that something isn't right in her marriage, her hot life with her husband Paul is slowly dwindling away, their great friendship and rocking bedroom life has shriveled to a barely tolerable acceptance and she is saddened until she thinks she's being betrayed.
