https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76633.The_Crime_at_Black_Dudley
This is the first Campion novel, though in this book he is just a colorful supporting character.
After reading the book, her American publishers suggested she focus on Campion with future novels.
Campion is a natural focus for the gang for retrieving their package.
One of the gang members is referred to as The Jew. It isn’t until almost the end of the novel that Margery Allingham reveals his name as Gideon.
The book was published in 1929, but still the use of the term THE JEW bothered me.
First published in 1929, The Crime at Black Dudley is set in a gloomy manor where a social weekend goes awry when a person is murdered.
Allingham introduces her leading detective, Albert Campion, the quirky yet affable gentleman who would later be featured in another twenty mystery novels.
While the opening pages are atmospheric and the setting holds promise, the characters lack depth and nuance, and the narrative suffers from the same irritating flaws as Murder on the Orient Express: Albert Campion leaps to a bizarre conclusion, and he withholds information that makes it impossible for readers to solve the murder.
Like Ngaio Marsh’s Roderick Alleyn, Gladys Mitchell’s Mrs. Bradley, or Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Silver — all of whom were quite popular in their day but have, sadly, fallen into obscurity — Campion has been cheated of the lasting fame that is his due.But perhaps Bloomsbury Reader’s new edition of Campion’s first case, The Crime at Black Dudley, first published in 1929, can remedy the situation.Like television’s Colombo or Lord Peter Wimsey, the fair-haired, bespectacled Albert Campion at first glance appears to be a bit of fool.
In a way, that is because this is not a traditional mystery; it has a story set in a traditional country weekend, but then descends into something of a romp concerning criminal gangs, secret passages and only has Albert Campion as a minor character.Indeed, much of the action is told from the point of view of Dr George Abbershaw, one of the guests of a weekend party at the house of Colonel Gordon Coombe, whose nephew, Wyatt Petrie, organises groups of young people to visit and amuse his uncle.
The Crime at Black Dudley is the first in Margery Allingham’s Albert Campion series, but it is not exactly a novel featuring Albert Campion but instead a novel in which a minor character called Albert Campion appears and takes over the book.I can see why Allingham refused to halt Campion in his coup, for he is an interesting character (certainly more interesting than the Scotland Yard pathologist George Abbershaw, whom Allingham chose for her hero).
Still, the individual scenes were either suspenseful or amusing, and I can see how Campion would make an entertaining hero.Yes, I believe I may read another Campion novel someday.
I have a very soft spot for The Crime at Black Dudley because it is the first appearance of Margery Allingham's beloved detective, silly ass Albert Campion.
Campion isn't actually the detective in this book, but for a time appears to be a suspect!
I have read somewhere that Allingham originally fancied him as her series detective, which would have made him one of the first pathologist heroes.
I don't think this book is as good as the rest of the series, and the plot doesn't really hang together, but it's still an enjoyable read, largely because of all the fun Allingham has with this young and silly version of her hero.
WHOA! I had a long review for this, with a discussion thread, and now they are simply gone!And no, I definitely wasn't talking about the author in the review, so it wouldn't have been deleted for that reason.
One short example: "You can call it absurd with your modern platonic-suitability complexes," he said, "but I fell in love with a woman as nine-tenths of men have done since the race began and will continue to do until all resemblance of the original animal is civilized out of us and the race ends--with her face, and with her carriage, and with her body." I mean, come on.
The real core of my dislike for this book is Albert Campion, who mimics my beloved Lord Peter Wimsey in many ways but inevitably falls short.
2.5 STARS This one just isn't simple to rate. This rating reflects how much I personally liked it. But then consider this was first published by a woman (in her 20's) in 1929. Also consider that this is definitely has slang from England at that time (thank goodness for my Kindle reader - I have only to highlight the word to see the slang definition) I have not read any Agatha Christie, but I have seen a few movie adaptations of her books. I would say this book definitely has that feel. Several
Also consider that this is definitely has slang from England at that time (thank goodness for my Kindle reader - I have only to highlight the word to see the slang definition) I have not read any Agatha Christie, but I have seen a few movie adaptations of her books.
It was not a huge focus in the book.I can't say that the ending was very satisfying to me, but I think the author was trying to make social point.Though this was not for me, I think there are many of you who appreciate old-time Agatha Christie type mysteries.
The datedness of the story lies not in the language or the gender roles nor the stereotypical treatment of anyone who wasn’t a member of the English upper class but rather in the author’s need to include, as was true in so many of the mystery books of that time, a massive international criminal gang.
Campion, as he is described in this story, is very much the upper-class dilettante that English authors of the 1920s and 1930s appear to find fascinating for the very reasons that many modern readers find them annoying.
Albert Campion gatecrashes a party at Black Dudley Manor in which Colonel Coombe dies in suspicious circumstances.
It turns out the Colonel was supposed to give a package to Benjamin Dawlish and it is now lost.
Dawlish and his criminal gang now hold the guests captive.
However, it the quirky and mercurial Albert Campion who is instrumental in getting to the bottom of the case.
I am glad that this novel was available currently as a Bloomsbury Reader via netgalley as it is a great example of the golden age of detective fiction.
Many thanks to Bloomsbury for a copy of the book via netgalley.
This book is supposedly the debut novel of Margery Allingham's detective Albert Campion.
His random, inane actions were quirky and potentially endearing but his lack of a real role left him only as an interesting side thought.
In chapter 16, the story makes a sharp turn with another random and potentially interesting character who provides some new clues.
I thought the story was about to get interesting!
I guessed the murderer almost from the start but Abbershaw's route to the discovery was random and confusing.
If I stumbled upon it, I would read something else starring Albert Campion because some allowance has to be made for a first novel.
But it soon becomes obvious to George that there's something fishy going on (!) – and when something goes missing, suddenly the young people find themselves the prisoners of the Colonel's friends...This is apparently the book in which Allingham's regular 'tec, Albert Campion, makes his first appearance, although in this one, George is the main focus and Campion is a secondary character.
In fact, Campion more or less disappears towards the end and plays no part in the final denouement – presumably at that point Allingham didn't see him as her central character.I listened to the audiobook version, and I have to say I felt David Thorpe's narration was great!
A weekend house party, a ritual involving an ancient dagger, a murder, stolen documents, house guests held hostage. Sounds like the perfect weekend. This is the first of Margery Allingham's novels to feature her amateur detective Albert Campion, but strangely he is only in a supporting role here. I found this book entertaining, especially when Campion was on the scene but I expect this series gets better as it goes along.
A couple of Coombe's business associates are also there, Benjamin Dawlish and Jesse Gideon, plus Coombe's medical attendant, Dr White Whitby.Among Wyatt's guests are pathologist and occasional Scotland Yard consultant George Abbershaw (who'll be our detective), the woman George loves, Margaret "Meggie" Oliphant, and a halfwit whom no one seems to know called Albert Campion.As anyone who reads classic detective fiction is aware, weekend parties at country houses almost invariably lead to murders.
This is a mystery on the lines of Christie's Tommy and Tuppence stories - part thriller, part adventure, part espionage, which its overblown international criminal organisations, guns, and and secret passages.
The guise of the fool allows him a great deal of freedom to carry out his tasks.I suspect that this book was intended to be a stand-alone, with Campion part of the drama but not an on-going main detective character.
Later books are rather more focused on Campion-the-detective (and fortunately eventually move away from the international criminal organisations) and he is definitely a character that makes you want to read on.
Loved this fast paced Golden Age mystery.We are introduced to the character Albert Campion.A suspicious death, a family heirloom, all is not what it seems at Black Dudley.Had me guessing right up to the end.The first in a series and will be looking out for more.Thank you to Sarah for sending it to me.I've been engrossed the past few days, beautifully written and so of its time!
After a bit of a wobbly start, I found that Allingham's writing was actually rather suited to me. I loved Campion and think he's going to become one of my favourite characters in classic crime, and the story of a country house dinner murder is always right up my street. Maybe not the best book I've ever read but I'm going to try another of her works shortly and see what it's like...
I have read several and can appreciate that they are well written but they just don't grab me and I always find it something of a chore to finish them.In this book Albert is part of a very strange house party at a house called Black Dudley in the Suffolk countryside.
If the Campion series are the sort of books you enjoy then don't let me put you off but if you like your crime novels conventional then you need to look at reading authors such as Agatha Christie, Ngaio Marsh or Dorothy L Sayers.
2 1/2 starsEven though this was the first book in the Albert Campion series, he only played a very minor role.
His few moments of lucidity were certainly not enough to save the character for me.
Had he been the primary character, I am not sure that I would have finished reading the book.
Two of the characters in this book were named Wyatt Petrie and Martin Watt.
They were usually referred to as Wyatt and Watt.
There were enough characters in this book to keep straight - I did not need this extra impediment.
THE CRIME AT BLACK DUDLEY (aka The Black Dudley Murder) (Amateur Sleuth, Albert Campion, England, 1920s) – GoodAllingham, Margery – 1st in series (EBMRG Selection)Penguin Books, 1929, US PaperbackFirst Sentence: The view from the narrow window was dreary and inexpressibly lonely.What is supposed to be an entertaining weekend at a large country home in Suffolk, becomes the site of murder, kidnapping and suspense.
Dr. George Abbershaw is forced to sign a death certificate, and foolish Albert Campion is not what he seems.I had forgotten how silly and over-plotted this first book is of the Campion series and that Campion appears as a secondary character.
I read this one for Country House Murder, and it is a good example of that particular type of mystery.
The Crime at the Black Dudley is designated as the first of the Albert Campion mysteries, but as others have noted, his appearance is pretty minimal.
I am going to reserve judgment on Allingham and her detective, since I don't think that this book is a particularly good example of her work.
Martin Edwards mentioned Traitor's Purse & The Case of the Late Pig in The Story of Classic Crime in 100 Books, and I've heard good things about The Tiger In The Smoke, so I'm thinking of trying one of those the next time I give Campion a try.
Not really what most readers would expect from a Golden Age mystery.
There is a murder to be solved, but the mystery 'top and tails' a thriller, where a group of young people find themselves trapped in an old house with a gang of sinister individuals.
Most of the narrative hinges on their attempts to escape or to uncover what these criminals are planning.Having said that, this is still an enjoyable read and the mystery element is nicely done.
He is slightly overshadowed in this book by the antics of the house party guests, but it sets the scene for later books.
Hardly a literary masterpiece ---just an entertaining bit of fluff. The story was pretty unbelievable and filled with cliched characters, but still fun as a change from reading about fascism. racism, and Trumpism.
This book kind of tries to be two things at once—first, suspenseful escapades in an Old Dark Mansion with a Sinister Master Criminal in pursuit; and secondly, a traditional murder-mystery with a small circle of suspects which just happens to occur at the same time.
The escapades-in-the-mansion part is very entertainingly done, but I think the book's weakness is that it doesn't give nearly enough attention to the murder mystery itself, which had a terrific initial set-up that I would have loved to see explored further.
Say, for instance, if Allingham had explored further the possible motives of the characters and played up the "Was it one of us?" idea.
Campion, who might be expected to be the main character, given that the series is named for him, appears only sporadically, but this is rather a blessing since Allingham, failing to make him charmingly enigmatic, which I suspect was her aim, went so far overboard with his idiotic banter that he is repellantly irritating.
Really, the only aspect of the book which I enjoyed was that, after reading in Amazon's description that “Allingham is J.K. Rowling's favourite Golden Age author,” I was amused to note that the arch villain in this is named Dawlish, as is one of the baddies in the Harry Potter series (though, in his defense, Rowling's Dawlish may have been a victim of the Confundus curse, unlike Allingham's whole-heartedly wicked character).
The book begins as a classic isolated country manor murder mystery.
The guests are trapped with no way to leave, a murder has occurred and a gangster and his minions are among the guests.
The guests do manage to flee and the mystery is resolved after the guests have returned to London.This was absolutely charming, witty and full of engaging characters, a strong sense of place, and just the right element of danger.
Albert Campion appears part con man, part aristocrat, part fool and part sleuth.
You definitely get the sense that what you see is NOT what you get with Albert Campion.
Allingham's books topped her list and as soon as I started reading them I was an apostle too.The Crime at Black Dudley is not the most readable or enjoyable of the Albert Campion novels, but it is fun to be able to start a series at the beginning and have a proper introduction to the principal character.
Campion is pretty much a secondary character in this book but the reader can take enough of him away from this book to be interested in meeting him again.For readers who enjoy a touch of British high-life and an eccentric problem-solver, there is no one like Albert Campion.

The Crime at Black Dudley is supposed to be a classic of detective fiction. It introduces Allingham’s detective Albert Campion. However, Campion plays no part in the solution of the murder mystery. Rather, he, his facetious banter and daring-do are relegated to a fantastic and ludicrous secondary plot that takes up most of the book and features master criminals who threaten all and sundry. As for the murder, the killer is obvious from the beginning though the actual motive is revealed at the very end and is psychologically absurd.
