https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564621.Deceptions
Re-readI found my old paperback copy and I just had to read this again. I used to read this over and over again in high school and even now, this still remains one of my favorite books ever. I love it! -----January 27, 2014This was one of my most read pocketbooks when I was younger but I must re-read this soon. :)
I read this first when I was teenager and I glad I get hold of copy and reread it was great and well written. Loved this it was emotional read and I was shedding some tears. Recommend highly!
I wish I could say I had a ball with Judith Michael’s first novel DECEPTIONS (1982, Pocket) but...https://sleaze-factor.blogspot.com/20...
Lady Sabrina Longworth / Stephanie & GArth AndersonSabrina & Stephanie are identical twins who decide to change places for a week so Stephanie - the housewife and mother of two from the midwest - can try London high-society social life and independent life of Sabrina. While trading places, something happens to Stephanie and Sabrina is stuck trying not to hurt Stephanie's family and Garth for whom she's fallen.
I read this book when I was a teenager and I remember I really liked it - decided to read it again. Good to know I haven't changed much! Still loved it. About twins who switch identities - one a London socialite and the other a suburban American wife and mother. Complications ensue. It sounds soapy but really well written and insightful into the internal struggles each faces in their new roles. Now, reading the sequel!
I read this many years ago, so my review is just my general impressions. I truly enjoyed this read, and now that I am older, I think I can relate even more to wanting to trade lives for just a while. I can also relate to getting caught up in a situation and not knowing how to extricate oneself from it for fear of hurting someone else. A good book that I wholeheartedly recommend.
I love Judith Michael's books and this is one of the best! The believable characters that pull you into the story and don't let you go until you finish the book. I highly recommend this book for a good weekend book.
Improbable (any plot involving identical twins usually is) but engaging soap opera about a beautiful pair of sisters, their lifestyles & lovers, their interest in antiques, and the gullible friends & spouses taken in by their wacky scheme.
This is my all time favorite novel! #1 and always will be! It is probably the first adult novel I ever reead or darn close to it.
Sa wakas sa wakas nahuman ra jd ko aning libroha!
whew!
sa tinuod simple lang kau ang story dili na kelangan og taas kau na narrative na bore ko sa mga inner monologues ni sabrina.
pero bisan natas.an ko kay na lingaw gihapon ko og basa kay drama kau og lab man gd nako c professor garth hehehe.
wla kau ko naluoy sa gidangat ni stephanie kay igat jud na bayhana mai ra nawagtang sa buhay nila.
pero naglagot ko sa twist in the end tho wla na ko natingala.
malas ka steph i hope u realize u lost more than youve gain.
Due gemelle si scambiano i ruoli: entrambe avranno ciò che desideravano. La mia copertina recita: Sesso, suspense e divertimento. Il primo latita, il secondo c'è e il terzo pure.Curiosità: La principessa Alessandra, nella miniserie tratta dal libro, venne interpretata dalla Lollo nazionale.
καλο ηταν δε λεω καπου απο τη μεση και μετα σαν να με εχασε λιγο και με χαλασε το τελος τους το βρηκα λιγο αχαρο λιγο αστειο ξαφνικα να του ρθει η αναλαμπη και να τα καταλαβει ολα...ε καπου εκει εχασε και τα αστερακια του 3,5 απο μενα
I love the 80s miniseries that is based on this book. Rediscovered it on YouTube and spent a glorious 3+ hours watching it on Christmas Eve. Just reading the book for the first time and loved it. Very, very different and so, as usual better...highly recommended.
A delightful romance.
another oldie but a fantastic read, would read it again.and as a young teenager I was so in love with the characters on the mini series
Had to read for genre study. I am not a romance fan so not surprised I didn’t like it.
Book was in Romanian
The best book everI've read this book every few years and I still consider it one of my favourites. I always love Judith Michael books. What a team of writers they are
Stephanie hidup di USA bersama Garth, suami yang dosen dan ilmuwan, dan dua anaknya, Penny & Cliff.
Sabrina tinggal di Inggris, janda dari seorang keturunan bangsawan, yang membuka usaha jual beli barang antik.Stephanie merasa jenuh dengan kehidupannya yang hanya sebagai ibu rumah tangga, hubungannya yang semakin hambar dengan Garth dan kekesalan akan sikap Garth yang dirasanya kurang punya ambisi padahal Garth ditawarkan pekerjaan dengan gaji yang jauh lebih tinggi, serta pusing dengan sikap Penny & Cliff yang beranjak remaja.Sabrina juga jenuh dengan kehidupan dunia glamour kalangan jetset di London & Eropa.Untuk menghilangkan kejenuhan, Stephanie & Sabrina mengikuti paket liburan ke China.
3.5 starsSabrina and Stephanie Longworth are twins.Sabrina married a wealthy English aristocrat and divorced him.
Stephanie married Garth Anderson, a scientist and university professor.
She stays at home in the suburbs with their two children and envies her sister's jet set lifestyle.
Stephanie's desire for a more exciting life is putting a strain on her marriage.
One day, the sisters agree to play a deception and switch places.
Stephanie got what she wanted, a life among the rich and famous while Sabrina got the home she always wanted.
But as deception goes, it never runs smoothly.
The trouble begins when Stephanie's yacht exploded
Identical twins Sabrina and Stephanie Longworth grew up very close, but are now living very different lives.
Sabrina, once married to a wealthy English aristocrat, lives in London and runs a successful antiques business.
Stephanie married Garth Anderson, a university professor and researcher.
Circumstances delay each of them to return to their own life and the deception gets out of control.I forced myself to read this book after finding it in a box that was in storage for 5 years.
It was published in 1982 and if I would have read it then, I probably would have enjoyed it more.
My first Judith Michael book and I loved it.
I became emotionally invested in the character's lives, especially Sabrina and Garth's.
I loved the details of family life and the intimacies shared within the marriage.
I was willing Sabrina to let her defences down and to let Garth love her and for her to express love for him (to hell with the moral ambiguities!).
I absolutely loved Garth and shared his love, heartbreak and turmoil.
The scene in the hotel room when he confronts Sabrina is truly heartbreaking.A fabulous page-turner of a book with melodrama and unexpected twists.
At the time I was a teen obsessed with the lives of Jessica & Elizabeth Wakefield of Sweet Valley High fame, and the idea of identical twins swapping lives just thrilled me to the core!
This novel then, is the tale of identical twins Sabrina and Stephanie Longworth - one a married housewife & mother, the other a rich & glamorous London socialite - who decide to swap identities & lives just for one week to sort out their own priorities.It sounds easy & harmless fun, but it's a dangerous game they're playing, and when the unimaginable happens, deceptions spiral out of control.
This is SUCH an 80s book, but I loved it; the cringe-worthy fashion, the vintage styling, feisty feminist themes, even the very 80s love-scenes.
I loved this book and it kept me involved the whole way through.
I didn't pay attention to the summary of what the book was about and at first I was startled that it wasn't a historical romance which I had originally thought it was.I quickly became involved with the deception twin sisters, Sabrina and Stephanie, created by switching lives.
To find that there is a sequel to this book well, I will have to find it and I pray it's as good as this one.
For a romance, it was pretty good. I enjoyed reading it; it wasn't boring or eye-rollingly stupid; it was well-written, light and relaxing reading.Sabrina and Stephanie are twin sisters and have been very close all their lives. Stephanie has been married for a dozen years to a scientist in the mid-west. Sabrina has a successful antiques business in London and is divorced from a very wealthy man. Neither sister is entirely happy in her life. They plan a trip together to China and while there they concoct the idea to switch places for a week.Nothing goes as planned.
Old School challenge, 2013I saw the miniseries on which this book is based when it first aired, a few decades ago. To my recollection, there are a number of differences and of course this book delves more into backstory on the identical twins who secretly trade places for a week (of course, an assortment of problems force them to prolong the charade). It is an intriguing story, one that held my attention for a plane ride, but the POV head-hopping (it's constant) rattled me. I might have ratcheted the star rating up if it had been controlled.
Good story about twins, age 32, living on different continents, one married with 2 children and one divorced. Neither one is completely content and on a trip together decide to change places and pretend to be the other for a week. Needless to say, circumstances delay each of them to return to their own life.There was no language in this book until the end and a lot of it.. If the book had started out that way - I wouldn't have read it.
Dua orang wanita kembar yang pada awalnya iseng saling bertukar identitas. Sabrina yang hidup glamor di Inggris bertukar tempat dengan Stephanie kembarannya yang menjalani hidup "membosankan" sebadai ibu rumah tangga di Amerika...Keadaan menjadi ruwet ketika Sabrina jatuh cinta dengan Garth suami Stephanie.. Dan terjadinya sebuah kecelakaan membuat keisengan mereka berakibat fatal...yah, begitulah... Hehehe...
Aw, c'mon. Who wouldn't want to have a twin sister to trade places with? Especially a rich one?I like this better than most romance novels because the protagonists are active women who don't let men dictate their every action. That's always a draw for me.Not great literature, but lots of fun, with beautiful women and handsome men having intercourse with each other. What's not to like? :-)
this book causes the heart to race and race... twins who have lived different lives switching to completely play each others role...know all that the children and the husband liked... be the perfect wife. it was strange to live the others life... and when one of them died..... i also died in the book.. wowowowow. crying for the wrong person.. good stroy
