https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149612.Fear_is_the_Key
This is one of the better MacLeans - a real mystery, non-stop suspense, and a tale of sweet revenge very satisfactorily carried out using the weapon of fear.
If you've never read Alistair Maclean, it will open you up to a whole new genre of thriller -- the post WW2 British yarn. A little more literary and less ribald than its American counterpart, but just as guilty a pleasure. It would be nearly impossible to offer an illustration of FEAR IS THE KEY without dropping a few spoilers, but it's a fine example of Maclean's work.
"Στα νύχια του φόβου", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Ενδέκατο βιβλίο του Άλιστερ Μακλίν που διαβάζω, μου φάνηκε και αυτό εξίσου συναρπαστικό και ψυχαγωγικό με όλα τα προηγούμενα.
Άλλωστε, είναι από τους αγαπημένους μου συγγραφείς στο είδος της περιπέτειας και των ψυχροπολεμικών θρίλερ, οπότε δύσκολα θα με άφηνε παραπονεμένο.
Θα την ψάξω πάντως.Ο πρωταγωνιστής και παράλληλα αφηγητής της ιστορίας μας, ονόματι Τάλμποτ, θα ξεφύγει από το δικαστήριο όπου δικαζόταν για διάφορα εγκλήματα, απαγάγοντας μια κοπέλα για προστασία.
Μετά από διάφορα γεγονότα, ο Τάλμποτ θα πέσει στα χέρια του στρατηγού, αλλά και κάποιων περίεργων και επικίνδυνων ανθρώπων, που φαίνεται ότι ελέγχουν τον στρατηγό.
I've read opinions that early MacLean is better than later.
I think that proves true in this tale from the early '60s, which is comparable in my opinion to The Satan Bug, one of MacLean's pseudonymous novels.
(Originally anyway.) This one is a bit more rollicking than Circus, a later MacLean which I read shortly before this title where espionage and intrigue fill up the early pages while driving the plot toward an action conclusion.
Unfortunately it seems to be a bit hard to come by today unless you want to rent it for $9.99 on one of the streaming services.
I loved this book from the moment I picked it up and until I reached the last page. It creates all the mystery in the beginning so that you are compelled to think about what will happen next when you are not reading the book. MacLean also gives room to his readers to actually get their horses running and think as to what might happen or who is the culprit or who is not, almost like he is with you, reading, discussing, and eventually leading you to the answer. A short read, but a damn good one!
The twist of situation comes when you expect the least and the last scenes are actually pretty good. Lots of mistery.
I remember reading this book more than four decades ago.
I decided to read the book online; it took a whole day.
I read the book today in 2015 - reading it online is painful, but what can a man do?
- and I can feel the pace, the verve, the vitality, the thrill, the suspense, the plot unravelling.
You are gripped; you have to read it till the very end - it's 8.20 pm now, and I began reading this online from 11 am onwards with no time for an afternoon nap!Any day, Alistair Maclean outbeats everyone else!
One of MacLean’s top-flight thrillers.
‘Fear is the Key’ starts in effectively blunt style.
A brutally cynical prologue sets off a propulsive narrative of espionage and revenge, of tense set pieces and the double-bluff twists that MacLean did so well.
It’s one of a string of first person thrillers that he wrote during his golden period - a technique he abandoned completely (and inexplicably) after ‘Bear Island’ - and the style suits this kind of story brilliantly.
Okay, it shows its age a bit and the usual problems with dialogue are present (dialogue was always MacLean’s weak spot), but as an example of a pared-down, tautly plotted action thriller it’s hard to beat.
I took the paperback along with me on a trip to Mexico for reading on the buses and plane.
I was a fan of some of MacLean's novels when I was a teenager and reading this one reminded me why I liked them.
This one had a lot of action and violence in it.
And like other MacLean novels, most of the motives and details behind the caper are kept from the reader until opportune moments.
This one has a millionaire daughter who is kidnapped by the hero, a hop-head sadist, a coldblooded killer, an arrogant general and a couple of guys handy with saps, guns and fists.
This is the classic, action-packed, 'one man takes on a load of bad guys and wins' story, much loved by Hollywood film companies. It is a good one however, with lots of plot twists and challenges for our hero to overcome, and at least he hurts when beaten up and gets tired sometimes.The author has a certain whimsical humour in his writing, which adds an enjoyable counterpart to all the gung-ho stuff.
Actual rating: 3.5.This book was recommended to me by a very good friend, who said it was her favorite MacLean book. Since I really enjoyed Where Eagles Dare, I thought I'd give it a go, and it was quite good. Still like WED better (maybe because it's set in WWII) but Fear is the Key was definitely worth my time. Favorite character? Jablonsky. And now I want to re-read FITK sometime so that I can piece everything together the way it REALLY was. ;)
MacLean wrote excellent, clean adventure novels set during WWII or the Cold War. Full of tough good guys and nasty baddies they always have some twists and are solid escapist reading. There's usually a woman who may not be a great fighter but is courageous and smart, too. This tale of revenge is especially clever - a good way to while away a cold, grey afternoon.
The action is not slow in coming, but the storyline is intriguing – we have an inkling he is really a ‘goody’, but we don’t know this until a third of the way through the book; neither do we know whether he will succeed in his revenge on those who sinned against him or suffer a hideous death at their hands, until the end.MacLean, who passed away in 1987, was a prolific writer and hugely popular author from the early 1950s until his death, although arguably his best work was produced in the ‘50s and ‘60s.
The Handsome Hero stands firmly planted wearing a Chartreuse Sports Jacket, matching pants with slightly bulging crotch, with flaming bright red* hair and a scar** from his right eye to the angle of his right mandible, he is in the act of firing a Pistol with his Right hand, and clutching with his Left the terrified beautiful blonde Heiress with the skimpy green halter top and tight white pants.
Hence, the need for REVENGE, a dish that is certainly served up coldly and calmly in this Classic 1961 Dick Lit Genre Novel by Scotsman Alistair MacLean.
Eräässä oikeussalissa syytetään John Talbot –nimistä miestä törkeistä rikoksista.
Ilman ennakkovaroitusta John Talbot ampuu oikeussalissa poliisia, sieppaa erään vaaleaverikön kilvekseen ja syöksyy pakoon oikeuden puheenjohtajan omalla Chevroletilla.
Tytön nimi on Mary Ruthven – mutta kuka hän oikeastaan on?
Ja kuka on loppujen lopuksi tämä John Talbot?Miksi hän osallistuu selkkauksiin, joiden näyttämönä on öljymagnaatti Ruthvenin öljynporaustorni x13 Meksikon lahdella?Mistä Talbot tuntee Jablonskyn, virkaheiton poliisimiehen, jolla on huono maine ja vähän elonpäiviä – miksi hän seurustelee narkomaanien ja gangsteripäälliköiden kanssa?
Ja miten on mahdollista, että yleistä arvonantoa nauttiva kenraali Ruthven on voinut sekaantua hämäräperäisiin puuhiin?(takakansiteksti)TEKIJÄ	 Alistair MacLeanTEOKSEN NIMI	 Pelko on aseeniPAINOVUOSI	 1971PAINOS	 6KUSTANTAJA	 WSSIDONTA	 NidottuSIVUMÄÄRÄ	 294 (1)ALKUTEOS: Fear is the keyKIELI	 suomiSARJA	 Taskukirjasto 46KORKEUS (MM)	 180PAKSUUS (MM)	 14SYVYYS (MM)	 110PAINO (G)	 182
If you've read much MacLean, the "twist" on page 80 won't be much of a surprise; but otherwise, 50 years on this remains a surprisingly strong book.
Catches and holds your attention, and generally stands the test of time - with a few glaring exceptions, like references to George Raft, Little Lord Fauntleroy, and the fact that the whole plot revolves around trying to salvage "ten million dollars" - which comes off awfully Dr. Evil.
But hey, when was the last time you actually read a James Bond book?
While I didn't like his novels written after the early 70s, I've re-read many times all his novels from the 50s and 60s.Fear Is The Key is from the late 50s and while it was written during MacLean's heyday, it's not his best effort.
I enjoyed the setting and the main character.
Supporting characters were decent, though formulaic even in that early effort.
(MacLean's novels from Circus onward had a tiring repetition of cut-out characters that made me abandon him.)Despite the down-checks, however, Fear Is The Key is certainly worth the first read and followup re-readings.
Gripping and well written. Sympathetic (anti?)hero. Don’t read Goodread’s blurb because it gives away too much!
Whilst an interesting enough plot and series of characters, Fear is the Key didn't really do anything for me.
Within a relatively quick time the whole plot had been unraveled and broken down quite matter of factly and the mystery had disappeared.I can imagine this story to be revisited by another author who could add another dimension to it and to be frank can equally imagine it would be a much better read.I'd recommend it if you didn't have any other books to read and you wanted something straightforward but it won't do much else.
Not the most enthralling Maclean novel, a strange somewhat unbelievable plot. Nevertheless, it still had the trademark suspense and thrills that made Maclean famous. I would recommend this book as your first Maclean novel if you want to read them all, as it may seem better when not compared toForce 10 From Navarone, When Eight Bells Toll, The Last Frontier or HMS Ulysses which are definitely my favourites so far.
I have recently been re-reading all the books by Alistair Maclean that I read when I was a teenager, which was all the ones he'd written up to Caravan to Vaccarès I think.
After that they lost something and I stopped reading them.
They are still great fun to read.
But he has a great sense of humour and the plots zing along with not a word wasted.
This is one of his better ones.
It is much better than the film, which I saw shortly after reading the book the first time and was hugely disappointed.
Being a big fan of MacLean and knowing I saw the movie years ago but not really remembering anything about the plot, I dived into this.
It starts well with the hero breaking out of a courthouse in Florida, and when he subsequently gets captured at a motel, and taken to a bigshot oil baron's house, you sense the workings of the plot begin to grind.
Unfortunately, the book gets bogged down with a lot of talking after a moonlight rendezvous with an oil rig.
When the hero ends up at the diving bell, I gave up all hope.
"Fear is the key" is a mindless action adventure thriller and does not purport to be anything more.
The opening plot is slightly incredulous, what with the courthouse jailbreak, but that's acceptable and encouraged in the genre I suppose.
And it is written well.I will give credit to the author where it is due, the story is not overly predictable, an ailment that mindless action is usually crippled by and offers some fairly engrossing insights into the world of deep sea exploration without suffering from unnecessary pedantry.
It's an unremarkable story written by a talented author, and makes for a thoroughly entertaining reading experience.Definitely recommended for fans of the genre.

Enoni, joka ei omien sanojensa mukaan juuri kirjoja lue, suositteli tätä minulle (ja lainasi suomenkielisen painoksenkin). Vaikkei jännityskirjallisuus ole ihan minun heiniä, luin kuitenkin. Alun suoraviivainen toiminta oli tylsää, mutta loppuvaiheessa, kun tarinan monikerroksellisuus alkoi paljastua ja eri ihmisten syyllisyyttä alettiin punnita, kiinnostuin enemmän. Ja sitten kirja jo loppuikin. Ei minun kirjani, mutta jos tykkää jännityksestä, niin olihan tämä ihan hauska.
I have always held this MacLean novel in high regard. It falls into his early period of great work--late 1950s-early 1960s. It is very typical on some levels and unique on others. This hero is a little less lethal than some, but he is very compelling. You know his motive from the beginning, but in the end, revenge is somewhat hollow. Solid action, good characters. Vintage MacLean. This was fun to re-read.
Audiobook read by Francis Matthews, whose British voice ably reproduced many voices, including American. The story was obviously cleverly written and had a dry sense of humor. The book began with a criminal for a hero!But even with all the unexpected turns to the plot, I didn't care about the characters or the story line, and found myself avoiding listening to it, so I haven't finished it. It may have been that I was too distracted to enjoy the book and should try again!
A dramatic Prologue opens up a big mystery as a plane is shot down because of something it is carrying. There is also a clever twist as you discover the true identity of the central character - known as Chrysler - but I found it hard to get past the man's arrogance. Yes it's part of the act but his attitude doesn't get much better once he reveals his true identity. I also found it tough to get past the sexist attitudes of the time, even though the female is pretty brave at one point.
This was not my favorite Alistair MacLean book. The story was ok, but I felt there was a problem with the narrative since the first part of the book is presented under false pretenses. Somehow it seems worse than an unreliable narrator when the lie the narrator is perpetrating exists only to preserve an artificial sense of suspense. It was still entertaining, but marred by this flaw in the telling. Just OK.
Alistair Maclean is one of the great writer of thrillers in the post-WWII era. He wrote before the time when series were written with one hero and his cast of friends and enemies. This book, for example, involves the offshore oil industry and oil drilling from jack-up drilling rigs. The characters are well-fleshed out, except where facts are withheld to maintain dramatic tension; and the plot moves along with pretty good speed. I recommend this book; it's an oldie but goodie!
