https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25179.Blankets
Craig Thompson, for all the lack of works in his bibliography, is one of the best creators working in comics today. Apart from Blankets, he has only released one other major work of fiction. (His third,  Habibi , will be released this Fall.) [The cutest of meet-cutes.]There are any number of reasons that Thompson's work should be lauded. His art is gorgeous and his brushline expressive. He treats personal topics with a sense of both whimsy and honesty. He writes true experiences, even when they'
And though one may often wish to chastise him for such sillinesses, his youthful passion and pendular over-reactions will more than likely endear Craig to readers as they recognize more than a little of themselves in him.This book is a masterpiece of form, symbol, and structure.
Thompson's art here is fluid and is of that less-polished variety found also in Goodbye Chunky Rice and serves well to establish the variety of moods described in his several vignettes.From the perspective of one who grew up both in a faith-community that was friendlier to the arts and in a home whose high standards weren't as strictly enforced, I found his story particularly compelling and tragic.
Here are seven lines from Blankets that pretty much sums up the story:1.
I couldn't fathom that the soul trapped in my child body would be transplanted to its grotesque adolescent counterpart.2.
But in that little pathetic clump of blankets there was comfort.3.
We both knew that nothing existed for us outside of the moment.4.
Maybe I'm sad about wanting you.
I'm not too comfortable with wanting someone.5.
Shame is always easier to handle if you have someone to share it with.6.
How satisfying it is to leave a mark on a blank surface.
To make a map of my movement--no matter how temporary.7.
Rating: 3.5/5 stars
16, at a Bible summer camp, Craig meets and falls in love with Raina, a kind of ethereal beauty whom he fancies is like him, a loner, into nature, increasingly less into organized religion.
The artwork in Blankets is also a patchwork quilt of gorgeous, sweeping, romantic images of the natural world (snow, trees, weather), likening it to patterns in Raina’s dress and hair, open and free and spacious and lovely in contrast to the darker, more sinister patches of his oppressive house and Sunday school.
Blankets is a gorgeously expressive, exquisitely drawn book about first love, religion, family, art, nature, memory, blankets.
I just read this in one sitting. Incredible. First graphic novel i've given 5 full stars to.
It reads more like 400 [illustrated] pages of masturbatory teen-angst.
At times I had to check the title page to make sure I wasn't accidentally reading Dawson's Creek: The Graphic Novel.
I'm sure it was a momentous change for the author, but the lack of explanation makes it seem almost arbitrary.
Blankets has a few redeeming qualities, such as Thompson's flashbacks to his childhood in the room he shared with his little brother.
Though light and emotionally unburdoned, they conveyed more personality than the love story he focused on for most of the book.
NON RIUSCIVO A CAPIRE......come l'anima racchiusa nel mio corpo da bambino potesse essere trapiantata nella sua grottesca controparte adolescenteRaccontare il crescere, da bambino diventare adolescente, raccontare il diventare.E raccontare il silenzio.Silenzio pieno di pensieri, ma forse anche più di emozioni.Che diventano mie, che sono mie, le mie che avevo a quell’epoca della vita, che in verità è uno stato dell’essere. Bello. Molto bello. Molto molto.Tenero, struggente, divertente, romantico, profondo, acuto, geniale… L'educazione sentimentale di Craig andrebbe letta più volte a età diverse, dovrebbe accompagnarci nel cammino. Un grande Bildungsroman per tutte le età. Grazie Mr Thompson.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Contrary jerkoff party of 1? I’m here I’m here! While a 3 Star rating is most definitely a perfectly fine rating – in this case I am one of a handful amongst my friends who dared to not give 4 or 5. Allow me a moment to ‘splain myself. If I were judging solely on the artwork I would break the GR rating system and allot Blankets 10. I mean seriously it begins right at the cover . . .  Très belle! And for those of you who have developed
If I were judging solely on the artwork I would break the GR rating system and allot Blankets 10.
I mean seriously it begins right at the cover .
Maybe it’s just because I had never heard of Craig Thompson before (be gentle, I’m still a graphic novel noob), but this might have worked better for me if it was about a fictional character.
I don't get the trend of everyone thinking their life story is something worth writing about and while Thompson did have a superbad happen, it was barely a blip on the over 600 pages contained in this book.
Anyway, obviously it’s just me and I read this wrong.
Go read Carmen’s review instead.
It probably took Craig Thompson 10 years of hard graft, and after two hours I just snap my fingers & say yeah, loved that – next!
I believed in Craig and Raina and their awkward families.
And I liked all the Christian stuff – the charm of the quaint idea of a teenage boy in the 1990s telling himself that even kissing a girl is probably wrong.Craig gets very detailed about some things, but remains aggravatingly vague about other things that you really wanna know about.
Like the weird thing with the babysitter.
What was the babysitter doing with Craig & his little brother??
And the ending was rushed as if someone had said Craig, you have to stop now- NOW!
about beauty and sadness and time turning the pure white snow into a sea of dirty slush; and about the precious few things you can salvage, like a quilt of many shapes and coloursI am such a big fan of Craig Thompson's second graphic novel ("Habibi") that I was actually afraid to start on his first one, lest I be disappointed.
I could detect some homage paid to Bill Waterson and some echoes of Henry Rousseau, but Craig Thompson is an authentic and powerful voice in the adult comic market, well worth a try for anybody who still belives that comics are all about superheroes in spandex."Blankets is my first graphic novel of 2016, and I feel I am on the right path.
Thomson managed to take his own growing up in small town, rural Wisconsin in a conservative, evangelical Christian family and make it interesting to the reader - I do not know where the book exceeds the limits of autobiography (or if it does it at all), but I was engaged all the way throughout it and was simply interested in learning what will happen next.Blankets chronicles the childhood and adolescence of the author/protagonist Craig, and all the struggles that come with it: having to share a room with his younger brother, his devotion and struggle to live according to Biblical principles in a complicated word, and eventually his first love, Raina.
book #12 for Jugs & Capes! review #8 for CCLaP!I joke about this a lot, but it’s true that in some ways, in the squishiest little corner of my mushy little heart, I am still a teenage girl. My favorite TV show, ever and still, is My So-Called Life. I have read Margaret Atwood’s  Cat’s Eye  probably thirty times. I still listen to Fall Out Boy, for fuck’s sake! I listen to other music too, obviously, hipster fabulous bands you’ve never heard of (I live in Brooklyn, after all), but something i
Except I didn’t.You probably know the story by now, since this book made Craig pretty damn famous, winning all kinds of Eisner and Harvey awards and making bestseller lists everywhere.
And then there’s God. That’s the other main thing about this book; religion is nearly as main a character as Craig and Raina.
And maybe that’s true, maybe at thirty-five there really isn’t much more than that one intense romance, the enduring heartache of not having been a good enough big brother, the struggle with one’s faith.
“How satisfying it is to leave a mark on a blank surface. To make a map of my movement…no matter how temporary.” and because I couldn’t decide between the two…. “At night, lying on your back and staring at the falling snow, it’s easy to imagine oneself soaring through the stars.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.Those last 3 pages, wow. High Points.Craig.Snow. Brothers. Church camp. Patchwork. Under the pool table. Cubby holes. Identity. Faith. The future. First loves. Doubt (“It’s reassuring”). And
And, of course, the illustrations.How can people say they don’t like graphic novels when they look like these ones?On the back of my book, Entertainment Weekly described Blankets as “visual poetry” and I can’t help but agree.
Also, there are no snowball fights but there is snow frolicking.I loved how Mr Thompson used Raina illustrate how easily people can move on from things that were so amplified at a certain point in their life, almost to the extent that they gave them definition.
We always think of women being oppressed, repressed, damaged, and unhappy as a result of this message, but as I wrote in my review of TAKE MY HAND, men and boys are very hurt and damaged as well.As someone who loves Jesus and reads his Bible daily, Craig has developed a fear of sexuality, finely tuned by his parents, his teachers, and his church.
He really and truly feels like he is "making Jesus sad" when he thinks lustful thoughts.Then he meets a girl.
I was rooting for Craig to make peace with his sexual feelings towards Raina during the whole book, and really cheering them on as a couple.
Coming home I decided to read other reviews of the book before writing this, something I don't usually do, but felt I'd see if other people had some of the problems I had.
My big problem with the book is the sexual abuse part, which sort of comes out of left field, is used as a juxtaposition between the way the main character and the love interest show responsibility towards their siblings, but is then sort of just left sitting there.
I liked this book but more on my immediate feelings for it then when I think about it.
Wow. Every bit as earthshaking and meaningful as Marjane Satrapi’s Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood, this graphic novel by Craig Thompson published in 2003 by Top Shelf is one thoughtful Americans do not want to miss.
We are treated to Raina's home life as well, another Christian family who struggles under enormous pressures.Graphic novels are especially impressive because they must portray characters from an endless array of angles, and in this case, we recognize a character as he grows over a period of years.
In my case would it have turned into the story of a person who escapes a pretty good tolerant childhood into the world of a restrictive and overbearing church?Anyway this graphic novel starts off as another retelling of that first kind of story.
It's during the middle part that this book earns its stars.
The Maugham quote above would be a perfect title for that part of this book.
Perhaps true desire can never be satisfied because it only exists in the future tense, never in the perfect.
I so identified with him, that the fact that he didn't feel what I would have felt, kind of unsettled me.
Το "Blankets" τού Κραιγκ Τόμπσον (Craig Thompson) είναι μια αυτοβιογραφική ιστορία και συνάμα μια ιστορία αγάπης.Παρακολουθούμε τον ήρωα παιδί να μεγαλώνει με τον μικρό αδερφό του σε μια θρησκόληπτη και αυταρχική οικογένεια που από την μία αδυνατεί να υπερασπιστεί τα δύο παιδιά και από την άλλη τους εμφυτεύει χριστιανικές τύψεις για πράγματα που δεν θά 'πρεπε.Έρχεται λοιπόν η στιγμή που ο έφηβος Κραιγκ συναντά σε μια κατασκήνωση ένα ιδιαίτερο κορίτσι που γίνεται η παρέα του και που αργότερα θα καταφέρει να αποσπάσει την άδεια των γονιών του να την επισκεφτεί στην μακρινή της πόλη.Δεν θα ήθελα να πω περισσότερα για την πλοκή κι αυτά τα λίγα δεν τα θεωρώ αποκαλυπτικά ώστε να τα αποκρύψω εδώ πέρα.Να πω μονάχα πως είναι μια πολύ ανθρώπινη και καλοφτιαγμένη ιστορία που ο καθένας θα διαβάσει πολύ ευχάριστα.
Πιστεύω πως είναι από τα εικονογραφηγήματα που θα το απολαύσουν καί τα κορίτσια, ίσως μάλιστα περισσότερο αυτά.

But my friend, a struggling journalist living in Queens, told me that 'Blankets' was a semi-autobiographical graphic novel well worth the read.And so being a bit of a junkie when it comes to reading (especially on these long trips) and impressed by some of the supposed 'comic books' that I have run across in my time (Mister X, From Hell, Maus, Blue Monday, etc...) reading something like this seemed an interesting diversion.
It's the semi-autobiographical story that starts with Craig from his childhood, sharing a bed with his brother huddled against the cold of Wisconsin winters.
It mirrors his relationship growing up in the Christian faith, the child of devout parents.
Christianity is a refuge against the small-town bullies but becomes something he has to wrestle with in the throes of young love when he meets Raina.
While nowhere nearly as devout I recognize both the strength and the torment growing up in the faith can have.
How the raptures of faith can come up hard against the awareness of first love and how both can be utterly transporting and wildly confusing.
Peguei esse quadrinho pra ler sem saber nada a respeito da história e acabei me identificando demais com o protagonista.
Só achei o final meio anti-climático mas como se trata de um quadrinho auto-biográfico, é complicado esperar um final mirabolante, já que o autor estava narrando a própria vida.
E às vezes a vida acaba não nos dando o final feliz e perfeito que a gente quer.Enfim, gostei muito e recomendo bastante.
Principalmente pra você que também cresceu em um lar religioso, sendo ensinado na base do medo de ir pro inferno.
Com certeza essa história vai mexer com você.
The philosopher Pat Benatar once claimed, "Hell is for children", and indeed, Craig Thompson's young life was overrun with glimpses of that fiery underworld.
Bullies, religious zealots, scary cubby holes, and a baby sitter who liked to do naughty things...just a typical day for Craig and his brother Phil.
It was not a warm and snuggly existence.His teen years were not much better, as he fell headlong into love and experienced a crisis of faith.
And all the while, there was that nagging worry that he should done a better job protecting his baby brother.This beautifully drawn graphic novel serves as a reminder that life can be harsh.
Rating Edited on 12/26/15.  Am upping my rating from 4 stars to 5 stars because this was the first book I read this year and after 12 months it still stands out to me as a powerful and lingering story despite the open ending that originally caused me to knock a star off. One of the BEST graphic novels I've ever read. Highly recommend. -----------------First book of 2015!Beautiful artwork and touching story.
So, when presented with what I was told would be an epic tale of a young man's feelings presented in comic book format, I set up my Dell desktop to play a loop of downloaded indie emo and dove in.As an older man, an elder statesman, I'm prepared to admit that some of the strong dislike I felt for this book could have come from the fact that it was so popular.
But the other part of the problem is that it felt like Blankets was one of those books that people used as a tool to separate Comic Books from Graphic Novels.
It FEELS like he was spending a lot of time thinking about who would be reading about his life as opposed to putting it down on paper.
No book has ever come so close to my own story...
it really left me in tears because I knew *exactly* what the author was writing about...
That was [is:] my family - just replace the little brother with sisters and the landscape to New Mexico.
That was me at fundy church camp.
That was me fighting over the bed covers with my little sister but then crying when we were separated.
That was me exchanging letters with my church camp boyfriend (although it never went as "deeply" into first love as this story).
Plus, it was a beautiful book.
I think I have a new favorite.
Blankets had been on my wishlist for years. I knew it was a coming-of-age story, but I wasn't prepared for how gritty it could be. The story of young Craig Thompson and his little brother was both bleak and poignant. The story becomes more hopeful as Craig grows older and falls in love for the first time. Even though the religious aspect was a little too heavy for me, Blankets is full of lovely cinematic panels and gorgeous illustrations.I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books.
Craig explores the pivotal experiences and memories that have shaped his life.
I was happy to learn more about him, but the emotional turmoil and angst of adolescence was not well communicated through his story.
Much of the book focuses on Raina and Craig's romance that they were able to explore for two weeks when he comes to visit.
We were briefly allowed into her family life when Craig goes to visit.
I would recommend this for fans of non-fiction graphic novels, who enjoy good artwork.
Many other readers have absolutely loved this, so it's worth a shot, but this didn't work for me.
I thought this book was so well done.
Most of the story is told in a blanket of snow.
I thought the love story was so well done and Craig was very honest about who he was and what he went through.
I really did love reading this story.
If you are looking for a soft story of searching and searching and questions, this is your book.
I have been through a rough trimester and I feel empty and this story completely matched my mood.
I am waiting for that blanket of winter and I simply fell into this story.
Going into this I was hesitant for reasons I don’t even recall, but Blankets really hit home for me.It’s an emotional story following the lives of two brothers from childhood to adulthood.
And I’m getting really emotional just thinking about everything that happened.I enjoyed the family parts of this story more than the relationship bits.
The parts from their childhood together were one of my favorites in this story.It was a lonely, lovely, and comforting read that will definitely stay with me for a long time*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying Blankets, just click on the image below to go through my link.
