https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75490.The_Seminar_of_Jacques_Lacan
All the people in the world who know I'm baptizing myself in Lacan could fit in the same car with me. They've already heard what I think, there's probably some understanding, a few care. But I'll say it again. The path of traversed fantasies leading through subjective destitution is narrow and crooked, but the paradisaical lure of shedding one's mortal contingencies is heavenly.
I'm not quite as blown away as I was with Seminar no.3 on the Psychoses, but, as always, Lacan is a pleasure to read, if not a little frustrating/demanding.
This is earlier in his career when he's more interested in the symbolic register's situation over and against the real and the imaginary (as opposed to his later work which is trendier among humanities' students, wherein the real as impossible or as lack is emphasized against the imaginary and the symbolic orders)--for that reason it gives a clear if rudimentary account of the symbolic.And again, as with The Psychoses, this course begins at a slow crawl; the first forty pages or so seem to wander in all directions (dry, disparate, needless directions).
I still don't really get the mirrors, vases and flowers.
É um dos seminários mais "compreensíveis" do Lacan, quando ele ainda não havia deixado a IPA, mas já se mostrava insatisfeito com muitos aspectos da escola. Nesse seminário ele lê e analisa os textos sobre a técnica psicanalítica de Freud, como o Introdução ao Narcisismo, e fala muito sobre a tópica do Imaginário, o esquema óptico e a resistência. Gostei bastante.
I actually read a brief text called something like The hysteric question.
The author will exalt speech: considering how finely delivered, impressively sustained his oral discourse is, its value as underscored in analysis would be deserved. In fact, the presentation assumes at times a dimension pertaining to a maieutics, a Socratic dialogue--with a magnificent troupe of characters. How could it be that yet no dramatic play has been based on this text? I picture it in my head as theater, and love it.
Lacan is easier to follow when he's talking than when he's writing.
Woehoe! Gelezen in kartel.
There are moments when the text in front of you explodes. Lacan was charismatic and inspired and (arguably) one of the greatest theorists that ever lived.
