https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2120652.Love_the_One_You_re_With
I really liked her other novels and found them to be quick, fun, beach-reads that still conjured up some feelings and life lessons.
And I believe that she started cheating the moment she held hands with him on the plane - right up to the sneaky emails, texts, phone calls, and kiss scene at the end.Even though in Something Borrowed, cheating is a main element to the story, she wrote it in such a way that you didn't hate Rachel or Dex for doing what she they were doing, instead you understood.
You don't have to agree with something to understand it and that's what was lacking for me in this novel.
It occurred to me that unmarried readers might not fully appreciate Ellen's feelings or motivations as marriage is something you can really only understand if you've experienced it.While the character of Ellen was superbly developed, I thought all of the supporting cast - including the husband, the ex-boyfriend, the sister, and the best friend - were lacking.
Although the book is written in the first person from Ellen's perspective, I thought more could be done to make these other characters come to life.
This book was awful.
It isn't even worth a full review and so I will try to summarize it in a few lines.Ellen: I love Andy SO SO SO MUCH!Andy: I'm practically the epitome of a good person, and the author paints me in a way that makes me seem perfect.
So yay: the story should just finish at this point.Leo: *glances at ellen*Ellen: OH MY GOD OH MY GOD.
Leo: *glances at Ellen*Ellen: I WILL ALWAYS LOVEEEEE YOUUUUUUUUUUU!
Possibly never have I disliked a book more than I did this one.
If possible- I would give this book a negative star rating.
To begin, I pretty much hated all the characters.
Even the main character Ellen who I think we’re supposed to sympathize with, comes across as shallow.
The ending of the book is predictable and entirely too neatly resolved.
It left me wondering what the point of reading this was??!
It will take something drastic to convince me to read another of Griffin's books again.
in which I end up trapped somewhere with nothing to read but one of her books.
I also liked how the scope of this book covered both the modern love story (in that the one we end up with is rarely the 1st one we have loved) and how losing Andy would have meant losing so much more for Ellen.It's hard to say what I would do if a smoldering love from the past were to appear - but as Ellie eventually found out -ex boyfriends are generally an "x" for that reason.
I think Leo, always has been, and remains a very selfish man.I thought it was interesting how Ellie wasn't sure if getting everything she wanted was pedantic, or a dream come true.
Love the One You're With is a standalone, women's fiction/chick-lit novel written by author Emily Giffin.
I guess today I was just craving more of an escape, and Ms. Giffin's real-life fiction didn't quite give it to me...I spent too much of my time squeezing my eyes shut at the sure-to-come consequences.
But her style is obviously working for lots of readers, so read the synopsis of her some of her books and see if they're for you!My favorite quote:“I think of how life takes unexpected twists and turns, sometimes through sheer happenstance, sometimes through calculated decisions.
In fact, I would say that the test of loyalty might be stronger due to the blood relationship between Margot and Andy.Anyways, I don't want to say too much, I had a feeling as to how the book would end given the title...it was just my intrigue to see how Ellen would get from point a to point b.The premise of the story is something I think most people can relate to, male or female, as at some point in our lives I suspect we have all felt the same way about the road not taken.
And cheating is a touchy subject with me...I finally decided to just give it a chance and see how it went, since I had yet to pick up a Giffin book that I didn't love...this might be that book, I think.Ellen and Andy have a wonderful marriage.
So I couldn't really understand why, eight years after he and Ellen ended their relationship, she is still so affected by Leo. She has what she herself describes a wonderfully happy marriage, yet she starts walking a dangerous line, wondering "What if?".
Love the One You're With has that same emotional depth, that same messiness that you cringe at but can't look away from or stop reading.Ellen finally has all that she's dreamed of: a handsome husband she loves, a successful and satisfying career as a photographer, and an apartment in the city she loves.
And the more she sees Leo, the more she questions her life with Andy, especially once they leave NY for Atlanta.I won't say more since I don't want to give it away, but if you love a good, fast, riveting read, definitely pick this up.
He touches her hand and leaves but Leo doesn’t leave Ellen’s thoughts, not even when she’s with her husband, Andy, the man she loves and adores, the man she married.
Leo contacts Ellen again with a career-making offer to photograph a celebrity in Los Angeles.
Ellen doesn’t plan to see him again, but Leo has other plans, and so does Andy.
She’s rich and her handsome husband loves her, but nothing feels right.
She misses the electric excitement of New York City and her career – and she misses Leo. Did she make a mistake marrying Andy, moving to Atlanta, giving up her career .
Her first two books were nearly impossible to put down, she wrote the main characters so sympathetically and realistically that the stories truly came alive.
I couldn't see why she'd ever dated this ex of hers, and I wasn't sympathetic to her plot because she just seemed so dumb.
It just wasn't interesting.Very disappointing, especially from an author who I know can write wonderful books.
I'm sure others enjoyed this because she is a good writer, and even in this book her talent shows through, but for me, the writing wasn't enough to save it.
I had both good and bad reactions to this book.
I also though Giffin did a good job of examining love and choice from a variety of angles.
A very multi-facted way of viewing the storyline.Bad: Sometimes Ellen just STRESSED me out.
I'm all for the unpredictable ending, but I felt like Giffin was reaching on that one.Overall, I gave it a 4 because I liked the essential themes of this novel--true tests of love, deciding what it means to be truly committed, etc.
But I can't say it's better than Giffin's first two novels, because the characters just got to me too much.
But years later, after Leo and I had long broken up, and Andy and I had begun to date, I would deconstruct that moment in exhausting detail, as any woman would.And, a little later in the book, as Ellen talks about how she first met tantalizing ex-boyfriend, Leo:The thought took me by surprise as I wasn’t accustomed to assessing strange men in such a strictly physical way.
So I can see how some women who read this book might identify with what Ellen is going through.Yet for all the seriousness of these issues, Giffin never actually challenges or critiques them in any meaningful way.
So, I was totally psyched to read the latest offering from Emily Giffin.
She is a photographer and a newlywed, and she has just run into her ex, Leo. This is where the story gets good!Running into her ex leads to both physical and emotional reactions in Ellen.
Was he the right choice, or did she settle for him?This complex combination of feelings and questions sets up the rest of the novel.
Ellen will grapple with love, lust, duty, and honor, all while just trying to achieve some level of happiness.Once the story takes off, it’s difficult to put down this super fast read.
I have to admit that I do like some "chick-lit" and that I have read all of Emily Giffin's books. That said, I really didn't think that this book was anything special. The plot was predictable, and the characters weren't particularly memorable. Giffin's first two books, "Something Borrowed" and "Something Blue" were certainly more engaging; I wasn't as impressed by "Baby Proof" or "Love the One You're With."
At times it was as if the author was in my head, telling my story, although unlike Ellen, I didn't stay with my husband.Overall I really liked the book.
Ellen's husband Andy (who is also Margot's brother) was also just too picture perfect.
Life just isn't like that, and I would have liked to have seen Ellen leave Andy, as it was clear to me that while she LOVED him, she wasn't IN LOVE with him.
It would have been cool to see Ellen leave Andy and go live in NYC on her own.
I'm curious to know whether Emily Giffin can write a book without a destroyed marriage or infidelity.
Infidelity is not at all something that I agree with, but granted, she writes the situations in a way that you can sympathize with the characters.
That being said, every author has to have more than one plot line when they are writing multiple books.
And frankly, no matter the character's jobs or the different ways infidelity was brought about, all of these books are the same.
Even John Grisham, who mostly writes books about lawyers and courtroom battles has different plots.
Giffin is a one hit wonder, it just so happens she has multiple books.
please, please, please don't bother...the in demand shelves at the library beckoned...i listened...and am now a national spokeswoman to say, please do not bother. save yourself. re-read an old favorite book & you'll be oh that much happier, i guarantee :)
I found the main character Ellen as a whiny, ungrateful brat.
That is funny because the author wrote a sad background story for her: poor, pittsburgh breed, lost her mother as teen.
However I felt angry as I read the book that she was such a bitchy woe is me kind of girl.
The book did send emotion through me but I normally like my light reading to be funny and make me feel good.
I just felt hateful towards the main character and what she was doing.
It's just too bad I waited a long time for this book to be returned to the library.
I also enjoyed Something Blue and Baby Proof and was excited when I finally saw Love the One You’re With at the second-hand bookswop I go to.I quite liked the idea of the story: Ellen is married but after 100 days of marriage she bumps into her ex-boyfriend Leo. It seems she isn’t over him so the question is: who does she want to be with?I just think the whole thing could have been explored a bit more.
The story began with Ellen Graham, who reasoned she’s got OCD and thus counted the days since she got married with Andy.
Her Leo.Ellen got great taste in photography, she had the talent and skill.
She didn’t tell her husband Andy about her encounter with Leo. No, she hid it and managed to forget about her husband while she was with her ex.
Andy seemed to be getting farther and farther away from Ellen’s mind.
While I was contented with how Ellen and Andy ended, I still had this feeling that Ellen shouldn’t have done what she did.
Maybe that’s what it all comes down to.
When I asked her why she read so many of them, she told me that each of the books had a resonating undertone of the married life and the feelings that all married women feel at one point or another.So, now, after I have devoured all of Emily Giffin's books, I feel the same way about her depiction of 25-30ish something independent women and the married life that they lead.
I know that all married women experience this at some point and just reading a fictional novel about Ellen and reading Ellen's honest questions to herself...it made me feel like I was Ellen.You always wonder if you have made the right choice, even if you are madly in love with your significant other.
Here, our plucky girl in the city has just married a smart, successful, rich, nice, handsome guy who adores her and who happens to be the brother of her best friend from college.
A chance run-in with her ex-boyfriend on the street somehow (inexplicably, in my view) leads to months of subterfuge and guilt-inducing internal dialogues about whether she belong with the good guy she's married to or the ex who gave her "intensity" but not much more.
And like Ellen, I never really got closure so there was always the what if questions.
But as you get older and more experienced in ways of the heart, you realize you change as a person in love and how you felt then may not be how it would be now.
I am glad she stayed with Andy, her real true love.
While Leo was exciting and passionate and Ellen seemed to like how she was with him, her life with Andy was who she was now and that life was good.
This book was a very interesting story where Ellen, a woman in her 30s, realizes she still has feelings for her ex from many years ago. One day she runs into him in the city and is met with a challenge of who she wants to be with more: Her husband or her ex. I found this book a little slow at times but it was a good story. I recommend this for anyone who enjoys romance stories.
This book was a very interesting story where Ellen, a woman in her 30s, realizes she still has feelings for her ex from many years ago. One day she runs into him in the city and is met with a challenge of who she wants to be with more: Her husband or her ex. I️ found this book a little slow at times but it was a good story. I️ recommend this for anyone who enjoys romance stories.
Es como si alguien hubiese decidido coger todo lo que detesto y hubiese escrito un libro con ello LOL, qué malo por merlín. Lástima que no se puedan dar estrellas negativas porque esta cosa las merece.
I'm unsure about this book (but I REALLY wanted to love it)...part of me wanted to give it 4 stars and then there were times when I was thinking 2-3.
I probably would have given it 3.5 stars, but that option isn't on goodreads.
I don't want to say too much because many of you are planning on reading this book...and I honestly can't pinpoint why I wasn't as big of a fan of this book as some of her others.
She wasn't wretched or anything, I just didn't identify with her very well.
I'm interested to see what others think about this book though!
2.5 starsI didn't like this book...
It put me in a bad mood just reading it.
But a friend from work had loaned it to me and I hated to not finish it.
(I really enjoy Jill Mansell's chick lit books, so she thought I might like this author too.) Once I got past halfway, it got a little better.
But still not something I would recommend or read again.
It's my first time reading Emily Giffin, and will most likely be my last.
I hate giving a bad review, but I have to be honest on this one.
This book had me from page one and kept me there until the end. It is filled with suspense and anticipation, at one point I was truly dreading what would come next and couldn’t put the book down. I simply love it when it’s like that.Also, there is the happy ending! With Leo or Andy? This I will not tell…
And oh guuurrrl, does Emily Giffin write good chick lit.
Many people disregard chick lit as pure fluff, but I think Emily Giffin definitely breaks that mold.
I swear, every time I read a synopsis of one of her books, I sit back and think, "Oh, that's easy--she should do this." But, just like life itself, Emily Giffin shows the answer is not always as easy as one may think.
I felt like these people were actually a part of my life.
For those people who actively dismiss chick lit, or for those looking to try it out, I want to push Emily Giffin's boks into their hands and urge them to give them a try.
