https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400.Libra
Given my well-advertised detestation of all things conspiracytheoretical, you might think I would want to give Libra the widest of berths.
This book is like dancing with Don DeLillo, and dancing with the young President, and dancing with the handsome man who has no face, and cannot be named, while ten quaaludes are slushing through your blood system and dark hands are pouring margaritas for you at each slow waltzlike revolution of the enormous ballroom from whose windows the glitterball reveals gun barrels glinting.
En Libra DeLillo propone que el asesino «oficial» del presidente Kennedy, Lee Harvey Oswald, solo fue la cara visible de una conspiración mucho más grande y enrevesada, fundada desde el mismo corazón de los EE.
DeLillo juega con cambios de tiempo aleatorios y sin previo aviso, diálogos entre personajes que le hablan al aire, dentro de un soliloquio cortado por otras voces en el fondo y a las que también se debe escuchar, y todo este caos crea un clima que absorbe al lector en la misma conspiración.
This book of DeLillo was a brilliant dive into the background of Kennedy's presumed assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald (with a cameo of his killer Jack Ruby). It is well-written and well-paced and a great read. I would put it on the level with Mao II and White Noise but below Underworld. So an essential DeLillo as long as you have UW under your belt already.
well actually, at times it felt like it.
the novel makes no attempt to be historically factual.
the novel is historically factual, as much as anything can be.
the conspiracy theory as just one version of the many-told tale, stories handed down from teller to teller.
actually, more than that - storytelling is perhaps the point of the whole novel.
who is the real person behind the historical personage, behind the character in the story?
the jokes are secret jokes, told with a straight face.
astrology is an illusion, as is motivation and circumstance and conspiracy and history itself.
From DeLillo's writing emerges portrait of a man without qualities, somewhat mysterious yet undecidable character - we fail to know what exactly his motivation was.On the second plan we get the conspiratorial activities of the special services and the criminal groups.
Yes, the same DeLillo is doing.Like every tragic and unsolved mystery Kennedy’s assassination became a source of a variety theories trying to get a logical explanation.
The picture that DeLillo creates is so unsettling and thought-provoking, and the whole story so coherent and plausible that when we finish our reading, our thinking is and what if that was like that … .
DeLillo and I are friends now!!We had started off on the wrong foot, but Libra has patched things up.
Oh well.) Oswald's mother's neurotic behavior, his wife Marina's feelings of helplessness, dilemmas of many characters are portrayed so well that even minor characters carve a niche for themselves and stay with the reader.Unlike typical thrillers where characters are mere caricatures blindly running after power/money ***, DeLillo's characters are quite real.
Despite knowing how the story is going to end, it is never uninteresting.For me, the most outstanding part of Libra is the realization of the character Lee Harvey Oswald.
" There's always more to it. This is what history consists of. It is the sum total of things they aren't telling us. "The novel is a tragic, speculative account of the people, places and things leading to the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy. Delillo uses many of the actual words of Oswald and his mom Marguerite, as well as numerous documented facts surrounding the life and times of Lee Harvey Oswald, so that I had difficulty discerning where the public records stop and the fictio
This is likely why Delillo takes pains to remind us that his novel makes "no claim to literal truth" and that he "made no attempt to furnish factual answers to any questions raised by the assassination."It is significant to note that the several films speculating on Lee Harvey Oswald, a conspiracy and the assassination of JFK, such as Oliver Stone's "JFK" from 1991, came after the 1988 publication of Delillo's Libra.
This one took about a month to read so I should respect that time turning its pages and write a few commemorative words.
What I mean is that DeLillo's sentences always seem to have an eye on a subtextual prize, that is, they always seem like an updated, abstract response to that question posed long ago by some cavedweller about the meaning of life, as opposed to turns of phrase for the sake of well-crafted whateverness.
All characters are part of the whole (society, history, the universe), and all characters have been brought to life solely to speak DeLillo's words.
“Facts are lonely things.” American history is profoundly dark in its timeline. From the slaughtering and near genocidal extermination of the Native Americans to the 9/11 attacks, American history presents itself as an almost constant struggle for survival. History has not been so kind when it comes to America. Inevitably, and understandably, it is so very interesting, and the American people are also equally interesting. Their history is internationally relatable due to the ancestral voyages u
Fact, hypothesis, speculation and fiction are all methodically rolled into one, creating this postmodern odyssey.Libra, an immensely impressive work by American writer Don DeLillo, is one of those books that defines the feeling of America, past, present and future.
Libra does this, utilising words, and every sentence counts, as he ruthlessly dissects America during the Cold War, leaving the sugarcoating and flag-waving patriotism at the back door.Libra, in all its glory, terrifies the reader with its powerful examination of Lee Harvey Oswald and the events leading up to the assassination of JFK.
Which I'm sure is the idea, and could even be a little joke on DeLillo's part, since I'm sure he's aware that he's perceived as existing on the brilliant/crazy faultline by his fans and his detractors alike, but it's hard for me to know what to make of this novel, if it was intended as a straight-but-sophisticated historical thriller (I feel Running Dog is more obviously parody, but this isn't Running Dog), even an attempt to legitimatize the genre, or an Eco-style parody of our fascination with the currents of history.
Libro definitivo sulla madre di tutti i complotti e di come Mafia/Cia/FBI/Anticastristi portino quasi per sbaglio un ragazzo di ventitre anni che non aveva il motivo, le capacità e nemmeno la volontà, ad uccidere Kennedy.Impareggiabile DeLillo fa di Oswald un Forrest Gump in negativo che attraversa l'universo - America, detrito fra i detriti.Meraviglioso poi lo Stabat mater  finale.
- Quando è il tuo compleanno?- Il diciotto ottobre, - rispose Lee.- Libra. La Bilancia.- Sì, la Bilancia, - disse Ferrie- L'Equilibrio, - disse Shaw.Quelli della bilancia. Alcuni sono positivi, padroni di sé, equilibrati, con la testa a posto, saggi e rispettati da tutti. Altri invece sono negativi, cioè piuttosto instabili, impulsivi. Tanto, ma tanto, ma tanto influenzabili. Propensi a spiccare il salto pericoloso. In entrambi i casi, la chiave è l'equilibrio. A volte finisci dei libri e non è
Come mai tutte le persone che entrarono in contatto con lui negli ultimi mesi della sua vita morirono pochi anni dopo?
De Lillo intreccia ai fatti reali sulla vita di Oswald gli eventi fittizi che darebbero vita a un grande complotto per assassinare il presidente e far pensare che Oswald fosse stato inviato da Cuba, e alimentare quindi una nuova invasione dell'isola dopo il fallimento della Baia dei Porci.
E noi, ancora oggi, non sappiamo quale sia la verità.Ma Lee Harvey Oswald era anche il ragazzo che ha saputo amare con tutto se stesso come qualsiasi essere umano.
E Lee Harvey Oswald o coloro che sono rimasti nell'ombra l'hanno distrutto.
Lastly, I remember purchasing this book for my father when it came out back in 1988, back when I was reading book reviews voraciously – I don’t think he ever read it and I’m guessing the first edition hardback is gathering dust somewhere (and I have asked him now to find / read it – I intend to retrieve that original for my own collection!).I did not debate with myself much in giving this top rating because, in total, it is highly entertaining and artfully arranged and written.
DeLillo must have delighted when he realized the truth of the history is best told in novel form, since reality (alas) will never be known by mankind.
L'impatto non è altro che l'evoluzione di un percorso partito tempo prima, effetto sulla stecca, deviazioni di sponde, abilità e strategia del giocatore, posizione iniziale delle bocce.
L'impatto che si osserva è l'epilogo.Come ci si è arrivati, a quell'impatto?Questa è la domanda che si è fatto DeLillo con questo intrigante libro.Il tempo è il 22 novembre del 1963.
Forse.Come ci è arrivato lì, un uomo come Lee Oswald?
Quest'uomo è stato abilmente manovrato magari affascinandolo con l'idea di essere ricordato nei libri di scuola come l'uomo che uccise il presidente degli Stati Uniti d'America?De Lillo si fa la domanda.
Kennedy – um estudo sobre os homens que moldaram a história, num relato sobre os acontecimentos trágicos que ocorreram em Dallas, na manhã de 22 de Novembro de 1963.
Uma escrita complexa e intimista sobre as forças e os detalhes que criaram as motivações para a concretização de um acto radical por parte de Lee Harvey Oswald – tornando-se num “peão” das várias teorias da conspiração sobre o assassinato de Presidente dos Estados Unidos da América.
472) “Libra” – título inspirado no signo astrológico (Balança) de Oswald - é um excelente livro de ficção escrito a partir de material e informação factual sobre um dos acontecimentos mais trágicos da História Mundial - o assassinato de John F.

“Non è soltanto Kennedy come persona, è quello che gli altri vedono in lui.
Cazzo, come mi dà fastidio solo guardarlo!”.L’America descritta dalla letteratura, l’America di allora e quella venuta dopo.
E Kennedy, il suo omicidio, come spartiacque, a delimitare, segnare un fallimento, il crollo di una speranza.
Bowling for Columbine… Il dopo Kennedy, “il Rapporto Warren” sull’omicidio, 26 corposi volumi che non aggiungono nulla alla verità storica.
Questo è il libro joyciano dell’America, ricordalo… è un documento troppo importante dell’ansia e della confusione umana, per venir disprezzato o ignorato”.L’America è Dallas?
Dallas è la dimostrazione fatta città che Dio è davvero morto.
Somewhere along the line I got this notion in my head that DeLillo wasn't for me.
I have no idea how that got lodged in my head, but it could not be more wrong.
In Libra he tells the tale of how Lee Harvey Oswald came to shoot JFK in 1963.
It's told in the type of "jump cut" style more common to film.
His is not so much a theory of what actually happened as a tale with closure served up as a kind of dressing to cover this historical wound.----------------------------------------------------WORDS I LEARNED WHILE READING THIS BOOKprelapsarian | panatela | shvartzer
Spoilers -- kind of....This is a really great book -- for most of it, I really loved this -- partially because I'm an assassination buff, but also because there's a taut intelligence and poetry in much of the writing, and also (I thought, at least) some really sublime characterization and lots of Plot MoMo. The treatment of David Ferrie -- for example when he meets with Carmine ....
And found him to be a moving, sensitive, very mortal writer -- writing about very moving and mortal things.That said -- there were all through certain very subtle hints of weakness - very subtle -- DeL.
“Libra” é uma obra de ficção que ensaia uma teoria sobre o assassinato do Presidente Kennedy e que tenta, de forma incansável, responder à pergunta – Quem era Lee Harvey Oswald?
“Libra” parece ser ainda uma tentativa para contrariar as inúmeras incoerências do Relatório da Comissão Warren, sobretudo sobre Oswald, apresentando ao leitor um homem com aparentes convicções férreas mas que perante a contrariedade se encolhe e busca um novo objectivo menos incómodo.
The engine runs on glue and tar…“Let’s devote our lives to understanding this moment, separating the elements of each crowded second.
We will build theories that gleam like jade idols, intriguing systems of assumption, four-faced, graceful.
We will follow the bullet trajectories backwards to the lives that occupy the shadows, actual men who moan in their dreams.”There is a system and there are those who serve it.
There are cats and there are cat’s paws.
“There is a world inside the world.” Movers and shakers live among us but they abide in the invisible world of their own.
Preamble.A few days after finishing Libra, I went out for drinks with a good friend/DeLillo-aficionado and naturally a heated discussion ensued.
Literary truth is entirely a matter of wording and is directly proportional to the energy that one is able to impress on the sentence.In this brief paragraph, Ferrante perfectly encapsulates the issue I took with Libra.
If DeLillo wrote the novel for a primarily American audience—which I suspect was the case—he would've been able to count upon a certain set of common beliefs and experiences w/r/t his readers.
Conoscevo poco della storia del delitto Kennedy e da questa visione non sono stata aiutata.
So cosa vuol dire affrontare De Lillo, so che quell'uomo sembra sia pagato per non rendere la vita facile al lettore.
Raccontando la storia non dei Kennedy ma di Oswald, uomo incolpato della morte di JFK.
E l'ordito immaginato da De Lillo appare al lettore una possibilità non solo ammissibile ma proprio verosimile.
I fatti, le persone, che si stringono intorno ad un uomo, che appare essere suo malgrado, la persona giusta per interpretare una parte.
Jack Ruby, uccisore di Oswald, altro uomo, altra nota stonata."Una stonatura nell’aria."Intro.
(cue Baudrillard’s “desert of the real.”) Those bits are the instruction manual of how to read the novel: calendar chapters are criminal who is put away for study, but with a maternal insistence that he’s just a good boy, never meant any harm; holy occupant chapters trace back to the shadowy unsavories in the CIA, the anti-castro ex-pat groups, and so on.
Cute refrain throughout the LHO bits wherein he constantly compares himself to Trotsky: e.g., “Trotsky brushing roaches off the page, reading economic theory in a hovel in eastern Siberia, exiled with his wife and baby girl” (312), paralleling LHO’s domestic situation.As for the actual JFK conspiracism, the opening premise is that some CIA thugs wanted to do a false flag near-miss on JFK: “We couldn’t hit Castro.
Another character suggests that Oswald, who thinks that he wants to enter history, really wants *out* of history: he doesn't want to be a concrete thing, he wants to be a symbol.
And that's what the historical novel, and narrative art more generally, offers us: some way to understand the messiness of 'history', to burrow under the symbols and decontextualized factoids.
Art suggests and plays with what we don't know--here, LHO's personality, wishes and dreams on the one hand, and a possible conspiracy on the other.
In other words, the historical novel and conspiracy theories do much the same thing: they try to contextualize symbols, to ground them in history, in the things we don't know.
The facet DeLillo investigates in this historical crime (the murder of President Kennedy) is the power of plot.
Lee Oswald did not work alone.
There is a whole facet of the crime that keeps jabbing at the ‘lonesome’ aspect of the murder.
Lee did not work alone.
This novel does not only concentrate on the crime.
He knew what he was doing; if he is a victim, he is also a murderer; he could have worked harder for a better life rather than be dragged in a context he thought was his.
Epic poems are wearisome, Poe said. This is a work of genius - but I'm relieved to be done.
DeLillo, maybe in an attempt to avoid sounding like a sympathizer, takes an emotional distance to LHO (and virtually every character within) that allows no strong reader engagement.
This may be a clever trick if there were some character play here, but it seems like DeLillo is as indifferent to all of the cast as the reader feels with no real meta-fictional pranks here.But, as stated above, it is a fun thought experiment--creating a cohesive and whole conspiracy around a man who is kind of an American myth in his own right.
Kennedy--"the seven seconds that broke the back of the American century." Richly-detailed chapters alternate between telling the story of Oswald's life while we watch the assassination plot being formed by disgruntled CIA agents and exiled Cubans, angry about the debacle that was the Bay of Pigs.
He wanted to be a hero but his name will always be associated with that of the assassin he so hated.And to add further complexity to the plot, in the present day, a man named Nicholas Branch, a retired government agent, has been given the task of sifting through all the mountains of data and evidence to compile a book for the Agency about what 'really happened.' He is struck by all the coincidences and muses about their 'endless suggestiveness.'I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in historical fiction.
Most people don't like playing with known history facts but its done with so such skill, the getting into Oswald head his serious nature, but living in a fantasy world with his limited skills a Russian wife with the American dream that he can't provide for his leftist political ideals.
in spite of the murdering of the president of the united states you get the feeling this guy can't get a break he's like beaten dog.
The other character who may or may not be a real person or based on a real person the CIA agent who is looking at the events after they transpire.
