https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77594.Before_Midnight
A five hundred thousand dollar prize is being offered by "Pour Amor" perfume. All the reader has to do is find the five cosmetic-using women described in a series of five quatrains. But then the author of the five quatrains ends up dead, and a paper containing the solution is missing. Nero Wolfe is hired--not to solve the murder--but to find out what happened to the paper. And for once, he and Cramer can work together amicably. A particularly good entry in this continuing series.
The number of contestants was reduced to five people who had to solve five riddles created by a young promising employee by the advertising agency who also had a copy of the answers.
Nero Wolfe is hired by the agency to find out who took the answers worth a fortune.
I am proud to say I was able to stay slightly ahead of Nero Wolfe and way ahead of Archie Goodwin in solving the mystery, but only during the initial stages.
~Archie Goodwin (a man after my own heart--substitute beautiful men for the maidens, however) Archie Goodwin never dreamed he'd wake up one morning to find four men from Lippert, Buff, & Assa (LBA), the advertising company which handles Pour Amour, would show up on the brownstone's doorstep the day after he'd shown the perfume's ad to Nero Wolfe.
But there they were, in living color, on the other side of the one-way glass panel in the door, clamoring to come in and see Wolfe before he was due to finish in the plant rooms.LBA has been running a promotional million dollar (total prizes) contest for Pour Amour that has involved contestants solving clues, offered five quatrains, which point to the identity of famous cosmetic-using women.
So the advertising execs do what any reasonably person would do: they head straight for the office of Nero Wolfe and hire him to figure out who took the list of answers, and to find a way to resolve the contest.
Or at least one, anyway.The contestants are quite a hoot as well: the incomparably ugly founder of the Women's Nature League, a smugly superior (and unjustifiably despondent) history professor, an undernourished but surprisingly self-possessed housewife, a sassy researcher with a phalanx of silent supporters, and a man who looks like Old King Cole.
When a brilliant though brash and arrogant marketing man is found murdered in his apartment and his wallet stolen, five colourful contestants for a half million dollar competition prize are the obvious suspects.
After all, the dead man wrote all the questions, and his wallet contained the answers, a fact which he had foolishly made them aware of.
Wolfe is hired by the three senior members of the marketing firm to find out who stole the answers and to solve their publicity problem but not, as he constantly points out to Crammer and the cops, to find the murderer.
A perfume company is running a contest and the five finalists have been flown to New York for the final puzzles. But the person in charge of the questions and answers has been murdered and the list of answers he had is missing. Wolfe is hired, not to solve the murder, but to find out who took the answer sheet. Of course, he does solve the murder, but not until someone dies in his study, during an all-suspect meeting. I like the conversation Wolfe has with one of the contestants, a professor - very entertaining.
****.This was a cleverly plotted Nero Wolfe novel where Wolfe and his personal assistant Archie Goodwin are hired on by an advertising firm to determine if the results of a contest they were running for their clients were compromised by one of their employees.
The advertising firm was in charge of a contest for one of their clients, a cosmetics manufacturer.
All five entrants were given the clues at the same time by the firm’s “poet.” When he had handed them the clues, he then took out a piece of paper from his wallet and waved it in front of them.
Maybe it's because the listening to this audio book was so interrupted; it seemed like every time I'd get into the story someone would just have to talk to me, or the phone would ring.
However, the case just didn't engage me.
That's not so bad; Wolfe didn't care for it, either.
In my experience, these publicity stunts are often fixed from the get-go, in any case.
However, it's not surprising that this case has never been filmed, to my knowledge.
ETA: 17/12/16 I just listened to it again because I couldn't remember anything about it until I got into the audiobook again.
This Nero Wolfe adventure is a mixed bag: the initial idea of Wolfe getting embroiled in a perfume contest is great, especially as there is a murder but he has to convince Cramer and others he is not interested in the murder aspect of the case (truly) - then, though, the story really screeches to a halt toward the middle during the "interviewing suspects" phase.
This one may suffer from too many characters, though the spread is likely necessary to deflect suspicion and add to the consternation of it all, especially for Wolfe who has a dickens of a time figuring this one out.
That consternation toward the end, though, takes this story to very intriguing and new directions for a Wolfe adventure.
Of course it another "A" from me from my favorite mystery author and his inimitable creations Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
New questions will be given to them with a deadline to submit their answers.
The creator of the quiz waves a paper at the contestants at a dinner and tells them that it contains the answers and returns it to his wallet.In true Stout style, he is murdered and his wallet is missing.
the company is in an uproar and come to Wolfe to find out who stole the answers.
Highly recommended from the world's most fanatic Nero Wolfe fan.
I re-read (re-listened to actually) today and enjoyed it as much as I did in the past.Nero Wolfe books are in many ways very comforting to read: there is seldom any real violence, no sex, no political correctness,no bad language: just a fairly honest mystery whose setting is appropriate to the time it was written.---This book is nearly entirely set in Nero Wolfe's house (as are most) and is devoid of any physical action.
In this particular book a murder occurs in his own house, which gives Archie and Wolfe a kick in the head.
wolfe is a fat gourmande who loves orchids and has his detecting legwork done by his assistant, archie goodwin, who also narrates the novel's action, and in some ways, wolfe and goodwin form two halves of one perfect detective.
things i liked about this novel: how saucy archie was in his narration, the loyalty and the test of loyalty between wolfe and goodwin echoed in the plot, the plan for a big reveal at a dinner party that is thwarted by a murder under wolfe's own nose, subverting that standard in detective fiction.
Standard Stout crime drama, but perhaps a little less charming and more convoluted than most. Abandoning a promising set of characters at the half-way point was a shame, and replacing them with cookie-cutter corporate was very odd. Still, pleasant easy reading.
This is my 5th reading over many years of Rex Stout. I especially enjoy when Saul Panzer, Orie Cather, Fred Durkin arrive to resolve difficulties. Bill Gore didn't last. Thanks to my wife for hooking me up to Nero Wolfe some forty years ago.
I'm still confused. Wolf lied to Archie but didn't and he told everyone that he didn't do something, but he did. Yeah, he exposed a murderer at the end, but that wasn't his job. What a story!
A foreword by Robert Crais illustrating the relationship between the two made it all the more enjoyable.In Rex Stout’s novel “Before Midnight,” Wolfe is hired by an ad agency to find out who stole a wallet containing the answers of a perfume contest worth a million dollar-prize from the dead contest creator, and find a way that the murder and theft doesn’t compromise the contest between the remaining five finalists.

From page one this mystery pulled me right in. Nero Wolfe is hired to find out which of five finalists in a contest stole the answers worth half a million dollars (and incidentally the man murdered when the answers disappeared). The personalities are classic Stout—individual and interesting. And the challenge is just the sort of impossible task Wolfe thrives on. This one is great right up until the moment when we find out who the murderer was. I don’t disagree with the murderer’s identity, but the solution wasn’t as satisfying as I’ve come to expect from Stout.
Especially good for readers who revel in the relationship between Archie and Wolfe--in this one Wolfe is at his most frustrated, and Archie is wonderfully just-barely-tolerant. At what is intended to be the big finish, in which all the suspects and police are gathered in Wolfe's office for his laying out of the case, one of the characters is poisoned before everyone's eyes. Wolfe is so affronted at the lack of respect and decorum that he can hardly cope.
Good mystery, with the right amount of humor. It's a relatively short novel, like a Perry Mason, but not as intricate; not as many plot twists and clues. It involves an advertising contest, murder of an advertising executive, and missing contest answers from the victim's wallet. This was my first Nero Wolfe novel; Ellery Queen is still my favorite, but I will probably read more Rex Stout.
Fifty years later I still enjoy his booksWhen I was a teenager, Back in the 1960s, I read and enjoyed every Rex Stout book in my public library. Fifty some years later, reading them again, I find them still entertaining, logical, complex, and true to the era in which Nero Wolfe and Archie lived.
It's been a while since I've spent time with Archie and Nero Wolfe, and I'd forgotten ever having read this one ... the last third is a bit more subtle and cerebral and winding than usual, but has the added advantage of getting Wolfe out of the brownstone. Stout's always a good read!
Better than Black Mountain, but not among my favorites. This one is a little odd--Wolfe doesn't actually do much, which means Archie Goodwin doesn't do much. There is an enormous amount of arguing, so the story is a little on the hysterical side.
Nero and Archie are not trying to to find a murderer, but the person who stole the answers to a highly publicized perfume contest with prizes totaling over a million dollars. However, the culprit may also possibly be a murderer, inciting Cramer's irritation.
I like an ending without buttresses added on, but it was good.
One of the best Rex Stout’s Nero Wolfe books that I’ve read. Enjoyed reading the legal letters at the end of the book from his publishers.
Good, though I had trouble keeping characters straight.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
Another outstanding NW mystery. The riddles and literary allusions were an extra bit of fun!
