https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183586.The_Cruel_Sea
The hateful struggle, to be effective, demanded one hundred percent from many millions of individual people; death was in this category of demand, and, lower down the list, the cancellation of humanity was an essential element of the total price.”-	Nicholas Monsarrat, The Cruel SeaThe Cruel Sea is the greatest war novel of all time.
The Cruel Sea tells the story of a corvette called the HMS Compass Rose.
Monsarrat follows the Compass Rose and her crew as they head out to sea to battle Nazi U-Boats and storms and fatigue and boredom and tension.
Anyhow, the crew come together on a miserable scow of a corvette Compass Rose they are assigned to escort conveys, across the Atlantic to St Johns , Newfoundland, once to Mumansk, once disastrously to Gibraltar , once to New York leading to the usual complaints about the Americans (view spoiler)[ they are loud, brash and have terrible food and worse manners  (hide spoiler)], en-route they also complain about the neutrality of the Irish, and about the French who they suspect for the sake of love would happily change sides, the Dutch and Norwegians are reckoned to be ok though (view spoiler)[ in this the book confirms to the classic British late imperial hierarchy of the nations  (hide spoiler)].
First Lieutenant Lockhart is clearly based on Monsarrat own experiences in the war, serving on small escort ships for the Atlantic convoys.
One that is largelly succesful, combining technical details about the ships - small corvettes in the beginning and more powerful frigates in the later stages - with strategies and tactical evaluations of the implications behind the numbers of ships or submarines sunk, and most of all showing the effects on the humans caught in this grinding machine.
The sailors who engaged in convoy escorts do not need to be lionized, their actions speak for themselves, and the book reads best when the author stops editorializing or myth building and limits his presentation to the actual events he probably witnessed.
There are so many good things to say about this novel.
War brought out the best in some of the men, like Lockhart.
The author states in the beginning that the story is about two ships, so I knew Compass Rose was going to sink.
(hide spoiler)]My only complaint was that the ending wasn’t quite as good as the beginning and the middle.
I never cared as much about the crew of Saltash as I did about the crew of Compass Rose (other than the men who were on both).
The action over the last part was a bit like the Battle of the Atlantic .
Unlike all of my previous reading adventures at sea this one does not take place during the Napoleonic Era but covers England's WWII years from 1939 to 1945.
The book is fiction and covers the life of a convoy escort ships in the Royal Navy.
In a later portion of the book the captain and the first officer become much more the focus and center of the action as the nature of the war has evolved as these two officer note with regret.
My friend described leaving port with scores of other ships in a convoy that might cover 20 miles of ocean.
The best 2nd World War novel I've read.
I felt to be living through those years, sharing all the experiences described – whether at sea on a corvette and then a frigate or on land.
Masterly character studies throughout.I kept thinking of Moby Dick whilst reading this.
Both set at sea of course and the various crews are closely observed in each.
The capains couldn't be more different - Ahab in Moby Dick and Ericson here.
Perhaps it is the fight against the elements and the U Boat (Moby Dick)?
This is so entirely believable it is hard to accept as a work of fiction.
Monsarrat created a set of characters on a British warship who, throughout the Second World War, I came to deeply care about. THOSE MEN BECAME SO REAL TO ME. I HURT WHEN THEY HURT. CELEBRATED WHEN THEY SURVIVED YET ANOTHER PATROL, be it on the North Atlantic or in the waters on or above the Arctic Circle (escorting merchant ships carrying goods to the USSR).
This is an exceptional book of World War 2 and of the sea. With deep authenticity derived from the author's own experiences, and conveyed through unpretentious but powerful prose, the story and characters are brilliantly drawn. Through the initial fitting out of one of the first corvettes, through travails on the high seas, tragedy and small triumph, this is a book that is difficult to put aside.
It would seem that the technology has changed but the fundamentals of the Royal Navy and the demands of running a ship of war haven't changed, if you can rely on O'Brian's historical portrayal.The history of WWII in general outline drawn here should seem familiar; losing until the U.S.A drop neutrality, then clawing back on to even terms and after D-Day slowly struggling to victory; it's not really interesting in this regard.
And yet for all that this is more passionate, more engaging, and more tension-filled than many a thriller.Primarily concerned with life at sea, this doesn't completely ignore the home front, but sees it primarily in terms of the impact home lives have on the men at war.
As a female reader I never felt excluded from this narrative, made up as it is of overwhelmingly masculine characters, and wasn't hit with technical sea-faring terms or the names of different types of ship body parts...
Monsarrat clearly knows what he's talking about, and the story of the bravery of those men who protected the Atlantic Convoy from the German u-Boat "Wolf Packs" is one full of long periods of boredom interspersed with terrible, sudden tragedy.
It's difficult really to say too much without giving the whole game away, but one sequence during which a boat is sunk and the officers try to keep the men active and awake during the icy night in order to preserve their lives in anticipation of rescue at first light is amongst some of the best writing I've ever read.
The Cruel Sea is the story of the crew of a newly commissioned corvette, Compass Rose, a ship that forms part of the escort to merchant convoys during World War II.
The crew are mostly inexperienced men from non-naval backgrounds and the story focuses on their differing reactions to the horrifying experiences they have as German U-boats attack their convoys with increasing success.
It brings home the realities of the longest battle in the second world war, the Battle for the Atlantic, but it does so not through harrowing depiction of the horrors involved, but through its detailed depiction the people involved, people we come to care about, to admire, and to mourn.
Actually, it's the only Monsarrat book that really works for me as entertainment.
Is it a "Masterpiece?" Maybe.Monsarrat writes with a staid, formal "British" prose, somewhat at odds with the occasional typos in my paperback copy and Monsarrat's livelier characters and occasional violent fighting action.
The novel is more a character study than a rousing action tale, and Monsarrat repeatedly indulges in foreshadowing.
The real hero of this novel is not Lockhart, the executive officer for both the first doomed ship, and also the exec of the later ship.
The hero is the British navy.The only real villains are the sea and the war.
This tells the story of the gallant corvette the Compass Rose and later the Saltash, and those who sailed upon them.
I really enjoy these themes of battling against the elements with near impossible odds, and this novel delivers in that department.
I enjoyed the story more when the Compass Rose took centre stage.
I felt that the crew who sailed on her were better presented, and the Compass Rose took on a life of her own.
Wonderful descriptions of ship life under very adverse and trying conditions and the sea, the cruel sea......well you felt you were on the decks of the Compass Rose battling the mighty Atlantic.
The novel chronicles their harrowing life at sea and also details the difficulties of leadership.Most of the maritime books I've read about this era have been by submariners (I occasionally, accidentally found myself thinking from their perspective), so this was a treat for me.
Also, many of the books I've read about naval warfare during WWII have been either German or American, so the British point of view was of great interest to me.
(Especially enjoyable was their perspective on the Americans, during an interlude in NYC circa 1944).Great book.
A novel that exposes the mercilessness of the North Atlantic U-Boat war. Monsarrat gives life to the relentless character of both enemies -- man and nature. Arguably the best novel of war at sea.
Situations where every action, every decision, is absolutely right regardless of the judgments that may be imposed after the fact, in a relative calm, or in a comparative sanctuary of safety.This book focuses on humans that are thrown into war from their peacetime lives.
And the defenders are transformed into machines that are virtually unaware of the hatred that they display.The book serves to bring to life the historical accounts of the war, but it also opens up parallels that exist in our current lives.
However, even with these flaws, this book still stands on its own, offering insights into life at the extremes of human existence.
Perhaps it was a gain, perhaps it was a loss; when he took Hands Fall In each morning, and looked down a long double line of eighty seamen whom he barely knew by sight and would not have recognized ashore, Lockhart sometimes regretted the intimate past, and the feeling, which he had had in Compass Rose, that this was a family matter, not a parade.
But possibly the gain was in efficiency, which was always liable to be a cold-blooded matter.
For those who like books glorifying war, this is not for you. Rather it is the tail of men against the sea and a determined enemy. It is about boredom, terror, and doing the job. It is a sailor’s view of war, but you need not be a sailor to enjoy it. Set in the Atlantic throughout World War II, it traces a Captain and his Number One from 1939 through 1945. The real star of the novel is however in the title, the Cruel Sea.
Some books are, of course, outstanding, but the bulk of them, the childrens' books and the fictions read in a day, are lost to memory.
Reconstructing my reading experiences before college is difficult.Therefore it was an unusual and happy occasion earlier today when Martin walked with me to the Park Ridge Library booksale and I espied a copy of Monsarrat's The Cruel Sea, a novel Dad had had and which I had read sometime in childhood.
Other, much more recently read books, particularly popular fiction, I recall nothing of except the covers.
This book is one of those, in print.
Or in this case, the Cruel Sea. And, you know, Jerry.That's this book: Cartoonish characters and dialogue; OK action sequences; a lot of heroic Posing & Musing; possibly the worst romance ever set in print.
There was a lot of this kind of stuff written after the war, much of which I read when I was 13 or so, when I had exhausted the SF section of the Armstrong Public Library.
The settings varied, from Pacific jungles to the North African desert to in this case North Atlantic convoy shipping.

Along with the Caine Mutiny, this is considered by many as the great sea novel of World War II. It's truly outstanding, written by a former Royal Navy officer who drew on his own harrowing adventures for the basic narrative. It's remarkable the author survived the war, and the story he tells is remarkable too, not just for its plot, but with its frank depiction of the whole range of emotions he and his men felt - from rare boredom to outright fea - and the very human way in which they dealt with them.
This is a memoir written as fiction. It is gripping and a page turner. This is an all time favorite of mine. I love the movie as well.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:The Cruel Sea is the story of the crew of a newly commissioned corvette, Compass Rose, a ship that forms part of the escort to merchant convoys during World War II.
Two of the scariest moments of my life.So reading a book about large ships in sub-zero temperatures, two thousand miles from the nearest land and three thousand fathoms from the sea bed, written over 60 years ago- for all sorts of reasons, wasn't pushing itself massively in front of my nose to be read.And it's a long book - the version I had looked quite thin, but the pages were wafer like, with possibly the smallest type I've ever seen apart from the times I've done "useability" testing on websites, and progress seemed interminable...The first hundred or so pages seemed attritional, to put it mildly.
Above all, it would live in naval tradition, and become legend, because of its crucial service to an island at war, its price in sailors’ lives and its golden prize – the uncut lifeline to the sustaining outer world.”The Cruel Sea - published in 1951 - is every bit as legendary of a novel as the war in which Nicholas Monsarrat wrote, honoring the brave men, and women, caught in the ferocity of both the battle against German U-boats and the sea itself.
And sometimes the thing was in terms still cruder: sometimes the blood was thicker than the water.”Certainly, “The Cruel Sea” is pulse-pounding, heroic, heart-wrenching, bloody, frightful, and brave.
Their story is one of physical and psychological endurance; the horrors of the war in the Atlantic from the position of the British naval convoy escorts and their impact on the men who were not killed is Monsarrat's theme.Like all books about the horrors of war, The Cruel Sea makes me wonder whether any cause is worth the suffering it causes; this question is one which Monsarrat's characters would certainly answer in the affirmative (at least, most of the time).
Nicholas Monsarrat himself had a navy career like Lockhart in WW II so he writes from experience.The book is about the hardship of the war in the Atlantic.
It shows the struggle in the first few years and the great losses of ships and lives before the tide turns and the allies get the upper hand.
For those who are not discouraged by nautical terms and technical talk, which you will get used to after a while, this book will provide a first-hand account of a lesser-known part of WW II.
There’s an authenticity to it that is evident throughout the pages and I found myself reading many of the set pieces thinking that it was written from genuine experience.
Monserrat also tries to tackle the emotional brutality of the conflict too and uses stories about shore leave from the ships to do it.
If there is one weak point in the book it is that Monserrat undoubtedly understands the company of men, but I found his portrayal of women a bit clichéd and shallow.
The war shattered a lot more than just bodies and ships.If stories about men and war interest you, then this book is up there with the best of them.
