https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16366.Endless_Night
WILLIAM BLAKEنخستین خوانش: ماه ژانویه سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: شب بی پایان؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی (میلر)؛ مترجم: رکسانا یغمائی؛ شیراز، نوید شیراز، 1370؛ در 169 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای پلیسی کارآگاهی از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 معنوان: شب بی پایان؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی (میلر)؛ مترجم: مجتبی عبدالله نژاد؛ تهران، هرمس (کارآگاه)، 1380؛ در 278 ص؛ شابک: 9647100485؛ چاپ دوم 1384؛ چاپ سوم 1387؛ شابک: 9789647100489؛ چاپ پنجم 1393؛ هر شبانگاه و هر سپیده دمانپا گذارند مردمی به جهانکه بود سهمشان غم و حرمانهر شبانگاه و هر سپیده دمانپا گذارند مردمی به جهانعده ای را نصیب شادی و شور، عده ای را شبان بی پایانویلیام بلیکچاپ نخستین از این داستان: شب بی پایان، آگاتا کریستی، در سال 1967 میلادی و در 224 ص، در کلوب کالینز کرایم لندن بوده است؛ داستان جوانی به نام: مایکل روجرز را بازگو می‌کند، که با دختر ثروتمندی آشنا شده، و با او ازدواج می‌کند.
In my end is just my beginning...After reading A LOT of Agatha Christie novels in the past, ENDLESS NIGHT- I would have to say- is one of her best, and very different from her others...[image error]The story is narrated by Michael Rogers- a charming attractive young man- who is a bit of a loner.
The house is in shambles, he has no money, and he has been warned Gipsy Acre is cursed- quite few who have lived there...have also died there.
He has the girl, more money than he could have imagined, and as Santonix promised- a breathtaking house on Gipsy Acre.
I usually read Agatha Christie to unwind, and although they always guarantee a highly enjoyable hour filled with chuckles and gasps, there is an element of 'lightness' and dismissal involved. Well, that serves me right. This book smacked the patronizing smirk right off my face and I'm drooling on the floor, well and truly humbled. Written lightly, as always, but for the first time, the weight of evil - the kind of evil that wears perfume, goes shopping and is grumpy in the morning - makes its presence softly, sweetly known. Yours truly is humbled, chilled and very impressed.
The novels featuring Miss Marple have quite a different feel, so this is an odd inclusion.Unusually for Agatha Christie, Endless Night has a single viewpoint character, who has a heavy presence in the novel as its narrator.
He also appears to the reader to have a chip on his shoulder, and is quite a many-layered character.Very early on in the story, we learn that he has fallen in love with a painting of a house, and has idealised this in his mind to be a "perfect house" which he dreams of owning.
قرأت الكثير لإغاثة كريستي ولكن هذه الرواية شعرت انها طويلة حدا وباحداث قليلة.وتوقعت النهاية طبعا او على الأقل عرفت القاتل.مذكرات لزوج يحب ان يأخذ مل سيّء بدون اَي جهد يريد الغنى وهو شاب ولا يريد حتى ان يلتزم بعمل ما.من الطبيعي ان تعرف القاتل
Dame Agatha was already in decline due to dementia when, in six short weeks, she flowered this novel.
That is why I give it four stars.The story is unremarkable, and in lesser hands would be a tedious oft-told tale.
But stop a moment when you feel your eyes start to roll and hold this thought: One of mystery fiction's greats (like her work or not, she was indeed a great writer) wrote this, her last lucid writing, before sliding down a slope we all hope we'll never see up close.Join The Guardian's group read if you have never read this tale before.
My thoughts on my re-read: http://crimebythebook.com/blog/2017/8...Absolutely loved my re-read of this book!!! I've considered it my favorite Christie read for years now, but was long overdue for a re-read. Happy to report it's just as brilliant (and chilling) as I remember it.
Endless Night is quite different than Agatha Christie's Poirot or Marple series.
He is fascinated with Gipsy's Acre - a plot of land in rural England that is said to be cursed by the Gypsies who once lived there and who were driven away.While walking around the property that has come up for sale, he meets an attractive young American woman, Ellie.
Most of Agatha Christie's books can best be described as cracking thrillers.
3.5/5 stars! (view spoiler)[I did really enjoy this book, but I felt like Christie was just recycling plot twists from her former books. The love triangle situation reminded me of the one in "Death on the Nile" and the whole unreliable narrator thing was so similar to "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd". (hide spoiler)]
This novel is quite different from any other work of Agatha Christie. The beginning is slow and the reader has to make too much effort to stay glued. It becomes increasingly difficult till first half of the novel to make sense of what is happening. Then Christie's brilliance kicks in. The last few pages are the best that I have ever read in any of Christie's novels. A blockbuster novelIncidentally Bollywood flick Aar Ya Paar was loosely based on this novel
Every morn and every night,Some are born to sweet delight.Every morn and every night,Some are born to endless night. When people mention Agatha Christie to me, I always think about a woman writing murder mysteries. You know those: Someone is killed and another someone wants to figure out who's the responsible for that death. Getting into gothic passages, though, is not something I imagined her to do.More than 60% of this book consists on getting to know our narrator Michael - Mike - Rogers. He'
That's when he meets Ellie, decides to marry her in secret, and starts his life in Gipsy's Acre, a place the villagers are afraid of because of urban legends that say it's cursed.But of course, our charming protagonist does not believe in the legends, and too late does he realise the warnings people gave to his wife were real.I'm completely aware I'm kind of spoiling more than half the book, but you really have to trust me when I say the very important parts of the book happen after 75% of it.
The last fifth of Endless Night was really good!
Not so good.This novel reads like a gothic romance horror soap opera...so, a little like the old Dark Shadows tv show.
It feels like Endless Night is trying to turn that on its head.
And perhaps that was the intent, but the publication date puts this past the point where this idea would've been cutting edge.My other theory was that Christie was trying to get with the times and create more meaningful characterization.
Endless Night certainly spends a lot of time in the mind of the narrator.
I suppose what it comes down to is, Endless Night is Christie's attempt at a psychological thriller and it didn't quite work.
I didn’t know that when it happened it would happen quite suddenly.
‘I’ve been in love once and if I felt it coming on again I tell you I’d emigrate.’ It was the same with me.
If I had known, if I had only known what it could all come to mean I’d have emigrated too!
If I’d been wise, that is."Endless Night is one of Dame Agatha's lesser known novels.
I enjoyed every minute of being mislead by this story."In my end is my beginning…That’s a quotation I’ve often heard people say.
Choose Your Own Adventure!You: know a place!Where the grass is really greener!Warm, wet, and wildThere must be something in the water!You: could travel the world!But nuthin’ comes closeTo the golden coast!Once you party with herYou’ll be fallin’ in love!Oh-oh-oh oh oh ohhhIf you decide to follow love to its logical conclusion, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...If you decide that it is time to give up on love and just get out there and start partying, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
I have to say by about page 140 I was pretty much begging the gypsy lady (or anybody really) to DO something, but I persevered as I know that Agatha Christie is famous for her twists and turns.
The characters were well written and their characters were easily definable (although you do have 163 pages to sort this out).As I said before I love Agatha Christie's work and will not let this little disappointment stop me from reading more of her books.
(review in English below)Ver opinião relativa à releitura de 2018 aqui: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Primeira leitura (ca.
1983)Dos muitos policiais que li na minha adolescência, sobretudo a partir dos 15 anos e a maioria da colecção Vampiro - uma média de um por dia durante as férias de Verão - pouco me ficou.No entanto, este deixou marca, sobretudo à conta duma cena da qual nunca me esqueci.
Lembro-me de, na altura, ter ficado muito impressionada com a história e com o seu desfecho.
As 5 estrelas são devidas a isso.See review of my 2018 rereading here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...First reading (ca.
The tone is very un-Christie too, and Michael Roberts – the narrator in question – reminded me of some of Jim Thompson’s more gauche protagonists.
It’s a well set-up and delivered tale, although the ending – which I didn’t guess until I was almost upon it – does feel a tad too rushed and unconvincing.Part of me is quite fascinated by Dame Agatha’s oeuvre, as I find her work hypnotically compulsive even as the flaws scream out at me.
But here, those flaws aren’t as much in evidence (although when the dialogue begins, my of my, you can really tell that Christie is the author).
Oh. My. Goodness. This book was amazing!!!!! It was definitely Agatha Christie at her best. The ending was completely shocking. I never would've guessed it. Complete and total genius!
A lot of women killed one after another. The first 200 pages were boring... but when the first woman was killed, it started to become interesting. Not bad, but not so good either. 3.5 stars
She's taken one of her all-time most brilliant and shocking ideas (the narrator from The Murder of Roger Ackroyd) plus the gypsy's curse *and* the exact motivation behind it from her Miss Marple story "The Case of the Caretaker", mixed them together with Henry James' The Wings of the Dove...and it all adds up to Endless Night.
I know that Dame Agatha could not have expected her readers in 1967 to have a novel she wrote 40 years earlier AND one of her lesser-known short stories clearly in mind while reading Endless Night.
Well I think I just hit a new personal record. I needed to re-read this. Every bit as horrifically devastating as the first read. Yet I'm all the more horrified that I found myself to still have a teeny tiny crush on our horrid narrator. Ugh. Poor Ellie. :(
In fact, immersing yourself in a Christie novel is rather like slipping into a warm pool and being taken effortlessly on a journey – she is the most capable plotter and absolutely joyous to read.In this book we meet Michael Rogers; a rather shiftless young man, whose aimless lifestyle is about to change when he comes across the beautiful young Ellie outside a ruined house called ‘The Towers’, but known to local as Gipsy’s Acre.
Soon, Ellie has commissioned the building of their dream house on Gipsy’s Acre – even though both Michael and Ellie have been warned off by old Mrs Lee, who insists that the land has been cursed by gypsies, who were turned off the land.
Apesar de não estar a apreciar muito a escrita nem a narrativa, com conversa a mais para o meu gosto, o facto de saber o que ia acontecer manteve-me agarrada à leitura duma forma quase compulsiva.Este não é um policial típico.
Assim, e porque é possível atribuir classificações diferentes a leituras diferentes do mesmo livro, desta vez não posso dar mais do que 3 estrelinhas...I was feeling like reading something from Agathe Christie - or, rather, reread, since I've read several of her books in my teens, although I don't remember almost anything.I chose this one because there was this scene in my memory that didn't have anything to do, apparently, with the story told in the synopsis.
Sadly, this one didn't do it for me, and although it was an easy read and I finished it relatively quickly, I was not interested in what was happening and could not involve myself in any of the events taking place - which I must say, were little to close to none.
I admit, I did not see the end coming, and it was a great twist to an otherwise tedious story, but it wasn't enough for me to give it a higher rating.When a young man falls in love with a rich woman, with seemingly no ulterior motives, they quickly get married and build a house on what is known to be cursed Gypsy land.
Read for The Century Project - 1967.Full review on my blog here.Reread in 2017 for Halloween Bingo - square "In the Dark, Dark Woods."
3.5 starsI haven't actually read a lot of Agatha Christie's books but I know quite a few of the stories from watching Poirot and Miss Marple.
Also I recently read Murder on the Orient Express, The Mysterious Affair at Styles and a few others.
It feels more like a psychological thriller than a mystery/detective story.
More than half of the book focuses on Mike's (one of the main characters) thoughts and the story how he and Ellie got to know each other and married.
I did like the twists at the end though, so 3.5 stars.
⭐⭐⭐  ACCEPTABLE This is my first time reading Agatha Christie's book and:I like the writing sooooooo much.I like how well shaped the characters are and the dialogues are topnotch! Ihave a soft spot for good dialogues. But the mystery itself is the weakest part of this story. I feel cheated. And I'M SO UPSET WITH THE ENDING!Nevertheless, Agatha Christie was an amazing writer and I definitely want to read her other books.
Ένα από τα πιο πρωτότυπα και ιδιαίτερα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα της Κρίστι, το οποίο 'χτίζεται' γύρω από τις σχέσεις 3 ηρώων.
Η ατμόσφαιρα του βιβλίου είναι μυστηριακή, υπάρχουν έντονα στοιχεία ψυχολογικού, αλλά καί παραψυχολογικού θρίλερ (γίνονται έμμεσες και άμεσες αναφορές στη μαύρη μαγεία), ενώ σαν βασικό μειονέκτημα θα ανέφερα τον αργό ρυθμό της ιστορίας στο 1ο μέρος.
Το τέλος είναι ανατρεπτικό και αποζημιώνει, αν και από τη μέση του βιβλίου κάποιοι αναγνώστες μπορεί να αρχίζουν να υποπτεύονται την κατάληξη της ιστορίας.
Από τα πιο 'νουάρ' μυθιστορήματα της Κρίστι.
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. A stand alone novel that is more psychological study than mystery. This is one of Agatha Christie's favorites and I can see why. What starts out as a sort of analysis of class dynamics and the psychology of privilege turns into a very chilling exploration of madness.5 stars.
Fantástico.
