https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16361.The_Secret_of_Chimneys
It is, however, an enjoyable enough read for mystery fans who like a throwback.
It was interesting to read a Christie book with a detective other than Poirot.
The aforementioned dashing young drifter does most of the heavy lifting in that regard, and in this way the book reminded me of Dorothy Sayer's Lord Peter Wimsey series, the first book of which came out two years before The Secret of Chimneys.
Hm, very suspicious...With all the evidence laid out before us, I would deduce that what we have here is a perfectly fine read and anyone who's already a fan of Christie's will enjoy it, so I should think.
Finished it in one day. The amount of suspense and intrigue and the innumerable suspicious foreign characters had me racing through the pages. This was the first Superintendent Battle and he is the epitome of the British stiff upper lip- an impassive mask of a face in the most disastrous situations . The hero Anthony Cade with his nonchalant humor simply steals the show( I was reminded of Bertie Wooster of P.G.Wodehouse.). But the end left me with a tinge of disappointment. I sort of anticipated it. Still a highly enjoyable read and hats off to the Queen of Mysteries
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Culture Change: "The Secret of Chimneys” by Agatha Christie(Original Review, 1981-01-10)By the time she died, few people probably remembered the casual Antisemitism of Agatha Christie's early books (try “The Secret of Chimneys”); the prejudice had ceased to be fashionable, and she'd stopped expressing it. Chesterton's antisemitism was deeper, and maybe he'd have kept it up longer; but his basic good sense and kindness would surely have ruled that odious tic out, in a different age.
Christie gets to use he favourite Balkan country of Herzoslovakia and weave one of her better intrigues.Young Anthony Cade is in Africa, following his chosen life style of random adventuring when an old friend asks him to do a favour: Can he return to England in his place to deliver the memories of a dead man, and blackmail letters to a lady?
Modern readers who like reading the fun parts of recent history will enjoy the descriptions of clothes, daily life in an English country manor house and the customs in general.
I was really surprised to see that this review has an average rating of almost 4 stars.
I like most Agatha Christie books but when Christie deviates from her standard mysteries into political and international intrigue-type stories she doesn't do it well (see also "They Came to Baghdad" which I actually thought was better than this).
At multiple points I considered putting the book down and not finishing it.
I prevailed but really wish I hadn't wasted my time.I'll continue reading Christie but will try to avoid these types of books in the future.Props for the name though!
My first Agatha Christie book.Maybe I am exhilarated at the moment after finishing the book and gave it a four but personally there are a lot of things that bothered me a trifle such as the repeated references to Sherlock Holmes and some racial slurs. The reason might be the mindset of the people during her(Agatha Christie's)days. As expected from her,the twists and the turns in the last 50 pages or so kept me gripping. Her writing style is concise with a plot consisting of interesting characters like Superintendent Battle,Virginia Revel,etc. An enjoyable read throughout. 4/5
Anthony Cade agrees to undertake a commission for an old friend but he soon finds himself involved in something much more complex and more serious than he expected.
But all the plotting and planning leads the various protagonists to a complex denouement at a country house called Chimneys where Superintendent Battle and a man from the French police as well as various other people are set on finding out the truth.I found this quite a confusing narrative and I suspect I'm going to need to read it, or listen to it, again to fully understand the various ramifications of the plot.
Reference NotesSeries: Superintendent Battle #1 (1925)Narrator: (3rd person)Recurring Character: Lady Eileen "Bundle" Brent (Lord Caterham's daughter)Victims:Mr. Giuseppe Manelli (COD: gunshot)Prince Michael Obolovitch of Herzoslovakia (COD: gunshot)Suspects:Mr. James "Jimmy" McGrath (the man who sets everything in motion when he asks his friend Anthony to deliver Herzoslovakia's former Prime Minister Count Stylptitch's memoirs at the firm of publishers in London)Mr. Anthony Cade (Jimmy's friend who seems to have a remarkable knowledge about Herzoslovakia's history and politics)Clement Brent, Marquis of Caterham (owner of Chimneys, the stately home where Prince Michael is murdered)Hon. George Lomax (Lord Caterham's friend who's politically interested in Herzoslovakia) Mrs. Virgina Revel (widow of Mr. Tim Revel, a former English Ambassador to Herzoslovakia)Mr. Bill Eversleigh (Mr. Lomax's secretary who fancies himself in love with Mrs. Revel)Mr. Herman Isaacstein (representative of the all-British syndicate that's interested in prospecting oil in Herzoslovakia)Mr. Hiram Fish (the one guest at Chimneys who doesn't seem to have any connection with Herzoslovakia)Baron Lolopretjzyl (representative of the Loyalist party of Herzoslovakia, interested in restoring the monarchy in his country)Mr. Boris Anchoukoff (Prince Michael's valet)Cap. Andrassy (Prince Michael's equerry)Mlle.
(I have to blame this on my sis; she used to feed me Christie's stories when we were alone in our room at night with the lights turned off etc - and when images of dead bodies and children being murdered while bobbing for apples can be quite traumatising and scar one for life:D)Anyway, when my interest in Agatha Christie was rekindled some time back, I found myself picking up 'The Secret of Chimneys' as a starting point, wondering what I would find inside.
That's the best kind of book there is, don't you think?I understand now why Agatha Christie's stories are still in print, and voraciously read, after all this time.
The Secret of Chimneys is my final entry for the Cozy Mystery Challenge and I’m glad I ended with it because the whole story is just so cosy and a perfect example of the genre.
I really enjoyed it!Somewhere in Africa, in the 1920s (the book was published in 1925) two friends meet and have a strange conversation about stolen love letters and the memoirs of a famous balkan politician.
All the characters will end up there looking for a famous jewel stolen a few years and that is connected with the letters, the biography and the story of a fictional country named Herzoslovakia.
It was so much fun though, specially if you like dry humor, and the narration by Hugh Fraser was simply marvelous.
Probably the best he's ever done and I've listened to 30+ Christie books narrated by him.Some quotes that made me laugh out loud.The charming Mr. Cade"So that's how you pronounce it, is it?
I know when they call out 'Who killed Prince Michael?' I shall register a 122 or something perfectly frightful, and they'll haul me off to jail at once." The manservant"He looks a murderous sort of fellow.
I had completely forgotten this first Superintendent Battle mystery. Quite fun with Balkan politics, international jewel thieves, blackmail and possible impostors, not to mention a murder or two!Hugh Fraser does a marvelous narration.
Razrešetak misterije zanimljiv, 3.75 zvezdica
I can honestly say that I will probably never re-read this book in the future.
But honestly, he is not even needed in this story since once again another person solves the crimes that are central to this story.
Pretty much what I got from it was that Christie thought that all countries should be ruled since people without having a strong ruler would not be better than what they are.
But honestly I am still surprised Christie even had Battle in this one.
This, on the other hand, I absolutely adore. It's got that Christie oddball strangeness you find in some of her more outlandish books - the plot goes to some weird places - but the tone and atmosphere are so well done, and the personalities are so distinct and funny, that I'm always so entertained when I read this. The mystery is almost irrelevant here. It's the people that matter.
This book was okay, one that went here there and everywhere. It was hard keeping up with the story and what was happening. Always thought that Anthony crab was up to something but not sure what it was.
The Secret of Chimneys: 05/06/05 The political upheavals of WWI seemed to have inspired a great many popular fiction books in the years before WWII started to gear up.
In this case, it's a post Great War eastern European country that needs a new king.
Somehow the Chimneys estate cum hotel holds the secret to who the new king will be.
Another book I'd recommend in this "genre" of political intrigue / comedy, is Alias Jane Smith by Clarence Budington Kelland.
Anthony and Virginia alike are the type of people I wish I were friends with in real life; Bundle and Lord Catterham are adorable (so adorable that I'm glad we got to see more of them in the Seven Dials Mystery, along with Bill and Codders); Superintendent Battle is, as always, superb.
The mystery itself gets a shade confusing in spots, and Anthony himself admits that much of his involvement in the matter comes about by amazing coincidence, but what does that matter in a Christie novel?
It is the tricks and turns of the mystery, the tropes getting turned on their heads, as well as the brilliant characterizations, that keep us coming back to Dame Agatha.
I re read this after a gap of ten years.
The world of detectives and fiction writing gas changed so much since then.
A life long Agatha Christie fan I found this one quite boring.
It was thru sheer perseverance that i could manage to complete the book.
There are huge gaps in the story line and the end is dull.
The mystery of theft of Kohinoor is almost forced down the throat.
The reference to the hiding place is not so cryptic and the reader is purposefully doled out irrelevant bits of info to kill his time.
Huge disappointment .
رواية غريبة..لم تعجبني كثيرا.. لم يكن أنطوني كيد يعلم أنه سيتورط بسبب مهمة تصورها تافهة وقام بها من أجل صديق ستجعله محور مؤامرة دولية خطيرة..في هذه الرواية ملوك وملكات ووزاراء وقناصل..وأصحاب ألقاب ..ابتزاز وكثير من الأسرار وبالطبع جرائم قتل .. جو غريب بالنسبة لرواية من تأليف أغاثا ..لم يعجبني هذا الخليط .ما أحبه في روايات أغاثا دائما ..كم هي حقيقية ..كم هي ممكنة ..كم هي بسيطة ومعقدة في ذات الوقت ..تدخل للنفوس وتظهر أسوأ مافيها ..الحبكة جيدة رغم بعض الغموض في الصفحات الأخيرة ..
Review posted on BookLikes:http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...
No es fácil de leer porque tienes que estar pendiente de muchos detalles a la vez, las intrigas políticas de Herzoslovaquia son muy complejas y los personajes actúan movidos por ellas, por lo que cuesta mucho atar cabos y comprenderlo todo a la perfección.No obstante, es bastante breve y en un par de días se puede leer, pero, como digo, aunque esté igual de bien escrito que siempre y todo encaje al final, esta vez no me he llevado la misma sorpresa al descubrir quién era el asesino, porque todo está muy mezclado y hay que leerlo varias veces para no pasar nada por alto.Me ha decepcionado un poco esta vez, es un libro soso y aburrido, con personajes muy arquetípicos (no falta la joven y hermosa viuda con ademanes exquisitos, la inocente institutriz con algo que ocultar, el político discreto e inseguro…) y ambientes demasiado forzados.El desarrollo de la trama no está mal.
I love Agatha Christie books like this! The spy story... the many suspects... the romance.... Much fun to be had! I know people are either Poirot or Miss Marple fans. But I'm a fan of the standalones, the detective thrown into a mystery, and the sinister foreigners from countries that are thinly veiled representations of real countries!
I enjoyed most of this book. There were some good characters and interesting situations. However, the ending seemed like Agatha had run out of ideas and just wanted to get it over with. I didn't feel like any of the clues led up to the finale. Not her best.
With that as McGuffin, rich'n'exotic characters using false names and with many motives, a huge old house ("one of the Great Houses of Britain"), and enough twists and turns for two novels, this is a perfect delight of its type; all you can do is sit back and enjoy.
Brim full of odd folks and even odder happenings, this early Christie makes all the right moves IF you enjoy "that sort of thing".
Not quite as good as the first T&T story SECRET ADVERSARY, though; seems as though the longer Christie wrote, the more "adorable!" she tried to make the society types seem, alas.
Esa parte política de la novela es lo que menos me gustó, aunque sí me parece algo que pasa actualmente donde las potencias y empresarios se aprovechan de países en desarrollo para quitarle sus riquezas.Como dije, al principio (2 o 3 capítulos) es medio lento, pero despues hay un asesinato y ya toma el típico ritmo de las novelas de Agatha.Hay algunas coincidencias que ocurren que la hacen menos creíble o muy conveniente, pero aun asi es una buena novela.Finalmente, conocemos por primera vez al dectective Battle y vemos como Agatha crea a otro gran detective, diferente de Poirot, Marple o los esposos Beresford.
Real rating: 4.5This was awesome.I loved the characters and the really complex and interesting story;there's also a lot of humor and even sarcastic remarks.The ending is sooo good!I really liked Virginia,she's a bit crazy,isn't she?Those last 20 pages were insane,I had so much fun reading them!But seriously now,this book is really interesting,with royal intrigue,phenomenal main character and great twists-what more can I ask for?Favourite quotes:“I'm the kind of person who marries enthusiastically if they marry at all.” ''There was nothing that bored Lord Caterham more than politics - unless it was politicians. ''
"O cenário para este crime foi sendo construído aos poucos de forma bastante sólida (como já vem sendo costume), porém (e como elemento diferenciador) existiu uma forte componente política no centro da questão. Mais uma vez reitero que questões políticas são um turn-off para mim, porém o crime foi construído de forma tão sublime e a explicação foi tão credível que acabou por compensar esse aspecto que (para mim) é negativo."http://paginasencadernadas.wordpress....
From IMDb:An attempt to bring a famed stately home back to its former glory is marred when a visiting Austrian diplomat is shot to death decades after the disappearance of a priceless diamond.A movie was made based on this book and it's available at YouTube, with Julia McKenzie, Ian Weichardt, Laura O'Toole.
What can I say? I adore Agatha Christie novels and this one was a good story. This is the first Christie novel that I have purchased as an audiobook and I rather enjoyed the story and the narrating was superb. Can't wait to listen to more of her novels.
