https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59887.The_Promise
Awesome read! nice love story about forgiveness and overcoming many things..well written (paperback!)
Marion didn't think Nancy would be an appropriate wife for Michael.
(What Marion didn't disclose was her intention to lie to Michael about Nancy's "death".)2.
To be fair to Michael, he'd believed Nancy had died but it's still aggravating because neither waited very long to move on.
I thought Nancy gave up on Michael too easily.
That's why you didn't wait very long to have an affair with your surgeon?)*The book ends with Michael thinking he wouldn't punish his mother for separating them because he was too happy, now that he'd been reunited with Nancy.
I read this book some time ago and I really enjoyed reading the story. Very well written and very hard to put down.
Nancy is not who Michael's mother would choose for her son & expresses her distaste and disapproval for this relationship.
Michael, has always been the dutiful son to his widowed mother but defies her by setting off to marry Nancy.
Michael has been told Nancy died in the accident and focuses on the family business.
In truth, Nancy has been convinced to accept Mrs. Hilliards offer of medical assistance -- considerable reconstructive plastic surgery w/ the proviso that she not contact her son.
Nancy has not given up on Michael, because she is sure he will come find her.
First DS book I read and I was very moved and I wish there was epilogue! The book is way better than the film so much more depth and it was good read! Despite being old book it felt timeless. Michael was dead to the world when he lost the love of life and it was clear he was truly shattered and closed off. DS captured this and you can feel their pain throughout the story. The ending was sweet. A keeper for sure!
I think I decided to re-read this because I was curious to know whether or not the twentysomething me would still love it.
The Promise is a story about the simple kind of love.
Anyway, what I'm trying to say here is that I like how this made me feel good about love and how it made me believe that it will always find its way back to you.
I know that a lot of people think that's probably too idealistic - as I do, sometimes - but I guess I'll always be a hopeless romantic and this, for me, is just a beautiful read.
He had never loved her more."And I promise...

Very romantic story. I first read it at age 15 and really loved it, read it again as an adult and thought it was silly. Why wouldn't he want to look for her grave? But okay, allowing for that, and how easily the main characters get everything they want or think they want, this is a fun little romance. Danielle Steel is a dreadful writer but this book is OK, if you have to read one by her this is the least nauseating. I think she had help with this one, at least I read that that was the case.
Gotta admit that at the beginning I did not like this novel much ,but as I kept on reading it just caught me with the specific details and the dramatic changes that happens to almost every character in this novel .Danielle Steel sure is a great and talented writer to write such a fascinating novel ,this was my first book to read by Danielle Steel but it sure is not going to be the last.
Michael and Nancy were both hurt badly and the friend had just a few damages, but Michael and NAncy both woke up in the hospital not knowing what happened to the other.
Michaels mom however thought this was the perfect time to get rid of nancy, so she told Nancy that if she would agree to be sent away and never talk to Michael again unless he found her she would pay to fix all her injuries from the accident and reconstruct her face, Nancy said yes.
But the only way this would work is Michaels mom telling him NAncy died so she did so.
The Promise by Danielle SteelMichael Hillard and Nancy MacAllister are to be wed but the car accident prior to the weddingleaves others to wonder if they will keep their vow.
He is an architect and she is an artist.His wealthy mother disapproves though...They will be separated but will it keep them apart?He is appalled that his mother have a private eye find out about Nancy's past=like it was her fault who her parents turned out to be.On their way to get married the car crashes and he's unconscious and she has lost her face.
I've not long read 'Accident' by Steel which also featured a Car Crash as one of the main plot points.
And whereas I couldn't put 'Accident' down, The Promise fell flat.
I think the problem was the characters just didn't have much personality.
The whole Nancy/Marie thing was weird.
It was strange that she had coaching to change her voice but in the end I understood why that was in there as it was used in the plot.
It just wasn't the kind of book where you ignore other things, and for a Steel book, it was pretty short but it felt much longer.
o my god seriously this was my first book ever... the story the lines it was just  o my god have no words .... just hooked my with love stories for ever .... i still carry the paperback copy of this bold its even smells old but when ever i look at it i remember the days i kept think abt this book ... :)
First book I ever read because I was bored. I was grounded in high school and I stayed up all night to finish it. It was great! I went on to read Danielle Steel for several years. I loved the way she described the women in the stories and the places they went and where they lived. Just beautitul!
Absolute trite.
His mother tells Michael that Nancy died!
Michaels mother goes to the hospital where Nancy is and tells her that she will never be anything but hideous and Michael is starting a career in a job that is too powerful to have a wife that looks like her.
His mother also says that she told Michael what hospital she is in and if he really loved her he would come and see her.
He told her he started noticing things about her that were so much like his Nancy and that his mother finally admitted what she had done.
tw: rape remark, car accidentPersonally I prefer the older Danielle Steel.
This one was published in 1999, hence why I consider it her older work.
Her older work has more of a story.
Everything about her older work is just better.
But sadly, this one wasn't the best I've read.(view spoiler)[ I think my problem with the book and why I didn't love it was because of how forgiving Michael was to his mother.
His mother didn't think she was good enough for Michael.
Overall, this wasn't the worst book I've read of Danielle Steel but I've read better.
A poor girl marries a rich boy and is unacceptable to her new mother-in-law. When she is in a car accident and terribly disfigured, her mother-in-law pays for her reconstructive surgery on the condition that she will disappear from her son's life. This was a TV movie (and Ms Steele wrote the books afterwards) with Kathleen Quinlan and Steven Collins.
This is the very first book I read by this author and fell in love with her style of writing as I could 'picture' the story unfolding in my mind. Years later I saw the movie and although it was good I could honestly say that the book was so much better and I have been reading her books ever since.
Secretly read this as a kid without my mum knowing I had taken it out of the bookcase. I have such fond memories of reading Danielle Steel under the bed covers and this was such a great, over the top read. Loved it
My wife and I both had our seventh grade teacher read this book to us. Years later, I was in a band with the authors son for a few weeks before he was kicked out for drug use. Oh yea, the book... It was pretty awful.
I'm always amazed at the lengths snooty matriarchs will go to, just to keep poor, deserving girls from marrying their sons.
THE BEST BOOK I HAVE EVER READ!!!!!!!!!! I READ IT IN ONE DAY I COULDNT PUT IT DOWN!!!! MAKE SURE YOU HAVE A BOX OF TISSUES!!!
Excellent story. So surprised at myself for having never read this before. I loved it.
This was a reread for me. I enjoyed it as much as I did the fist time years ago. I love DS books and I am glad I agreed to do this for a buddy read.
Or what it stands for...' 'And I promise....never to say goodbye to you.'"Danielle Steel's depiction of Michael and Nancy's voices blow me away every time I read this book.
I didn't watch Gary Michael White's film version until after I read the novel, so you may say that I am biased; but despite the fact that the screenplay came first, I was quite underwhelmed by the film in comparison to the epic romance that Steel showed me.Female Empowerment.....Nancy is a serious bad ass; especially considering that this novel was written in the 70's (before the days when Shonda Rhimes graced us with super bad ass women on TV).She overcomes extreme tragedy and circumstances in which most of us would just roll over and give up but she grows stronger.
a) I’m too old for this kind of drivelb) This wasn’t drivel when it was written back in 1978c) I’m too hardhearted and cynical to understand LoveChances are that the right answer might be option c.After the thundercloud of This Divided Island, I wanted some cotton candy fluffy clouds.
But I don’t think I finished reading the book back then.
The story was totally new to me now, new meaning roll-your-eyes-at-the-cliched-plot kind of new.All it lacked was six songs and two fight scenes.
And the typical Danielle Steel relationships: old people in love, young people in love, young woman in love with a man 20 years her senior.
I remember crying a lot of times while reading this (especially at the ending) and going to school and telling my classmates to read it because it's so good and it's a love story and I'm such a hopeless romantic freak, blah, blah, blah.
I remember how this book was passed from my Mom to my sister and finally to me, and how the three of us wept and couldn't stop talking about it.The plot may be cliche, but I didn't know (and haven't read) many cliche stories back then so I didn't care.


