https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113935.Goals_
I started reading this book because my mom suggested it.
She thought it would be a good book to get me to set good new years resolutions.
The plot of the book; well there really wasn’t a specifically set plot.
The book started out with him talking about how he changed his life and how we can all change our life’s if we set reasonable goals.
I would recommend this book to adults who want to learn the skill of goal setting or adults who want to get their life’s back on track.
This is a good book if you want to set some good goals.
Of course, that's what I wanted to do.
And thanks to this book, I now have set some good goals.
As you can probably guess this book has a lot to say about setting goals, but it's not just about the tactics and quick tips.
It also covers a lot of the psychology of setting goals as well.
There is a lot to read and it can get a little convoluted, but the book basically follows these five points: 1.
Get in the right frame of mind.
This is a good book if you want to set some good goals.
Set the values you want to base your life around.
And the action steps at the end of each chapter, while good, had you doing the same damn thing over and over again.But, as much as I like to criticize, I'm glad I read this book.
The more reasons you have for wanting to achieve your goal, the more intense will be your desire.
Analyze your starting point and your reasons, set a deadline, list the obstacles you will need to overcome, and what skills and knowledge and people you will need to know.
I was skeptical of this book when it was recommended to me because I don't need to "double my income" (twice of nothing is still nothing!) After reading it I see that it is a practical resource for readjusting my focus and my attitude.
This book really helps with that.
Who knows,someday I will be back in the money-making game and this book will have a place in that life too.
For now, it's helped me clear away some fog that comes with my job description.
I will be re-reading this book.
offers you practical pieces of advice on establishing what it is that  you  really want and how to get it.Brian Tracy emphasizes on the importance of setting goals the correct way.
All you have to do is set a realistic goal, make a clear practical plan, and get busy doing what needs to be done to make it happen.You see, if you really want to achieve your goals; you have got to internalize them, you have to make them a part of you and your life.
I believe a book like this needs to be read when your mind is ready to accept it.Tracy talks about how your mind can postpone certain events in your life.
To me, my mind held me up for a while, but certain events occurred in my life that bolted me past the hurdles.I have been using the techniques laid out in this book, and I already feel myself focusing on the things that are most important to me.
***For more reviews, contests, interviews, book news and more go to my blog: http://theheelshaveeyes.wordpress.comThis is the second Brian Tracy book I have read and he is fast becoming my favourite career advice authors.
In this book Tracy discusses the importance of goal setting and what a difference it can make to achieving what it is you want in life.His advice is clear, concise and easy to follow.
There are some moments where it gets slightly repetitive and some areas that I thought could have been slightly cut down but other than that, this is a fantastic book and well worth the read.REACH FOR YOUR GOALS!!
(and make sure to write them down to).
To be honest, I haven't gotten through this book. I doubt even if this is the kind of book to get through once and then shelve it done.This is a partner of a book. To keep shelving and unshelving whenever you need it. I'm constantly adopting fragments from it into my daily routine ... and right now, I can honestly say that this is one of the most resourceful books I've ever read.I'm likely to modify this review depending on how things turn out in the future as I take in more with experience.
Good Book. Nice Tips. It would have sufficed to read summarized notes of the authors ideas. Great Plan/ Tips. The one thing that I am have a challenge with these kinds of books is they give you so many steps to do while you are reading it. It would take a month to do all the activities. A great book should be able to be condensed into three great ideas. Otherwise it's too much. I enjoyed the beginning and the end most of all. I will review this book in the future.
2.5 / 5و لعدم وجود انصاف نجوم 3 / 5الكتاب ذكرنى ب نكتة الجمل ...كان مدرس يطلب من التلاميذ كتابة موضو
Well organized and easy to get through.
It's very practical with easy-to-implement strategies.
It sounds cliche, and maybe even hard-to-believe, but I got one strategy from this book, which only takes about ten minutes per day, that has increased my income, given me a better work/life balance, and brought new opportunity in ways I would have never imagined.This book won't work for everybody and it may not work for you, but if you're a fan of Brian Tracy or somebody who wants to attain certain goals in life, I recommend checking it out.
Some valuable points but overall not succinctly put, way too many sub-sections for what is an overall simple topic to cover.
I stopped paying attention around page 180 as it just started to drag on and essentially be predictable permutations based off the points in the first few chapters.
The silver lining to this book is the somewhat inspirational point it makes - essentially everyone (at least if you aren't horribly oppressed) has potential to achieve just about anything they want and 80% of what is keeping one from what they want is one's own psychological self model.
If you want to know more about setting goals I recommend the book Goals! from Brian Tracy. On this book Brian Tracy guide you through the entire process since clarifying what you want, to helping you measure your progress, create an action plan, manage yourself and set your priorities in order to achieve your goals in a more effective and efficient way.
I just finished this book a week or two ago and have immediately begun to re-read it. It is packed with incredibly valuable and easily implemented tools to help you identify your goals and make clear plans to reach them. Don't just float through life.Highly recommended.
كيف تحصل على كل شيء تريده أسرع مما ظننته ممكناً؟ جذبني هذا العنوان ، الكتاب يتحدث عن ادارة الجهد والوقت والتركيز من تأليف براين تريسي ، المقدمة ممتعة عن قصة حياة الكاتب والنجاح الذي حققه في مجال التسويق، لازلت في المقدمة ! احسست ان الكتاب ينمي (الأنا) في النفس وربما تكون انانية معتدلة
His exciting talks and seminars on Leadership, Selling, Self-Esteem, Goals, Strategy, Creativity and Success Psychology bring about immediate changes and long-term results.Prior to founding his company, Brian Tracy International, Brian was the Chief Operating Officer of a $265 million dollar development company.Goals!: How to Get Everything You Want -- Faster Than You Ever Thought Possible Review by Vanga SrikanthOver his stellar career, Brian Tracy has authored over 50 books.
As I read this book, a recurring thought that kept running through my mind was, "Man, I wish I had read this nine years ago!"One of the reasons this book never made it to the top of my reading list is that a few years ago I purchased Tracy's audio download, How To Set and Achieve Goals, which I have listened to many times over.
Despite its cover, this book is actually really useful when it comes to planning goals and working toward them every day. The advice in here is sound, and the author outlines exercises and habits that can help you achieve your ends faster and easier. Plus, there aren't a ton of corny anecdotes and overly personal tales. If you're into self-development, this is a must-read.
You can only describe your life story. you cannot tell other people what to do, it's their life and they can do whatever the hell they want to do. This book literally gave me anxiety, it was giving me chills, ordering me to to do the same stuff the authour did. Like no, I want to do it my way, you are not my dad.
This book made me believe that if you really have trust in your guts, you'll be able to achieve literally anything and everything. The tips mentioned in the book are all practical & actionable.
Good book to motivate you to reach for your goals.
The author manages to glue many concepts together and create a useful guideline on how to set goal.The book is collection of best practices in setting goals, presenting in 21 rules. Some highlights:- Have a clear goal. Clear goal makes you decide easier, act faster and be focus- Be positive. - Have schedules/plans, based on importance and urgency- Remind of your goal every morning you wake up and every night before going to bed.- Act! One bit at a time.- Hangout with similar people.- More...
Brian Tracy, author of the phenomenal book, "Eat That Frog: 21 Great Ways to Stop Procrastinating and Get More Done in Less Time," offers more practical strategies achieving your goals by carefully observing, documenting, and modeling the successful habits of successful high-achievers.
Tracy describes seven critical elements of establishing goals and 12 fundamental steps to set and reach goals.
He offers meaningful advice and provides examples that allow readers to articulate goals and align their vision with their core values.
Tracy's "Mental Fitness" program of character development is a particularly valuable tools that empowers readers with tools to walk their talk.
This is a book I'm bound to return to again and again, one of my personal seven pillars of wisdom in life.
Because I managed to get through most of this sitting by the pool and reflecting on career, I came back with a positive drive to start changing things that I want to.
Which I have started, but it's not easy, and therefore I'm sure that I'll be needing this book to hand this year to see if I can really move things forward to a new dimension.
Imagine a book that takes the most basic advice on goal setting and interweaves that with pop-psychology and fails to grapple with reality and you will have imagined this book. If you are looking for a good book about goal setting that grapples with reality, read David Allen's Making It All Work. He has a great chapter on goal setting which also includes advice on transforming your goals into reality. Skip Brian Tracy's work on Goals.
This is a book that really changed my life. I know this is pretty corney to say about a business self-help book, but it allowed me to focus my energies in a particular direction and stop my life-drift. If you just read it, I don't think it will do much for you, but if you really do all the activities and apply yourself, it can really change everything. I set a list of goals for 2007 that I thought was pretty ambitious and I am still on track to make them!
Easy to follow goal setting book that I keep on my bookshelf and re-read yearly.
You need Goals to be successful, and you need to read this "Goals" book to set and achieve your goals.
Wow!Just get it, do not argue with me, just get it!If you follow the steps he gives you, you can not help but make dramatic positive life-changes.Patrick ONeillJaxCandleMan.com
http://www.mybookspk.com/product/7025...To Order ANY Books, SMS/WhatsApp Book and Author Name at 0303-0227528. E-Books Also Available
that is a great gift from dear person who care about me. I hope to make real goals for myself in this regarding.
Với sự tin tưởng rằng bất kỳ cá nhân nào cũng có những năng lực tiềm ẩn to lớn chưa được khám phá.Tác giả cuốn sách Chinh phục mục tiêu - Brian Tracy cho rằng mọi người đều có thể tiến xa hơn nữa và nhanh chóng tiếp cận mục tiêu của mình, chỉ cần họ biết học hỏi và rèn luyện những phương pháp, kỹ năng và chiến lược mà những người thành đạt đi trước đã từng áp dụng.
