https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46676.When_Bad_Things_Happen_to_Good_People
This seems to me not only comforting but theologically satisfying.Ultimately Kushner, like many of us, was wrestling not with Judaic theological but with Greek philosophical ideas about God. The concepts of divine perfection - omniscience, omnipotence, etc.
God is far too complex and strange to be captured definitively by words and an ancient dialectical rhetoric.The untoward influence of Greek philosophy on Judaeo-Christian theology has been recognised and repeatedly documented over the last century.
When Bad Things Happen to Good People is Rabbi Harold Kushner's examination of life, why things happen and the role of God in all of it.Kushner wrote the book because his son was born with progeria, a disease where his body aged much faster than it should, and he died young.
I believe in the goodness of people and the universe.In my job, every day, I read and hear about terrible things that happen for no reason at all.
Rabbi Kushner's position is that, because suffering exists in the world, only three options are possible: (1) God does not exist.
(2) God exists but is not good, or (3) God exists and is good but is not all-powerful.
Explanation (4), that God exists, is good, and is all-powerful, but for reasons we cannot now fully comprehend, chooses to allow suffering, is not an option.
(3) The most important question is not, "Why did God let this happen to me?" but rather "How can God help me endure now that this has happened?"
Yesterday, while I was trying to compose this review in my mind, I saw this headline in The Philippine Daily Inquirer: Corona Leaving Fate to God. For my foreigner friends, this impeachment trial of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines has been one of the favorite topics for discussion nowadays among us Filipinos.
Kushner (born 1935) wrote this very inspiring book, When Bad Things Happen to Good People, as a tribute to his son Aaron, who at the age of 14, died of the incurable disease progeria.
In this book, Rabbi Kushner says that God has no capacity to control everything that happens on earth or to us.
This book attempts to answer such questions.Sometimes well-intentioned individuals say things to the bereaved like "It was part of God's plan" or "God needed her up in Heaven." Those who are grieving might feel hurt by these messages, wondering if the implication is that their loved one somehow deserved to die.Harold Kushner tells us that God cannot stop bad things from happening, because everyone dies and because we have free will.
We can turn to God for support and love when bad things inevitably happen.I read this book before I learned about the noble truths of Buddhism, and the messages of this book parallel those noble truths.
I wish I could say that this book answers the question posed by its title.
Instead, it is more of lesson on how "God" doesn't cause bad things - humans do.
However, I give this book four stars for two reasons.
One, the author seems like the coolest rabbi around.
Seccond, the very end of the book comes to the conclusion that it doesn't really matter why something bad happens, instead it matters how we respond to a tragedy and what we do afterwards.
A little, but the author puts it more eloquently that you actually DO feel a little better at the end of this book.
Honest review: this is a book about the author, not about God. Kushner was crying out against God, just like Job, and - in a contrived way - he expressed his anger by presenting in this book a totally self-made theology, where God is not perfect and all-powerful.
Adams (Theology Today, October 1982) concludes about this book: "Kushner is surely right about the will of God. I, too, am horrified when someone says it must have been the will of God that my own son was killed by a drunken driver.
The best I can do to explain this book is to quote it:"But if Man is truly free to choose, if he can show himself as being virtuous by freely choosing the good when the bad is equally possible, then he has to be free to choose the bad also.
If he were only free to do good, he would not really be choosing.
If we are bound to do good, then we are not free to choose it." Harold Kushner, p.
I think a lot of things come down to choice.
And this book explains it really well.
God is not all powerful.
God does not inflict suffering.
Suffering is not a divine means to punish, to test our faith, or to teach us a lesson.
And yet, read Rabbi Kusher's reasoning and you, too will gain a broader understanding of God and what it means to be human and to endure pain, suffering, and joy.
I have come to learn that God is love.
The world is not fair and life is full of random circumstances; and yet, God is loving compassion, a force for good that grants us free will and provides humanity strength and comfort when we suffer.
I read this book when it came out!
It was one of the books marked for a new friend here on Goodreads.I 'think' the author has a more recent book out --(I'll have to check)About this book: It can be valuable to read if a person is going through a loss -a death of somebody close -(any tragic situation) --Personal tragedy is the context of this book --then the reader can look at different perspectives and beliefs.The topic of GOD is examined (not pushed down your throat --just examined).
He does however give more and more knowledge to doctors, surgeons and those trying to find cures to some of the dreadful illnesses that we suffer and maybe one day many of them will no longer exist.As to the 'why bad things happen to good people', I don't know but I do believe that we are all capable of bad and that there are more factors in why someone turns to crime, violence, drink or drugs and we are not in the position to judge.I do know what it is like to lose a child, husband, sister and other much loved relatives and friends before what we would consider to be their allotted time but I cannot see the point in blaming God who had been there throughout my life to comfort me.
This is not a book written by a preacher who decides just to get up one Sunday and preach on Suffering and give you all the blah blah that you have got memorized by now too well...
No, this is a man who had to lose his beloved dear son to a genetic disorder and had to wrestle with the issue as a Jewish believing rabbi.
I can hear Rabbi Kushner's voice on every page of the book and he is so compassionate.
What is beautiful about him is that he is real and honest and never claims to have the ultimate answer to the dilemma of suffering.
For natural evil, rabbi Kushner makes a good encounter through the story of Job, as told in the bible, and he proposes that as long as Job is a good person, like the majority of human beings, then God is all just but He is not all powerful, meaning that He is limited by the laws of nature He created and thus He can't intervene to change the way they act on this world and on everyone of us.
I only finished this book by Rabi Kushner because I truly wanted to understand the author's position and therefore that of thousands in this world.
I enjoyed his logical methodical manner of understanding trials and God's role, there are some points I agree with.1.
Many bad things happen because of the nature of the world.3.
Here are some of the positions that I take where Kushner disagrees.1.
Death is not the horror that he thinks it is, nor is it's existence proof that God does not love or care for us.
Death is by far not the worst thing that can happen to anyone.
I read it because my friend (who picked the book for our bookclub) is struggling with the question of why her husband is having to fight ALS, as well as the millions of other questions that impact her and her family.I realized that I have been asking myself those same questions, but about my mother.
Some days, she can not tell me what her name is.I have asked myself why my mother has to now finish her life in such a state, and why God would visit this on one of his faithful followers.Another reason I wasn't too keen on reading this book is that it is religion based.
This book has been in my personal library for many years, but I do not forget it.
Although it is written by a rabbi, it is well suited for people of any faith.
Rabbi Kushner, whom I have met, has had his own share of personal tragedy, so it is fitting to state that he is not just sermonizing.
His words help in many ways to make sense of loss, grieving and turmoil.
An important feature of his writing is that he enables a traumatized individual to shed guilt or fault-finding related to the problem.
One need not be religiously observant to appreciate this book.
With religion, Kushner says one question really matters: why do good people suffer?
Kushner then proceeds to examine conventional answers religions and religious people commonly offer.
I don’t think conventional religion can acquiesce to the idea that God is not omnipotent.
They don’t want to accept the idea their God may have limited power or that their prayers have no currency for divine intervention.
I was hurt, angry and was all alone - feeling abandoned by everyone, including God. A therapist jotted down "When Bad Things Happen to Good People", and I bought and read the book.
I was still angry and said, but I want to know, "why"!It wasn't until several years later that I could accept Rabbi Kushner's message that bad things will happen to all of us at some time in our lives, but it's how we receive and process that event that will determine how we receive God and will experience life.I'm not going to give the details of this book away, it's for you, the reader to uncover and process.
Kushner chooses to believe in an imperfect god, which allows him to maintain his belief while at the same time exonerating his god for all the pain, suffering, and death which befall the most innocent of bystanders.
Either this god could prevent all misery, and deliberately chooses not to, in which case I want nothing to do with him because mean.
Or, this god who supposedly created this entire universe isn't powerful enough to prevent misery, in which case that first bit must be a lie, huh?I find it much more comforting to believe that what happens to us is just plain dumb luck (or lack thereof).
An old book that I never read until my friend Maureen Stemmelen lent it to me last weekend.
She had just come from the Unitarian Meeting House and checked out some books, because Walter's dad, Irving, was dying.
She said she had read it when she was a Speech Pathology student and found it enriching.I had avoided reading it in the past, fearing it was "preachy".
He said that Aaron's death made him a more compassionate and caring pastor, but that he'd give up all that he gained in a minute if he could have Aaron back.
Read the book.
When something bad happens to you, don' blame yourself.
Don't blame God, there was nothing he could have done.When you see something bad happen to someone else, rush to comfort them.
Kushner cites as an authority the great sociologist Emile Durkheim who argued that the basic purpose of religion was to put people in touch with each other not God.Kushner's book was an instant hit when it was first published in 1981 and still continues to sell well.
It did not bring me the comfort that I was looking for, but did have some pearls of wisdom to impart and food for thought.
His son died two days after his fourteenth birthday and When Bad Things Happen to Good People was the result of the pain and hurt the author felt.
To me, something I had done had bought this about, but When Bad Things Happen to Good People has helped me see that I’m not to blame either.
Life is cruel and so is nature, but no one is to blame.When Bad Things Happen to Good People helped me see that I shouldn’t be asking why this has happened to me.
Someone recommended this book to me after my younger sister (age 33) was killed by a car that no-one was driving.
How could a good and loving G-d allow this kind of tragedy to happen?
It helped me, made some sense to something so random and tragic that had happened to someone I loved and lost.
I wasn't ready to read this for a long time after my sisters untimely death, so take your time and wait until you're ready!
But when you think maybe its time to let go of your anger, maybe reading this book would be a good starting point.
The painful things that happen to us are not punishments for our misbehavior, nor are they in any way part of some grand design on God's part." So maybe I'm oversimplifying here but this basically says to me: bad shit is random and God can't cause it nor stop it.
Going along with that, this poses another important question: Why do GOOD things happen to BAD people?
If the bad things are random and out of God's control, the good things must be too.
Nothing has any meaning by this logic- the good things or the bad things.
This is not my first copy which had been a library book when it was first published in 1981.
But it wasn't till 10 years after my first reading when my life fell apart that I really valued what Kushner had written.
For me, I had answers and reassurances that I wasn't alone, that I was not being punished, that good still happened and that I would survive.
As a person of faith what more could I ask of God.Now over 30 years later when life isn't what I had happily planned, I still cherish those thoughts and I cope.
I read this book against my better judgement as it is the selection of the library book club and I found it lacking in so many ways that it would be impossible to enumerate them all.
Kushner has experienced suffering, without a doubt, but his approach to suffering in this book is not authentic and rational in terms of theology.
He humanizes God to the point that he is more like a concerned neighbor than an almighty creator.
He effectively incapacitates God by stating that God has no control over the bad things that happen to us.
Excellently written and compelling.
Managed, in my opinion, for a much more convincing and believable explanation for why bad things happen to good people that C.
S. Lewis's "The Problem of Pain," which I thought was good at the time, but after more reflection, found to be relatively disappointing.
It also contains some brilliant insight into the Book of Job, and a fantastic exegesis of said book.
I really enjoyed the Jewish perspective on things.
I look forward to reading more books by Harold Kushner, and already added several books to my 'to-read' list that were referenced within this succinct treasure.
First introduced to this book, by a professor of mine who taught a Child Life class.
As part of the Child Life profession, we are forced to come to terms everyday about our beliefs on why children and families suffer so much pain that they don't seem to deserve.This book has especially helped me these past 2 years as I've been in my own personal health crisis and struggling to understand how and why my life fell apart so hard and so fast.
It provides wonderful insights about life's trials.
Recommend it to all those who question why innocent people suffer.
I read this book in my early twenties during a time when I was just starting to give myself permission to question my religious upbringing. I didn't necessarily agree with Kushner's conclusions, but I was touched by his story and the way he crafted answers for himself that he could live with. I'll never forget this book.
