https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9791.A_Walk_in_the_Woods
Years of declining the advice of the Bryson-worshipers, it seems, was not in vain.I'm halfway through, and - like the author on the daunting trail - am unsure as to whether or not I can finish my task.
Bryson sounds, to put it mildly, a real jerk.
He's smug and superior, and spends most of the book complaining about his companions on the trail.
True, some of his encounters sound less than thrilling, but even the obnoxious woman he encounters should get credit for tackling the trail by herself.
Said "friend" is then derided throughout the book for his sloth, roughness in manner, and lowbrow tastes.
Oh, and if I were to camp, I would like it to be at a site that has free Wi-Fi.What this amounts to is that the Appalachian Trail, endearingly referred to by those hiking it as “the AT,” will never be anything more to me than a lovely little map.
Fortunately for me, almost a full third of the Appalachian Trail is in New England, so maybe I can have it all—because I think if there is one thing I’ve learned from Bryson’s experience, it is that I don’t have to suffer through long days of cold rain and hungry nights to enjoy what the Appalachian Trail has to offer.
I kind of surprised I liked this book at all, because: a) I read pathetically little non-fiction b) I've never read a travelogue ANDc) I'm only a fan of the Great Outdoors as long as I'm safely Indoors.So, color me shocked that I not only finished this, but giggled my way through quite a bit of it!
Bryson really is a pretty funny writer, and the way he captured his experience on the Appalachian Trail had me in tears a few times.
I wanted to like Bill Bryson’s A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail.
Not sure what I was expecting from this—perhaps more about hiking on the actual AT and the reasons Bryson made this trek—but I was mostly disappointed.
It was also disappointing that Bryson noted the historical stereotypes of Appalachian people and casually confirmed their stupidity without any real interaction (not once but many times).
I still would like to hike the AT, but Bryson did little to illuminate what it’s really like to hike the trail except to offer that it’s not what most people expect.
A Walk in the Woods was his humorous take on attempting a long-distance hike of the Appalachian Trail, which spans more than 2,100 miles from Georgia to Maine.
I wanted a little of that swagger that comes with being able to gaze at a far horizon through eyes of chipped granite and say with a slow, manly sniff, 'Yeah, I've shit in the woods.'"And so Bryson plans his trip, gets indignant over the high cost of outdoor equipment, and recruits an old friend, Stephen Katz, to walk the trail with him.
Bryson and Katz spend several weeks on the trail, hiking 500 miles in their first section.
you know, a little crazy, when it comes to the whole walking thing.My brother has thru-hiked the Appalachian Trail once, in its entirety, and has section-hiked more than 900+ miles of favorite parts of it, at other times.
An adventurous fool, but still a fool.Personally, I would never hike one of these trails without an entourage, pepper spray, bear spray, a billy club and/or a baseball bat and an INCREDIBLE SENSE OF HUMOR.After reading Bryson's book, I would like to hike at least part of the Appalachian Trail someday, if only to write about it.
Undoubtedly an amusing, breezy read, full of the kind of fun and hilarity all the blurbs lead you to expect.
A moose is a cow drawn by a three-year-old." That had me laughing on the train.I can't say I liked this book quite as much as some of my friends seem to.
He also went off on these long jeremiads over the ecological devastation we've wrought on the Eastern forests, without citing any sources whatsoever, or recommending solutions.
Good researchers cite sources, and good crusaders at least try to find answers to the world's problems.
Bryson seemed like more of a gadfly: buzzing, bothersome, but impotent.
This book has a score of laugh out loud moments all weaved into Bryson’s cultural and historical insights.Bryson lived abroad for years and upon returning to the United States decided to hike the Appalachian Trail.
Along the way, Bryson discourses on subjects that range from the history of the Appalachian Trail, the neglect and incompetence of the Forestry and Park services, pre-Colonial botanists, the potential flame ball that is Centralia, PA, the temperature extremes of Mount Washington (NH), trees, the constant threat of getting eaten by bears or hogtied by hillbillies and, of course, the hike itself.
Don’t worry, I used it anyway.”If I were to go hiking today, I don’t think I would have picked the guy Bryson ended up with.
Bryson's humorous, well-researched, yet relaxed writing is what I always hope for when embarking upon a book like this.A trek upon the Appalachian Trail is supposed to be relaxing, if strenuous, and if a bit of history and humor get mixed in then all the better.
While I enjoyed hearing about the local spots I'm familiar with like Mt. Washington in New Hampshire (a hiker from Pepperell, MA the tiny town my mom is from is even mentioned, woohoo!), it's Bryson's relationship with his friend Katz, a larger-than-life character who joined him periodically on the trail, that really ties this whole book together.
Bryson sets off to walk the Appalachian trail with only an extremely overpriced backpack (packed with equally ridiculously expensive gear), an old "friend"  that he hadn't talked to in years and a will to find his next story.
A moose is a cow drawn by a three-year-old.
Her little pot-shots against The Appalachian Trail were not justified).
I'll stick to my wood-chipped half-mile paths in the local park, thank you very much.Audiobook Comments---Am a smidge annoyed that he did not narrate his own autobiography (well micro-autobiography of a trail adventure (are micro-autos a thing?))---Narrator (Rob McQuay) was great though.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ After reading A Man Called Ove last week, I was afraid nothing would compare and I’d be stuck in book hangover mode unless I picked something totally different from what I normally read. I decided to go to the library website incognito in order to not get the typical porny recommendations made “just for me” and get the generally recommended ones instead. Obviously A Walk In The Woods was a book that appeared on the list and I remember
Obviously A Walk In The Woods was a book that appeared on the list and I remembered way back when I was thinking about reading Wild a certain Georgia peach said I should read this instead because at least if I hated it she was almost certain I’d at least get a couple of laughs.
While it’s obvious that Bryson fell in love with The Appalachian Trail on his journey, there is a lot of info dumping that occurs because of this love.
He rips tourists who just stop by the AT to do quick hikes, eat cheeseburgers at fast-food restaurants, then hop in their cars and move on, and yet he spends much of the middle section of the book doing just that!
much like the time later in the book when he leaves his windbreaker at home while hiking in the Presidentials; also, he sets out to hike the entire length of the AT, but gives up when he looks at a map in Gatlinburg and realizes -gasp- the AT is really long!
You didn't look at a map BEFORE you started hiking?
At the end there is a line or two that shows appreciation for hiking.
He tells of unpleasant people on the trail, the weight of the pack, hunger and tiredness, the expense and idiocy of trekking gear, even abstinence from sex and family and TV and soda pop and Little Debbie cakes and beer.
There are some relevant insights about trekking which can be drawn from the book if you ponder what happens:-the first and second day are always the hardest.-it is easy to get lost.-don’t walk alone and inform others of your itinerary.
Bryson and Katz spend several days with the delightful John Connolly, a New York schoolteacher who had been hiking the trail a bit at a time for 19 years.
One night the three camp with seventeen Boy Scouts and three adult supervisors, “all charmingly incompetent.” After watching a night of the scout’s ineptness: “Even Katz agreed that this was better than TV."Along the way, Bryson painlessly inserts lessons of history, geology, entomology, and more.
Bryson delivers an extended geology lesson on the tectonic formation of the 470 million year-old Appalachian Mountains that palatably educates.
In "A Walk in the Woods", Bryson narrates his experiences on the Appalachian Trail which stretches 2000+ miles from Springer Mountain in Georgia to Mount Katahdin in Maine, passing through eleven states and populated with all kinds of peril imaginable.
And combined the trials of the trail, the fact that Bryson is supremely unfit to do any kind of extended strenuous activity, does not know the first thing about hiking, and is accompanied by the recovering alcoholic Stephen Katz who is even less fit does nothing to alleviate his apprehensions.He sets of gamely, however - and what we get is a travelogue-cum-science-cum-history-cum-geography lesson.
Definitely read the book if you're a fan of the outdoors and hiking. I learned about the book after watching the movie, and let me say, the book to me was much better.
I chose this book in hopes it would rekindle my appetite for hiking. The book easily did that. I also found this to be such a pleasurable read. I looked forward at every stolen opportunity to read another chapter. It delivered each time.
I have read most of Bill Bryson's books and they are all good-- excellent even.
Where you or I might see a man walking down the street he sees something, and articulates it so well, packed with humor.
But this book is his best.
So the premise of the book is already good before you even start reading.
Whether you hike or not, laugh or not, enjoy Bryson or not you should read this it will change your mind or affirm what you already knew-- Bryson is the best at what he does.
I do admit that this isn't the kind of book that I usually read but a humorous non-fiction story about hiking the Appalachian Trail sounded fabulous.
All too often, I felt like skipping entire sections of the book so that I could get back to the actual hike.I had hoped that this was going to be one of those side splitting funny kind of books.
Don't get me wrong, I can tell that Bill Bryson is a very funny guy but I need a lot more of those kind of moments to offset the parts of the book that were dry.
I enjoyed Bryson's many educational tangents into the history of the area they were currently walking through.Why only four stars then?
Well, there isn't really anything wrong with the book that I can exactly put my finger on, but I just didn't enjoy it quite enough to warrant the full five stars.
Maybe some of the historical tangents are just a little too tangential.
Maybe I'm just an arse.Despite this, I certainly enjoyed it enough to read more Bryson in the future.
It's not like I can read more Bryson in the past...)
I feel that Bryson's vision of his fellow Americans is largely a mirror image of himself(view spoiler)[ and viewed too close he finds the reflection horrible, back on the other side of the Atlantic it is, to mangle popular sayings, enticingly greener  (hide spoiler)], an intellectual butterfly that prefers to flitter than to seriously engage with anything and so with regard to the management of the National Parks I note that ecology is hard, mismanagement from one perspective or another near inevitable.Overwhelmingly I felt he would have preferred to have been walking in England - start the day in a pub, finish in a pub, unless unlucky lunch in a pub too, a rich collection of charming eccentrics on the footpaths admiring a landscape which by US standards would be dreary with nothing wilder than some sheep in sight.This a deeply, thoroughly and utterly ok kind of book, completely middle of the road.
The author and his friend did not get to hike the entire trail as they had originally intended, which was not only disappointing for them, but for me as well.
I learned about the history of the trail and how the whole thing works.
I previously had no idea that the trail sometimes crosses roads and rivers and whatnot-I had this picture of a pristine wilderness in my head and while some parts are just that, others are not.
Overall this was fun and I learned some things, so 3 stars it is.Thanks to my local library for the loan of this audiobook.
Libraries RULE!
It's the longest armchair hike I've ever taken and I've enjoyed every minute of it. I know I will never do this for real so this is next best. I enjoyed reading about the history of the AT and all the other stories that BB included in the report of his adventures.
At time of publishing, the AT was around 2200 miles of wilderness and was the longest continuous footpath in the world.
(Their unpreparedness for a walk of this magnitude reminded me a little of Wild by Cheryl Strayed - although Bryson's book was published 15 years before hers).
Bryson spins an entertaining tale of their highs and lows, the people they met, the cold, the heat, the best and worst of their experiences, in a humorous manner interspersed with factual information about the history of the AT, the geology, biology, flora and fauna.
Bryson tells the story of his hiking up the Appalachian Trail (AT for short) with his friend, Stephen Katz.
His friend is quite a character, and I sort of wonder if he is a real person, or if he is "invented".
But--Katz is such a wonderful character, he is probably real, because "inventing" him would be nearly impossible.
But--I love the stories that Bryson tells along the way.I didn't read this book--I listened to it as an audiobook.
Rob McQuay does a great job narrating, and I look forward to listening to other books that are read by him.
Bill Bryson and Katz kept me laughing and entertained for hours.
I latterly was laugh crying at points and my wife walked in and asked what the heck I was reading.
Bryson and Katz spend several weeks on the trail, hiking 500 miles in their first section.
Then the two take a break and return home for a few weeks, and Bryson resumes with some shorter hikes in New England.
Katz and Bryson reunite in Maine to hike a particularly daunting section of the trail called the Hundred Mile Wilderness.
i always tell people that they will either love this (and most of his other) books to death, or that they will find them utterly unamusing. i find them hilarious. i have never laughed so hard while reading a book as with Bryson's books. Give it a go--you'll know after the first few chapters whether you share his witty, tasteful sense of humor or not:)
Pure Bryson delight, as well as an informative history about the Appalachian Trail. Although I could never imagine Robert Redford portraying Bill Bryson, the film version is pretty funny, with Nick Nolte adding great comic relief. Highly recommended.
Yet, he decides he wants to walk the Appalachian Trail and write a book about it.
So he gets together with a fat, not-very-nice smoker, and then mostly writes about how strange other people are out on the trail.In fact, the book mostly relies on our two heroes running into people that they find goofy -- or who they simply don't like and want to make fun of.
For the record, I loved "Measure of a Mountain," by Bruce Barcott.
But maybe that's because Barcott loved being in the mountains and expressed it well.
I really enjoyed A Walk in the Woods, the first book I've read by Bill Bryson.
I enjoyed Part 1, where Katz was Bryson's trail companion, more than Part 2 but still liked all of it.
The book has a very good balance of story, humor (including plenty of sarcasm), and Appalachian Trail history and information.
I am a day-nature-r, enjoying outdoorsy activities for the day, usually one day at a time, and if anything, am more of a Glamper than a Camper.
While there are plenty of differences, Into the Wild and Wild are among some of my all-time favorite books, and I'm not surprised I really enjoyed this one too.
