https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/566574.Out_of_the_Crisis
Reading Deming showed me how to be a better manager without conforming to the American de rigueur process of obtaining the MBA, which I've always detested as a poor learning platform for real leadership.
(Leadership can't be taught; rather, it must be learned.) Deming brought crippled Japanese manufacturing back into the modern age.
Typical of prophets, he was not heeded much in his home country-- America, When the Japanese heard him lecture as one of General Douglas MacArthur's staff they immediately took to his methods of management which led to processes such as TQM--Total Quality Management, and Japan developed into one of the world's leaders of modern manufacturing.If one is studying leadership, they must in my opinion, include a good dose of Deming.
I really took my time reading this book to ensure that I understood it everything he talked about.
The big take away I have from this book is not a 14 principles, not the deadly diseases and not the obstacles.
So much of what he talked about in the second half of the book was over my head.I know now that I need to incorporate some accelerated statistical learning into my future.I did enjoy this book and my guess is after furthering my understanding of statistics, this will be come a 5 star book.
This book is a must read if you want to be a great manager.
It's easy to read and the author's style is interesting.
Deming's insights into business process is timeless.
Deming best summarizes the purpose of the book: "This book teaches the transformation that is required for survival, a transformation that can only be accomplished by man.
A company can not buy its way into quality - it must be led into quality by top management.
A theory of management now exists.
Never again may anyone say that there is nothing new in management to teach.".
Я для себя называю эти категории так:  1.
Легкий, поверхностный менеджмент, который наиболее часто встречается и в книгах и на практике, то есть в жизни;  2.
Продвинутый менеджмент, встречается не так часто не только в деловой литературе, но и даже в корпоративном мире; 3.
Глубоководный, менеджмент для избранных и для тех, кого не удовлетворяет даже продвинутый уровень, кто стремится не только на тактической, но и на стратегической плоскости достичь самых высоких результатов и лидировать на своем рынке постоянно и неизменно.Побольше бы таких книг, таких авторов, и еще больше последователей тех знаний, которые бы не только несли их в деловой мир, но и повсеместно реализовывали в компаниях и государствах и организациях по всему миру.
A classic, as relevant now as it was when it was published. We keep looking for silver bullets in the area of quality, partly because quality problems can hard to solve. This book, and its successor (The New Economics), guided me through a lot of obfuscation around quality, ultimately leading me to Lean, which I think Deming would have supported (although, like TQM, he would not have used the term).Whatever you call it - Deming's System of Profound Knowledge, Lean, agile, Operational Excellence - Deming shows that respect for the worker is at the heart of improvement.
This is obviously a classic. I picked up a used copy for pennies and have been re-reading his work. I am particularly interested in the origins of his Plan, Do, Check, Act theory. Just a great work that never ages.
This book is to management what The Republic is to philosophy.
Of all the content of the book, I'd like to highlight that Deming gives much credit to Walter Shewhart for being the true father of statistical analysis of process.As for the style and writing, the book is such a mess that you could spend 3 years researching a doctoral thesis on its flaws, but in 30 minutes this is what I've got...Most of the content in the book is repetitive and non-specific, despite the use of language that attempts to make it sound specific..
For some reason this really bothered me.One perfect example, opening to a random page deep in the book is this short paragraph in Ch 11:"What characteristic or characteristics are important?

Deming's claim to fame was teaching the Japanese about quality improvement principles in manufacturing, which Japanese companies then applied and consequently became world leaders in excellence.
Most of what Deming puts forth is intuitive: management must have an understanding of what each job entails (best if they actually have done the work), the ability to focus on the "long run" for their organizations (not just making quarterly profits), and instill a committment to excellence.
Unfortunately, common sense is not a common commodity regardless of ones rank, which is why Deming is seen as a quality revolutionary.
Deming can be dry at times, and some things are more challenging to translate to the service industry, but it's a worthy read.
One of the most helpful perspectives/books I've read on using data to improve execution and business performance. While it may be a bit long and seem repetitive, the book can be digested in chapters as one does a textbook. Highly recommend to those who work in operations roles or anyone seeking a perspective on the barriers that get in the way of excellence in execution.
An American classic. This book is packed with information about using statistics to solve quality problems in manufacturing, medicine, and almost all fields of endeavor. I highly recommend this book to engineers, doctors, scientists, and manufacturing workers.
This book was included in my book: The 100 Best Business Books of All Time. www.100bestbiz.com
It has taken me many years to be at a point that I could understand this book.This is a superior management text.
Create constancy of purpose toward improvement of product and service, with the aim to become competitive and to stay in business, and to provide jobs.2.
Eliminate the need for inspection on a mass basis by building quality into the product in the first place.4.
Eliminate slogans, exhortations, and targets for the work force asking for zero defects and new levels of productivity.
Such exhortations only create adversarial relationships, as the bulk of the causes of low quality and low productivity belong to the system and thus lie beyond the power of the work force.11a.
A legend in management techniques using statistical methods. Famous for the 14 principles of management. You can feel the confidence and experience in his reports to clients and his conditions for taking new clients. Nevertheless, the book is repetitive, and at a certain point I didn't feel the return on investment in reading additional chapters was high. Still four stars, a very valuable reference!
I couldn't finish it. Its rather dated now
While this book is over 30 years old and predates the "Agile" movement, many of the concepts and recommendations that Deming makes align to the values & principles of the agile manifesto.A call to actionAlthough written in the context of American manufacturing, Out of the Crisis was a call to action for companies to address systemic problems in the way that western management operated.
By treating an organisation as a system, sustainable business growth can be driven through the successful management of interactions between business functions, investment in innovation and strong staff engagement.My final thoughts; this is a great book and has remained relevant throughout the last 3 decades.
In my book Deming sets the standard for clear, efficient non-fiction writing.
He draws heavily on personal experience and makes heavy use of examples to illustrate good and poor organization and management systems.
The format feels somewhat like a personal notebook, using almost "bullet point" writing for efficiency instead of stylistic narrative.
While he does not read "like a book," it makes for easy excerpts.
Furthermore, he starts each chapter by explicitly stating the purpose and goal of the chapter, illustrating his direct and to-the-point style.
This book should be standard reading for all management.
If you're in the statistics field this is a seminal work.
If you're familiar with Lean and Toyota Production Systems, and eliminating waste, this is good foundational reading.The key takeaway are Deming's 14 points: 1.
Create constancy of purpose for improvement of product and service; 2.
Improve constantly and forever every process for planning, production, and service; 6.
Adopt and institute leadership; 8.
Eliminate slogans, exhortations, and targets for the work force; 11.
Eliminate numerical quotas for the work force and numerical goals for management; 12.
Institute a vigorous program of education and self-improvement for all; and 14.
I've read a fair share of books of Lean and I attended the IHI improvement conference. They have Deming as their "godfather". This book really put things in perspective. How we manage our business and how we should.The statistical approach is prominent in this book, more than any other I've read. Already I'm experimenting with his thoughts in worksettings.For me this book will be a foundation for further development and thinking.
Old time manufacturing people (like me) live and die by this book. The statistical process control (SPC) methodology still holds true. The 14 Points remain valid. Deming taught SPC to war torn Japan back in the mid 1940s. Their manufacturing quality excelled. I attended Deming's four-day workshop when he was alive. He was the master.
Had to acknowledgeThe years I spenttrying to followa corporate versionof this philosophyand the many bookson the subjectI finished during that timeare probably buried in obscuritybut my it sure was fun
I am the COO at a service corporation and found this book extremely helpful. Some aspects don't really apply (like inventory control, for example), however, the majority of this book focuses on sound management practices that are relevant across the board.
this book is not at all an easy read. it is ok considering the fact that this book deals with something that is really valid and applicable to any industry. PDCA as a method is well publicised by Japanese companies and in the software world, by agile values and principles.
Deming is difficult to read & understand, but he holds the true keys to success - if you implement his 14 principles, your might become as successful as Toyota (who followed his teachings).
Great ideas, terrible writing.
W Edwards Deming is the forerunner in the Field of systems thinking and management thinking, and a must read for any serious leader
The best book I've ever read about Quality, quality management in any industry or process. A must read for anybody with an interest in Quality and lean / kanban processes.
I would put this in my top ten of books that have had an impact on how I think...The BibleThe ShackFree to ChooseOut of the Crisis
