https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6654313-linger
I wasn't blown away by Shiver, but that doesn't mean I wasn't eagerly waiting for Linger.
I seem to be in the minority here, but I liked Linger more than I did Shiver.
writes sappy love songs4.
I still like Grace though.
So I'm glad for the new POV of Isabel and Cole.
I've always liked Isabel.
And I don't care much about Isabel and Cole as a couple.
The story would be absolutely suckish if the writing wasn't so good, which is probably why I was able to tolerate the slow pace.
;-)Don’t worry, I’m pretty sure the “yucky romance” won’t be that bad… well, at least I think it won’t be.
I’ll give no guarantee though, because I’m secretly hoping that there will be lots of yucky romantic moments for me.
*lol*Okay, if I’m already honest I might as well add that I hope you’ll enjoy all the lovey dovey scenes, because I still want to turn you into a hopeless romantic that loves to read yucky romance!!!
That’s my evil plan and the only reason I make you read those books!
;-PMay the “yucky romance” force be with me!
“She made her home in between the pages of books.”Don't need to say much about this one. It's a worthy follow-up to Shiver and a perfect prequel to Forever. I loved this series. It's perfect for a wintery night or two and a hot cup of tea.Find more of my books on Instagram
I'm really not sure why they behaved the way they did - maybe there will be an explanation in the next book - but to me, it felt like a rather weak plot device to make Grace and Sam's relationship more difficult and add a forbidden flavour.All in all, I couldn't shake the feeling that some of the conflicts here were only created to have something to write about, therefore only three stars from me.
The feeling sucked.But to prove that I really read the book, here's a short synopsis:Spoiler Alert!
Grace is sick, but she tries hiding this from Sam. They try having a relationship, but her parents get in between.
And apparently, the only thing that could save her is to turn wolf.
The End. End of Spoilers.I read this book, because I had a reading challenge, where I should pick something with an artsy cover.
But this book sure defines a reading challenge.
Just like what I feel when I read a dictionary.
The story was so good, usually 2nd books in series are all boring, but I kept reading and reading waiting to see what happened.
His character is amazing and I loved his POV chapters.
Honestly these books the different POVs work so well, like you can really tell who you're reading from and they all work so good within the story!
I'm usually not a fan when there's more than 2 POVs but 4 actually worked so great, I'm so falling in love with Maggie's writing.
I need everyone to read this series like rn...I'm gonna go start book 3...
In addition, Grace’s parents finally started noticing things and decided to start honing their parenting skills.Linger brings us two additional POVs. We get to see some of the events through the eyes of Isabel, to whom we were introduced in Shiver, and Cole, one of the new wolves.
I did my best to find a flaw in Linger – this may sound odd, but I wanted to have at least one small thing to complain about because I thought it would add credibility to the rest of my review.
Originally, when I first finished reading Shiver I had no intention of reading Linger (or any other book of the series for that matter), I was flawlessly happy and content with how it ended, but then I read some great reviews about the sequel and I went for it.
I thought that the two following installments weren't loyal to the first book and they were a mayor disappointment for me.Today (August 17, 2018), I answered a friend's comment that got me thinking.
Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow.I can't even describe how I feel right now..I love this book so much :(
After pretty much loving Shiver despite its flaws like the lack of plot and the bleeding-womb-incident, I was really looking forward to Linger. Well, I really hate to say it, but I did not love Linger. I tried to love it, but sadly, I just don’t. And here is why:1. Plot I did not care for the plot, or rather, the lack thereof. What little mystery and suspense there could have been never even gets a chance due to the spoilery prologue, that pretty much sums up the whole book. What Shiver lacked i
After pretty much loving Shiver despite its flaws like the lack of plot and the bleeding-womb-incident, I was really looking forward to Linger.
The parentsI had no problem, with the portrayal of Grace’s parents in Shiver.
And Grace’s mother loved Sam in Shiver.
The worst part was, when they both totally ignore the fact that Grace is getting worse and worse and refuse to talk about what this could mean.
Another thing about the end that bothered me was that I distinctly remember Maggie Stiefvater stating, that she herself did not care for cliffhangers and would write her books in a way that they could be standalones, even when part of a series.
For me, Linger was like a cool-down lap around the track: the story moved at a steadier pace, and that enabled the reader (me) to examine characters a little better and focus on other parts of the story that took a back seat to the main upfront obstacle of Shiver.
What made characterization of this story so enjoyable to me was a the delicate balance of similar and contrasting behaviors - Isabel and Cole are not such polar opposites from Grace and Sam that they have nothing in common.
i have no idea why there’s a book after Shiver with an ending like that but here we are.
Shiver felt like it was being dragged and Linger did too.
tHiS wAs EvErY sInGlE cHaPtEr AbOuT sAm, PlEaSe StOp I’m DyInG.the series 100% could’ve ended after the first book.
i feel like this whole book just created a list of new problems that weren’t elaborated a lot and made the whole book really confusing.
they weren’t necessary problems, kinda just felt like they were floating around in the book, kinda there, but kinda not.
For a book supposedly about wolves, this book has surprisingly little actual wolf content and, instead, has been dominated by some love-struck teenagers and their boring, angsty romance. 400 pages of teens lamenting their inability to sleep next to each other, is a bit too much for me... And the total lack of any other plot sealed this book's fate!If not for Stiefvater's evocative depictions of the wooded setting this book would have had zero positive features. I am sold on her ability as a tremendously competent writer, just not on this particular story, which I find dull and uninspiring.
"If you don’t have memories, it’s like you never existed."  Linger is book 2 of the The Wolves of Mercy Falls series, a sequel to Shiver.The Prologue says almost everything about the story, so the ending is not very surprising. Despite its predictability, the story has still many beautiful and heartbreaking moments. Linger is melancholy, sometimes maddening and frustrating with Grace’s mysterious illness, Sam’s misgivings and disorientation, Cole’s emptiness and suicidal thoughts, Isabel’s sad
Linger is book 2 of the The Wolves of Mercy Falls series, a sequel to Shiver.The Prologue says almost everything about the story, so the ending is not very surprising.
All of this is intertwined with the refreshing viewpoints of Isabel and Cole, making the story lively, even funny.I like Isabel, she is so harsh, bright, and vibrant.
I am wondering if it is an explanation for Cole and Victor’s completely different reactions to wolf-toxin.
I hoped that he would become a stronger character than he was in Shiver, but it didn't happen.- Grace - I don’t understand why Grace thinks that not talking to Sam about her illness is a good idea.
I could not bear the agony of not knowing what happened to these magnificently drawn characters.Instead of receiving narration from just Sam and Grace, Isabel and newcomer Cole also get to share their side of the story.
Although it seems like having four paradigms instead of a single pair may detract from the story, the addition of Isabel and Cole only enhanced the depth of these characters.
Grace and Sam’s chemistry was touching as always, but there was something about the relationship between Isabel and Cole that might have ignited an even larger fire in my heart.
In the second installment to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series: Sam is having trouble believing in his cure, Grace is acting strangely and feeling like she doesn't fit into her own skin anymore, and a new wolf is in Mercy Falls: Cole, the once lead singer of a popular rock band, NARKOTIKA, is dealing with the issues of straddling the line between man and wolf.
And the reactions and emotions Cole has towards the end of Linger give me hope that I'll like him even more in Forever.Linger is quite different than its predecessor, Shiver – what with Sam now being human and the introduction of a new character, Cole.
Didn't like it as much as Shiver, but it was still amazing <3
Isabel and Cole are by far much more interesting than Sam and Grace.
Linger gets off to a slow start - which I didn’t mind b/c the prose is engaging and I liked the characters from last time - so it was nice to settle into the groove.
I also feel like Shiver is a great stand-alone book ~ it wraps things up quite nicely and I would prefer to leave this series at that.Note: I don't read a lot of YA paranormal romance* ~ so keep that in mind, haha ~ if you love the genre, you'll probably enjoy this more than I did.
*Books like this are probably why :)
I feared the whole book that Grace was going to die or turn into a wolf.We get to know Cole, a new wolf in this book.
I really liked Cole, even though he came off as a cocky ass most of the time.Isabelle, Grace’s friend, has a large role in this book as well.
Each chapter was headed by whose POV it was, but if I put the book down and came back later I’d forgot who I was reading because the thinking was pretty similar.
it felt like the main characters - sam & grace were just going through the motions and their story dragged on with absolutely NOTHING interesting happening.
i can't speak for everyone but when i read shiver's ending, i knew sam and grace's situations were going to be reversed and i thought linger would deal with the aftermath.
also, sam and grace's voices don't sound like teenagers at all!
and when isabel was pounding on sam about taking care of the wolves and finding out what was wrong with grace, i was thinking along with her: damn right!
OMG :c Tengo que calmarme con otras lecturas antes de seguir con el último libro
I can say that Maggie still showed her talent of writing beautifully in this novel, the way she wrote it was really really good that it made the book tolerable despite its flaws.
The book was more on romance than action and the conflict mostly was with Sam and Grace's parents which I don't buy.
I just didn't get the theory yet it seems hard to believe and it was also not explain very well.But if you like Shiver, it's okay to read it, just don't have high expectations so you'd not be disappointed.
Except I loved Shiver and truth be told, I always fret a little bit about sequels.
I mean, can an author capture that feeling of my first infatuation with a book?
That delicious little feeling of "Wow, I have to keep reading this?"Well, I have to say that Maggie Stiefvater did.
There's more...in fact there are four POVs represented in the book.
And while some might think that sounds confusing, I have to tell you that it was brilliant to read four POVs. Just brilliant.
The one year long wait until the final installment, Forever, is released.
What a very long year that will be.
As you know, instead of Shiver's two characters-Grace and Sam-we have four; the original two along with Isabel and Cole.I felt like the plot buildup was a little slow.
This could be done on-purpose, but I felt like I was ignoring it, just to find out it was the main problem.Instead, I found myself focusing on Sam and his problem with Cole, which didn't turn out the way I expected it to.
After reading Shiver, I felt this way about Linger; the initial desire is slowly fading as I await book 3.
How do you start the review of one of the best books you have ever read?
I'll do my best.Linger is the story of Sam, Grace, Isabel with the introduction of a new character to the mix Cole.I don't believe in spoilers.
I read the book in one sitting.
This second book makes the trilogy's concept stronger, the characters more colorful, human, deep and believable.
Maggie takes you for an amazing ride, going through Sam's heart felt emotions, Isabel's constant needs for security, Grace's changes from the inside out, and Cole.
But overall, the story did deliver at the final hour and I think fans of Shiver will be pleased with this installment.I will note that I read Shiver over nine months ago and I did have a hard time transitioning into the storyline because I don’t feel Stiefvater offers any assistance in that area.
So I wish I would have re-read Shiver before jumping into the sequel because I was struggling for a bit to recall the details I felt were relevant to the story.In this installment, Grace has suddenly found herself under the watchful eye of her once MIA parents.
New character, new point of views, new realizations.As a Shiver fan, I was worried that these two new point of views (Isabel and Cole) would just be painful chapters while waiting for Sam and Grace to talk, but this was not the case.
Part of this is because Maggie's writing creates a conversation in your head where ten pages feel like one, and when it's over, you look up and realize that it's gone, not real.Another part was because of the characters.
Maggie has created real human beings, people who you get to know, love, hate, and care for.
Υπέροχο!!!" Είναι για μένα;"" Όλα μου τα τραγούδια είναι για σένα" είπε ο Σαμ." Όχι βιασύνες"." Για σένα όχι. Εσύ πρέπει απλώς να κολυμπάς μέσα στη ζωή και να είσαι η Γκρέις, κι εγώ είμαι αυτός που πρέπει να τρέχει για να προλαβαίνει δημιουργικά και στιχουργικά το πως αλλάζεις. Δεν είσαι ακίνητος στόχος, ξέρεις".
A sudden pop, a foot on a floorboard, and then the door creeping softly open.For a single, tiny moment, I thought it might be Sam, somehow, miraculously sneaking in.
My father came in a few, hesitant steps, and I thought, with a surprise,  He's checking to see if I'm all right.
But then he lifted his chin just a little bit, to look at a place just beyond me, and I realized that he wasn't here to make sure I was all right.
Oh, and of course I must address the elephant in the room, the other horrible parent in this series.
