https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122210.Mama
My opinion has changed a lot about this book over the years. I am very shocked that I read this at 12 years old (and was not traumatized by it), and I now completely understand why my mother side eyed me and begrudgingly allowed me to read her copy back then.I think McMillan did a great job for this to be her first novel, though it's obvious that her writing strengthened with Disappearing Acts and Waiting to Exhale. Lot of tough and heavy themes, and spunky dialogue. Kinda perfect for a book club discussion.
The family portrayed here made me feel bad, made me wish for better but certainly felt very real. I think these are people we all know. They may be members of our families. I have 3 copies of this book. Accidentally, I loaned one out and it never came back to me and I kept replacing that copy, lol. This book is just too good not to own. It is a far cry from some the superficial books that I have read that have tried to cover similar subject matter, with not as much success.
this is one of my favorite books. i have read this at least five times since 1995 and now own it in hardcover. i love the characters and how the author does a great job at creating real emotions and situations for this family and their dynamics. i think terry mcmillan's best work...
As a huge McMillan fan, I'm surprised to be the last (it seems) to read this awesome book!Wonderful character and setting development. Of all of her novels, this most deserves movie adaption.I will keep my fingers crossed!
My Mum bought this for me in '92 when she was at Hillcroft college.
I remember it was an quick read in terms of pace and a slice of harsh reality in terms of ambition and attainment of creating a better life as a woman on her own.
I remember being grateful of my Mum, failings included, and mindful of her struggles in getting us where we were.
I went on to read Disappearing Acts and Waiting to Exhale and whilst these novels were of the same style in writing, Ms McMillan wasn't able to recreate the slice of social commentary as Mama.
Mama; Mildred Peacock, proud black woman!
She's broke.
Lives in a poverty-stricken neighborhood in a broken down house.
After a violent fight, she puts out her no good violently abusive husband!!
And rightly so, because even though he didn't have a job, he kept a mistress!!
Mama is 27 with 5 children.
I loved this book as it was Terry McMillan' first novel!!!
It was the hottest book back in the day being read by so many.
Also, though this is a sad situation, Mama is portrayed as one who struggles to overcome her plight.
This is an easy very good read.
I started reading this book in grade school, after I finding it in the school library, but never finished.
It wasn't until a few years later that I picked it up again, after my brother brought it home from school.
We all took something from the story and enjoyed it so much, that we took on characters from the book.
I was given the character Freida (whether I wanted it or not) who I still have some things in common with to this day.
Anyway, this book was another family bonding agent that I will never forget.
Its a hard book to read a times (the subject matter, not the writing).
Sometimes I feel like writers make it seem like someone's life is just all bad all the time.
And that is definitely true for some folks in real life, especially for poor Black folks, but it gets hard to read sometimes.
Glad to see Mama had some good days to go along with the bad.
I think with so may children the book was stretched a bit thin in that we didn't get to know all of them as much as I would have liked.
This book is honest and raw.
All men should actually read this.
The feelings of women can't be more honest than this.This is the second time I have read the book but I never got bored.
I still devoured every word.The thing with McMillan is that her novels are written in such a way that makes you feel like you are having a heart to heart conversation with the characters.She does not care about punctuation or grammar or words.
She writes the words the way the characters say it.
Exhausting to read sometimes but oh so rewarding.
I have enjoyed reading Terry McMillan's books from the moment I picked up "Waiting to Exhale" and "How Stella Got Her Groove Back." I love Ms. McMillian's sassiness in her characters and her straight forward, in your face approach.This book was another hit as far as I am concerned.
She whinned to much for me and I would not have given her my forwarding address if I were one of her children.
God's hands were helping these children survive and thrive in a desolate place.Terry, thanks for writing this story.
I am looking forward to reading your next book.
This is a book that I read many years ago and a book that I feel never received its proper celebration. It landed as an honest depiction of many single parent homes with a broken spirited mother, simply trying to hold it together. I loved this book so much!
I was surprised by how young Mildred Peacock's character is at the start of the story.
Mildred defends herself and then follows-up with having loud sex with Crook knowing the children can hear them.Parents are far from perfect.
Mildred doesn't come close, but she has an unwavering love for her children that is clearly illustrated in this story.
Overall, this is a coming of age story and the reader can see growth in almost all of the characters.
Angel more than Bootsey, but to be fair there are a lot of characters in this story and it's difficult to dig deeply into each of them.
This book was somewhat well written (except for the all too elementary and obvious names--Deadman, Money, etc.) because it passed my 50 page test, so I actually completed it, but even my favorite character, Freda, was disappointing and inconsistent.
There was some suggestion of hope in the book, but it was too little too late after being bombarded with such a display of meanness and stupidity for so many pages.
This book did little to enlighten about the human condition, and there was no real point to all of the misery, in my opinion.
It's not for me to enjoy Terry McMillan. I have tried, and I have found that she is like a person who is telling you a story about people you don't care to know at all. When the story is over, you feel like you have wasted your time listening (or reading in this case) to a story about people you don't care. Because I never get invested in her characters, I don't care for her books. I'm glad that I read this because I found what it was that I do not like about her writing.
Mama is reminiscent of so many mothers -- me included.
Mildred Peacock, or Mama, was one of the most memorable characters I have ever encountered. I enjoyed this book immensely.
Still my favorite McMillan novel.
Sometimes hardship manages to relinquish the flame from our spirits like a chilling wind does a midnight candle under the porch light .
Time and time again our Mamas' have been the light we can count on after the darkness , along with our siblings being the oxygen we need to keep the flames blowing in the darkness .
Not only does she remind us of the strength and need to have our Family's remain close knit , but she intertwined the greatness of GOD ever so neatly in and around the tapestry of a unforgettable masterpiece.
This book is about Mildred, a black woman who is trying to raise her five children all on her own. The family is poor and as they continue to struggle, Mildred tries to have faith that things will get better. I thought this was a touching story of the love a mother has for her children and I admire Mildred for being strong despite her situation. After reading this book, I became a fan of Terry McMillan!
I really enjoyed this story of Mildred, her five children, and her three husbands. Mildred was a complicated woman down deep who rarely showed her emotions. Dhe just wanted what everyone wants. ..to be happy but she takes numerous detours along the, way. Freda who is the eldest is more like her mother than she thinks. Their bond is the strongest
My eyes are misty! I was able to predict the ending, but it was still beautiful. Emotionally abusive mom? I don't think so! Mildred is the type of mom that so many people have. Strict, uncaring, selfish, and downright mean...yet you can't imagine what the hell you'd do without her. I will be rereading MAMA again one day for sure.
I read this book when I was about 9 or 10 years old... It was my introduction to "adult" literature. From that point on, I was hooked. Needless to say, I don't remember specifics, just the feeling and expansive impact it had on me. I'm thankful for that.
My favorite book by Terry McMillan. Borrowed it from my roommate while stationed in Korea.I couldn't put it down!
I don't like to read books over and over but I can read this one every single year and find something new I love about it
This is my favorite book by Terry McMillian! I have read it numerous times and plan to read it again and again! She should do a sequelor prequel.
This was a really good book. I read it for the first time about 20 yrs ago but iv'e read it a couple of times since then also.
One of my favorite books of all time!
I LOVED this book!!!
Terry captured my heart with this one, I can't even read it again because it makes me think of my grandma GOD rest her Soul who passed this year. It truly depicts the typical black family. I love it.
I've loved everything I've read by Terry McMillan. But this may be my favorite. The characters and circumstances are realistic, and I appreciate the depth. Great writing.
