https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/605632.Gentlemen_Prefer_Blondes_But_Gentlemen_Marry_Brunettes
3.5/Tengo que reconocer que es una puntuación un poco trampa. Es decir, me reí mucho con el primer libro "Los caballeros las prefieren rubias", pero el segundo "Pero se casan con las morenas" se me hizo muy cuesta arriba.
One of the more grating choices Loos made (I suppose in order to illustrate Lorelei's immaturity and/or degree of education) was for her writing to heavily repeat "So then", " I mean", and other such useless phrases.
Not knowing by the end of page one (no exaggeration) whether I could handle reading an entire book of this, I scanned the next several pages and saw one of the "I mean" phrases almost every few sentences.
The first book is the diary belonging to Lorelei.
This is an excellent antidote for too much Hemingway! One of the funniest stories I have ever read. I especially love the part where Lorelei meets Freud (Dr. Froyd) and they discuss the topic of inhibitions and dreams. I think this book captures the American spirit quite nicely. Not a bad movie either by the way!
What a marvellous novella this turned out to be. Smart, engaging and uproariously funny – another great summer read for me.Gentlemen Prefer Blondes was the debut novel of the American screenwriter and author Anita Loos. (You can read a little more about her career here.) The book was an instant success on its release in 1925 – the individual sections had previously been published in Harper’s Bazaar, so the market was ripe for its appearance as a complete text.To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
Kind of a fun and quick read if you are in the mood for some light reading. This reminded me a lot of something you'd see in the New Yorker. The story was kind of silly at times, but the illustrations helped a bunch.
Funny. An excellent antidote for too much Fitzgerald and Hemingway.
I'm giving this five stars because I loved Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. While Dorothy has many of the best lines in GPB, her story, told in But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes, fell flat with me.
I chose this for an alternate text in my creative writing course and I truly enjoyed this book very much.
The way in which Anita Loos writes requires a bit of adjusting to and also having some history of the era helps the reading run smoother.
Loos is not always subtle and to me I think it works for her style, but for my own writing I truly think that adding some more mystery and just letting it grow produces something more long and memorable.
Simply put with Loo’s style of writing I know I will want to include humor to alleviate tensions or let the reader have a break.
It largely plays out as a series of humorous anecdotes as Lorelei and her friend Dorothy travel the world to be properly "educated." Presenting the story from Lorelei's point of view makes her own comments and actions all the more hilarious while also making Dorothy's comments so much fun, especially since Lorelei never really understands the full meaning of her friend's remarks.I really enjoyed the style and would love to read more by Loos.
These books are a fabulous portrayal of life in the 20s as seen through the eyes of the gold-digging blonde (in the literal and stereotypical sense).
Gentleman Prefer Blondes and its sequel But Gentleman Marry Brunettes haven't aged well in their 90 plus years.
She's a gold digger but really doesn't have the gold digger's ultimate goal in mind of landing the big one, instead she's more concerned with what she can get out of a man on the spot.
In But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes Lorelei documents the life of her bestie Dorothy.
Dorothy was raised in a traveling carnival with neglectful parents, prefers sketchy low lifes to gentlemen, was preyed upon by a pervy sheriff, has no refinement, lands a spot as a chorus girl in the Ziegfeld Follies marries a saxophone player, has a violent marriage, gets framed for dope possession and finally marries rich after her suitor starts to treat her like dirt.
Dorothy is a welcome snarky voice, though most of the snark sails right over Lorelei's head.This edition contains "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" and "But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes", plus a LOT of interesting back-story about the history of the books and their genesis.It also has illustrations from an early edition, but unfortunately many of them are very muddy in print; I wish they had been cleaned up more.These were the inspiration for the Marilyn Monroe movie, which was itself the inspiration for the Madonna "Material Girl" video- in which Madonna channels Lorelei for the dance number, and Dorothy for the context.
I read the little essay at the beginning of the book as well, once I had finished, and it's easy to forget that the world had never encountered anybody like Lorelei Lee before this book, at least not on the page.
And her friend Dorothy is even better, though I found But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes to be not quite as scintillating.
Dorothy's wisecracks got the biggest laughs out of me--like when she says, upon hearing Lorelei wax poetic about the Coty perfume shop in Place Vendôme, that Coty must have arrived, smelled Paris, and said, "Something must be done!" A quick, fun read with a brain, plus some scathing social commentary.
Un par de deliciosas novelitas sobre dos muchachas del siglo pasado con poca malicia y también poca sesera.
En algunos ámbitos han cambiado pocas cosas.La lectura es muy amena y rápida, lo único que puede impedir que devores el libro es el mundo real y sus dichosas agendas.
La edición me ha gustado mucho, la verdad es que me he desacostumbrado un poco a leer en papel, pero las fuentes usadas, la calidad del papel y el volver a ver una portada en color han sido muy vigorizantes.
Tendré que volver a hacer esto más a menudo.
Leer, digo, y también en papel.
http://xoxoxoe.blogspot.com/2012/06/g..."Both books are written as entries from Lorelei's diary.
Little Rock's most famous fictional debutante has decided to become a writer, and Lorelei never lacks for anything to say about herself and her endless quest for 'education,' or the merits and faults of those around her.
Comic misspellings are peppered throughout both books: 'Eyefull Tower,' 'safire,' 'Dr. Froyd,' 'negligay,' etc.
Lorelei always has her eye on the prize — and the next prize, and the next prize.
While very obviously of its time, I enjoyed this. Lorelei is smarter than you might first think, Dorothy is fab, and the two of them are wielded very cleverly to shine a light on the silliness of early 20th Century American society. Loos is a very sharp satirist with a great eye for the ridiculous, and while the style didn't completely draw me in, the characters and theme were entertaining enough to carry me through both short stories. A fun story, and a nice snapshot of a bygone era.
Puf, no me ha gustado. "Los caballeros las prefieren rubias" es más ameno, se ha llevado un 3. Pero la segunda parte, "Pero se casan con las morenas", me ha aburrido soberanamente. Pasaba las páginas sin prestar mucha atención,por lo que no me enteraba de demasiado. Una pena, pues pensaba que me iba a gustar más :(
A window into the 'flapper' days of the 1920s and decadent but strangely innocent lifestyles. Quirky, lively and funny, especially the element of satire/gentle mockery in the diary of the 'flapper'.
What fun to read these two books, from 1925 and 1928 - how very very different than the play or the movie. What a hoot to read.
What a silly, fun novel. Well, novels, as it's actually two novels in one book. Loos satirizes the times with Lorelei and Dorothy and their attempts to find money and love, but mostly money. I laughed out loud at some of the wonderful phrasings. The novel is Lorelei's diary, so it's riddled with grammatical mistakes and odd spellings, but nothing that isn't easily sorted out. The novel was written in 1925 and it is such a great trip back to another era. The story is absolutely ridiculous and for that reason, I loved it.
I've loved the movie Gentlemen Prefer Blondes since I was little, but I had no idea it was inspired by a book - much less a super successful book. This is another Backlisted find (here is the podcast) for me. I really enjoyed the light and silly story, although my brain insisted on reading it to me in Marilyn Monroe's voice, which really slowed down my reading.The forward, Biography of a Book, by the author herself, is especially delightful.
Loos has the wit of Dorothy Parker without the sarcastic bite. Her "dumb blonde" knows how to work a system that is stacked against her. Any book that makes me laugh out loud is a keeper. Boy, would Lorelei and Dorothy be a hoot to pal around with.
Smart, snappy, dynamic, hilarious. Lorelei is a diabolically charming narrator you can't help but love — for and in spite of her faults.
I'd give Gentlemen Prefer Blondes: The Illuminating Diary of a Professional Lady four stars if I had read it on its own.
High, highly recommended for a good laugh.But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes: The Illuminating Diary of a Professional Lady was a little disappointing.
It is told by Lorelei who is telling Dorothy's story.
Dorothy is funny in the book and always falls for the poor man rather than the rich one which Lorelei disapproves of.
I recommend reading this one, but perhaps give yourself a break between the two books.
And while I imagine Edith Wharton's calling it "the Great American Novel" may have been good-naturedly hyperbolic, there's no denying that it's an entertaining read, and probably has as much to say about American society in the jazz age as The Great Gatsby, if not more.Fans of the Jeeves & Wooster series may see parallels in Anita Loos's light-hearted but vicious society of upper-class hypocrisy and working-class naïveté.
But where Bertie Wooster has Jeeves to get him out of trouble, Lorelei and Dorothy have only their instinctive cunning.
In Gentlemen Marry Brunettes we get to hear her backstory from an itinerant carny to New York socialite, as told by Lorelei.
(1) Gentlemen Prefer Blondes...This was vastly better than I was expecting.
Turns out it's actually a biting satire on golddiggers and predatory male culture set in the affluent 'flapper' years...
A superb novel and I'm looking forward to the sequel!(2) But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes...The sequel to the more famous *Gentlemen Prefer Blondes* this novel tells the story of Dorothy Shaw, the best friend of golddigger Lorelei Lee, and her adventures among low life carnival types, her journey to New York and her involvement with the demi-monde of that city during the years of prohibition.
Much better than I was expecting...
It’s about entering into a world where everything – story, character, dialogue, prose style – works together to make reading one of life’s greatest pleasures.
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes epitomises this quality for me.
The faux-naive diary narrative is a hoot, of course, but scratch the surface and you’ll see why GPB has been described as ‘the greatest work of American philosophy ever written’.
The heroine, Lorelei Lee, is probably my favourite character in all fiction, and I often find myself writing and speaking in her voice.
I had no idea what to expect from the sequel, 'But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes.' However, as it was entirely about Dorothy who quickly became my favourite character, I thoroughly enjoyed it!
Unfortunately one of the reasons I picked it up was to get a handle of what Prohibition-era New York was like, and although the Prohibition was mentioned, Dorothy and Lorelei inhabit a world where street-thugs and policemen and society and call-girls intermingle improbably.
Case in point: Dorothy's boot-legging father supplied liquor for her wedding, and most of high society got well and truly wasted.
Like most people I suspect, it's the Monroe film that bought me towards Anita Loos' light-hearted romp through the cultural hinterland of 1920s American.
At least, I recognised the title from the film, and with vague allusions to Edith Wharton on the back cover, promptly picked it up.
In either case there is a teensy element of disappointment with the end product: Whilst generally amusing, it doesn't have the polish or archness of Dame Edith's prose, or the laugh-out-loud moments of the film, and Loos'/Lorelei's phonetic misspelling does rather jar at the start.However once you get going there's no looking back as Loos' heroines move from rich man to rich man, Ritz to Ritz, all in the name of becoming more 'educated'.
The "heroine" is so soulless that at times this actually made me sad - the phenomenon of extreme consumerism that we feel is exclusive to the 21st century is certainly alive and well in Loo's satire of the 20s woman, who is eerily reminiscent of our current crop of Paris Hilton-etcs.
While the language is certainly more refined (in the sense that it isn't fuck-this or fuck-that), the underlying desires for material items and histrionic love are certainly (and unfortunately) timeless.I loved the character of her friend Dorothy - hilarious.
This is especially interesting as a counterpoint to the more realistic view of 20s high society seen in novels like "The Great Gatsby."
I heard about this on Open Book in early 2010 and thought I'd actually read it, as to me it falls into the category of 'famous books everyone's heard of but no-one's read'.I was really pleasantly surprised.
The author's note at the beginning gives the context, and then you're launched into Lorelei's 1920s flapper social whirl.
It's American but I liked it even so!Lorelei is a disingenuous gold-digging babe, an IT girl.
It's short, but ideal for a train journey or a couple of nights of light reading.I'm very glad I've read it and would recommend it
