https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61880.Memory
but I think other people resent and reject the idea of a box; they prefer to live in what can be called a "liminal space" - that space between, that place of ambiguity and movement and looking towards what comes next.
Simon is the sort of character who has constructed his own perfect box - one that makes his career equal his actual self - only to find that box dismantled and his sureness of purpose and self destroyed as he moves into a purely liminal space.
As you can imagine from the above description the book is a big departure from the previous usual space opera genre with space ships shooting at each other and individual people doing the same and Miles emerging victorious.
This time it is more like a detective story - after our hero was done with his brooding which happened just before the middle of the book.
Do not expect the grand mystery of the type which would keep Agatha Christie awake at night guessing the identity of the culprit as it is fairly obvious from the beginning and it does not give much credit to Miles that he did not see it right away.
I wanted to cry, having been a witness to one of the most heart-wrenching, embarrassing, world-changing moments for two people who obviously have a lot of love and respect for one another.
Simon's deep disappointment, Miles' realization that he really, really scrued up and can't dig himself out of the pit he buried himself into, and the knowledge that either one would give anything to change it, but their honer would not let them, this was one of the most emotional and memorable scenes I have come across in a very long time.
Miles and Simon are forced to say goodbye to the very constructs the rest of the world has come to know of them and try to survive the total defragmentation....
This is my favorite of all the Vorkosigan books (although, oh my god, don't start here; you have to read all the ones that came before it to appreciate it), because in it, Bujold does something very difficult very well: she massively changes the main character of an ongoing, established series.Series tend to stagnate because authors don't let their characters develop in any but inconsequential ways.
But it became obvious, in the novels preceding Memory, that Bujold had written herself into a corner: Miles couldn't develop anymore without major changes to his life and his character.
This next novel is probably one of the most cogent and subtle of the stories, or at least it was probably one of the more profound.
Loss took on a brand new spin this time.
Loss of identity, purpose, and even his alternate life.
Simon's tale was as interesting and heartwarming as it was also full of loss.
Fortunately, he could call in some major chips to speed him along the right path.It was an enheartening novel, and infinitely less flashy than some of the previous ones, but probably one of the most satisfying.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my GIFTS AND GUILTY list.Regardless of how many books are already queued patiently on my reading list, unexpected gifts and guilt-trips will always see unplanned additions muscling their way in at the front.A few weeks ago I came down quite suddenly with the N
This book was a way down my reading list, but it was the one that found its way into my shaking hand and kept me company between my many naps.
Recovering from the Norovirus could have been a very tiring and lonely time – but Miles Vorkosigan has joined that elite group of fictional characters who feel like old friends in my head.
, and I was doing likewise in Cardiff – it felt like we helped each other through it.My admiration for Bujold grows with each and every book I read.
Miles.
Just saying.I thought the last entry did some great character changes, with Miles injury and Mark's metamorphis.
But here, Miles is in full-on identity crisis, and we also get to see Gregor making some life changes as well.
I loved that, because Gregor is such a big part of their lives, but is not seen as much.
So it was great to see him in such a happy place.
Of course, their actions in moving on with their lives are going to create some other changes.
It creates great scope to this great story.
I'm puzzled at the high rating in Goodreads.
One of the weaker books imho.Frankly half of the book nothing happens.
Brooding and depressed Miles is no fun.
It doesn't help that we're stuck on Barayar.Half way through we finally get some action due to new case.
But the culprit is quite obvious for the reader if not to Miles..."Some prices are just too high, no matter how much you may want the prize.
The one thing you can't trade for your heart's desire is your heart.""You go on.
There's nothing more to it, and there's no trick to make it easier.
No trick.
Listening to this series all out of order according to what I can find at the library. I continue to love this author's writing style and to love Miles of course.
During my initial exposure to the Vorkosigan books, this one was actually the first of them that I'd read, and prior to reread I had not revisited it since then.
I actually think it holds up very well indeed and actually forms a brilliant second volume of the soul-searching that began with the previous volume.The story starts with Miles back in action with the Dendarii Mercenaries.
This is a situation where Lord Vorkosigan is who's required rather than the little admiral.This book is an interesting one just from the point of view of a long series.
(view spoiler)[ The Imperial Auditor position is new to the series, well introduced by the description of the old one while our attention is mostly on Miles meeting his victim.
Even on my first read, I remember thinking this would be a perfect position for him, so when it is offered,  (hide spoiler)] it seemed a natural growth rather than pasted on.She also allows the characters to grow, change, & generally move through life.
(hide spoiler)] Their decisions are often hard ones & some are just a shame, but that just lends them more reality.All in all, I'm very pleased with both the book & the series.
Why come up smelling like, well if not like roses at least not like that solid waste stuff that's always hitting the rotary impeller whenever he gets involved.If you've followed Miles from early on in his "life" and like me have enjoyed his adventures then you won't be let down here.
While early on I found these books occasionally hitting "speed bumps" where the story slowed down over time and installments of the saga that were better than others.
Lives change in this one and we get not only a new adventure but the setup for and beginning what will follow.This is a good book, a satisfying addition to an excellent science fiction series.
This is not space opera, this is a mystery set in a science fiction world starring Miles Vorkosigan. Luckily I like mysteries and I like Miles (he's turning into one of my favorite fictional characters) so the book worked for me. It reminded me a bit of a Jhereg novel by Steven Brust, in fact, what would it take to get a Brust/Bujold crossover novel? Now, THAT would be a book for the ages!
Memory: An Identity Crisis for Miles - Which is the Real One?Memory is the 8th volume in the Miles Vorkosigan Saga (if you exclude the stand-alones Ethan of Athos and Falling Free), and represents an important transitional phase between his free-wheeling alter-ego as Admiral Miles Naismith of the Dendarii Mercenaries, and Lord Miles Vorkosigan, son of Count Aral Vorkosigan and a key member of Emperor Gregor's inner circle of Barrayaran leaders.
Therefore, of all the Miles Vorkosigan books, I felt this one was the least self-contained in the series, but a crucial transition point for Miles' character as he hits middle age and a sudden fork in his career and life path.The story opens with an action-packed rescue mission by the Dendarii mercenaries led by Miles, but quickly goes disastrously wrong.
It can be read alone as it represents a synthesis and resolution of the risky strategy taken in prior volumes by its protagonist Miles Vorkosigan in forging an alternative life to surmount his physical handicaps and restricted choices in the ruling class of a hereditary aristocracy.
Miles in his youth finds a way to thrive as the leader of a mercenary fleet tasked with undercover operations for the Imperial space navy and excels in diverse adventures in a galaxy of several competitive human empires connected by wormholes.
His depression over leaving his undercover life behind is turned around when he becomes engaged by a crisis surrounding a sudden medical problem of the Imperial intelligence director.
Yes, it was painful to watch and even though I've read the book many times I still wanted to smack Miles on the head and save him the pain.Memory is a book about moving on, forgiving yourself, accepting that not all screw-ups can be swept under the rug and that you won't always be able to turn defeat into victory.
Little did I know that I've just picked a book from what would eventually become my very favourite series, one I reach for when I'm feeling particularly down or when I can't get out of a reading slump.
Back then my English was awful, I had no idea ebooks existed and most of the books were publish before I could even read!
It's generally gotten better with each book I've read; the books layer themselves on top of each other like animation cels, gradually revealing a picture of more and more color and complexity.And while most of the characters are well-developed, it is Miles, the protagonist for most of the series, who must be the most fascinating of them all.
But it seems like it might, for a while - if you were unaware of market pressures, of the "rules" of narrative, of the fact that surely Bujold must love her character at least as much as any of her readers - you could imagine this being it for the "hyperactive little freak," as Miles' enemies (and exasperated friends) have occasionally referred to him.
I have dearly loved all of the Miles books, for a number of reasons.
I laughed, snickered and guffawed out loud more times than I can remember, and was genuinely moved by Miles' decision to lay his Peter Pan existence aside, in order to grow up.
For both Miles and myself, the change was unexpected, and our lives are moving in a direction that could not have been predicted, but we're moving forward.
And I'm, like Miles, not at all unhappy about it.
But whatever the reason, this chapter in the Vorkosigan saga is my most treasured.
The previous book is awesome space opera with great fight scenes.
I don’t think there’s a single fight scene in this whole book, except maybe when Miles has to extricate his dress boots from closet where a cat has had kittens.
He spends much of the book in a depressed funk caused by loosing his heart’s desire, loosing imperial permission to be the little admiral Miles Naismith and sail beyond the sunset having wacky adventures.
Poor guy, left with nothing except his likely position as third in line for the throne on a world where most people think he’s a dangerous mutant; fabulous wealth; and heavily armed men to take care of him.
Here we are at the bridging point between Miles' two careers. One, as admiral of the Dendarii Fleet, Naismith. The other? Well, if you're reading through them and haven't jumped ahead and seen, I'll leave the other to your discovery.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
How did I ever live without Lois Bujold in my life.
This is a transitional book in the series, basically detailing how Miles goes from being the outrageous and colorful Admiral Naismyth back to the less spectacular and far more Barrayaran Miles Vorkosigan.
Simon has always been a favorite character, but we don't really get a strong sense of him here, which is too bad, though it does a good job setting up his role in later books.
Bottom line: this will never be a favorite, but it does give an intimate look at a major turning point in Miles Vorkosigan's life.
This series definitely has my attention now. Persevering into a series that starts out not at all personally satisfactory is rarely a good idea. But I had so much of this series already in my library, plus I felt like I really should like this if not love it, as light reading. Surely there was more to it than I had found at first. This time the reading fairy godmother was on my side. Love it when that happens.
Something about how ImpSec is dealing with it doesn't sit well with Miles, and he feels it his duty, both to the Emperor and to the man who's been like another father to him, to get to the bottom of things.I was sure at the beginning that the book was going to be about how Miles got back this life he had created and that meant so much to him.
She'd been coming across as almost supernaturally perceptive about her family in previous books, so it was good to see that some of Miles' depths were hidden from her, as well as from the reader).That change in Miles' life marks a change of direction of the series as well, which is a move that I find hugely admirable.
I've read several of the Vorkosigan series...
but long enough ago that I can't recall which ones.
Which means that I should probably just read all of them.I believe that this particular one has more mystery and less action than many of the others in this series, but that was perfectly OK - it's still tense, complex, consistently interesting and compellingly readable.A combination of a medical problem and some remarkably bad decisions causes Miles Vorkosigan to lose his status as a Imperial Security covert ops agent.
4.5 stars. I am a big fan of this series and this is one of the better installments. Excellent character development (which is tough to continue to do for a character that has already appeared in so m any novels). Highly recommended. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1997)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1997)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1997)
Miles turns thirty and thirty hits back ... hard. This will be a short sweet review lacking in many details because nearly everything and anything I say will be a spoiler. Miles walks through some of his deepest, desperate valleys and climbs to new heights of integrity, honor and satisfaction. I stayed up late and woke up early just so I could keep reading. One of the best installments in the Vorkosigan Saga. I highly recommend it to space opera fans.
So good! It was nice to take a break from the action/adventure for a more character focused book. It was both heart wrenching and uplifting - and disturbingly familiar watching careers crumble and people having to find their true self and proceed on with their lives.
Would have been worth 5 stars for the followup to Mountains of Morning alone -- but that was fairly early in this marvelous book. And possibly not even the best part.
4.5 Stars fpr Audible versionOne of the best romps with Miles.
