https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29638254-the-secret-wife
Unlike many other stories centered on the Romanov family, which tend to speculate about Anastasia's fate, this book focuses on Tatiana Romanov.
The two fall in love, only to be separated thereafter by the overthrow of the Russian Tsar and the subsequent restrictions placed on the Romanov family.Even after the reported murder of the Romanovs, Dmitri holds out hope that Tatiana is alive.
Can he reconcile his love for Tatiana with the new life that he has made for himself and the wife that has stuck by his side throughout the years?All things considered, I expected this to be a much more emotional read.
This book is an amazing, epic love story, unlike any I’ve read in a long time!When Kitty Fischer makes a shocking discovery about her life and marriage, she flees England in search of the property in the Adirondacks she recently inherited.
This is a journey that will take the reader all the way back to 1914 where Dmitri is recovering from a war wound, and meets the great love of his life, Tatiana Romanov.
While Kitty does the research into her family tree and discovers the shocking truth about her grandfather, she is feverishly restoring the cabin she inherited, and avoiding contact with her husband until she figures out how to get her life back on track.
I know you will find many more lovers more deserving of your romance than me therefore I don't feel so bad parting on bad terms but I have my standards and you just don't meet them.
My words may seem harsh as many of your previously lovers raved about you but I feel honestly is the best policy and I know you will be partnered with someone else who will appreciate your romantic lines much more than me.
Great book!!! "Something" in this book didn't sit well with me. I was going to knock off a star as soon as I came across "it". My mind was made up however my opinion changed towards the end. I'm not saying "it's" okay but I understand. The heart wants what it wants!!!!
I been interested in the Romanovs for years and reading a mystery book about Grand Duchess Tatiana was too tempting to resist.
I was especially thrilled about reading about Tatiana instead of Anastasia who otherwise seems to be the most popular sister to write about.The Secret Wife has two storylines.
I especially like that the story took some surprising turns, that it turned out to be darker and sadder story than I had expected when I started to read the book.
I liked reading about how Kitty discovered more about her great-grandfather life and thus learning more about her family.
But a good read nevertheless.A mystery built around the Romanovs of Russia.
For instance: 'Dmitri had lost touch with his daughter Marta when he died and I have no idea why.’  Huh?
Oops!(Shouldn't the sentence read: 'Dmitri had lost touch with his daughter Marta  LONG BEFORE he died ...?)Another one: Kitty's computer sent an email from her drafts ...
:-))Aside from that, it was a good read, for those who did not know much about the Romanovs.
It gives the story substance.
This story is written in the same style as The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah.
However, just likeThe Tsarina's Daughter I couldn't help but get swept up in a huge historical "what if?" The whole premise is a dual narrative.
The first, takes place in Russia/Germany/America between 1914-1986 and introduced readers to soldier, Dmitri Malama, who meets the Grand Duchess, Tatiana, daughter of Tsar Alexansr.
The two fall in love, but history is about to play its hand.
Or will someone in the Romanov family escape their fate?
The contemporary storyline, takes place in 2016 and centers around Dmitri's great grandaughter, Kitty.
Kitty flees her cheating husband in England and heads to America and Dmitri's cabin.
But I loved this cotton candy for my brain!
I could not get into this story at all. It felt like there was no character development and because of that the story felt completely fake and made the characters unlikable. Not to mention the fact that the characters in this story said and did things that seemed so out of the norm of what any rational person would do or say. I had to force myself to finish this book.
This is only the second book I have read by Gill Paul but what I love about her writing is the way her vivid descriptions bring the story alive, you can’t help but be pulled into the story and feel an emotional attachment to the characters.The Secret Wife is a captivating and often emotional story of a fascinating and brutal period in history.
The Secret Wife is a fascinating and beautifully written novel which makes the reader wonder "what if?"This book has a dual storyline that weaves back and forth between 1914 and 2016 narrated respectively by Russian cavalry officer Dmitri Malama and Kitty Fisher who has fled London and headed for her great grandfather's remote cabin in the wake of relationship issues.
It also details the turbulent political landscape of Russia and the effects it has on everyone.Kitty on the other hand is reeling after what she discovers in London, and makes a break for America to think things through at her great grandfather's cabin in Adirondacks which she has inherited.
Oh dear, this is one of those books that everyone seems to love, and that simply didn't work for me.
Rightly or wrongly, Tatiana seemed all wrong compared to what I've read of her, and she didn't come to life at all in the book.
For example, lots of details about WWI battles 'read' from newspapers that was pretty unnecessary to the story.
These are the kind of things almost every other reviewer seems to have enjoyed but for me they jarred, they read like the author had so many facts at her fingertips she wanted to put them all in.
Childish tosh.
I loved the genealogy aspect of the story and the unfolding of Kitty’s family secrets.Dmitri’s side of the story tells the tale of his love affair with Grand Duchess Tatiana Romanov against the backdrop of the political instability of Russia at that time.
His passion and deep love for Tatiana is beautifully described and portrayed by Gill and you cannot help but adore him and go through his emotions with him.It is clear that a lot of research has gone into The Secret Wife.
A good idea, but poorly executedThe story regarding the Romanov's, somewhat held my interest, but I didn't care about the modern day characters.
When a woman apologizes  to her husband for writing an ugly email, upon learning of his affair, it's just not plausible in my world.
I just don't think they're too many women out there who would apologize for giving their husband a little grief after finding naked pics of another women on his cell phone.
Then among the historical characters there is a women Dimitri uses to console himself while he pines away for another, but no worries she's perfectly ok with that.
The Secret Wife by Gill Paul is a romantic historical fiction novel about the Romanov family. This intriguing novel revolves around Tatiana, the second daughter of the Tsar Nicholas and Dimitri Malamn, a cavalry officer. Even though I personally knew little about the Romanov family or Russian history, I found the plot, setting and characters well researched. There have been many speculations as to their fate and this is another. Highly enjoyable and I look forward to reading mire books by this author.
Дефинитивно на самиот почеток на 2018, ова е мојот роман на. годината!!! Без пардон...
9,5 de 10*Fiquei totalmente rendida a este livro! Com uma escrita de qualidade e uma narrativa muito bem construída, a imaginação da autora complementou as falhas na História conhecida dos Romanov criando um livro que será, seguramente, um dos melhores deste meu ano literário!Comentário completo em:https://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.co...
Just so many feels!The Secret Wife is a book that made me realize two things:1) I really should read more historical fiction, and2) I MUST check Gill Paul's previous books as I TOTALLY loved this one!The Secret Wife is one of these beautifully written, exceptional books you just don't know how to review.
Through the love story of Tatiana (the second of the duchesses) and Dmitri Malama (a Russian soldier) we follow the life of the Romanovs in a very turbulent Russia.
To be honest, I haven't read that many books on one of the most famous Russian families, but this book did feel like a short course on that historical period.
The Secret Wife is a an intriguing piece of romantic historical fiction.
I wasn’t crazy about the frame story involving Kitty and Tom, but didn’t find it too distracting to what I felt was the “good stuff.” (Like eating Oreos I am willing to tolerate the cookie as a handy way getting the creamy center into my mouth.) If you are a fan of historical fiction, find the Romanov family intriguing, and believe that while love may not conquer all, it offers a way to carry on, you will like this book.
Книгава заслужува да пишам нешто, а јас сум без зборови....Да можам, би дала и повеќе од 5 ѕвезди. Фикција/полуфикција/вистина, што сака нека е, ама е перфектна ваква каква што е....Препорака до сите....
This book had me interested right from the start, with characters that were so brilliantly crafted I didn't want to put the book down as I wanted to know what would happen and now that i've finished the book I'm left thinking about it- always a sign of a well written book in my opinion.
There was great controversy over the Romonovs and how they lived lavishly whilst the rest of Russia starved and so Dimitri and Tatiana married privately so that they could confirm their love for each other but without there being more attention upon the family.
Fascinating historical fictionThis was one of those "can't put it down until it's finished" books. The story of the last Tsar of Russia and his family has always been completely fascinating to me - from their early lives of unbelievable wealth, to their brutal slaughter after the revolution. But could any of them have survived? One possible answer to this mystery is imagined by the author in a beautiful, heartbreaking story about Grand Duchess Tatiana and the soldier she falls in love with shortly before the revolution.
Romanovs of Russia and relentlessly unbelievable...just not for me. I did skim through to the end. I can't quite figure out why. I did get some more insight into the turbulence of the times (politically).For me it was one of those oops picks.
Schitterend historische roman: Kijk hier voor de recensie
The Secret Wife is a brilliant historical fiction romance that kept me up and reading way past my bedtime!It is the fascinating story of what could have happened, had one of the Romanov’s children managed to escape their captors and flee Russia.
This novel must have been a joy to research and the author’s diligence to details and astute observations about this turbulent time lends credibility to her story.There is a mystery in the past and present that needs to be solved.
Every time I thought I knew what was going to happen next, the author proved me wrong.I really enjoyed reading this book and highly recommend it to historical fiction buffs.
An engrossing love story and a thoroughly entertaining historical novel.
I loved how Gill put her own slant to the story whilst at the same time never taking away from historical fact, there was a danger the story at one point could have descended into farce just to make it suit readers who love romance and always want full explanations and satisfactory endings but this didn't happen with plain sailing and I felt the author stayed true to the story she wanted to write.
That book really sparked my interest, and I have since watched some TV programmes about them.The Secret Wife is Gill Paul's fictionalised story of what could have happened to Grand Duchess Tatiana and cavalry officer Dmitri Malama if they had lived.
The snippets from history are fascinating and the author's imagining of what could have happened to the lead characters if their lives had gone down a different path is beautifully imagined, and certainly leaves a lot to think about.I have read most of Gill Paul's novels and have to say that for me, The Secret Wife is certainly her best to date.
This a a heartbreaking tale of love, loss, war, discovering a huge family secret, and a lot of history.Kitty finds out she has inherited her great-grandfathers cabin in the Adirondacks.
When she discovers her husband is cheating on her she leaves London and travels to New York to find the cabin.Kitty spends the summer making repairs to the cabin and trying to learn about her great-grandfather.
What she learns about Dmitri (her great-grandfather) is both incredible and shocking.I did not expect to fall in love with this novel.
I found myself rushing through chapters whenever I got a chance to read.
„Sekret Tatiany” to piękna, wzruszająca opowieść, która niesie w pewnym sensie ukojenie dla spragnionego emocji czytelnika.
Dzieje wielkiej miłości, spełnione na papierze, zamknięte w powieści Gill Paul pozwalają snuć domysły jak by wyglądało nowe życie Dymitra i Tatiany, gdyby porzucili Rosję, gdyby udało im się zbiec i spełnić snute podczas wojny marzenia.
Jest w tej historii sporo naiwności, ale ona jest ewidentnie potrzebna przy takich powieściach, bo pozwala zapomnieć o tragediach i niesprawiedliwościach, jakie przynosi prawdziwa historia.
Dzięki Gill Paul można na chwilę zamknąć oczy, przenieść się w czas tamtej skomplikowanej epoki i wierzyć, że jeszcze jest nadzieja.Dla romantycznych dusz na jesienny wieczór jak znalazł!
