https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351559.Murder_Must_Advertise
Lord Peter uses two of his middle names for his alter-ego in advertising, Death Bredon.
Something could be going on that jeopardizes the whole business and Mr. Pym hired Death Bredon as a private investigator with a cover that worked well with the circumstances.In this amazingly crafted story, there were a few words and phrases I had never heard, and some I had not heard in a very long time.
One example of a phrase I hadn’t heard since I was a kid was physical jerks - in reference to physical exercises, not the people who perform them.
I have been hanging out for a 5★ read that wasn't a reread or a cookbook & I had high hopes for this particular title. Sayers is my new favourite Golden Age writer (sorry Agatha!) & she had been a copywriter herself.Unfortunately this long anticipated read wasn't it.The start of this book is full of wonderfully witty quotable quotes about the advertising world; Bredon shuddered."I think this is an awfully immoral job of ours, I do, really. Think how we spoil the digestions of the public.
Sayers is my new favourite Golden Age writer (sorry Agatha!) & she had been a copywriter herself.Unfortunately this long anticipated read wasn't it.The start of this book is full of wonderfully witty quotable quotes about the advertising world;
Think how we spoil the digestions of the public.""Ah, yes- but think how earnestly we strive to put them right again.
(I'm a life-long cricket hater)Background information about the 30's was very good - Sayers makes the times breathe.It's just that the murder mystery itself isn't very good & further in, bits of the story drag.
Sayers doesn't just write good mysteries, she writes good novels.
One might almost mistake Murder Must Advertise for a novel about an ad firm (and brilliantly done at that) that happens to concern a murder, rather than the other way around, and I don't say that at the expense of the mystery itself.One of Sayers's many likeable qualities is that she never comes off as an innocent, even in books where the plot turns on the interpretation of a will and the characters are frequently known to say, "Oh!
Sayers's astonishing wit, the seeming tameness of some of its objects regardless, always betrays a penetrating understanding of human mischief.
This is the best Wimsey book. A marvelously venomous send-up of the advertising world, still sickeningly applicable today, it has lots of biting wit and some compassion as well for those caught up in this silly little world. Wimsey's incarnations here...ad man, himself, evil man-about-town, and outstanding cricketer...are fascinating. One is so intrigued with the book that one doesn't notice that Wimsey can be, and sometimes is, soporifically perfect. Nevertheless, for fans of the literate mystery, this is a delight.ETA: The occasional but all-too-casual bigotry does jar on the nerves.
I don't think I appreciate Dorothy Sayers as much as I should.
Really, this is probably a 4-star book that I've given only 3, because I felt she got away from the murder solving a bit too much.
I should be enjoying her long asides into the advertising world and the game of cricket.
I should be impressed by the seriousness in which she handles drugs and death.
It's all quite masterful and ahead of her time.
I mean to say, her craft and characters are more mature than her contemporaries.
Honestly, Murder Must Advertise is truly a good read.
Lord Peter Wimsey is masquerading as plain Death (pronounced ‘Deeth’) Bredon at Pym’s Publicity; having been called in my Mr Pym after the suspicious death of Mr Victor Dean, who broke his neck after falling down a staircase.Mr Bredon finds himself occupying Mr Dean’s room and, before long, is heavily involved in all aspects of office gossip.
I have to admit that the parts of this novel I enjoyed most are set within Pym’s Publicity, but the story also features a group of Bright Young Things that Mr Dean was attracted by.
Murder Must Advertise, rather like Gaudy Night, isn't a mystery novel, but a novel containing a mystery.
It's reminiscent of Connie Willis and To Say Nothing of the Dog in that regard, meaning this novel feels much more human than the standard mystery.
This is a murder mystery, so of course it's darker.
(I will say that the way Sayers skewers advertising is so precise, so scathing, it never allowed me to forget that I was reading a story written by someone who worked in advertising.)It's also funny, though!
All I really remembered about this book was that it made me laugh; what I didn’t remember was it also has teeth.A peter Wimsey mystery, wherein Peter goes undercover in an ad agency, and then there are a lot of shenanigans, and also bad puns, and a climactic cricket match that made me snigger to myself for ten minutes straight, much to the consternation of my morning train seatmate.(This is, incidentally, a pretty good place to start with Peter Wimsey.
And if that weren’t enough, also a pointed meditation on a particular stripe of British classism.*God damn, when she was good, no one could touch Sayers.*There’s this bit where one character explains to another how there’s a cultural divide in the office between the Oxbridge chaps and the rest of them.
Adopting the persona of Mr. Death Bredon, he becomes a copywriter in the advertising firm Pym's Publicity to investigate the mysterious death of one Victor Dean, and discovers that Dean's death is the tip of an iceberg which affects thousands of lives all over London.Dorothy L.
Sayers worked in an advertising firm for seven years, and engineering Lord Peter into a job in the environment she knew so well was a gold-plated stroke of genius.
By the time she wrote Murder Must Advertise, her copywriting days were three or four years behind her but clearly still burned into her memory and affections.
It's a very uneven read and my personal rating is really between 2 and 3 stars, although some of the best bits are wonderful.The most enjoyable sections are those set within an advertising agency, Pym's Publicity, where Lord Peter Wimsey takes up a job, posing as his lookalike cousin, Death Bredon (his own middle names - apparently Death can be pronounced Deeth.) He has been called in to investigate following the mysterious death of a previous employee who fell down the stairs and cracked his skull.
(view spoiler)[The bright young things storyline sees the mystery mixed up with a fiendish dope ring, which is not very believably portrayed, putting it mildly.
Must admit that I haven't read a lot of the engaging Lord Peter Wimsey mystery series to date. Love the atmosphere of the novel although it wasn't quite politically correct. The mystery component was well executed and I thoroughly enjoyed the insights into the advertising industry. Also featured on the Boxall/Guardian lists.
In addition, one of the entertaining portions to me is the cricket game with another firm.
As an American, I have no knowledge of cricket.
But he was apparently quite the cricketer while at Oxford.
He goes into it with every intention of playing a mediocre game until he gets peeved when someone hits him in the elbow and the cricketer in him comes out.
And his style of play is recognized.
The mystery here revolves around the murder and a dope gang.
I had no memory of the dope gang from my previous readings of this book.
I had read a great deal about the Bright Young Things by the time I read this, so I recognized them, a buried gem in a treasure of a story. I've always liked work stories where you get the sense the writer actually knows about the complications of minutae that become all-consuming in the workplace, and there comes the opening of the cage. This one satisfies on all levels.
So Lord Peter gets out his Super Awesome Detective Disguise Kit and goes to work at Pym's undercover in order to find out what this guy might have known.
His brother-in-law, an officer, is explaining that they'll have to sneak him out the back and Peter interrupts happily, "Disguised as a policeman?
She's in with the cocaine-smuggling crowd, so Lord Peter basically has to seduce her in order to get at the drug kingpins.
Here's the thing: I think Lord Peter acted like a jackass to Dian because that's the kind of guy she'd be most attracted to.
Lord Peter does an undercover twin in this early Pym Advertising Firm's terrible event aftermath.It features myriad numbers of characters and some very funny early advertisement methods.
One of my least favorite subjects to read about is "departmental" politics in the police house or in a company office digs and this has oodles of both.
Other than a lawn party at the Duke of Denver's- I thought this one had slow spots and too many side tracks to maintain the tension as has been done in the other Sayers' Lord Peter Wimsey that I have read.
One of my favorite mysteries. I had read MURDER MUST ADVERTISE several times before I even started my reading log, so I don't know my read count. In recent years I've been listening to it read by the talented Ian Carmichael a couple of times a year, and it was a pleasant experience to return to the print version.My favorite "Contemporary" Mystery Reread of 2017. (It was contemporary when it was written.)

His name, somewhat implausibly, is Death Bredon, and alert readers familiar with other Sayers novels will pretty quickly get the idea that (view spoiler)[he is really ace amateur detective Lord Peter Wimsey working under an alias.
The deceased had been known to run with a wild crowd of young people who are into drugs and bad behavior, and it seems clear that the drugs and the death may be related.The ad agency scenes are realized in naturalistic detail; this reader really felt as if it were an office she was working in.
He takes up employment at Pym's advertising agency at the request of the owner of the firm following the death of a member of staff - Victor Dean.
As well as doing the job he starts ferreting around to try and find out whether Victor Dean's death was accident or murder.The portrait of an advertising agency, from the messenger boys to the directors is excellent.
Masquerading as a masked harlequin and his own dissolute cousin, Wimsey ultimately puts himself in danger to unravel the mystery of Victor Dean's death and the connection of the fast set with Pym's Publicity.There are some fascinating characters in the book from Ginger the messenger boy who wants to be a detective to the slightly pompous but good hearted Mr Pym himself.
I’m not so enamoured of any of the secondary characters in this one, though: Parker barely appears, Bunter and Harriet are entirely absent, and the other characters are all new (and confined to this mystery).
It remains fun, but it’s not one of the ones that get me emotionally engaged.It doesn’t help that in the radioplays, Gabriel Woolf no longer voices Parker; it’s someone else, whose voice doesn’t fit half so well.
I know exactly how the real Parker would say those lines, and this guy is all wrong… It’s much worse than the changing voice actors for Harriet, somehow.The ending is an interesting one, in terms of Peter’s moral responsibilities.
This was my first time reading Dorothy L.
While I generally enjoy mystery thrillers, the genre has always seemed to be a subset of real literature - somewhat of a guilty pleasure.
Murder Must Advertise, however, is a good book period.
It happens to be also be a mystery, but the investigation at many times takes a backseat to the realistically populated world of an advertising firm in the '30s.
I especially liked the section where Lord Wimsey thinks about how advertising preys upon  "the comparatively poor.
In fact, some of these are revealed fairly early compared to most mysteries.
Beautiful language, gloriously ridiculous plots, and the first to bring the emotional life of her characters into the fore of the mystery. (Even though she did insist on apologizing for it.)
Lord Peter Wimsey goes undercover, using his Death Bredon alter ego, to investigate a suspicious death at an advertising agency.
It isn't long until Peter realizes that a drug smuggling gang is using Pym's ad agency and that the death there was somehow related.
Toward the end of the book, Pym's agency plays an annual cricket match against one of its clients.
I haven’t read this in ages and I think I enjoyed the workplace parts more than ever—the camaraderie and infighting and rivalries got so much right, and I liked learning something about how advertising worked at the time (it seemed plausible anyway).
I think the other thing I liked about the office parts was seeing Wimsey as part of a group, working with others, which is so contrary to the way this kind of private detective usually operates—mostly a loner, brooding.
I think it let Sayers develop his character in some interesting ways and maybe prepared for the final books where he has to learn to let Harriet be a real partner.
Talk about leading a double life.“A man of rigid morality--except, of course, as regards his profession, whose essence is to tell plausible lies for money.”Each of her books is set in a place (London here) and a culture (advertising) which allows modern readers insight to England a century ago.
I shirk responsibility.”Sayers may have portrayed attitudes and actions toward and by women in her day accurately--even sympathetically--but one doesn’t wish to be reminded we were all so backward.“And from thence to the place of execution … and may the Lord have mercy upon your soul.”Sayers often commends suicide to avoid public disgrace for guilty party’s innocent family.
What the staff doesn’t know is that Mr Bredon is actually Lord Peter Wimsey and he is working undercover to investigate the death, and a drug-smuggling ring.
I’ve never read any of this series before, and this one is #10.
This particular volume even made it to a Top 100 Books Everyone Should Read list some time back.
If it hadn’t been the monthly read at one of my book group’s I would have abandoned it.
Lord Peter Wimsey is wealthy, witty, smart and creative.
I might try another, but I’ll have to wait a while to let the memory of this dissatisfying read fade.
Lord Peter is described as an eccentric by his peers, but as the readers perceived, it's more of a disregard of society's etiquette and opinions as well as a bit of confidence of his place in the world.
I like these characteristics of him, but I don't know, that disregard and confidence have been morphed into a disproportionate superiority complex sort of in this book, especially toward women (I didn't like how Dian was treated), and it was extremely grating.
I think the lack of Bunter to balance out Lord Peter's more annoying qualities made me grumpy.
The most engaging and best part of Of Human Bondage was the episode in which the hero, previously an entitled young man, is forced to go to work with the lower classes to keep from starving.
Similarly, Lord Peter Whimsy is at his best not when dealing with his peers, but with the working class.
Best of all, Sayers spends a good deal of time examining the *idea* of advertising, and what it means for society—who listens to it, what effects does it have upon their daily lives and mores, how insidious it is.
This is my favorite Whimsy novel to date.
This novel is as much a satire on the advertising industry and office politics as it is a mystery, and none the worse for it. Witty and entertaining, with some genuine laugh-out-loud moments. And Peter Wimsey, of course. (Though, sadly, not as much of Bunter as I would have liked!)
Not for me. No rating.
