https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5941.Running_in_the_Family
To what extent do the most colourful anecdotes about a person define that person's personality?
In my family the most enigmatic character was my maternal grandfather.
Thinking about it, I'd have to say it's an anecdote that so well defines him that I almost suspect it might have been made up.
Ondaatje's memoir about his family is essentially an album of anecdotes.
He looks for the actions that seem to define the secret spring of an individual's identity.
I suspect Woolf here hit on a fundamental truth about the secret springs of identity denied to conventional biographers.
Ondaatje's notion of anecdote is of this conventional nature.
Dear Mr. Ondaatje,You've got to stop writing such powerful, sexy books. You make me want to abandon everything and move to Ceylon. I have a terrible problem with mosquitoes. And, frankly, I become rather crazy in the heat. But, ohhhh, how you seduce. Grandmothers dying in floods, the drinking, the dancing, the sheer cliffs, the friendly snakes that might be your father. I want to hang out in the verdant fields with you and your family. I've never before found mine so ordinary.sigh,CFM
I infinitely preferred this book, by turns laugh out loud funny and heartbreaking, to any of Ondaatje's novels that I've read. The book is definitely fragmentary, and perhaps that keeps it feeling light, even though the prose (and poetry!) is first-rate and the subject matter often quite dark. In any event, as Ondaatje takes us on his journey of re-discovery of family and place in Sri Lanka, he has a deftness and a randomness that his (to me) overly determined novels sometimes lack. A voice you could listen to (on the page) for much longer than this book lasts.
these 203 pages were some of the longest 203 pages i have ever read. the writing is lyrical (albeit sometimes very confusing) and there are some particularly shining vignettes, but other parts, i really had to shoulder through.
His father in particular—an epic binger, gin hole, naked hijacker of trains, and participant in elaborate, picturesque feuds:And there was Lalla too, like a bee attracted to the perfume of any flower, who came up every other week solely to ransack the garden and who departed with a car full of sprigs and branches.
In his last years my father was a founding member of “The Ceylon Cactus and Succulent Society” and this interest began during his time in Kuttapitiya—all because of his devious and defensive nature.
This lyrical memoir of Michael Ondaatje is a must read of those who read and did not like his Booker-award winning novel The English Patient.
It can only be a memoir.And it has be something similar to what Michael Ondaatje's Running in the Family for a number of reasons:1) The setting is Asia - Sri Lanka (also known before as Ceylon).
There is a part in the book that I liked so much that I read it three times:"Two days before he died we were together.
I do not like short stories or books composed of vignettes.
It is not terribly funny.....I didn't particularly like reading about the lifestyle of drinking and partying and small talk and gambling, the lifestyle so predominant to this family and many others of their group.
Why did that go down my throat like ice-cream while this books had me choking off and on?
(page194)So I ended up having a soft spot fpr this man, Michael's father, irregardless of all his faults.
I also wish the book had taught me a bit more about Ceylon!
There were so many great elements in this book--exotic setting, interesting characters, dramatic events, poetic language (although the sections in verse seemed sort of, well, bad)--and yet somehow I could never get excited about it. Maybe something about the lack of...dramatic arc in the present narrative? I don't know. Maybe it was great. Maybe it was my fault. I just couldn't dance to it.
"you can only write it once." but the book again is incomplete.
in the end, all your children move among the scattered acts and memories with no more clues.
not that we have ever thought we would be able to fully understand you.
whatever brought you solace we would have applauded.
whatever controlled the fear we all share we would have embraced.
that could only be dealt with one day at a time--with that song we cannot translate, or the dusty green of the cactus you touch and turn carefully like a wounded child towards the sun, or the cigarettes you light..
Even though I read this almost 20 years ago, I remember it as being one of the best family histories I ever read. Hilarious in parts, and along with Cat's Table which was written much later, provides insights into one of my favorite authors.
Wonderful memoir and family history in Sri Lanka (Ceylon) where the talented author and poet grew up until age 11, when he moved to Toronto in 1962.
The narrative is a lovely blend of evocation of Michael's young life on a tea plantation and a reconstruction of the history and experiences of his grandparents and parents from the 1920's.
There are plenty of colorful and funny family characters he brings to life, the typical tragedies, and outrageously absurd escapades brought on by his father's periodic alcoholic binges.
But remember when he did that really funny thing?
Except when she did that not so amazing thing.
Sri Lanka is beautiful and full of wonderful people.
It is really hard for me to tell because I don't know any of these people and I wasn't allowed to get to know them through your writing.It is apparent that Mr. Ondaatje is an amazing writer (except for commas- He apparently hates them.
He writes beautifully about his topics, using amazing metaphors and descriptive, lyrical prose.
His poems are amazing and beautiful.
Favorite lines: 1. "During certain hours, at certain years in our lives, we see ourselves as remnants from the earlier generations that were destroyed."2. "No story is ever told just once."3. "There is so much to know and we can only guess. Guess around him. To know him from these stray actions I am told about by those who loved him. And yet, he is still one of those books we long to read whose pages remain uncut."
Ondaatje's memoir about growing up in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) is filled with vivid, lush imagery.Too bad his family stories are so uninteresting! Boring tales of drunk fathers, cantankerous grandmothers, and subdued siblings were made bearable by the author's writing skill. Just not bearable enough to recommend this tome to others.
It is disjointed and follows a post modern style.
Sometimes there are poems and stories and sometimes just pictures and conversations but all dealing with Ondaatje's family and his early life in Sri Lanka.
This memoir will shock you and make you laugh but all the while, you cant stop admiring Ondaatje's language, the style and this 'gesture' (he says, 'the book is not a history but a portrait or 'gesture'').
My favourite chapters are 'The Passions of Lalla', 'How I Was Bathed' and the poem 'To Colombo'.
I love the prospect of opening this book anywhere and rereading chapters every now and then.
Part memoir and part atmospheric poetry, each chapter hints at an event or anecdote from Ontdaaje's ancestors' lives in Sri Lanka.
Generations of expats and patriots come and go, shown to the reader in brief glimpses and short chapters of prose or poetry.
The writing is, as always, lyrical, evokative, clever and beautiful, but at the end I found I wanted more.
Sometimes I felt that the cleverness of the prose detracted from the substance of the story, and that in an effort to hint at too much Ontdaaje went into depth with too little.
Sometimes I find myself weary of the eighteen different books I've started reading and left sitting somewhere around my house, and I wonder if I'll ever finish reading any of them. In such times, I'll pick up a book by Michael Ondaatje and read it in two days. He is an angel, and his books have the flash & magnificence & abundance of the heavens.
Though I've written five memoirs and reviewed countless more, I'm not sure there's one that keeps bringing me back and back like Running in the Family. The opening page alone is worth the price of the book.
I wanted to touch them into words. *How I have used them.… They knit the story together, each memory a wild thread in the sarong.*During certain hours, at certain years in our lives, we see ourselves as remnants from the earlier generations that were destroyed. So our job becomes to keep peace with enemy camps, eliminate the chaos at the end of Jacobean tragedies, and with “the mercy of distance” write the histories.
It was very different from the others (Maya Angelou and Geoffrey Wolff) in topic, writing style, and flow.Running in the Family was difficult to read and dive into, at first.
When I approached the memoir in this fashion, it was much easier to follow and discover the links from one family member to the next - and finally to the story of the narrator's mother and father.Another aspect of this memoir that is worth noting: while Wolff and Angelou repeatedly reminded the readers of their cultural background, their race, their history, Ondaatje's identity was mixed.
I can't remember the last time I was so thoroughly bored and disinterested while reading a book.
Thank goodness it was only 200 pages because I always finish a book once started.
I read reviews praising the language and imagery but I found it jumpy and confusing and since it's not told in chronological order I couldn't keep all the family members and friends straight.
Thank goodness for the antics of Lalla his grandmother as she was the only character I found interesting.
I was confused by what image of his father he was attempting to portray and couldn't put my finger on his real feelings towards him.
ok this is the most random and aimless collection of stories about the most frivolous events and unnecessary characters that I have ever encountered.
Canadian poet and novelist Michael Ondaatje returns to Sri Lanka in search of his family’s past. The stories in this short, beautifully written, very original memoir are often surprising with a mythic quality, but the author has warned the reader : “While all these names may give an air of authenticity, I must confess that the book is not a history but a portrait or ‘gesture.’ And if those listed above [in the acknowledgments] disapprove of the fictional air I apologize and can only say that in Sri Lanka a well-told lie is worth a thousand facts.”
A nice, short, coming-home memoir that was also interspersed with lots poetic tangents. The book was nicely written at times and plodding at others, but it succeeded at recapturing a slice of time in South Asia when peoples lives (or at least people with relative wealth) were much more carefree than they are today. I had to remind myself this was nonfiction at times because of how colorful Ondaatje's family is. As someone who grew up with lots of Sri Lankan friends this book also provided a bit of insight into where some of them came from.
Another non-linear narrative here, a memoir that uses "memory" as an organizing structure (not forward action). The author mines memory: not only his own. I enjoyed it. Lots of beautiful sentences. Lots of metaphors. Lots of descriptions I wish I had written. I keep counting the children, keep feeling I am missing one.I am the foreigner. I am the prodigal who hates the foreigner. Sweat runs with its own tangible life down a body as if a giant egg has been broken onto our shoulders.We own the country we grow up in. I am the son you have made hazardous.
An elegant series of portraits from Ondaatje crafted after visits to his childhood home of Ceylon (still Ceylon when he penned this in the early 80's). His colorful, troubled, exuberant family - Dutch, Sinhalese, Tamil- lived vivid llives in the early decades of the 20th century. Ceylon is as much of a character as any aunt, uncle, parent, sibling- seething with damp heat and swaying in lush, green waves of water and foliage. Ondaatje's memories and re-creation of events is loving and bemused, poetic and respectful. I'd like to have read more about these characters...
Just the facts, ma'am? Or...perhaps not.I think what you make of this book depends, in large part, what expectations you have when you start it. It's not a biography - it's part family recollections, part travel memoir. It's not beginning-to-end - it's a collection of stories, which, Ondaatje points out, are inevitably coloured by time, perspective and the desired effects on the teller's audience. It's lyrical and teasing. The prose is lovely, as you'd expect from Ondaatje. It's definitely a difficult book to categorise, but it is an entertaining read.3.5*
Just reread this. I read it a while ago, in college; I remembered the poetry in it, mostly. It's a hodgepodge of memory, emotion, and family history; though obviously a rather troubled family, also one written about with love and vividness. Ondaatje writes beautifully, and though at first it seems almost hagiographic, the darker undercurrents start showing soon enough.
Narrative shifts come often, and pictures and Ondaatje’s poetry about his native land interrupt the text—abruptly shifting the reader back into the reality to the text in front of them.
Names are given faces as well as personalities and corresponding anecdotes—far more than a simple narrative could, especially in light of the relative brevity of the novel.As the various characters travel across the Sri Lankan landscape, they indulge—dancing, drinking, going to races, putting on theatre, and gallivanting across their country with what seems to be somewhat reckless abandon.
The anecdotes about his family that form the shape of the book certainly must have fueled Ondaatje’s childhood and must occupy his memories constantly.
It was my first time reading a post-colonial text.
He goes through a series of relatives, acquintances, family friends as if completing a puzzle.
You often find accounts which are intriguing or sometimes peculiar; their veracity might sometimes seem dubitable but they depict a wonderful series of interactions between people that sometimes appear throughout the book and in occasions vanish as the story flows through.
Sometimes there are some of his poems too which make the book catchier.
I read the book on a plane and by the time an hour-long flight was over, I was halfway through it.
You can read and enjoy the smoothness.
