https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48131.Birds_Beasts_and_Relatives
"Gollys, Mrs Durrells," he said, his face red with wrath.  "Why don'ts yous lets Masters Leslies shoot the son of a bitch?"  In life, Gerald Durrell would light up a room. His books elicit that same, warm feeling.His affection for the natural world lives on in the minds of those of us, who for decades, have enjoyed his magical stories.This is the second part of his Corfuan trilogy, continuing on from where My Family and Other Animals left off.The bohemian Durrells have eschewed middle-class Eng
Seriously, how many writers today can compete with that?This bacchanalian feast continued until his pants were fit to burst, and was washed down with red wine which was as dark as the heart of a dragon.Other characters include Captain Creech, the salty sea dog whose incautious, uncivil bonhomie (even in the politest of company) revolves around tales of Montevidean strumpets and rampant gonorrhea!This trilogy was a standard school read for British kids of my generation.There is absolutely no reason why his books cannot be read by adults.
It takes me awhile to finish Durrell's books.
When I do finish I'm a little sad, because I want him to just keep telling me more and more stories.
The two books give an account of the years the Durrell family spent living on the Greek island of Corfu in the 1930s.
Gerry was the youngest in his family by a far margin, and was only about 10 years old when they moved from England to Greece.
More often than not there were disastrous and/or hilarious results.Meanwhile, Gerry's mother, sister, and brothers entertained a colorful variety of visitors both local and foreign.
These are two books I will read again.
Here, in this book, the naturalist, conservationist and author writes of his youth in Corfu during the thirties.
The author makes insects and spiders and snails and fish, well, exceptionally interesting!
Did you know that a snail is BOTH male and female and mating is quite magical?
Interesting and funny are the words I would use to describe this book.
The bizarre antics of this family are amusing, and the dialogs between siblings are real……not sweet talk for a book, but the real thing.
It is interesting to look at the family that produced these two authors.
Makes me want to move to Corfu in those simpler times.
I lay and dozed for a time in the warm shallows and then, feeling heavy with sleep, I made my way back into the olive groves.
Everyone lay about disjointedly, sleeping round the ruins of our meal.
I curled up like a dormouse in the protective roots of a great olive and drifted off to sleep myself."
When the storm had passed, the sky had been washed to the clear blue of a hedge-sparrow’s egg and the damp earth sent out wonderfully rich, almost gastronomic smells as of fruit-cake or plum pudding; and the olive trunks steamed as the rain was dried off them by the sun, each trunk looking as though it were on fire.
Once they reached the sea they spread like yellow veins through the blue water, and the surface was dotted with squill bulbs, logs and twisted branches, dead beetles and butterflies, clumps of brown grass and splintered canes.
This memoir is totally addicting and I loved being back with the eccentric Durrell family. No matter how ridiculous things managed to get for them and the real characters that they meet you can't help but smile. Overall, I don't think I fell in love with book two to the same degree as I did for the first in the trilogy, but it was still wonderful. I need to try book three, The Garden of the Gods soon.
Where Durrell excels, and what I remember him for, is in how he creates an entire book consisting of fragments of short stories.
It really reads as an entire story chronicling his life, though many details are no doubt highly exaggerated.
If you are a fan of humour, autobiographies, short stories and full novels then this is the book for you.
The opening story, which follows a kind of foreword depicting Durrell's decision to write a sequel, is brilliantly humorous and serves to draw you into the rest of the novel.
This book contains, for my money, quite possibly the funniest scene in the English language.
Durrell used the proceeds from his writing to found and nurture the Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust, the first zoo in the world founded specifically for the breeding and conservation of endangered species.
Should you ever be in the neighborhood of the English Channel, it is well worth a visit.
The Trust hosts international trainng programs for the conservation and care of endangered species.
It is a revelation of what a zoo can be and, so often, isn't.I was probably around ten or twelve when I first read this book.
Gerry is less specific with his time frame here.
Here we find out how Gerry met Theo and all the animals they collect.
I did love the "episode" with the bear and the Durrells reaction.
It was priceless!Larry's friends pop in and out for visits, including Sven, a large accordion-playing Swede who stays briefly and returns to his lover in Athens!
(hide spoiler)] Also briefly appearing are Larry's friends Max and Donald.
This is the funniest "episode" in the book.
Here Gerry's mother is called Louise where she is really Louisa and the maid here is Lucretia and not Lugaretzia, the way she is in the first book.
Secondo libro della trilogia di Corfù. Altre divertentissime avventure di Gerald "Gerry" Durrell durante il suo soggiorno nell'isola greca. Durrell è sempre Durrell, scrittura semplice, ironico nel modo di descrivere la sua famiglia e tutti i personaggi che ci girano intorno. Per me va sempre bene come lettura quando si vuole qualcosa di divertente, quando non si ha moltissimo tempo per concentrarsi e sopratutto si vuole un libro da portare in viaggio.
Continuing the story of Gerry Durrells life on the island of Corfu` As with the first memoir Gerald Durrell demonstrates how his fascination - verging on obsession with all creatures began, and how it really is no surprise that he became the man that he did.
I must say I did frequently find myself laughing out loud at some of the antics of Gerry, his pets and various members of his highly entertaining family.
These memoirs do make a childhood in the days before WW2 on the island of Corfu appear totally idyllic.
This second book of Gerald Durrell's Corfu trilogy isn't quite as good as the first one ("My Family and Other Animals"). However, if you like his style of writing this is worth reading. It has plenty of natural history, funny anecdotes and quirky personalities, making it a pleasant and quick read.
This is the second book of the "Corfu trilogy" which I am loving even more.Its sequel is The Garden of the Gods.
Como el anterior, divertido y lleno de anécdotas, algunas tan increíbles que te sacan una sonrisa y hasta una carcajada. La familia es la risa, y Larry sigue siendo un snob adorable.
I love Durrell. Can I please move to Corfu?
Another enjoyable yarn from Durrell.
I don't think it is quite as good as the first in the trilogy, apart from two chapters 7 and 8, which are very funny.
It's slightly odd as a biographical trilogy as they are not in sequence.
In fact, they all cover the same time, but cover different stories.
Whereas the first book felt like a book, this does feel at times like a series of unrelated anecdotes, and I think if you have read this without reading the first it might feel a bit disjointed.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed it, more easy, pleasant holiday type reading.
All three books cover the five years that the Durrell family spent on Corfu, an idyll sadly interrupted by World War II.
(His two brothers and sister didn't care much for his depictions of them to say the least!) Durrell's descriptions of Corfu, everything from animal and insect life (he was a well-known naturalist and conservationist of endangered species) to descriptions of the island and their friends and neighbors make it easy to see why the Durrell family loved this enchanted island and probably would never have left had not the war started.
Чудовий легкий текст про життя Дарелла і його сім’ї на Корфу. З живим гумором, з розкішними описами природи і живого життя, з неповторним стилем автора. Рекомендую!
His sheer joy and love of life and his hugely eccentric family living in pre-war Corfu with seemingly no cares in the world comes through in waves of deliciously written prose.
I have been to Corfu myself a few years ago and it is a very green and special place, full of olive trees, beautiful beaches and coves oozing with wildlife and I would love to go back even more now, such is the appeal of Durrell's memories.
So much so, that when an old version of Fabre's classic - the very same version Durrell describes as 'the squat, green book' - came up for sale in our school library, I immediately bought it.
Fabre and Durrell share three characteristics; a profound love of nature, exceptional powers of observation, and a gift of writing with charm and wit.
'Birds, Beasts and Relatives' is the second of Durrell's 'semi-autobiographical' books on his childhood in Corfu.
But that doesn't detract in any way from the beauty and joy of this simply lovely book.
This is the second in a trilogy of books about his childhood on Corfu that Gerald Durrell wrote in part to subsidize his collecting habit.
He founded the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust and the Jersey Zoo.I was first introduced to him by my Seattle grandparents, Wayne and Lorene, who I remember sitting up in their big king-sized bed with me, all of us reading Gerald Durrell books and laughing and stopping to read bits aloud to each other.
These books will make you laugh out loud and will teach all kinds of things you didn't know about all kinds of animals.
This is the second book in Gerald Durrell's Corfu trilogy. It probably ought to have been combined with the first into one book. It covers the same time period of this hilarious family's life but is not actually "what comes next". It's just more of same. And it is wonderful. I had a grin on my face while reading it and broke into hysterical cackling giggle fits at times. Great fun. I can't wait to read the last one.
A thoroughly delightful romp through an island so idyllic sounding it rivals even the Swiss Family Robinsons' famously accommodating island. As ever, the descriptions and tales of the author's family had me in stitches, and even the long-winded descriptions of things generally only interesting to a naturalist held my attention this time around. It's one of those that leaves you feeling all nice and clean and thoroughly satisfied by the ending.
But Theodore is absolutely adorable with his vast array of scientific knowledge, his understated sense of humor, and his timid cadence of speech.Some of the more interesting "birds and beasts" that Gerald encounters in this book are ...*dung beetles*the creepy scutigeridae which looks like a cross between a spider cricket and a centipede*hermaphroditic snails with love darts*eels that travel from rivers all over the world to the warm water Sargasso Sea in the middle of the Atlantic, having babies that return to their parents homes alone without having ever been there*water spiders that live underwater in a sort of homemade diving bell, adding on an extra room as necessary for eggs I'm going to have to blame this book for making me start reading The Origin of Species earlier than I'd already planned to this year (which led to my reading of Superdove: How the Pigeon Took Manhattan ...
With Gerald Durrell, I think it's the opposite--I can remember My Family and Other Animals so well, and I'm sure I sold it short at the time.
That book has a durable glow.This one is also glowing: more funny stories about the Durrell family (their time on Corfu retold, with fewer logistics and more anecdotes), the animals Gerry brings home, and the people they meet.
And a third eye for real life.
BTW, I did not watch much of The Durrells in Corfu, the recent BBC/PBS series, but I watched enough to feel that they got the tone of the books exactly wrong.
His writing has a way of capturing the people, animals and situations that he encounters perfectly; reading this book was almost as good as being in Corfu with Durrell and his madcap family.
As the people that Gerals Durrell knows best, they all have well-developed and entertaining personae within the book and are funny and embarrassing in the way that only family can be.
Seeing them again was a bit like revisiting old friends and I thoroughly enjoyed laughing with them at their own follies.As always with Gerald Durrell's writing, the book was a careful balance of human drama and encounters with local wildlife, containing just enough detail to be interesting without being too scientific.
I think I was around 10 years old when I first read Durrell and his adventures in the idyllic island of Corfu.
As I read that short essay in one of my English text books (yeah, that was some fancy syllabus we had then, we read a bunch of English writers at a very young age), I remember wanting to have more of Durrell, Roger and Corfu.
I remember I loved the book, the tone, the absense of plot, the carefree nature of the narration, the chuckles it gave and everything else.
I was also intrigued that books by his brother were highly regarded by my erudite father.
I loved the individual family members and although widely known that the book was not strict with the time lines, it made no difference.
In fact, I was rather pleased with that as I often wonder how everyone seems to remember conversations word for word, date for date, from so long ago.
I seem to be able to mix up relations, times, dates, even reasons for the various get togethers - hence no autobiography then!
Larry, Leslie and poor old Margo and the wonderful scatty widowed mother.
A sweet little book that is a sequel to My Family and Other Animals. The books are based on the author's life as a young boy on the island of Corfu from 1933 to 1939 just before World War II. Beautifully written, as the reader you are transported to the island to live among his many creatures and humorous family adventures.
Esta segunda parte se lee como una continuación natural de la primera, sin notarse siquiera signos de cansancio: es más, los personajes terminan de hacerse redondos y las anécdotas resultan más divertidas, si bien hay menos animales de cuatro (o seis u ocho) patas y más de solo dos patas. Es una lástima que el último relato sea el más insustancial del libro, ya que hace que se termine la lectura de forma un tanto descafeinada, pero con ganas de continuar con la tercera y última parte.
