https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78887.Tracks
A tribe of chicken-scratch that can be scattered by a wind, diminished to ashes by one struck match. You wouldn't make a Disney movie out of genocide, would you? Then why does Pocahontas exist? I was only recently led to this argument by the Internet, and it is yet another of many that I wished I had come across much, much, much earlier.This book has the whole 'magical realism' thing going on, like so many other pieces of work not written by white people, who have their fantasy, their postmoder
I was only recently led to this argument by the Internet, and it is yet another of many that I wished I had come across much, much, much earlier.This book has the whole 'magical realism' thing going on, like so many other pieces of work not written by white people, who have their fantasy, their postmodernism, their everything but.
A piece of paper declares, if you stray here and attempt to live, we have the right to kill you.
A piece of paper insinuates, if your biology proves incompatible with our lifestyles, we are not required to heal you.
The relationship of Argus to Matchimanito is close to what it’s like around Palomar Mountain, but that's another story.) Tracks tells the history of Benign Neglect through the voices of two great but unreliable narrators: Pauline and Nanapush.
It’s through the polyphony of this tribal voice, including the Métis, that Erdrich has made a great contribution to literature.
In a meta-fictional passage from Tracks, Erdrich puts her apotheosis in the voice or Pauline, who says of a story told over and over by different storytellers, "It comes up different every time, and has no ending, no beginning" (31).
Issues of the here and now for the Ojibway are heavily influenced by government policy, and Nanapush believes that those policies are intent on making his tribe invisible by assimilation into white culture.Despite its sombre tone, it seems to me that the novel ended in hope.
The metaphor of the blizzard of legal forms that now govern the bureaucratised lives of the Ojibway contrasts beautifully with that of the gently falling snow that opens this novel and threatens to herald the vanishing of the tribe.
This is only the 2nd book I've read by Louise Erdrich --(many thanks to Michael --a member here on Goodreads),-- as he recommended it to me.
My first thought when I finished reading this novel -- "All cultures and time periods have their problems.
Plus, we've many Jewish writers writing about our history, our culture, our foods, our personals families -etc.
But I don't know of 'many' authors writing great stories like Louise Erdrich.
"TRACKS" is different than in "Round House", but both books are rich in storytelling and "Native American" -clan power-!Reading "TRACKS" I was able to FEEL --and IMAGINE being part of the story itself.
I have no idea why, of course, because I have never read any Faulkner (this will change soon), but Faulkner's most highly regarded work - The Sound and The Fury - is well-known to be difficult.
Morrison and Lessing, with their keen attention to the sources of destruction - the evil of humanity, the jealousy of the soul, the corruptibility of our ideals, not the avarice of the gods - felt real.That isn't quite what I got with this book.It isn't that Erdrich isn't wise.
Did I mention that the moment I finished reading this book I wanted to start it over again?
Two people at opposing poles of a small, fragmentary society narrate this story, yet their accounts agree where they intersect.I've met these women when they were older already.
Time will spiral, we will float like flowers on a pond.
The story takes root in the hearer like a seed.I love the accounts of Fleur, whose power is renowned and feared, suffering as woman and human, desiring and being tender, angry and kind, having limits and needs, acting through magic and reason, body and thought.
Fleur goes where I don't want to follow, but where is there for us?
A great read - moving, evocative, really takes you into the hearts and minds of the Native American loss of culture, land, traditions and how it affected individuals on a personal, as well as community, level.
Overlaid here, though, is Erdrich's unique and thrilling use of magical realism; her creation of kick-ass powerful female characters; her exploration of the aforesaid "madness" in a variety of forms, but esp.
how it is interlinked with Christianity, and the clash of Christianity with native spirituality (here, in the form of Father Damien, Nanapush, and Pauline Puyat, whom we meet - among other characters first developed here - in what I'd say is one of her best (and definitely one of my faves): The Last Report of the Miracle at Little No Horse.
Or, you can opt for a fictionalized account of this theft - of land, lifeblood and soul - in Louise Erdrich's troubling novel, Tracks.
They traveled, lame and bent, with chests darkened from the blood they coughed out of their lungs, filing forward and gathering, taking a different road.
"I've brought You so many souls!"And He said to me, gently:"Fetch more."And the sorrow never ends.
A tribe of chicken-scratch that can be scattered by a wind, diminished to ashes by one struck match.The magic woven through Tracks is not enough to give this story a happy ending.
I should perhaps have read this before "The Last Report on the Miracles at Little No Horse" and "Four Souls", but no matter.
The story is told alternately from the viewpoints of Nanapush and Pauline Puyat (later to become Leopolda) and focuses on the years before Fleur Pillager left for the city to get back what was rightfully hers.
Consumption has the people dropping like flies, food is scarce and their land is being stolen from them incrementally by those who wished to profit from it.
These people remain true to themselves against the odds and do more than merely survive.Louise Erdrich never disappoints me.
I loved Louise Erdrich's "The Round House" which I read years ago, so I was interested in reading her earlier work that got her known.
The writing is so beautiful, Erdrich's writing is always so consistently mindblowing, the setting and characters really come to life.
the prose felt a bit too beautiful?
at times that it got rather obscure for me and I couldn't actually get what was going on sometimes.
It also doesn't help that there was some magic stuff going on that confused me.
But still it was beautiful and the characters will stay with me for a long time.
I didn't like the novel at all.First of all, I already didn't like how the book started, with five pages of 'High Praise for Tracks'.
Erdrich can't compete with the intelligent style, sharp analysis, complex characterization, and emotional power of Morrison's writing.One of the things I found were lacking are complex, round characters.
Where Morrison closely mirrors the language of black people to create a feeling of realism, immersion and authenticity, Erdrich doesn't use colloquial language, which I think would go well in Tracks.
this book is terrible.
this book has got to be around 90% exposition, and most of that is overly verbose and purple.
everything in this book is overly sexualized, including at least one scene (i didnt finish, so there could be more) of a 12 year old having sex with an adult.
how louise erdrich became a bestseller is beyond me, based on this book, unless she's only popular with women who drink wine while they watch women be battered on the lifetime channel, and enjoy ham-fisted sexual innuendo, smut, and needlessly bad writing...
The story of Fleur Pillager, one of Erdrich's most memorable characters, plays out here in an alternating chapters with stories told by Nanapush ( a trickster character) and Pauline--the crow.Although third in the series, this book is before the proceeding two timewise.Its hard to put the lyricism into words, the beautiful pathos that is the Northern Minnesota Indian reservation. The senseless death, the pain and the betrayal. The hurt that cannot be healed of a culture losing a generation of children. All this is captured here in Erdrich's work.Erdrich's powerful writing brings the reservation life to its full potential.
This was the first Erdrich book I read. It was also the first novel by a Native American woman I'd read. It was an assignment in my women's studies course and I was very young and very sure of myself and very knowledgeable about every little thing in the world.For some reason that I don't remember now, this book knocked me down my hill and left me muddied and scratched at the bottom.I've been a fan of Erdrich ever since.
The depiction of one character’s Catholic spiritual experiences was far from positive, bordering on the demonic, which I found off-putting.
Throughout the book, I felt like a voyeur listening to a family story that was not meant for my ears, for which I did not have sufficient context and to which I was not really welcome.
This is the story of an extended Chippewa family in the second decade of the 20th century told through two voices, an elder who distained and resisted the encroachment of white culture and a young woman who sought a strange form of salvation from personal daemons in a self-destructive expression of Catholic asceticism.
Fleur is an attractive young woman who loses her family to illness but is strong in the old ways, so much so that she is regarded by others as having magical powers.
When I read Nanapush's accounts I didn't have any problems with the magic, but Pauline's account of magic, which in the second part of the book combines native American magic with visions of Jesus sitting on the stove, seemed more like the delusions of a tortured mind.Another aspect of the narrative structure is that the central figure of Fleur is present but removed, always filtered through others' eyes.
“We started dying before the snow, and like the snow, we continued to fall.” So begins Louise Erdrich’s Tracks, a novel which charts the lives of a native people over ten years as the boundaries of personal and physical territory slowly erode.
As in their novels, Erdrich’s world is one in which the living can summon the dead, where lovers build up and break down one another in the matter of a conversation, and where magic is threaded tightly into the fabric of life.Many of these chapters originally appeared as stories in print magazines before being expanded.
Through this we get to see not only the effects of the loss of land (and resulting loss of community) but also the havoc wreaked in Fleur's life, mostly set in motion by Pauline.I detested Pauline by the end, as mad or not she was incredibly vindictive, but loved the voice of Nanapush and couldn't help but feel his loss as those he loved around him fell away and the old ways slipped.
"We started dying with the first snow, and like the snow, we continued to fall..." So begins Tracks by Louise Erdrich, my favorite book by the Minnesota-born, Anishinabe / Lakota Sioux author.
Through the conflicting narratives of Nanapush and Pauline, we become woven into the story of Fleur Pillager, an orphaned Anishinabe woman whose life is as hard as the times she is born into, on her ancestral land at Matchimanitou.
In this fable of American Indian life at the turn of the last century, what is real and what is mythical become blended until they are inseparable.
This was my first book by Louise Erdrich and I loved it. It was magic and painful and desperate but still slow and beautiful. The different responses of two of the main characters to hard lives, where both were strong and went kind of mad, but in ways that made it very clear how these differences in their reactions and their ways with other people, whether they inspired fear or disdain, had consequences.
The prose! 'They cracked in my ears like a fist through ice.' The people! Fleur! Pauline!
This book reminded me of The Woman Warrior in its use of magical realism to interpret lives that are on the borders of two cultures. I was completely drawn in.
Tracks is the story of a Chippewa tribe trying to fend off the depredation from nature and neighbor, clinging to the ways of the land as the town folk and lumber developers circle round waiting their time to buy the land and relocate the occupants.From the book jacket: Set in North Dakota at a time [in the early 20th century] when Indian tribes were struggling to keep what little remained of their lands.
Told in the alternating voices of a wise, astute leader of the tribe, and a young, increasingly embittered mixed-blood woman, the novel chronicles the drama of daily lives overshadowed by the clash of cultures and mythologies.
Tracks is a part of Louise Erdrich’s triptych, her three books comprised of the stories of several generations of Indians tribes who were drove out of their lands in North Dakota.
In this book, Erdrich chose to tell the stories of how these people lost their homes through two unreliable narrators: Nanapush, a tribal leader and Pauline, a woman of mixed heritage.
Louise Erdrich’s writing is reflective and deeply profound, but never over sentimental—it touches the soul of everyone who reads her work, it transforms and connects those with a shared thread of history.
She hides behind ideologies of piety and martyrdom but Pauline is, in fact, the most wicked character in the entire novel.
If nothing else Erdrich has certainly created a cast we care about.That being said I can't help but wonder about the point of the novel.
yet at the close of the novel we have Nanapush talking to Lulu and lingering on the ideas of marriage.
I was thoroughly engaged throughout the text, yes, but I wonder about Erdrich when she ends such a potentially powerful novel on the shoulders of a shallow little girl.
I read Tracks after Four Souls not knowing that the latter is a sequel to Tracks.
Would recommend reading Tracks before Four Souls.
It also tells the reader why Fleur Pillager has to go to Minneapolis early in the pages of Four Souls.The (now five) Erdrich books I've read that take place in North Dakota are synergistic with each other.
The more others one has read, the better seems the next one to be finished.
Fortunately I have found A Reader's Guide to the Novels of Louise Erdrich revised edition 2006.
I can enjoy and admire the books without it but it does enhance them.
This is the third book I’ve read by Louise Erdrich and I think it might be my favorite so far.
The only problems I had it with it were my own: I tend to read at a pretty fast clip, and there are parts of this book that definitely want to be savored and read more slowly than I’m used to.
This book, like any good novel should, gave me a lot to think about and is worthy of a rereading.
And like usual when I finish one of those types of books, I wish I had someone to talk to about it!
Love her writing and love her books. Apparently I have read them out of order and now have to go back and read Love Medicine. Which is more than fine with me. Nanapush has become a particular favorite of mine, and I love his sarcastic sense of humor. Another brilliant read.
We started dying before the snow, and like the snow, we continued to fall. Tracks is exactly my favourite kind of book: a fresh viewpoint on history that blends fact with poetic language, imprinting both my mind and heart with an author's voice and vision. In this case, the time is early 20th century, the place is the Anishinabe Reservation in North Dakota, and author Louise Erdrich uses a blend of magical realism, Catholic mysticism, and Native mythology to reinterpret the accepted narrative o
In this case, the time is early 20th century, the place is the Anishinabe Reservation in North Dakota, and author Louise Erdrich uses a blend of magical realism, Catholic mysticism, and Native mythology to reinterpret the accepted narrative of western expansionism.As Tracks opens, the year is 1912, and after surviving the genocide that forced the Anishinabe onto a reservation that represented a fraction of their former traditional lands, those who also survived the "pox and fever" were now succumbing to consumption in unbelievable numbers.
(And "post-apocalyptic" isn't hyperbole: if an alien invading force did to all of humanity what white settlers did to the Anishinabe tribe, the term "post-apocalyptic" would probably be considered a mild term.)That is, broadly, the plot but it's the writing that had me hooked throughout this book.
This book is about a Native American girl named Fleur Pillager that lived in North Dakota and the hardships she lived through.
The author used first person point of view to tell the story and was told through two different people, Nanapush and Pauline.
When Nanapush and Pauline were telling the story to a person named Lulu, they gave many examples of hardship Fleur went through, for example, drowning, getting raped and other tragic events.
Fleur also had nice things that happened to her, one being getting married and having a baby named Lulu.
