https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25574782-pretty-girls
An idea is a weird thing--usually, it's like a grain of sand that your brain worries into a pearl.
Maybe it was somewhere in the back of my brain all along, but I actually woke up from a dream and had the idea firmly in my head (okay, that doesn't tell you where it comes from, but that's as close as I can get.
Oh, and can I add that I was taking Tramadol for a slipped disc, so maybe that had something to do with it?)Anyway, I loved the idea so much that I scrapped the book I had planned for this year (2015*) and started working on the storyline for what became PRETTY GIRLS.
In the following years the family coped in very different ways.
Sisters Claire and Lydia grieved in very different ways and were estranged having not spoken in many years.
I have found that over the last year I've read quite a few stories about missing girls/children etc.
Although this book is about WAY more than a missing girl.
However, I was quickly drawn into the lives of these women and other characters, trying to figure out how the many separate story lines connected.After I was well into the book I started to realize that the gruesomeness might be too much for me.
My reaction to learning a new book was out by one of my favorite authors.A new Karin Slaughter!!!!!!!!My reaction after reading this book. I love this author. I fangirl so hard over her Grant County/Will Trent books so much that if I go anywhere that has them I must be restrained from recommending that people read them. Yes, Library ladies I will try and behave.But this one. Not.It didn't even feel like it was written by the same author that I love.It starts off with Claire Scott. She is a typic
My reaction to learning a new book was out by one of my favorite authors.A new Karin Slaughter!!!!!!!!My reaction after reading this book.
Claire is a bit freaked out that Paul is up to this because he usually doesn't get frisky unless it's in the actual bedroom, so she wants some spark and follows him to the alley.
(This is not a spoiler because it happens very early and won't ruin any of the book)Once she returns home Claire gets to looking on Paul's computer for some files that his business partner wants and she finds way more than she bargained for.
I've seen many people torn on this book and I understand why; it is EXTREMELY graphic and disturbing.
I have felt lately that nothing really "shocks" me in a book anymore, almost like I've read too many graphic stories.
I felt this book was extremely well written, the story kept my attention constantly-this is the definition of a suspenseful thriller.
While the graphic violence was extremely disturbing, I felt it did not distract me from the story (personally) but can understand why it would have for anyone.
This book was so damn freaking spectacular that I don't even know where to start.
For any book to triumph over those is a win for me :) although they are still right behind this book.I've never read a book like this.
I literally cannot stop thinking about all of the people and events in this book.
The plot is terrifying yet makes you want to read on because you have to know what happens.
Literally every chapter gives you a new twist.
I could see it all.Karin Slaughter knows how to write a terrifying mystery.
It would have record breaking ticket sales!Go read this.
I was not a huge fan of the story in the beginning but once it picked up, I could not put it down.CW: murder, violence, gore, torture, rape, assaultThis novel is straight up disturbing and horrifying.
As someone who spends a decent amount of time listening to readings of “dark web stories” and other horror stories on YouTube and scrolling through reddit threads like /letsnotmeet and /nosleep, this book fed into my fascination with wickedness in humanity.
This novel quickly transforms from mundane to thrilling and chilling and I’m so pleased I continue through the end.Pretty Girls was a truly fantastic read.
The world stops for you when you’re pretty. That’s why women spend billions on crap for their faces. Their whole life, they’re the center of attention. People want to be around them just because they’re attractive. Their jokes are funnier. Their lives are better. Well, there might be some downsides. Pretty Girls is a white-knuckle thriller that will keep you turning the pages long after you should really have gone to sleep. Do not read this while on a train. You will miss your stop. The story
She was born in a small Georgia town and now lives in Atlanta, where Pretty Girls is set.
Claire makes us wonder how she could have buried her head in the sand for so long, ignoring what look like warning signs to us.
The title, Pretty Girls suggests that those on the 10 side of life are more at risk than those closer to the 1 end of things.
Like, oh, the title is Pretty Girls.
Pretty Girls is an outstanding thriller, a very engaging, entertaining, and disturbing read, and that is a beautiful thing.
When she stumbles upon some computer files of her husband's, she begins to question the very foundation of her marriage and what she really knew about the man she married.From beginning to end, this book was full of twist and turns.
As Claire partnered up with her estranged sister, Lydia, to try and sort through the clues her husband inadvertently left behind, the truth seems to become less and less clear.
Claire begins to suspect that there is involvement at the highest levels, protecting those responsible for these horrible crimes.If you like psychological suspense/thrillers, then this is a great story.
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED :::: HOLY HELL. So, I just spent the last 2 days reading this awesome book. It went waaaaaay the freaking hell outside of my "usual" reading preferences. The genre is more of a  crime thriller  (no romance) which I almost never read but this particular blurb really grabbed me. So I opened the book. By the end of the prologue, I had CHILLS running through me and tears in my eyes.... So, I had to read it!!! And honestly I loved it!!But you guys, it is NOT for the faint
And every new thing you discover is this whole other level of creepy.Please note that there is graphic violence in this book (not a lot in terms of content, but what there is will make anyone shudder and cringe.
I need my swoon (even my dark reads have swoon!!!) and this is freaking me the fuck out!!!!!
This book is like one holy shit moment after another.
It almost feels like this book will never end.
It doesn't matter if you end up loving or hating the story, it doesn't change the fact that the writing itself is top notch.
Add that on top of the fact that I absolutely couldn't put this book down, and we've got a real winner on our hands.Pretty Girls is the story of two sisters, one whom has just found herself widowed and the other a single mother of a teenaged daughter.
Little do they know that uncovering their past will uncover way more than they ever could have expected - including some new clues regarding the 20 years ago disappearance of their oldest sister.This book is full of twists and unexpected moments right from the beginning.
Nothing like finishing one of the goriest books I've ever read on what some say is the holiest days of the year. Happy Easter!!!!
It was an absolutely intense read with shocking twists that had me totally engrossed in every single page I was reading!
I am looking forward to reading more of her books in the future!PRETTY GIRLS is a story told in three different points of view; Claire, Lydia and their fathers journal/letter to Julia the sister who went missing over 20 years ago.
The author did an excellent job with the plot and character development which had me totally invested in what I was reading as the suspense and tension developed.It was an intense, quick and disturbing fast-paced thriller with a very satisfying ending.
So incredibly good!The shattering of a family as told from the perspective of the remaining members.
Julia's 2 sisters Claire and Lydia, grow up in the shadow of her disappearance and take different paths in their lives.
24 years later her family remains in shambles.
A recent, tragic event brings Julia and Lydia back together.
Can they finally discover what happened to their sister?
Felt like a slow ride up a roller-coaster, where you know the story is building and once you reach the top it's all going to break free and explode at breakneck speed.
What a great ride!
This book is full of violence and rape so it's not for everyone!Unpopular opinion but I didn't like this book. I did listen to it as an audiobook which might not have been the best idea.
"When you first disappeared, your mother warned me that finding out exactly what happened to you would be worse than never knowing." Oh. How.
It is also a story about a sick and sadistic psychopath who works his evil in despicable ways that are graphically described within these pages which should serve as a warning to those opposed to reading such violence.The story pulled me in right from the start, but was a bit confusing with regard to character connection for a bit until "something" happens in the alley that drew me back in, sorted out the players and kept my interest till the gratifying end.Haven't read a Karin Slaughter novel in a very long time, but this stalker murder-mystery is a hell of a thriller with one hell of a shocker.....or two.
I adored her book Cop Town and was excited to read this new stand alone thriller.With a missing girl in the news, Claire Scott can’t help but be reminded of her sister, who disappeared twenty years ago in a mystery that was never solved.But when Claire begins to learn the truth about her sister, nothing will ever be the same.I found this book to have an interesting plot if somewhat up and down in pace.
I talk back!https://www.twitter.com/promotethatbook I received a review copy if this book thanks to the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
You know you're getting long in the tooth when the book you're reading has a distant past set in 1990.
The past has many treasured memories that I hold dear.
But in many ways life was harder than now in societal terms.Which leads us to this book.
Pretty Girls is a story written by the talented Karin Slaughter, and the recurring feelings she conveys to us are full of pathos.
But she also does a professional job of thinking of convoluted and complex ways to make her story seem plausible.
Check.There are revisits to the past.
“Dyadic completion,” Paul would’ve told Claire. “The human brain tends to assume that, if there’s a victim, there has to be a villain.” ― Karin Slaughter, Pretty Girls🌟4.75/5🌟What an incredible book. Dark and suspenseful, it hooked from the very beginning. Karin Slaughter is a master storyteller. This book was raw and gritty and made me cry several times while reading, but I'm so glad that it didn't disappoint, it's definitely one of the best thrillers I have ever read.
is karin slaughter ok??
I've not read anything before by Karin Slaughter.
The subject matter is heavy, heavy, dark, dark.Ms. Slaughter can give you precise, intricate details of a crime like no other.
She makes you feel like you are watching your foot placement as you tread through the crime scene with bated breath.
Karin Slaughter writes with such emotion that peels away the deep and the hidden secrets that a family has carried for years and years.
It is the fracturing within a family that chistles away at all that we hold precious and untouchable.
Before the story begins, there is an inscription by Carl Jung..."A Particularly Beautiful Woman Is A Source Of Terror""Missing teenage girl.
White.
Middle class.
Very Pretty.
No one ever seemed quite as outraged when an ugly woman went missing"."Tragic, she was so beautiful".
"You were nineteen years old.
Legally, you did not belong to us anymore".
You told your friends that you weren't feeling well and that you were going to walk home and that was the last time anyone ever reported seeing you".Men can be "voracious gluttons who devour every part of a woman, then clean their teeth with the bones".Attractive Pretty Women...
Construction: I read Chapter i and thought it was a prologue.
I had to stop to look at the construction of this book.
Father Sam who never gives up hope, mother Helen who shuts down, Lydia who derails, and Claire who becomes invisible.
Plot: Julia is never found.
This is pure torture for them, and they are in a living Hell.
There is information that Slaughter gives, but is it trustworthy?
They live among us.
Slaughter pulls the veil aside, and her villains and their acts are extremely sickening.In my opinion, this is the best book Karin Slaughter has ever written.
Actual Rating: 4.5/5CW: This book is incredibly violent and dark. If you don't like gore, I do not recommend this for you. There is also several mentions of rape and violence towards women. This book was absolutely addicting! I am often disappointed by thrillers, but this one was so good. I loved every twist and turn. This book was raw and gritty and actually scared me. There were even times it brought me to tears. I would say this is one of the best thrillers I've ever read and I definitely will be reading more books from Karin Slaughter.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I straight up chucked this book to the side waaaaaaay back in August for daring to mention the two words in the English language I hate the most . . . PUMPKIN SPICE. Seriously people, enough is enough . . .  I mean really, a combo of nutmeg and cinnamon is what will destroy this world. Have you ever watched a cinnamon challenge? A tablespoon of the stuff is enough to murder you. Anyway, now that the season which shall not again be name
and I started this book over.I believe my friend Mauoijenn summed it up best in her review.
I was flipping pages as fast as my fat little fingers would move and thinking FINALLY a thriller that’s really keeping me on the edge of my seat.
Who in their right mind discovers some superbadawful and decides they’re going to Jessica Fletcher the f*&^ out of it?????
That’s right, Jessica.
No one wants to read a “thriller” that plays out like a B-Horror movie .
ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
They were close to the end.'ABOUT THIS BOOK: #1 internationally bestselling author Karin Slaughter returns with a sophisticated and chilling psychological thriller of dangerous secrets, cold vengeance, and unexpected absolution, in which two estranged sisters must come together to find truth about two harrowing tragedies, twenty years apart, that devastate their lives.Sisters.
By the time I got to the end, I felt like I had been shot out of a cannon.I even learned a new word (and there is nothing I like better!).What connects the disappearance of a teenage girl and the murder of a middle-aged man, almost a quarter-century apart?More than twenty years ago, the disappearance of Claire and Lydia's 19 year old sister Julia tears their family apart.
I didn't dislike this, but I think these days it's pretty hard for me to be shocked by thrillers. My enjoyment of them hinges more on the character development and the way the story is written, which I thought was fairly average when compared to my favourites from the genre - Tana French and Gillian Flynn.The grittiness, shock tactics and reveals, which many people have praised, left me feeling relatively cold.
Personally I could have lived with the book ending around 60% instead of dragging on and on.
I wasn't...2.5 stars since I did like most of the story, but it would have been even better with around 100-150 fewer pages, less over the top twists (especially the big one when they found the house that just felt too much).Thanks to William Morrow and Edelweiss for providing me with a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review!
“Tell me you want this.” Karin Slaughter is one of my favorite authors and has been for years. No one can write a crime novel like her. Imagine my excitement when I saw that she was coming out with a psychological thriller! I had really high expectations going in and she delivered. As always, her writing is exceptional. Be prepared for a dark and disturbing read, that's full of shocking twists.A family was destroyed by the disappearance of a nineteen-year-old girl. Twenty-four years ago, Julia’
Be prepared for a dark and disturbing read, that's full of shocking twists.A family was destroyed by the disappearance of a nineteen-year-old girl.
Twenty-four years ago, Julia’s disappearance tore apart her mother, father and two sisters.
Part of the story is told from Sam's point of view and it's heartbreakingly sad.Julia’s two younger sisters took different paths in life.
There’s tension between them at first, but uncovering what happened, all those years ago, is what makes them whole again.There’s not much I can say without giving away the plot, but I will say this is a great read.
What happens when someone in your family disappears and is never found again?
I kept waiting for something good to happen to these destroyed characters and seeing more and more misfortune come their way was so not damn right.The secrets the family have are so devastating when revealed.
This is not a sweet and romantic suspense story….it’s scary, it’s frightening, it’s sad……what more can I add?Just that it’s a really good book and I can definitely recommend it.One of the quotes that grabbed me”
This book might need a trigger warning for those with genuine PTSD because of its brutal violence.
Normally I'd steer clear of suggesting that someone might have a hard time with a book, but this one is particularly gruesome and gory.
;)I particularly loved the chapters where Julia's dad wrote her letters.
It physically hurt to read the loving, fatherly tone, with his undying love for his missing daughter.
The world could've ended, and he wouldn't have sacrificed his love for his daughter.
His chapters completely redeemed the book imo, and made it worthwhile to finish the book until the end.
