https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556511.The_Very_Busy_Spider
One of my favorites in the series!Such a busy spider it was! Adorable execution!
One of the better murder stories I've read in some time. Entertainingly illustrated, with a cast of memorable characters that draw you further into the tale. Like in Prince of Thorns, you find yourself rooting for the villain by the end, tracing your finger along their beautiful instrument of death.
Each time, the spider didn't answer because she was busy spinning her web.
But, again, the spider didn't answer because she fell asleep, as it had been a very long day spinning her web.
The spider was determined to finish her web and not be distracted by running off with the different farm animals.
Her hard work paid off, because at night, she had caught a fly and was ready for bed.
Have the children glue the yarn around the circle and make their very own unique spider web.
Then when they are finished, glue a picture of a fly on it, to show their hard work paid off.
An important message about work-life balance for web developers.If you develop webs all day and don’t take breaks to socialize you will go to bed not having had any social interaction. Don’t do this!
Such inspirational book!!!I liked this busy spider way too much!I'm going to be focused and dedicated like it!
One of my favorite children's books!
Eric Carle is a classic to me and I love almost all of them!!!Thankfully, my kids do too :D
All of Eric Carle's books are PERFECT reads for all kids!!!!!!!!
Here is a very cute story about a spider building her web and all her friends trying to invite her to do other things. Done in water colors, this is a wonderfully bright book.
She does not engage in any of these requests and is determined to complete her task and ends up producing a beautiful silky spider web and she even catches a fly.I enjoyed this book as it was very interactive, especially for a young reader, as you are able to use many of your senses which is not always applicable to a lot of books.
As the blurb states “Pictures to feel as well as to see while you hear or read the story…” The pictures of the spider, the web and the fly are raised on the page so you are able to see and feel while you read.
I just hate spiders, even workaholic ones.
Overall, the book is an educational resource that encourages perseverance and hard work.
Interestingly, the most developed character is an inanimate object: The web.Throughout the story the reader senses the web's constant transformation.
In the end, it's almost like the web is 3D and you can literally feel it with your finger tips.Unfortunately, all other characters were fairly flat.
They were only briefly introduced and never heard from again.
I often wonder what happened to the Cow...
I think of her always, every time I come across a Chick-fil-A board or Shamrock Farms strawberry milk.
I also feel like some characters were given unfair stereotypes.
"Testet" /leste den ut på niesen min på to år, og den falt i god jord(leste den på norsk vel å merke). Tror den er midt i blinken for 2-3åringer. :)
I read this book to a reception class the other day and then brought it for my boys! Read it to them today and they loved it! Good one for teaching Little’s farm animal sounds :)
The kid loves it and thats all that matters :)
Cute story. The textured webs are fun to watch. This is a story about several things. #1. A spider who is so busy building her web that she has no time to talk to anyone. #2. Its a story about hard work paying off, and eventually getting a lovely rest at the end of a long day. #3. It teaches young children animal sounds, as well as animal behaviors. We learn that spiders build webs to catch flies in among other things.
The very busy spider by Eric CarleThis book is about a spider that spins a web with her silky thread on a fence post near a farmyard.Different farm animals come along and invite her to go and do different things with them, but the spider does not answer, as she is too busy spinning her web.‘Neigh!
She is too busy spinning her web.This book gives the children the opportunity to learn about different animals, the sounds they make and the activities they do.
The book also opens up opportunities for children to work with in the classroom; for example, the concept of hard work and how it pays off, and the process of spinning a web.
It is a perfect introduction to learning about different kinds of animals and an opportunity to copy the sounds they make.
The story begins one early morning when the spider starts to spin her web.
Various animals such as the pig, the horse, the cat or the cow try to interrupt and invite her to join their typical activities, but she does not answer, spinning the web without any break.
After such a busy day spider falls asleep.Astonishing illustrations and lots of repetitions make this book a perfect read for EYFS.
Moreover, it can be used as a starting point for different cross-curricular activities and acted out.
I love, love, love the illustrations of this book. Partly because I love Eric Carles work, but the fact that you can feel the book is very neat. In this story the farm animals come through the barn to talk to the spider but she doesn't answer because she is busy spinning her web. This is a good book for younger children because of the repetitive text of the animals asking questions and the spider not responding.The web is raised making this a great book for busy hands or the visually impaired.

Wow, these illustrations are awesome! My sister pointed this book out to me in the library -- I'm embarrassed to say I had never heard of it. It's a really cute story to read to kids to demonstrate the importance of hard work and to introduce various kinds of animals. I like that you can actually touch the pages and you'll feel the spider's web. Very nice touch!
This story can be used to teach the importance of focusing or more explicitly how spiders build webs to trap mosquitoes. The text is quite accessible for younger readers and introduces students to many different animals who try to tempt the spider away from her work. The repetition of "the spider didn't answer, she was very busy spinning her web" helps students build some high frequency words.
Another great book for identifying animals and imitating their sounds. The spider thread is lightly embossed on each page, allowing a fine texture that can be felt with the fingertips. This makes it very interesting to "feel" the spider web develop on each consecutive page. The tiny size of this book makes it perfect as a bring along anywhere.
A spider is busily working on her web, despite all the distractions the other farm animals provide.Now THIS is an Eric Carle book that I can get behind. I've decided I really like this The Very series of his. This is a simple but effective story about diligence and results, and the tactile element is a nice touch (pardon the pun).
Another favorite of my little one. This book taught her how to make animal sounds. Plus, I think she likes the way daddy gives each barnyard animal a funny voice. :-) I like the message of sticking to your goals and not letting distractions get to you (I still need to learn this sometimes).
This is a book with a lot of repetition, so it is very good for teaching predictions to young children. Also, Eric Carle does a great job making colorful books that children love.
I was first introduced to this book when I was a teacher's aide in my college's child study center. I have loved Eric Carle's books ever since! I love his style and especially his art work. :)
The very busy spider was about spinning in the spider web
Not as much story involved as with "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" or The Grouchy Ladybug", but still a nice offering. Young kids love to touch the raised "spiderwebs" on the pages.
I have read this one to Soren quite a lot. It is classic Carle. Fly gets eaten by the spider in the end, JSYK.
