https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78876.Maskerade
And while they're there, they might as well clear up all this phantom nonsense to boot.Maybe it was the predominantly female cast, but I enjoyed the stuffing out of this one.Granny gets to find out "What's Opera, Doc?" and Nanny provides possibly the best explanation of its charms that I've ever heard:"Well, it's quite simple reely," she said.
I'm a nosy person."I think, Granny Weatherwax is the woman I'd like to be - a thin, wise, knows-when-to-keep-her-mouth-shut, Katherine Hepburn-type of woman.
Nanny Ogg is the woman I am - a short, blowsy, doesn't-know-when-to-shut-up, Bette Midler-type of gal.
I always love Pratchett's witches books and this one was as usual laugh out loud funny. Granny Weatherwax is a wonderful character and then Death made several cameo appearances too which is always good. Pratchett was a master of parody and some of his allusions to opera and to musicals were brilliant.I think the Discworld will always remain one of my most favourite series and my number one "go to" books when I want to read something light, well written, smart and funny.
The Phantom of the Opera on the Discworld.All of Sir Terry Pratchett’s Discworld books are good but having an adventure with Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Og makes it all the better.
Here we find Lancre’s two most famous witches traveling to Ankh-Morpork to find Agnes Nitt who has taken up in the chorus of the Ankh-Morpork Opera house.
And of course they happen upon a Scooby-Doolicious murder mystery surrounding the legend of the opera ghost.As in all of the Discworld books, Pratchett tells the fun surface story and then also delves into satirical observations about so much more.
Here we explore themes of jealousy, greed, art and … the opera.
Phantom of the Opera!With the Witches!WHAT COULD GO WRONG?Well, obviously, anything. This is Opera and the Show Must Go On! With or without Greebo in the mix. :)Quite fun because I love the Phantom of the Opera and I love the Witches, but am I a fan of Anges?Nah. Not really. I keep wanting a certain Tiffany to join the stage. Patience, patience.
Of course Nanny and Granny (and sensible Agnes, with the great hair and the lovely personality) get involved, and do as only the Witches can do, making sense out of a whole mess of nonsense in every possible form.This is my eighteenth Discworld book, and I feel like I'm at the point in this series where Pratchett had just nailed his own style so hard that even the halfhearted books are pretty amazing.
It was also a bit more lightweight than my favorites, but the thing he does with masks was pretty great, and I really love Granny and Nanny, as well as reluctant Agnes.
So they are trying to recruit a witch called Anges but she is more than reluctant since she wants to become an Opera singer.Thus, Granny and Nanny travel to Ankh-Morpork and get "cultured".
(hide spoiler)] Always a delight.One last thought: the main witches are certainly Granny and Nanny but the one they choose as the third in the coven is kinda important, too, as is actually explained here.
Let’s do some good!’ she said, to the universe at large.Need I say anything more about the Granny Weatherwax, the speaker of this line?
In Maskerade, Granny and Nanny are faced with the difficulty of being a coven of only two witches.
Because, as we know, two witches is not a coven, it's an argument.
There has to be a third to settle the argument - or act as a buffer.Unfortunately, Agnes, the hopeful addition to Granny and Nanny, has set her mind on pursuing a musical career, and not on becoming a witch.
" '... anyway, you said you were at your wits' end with thinking what you'd do with the money.''Yes, but I'd have quite liked to have been at my wits' end on a big comfy chase longyou somewhere with lots of big, strong men buyin' me chocolates and pressin' their favors on me.''Money don't buy happiness, Gytha.''i only wanted to rent it for a few weeks.' "" 'Well, you are a witch!!! Can't you do that thing with the cards and glasses?''Well, yes ... we could have a poker game, ' said Nanny. 'Good
anyway, you said you were at your wits' end with thinking what you'd do with the money.''Yes, but I'd have quite liked to have been at my wits' end on a big comfy chase longyou somewhere with lots of big, strong men buyin' me chocolates and pressin' their favors on me.''Money don't buy happiness, Gytha.''i only wanted to rent it for a few weeks.' "" 'Well, you are a witch!!!
“Well, basically there are two sorts of opera," said Nanny, who also had the true witch's ability to be confidently expert on the basis of no experience whatsoever.
I didn’t think this one was as uproariously funny as Wyrd Sisters or Witches Abroad, but I did enjoy it.The story centers on some goings-on at an opera house.
As anybody who has read a few Pratchett books probably knows, multiple exclamation points are a sure sign of insanity!!!!!
Another character who we had met briefly in a previous Witches book took a major role in this story, and I liked her quite a bit.
I definitely liked her more than Magrat.I was surprised to look ahead on the reading list and realize there’s only one more Witches book to go.
Perdóneme Señor Pratchett porque al empezar el libro pensaba que no me iba a gustar mucho.
La serie de las brujas no es mi favorita y una historia ambientada en el mundo de la ópera no era lo que me llamaba más la atención.Pero lo que he descubierto ha sido una de las mejores novelas del Mundodisco.
Una parodia del teatro y la ópera con acción constante, gente entrando y saliendo entre bambalinas, decenas de personajes, misterios que resolver y un simio tocando el órgano.
Y todo perfectamente hilado para no perdernos entre tanto caos.Ya no volveré a dudar más de usted.
I always figured if I were in the opera house and saw what was going on, I'd try to make Christine see the light.Now, thanks to Agnes Nitt, I know that wouldn't have worked.
Esme Weatherwax is just as wise and cranky as ever as well.I remember my first read-through of this book, and how distressed I felt that Pratchett wasn't writing about his wizards.
Now I look over my Pratchett collection and have to say my favorite books don't involve the wizards at all.
And what has the Ghost of the Opera got to do with it?We've had a lot of the Witches by this stage in the series and Pratchett has absolutely nailed the characters of Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg by this stage.
Agnes/Perdita makes for a wonderful third for the trio, but the real star of this one is the absolute insanity of the Ankh Morpork Opera and the skewering it gives to the Phantom.My only criticism of it though is that it isn't quite as good as some of the other Witch books, and I feel it drags in places.
Pratchett takes us to the opera4 November 2014 Since Margrat Garlick has gone on to do bigger and better things (such as ruling) the remaining two witches are at a loss as to who would fill the missing spot in their 'coven'. They did settle on Agnes, however it seems that she also has better things to do, such as run off to Anhk Morpork to become a world famous opera singer. There are a couple of problems with this though (not that she is unable to become an opera singer, despite the suggestion
Pratchett takes us to the opera4 November 2014	Since Margrat Garlick has gone on to do bigger and better things (such as ruling) the remaining two witches are at a loss as to who would fill the missing spot in their 'coven'.
Of course, as we are probably aware, the phantom (or ghost in this book) also wears a mask so as to conceal his identity, but this works further to create a vastly different identity where the identity of the ghost, for a while, is thought to be somebody else.
Granny and Nanny ARE great characters, they have interesting adventures and the stories are generally reused, reimagined, re-buggered about with, classics of literature i.e. established high quality structure with a fair bit of cunning imagination thrown in to the mix.
How I empathized with Agnes, cursed with a good personality and nice hair, instead of a trim figure and a pretty face.
Knowing that she was always expected to be calm and sensible and capable, resenting it, and yet unable to help herself in always being the calm and sensible and capable one in a crisis.
What young woman wouldn’t be horrified to see her own future in Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax?
And yet, there is certainly power in embracing your true self.
I’m a little sad that there’s only one more book in the Witches series from the Discworld books.
So far, this one is my favorite.
What a wonderful trip with Granny and Nanny to Ankh-Morpork to go and visit the opera. I loved how the idea of seeing what is really there was explored as well as pointing out superficiality in people in general and in star quality in particular.
Pratchett has his own unique wonderful style and is truly a master at his craft.So many things that I loved about this book.1.
2. I like how Pratchett brought up the issues of weight, with women and especially in show business and the pressures women face to be nice.
Even so...it was an old superstition-older than books, older than writing-and beliefs like that were heavy weights on the rubber sheet of human experience, tending to pull people into their orbit." It becomes much more about needing another person in the group to be a witch and train, keeping Granny good than filling in the stereotypical roles of women.
This is a fun take on the world of opera, with lots of sly, punny references to various works, plus a cute twist on The Phantom of the Opera.
I really liked how Pratchett stripped all the highfallutin aspects away to reveal the absurdity.
I managed to guess the identity of the killer correctly, although I'd hoped I was wrong, since I rather liked the character.
Pratchett went with realism for what becomes of the Agneses and Christines(!) of the world, and I know that tune all too well.
But, overall, it's a fun book, packed with plenty of Pratchett's delightful storytelling, wry observations, and hilarious turns-of-phrase.
They're still fantastic, hilarious, amazing characters but I want more.Plus I had a hard time liking Agnes/Perdita because she was such a ...
Granny and Nanny, don't particularly force her into anything and don't tell her what to do, just keep the door open for her but it's just so not fair that in the end, Agnes left the opera not because it was her choice...
I mean, in most of his books, Terry always makes the ending - no matter how bitter - feel just and right in the end.
Que bien me lo he pasado. Es uno de mis favoritos de las brujas.
Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax are near the top of the list when it comes to my favourite characters in the series, and they are at their best when thrown out of their usual element.
High society and culture are probably about as far out as you can get!My favourite part was a brief moment when we get to peer inside Detritus' head as he thinks through an usual situation.
Pratchett's characters always come with their own limits, quirks and unique ways of thinking (such as the Ogg's view on possession of property) and that is what makes the characters so lively.Oh, and there are plenty of jibes about the opera.
Here it is:*I kinda like Andrew Lloyd Webber musicals*And, as a closet (okay, not so closeted anymore) 'Phantom of the Opera' fan (phan?) This particular Pratchett title, which manages to gently poke fun at both 'traditional' opera ("another thing I can't stand about opera...
And no-one ever says so!!!") and also musical theatre ("An opera about Cats?' she said, 'Never heard of an opera about cats...") is a damn good read.It also contains his witches who, as I've mentioned in review of one of his other books, are among Pratchett's most masterful creations.
1 Jan 200019 July 201413 Aug 2016This was one of the first Discworld books I ever read, and I wouldn't recommend it as a good place to start.
There's Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg (and Greebo) which is to the good, but Death makes only a token appearance, and it isn't very kind.
Against that you have to balance the business of pity toward Agnes.
And everyone pities Agnes, despite her astounding voice, because there's just no way she's ever going to get a man.
Probably even Pratchett realized how poorly he'd done by her, since he didn't try to give her a substantial role in another book.Personal copy.
Sir Terry's Witches series is not among my favorites. This is his re-imagined version of the Phantom of the Opera story, featuring Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Agnes Nit, who has run off to Ankh-Morpork. Singing under her pseudonym of Perdita X. Nitt, she quickly finds herself subordinated to a more attractive girl, for whom she provides her beautiful voice. Meanwhile, the benign Ghost starts killing folks, requiring the intervention of Granny and Nanny Ogg. The bastardized opera names are a hoot, as is the fun poked at sponsors, stars, and opera lovers.
Pleased that Maskerade is loosely framed by one of my favorite musicals, delighted to see the return of Lancre’s dynamic duo in search of a trio after a fantastic turn in Lords and Ladies, with more than an allusion to Witches Abroad, impressed with DEATH’s cameos and Nanny’s aphrodisiac recipes, and thrilled with the backstage access, where drama goes after it has left the stage.
In Maskerade, Pratchett reveals his own mask (thank you, Wastrel, for thoughts on that).
4.5 stars rounded up, with some reach.[* Discworld #19, Witches sub-series: Maskerade #5, Lords and Ladies #4, Witches Abroad #3, Wyrd Sisters #2, Equal Rites #1]
Changed this rating from 4 to 5 stars- just so clever and funny!
Es posible que las brujas sea mi saga favorita de lo que llevo de Mundodisco.
De ahí pasábamos a la sucesión de divertidas ocurrencias que era Brujas de viaje para, en Lores y damas, demostrarnos que también había lugar para otros sentimientos (y, de camino, terminar de encumbrar a Yaya Ceravieja).Después de esta estupenda progresión Mascarada es un cierto paso atrás.
Es divertido, pero no destaca en ningún aspecto: ni por su humor, ni por su historia, ni por el toque tierno con el que a veces Pratchett nos desarma incluso en libros menores (estoy pensando en ese estupendo y lacrimógeno final que redime a El segador).
Pratchett's Discworld novels are my favorite light reading.
He takes bits of our society -- and our language -- and turns them upside-down, inside-out (and sometimes backwards in time) so he can hold them up to the reader with a conspiratorial grin.
I often find myself, well, not exactly laughing out loud, more like snorting noisily through my nose (sntmn?) at his outrageous twists and turns.
The sacred cow that Pratchett milks for this novel -- with the help of Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg -- is the world of opera and musical theater.
(Relectura Mundodisco #18)Yaya Ceravieja y Tata Ogg van a la ciudad en busca de una tercera bruja para completar el aquelarre, y se ven envueltas en una trama de misterios y asesinatos en la ópera.Como siempre nos encontramos brillantes reflexiones y ocurrencias por toda la novela, aunque su punto fuerte son los momentos protagonizados por Yaya y Tata, los personajes más carismáticos.
Por contra, los secundarios me han parecido algo más flojos que en otras novelas.
Los diálogos brillan más que la historia en sí, pero no supone ningún problema ni impide que sea una novela muy disfrutable y divertida.
Terry Pratchett la emprende con el fantasma de la Opera. y como armas utiliza a Yaya Ceravieja y Tata Ogg. Menos logrado que sus antecesores en cuanto a carga simbólica, pero igual de divertido que siempre; asistimos a la demolición de la mitología de la Opera, el Musical y el Folletín decimonónico en las peligrosas calles de Ank-Morpork.
