https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769016.How_to_Talk_So_Kids_Will_Listen_Listen_So_Kids_Will_Talk
Should be subtitled, "Baby Boomer Parents Backlash Against Harsh Old-School Discipline." If you weren't the kind of parent to call your kids names or whup them one on the rear end in the first place, this book has little to offer you but either validation or frustration.
I want to be authoritative without crossing the line to the kind of bad old days meanness shown in the bad examples in this book, but the book didn't do much to show me that middle ground.
Had good info and tips, but not 100% realistic regarding how quickly things would improve. After reading this I'm not sure I would recommend it. Better you check out  ✨ Talking to Toddlers program by Chris Thompson  to helps you to approach the most effective methods to deal with your kid's behavior. It consists of the easy methods and tricks to involve your kids in listening and doing as you ask. You also can learn what the most common language mistakes parents make which can cause your kids t
Had good info and tips, but not 100% realistic regarding how quickly things would improve. After reading this I'm not sure I would recommend it. Better you check out 
  ✨ Talking to Toddlers program by Chris Thompson
 to helps you to approach the most effective methods to deal with your kid's behavior. It consists of the easy methods and tricks to involve your kids in listening and doing as you ask. You also can learn what the most common language mistakes parents make which can cause your kids to do the opposite of what you want.
I found it very helpful, especially since we just had our second child who had colic and the 6 year old and I were no longer communicating well.
You always forget things!" you just say, "Homework needs to go to school with you." There techniques eliminate the blaming and other behaviors we learned as children and replace them with more helpful ways to dialogue and focus on solving the problem versus seeking to blame.
One of the best communication books I've ever read.
Not bad
There is good advice in here if you don't already employ many of the suggestions herein.
Since I already do, I didn't find it any sort of revelation.
I read it in the hopes of finding a way to make my 4-year-old listen to me on the subject of "DON'T RUN AWAY FROM MOM AND DAD, PARTICULARLY IN A CROWDED PLACE - IT IS NOT A GAME", but was disappointed to find no help on that front.
I'm afraid "Sweetie, please don't run away - it makes us worried" and "How do YOU think we can help you to stop running off, Pumpkin?" just don't cut it!
Nice book
Oh dude this book is awesome! It's intended as a guide for parents and educators to help them communicate with kids, but instead I got my hands on it when I was about nine years old, and it helped me refine my own immature communication skills. A life-changing book for me, for all the wrong reasons.
Worth to read, it's helpul
I read this book about 5 years ago.
This book was first published in 1982, but when it comes to parenting I think that the really good advice is timeless.
In re-reading "How to talk..." I am discovering that many of the times when I am most effective/happy with myslelf as a mom I am using the principals that I read in Faber and Mazlish's wonderful work.
The book is an extraordinarily valuable tool.
I am neither, and yet Faber and Mazlish give parents such wonderful ways to say the mundane things that we have to say all the time.
الكتاب رائع رائع رائع. عادة لا اثق بهذا النوع من الكتب لكن طبقته على اولاد خالتي وصدمت. الطفل يحتاج لمن يسمعه ويحتاج للتعبير عن مشاعره سواء عبر الكلام او الرسم .... الطفل لا يفهم المحاضرات الطويلة العريضة التي يلقيها الكبار جملة قصيرة وكلمات تقال بطريقة حازمة كافية لجعله يفهم. وانت تربي طفلك احرص على عدم تدمير شخصيته بالاهانات والعقاب بالضرب امنحه حرية التعبير والاختيار والمساعدة في حل مشاكله هذا يتطلب الكثير من الصبر والممارسة لكن الا يستحق طفلك ذلك . ونصائح اخرى ستساعد من جهة الاباء على التقليل من التوتر وشغب الاطفال ومن جهة اخرى على تربية طفلك دون ايذائه
VERY applicable whether you're dealing with a 3-year-old, your spouse, your boss, or your 80-year-old neighbor. This is one of my most recommended books to families doing therapy.I actually currently use parts of this in group therapy sessions to teach adolescents in a therapeutic boarding school how to handle family conflicts. And we do role-plays based on its comic-strip-style illustrations and draw application to their every-day lives. It's so successful, they want me to tell their therapists where to get a copy of the book!
It's more effective than a medical prescription!!Very simple cards of instructins make you feel better about yourself and your childIt gave me the feeling that everyone can be perfect parent , but we have to keep it in mind :)HAPPY READING
Timeless advice.Other reviews have suggested this book is for "REALLY bad" parents who don't have "a clue" how to speak to their children.
Or that this book will teach you "emotionless parenting" and fails to address how and when to give your children the advice they need.I strongly disagree with these sentiments.
While many parents come to this book in crisis, I caution them against feeling they are currently bad parents.
You will be far more informed (and enlightened) on how to address your children's emotions and offer advice at a time and in a way they can hear you after reading this book.
حينما تقرأ خاتمة هذا الكتاب ستعرف بأنه "باكورة" مشروع لن ينتهي، ومشاريع تمت فعلا. كتاب واقعي بمعايير عالية جدا بسيط في أسلوبه صريح وقوي في مواجهته لعيوب التربية مميز في وضعه لتمارين داخله يمكن تنفيذها بكل سهولة. دليل عملي لابد من الرجوع إليه عدة مرات. يواجه الأهل بضعفهم و يرشدهم لطريقة تدارك الخطأ. هذا الكتاب لابد أن يُدَرّس ويُحَوّل لدورات تدريبية مستقلة ومتعددة.
Don't believe people reading on their Kindle in the métro are only 50-Shades types, they may simply hide that they are reading self-help or parenting books.
I was actually quite ashamed of reading this one, which I got as a Daily Deal on Amazon.
It turned out to have extremely ugly cartoons, commonsense principles ("it may not be that good an idea to hit your child") and relatively good advice.
As the title suggests it's all about unprejudiced communication between parents and children.
It can't hurt to think about it and change.
I would normally just tell her, "go clean out the sink" and she would, possibly accompanied by a roll of the eyes or attempt to blame her brother.
This time I tried a couple of techniques from the book, rather than an order I gave her a description of what I saw, I said, "I see a bunch of tooth paste in the sink." Response: "sorry," while continuing to do whatever she was doing.
Finally, I say, "go clean the sink" which she does accompanied by a roll of the eyes or attempt to blame her brother.
من أجمل الكتب التربوية الي قرأتها و اثر في تفكيري تاثير كبيركتاب سلس ..سهل،.ممتع في قراءتهكله تجارب و أمثلة واقعية من مواقف الاباء مع أبنائهم وتطبيقهم للمهارات الموجودة في الكتاب و نتائجهافيه تمرينات على كل فصل للاباء على استخدام المهاراتو مدعم بصور توضيحية لأمثلة للمواقف بين الاباء و أطفالهم و ما هو التصرف الصحيح و الخاطيء في كل موقفاستمتعت و استفدت جدا بقراءة الكتابانصح به بشده لكل من يتعامل مع الأطفال
كتاب رائع ,وهو كما يقول العنوان ,كيف تتحدث الى الصغار ,يخبرك الكتاب كيف تحترم مشاعر الصغير وكيف تتعا
Philosophically I agree with the discipline practices this book explains, but the examples with parents smacking their kids or labeling them with words like "greedy" felt so extreme that it was sometimes hard to read through it to get to what the authors advocated one should do. I did appreciate the tips pages on helping children deal with their feelings, engaging a child's cooperation, alternatives to punishment, and alternative to "no". The chapter on praise is one of the best explanations I've read so far about the negative effects of praise.
من الكتب المفيدة جدا في فهم الأولاد بالطريقة الصحيحة التي تتفهم مشاعرهم عندما يتصرفون بطريقة لا تعجبنا ، تدرك من خلال هذا الكتاب ابعاد في شخصية اولادك لم تكن تلتفت لها سوف تراجع كل ردات فعلك السابقة وتحاول بناء ردات فعل مناسبة لتحقيق تربية أكثر عمقاً لأحاسيسهم وقدراتهم وتمنياتهم .
يمتاز هذا الكتاب بأسلوب رائع موجز ورسوم كاريكاتورية لطيفة توصل المعلومة بطريقة مبتكرة ولا شك أن في الكتب المترجمة ما فيها من مخالفات تفرضها مجتمعات الغرب الغارقة في وهم الحرية .. لكن الكتاب يقدم أسلوبا ممتازا لاحتواء الطفل والتعامل مع مشكلاته بمهارة. من أروع الكتب التربوية المترجمة ..
I was a little tired of it by the time I got to this one, but because it took me so long to get it on hold I thought I'd go for it.This long story was to say-I loved it!
This was less "discipline" and way more into communication and I just loved it.
Also, it was similar to the other books I've read so far but I just "got it" so much better with the way they presented the info in this book.
I would definitely recommend it as my favorite parenting book I've read so far.
Useful MaterialThe techniques of mindful listening, thinking, and speaking that are discussed in this text seem really useful in the everyday world.
Hard to know, since I don't have a lot of experience with children.The advice in the book was derived from counseling sessions helping parents with children who were having serious behavioral problems.
While the authors argue that the advice applies more generally, I couldn't help but be struck by the fact that many of the things the authors said not to do were things that I can't imagine myself doing in the first place.
Still, even though much of the advice seems very straightforward, and I didn't agree with everything, I think it does have some useful info, and it is such a fast read that it is probably a worthwhile thing for new parents to pick up and go through.
אולי זה בגלל שהן מדברו בגובה העניים, בסיכום הכללי, לכל אחת מהן יש שישה ילדים (אם להאמין למה שכתוב) שזה 4 ילדים יותר ממני, כדאי לי לקרוא מה שיש להן לאמר.מה ששבר את גב הגמל, וגרם לי לקרוא אותן ברצינות, היתה העובדה המפתיעה, שהן כל כך מפורסמות, עד שאפילו אימי שמעה עליהן מחברות לעבודה, שיוצאות באמצע היום לסדנאות שהן מעבירות!טוב אחרי המידע הזה, כבר לא יכלתי להתכחש שיש משהו בשיטה והתחלתי לקרוא במרץ וסיימתי אותו במהרה.בסך הכל הספר מפתיע בתובנת שבו.
הוא מתבסס על הערכה הדדית בין המבוגר לילד.כמו שכתבתי, אני מצאתי אותו מועיל בחלק מהדברים ואף התחלתי ביישום.
Using the techniques in this book I have stopped tantrums before they could begin and have seen conversations with my kids miraculously changed.I'm not even kidding.I would recommend this book to anyone.
I didn't even realize what a poor communicator I was being until I was reading it in the book.
Now my husband and I can recognize when we're poorly communicating with the kids and can call each other out on it -- it's fun to see the other spouse scramble to change their negative communication and "fix" a conversation with the kids :) Definetly something to read with your spouse.
The whole book is great, but I particularly like the cartoons which show you two alternative approaches to a conversation, one where parent and child are talking at each other and end up at odds, and the other where they are listening and responding and end up on the same side.
Check out the 'turtle' cartoon - it's priceless.I also loved its helpful insights on things like the power of sympathetic silence - sometimes the best communication doesn't involve words, and the section on helping a child come up with their own solutions - so much more effective when they've made it their own.
One day your kid turns 5 and you think to yourself, "What on earth am I doing, I should probably have some sort of plan, because this little guy is kind of an A-hole?"This is my first book on parenting and I found it illuminating.
Whether or not I agree with everything 100%, it's still gave me strategies to try out and see how they work with my kids and my parenting style.
It's a good guide to just be thinking of ways I can parent better.
I flatly refuse to write notes from discarded toys and towels, find "I-speak" problematic (IMO, this may teach kids, later teens, to prioritize their emotions, instead of what and why should be done - sorry, I teach/ used to teach high school/ uni students), and shudder at the thought of using therapy-speak to children (it might be effective, but a) I have a moral problem with it, and b) no one will ever talk like that to them for free when they're adults).
On the whole: I might adopt some techniques this book describes, but I'll feel bad about it.
I love this book!
It was recommended to a room of teachers by a child psychologist who said that she recommends this book to any parent who walks through her door.
It is easy to read and understand.
It uses common sense practices -but better help one to see them.Basically, when I employ these practices -we're a happier family.
When I don't -I go re-read the book.
This stuff even works on strangers kids.
It's really about a way of looking at and talking to children that respects the needs of the parent and the realities of the child.
