https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96714.Negative_Dialectics
I'm not sure you can read this translation and have any idea what Adorno was getting at.
Adorno's basic insight isn't even that hard to grasp, though: philosophy fails because it assumes the world must be consistent.
Hence, no matter how rational we make things (thankyou, econometricians) the whole is irrational, hence, 'contradictory.' So when philosophy claims that it has understood the consistent world, it is just covering up the antagonism.
But it's also good, since it suggests that the world doesn't *have* to be antagonistic.
Yes!
The Redmond translation is basically unintelligible. It seems like a completely literal translation from German. This is great, for accuracy's sake, but not so great for reading. I would stick with the Ashton version. It might not be as true to Adorno, but it would at least be readable.
What must be integrated, in non-identifying fashion, into experience is precisely the non-experiential; that which is non-identical must be seen to be, not reconciled with the identical in Hegelian fashion, but simply and solely as non-identical.
In other words, the positivists are just as much as the Nazis against the Enlightenment, in the sense that human dignity is to be disregarded, because it doesn't show up (is, precisely, the thing-in-itself).
Socialism would be the Brownian motion of human dignity; and it is not to be ruled out tout court, by saying that we have, in effect, achieved the Enlightened Prussian state - not after Auschwitz.
Not for the content, but for the translation of the content. This translation is notoriously bad. It is not a literal translation from the German as is often said, but literally skips explicit references and does not note implicit references to Kant and Hegel nor does the translator use the standard German translations in the scholarly idiom for those terms. A nightmare translation
I read what I wanted to read from it, primarily his critiques of Hegel. Its from these critiques that something practically useful for those of us who engage in both practice and theory can manifest; as for the rest of the book, its unintelligible.
"Kids, don't do absolute dialetics" - Adorno, maybeA very usefull lens throught which to look at Hegel and ordinary Marxism. It just happens to be buried in a lot of critique of Kant, Hegel and Heidegger.
Amazing work but the translation is UTTER SHIT. It actually pained me to read it, but I'm holding out for a better edition... why are all the Adorno translations horrible? The recent Stanford publication of Dialectic of Enlightenment is a step up from the 70's Verso one, but parts still read like transliteration.2 stars for the translation, 5 for the content (I would suppose)
"Minima Moralia" ile birlikte Adorno'nun en hermetik metinlerinden biri kanımca "Negatif Diyalektik".
Özellikle şu iki önermeye katılmam mümkün değil: "Mutlak ve bütüncül öznenin felsefesi, tikeldir." ve "Tarihten kaçabilmenin tek yolu gerilemektir.
Tarih, ezelden beri hakikati değil mutlak bir yanılsama durumunu, insanın uyuşmuş bir halde doğaya esir olmasını hedeflemiştir - doğaüstü kavramı, doğanın anlaşılamayan ve nüfuz edilemeyen parçasının bir parodisidir en fazla." Araçsallaştırmadan sıklıkla söz eder Adorno, "Aydınlanmanın Diyalektiği"nde de örneğin.
Tarihin ve öznenin bu şiddette araçsallaştırıldığı bir metin bulmak zor ve her ne kadar aksini iddia etse de post-marksistler ve Adorno arasındaki çizgi sanıldığından daha kısa.
This was definitely the hardest book I have ever read, even though I was lucky enough to have a professor give us commentary on the reading every week, I probably only a grasped a small fraction of the content.
Proficiency in German Idealism is required!
For those of you who haven't read Heidegger, Hegel, Husserl, Schopenhauer, Kant, Nietzsche, Aristotle, etc.
Nevertheless, I highly recommend this book!
This work, along with other of his books, launched the prescient field of critical theory.
The current political climate has sparked a resurgence of this field and therefore is a must for any person interested in deep analyses of culture.
I have the Ashton edition of this book. Despite having read and enjoyed other Frankfurt School texts, and despite having a terminal degree in philosophy, the text of this book is so unreadable that it is borderline offensive. Other readers have asserted that this issues from the inelegance of the translation, so I will suspend judgment about the work itself, except to say that I get nothing whatsoever out of trying to read it in good faith.
Elimde uzun kitaplar arasında ayrı bir yeri var bu kitabın. Hatta kitabı bitirir bitirmez yeniden okunması gerekenler listesine almıştım bile. Kendime ısrarla ben amatörce felsefe okuyorum dememe neden olan kitaplar arasında yer alıyor. Tam anladığımı zannettikten iki sayfa sonra düştüğüm duruma güleyim mi üzüleyim mi bilemiyorum. :)
Great work, unbearable translation. No one has stepped up to do a new one. hi ho.
Will return after reading more Hegel and Kant.
If you aren't intimately familiar with Kant, Hegel, Marx and Heidegger, 75% of Adorno's thinking will pass through you like undigested apple seeds; vast swathes of jargon with very little in the way of concrete oases for the amateur mind to replenish itself.
Bits and pieces on free will, metaphysics and death filter through nonetheless, and Adorno's central thesis (namely, Enlightenment's tendency of relegating that which 'rationality' doesn't cover to not just complete irrelevance but epistemological nonexistence, and the way this correlates with our problematic collective vision of death) gradually makes itself clear by way of grinding, pounding repetition: reified identity is a problem, coming to terms with non-identity the way to go.The final chapter, decreeing ominously to tackle philosophy after Auschwitz, reads like the non-negotiable obituary of 2600 years of philosophy.
would even be 3 stars- since at least 60% of the book is Adorno's critique of Hegel and Kant...which I personally find pretty boring.
The sections in which he goes beyond the standard academic type critique of western philosophy are definitely awesome though.
I especially like his presentation of freedom within the real economic/political context we live in- as well as his analysis of death and meaning in a world that has seen the horrors of the early 20th century.
Adorno is at his best subjecting Kants philosophy to later day positivi, most of his critique are points thinkers like Hannah Arendt wrestled with in their work. German idealism definitely has had a big impact on modern philosophy from the 18-19th century question of free will, freedom, thinking, rationality, subjectivity to the questions of evil in contemporary philosophy. Adorno is definitely right to call philosophy to wake up from its idealism and wrestle with the social conditions that philosophy finds its self in as part of the world. Worthwhile read.
I'm not confident that I fully understand negative dialectics as Adorno theorizes it - this book is quite long and challenging - but it feels more important than I am able to grasp without assistance, which I didn't have at the time of reading this book. Still, it opened up a nuance of interpretive analysis I hadn't thought of prior. The introduction alone is worth reading.
Still waiting on this retranslation... I hope all is well with Bob. If you are even mildly interested in this work, read it and read it again. Obviously this is Adorno's most programmatic philosophical statement, a working-through of Kant and Hegel with Marx as analyst and Heidegger as antagonist (cf. Jargon). Impossible to overstate the importance of this tome.
very useful, even if it reads as being a touch dated now. adorno's "negation" is really a sort of whacked-out socially responsible positivism. he hides it in a lot of elegant antinomy though. apparently that's what needed to make truth non-hegemonic. AGAIN.
I don't know if it's a loss in translation but Negative Dialectics reads like a German Jaimini. The style is dense to say the least but the content is genuinely exciting. I've given up on it for now will get back once I've read some of his more fundamental publications.
tell me more/ tell me more/ didya get very far?
Incomprehensible beauty.
This gave me a headache. Less cantankerous than the Adorno I'm familiar with, but almost entirely grounded in area in not particularly well versed in.
haven't even started this one, but I have high hopes
i'm using "reading" really loosely, here.
Reading for the introduction to my dissertation.
Without Susan Buck-Morss I would've been lost. Takes a lot of mental concentration to apply his theory.
Parataxis is rather taxing. - One of the more exhausting reads I've attempted.
sentimental-humanist quasi-deconstruction, used it in an essay about ulysses
