https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240130.The_Paper_Bag_Princess
It’s so important for children to be exposed to feminism through their reads. The Paper Bag Princess, you did a good job showing the princess isn’t always the one who needs saving, so we should stop assuming that.
The beautiful Princess Elizabeth lives in a castle and is engaged to marry Prince Ronald.
Since all her clothes are ruined, Princess Elizabeth dons a paper bag and sets off to save her prince.
She looked everywhere for something to wear, but the only thing she could find that was not burnt was a paper bag.
So she put on the paper bag and followed the dragon.
Come back when you are dressed like a real princess.”In a twist ending that glimmers with female empowerment, Elizabeth (view spoiler)[realizes Ronald is not all he’s cracked up to be and decides not to marry him after all.
Girl meets boy. Boy meets dragon. Girl loses boy and clothes. Girl uses paper bag as dress. Girl defeats dragon. Girl gets boy back again. Boy is ungrateful. Boy loses girl. THE END
Why have I never heard of Robert Munsch before?
This is from 1980 and it's serious girl power.
This princess is in love with the prince.
She learns quickly he's not worth her love and she MOVES on.
I mean this is revolutionary.
All girls need to grow up reading this story.
It is fantastic.
Robert is on my list of authors to read so I will be going through his books.
This was a fantastic story.
The kids enjoyed it too with dragons and princesses.
I like this princess, she has worth.
This is my bailiwick.
I adore this story.
It is never too early to teach girls to not settle, and to save the prince! Even if Ronald is a pathetic prince.
My students did not enjoy this book. They thought it was super annoying.
However, two things really bugged me--***SPOILERS*** 1st, was it Ronald or Elizabeth who was being false before she came to rescue him--i.e., did she originally pretend to be a proper princess, or was he just hiding his jerky-ness?
I know this was written nearly thirty years ago, but certainly even then it was distressing for a dragon to destroy hundreds of trees, and potentially harm lots of wildlife living there.
I know, that is reading a lot into the story, but, still...
I guess I'm just disappointed as I wanted to like this SO much as I know it's really popular.
I have recently re-read a book from the popular duo that I had enjoyed during my childhood called “The Paper Bag Princess” and it is about how a princess is stripped down to wearing a plain paper bag when a dragon attacks her castle and she has to go rescue Prince Ronald, who has been kidnapped by the dragon.
“The Paper Bag Princess” is definitely one of Robert Munsch’s and Michael Martchenko’s most hilarious books ever written!Elizabeth was a beautiful princess who was going to marry Prince Ronald.
Thanks to my GR friend Hannah for alerting me to this book. I will enjoy reading it to my granddaughters (when they are a little older)My own reading time: less than 120 seconds; longer when reading to someone special.A delightful twist on a classic situation when Princess Elizabeth sets out to rescue Prince Ronald, to whom she is betrothed. She is smart and feisty and, ultimately, successful.An excellent opportunity for discussion: of means and results; of roles and responsibilities; of parents' plans and what is right.
To be honest, I'm not sure I got the moral here. Maybe, don't let anyone make you feel bad about yourself. A princess decided to live differently bc of a snooty prince's teasing. And she toughened up. There might be a little 'girl power ' message in here too, with a side of - 'honey you're too young to be worrying about that now', and finally some - 'don't bullies just suck'?
4 Smart princess STARS Al buscar libros feministas para niñxs, este siempre aparecía primero. Narra una historia sencilla de como una princesa se embarca en una aventura para rescatar al príncipe del que esta enamorada, de las garras de un furioso dragon. Pero lo mejor es el final cuando la princesa se da cuenta que ella es lo suficientemente valiente e inteligente como para derrotar un dragón y que no necesita casarse con un príncipe malagradecido y superficial, para ser feliz. Cumple en enseñ
Al buscar libros feministas para niñxs, este siempre aparecía primero.
Narra una historia sencilla de como una princesa se embarca en una aventura para rescatar al príncipe del que esta enamorada, de las garras de un furioso dragon.
Pero lo mejor es el final cuando la princesa se da cuenta que ella es lo suficientemente valiente e inteligente como para derrotar un dragón y que no necesita casarse con un príncipe malagradecido y superficial, para ser feliz.
Un clásico que todos las niñxs deberían leer.
Le compre este libro a mi hija para regalárselo en navidad, me muero por leerlo juntas.
An absolute must read for every girl from birth through forever...I'm not a raging feminist, but I am a huge believer in a girl knowing that she can rescue herself and anyone else who needs it - if they want her help. This book reinforces how to be resourceful, have confidence, and know when to walk away. My daughter received this gift the day she was born and we've read it a thousand times. One of the few that is still on the bookshelf, more than a decade later.
I get what they were trying to do, but the story was way too short for the out-of-left-field feminist denouement. (*) I did like the illustrations, though.(*) Fine, there was a brief reference in an illustration to the Prince not being as interested in the Princess as she was in him, but it wasn't explicit, and I've not yet met a child of the likely age range who could handle any degree of subtlety.
I don't even know how many times I've read this.
We even had a recording at one point of the author reading it (Robert Munsch is a great storyteller; if you ever get a chance to see or hear him read one of his books, take it).
This is one of those books where the princess does the rescuing, and she does it in a very clever way.
I wasn't sure when I picked it up if it had stood the test of time.
Such an empowering story for girls!
When she emerges triumphant from battling the dragon, like a spunky, young lady Beowulf, Ronald is totally grossed out by her appearance and tells her not to come near him until she showers and changes and fixes her hair and looks like a beautiful princess again.To this, the paper bag princess replies (I'm paraphrasing): "Ronald, you are very handsome in your fancy clothes, and you may look like a prince, but you are a BUM!" Then she kicks him to the curb and goes dancing off into the sunset, exuberant and free in her singed paper bag outfit.While obviously there's a feminist tone to this story, its more important message transcends gender: this book teaches kids the important lesson that they do not need someone else around who doesn't value them for their finer qualities.
3.5/5.0 starsYesssss!
A reversal!
In kids book, no less!!
My appeal simply is, for us to not be monopolized by generic stories of damsels in distress and knights in shining armor, they're cute sure, but also confining.
Step out of the box and in doing so, we compel writers to up their game as well.All considered, this book sits in-between old-school and modern tale.
This makes for a good bedtime story.
In my opinion, all kids should read books like this that shows the flip side and a different perspective from the usual just to even the grounds a bit.

Reprint of a picture book from the 1980s. The story reminds me of a Fractured Fairy Tale from Rocky & Bullwinkle.
I have always thought that this book is humorous...and yet I have never LOVED it.Things I like:1.
This could be used in a character education lesson to talk about humility as well as courage.3.
The complete lack of gratitude or respect shown to Elizabeth by Ronald.
I think that often, in the quest to show that girls/women can be strong, brave, intelligent and independent many people then portray men as the exact opposite of those things.
Elizabeth would not have been any less brave, clever or creative if Ronald had shown appreciation for her actions.
Loved this book. What kind of princess do you want to be? If you want to be a Sleeping Beauty kind of princess, this book is not for you. If you want to be an empowered, capable princess, our paper bag Princess will speak volumes.
Best kids story.
This is so good . The ending is everything, I laughed so hard :))
Found this on the bookshelf today. Thirty-five years after it was first published, it is still a fun and empowering read.
Haven't read this book since I was little but man, it's so great. Getting to read picture books for university never stops being awesome.
Love this modern twist on outdated fairy tale assumptions. In this picture book, a clever princess rescues her prince(view spoiler)[, who turns out to be more of a toad, so she dumps him with no regret (hide spoiler)]. First published in 1980, this book was way ahead of its time and is still very relevant and much needed today.

I have always loved this story because for once when it comes to Princes and Princesses we have a strong Female character. Princess Elizabeth is to Marry Prince Ronald, but all this changes when a Fierce Dragon comes and attacks the castle and kidnaps the Prince. Elizabeth ends up having to wear a paper bag and goes through some trials in order to save Prince Robert. When she arrives to save him, Prince Robert is not impressed with the way Elizabeth looks, never mind the fact that she just came to save him.This is a truly wonderful story.
This is quite a delightful revisionist fairy tale. Basic tropes are easily recognizable, but Muncsh subverts the gender norms of fairy tales, providing a happy ending in which the princess dances off into the sunset, rather than marrying the prince. Aided immeasurably by Michael Martchenko's wry and witty illustrations, which add a significant amount of information absent from the words.
Very good feminist fairy tale, w/out being too over the top. My four year old son really liked it, and it gave us a good reason / excuse to talk about gender roles and respect.
