https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78987.The_Prodigal_Daughter
The Prodigal Daughter focuses on the life of Florentyna Rosnovski Kane, the daughter of a Polish immigrant who lived the American dream.
The first half of this book is a retelling of events from Kane and Abel.
These two strong wills really made the first book shine, whereas the summary retelling in this book was a bit disappointing.
The latter half of the book deals with Florentyna's life in politics.
If I had read The Prodigal Daughter as a stand-alone book, my review would likely have been higher, but it seemed cheap and lazy to reuse so much material from the first book.
The best part was the main character, Florentyna, and her unwavering honesty and diligence in not only her buisness life but also her politics.
One thing I also loved was how the love story in the book did not take up a major amount of the reader's time, and rather was put in to help push the plot forward and added to the realness of the main character.
The connection to American politics throughout the whole book taught me more about the history of modern America than I could have ever learned in one of my college classes, all while intertwining it with the lives of the characters.
Ok....not that the name suggested anything different, but I was hoping  against odds  for an inspiring story...specially now that I had just graduated from  Kane & Abel  but oh dear..dear..dear....this book not only failed to provide that.....but left me highly disappointed...After all what is so awe-inspiring about the story of a girl born with a silver spoon, growing up in an immensely rich and influential family, and getting married into another equally influential family...who then predictably runs for the Presidential elections ??Correct me if I am wrong, but after  Not a penny more not a penny less  and  Kane & Abel  I think the quality has definitely taken a beating  Mr. Archer .
Loved Kane and Abel and loved this one as well. After reading some of Jeffrey Archer's book I am his fan already. He is one of the greatest story teller!I am a fan of Kane and Abel, it has taught me a lot about life and thank you Jeffrey Archer for this book, I really felt I was again in the Kane and Abel world :)
by: Jeffrey ArcherAbout:(a) A girl who grows up to be a model woman for many(b) Politics and businessFeatures:Language: Shrewd spoken EnglishInteresting note: It is said that Archer got the inspiration for (the lead protagonist) Florentyna’s political life and rise from the elections of Golda Meir, Margaret Thatcher and Indira Gandhi.Splendid Start:It had not been an easy birth but then for Abel and Zaphia nothing had been easy….‘Congratulations, Mr. Rosnovski’, said the doctor.‘Thank you,’ said Abel eagerly.‘You have a beautiful girl,’ the doctor said as he reached him.‘Thank You,’ repeated Abel, quietly trying not to show his disappointment……Unlike the others , her little fingers were curled into a tight fist.
Abel had read somewhere that a child was not expected to do that for at-least three weeks.
He smiled , proudly.for more, visit http://vintidhawanreads.wordpress.com...
I must have read this book more than 5 times!
The plot is well-written, though there were some parts that I don't like, but overall, I love this book.Florentyna was a strong woman.
When she was dealt with the biggest blow in her pampered life, she had a hard time dealing with it but just like the phoenix, she rose from the ashes.From her triumphs as a student to the White House, this is a very compelling story of a woman who, despite having it all, still suffered from the trials that came her way and how she rose from it all.A very good book!
It's been years since I've read this book, but I liked it so much that I held on to the hardback edition so the I might be able to read it again. Consider me inspired.
3.5 stars.
It was as epic a story as its prequel, Kane & Abel following Abel's daughter, Florentyna's life from her birth for decades, yet it didn't spark my interest as much as Kane & Abel did.
Especially the descriptions after she entered into the political arena and her journey to presidency felt a teeny bit long for my liking.
Indeed, there are parts that are as enchanting and enthralling as the prequel, but overall, this book kind of pales in comparison on many levels.
Entertaining read for sure, so I'll recommend this book to anyone who is interested to the afterstories of Kane and Abel.
Kane and Abel was a smash hit,so Archer had to write a sequel.The Prodigal Daughter just drags on and on,I found it pretty dull and predictable.
I think it is best for me to research just WHY this novel was even written.
There was just no room for story here.
So the author instead seemed to toss the plot out the window and use this book to display his knowledge of political inner workings and his ability to be employed as a speech writer.
I wouldn't have finished the novel at all!
She's smart yes but this isn't a rags to riches story.
Making it unrelateable.
Making it more fiction than fiction.
It's almost as if this were written by a different author.
Mr Archer's love for politics makes for an interesting window into that world and yet again, as in the case of Kane and Abel, I did not connect with the characters.
This time around I could almost sense the writer trying to undo the mistakes and fill the gaps left in Abel's life, but unfortunately Abel's daughter suffers the same dreadful lacklustre empty existance.
I guess in my opinion Mr Archer's books would never be on my list of favorite reads.
I do believe that he is a good writer and I may give any of his other books a chance...
if anyone has a good recommendation.
3.5/5 stars Like almost all Jeffrey Archer books, this one too started out very good but gradually became so slow that I found myself dosing off during the end. I liked Florentyna and how nothing seemed impossible for her and her perfectionist attitude. (view spoiler)[ The point after which I started hating this book was after Richard died. (hide spoiler)] I loved Richard. He was handsome, sweet, caring, supportive, wasn't intimidated by his wife's success and always encouraged her to follow he
3.5/5 stars Like almost all Jeffrey Archer books, this one too started out very good but gradually became so slow that I found myself dosing off during the end.
I liked Florentyna and how nothing seemed impossible for her and her perfectionist attitude.
(view spoiler)[ The point after which I started hating this book was after Richard died.
(hide spoiler)] I loved Richard.
He was handsome, sweet, caring, supportive, wasn't intimidated by his wife's success and always encouraged her to follow her dreams no matter how crazy they seemed.
With many highs and some lows, I felt so happy after finishing this book.
So this was definitely better than it prequel, perhaps, more because of the representation of an empowered woman and less because of the romantic touch in the story, contrary to what I believed before.
I realised that this book had more of an impact on me because of the idea that it was a story of a woman, not one who has been stepped over and is ready to snap at society but one who was built, from the time when she was young, to lead, to stand up for what she believed.
A woman not driven by her circumstances but by her passion and good will!
I've loved Jeffrey Archer ever since I read Kane and Abel. And this book is a sequel to it. If you loved Kane and Abel for the fierceness of the characters, for the love and die-hard hatred they have for each other, The Prodigal Daughter will go on to tell how the qualities of each of those characters were deeply ingrained in their children to reach and achieve great heights in their lives!A totally must-read for people that love fast-paced fiction :)I loved it!
3,5 SterneMein schlechtester Archer bis jetzt. Nachdem mir "Kain und Abel" wirklich sehr gefallen hat, war der zweite Teil dieser Familiensaga etwas enttäuschend. In der ersten Hälfte wurde die Geschichte aus dem ersten Band aus der Perspektive der Tochter neu erzählt. Der zweite Teil hat sich dann nur mit ihrem politischen Wahlkampf beschäftigt. Auf Dauer leider sehr einseitig und etwas langweilig. Ich hoffe, dass der letzte Teil wieder spannender wird.
I wasn't sure what to expect with the 2nd book after reading poor reviews. I had read criticism that much of the story was repeated from the first book. There were pages that retold the same story but then we were treated to the remaining years being told from Florentyna's perspective. I loved it, can't wait to read the third and final book in the series.
Awesome read, one of my favorites. It's the sequel to Jeffrey Archer's "Kane & Able", which didn't do much for me, but "The Prodigal Daughter" send shivers up my back each time I've read it. You can't say that about just any novel.
Die zweite Hälfte hingegen nimmt dann Tempo auf, wenn Florentynas Werdegang geschildert wird: die Gründung eines eigenen Modelabels, die Übernahme der väterlichen Hotelkette, der Einstieg in die Politik – immer das große Ziel vor Augen.Die belletristische Schilderung des „political business“ und die Zielstrebigkeit einer Frau, die sich in dieser Umgebung behaupten muss, wenn sie ihre Pläne verwirklichen will, fand ich durchaus interessant und unterhaltsam zu lesen.Das Original wurde 1982 erstmals veröffentlicht und bei Heyne neu verlegt.
this is the story of florentyna from 1934 - 1995 the daughter of abel she is grown up adored by her father and the first word she spoke was presidunk, having a teddy bear she called fdr she works and learns hard and is soon putting her influence to her father's hotel group, the baron group but the old rivalry between kane and abel will rear it's ugly head when she falls in love with richard, the former's son needless to say they r thrown out by their respective families and left to cope on their own.
the banking intricacies and especially the politics did rather wash over my head and were too encyclopedic for my taste just one question - the name of the preceding president was never mentioned!
I love Jeffery Archer books, but I have mixed feelings about The Prodigal Daughter.
It is worth noting that the first half covers much of the same time frame as Kane & Abel (first novel in the trilogy), but from a different perspective and with new information.
I won't go into detail so as not to spoil anything, but let's just say that it's mostly a "she did this and she did that." The Prodigal Daughter remains a must-read for those who read and enjoyed Kane & Abel.
Джефри Арчър се е размечтал тук(казано с ирония).
Дори от покрива на 2018 година ясно се вижда , че сексизма властва навред по земята.
И няма големи признаци това да се промени.
Даже във "велика" Америка.За добро или зло амбицията ,която притежава главната героиня , не е сред качествата които притежавам и харесвам.Малко ми е страховита.
Но бих подкрепила жена, тръгнала на поход към политическите върхове, ако е толкова убедителна както я е описал автора.
Струва ми се , че голяма част от жените имат по-смислени цели и по-малко его.Другото което автора не е познал , че принц Чарлс ще стане крал.
Charting the life of Florentyna Kane, Archer is well within his writing element in crafting a story that is both interest and engaging.
A standalone sequel of sorts to Kane and Abel, the feud first presented there here is largely a canvas for Florentyna’s life to play out on (rather than being the central narrative thrust of the book).
Some may prefer a greater clash between characters or wished for the story or writing to be something much sharper and acerbic, but there is a deftness in how Archer weaves power, politics, and profit (including into and amongst real events) to produce a story that I was most interested in reading.
An enjoyable vacation read. Good escapism.
And she is the president people! What a book! Trials that one faces in life and the strength with which these hurdles are crossed shows that heroism could be found in any hidden corner.Everyone has their own story to tell; everyone has their own issues in life; these are faced with unknown strength that exists within everybody. Every person is strong enough to face their problems head-on.This book made me see that strength inside of me.
It is an unadulterated pleasure to read Jeffrey Archer at his clinical best. The discipline with which Archer writes following the basic framework of a plot - exposition, rising action, climax, falling action and resolution, and the number of such sub-plots that his text contains (within an overarching wave of a plot), his craft is amazing as it is skillful. Hopefully, some day I might write just like him.
Dissapointing. If I hadn't read K&A then yes I would have enjoyed this, unfortunately it sounded like short cut copy of Book 1. The ending was hopelessly boring.
That didn't stop me reading, or awarding 4 stars.The first half however, is almost a recap of Kane and Abel (sometimes whole scenes and dialogue feel incredibly familiar), but from the perspective of Florentyna and her childhood/young adulthood to the death of her father (no spoiler here - this is from Kane and Abel!).
The moments where Florentyna stalls, as her path becomes blocked, it's only luck that seems to be on her side, and this I thought a little too convenient, especially as it happens more than once.I genuinely didn't see a very sad part coming, and as the years rolled by the deaths mounted up, though Archer wasn't very talented at showing the time passing, no real dates written into the story, but lots of exposition and description.
But through her father's success, and with the help of her governess Miss Treadgold, Florentina is able to gain the skills she needs and will use to hopefully acheive her goal.
Florentina had to go out on her own at one point with no help from her father financially, and she proved herself using her talents and skills she had learned, and was very successful.This was also an interesting look into politics.
A little slow perhaps, but one gains an appreciation for the characters and there is good flow to the story.
Jeffery Archer is a author who never fail to deliver such narrtives and The Prodigal Daughter is nothing short of it.
After treating us with financial narrative in Kane and Abel, the second installment comes with a political narrative.
It was my best choice to read the second book of the series a long time after the first book because the first half of The Prodigal Daughter is dedicated to revisiting the past in the perspective of Florentyna, daughter of Abel.
And the second half goes through her financial and political carrier with the untimely twists and climaxes which keep you going.
Richard never managed to complete Harvard, yet with the passing gene of his father he inherited, he worked his way to the top in another well known bank.The PAST ended with the deaths of the 2 honorable fathers, Richard Kane and Abel Ronovski.THE PRESENT 1968-1982.Florentyna was all of a sudden left with her father's successful hotel chain- The Baron Group.
In the very end, it was Florentyna's talk with Jake Thomas that fully convinced him to surrender and stepped down from his role, leaving Richard to the President of Lester's.The PRESENT also talks about Florentyna's challengers as the president of The BARON group, and her partner with Gianni di Ferranti to making the most successful clothing line of all time- The Florentyna's but more excitingly, her journey in politics.
