https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6164054-the-money-illusion
This quick read was written by Irving Fisher in the 1920's prior to the Crash.Intended to inform the public about the danger of thinking that a dollar is something fixed, this book describes inflation and deflation in a clear, understandable way.
Ignorance of how money works, of how loans are made and paid off, puts any citizen at a real disadvantage, ready to be victimized by those who know exactly what happens with inflation and deflation and invest accordingly.At the time Fisher wrote, the Federal Reserve was newborn and there were high hopes for it to regulate inflation and prevent cyclical booms and busts.
good: shows that sometimes having more money is an illusion as the prices of goods rise even higher.bad: provides the grounds for the theories of stabilizing the price level, which are most to blame for our current situation world-wide
Irving Fisher, atormentado pela indiferença dos seus contemporâneos, escreveu este manifesto científico sobre a Moeda e sua natureza. Os cidadãos, as empresas e os próprios Estado gerem o presente e preparam o futuro com base numa mercadoria, a que chamam Moeda, que tanto pode ser areia como pode ser ouro, dependendo de caprichos cíclicos aparentemente insondáveis. Noventa anos depois, uma obra que se mantém atual no mundo dos Bancos Centrais e suas impressoras.
This started out so basic that I considered quitting. He gets more technical as the text progresses. I think this would be most interesting for people interested in the history of monetary theory. So, I enjoyed it, but I can't think of anyone off the top of my head to whom I would recommend it.
Only thing, in my opinion, that could be applied for today’s time, is that people still don’t understand the thing that Irving had written in his book, and that is Inflation and Deflation of the money.Like I’ve mention in previous section, this book is all about Inflation and Deflation of the money, backing up value of the money with gold, and other general ideas that Irving presented how to keep economy going forward.I like to read articles and book that are related to History of economics, because there’s a lot that can be learned from past, that can be used in present time and future.
Very revealing book...although some on of the discussions regarding the gold bullion and the gold standard seem to be outdated, it remains a problem for readers to find out how the monetary system has evolved in the last ~100 years. Now most of the countries have adopted a fiat currency. I really need to fill the gap (through some economic history books) between the transformation from Fisher's era to our current era.
Entiendo que es uno de los primeros en hablar de Ilusión Monetaria. Comentado en  Animal Spirits
A landmark book for any economist.
Must have been an impactful book when it was released. Some of the lessons do not seem relevant anymore, but has a good basic analysis of inflation and deflation. Recommended for everyone that proposes a return to a gold standard.

He explains clearly the effects of deflation and inflation on currencies and emphasizes the importance of government and their monetary authorities in acting to stabilize their effects through responsible governance of the currency.
During the discussion on the gold standard Fisher while not rejecting it does illustrate that it will not provide stability and actually will become a limit as the economy outgrows the physical quantities available on the planet.
The work clearly is the culmination of his early career as a neoclassical economist and lays the foundation for both Monetarism and his future work on debt deflation theory.
Irving Fisher may be better remembered for some highly mistaken predictions of good times just before the market crash in 1929.
Yet his was a life that well demonstrated the economist's caution: If you make predictions, be certain they outlive you.
Irving Fisher despite all the derision he suffered was a shrewd analyst of how money disguises how money as a denominator of value conceals the important reality of economic life.Not great reading as lectures seldom are.
This small pamphlet-like book, a series of lectures first given in Germany in 1927, contains cautionary insights into today's problems with the money supply.
An old classic with the most simplest of explanation into the very complex matters of: inflation, deflation, falling store of value as it pertains to money. It might be old but very, very useful.
if you need to know the real meaning of inflation read this book
