https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65482.Love_Finds_a_Home
I think my favorite couple in this whole series was Belinda and Drew.
I'm not quite sure.I believe I laughed and cried a little bit.I can't believe I am finished with the series.
That was a bit disappointing.Belinda and Drew – I am so glad they're together.
I hope that they are greatly blessed with children and joy, and I wish I was able to follow along and see it.One reason why I enjoyed the series so much is because of the faith.
This eight-volume Christian historical fiction series ends on a high note; I've enjoyed reading these books, and look forward to more books from this author, even if they don't feature the same characters.
End of a wonderful journey, a bit disappointed with this last book, though!
I did a series review on my blog: http://myfavoritepastime.blogspot.com...
Belinda was the youngest and a nurse now living in Boston with Mrs. Virginia Stafford-Smythe.
Belinda knew that wasn't what Mrs. Smythe had in mind and rejected his suggestion.Belinda received a visit from the church parson and she asked him if he might recommend an attorney to help her find something useful to do with the house.
Belinda had been told by her parents that Drew's father back home had died.
Belinda talked with Drew about asking his mother to come work at her home for the elderly and bring his brother so that he could attend university in Boston.
xD (view spoiler)[OH MY GOODNESS!!!!
I think Aunt Virgie dying was sad and a little too sudden - and then a lot of time passed within a few pages.
I just think that overall it was a little too rushed.
But as soon as Drew came back onto the scene I knew immediately that him and Belinda were going to get married.
I was disappointed in the last book when Drew was nowhere to be found, because HE IS JUST SO CUTE OK.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, it was a wonderful ending to a wonderful series.
but He still wasn't finished with me, and in time, brought me back to a wonderful, and happy, life and family.
I love this series, the author's faithfulness to what might have been possible in those days, and the stedfastness of the Davis family.
and once again I come to the end of this wonderful series, and once again agree that they are some of the best books I've ever read.
Maybe not the greatest literature, but certainly stories that are easy to follow and fun to ponder, and lessons for a happy life that are a great blessing.
I really enjoyed reading this series and I have some more Oke books that I may be tempted into reading but some are missing so I will be buying to supplement what I don't already have.
Anyways on the worth of this book I have to say I loved it and I am not even particularly religious and I have never enjoyed westerns or prairie books before.
This was outside my comfort zone and honestly I am quite glad that I ran out of fantasy novels so that I was forced to read this.
I thought this book was so beautiful because it shows how everything happens for a reason. The book was well written in my opinion, just because, by how easy it was to follow along if you get a book in the series that happens to be the very last book! The romance and the story was so wonderful, I may have to find the rest of the books and read them! Janette Oke did an amazing job! Two thumbs up!!!
I read this book to my wife, reading is one of the very few things that we can do together these days. She liked this book very much. The book is the last of the "Love Comes Softly" series and a continuation of "Love Takes Wing". This book finds Belinda still in Boston and takes up her life from there. The ending seemed to be a bit rushed to me, but what do I know. It ended well for Belinda, as expected, so the wife was pleased.
I Loved this book. I loved that at the end of the book Belinda and Drew did get married. I kind of wished they got married sooner in the series but I think its almost better this way. I cant wait to read A Prairie Legacy series!!!!!!! Im so excited!!!!!!!!!!!
Wasn't sure about Belinda's side of the story as I missed Marty and Clark. It was a great ending to a great series though. Always wondered why this one was such a classic, now I know why! Very good book!
I loved the end of this series. These books were far better than the movies as expected. So glad I finally had the chance to read them. Great characters, wonderful love stories. Very enjoyable reading. :).
The hardest for me to read yet.........but was most definitely worth it by the end of the book (although not completely the end of the series). Re-read if wishing to continue the series or finishing up the original line up of books.
The story of Belinda and Drew is probably the love story that I love the most in the Love Comes Softly Series.
Cassettes.
Janette Oke did well in the finishing of her series! A satisfying end.
Great historical fiction romance. Very believable, Christian read.
I have enjoyed every minute of the entire series!
This book was pretty good.
Excellent!Even though the west was only a portion of the book it was such a good read. I love how everything came alive and worked out perfect
I remember being incredibly connected with this story. Very moving and uplifting and I would recommend the series.
Nice easy read. Christian content that does get a bit boring after a while, but loved the story and characters. Nice to read a happy, uplifting book series.
Another wonderful story.
number 8--This one is better because it has closure. Good ending.
What a wonderful ending to a great series!
I really enjoyed this series. I'm a little sad that this was the last one. Such a wholesome series. Much better than the movies, IMO.
I'm sorry to have finished the series; I hate leaving beloved characters behind.
Sweet ending to a sweet series
