https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163363.All_But_My_Life
I should probably start out by saying that I'm not totally obsessed with WWII, Holocaust, concentration camps, terror, misery and death (here it comes...) BUT, I think I enjoy these stories because in each one, there is a story of HOPE, perseverance, and a remarkable accounts of humanity and triumph.
No matter how bad my life seems to be, I can more easily remember that I really and truly have it SO very good."All But My Life" is a beautifully written memoir of Gerda Weissmann's experiences through this horrific time.
I am truly amazed that Gerda is a survivor.
This book was written by my dear friend's grandmother.
I have been lucky enough to know her, learn from her and be loved by her.
What an amazing blessing that have been able to get a first hand account of a Holocaust experience that I will be able to one day share with my children.
It is likely that by the time my children are old enough to understand and appreciate this story, there will no longer be any survivors alive.
"Grandma Gerds" as I call her is an incredible woman that I am honored to know.
The artistry and vitality and heart with which Gerda Weissmann Klein brings to life her experiences as a young Polish Jewish girl during the Holocaust is nothing short of extraordinary.
And perhaps its greatest triumph is that it brings back to life and celebrates the humanity of every individual who was close to Gerda, especially her mother and father, her older brother and her closest companion in the camps, a girl called Ilse.
It’s perhaps odd to speak of the artistry of a book about the Holocaust but even the most gripping and moving story has to be told well to get itself across in all its power and significance.
I listened to this account on audio and while I can highly recommend the book I cant recommend the audible as the quality was poor and quite muffled, I had to adjust the volume on numerous occasions.
It almost felt like I was listening to an old black and while movie with poor sound and the narrator sounded bored reading the book.
However I cannot fault the memoir as it is moving and insightful, Greda's story is heartbreaking and yet uplifting, this is a book that will stray with me for a long time.I particularly loved the the epilogue and how her American life turned out.
There are not enough to even come close to the tragedy, the horror, and the depraved behavior that Gerta Weissmann suffered at the hand of the Nazis.
She lost everything, family, friends, and came close to losing her life on many occasions.
Starting at the age of eighteen, Gerda who had led a life filled with family love, would often think of her family and those thoughts seemed to keep her going with the hope that one day she would reunite with her parents and her beloved brother.
What she faced along with her friends and camp mates was what she tells us in this novel.
Lest we forget.I've read only three memoirs from the Holocaust: Anne Frank's, Wladyslaw Szpilman's, and now Gerda Weissman Klein's.
Here's what sets Gerda's story apart: first, she's an excellent story-teller and writer, so her tale flows like fiction, though, unfortunately, it is not.
When this particular story ended, I found myself hungry to know more, more, and more about Gerda.
There he stood in his good gray suit, his only one, his shoulders sloping, his hair steel gray in the sun, on his breast the yellow star and black word.There he stood, already beyond my reach, my father, the center of my life, just labeled JEW.(87)When I got into the shower and felt the warm water on my skin, I started to shiver.
Being a young girl myself, I think the story affected me in a way that it could not have if I had read at an older age.
The copy I read was my mother's from when she was a girl.
I lost this wonderful book (I could barely keep track of my own head in middle school) and cried bitterly.
She spoke with a kind voice and I remember being so shocked to be in the presence of someone who had seen such horrible things.
This is my all time favorite book because what it did for meduring a very difficult time in my life.
I was struggling with a horrible case of postpartum depression and, somehow, I came across this book that changed my life.
It reminded me to be grateful for a crying baby, food in the refrigerator, a house to clean, a husband to kiss.
Most of all I loved the way it ends!!
Love can triumph and mostly does if given the chance.
Again she reminded us all to not take anything for granted and go ahead and enjoy "a boring evening at home".
Gerda Weissmann Klein writes of her holocaust experiences.
Her recuperation, marriage to Kurt Klein in 1946 and finally, in the epilog, her engagement after the war in Jewish community work and holocaust awareness programs is briefly spoken of.It is the lack of melodrama and the clear and concise telling that gives the book its strength.
Gerda Weissmann Klein speaks of her emotions but does not exalt in them.
She reads the book slowly; giving the events the gravity they merit.
This a memoir brings home best.
All But My Life is Gerda Weissmann's story of her experiences as a Jew during the Holocaust.
Again and again I was struck with Gerda's strength and hope (something often pointed out by the people around her, even if she does not always recognize it in herself), so much so that I could understand why she never really succumbed to the belief that she would perish as so many others had.
It is only natural for us to think that the people who survived the Holocaust were the strongest, the fittest, the most intelligent.
She tells of her camps siters Illse , Liesl and Suse none of whom survived-the last dying only moments after being liberated by American forces.The author held on to life through memories of her family and the vow she made to her father to never give up on her life.The author ends the memoir with a summary of her life in America after the war , writing this epilogue 37 years after the first edition of all But My Life was published.
I love that this starts out with her happy family, her brothers, her neighbors, her friends, such a simple life full of hope.
Than they are confronted with the Nazi invasion and things began to change for them very quickly, yet they still held on to little things that provided them with hope.
A letter from a family member, deportations that had been postponed, a brother who has manged to escape, a neighbor who brings them food, all of these provide hope.
Wonderfully poignant book, in the afterward she explains what has happened to her life after the war and why she has felt compelled to write this, her memoir.
I picked it up again, though, and the "happy" ending was a reprieve.("Happy" being fairly trite, considering 6 million Jews tortured and killed.) How does this type of horror happen?
Who could kill a child?
Forget?
We could forget, but this book is proof that there are survivors who never will, and generations that will never exist.
As heart-wrenching as it is, I somehow feel indebted to read these difficult things and even weep for those who suffered and still are.
I feel more human and life seems more precious.
Ilse, a childhood friend of mine, once found a raspberry in the concentration camp and carried it in her pocket all day to present to me that night on a leaf.
Imagine a world in which your entire possession is one raspberry and you give it to your friend." Gerda Weissman grew up in Poland.
She has a loving, close family.
We see the disintegration of normal life as her family is torn apart.Gerda is deported and sent to various work camps and concentration camps.
In the midst of Nazi cruelty and brutal working conditions she forms close friendships.
Audiobook #251
I appreciated how this memoir started with German occupation rather than in the work/concentration camps.
The author keeps a rather calm tone throughout, which made it even more chilling for me when coming across facts like (at the end of the war), "I was weighed---sixty-eight pounds."One thing I found most interesting about this story was that Gerda's teenage personality comes through really well.
She doesn't sugar-coat the fact that she often snubbed her mother even up to their last hours together (though I was surprised she never mentions attempting to write her) nor the fact that Gerda was often fickle in her friendships.
The ending was amazing, and Kurt...*sighs happily* Love this book so much, although it was painful and emotional for me to read.
It opened my eyes to how much I complain, and that I take the little things in life (and freedom) so much for granted.In the epilogue Gerda wrote this:"I wanted to reach out to young people, make them aware of the preciousness of life, and show them that it was not to be thrown away thoughtlessly, even under conditions of extreme hardship.
This book has nearly 11,000 ratings and nearly 800 reviews and the rating averages 4.3 out of 5. Need I say more?Gerda Weissmann Klein should be read by anyone interested in what the holocaust did to the Jews, especially the young that were able to live through death camps and the death march AND to be able to write about it. Today Gerda is still alive at 92. I will loan this book out to friends, but it will have a permanent spot on my bookshelf.
It inspired me in many ways.
I hope i never look the other way when someone is suffering.
We are truly blessed with the comforts of life right down to running hot water for bathing and being able to floss our teeth!
Whenever I think my life is hard, or I feel overwhelmed, or even discouraged, I just remember the Holocaust.
This book made me appreciate life more, and strengthened me to never look the other way at someones suffering.
I marvel at how some people survive great tragedies.
I am in awe at how some people strengthen and help others at all cost-even their own life and their families life!
Gerda Weissman Klein was a Polish Jew along with her family who encountered many hardship from the German Nazis.
When they first invaded, the Jews got threatened by German Nazi who invaded Poland on Spetember 1, 1939.
Even though so many hardship was forced on the Jews, Gerda stated "to you, life still means beauty, and that is how it should be" (115).
Even though many people got killed, there is no excuse to just give up on up beucase life is suspose to be worth cherishing.
Many Jewish people survived beucase they never gave up.
This book, a memoir by Gerda Weissmann Klein was written in 1957 with an epilogue written at the end in 1995.
Her family, father, mother, and brother were forced to live in their own basement.
A few years later the family is separated and Gerda is taken to a camp where she is forced into slave labor working on a weaving machine.
Gerda and her girl friends are forced on a Winter March from Poland where she witnesses tragedies, starvation and winter weather.
this is her memoir of those six years and what she and others endured.
On countless occasions Ilse picked Gerda up and gave her hope when she had none and wanted to give up.Abek was also another help although a pain at times too.
He was a good friend who tried to keep Gerda's hope alive while in camp.
Gerda recieves letters from her friend Erika telling of a family that is trampled in the streets by Nazi Horses and many other horrific stories of what the Nazis are doing outside of her camp.Erika's love fror her fiancee' helps Gerda explore her possible feelings for Abek.
The story for Gerda continues to get worse as she marches on "Death Marches"where she loses Ilse to the cold and the weariness of her body.
She remembered being in a play in school where "each character uttered a prayer: the mightly Pharaoh prayed for a victory, his opponent asked for his own success, a sick man begged for health, the doctor asked for people to be ill, and each prayer, clean and swift, like a white bird, shot upward.
They turned against each other in bloody battle, and usually both fell back lifeless to the earth." The author was a poor little boy in the play that didn't know how to pray.
Because we did not really think that human beings were capable of committing such crimes."And in her "life after the war" section, Gerda shares how she went about helping others by sharing her story.
I wanted to reach out to young people, make them aware of the preciousness of life, and show them that it was not to be thrown away thoughtlessly, even under conditions of extreme hardship.
I always wanted to impress upon them how wrong it is to seek a permanent solution to a temporary problem."Like I said, the strength of this individual is unreal.
Even though it is hard to read about this inhumane time, there are so many life lessons to be learned.
I was sitting at the reception table greeting guests for an event hosted by Chapman University.
Gerda Weissmann Klein was the special guest.
Looking into her eyes, I saw a peace and strength that took my breath away.
She recognized my reaction and she smiled.
Reading her book adds another dimension to what we heard that night.
I saw a Holocaust survivor.
In the book, you see the young girl, the teenager dealing with unspeakable horror, pain and loss.
She gives the same smile.
She suffered a similar horror in the Rwandan Holocaust almost 50 years later.
If only I could be certain that someday my children would be standing on my grave."I have read at least 10 Holocaust memoirs and although all of them tell very similar stories (idyllic pre-war life, initial occupation, hope and belief that the war will end soon, initial forced emigration, hardships of camp, summary executions, horrors of forced marches through snow, etc) I keep reading them because they are all special.
I can't say too much without spoiling, but I will say that I shed a few man-tears as her post-war drama unfolded.This was a gripping book that I would recommend to anyone who is interested in reading about such things.
And it had such a sweet romance at the end!
I actually think the best part was at the end and her descriptions of the liberation--I was on an airplane and I couldn't stop myself from crying.
Here are a few of my favorite quotes:During a horrible march where everyone was starving: "Later, as the wagon rolled through the little town, a window opened above us and a piece of bread fell right into my lap.
Then I divided the bread carefully among the girls."After the American soldiers liberated the girls: "Other soldiers carried girls in their arms like babies, speaking to them soothingly in words the girls did not understand.
I have read a few Holocaust memoirs (not a ton) and this is one of the best so far.
What I liked was the way the author portrayed herself.
She conveyed a sense of a strong personality, sensitive to others but not backing away from her values or her reality.
It's a horrible story, of course; she spends her late adolescence in a series of work camps and ultimately survives a gruelling "death march." She loses her home, her parents, her brother, all her possessions (except for a pair of ski boots and a few family photos), and most of her friends.
All but her life.
Much of the book focuses on her messed-up love life.
I'm happy to have read this book at last.
All But My Life:A Memoir By Gerda Weissmann Klein This story really moved me.
The author as a teenage was sent to the labor camps during WWII.
She always had a happy spirit with encouraged the young girls around her.
She made up skits,stories and plays for a diversion.
She endured loss of family and all the girls she knew where she was in the labor camps.
She fell in love with the American soldier that helped rescure her and other when liberation came.
She came to America with her soldier husband, raised a family and helped other Jews.
I have to start this review by saying, I saw Mrs. Klein's documentary “ One Survivor Remembers” several years ago.
I watched it many times.
The documentary was very good....
but the book was INCREDIBLE!!!!!It was the most moving and emotional book dealing with the Holocaust that I ever read..
I cried from beginning to end, because I knew the basics of her story.
I strongly recommend this book for those interested in learning what actually went on during the Holocaust.
Thank you to the author (and her husband) for showing me what courage, nobility, compassion, determination, strength, and love look like.
