https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/651260.Domes_of_Fire
I originally read the Belgariad and Mallorean series, which were massive sellers in the 80's, as a teenager and enjoyed them but never as much a some of the other fantasy series I read at the same time.
While I don't think I'll ever read the Belgariad and Mallorean again I have decided to re-read (or rather listen) the Elenium and this series again.While the story could be critisised as being simply more of the same from the Elenium, we are transported this time to the continent of the Tamuli.
Originally posted on Once Upon a Bookcase. WARNING: This is a follow up trilogy to David Eddings' The Elenium. The events in these books take place several years after those in The Elenium, with the same characters. Therefore, this series - and so also my review - discusses things revealed in the previous trilogy. Read no further if you plan on reading The Elenium but don't wish it to be spoiled for you.Domes of Fire begins six years after the end of The Sapphire Rose. Queen Ehlana is back on he
Having heard of Sparhawk's proess and achievement against Azash, Oscagne has come to plead that he journey to Tamuli and help save the Empire.Domes of Fire is the first book in a second trilogy following Sparhawk and his friends.
Now aware that the books about Sparhawk are more political intrigue and strategy based, I enjoyed Domes of Fire much more than I did The Sapphire Rose, simply because I wasn't expecting more.There are various different peoples occupying the countries that make up the Empire, with their own culture and beliefs.
Yes, I'm finally, after all these years, reading the Tamuli Trilogy for the first time. Standard Eddings - hero and his group of wise-cracking badasses-with-hearts-of-gold (including the white-haired old wizard now joining the black-haired beautiful and ageless sorceress) go traipsing across every country named on the map in a quest to defeat the machinations of the power-hungry ancient god. I think Mr Eddings forgot the magic stone, though - so the party is going to go get it in the second book. Amusing retreat to childhood. 2/5
The length of time this novel has taken me to read says something about how heavy-going I was finding it. I liked the original Sparhawk trilogy, but this one was rough. Reading it with more open adult eyes brings the racism and sexism into glaring focus, while some of the scenes were virtually unreadable, such as where Sephrenia bullies a Styric and afterwards glories in it. It was way too smug and self-satisfied for its own good.
The Belgariad series was totally awesome!
Domes of Fire is the first book of the sequel to the Elenium series.
I was disappointed in this book.
It was an extremely slow read.
Their journey was very slow pace.
The good parts are very small portions and spread thin throughout the book.
The book can be summed up by a quote that Sir Bevier states near the end.
When I read Brevier's quote I was a little annoyed that this 484 page book could be so easily summed up in a few really quick sentences.
It sets up the plot it is just slow.
I was glad to get all of the books in this series as a Christmas present, because I at the moment I finished one book I had to start the next one. And I recommend to all of you who still havent read these: buy them all before starting to read, or you will regret it the moment you finish one book and realize you dont have the next one yet.These books can make anyone fall in love with fantasy.
I was glad to get all of the books in this series as a Christmas present, because I at the moment I finished one book I had to start the next one. And I recommend to all of you who still haven´t read these: buy them all before starting to read, or you will regret it the moment you finish one book and realize you don´t have the next one yet.These books can make anyone fall in love with fantasy.
After reading and enjoying the Elenium trilogy earlier this year I was interested in picking up the follow up trilogy. I thought the beginning of this book was quite intriguing and had me reading at a steady pace but once the adventure got under way things slowed down a bit for me. I think it was just because there was a lot of sitting around and talking which is never something I particularly love reading about. I did enjoy this book and I'm looking forward to picking up book 2 soon.
While magnificent overall, it probably can't go as a stand-alone. Definitely assumes knowledge of the previous trilogy's characters. Nonetheless, it begins to fill in the back story of some of the mythos in the Elenium.
(A) Cestovatel Sparhawk se opět vydává na cestu necestu tam a zpátky, tentokrát na kontinent Tamulský.
Samozřejmě s celou svojí družinou.
I manželkou.
Ehlana si politicky pošušňá s kdejakým papalášem, zlodeji politikaří, učí mulaty intriky a spol.
Něco se děje a je potřeba to rozkrýt.
V císařství se chystá něco velkého a císař vykuk, vykukuje ze stavu :já jsem jenom loutka: do stavu :převezmu otěže:..
no a to je dějová linka Ehlany a zlodejů.Sparhawk se samozřejmě toulá, cestou necestou vyzvedává Bhaliom, učí se s ním malovat...teda čarovat.
Dcera/bohyně mu v tom pomáhá, jako i zástup známých rytířů a pomocníků.Taková oddechovka na dlouhé cesty autem.(4 stíny za hranicí zraku z 5)
David Eddings' books are comfort reading for me: I loved them as a teenager and I have been enjoying re-reading them now.
Possibly due to his wife's uncredited co-authorship, the female characters are realistic and, while all of his characters are archetypes (and repeated ones at that: the characters of the Elenium/Tamuli echo the characters of the Belgariad, and the plots of each series tend to echo each other as well), the dialogue is fun and snappy, a readable mashup of medieval/modern.
Eddings is occasionally a little too pleased with his own cleverness (why yes, I have read The Cherry Orchard, thanks) but it's a fun read nonetheless.
Namun begitu,novel ini masih lagi boleh dibaca secara 'stand alone' kerana penulis juga ada menyelitkan serba sedikit latar belakang yang berlaku di dalam The Elenes secara ringkas di dalam bahagian prolog.Apa yang membuatkan novel tulisan David Eddings ini begitu menarik adalah kerana latar belakang dan jalan ceritanya yang menarik sekali.
Unsur jenaka juga diselitkan di dalam penceritaan yang menjadi antara rencah utama yang membuatkan novel ini menarik untuk dibaca.Dari segi kelemahan novel ini pula,walaupun dialognya menarik dan baik,kadang-kala agak membosankan.
Mungkin akan ada lebih banyak babak pertempuran di dalam buku-buku yang seterusnya.Secara keseluruhannya,novel ini amat menarik sekali untuk dibaca.
In the process of assisting Emperor Sarabian with his corrupt government, they find out that there is more trouble at foot than just the government, but some other evil is out there trying to take over the world.RecommendationI recommend this book to higher level readers because you have to be able to understand the older language that is used in this book in order to understand what is going on.
I also recommend this book to readers who like the stories of knights and monsters because this has all of that involved.
But waiting for him was a glittering court seething with corruption, treachery--and the greatest danger Sparhawk would ever face!### From Publishers WeeklyMagic, insurrection, rebirth and new gods and cultures propel this first volume of a proposed second trilogy featuring Sir Sparhawk, Queen Ehlana and other stalwarts of Eddings's best-selling Elenium trilogy.
The distant Tamul Empire, endangered by civil unrest exacerbated by paranormal (or magical, depending on the point of view) incidents, begs help from Sparhawk, destroyer of the Elder God Azash and savior of the Elenes.
### From Library JournalHard on the heels of the Elenium trilogy, Eddings launches a new fantasy epic featuring the futher adventures of Pandion knight Sparhawk and his companions.
Domes of Fire suffers from many of the same problems as its predecessor, The Eleniums's Diamond Throne, namely that the whole thing feels like a big setup for something bigger.
Unlike the Diamond Throne however, driven by the desperate need to find a cure for Queen Ehlana within a year, the plot feel mostly arbitrary.
First of all they need an excuse to get all the best characters from the last trilogy together again, then an excuse to send them to the bit of the world we didn't get to see last time and then a new big bad, seeing as they'd killed most of them off.
This is actually my second time reading through this series.
I read through it the first time when I was in junior high or high school.
I love the characterizations and the twists and turns in the plot.Having read the other fantasy series by this author, I'm noticing things...
Like Stragen is very much this book's "Silk".
He looks nothing like the other character, but he acts very much the same.
However, it's very much a series that I could read again.
It's not quite the "let's poke at all the tropes in Fantasy" that the other series is.
Thus, my memory is a bit unreliable as I try to seperate what happened in this book from what happened in the last three.
There's no denying the fact that I love reading Eddings' stuff now that I've gotten a taste of it.
It's fraught with entertainment, wit, great characters, one liners, action, sideline love stories, and generally great story telling .
I've read that some people have accused his books of not having any plot to them, but I find that I must disagree.
The down side of rereading books a lot is that eventually you start to give the book less stars than in the past.
I still like the book but traveling to a new location doesn't make the story 'fresh'.
No head of state can be gone from the country for a year.
As I say that, I suddenly remember that I believe some heads of state might have done just that in the Medieval period in Europe.
It is still a good book but I found myself scanning parts to get to the better parts.
So I dropped it by one star.
Its been years since I read this series, but I figured it was time to revisit these Eddings books.
As always, Eddings is a master at creating societies and culture, but reading this as an adult, I feel that it is definitely written for young adults.
This doesn't make it less fun to read, but don't expect any revelations here.
What I often remember from these books is that the author is great building characters that you love.
They are the best at what they do and when they are all working together, they create a synergy that is really fun to watch.
But it's a fun read.
Compared with what I've read in the recent past, this is a great piece of fantasy.
Since I read quite a lot of YA-fantasy lately, I was getting quite sick of it, especially the love triangles.Domes of Fire has mature main characters, not too much of romance but is humorous.
I also quite liked Eddings' writing style and the narrator's style of reading the book.It might have been preferable to start with the series that precedes this, but although I didn't do that, I could follow the story perfectly well (but I think I might have enjoyed it even more, had I known more about the references to the first series given here).
I'll probably read the first series one day and I'll certainly continue this.
I'm really not sure how I want to rate this book.
It feel short on so many things for me.
It was slow, character names and relationships were explained so fast I had no idea who anyone truly was.
For an adventure book it was decent, I enjoyed the politics & the relationships between the different races.
The action and combat scenes were very inviting.
I do want to continue the Tamuli adventure simply to see what happens, however I just don't see myself doing that.
There are many other series I know are quicker and I would enjoy more.
Plot-wise, it seems the Tamuli series is not as strong as the Elenium (much like I didn't think the Malloreon was as strong as the Belgariad).
Character-wise, however, I really liked all the new developments our favourite characters went through, the ways in which some of them grew up and others merely changed, and the way the relationships between them developed.
In all reality, I don't mind so much that the story isn't as solid because I just like reading about everyone again and seeing what happened to them some years into the future.

This review applies to the whole of the Tamuli trilogy. It follows on directly from the intial Elenium and should be called Sparhawk Rides Again. Don't get me wrong I like the trilogy - it extends the characters we have already met, who are likeable enough to care about, and answers some of the questions that the Elenium raised. The trilogy introduces other characters, most of whom are well rounded and believable. The dialogue remains crisp and humorous and the plot rips along towards a surprising end.
Read all three of this series one after the other. Love David Eddings but a long time since I read him... Managed to get the series in a really quaint second hand book shop on my way home from my mother-in-laws'. I have read other series by him and so was pleased to see that this was just as complex and good, though one does tend to feel that innovation was rather slow to happen in these worlds and that medieval life was rather more dirty and smelly and uncomfortable than it is made out to be in these books.
I have reread this series and intend to do so every decade for the rest of my life along withRaymond E Feist's Riftwar and EmpireDavid Eddings' Belgariad, Mallorean, Elenium and TamuliPatricia Briggs' Hurog, Raven, Mercy Thompson and Alpha and OmegaJoel Rosenberg's Keepers of the Hidden Ways (unknown classic)Dave Duncan's A Man of His Word (unknown classic)Robin Hobb's Farseer and Tawny ManS M Stirling's Dies the FireTad William's Memory, Sorrow and ThornIlona Andrews' Kate DanielsKevin Hearne's Iron DruidJoe Abercrombie's the Heroes bookDavid Gemmell's Drenai
Book One of the Tamuli. Reunites Sparhawk and his friends to once again save the world from obliteration. About six years after the Elenium.Ancient heroes have been rising from the grave--and bringing ancient armies with them. When a representative of the far-off Tamil empire comes to Sparhawk for help, they all go to the aide of the emperor. Krager is involved with the leader again--a god named Cyrgon whose people are supposed to be extinct. The only thing that can stop him is Bhellion--but no one knows where it is.Very fast moving and typically witty and sharp.
I salvaged this book from my mother's donation pile to the library and found that in re-reading it again I loved it just as much as I did when I was in high school. I'm a totally fantasy dork so this has all the elements that I love - knights, magic, a little bit of war and drama. There's nothing earth shattering about the writing, the plot, the characters but for me it just hits the spot. Definitely keeping these and re-reading them.
AWESOME!I seriously loved this. Might even say I like it better than the Elenium. the whole character of Ehlana sort of confused me a bit in the Elenium, she was so very determined sometimes and then suddenly all gushy and emotional and sending loveletters.. She still has a lot of sides to her, but it sort of made more sense this time. Or maybe I'm just getting used to it, I don't know. anyway, AWESOME
O I am such a sucker for a quest and adventure!! Again, with this first book of a sequelling trilogy, we have a mysterious threat to a kingdom, the knight in shining armour heads out on a quest to discover more about this threat and to destroy it. Within it, we have the usually moments of wit and humour that Eddings so often injects into his writing. I would possibly say that this is perhaps not as good a first book as the Diamond Throne, but it is still gripping nonetheless.
Sparhawk and company are back again in another exciting adventure with new characters, and this time in a completely different part of the world. Worth the read, if only to see how the lives of the main characters have changed and how they've grown, as well as the enjoyment of a trademark Eddings trek. Danae is particularly endearing.
