https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91440.Love_Medicine
A member of the Chippewa and Obijwe tribes, Louise Erdrich has been a leading voice in Native American literature for over thirty years.
Following the intricate web woven by the Kapshaw and Nanapush families over the course of fifty years, Erdrich creates real characters that tug on the heartstrings of human emotions.
Written in vignette form, Erdrich gives a voice to many characters in three generations of Nanapush/Lamartine and Kapshaw members of the Chippewa tribe.
Since the first publication of Love Medicine, Louise Erdrich has gone to write many novels, all focusing on Native American issues.
Because reading this book is living, in sweetness and beauty and love, even when it tells terrible things.It's life and there are as may ways of looking at it as there are minds to see, but in so far as these folks have been and still are fighting for survival, not just of the individual bodies but ways of being alive together and the deathlessness of stories.
You can jump in anywhere anytime and feel the voices of Erdrich's people, feel their loves and ties.Erdrich and her characters deal with racism and colonisation with a wry attitude.
The youngest boy, crushed in a high chair, watched eagerly while things placed themselves around him.
And the reader does more than observe—she sees, hears, thinks, feels, loves, and suffers as Erdrich’s characters do, through fifty years and the countless episodes of heartbreak, laughter, rage, and grace.Love Medicine opens in 1981 with the death of beautiful but broken June Kashpaw.
Love Medicine is the first in Erdrich’s symphony of novels featuring characters from the fictional town of Argus, North Dakota, set in and around the reservation.
Erdrich's first and still best-known work (because it's the one most often taught) has become something of a model for the contemporary short-story cycle, with interconnected stories devoted to a variety of interrelated characters spanning three (almost four) generations.
The strength here is less in story (which centers on a love triangle and its effect on family ties) or character (vivid as they may be, they're still devoted women and unreliable men) than in style.
The direction of those energies make it less satisfying if read as a novel; if read as a story cycle, however, it's an invigorating read that makes you want to write yourself.
As she says in this "newly revised" edition: "Since writing Love Medicine, I have understood that I am writing one long book in which the main chapters are also books titled Tracks, Four Souls, The Bingo Palace, The Last Report on the Miracles at Little No Horse and The Painted Drum."One of the things I love most about the Erdrich I've read / am reading (in ass-backward order), is the fluidity of the form; how it's almost secondary to the stories she's telling and characters she's creating.
I am now planning on reading everything by Erdrich I can - luckily for me she has written quite a bit over the years, so I can take my time and maybe not even run out of material.Love Medicine was her first novel, published in the mid-80s.
But you will find with Erdrich (at least with the whopping two experiences I now have with her) that her stories already are sort of a patchwork quilt to begin with, so adding material over time would not complicate anything.
It is difficult (especially in Love Medicine) to keep track of who is related to whom and the lines of history which cross and crisscross throughout the book.
In this book you will read about grindingly cruel experiences, the drudgery of daily life, alcoholism and suffering, in-fighting and rivalry that lasts generations.
Erdrich tells us about her characters in small stories, each centred around a different character.
Erdrich tells us about her characters by telling the story of key points in their everyday lives - cooking for guests, caring for a loved-one in an alcoholic stupor, greeting relatives, losing a relative, visiting a forbidden lover, coming home from war.
I think this is what I loved the most about this book because somehow her writing has the opposite effect and lifts her characters up.
"Love Medicine" is a multigenerational novel about two interrelated families living on a North Dakota reservation from the 1930s to the 1980s.
It's written as a series of 18 interlocked stories that often tell about the same situation from a second character's point of view.
Native American myths and tricksters color the stories.
The characters are very conflicted, hanging on to old traditions while living in a modern world.
There is a real sense of family love from the two matriarchs of the Kashpaws and the Lamartines.
These complex characters are brought to life through Louise Erdrich's exceptional writing.
I finally get Erdrich in a way that The Round House, with all of its successes, failed to grab me.
Erdrich's books remind non-Natives that Natives are not dead or mythical or Other, but human beings struggling to make their way like everyone else (with, perhaps, a different set of parameters and restrictions and ghosts bearing down, but inhabiting this planet and its cities and its technologies and its heartbreaks, too).
If you find yourself back in the 1990s and in a college course called "Native American women authors," you should definitely read this book. All other people, including time-travelers, should skip it.
Find this and other Reviews at In Tori LexThis is a memorable family saga that depicts the many hardships Native American Families have faced.
Nector Kapshaw binds two families together because he maintains an affair with a woman while married.
This book describes the family drama, tragedy and alcoholism that afflicts members of the family.
This story enabled me to engage with the realities of poverty and frequent alcoholism in a memorable way.
Recommended For Readers:-who enjoy family sagas-who want to learn more about Native American Communities-who enjoy emotionally charged contemporaries
So many things in the world have happened before.
It was also the basis of my Native American Lit challenge for this year.I didn't love it quite as much this time as I did last, but I still enjoyed it a lot.
The story takes place over about 60 years and is told from many POVs with a large number of the extended family members getting a chapter or two.
After some jumping around at the beginning the story progresses forward in time even as it jumps from family member to family member.
There is a family tree at the beginning of the book--refer to it as you read.
She accomplishes something all too rare--she writes in the voice of an uneducated person who is brilliant.
Many writers can write as an ignoramus--just mess up their grammar and give them small words and a character will seem dumb.
But to write as someone without great facility for language who is simultaneously brilliant, prescient, and uneducated is quite an accomplishment.
I don't often run across a writer that can make so many characters so well-developed and completely flawed but also completely attractive.
I'll keep reading Erdrich.
This book actually earns six stars for the passage near the end about being "in love with the whole world and all that lived in its rainy arms."I read this book because I remember that my grandmother loved it and I'm trying to read all of her favorite books. What if you could read all the same books that someone else read in their lifetime, in the same order, at the same age?
I loved this collection of interlocking stories, each featuring members of two related Chippewa families over three generations in the 20th century. Alcoholism, domestic violence, fierce loyalty, shredded dreams, endurance, the incredible strength of the human spirit are among the themes explored with sensitivity and beautiful insight. Erdrich captures the complexity of the relationships with amazing nuance. Even though we are introduced to a large cast of characters, Erdrich paints each so vividly that I felt as if I knew each one.
I got this book title off a lifetime reading list.
I'm wishing I hadn't read it in my lifetime.
Besides dropping the "F-Bomb" throughout the book, the story was pretty much a depressing chronicle of being drunk or sleeping with anyone but your spouse.
I found it confusing, and actually kind of taxing to remember who was who and how they related.
The other problem with these kind of stories is that there isn't really a plot; things happen, characters' lives go on, and then, the book is done.
I wish I had been done with it before I started.
It’s always baffled me that first-time authors – those least equipped to write multiple narrators successfully – are the most likely to attempt this feat, but I think I’ve hit on the explanation, which is that almost no one, no matter how experienced, can do this well and debut authors are also the least equipped to recognize their limitations.That said, awhile back I tried to read Erdrich’s most recent novel, LaRose, and bounced off of it, finding the plot diffuse and the characters uninteresting.
Louise Erdrich's 1984 debut is one of those novels that's not so much a novel as a collection of related short stories, like Manhattan Transfer, Last Exit to Brooklyn and Visit From the Goon Squad.
It's written with total authority - impressive for a debut - and the stories feel of a whole.
It follows two Native American families, the Lamartines and the Kashpaws, and their extremely complicated lineages.
And here's a family tree, borrowed from this fucked up website, which you'd think would be helpful but is in fact not very helpful except to remind you that it's all very complicated.
I read "Love Medicine" as an anthologized short story twice before I finally picked up the entire book.
"Love Medicine" is one of the three most moving short stories I've ever read.
Lipsha Morrissey's voice, his eye on the world, his confidence in his gift to heal, and .
A history of crazy parents and bitter betrayals and small disappointments?
But Lipsha Morrissey is whole in spite of it and his ability to seek meaning from chaos redeems all the madness that preceeds and surrounds him.
So, that's Lipsha.
But really, he's only a small part of the whole when it comes to Love Medicine.
Rob says:If you haven't treated yourself to the storytelling of Louise Erdrich, this is a great place to start. Her characters are beautiful, tragic, fun and flawed. Sometimes all in the same person! Her subsequent works develop many of the people introduced in Love Medicine. Lots of great reading to be had!
I don't normally give 5 star ratings these days but with this one I had to. This is a beautifully written novel set on an Indian Reservation in Dakota. It's the story of two families the Kashpaws and the Lamartines who aren't strangers to adversity by any means. This is a novel about family and the ties that bind people together. The characters here are flawed, deeply flawed but that adds to the strength of the novel overall. A poignant novel that explores dark themes. Another from the Boxall 1000 list.
Also, one of the characters has adopted many children over her lifetime and another has given birth to children by 7 or 8 different men.I like Louise Erdrich’s wry writing style, which is in full evidence even in this first novel.
He’d had the grace, at least, to go AWOL from army boot camp and never let his face be seen again.Two old men that we meet at the beginning of the novel, but will see in more detail as the book returns again and again to the past: Nector came home from boarding school knowing white reading and writing, while Eli knew the woods.
To write a novel, start with a good short story.
She transitioned from poetry to short stories into novels, and while the transition was not seamless, it was, and still is, a journey and a growth the reader can experience with her.
Her early novels do read like short story collections with the imagistic intesity of poetry.
Erdrich describes it as if the character were being licked by a giant tongue while hot breath engulfed her.
I'm looking forward to writing more about her books, and about my other reading experiences.
She deserved her National Book Award.I particularly appreciate what she did with the various stories, and how the novel intertwines two different modes of story telling - the traditional Western narratives of the novel with the intertwined multi-voiced traditions of native storytelling.
On one hand, the story has no beginning and no end - there are so many characters telling so many stories that you can imagine a whole other book about containing more.
like the title suggests, if you let this book and its fascinating characters into your heart, you'll find yourself healed in some way.
If you read this book keep in mind a couple of things while you're moving from paragraph to paragraph and page to page: how often colors are mentioned and in what context as well who they're associated with; then add in all the references to magic, the supernatural and religion.
Oh, and of course keep referring back to the handy family tree.
This is a powerful and moving story of an American family, trapped by the laws and regulations of racism and prejudice.
Erdrich tells a different kind of story that relies much more on realism.
It's often depressing, but at the same time it feels so true, the kind of truth that's good medicine.On a side note, I don't recommend reading this on the kindle.
On top of that, the kindle didn't have the different chapters marked, it often changed the amount of time left in a chapter, or it thought I was finishing the book with it only 40% complete.
You're going to want to flip between chapters to make connections between all the stories, so I definitely recommend reading this in print.
Probably the best selection Ive read so far from 2015: The Year of Reading Women. I didnt realize it was a novel-I thought that they were merely short stories with intertwining characters, the way García Márquez recycles his. I was mistaken, and discovered it only once I was well into the novel. Because of this, if I were to re-read it, Id do so when I had more free time. There are a lot of affairs and intermarrying between the two families, and I honestly found it harder to as time went on to k
I didn´t realize it was a novel-I thought that they were merely short stories with intertwining characters, the way García Márquez recycles his.
Because of this, if I were to re-read it, I´d do so when I had more free time.
There are a lot of affairs and intermarrying between the two families, and I honestly found it harder to as time went on to keep track of who was who.
Some are told in first person and some in third, but I think that I found that Lishpa´s stories had the most distinctive voice, the voice that would not be confused with others.
This book had no definable plot or great story to tell. It was awful.
Before I had yet read Karen Manuelito’s examination of the intersection of interests between indigenous “womanisms,” highlighting particularly the commonalities between the experiences of African American and American Indian women, I noted the similarities between the emphases on female experience in Morrison’s Beloved and Erdrich’s Love Medicine.
This seems to underline several common threads in Morrison’s and Erdrich’s works—they center many of their narratives on the specific struggles of women as their characters chart a balance between the prerogatives of nurturing, protecting, and providing for children, and the need to establish a strong sense of self-worth and individual dignity.
There are a lot of characters in this book, and if the family tree in front of the book did not scare you at first (Really, I got Wuthering Heights flashbacks), you will be baffled by the amount of relationships and links these people have with each other.
I often had to go back to the family tree to see who was actually talking.
This is what made these family portraits convincing because these people could easily exist in real life, and that's something that I really like when a novel accomplishes that.
