https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246225.Strong_Poison
One can't be very convincing at the other end of a table with a bloke looking through the door.'"Also, and I know I've mentioned this before, you don't really share things with your readers, Hercule, or even the other characters in your stories.
Lord Peter is different - not only did I know every detail of the case as he discovered it, but he even shared the investigation with other characters in the book!
So I'm sorry to say that Lord Peter Wimsey is now my favorite detective* at the moment, and that I think it's time we took a break while I explore this.
In 1847, the average woman who read novels apparently wanted Mr Rochester. In 1930, she wanted Lord Peter Wimsey. And in 2015, she wants Christian Grey.This is called progress.
Unfortunately, Harriet Vane, the source of Lord Peter’s willingness to forgo the bachelor life for a house and family, is not in a position to accept.Harriet Vane is in the prisoner’s dock of the court, charged with the murder of her previous lover.
There is also the question of how the murder was done.
More significantly, will the information they need come to light in time to save Harriet Vane?Once again, Dorothy Sayers spins out a great mystery and some fascinating and clever sleuth-work on the part of Lord Peter and his friends and associates.
I was reading this, feeling a whole lotta deja vu and just wondering which came first, Dorothy Sayers' Lord Peter Wimsey series or PG Wodehouse's Wooster/Jeeves series, when out of the blue one of Sayers' characters name-drops Jeeves!For me and the sort of reading I enjoy, this hit the spot!
It was like reading a murder mystery penned by Wodehouse.
There's something very Wooster-like about the foppish Wimsey.
It's not the most devilishly clever of murder mysteries, but it's good reading and I will definitely pick up another in the Wimsey series!Rating Note: This was a strong 3.5 stars.
dorothy sayers is one of the most elegant of writers and her super-detective peter wimsey is one of literature's most elegant creations.
he's a semi-tragic war hero, he's brave & strong & fast & loyal, he's kind to service staff, he's a defender of the innocent...and all his heroic attributes would grow quickly obnoxious except that sayers places them in the persona of an effete, often snobby, often condescending dandy, a straight oscar wilde who can kick your ass if you get too rude.
this kind of character has reappeared in many places over time, but this is my favorite incarnation of the type.
I think this may be the Sayers I read in my younger years & didn't much care for.I can appreciate Sayers' ability more now.I did enjoy this title very much, but not quite a perfect read for me. There was quite a bit of filler & not many suspects. But the murder method was ingenious & this is enough to make this title a most satisfying read.Good stuff!
You would think that having read Strong Poison once, listened to the Ian Carmichael audiobook, and watched the Edward Petherbridge tv adaptation twice, I wouldn't be still at the point of giggling every few pages or staying up all night to finish it.
Such a chillingly telling moment, and dropped in at the end of a chapter, and never returned to -- how typical of Peter's character, for something so serious to be only glanced across.
And it's one of those moments that you see Peter very clearly as more than a silly ass, instead of just having to take that on faith.
Published in 1930, this is the sixth book to feature Lord Peter Wimsey and the first to feature Harriet Vane.
When Philip Boyes is poisoned, it looks as though Harriet is the obvious person to accuse.In a race against time, Lord Peter is determined to find the real murderer and so we set off on an exciting adventure, including false wills, mediums, notorious great-aunts and the glorious Miss Climpson who, against her moral scruples, is sent by Lord Peter to help solve the crime.This is a delightful mystery, with wonderful characters, lots of humour, a great plot and a real sense of danger – as Lord Peter has to solve the crime and rescue Harriet.
He constantly surprises with his intelligence and insight, which leap all unexpected out of the apparently harmless "buffoonery" others identify him with and is all the more searing because of it.In Strong Poison, this appealing charm is only added to by the fact that Peter is, at seemingly long last, showing his vulnerability and humanity beneath the clownish exterior, and he does it by falling deeply in love with an accused murderer, Harriet Vane.
I listened to this on audiobook and completely forgot to add it to my Goodreads challenge. Dorothy L. Sayers is now officially my no. 1 Agatha Christie substitute. If you like Agatha Christie, I can only recommend checking out one of the Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries! They have a very similar feel to them and they're always very satirical and funny.
The reason I mention Unnatural death is that here too Miss Climpson is sent to investigate something but in Strong Poison it wasn't too much and she actually does interesting things trying to find the item she came for.
He works slower here because this time he has something to lose (no, his brother's problem from one of the previous books is not the same).The case is not that interesting and there are so few suspects that there is no real surprise in the end, but the way Lord Wimsey, Miss Climpson, the typist who works for her, and many, many others mobilise to solve the case is lovely.
Hello, Harriet Vane. We don't know you very well yet, but we will. I am not sure how many times I have read this but it was even more enjoyable this time because of my trip to England.I have now walked some of the streets mentions and could visualize it all so much better. As always I have the feeling thatI am just not smart enough yet to get all the jokes and nods. But I got more this time around than last.
4.5*
I enjoy every Lord Peter Wimsey novel more than the last!
With each book we learn a little more about Lord Peter and his personality blooms.
'The Cattery' a front for other things revealed in this book) are joined by Miss Murchison in aiding Lord Peter to prove the innocence of Miss Vane, for whom he has taken a particular fancy and has decided to marry.The problem is, Miss Vane's latest novel details a murder very similar to that of which she stands accused, and she can be proved to have had quantities of arsenic in her possession.Another cracking good read from Dorothy L Sayers.
He narrated a few in this series and also was in a full cast recording by BBC (abridged dramatizations) and he also played Lord Peter Wimsey on TV.
I remember seeing a BBC Wimsey series with a different actor, which turned me on to reading the books in the 80's or it may have been the other way around.
Wimsey falls in love at first sight with Harriet and proposes to her when he meets her face to face for the first time - while she is a prisoner awaiting trial!
It looks like I'll have to re-read most of this series myself as the majority of the audio books are abridged.
In it, Peter Wimsey first meets the love of his life, Harriet Vane, a writer of mystery novels.
His clock is ticking too – he has only one month to collect his evidence and find the real killer before the woman he loves is convicted and hanged.The plot is fairly simple, but the characters are what makes the story shine, especially Peter.
I’ve been re-reading this series chronologically in the order of publication, and in this book Peter is coming to life more than in any of the previous novels.
Jednom je neko objašnjavao Edmundu Vilsonu kako je Doroti Sejers ozbiljan pisac a ne samo autorka krimića, i Vilson (koji se u slobodno vreme družio s Nabokovom dok nije krenuo da kritikuje Nabokovljeve prevode s ruskog) sedne i uzme da čita i naravno strašno se razočara i tom razočaranju da oduška preko novina....Jasno je na čemu se zasnivaju argumenti i jedne i druge strane - Sejersova ima velike ambicije (pogledati kako iskusno i vešto gradi uvodnu scenu u Strong Poison) ali, s druge strane, drugi su imali i mnogo veće, a bolje ostvarene (sve je ovo pisano u doba visokog modernizma, nađite primere sami).
It misses a bit on the nuance that will build between Lord Peter and herself- but which hasn't risen to its zenith yet.
I sure hope Lord Peter pays her an exorbitant salary.It's dire circumstances for the ending of Harriet's former relationship.
And also some very traditional changes for both Mary and our favorite police inspector give Lord Peter a new possible brother-in-law, and thanks to his "help" too.There's tons of dialect and the reading with allusions and era referencing quite difficult.
But Dorothy Sayers doesn't pander down- you need to rise to it.I love the style of humor and its absolutely classic and unique wit.On to all the others I have not read.
Sayers wrote many novels.
Four feature Lord Peter Wimsey and love interest Harriet Vane.
Those are my favorites: STRONG POISON, HAVE HIS CARCASE, GAUDY NIGHT and BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON.There is something about Sayers' writing that conveys images, humor, characters, etc., from her brain to mine.
GAUDY NIGHT actually is my all-time favorite book.
She simply writes marvelous mysteries.
I actually read THE NINE TAILORS first, which only whetted my appetite for her voice.
Sayers died in 1957.
A Brit, she was terribly remote to me yet, as an author, she and I are in sync.I do not let my Sayers books out of my house.
Sayers is the fifth featuring Lord Peter Wimsey, a nobleman and an amateur detective.The story takes place in 1930 London.
Following the trial, Lord Peter visits Harriet in prison and declares his belief in her innocence and promises to catch the real murderer.
Lord Peter enlists his friends and associates in his endeavor - DI Charles Parker, Hon. Freddy Arbuthnot and a highly entertaining "spy", Miss Murchison.To be honest, it took me a bit to get into the book.
The original crime is presented by the judge at the trial summarizing the case before sending the jury out for deliberation.
It is in Strong Poison that we – and indeed Lord Peter – meet Harriet Vane – who is an important figure in some later Sayers novels.
Ably assisted by the utterly marvellous Bunter, Miss Climpson and the ladies of The Cattery – a typing bureau that is really a bureau of investigation funded by Wimsey, Lord Peter sets out to prove Harriet Vane innocent.
I found this overall to be a thoroughly entertaining read, and for those readers new to Dorothy L Sayers it would make a pretty good one to start with.
First of all, I love that the new edition has an introduction by Edward Petherbridge.
Okay, I do get a little frustrated with Peter for making the fact that Harriet is likely to be hanged about how awful it is for him, when he barely knows her and has just fallen in love at first sight.
Peter, Miss Climpson and Bunter keep it from being weighed down — along with Parker’s delightful realisation about Mary.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
For some reason, I can’t find the name of the person who voiced Harriet, and my Audible file doesn’t seem to include that intro.
Still, Strong Poison is mostly not about Harriet, and she appears comparatively little — really, it’s about Lord Peter getting to be a knight in shining armour, and he really starts escalating toward sainthood in his actions here, how he comes to save her and doesn’t push and so on.
If you look at it with a cynical eye, it’s all rather obvious lionising of the character.Still, if you’re a fan of Lord Peter, you can lay that aside and just enjoy him sleuthing away on the trail of the real murderer, plus his sudden feelings for Harriet.
I think I would have liked this book better if I didn't already know Lord Peter Wimsey from "Clouds of Witness"—meaning, I love Peter so much, that I was disappointed he wasn't in "Strong Poison" more.
Which, for a pure mystery is fine, but the character-side of the story wasn't able to be as developed.As for the mystery, I did enjoy it, and thought the final chapters were really well written and conclusive.
I was able to figure out most of it by the end, but there were still a few surprises.Overall I'm glad I read it, and I'll probably pick up another Wimsey story before too long.

Dorothy Sayers would definitely be my next favourite classic crime author. It’s intriguing yet whimsical along the way. Her Lord Peter wimsey character is perfectly charming and a little centric all in one. It’s a classic crime mystery.
On the present occasion, all the ingredients of an enjoyable party were present in full force."I'm not a huge fan of detective novels - honestly, I find them a bit tiresome - but when a close friend said that I HAD to give Dorothy L.
The P.G. Wodehouse comparison is unavoidable - same era between the wars, same set - although Lord Peter Wimsey and his clever butler Bunter are more than a match for Wooster and Jeeves.
Even better, the novel is full of clever, enterprising women - from detective novelist Harriet Vane to the various employees of "the Cattery".
Sayers is wonderful with characterisation and dialogue, and I think she is every bit as funny as Wodehouse.
The accused is a young woman, Harriet Vane, who is on trial for killing her former lover by arsenic poisoning.
He takes Miss Climpson aside after the Court adjourns.I hope you won't mind, because I haven't shaved since this morning, but I'm going to take you round the next quiet corner and kiss you.LOL!"He visits Harriet in gaol where he not only asks her for facts about the case, he asks her to marry him.
In Strong Poison Sayers has Harriet live "in sin" with Boyes and then break up with him when he proposes marriage, on the principle that he made a fool of her by propounding free love and then going all traditional after she'd given in.
I remember reading that Sayers intended to end the book with Harriet and Peter falling into each other's arms, and then realized that this would be completely wrong for the character she'd written.
Yes, the very same Miss Climpson, despite her name changing from Alexandra (in Unnatural Death) to Katherine (amusingly, one time, Katherine Alexandra as if Sayers knew she'd got something wrong but couldn't be bothered to check).
Really liked it, too, and now is raving about Gaudy Night.) And of course I had to reread it as well!You all know I love Sayers, especially the Harriet books.
This one isn't perfect; I think it's too long, for one, and it feels like the middle section contains some extraneous details - but it's a fabulous introduction because Harriet is such a well-drawn, compelling character.
