https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67700.The_Persian_Boy
At its heart, The Persian Boy is a love story, and it too is indeed a powerful one.
Mary Renault takes an interesting approach to telling this story however, and the entire book is written from the point of view of Bagoas, The "Persian Boy." Bagoas was an actual historical figure; he was a eunuch, and catamite, who was originally possessed by Darius III, emperor of Persia.
The difference between true love and simple desire, honor and perfidy, courage and cowardice are all explored at great length; it's very Greek in that respect.Alexander has often been compared to Achilles, and Mary Renault has no problem running with that comparison in a lot of her passages.
Renault also posits the notion that Alexander's relentless drive to conquer the world stemmed in part from his troubled relationship with his domineering mother, and his desire to "escape" from her influence by leading his army ever eastward.بالای عنوان: سرگذشت واقعی داریوش سوم و اسکندر مقدونی ؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یازدهم ماه جولای سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: پسر ایرانی؛ ماری رنولت؛ مترجم: ابوالقاسم حالت؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1369، شابک: 9643110249؛ در 651 ص؛ چاپ سوم 1373، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 معنوان: پسر ایرانی؛ ماری رنولت؛ مترجم: مهتاب سلطانی راد؛ تهران، نوین، 1388، شابک: 9789646325630؛ در 564 ص؛پسر ایرانی رمانی تاریخی نوشته ی: ماری رنولت، به سال 1972 میلادی است.
Mary Renault compared them to these two in this novel, which is another reason why I can’t understand why Hephaistion was so heartbreakingly (at least for me) absent in this book.And Bagoas… I HATED HIM.
I didn’t believe in his “love” for Alexander.
I think I’m going to remove this book from my m/m shelf because I didn’t feel the romance at all.
Not just because of the absence of Hephaistion, but also because I didn't learn anything I hadn't known before:/But I’m going to read Fire from Heaven (why didn’t I read it first?
(I didn’t say anything good about this book, did I?
The first quarter of the book is exclusively concerned with the life of Bagoas and the Persian court during which Alexander is little more than a rumour of menace and looming danger.
Of course everything is told from Bagoas’ perspective so many events, primarily battles and the personal and political affairs of Alexander that do not revolve around Bagoas, are told second hand.
I didn’t personally find Bagoas to be a particularly compelling character, though he was by no means a bad one, and I really just wanted to get a closer look at Alexander and his life as we did in the first volume.
Splendid. I savored every page. Bagoas's devotion to his lord and his understanding of the warrior he lay with every night--his deep love for Alexander and respect for this flawed but incredible man, moved and inspired me.The tale is epic. The journey is unforgettable. The excitement and exotic landscapes are beautifully rendered--the history and romance coming together like Macedonia and Persia.The last few chapters, from Hephaistion's death and on, are worth the whole sweeping book.In Hades world, will Patrocles finally allow The Persian Boy to continue to love his Achilles?What a tale that could be...
Every time I pick this book up to read just a passage I find myself getting sucked in again. This is my desert island book, if I could just bring one with me. Every time I read it I could just turn it over and start from the beginning again. It's epic and then again, it's about a boy's first love. There's the sweep of history, and then there's very personal humor and heartbreak. Seriously, Bagoas will rip your heart out. The last line makes me cry. I will probably never be able to read Funeral Games, it's too upsetting.
Before going into this book I expected The Persian Boy to directly follow on, with Alexander crossing over into Anatolia, and the titular character of Bagoas to be a significant character but the story told once again third person mainly from Alexander’s perspective.
At just over 400 pages it’s longer than most historical novels these days, but it feels like a true epic twice as long, such is the breadth and scope of Renault’s vision – and indeed such was the grand scope of Alexander’s life.
I had wanted to witness Alexander's great conquests; like the Battle of Issos, Battle of Arbela, his Indian campaign, and a great many other which I couldn't remember because it was only mentioned in passing.
The third-person account in Fire from Heaven hid no secrets that Hephaistion loved Alexander.
However, since this was in Bagoas' perspective, one could not witness the intense pain Alexander felt at the death of his beloved.
Without Hephaistion, he cannot bear even immortality.My chatting with Alicja led to a better understanding of Renault's purpose of writing TPB in Bagoas' pov.
It didn't bother me that much, then, that her books were so universally lacking in female characters - she wrote about Greek, mostly homosexual (though all of them, with the possible exception of Bagoas, are at least slightly bisexual, which touch of realism I also appreciated) men, and those were important stories that needed to be told, even though there was little room for women in them.However, several years later, having just now finished the last of her historical novels that I will ever read for the first time (two of her earlier, contemporary set efforts I haven't been able to secure yet), I find that I can look at her with clearer, more judgmental eyes.
Bagoas loves Alexander obsessively, caring for him like a fretting nursemaid, sleeping with him whenever he needs or wants it with little thought to his own pleasure, and in the heartbreaking final scene (view spoiler)[caring for Alexander in his final inglorious moments and guarding his body in the chaos after his death.
(hide spoiler)] Bagoas is Alexander's slave, in the literal sense of course, but he is also completely and utterly mentally enslaved to him.
He does make gestures of presents to Bagoas, including a very sad scene where (view spoiler)[ Alexander casually asks Bagoas his birthday and Bagoas weeps, as his previous owner Darius III never even thought to ask (hide spoiler)], but you get the sense that this is Alexander being polite.
The only historical romance the stole my heart and broke it at the end.....so sad.
When Alexander came, he escaped and was presented to Alexander as a gift.
This here begins the romance of Bagoas the persian dancing boy and Alexander the Great.
Note that this is not entirely history since historical reference of Bagoas was very scarce.
BUT he was referred to as Alexander's "most Beloved" and Alexander did indeed kiss him in public after he won the dancing competition.
Sadly I have a feeling his place was not as high as Alexander's best friend Hephaestion, who was involved with Alexander as well.
Extremely vivid, descriptive historical fiction about the relationship between Alexander the Great and a slave boy named Bagoas, and (I say this as someone with very little interest in romance/love stories) a touchingly beautiful love story.
The two characters are so gorgeously human and wonderful, and the selfless, unconditional love Bagoas feels for Alexander is just so moving and real.
The ending seemed understated and even a little abrupt at first but then after I thought about it I decided it was a perfect ending, the truest to the character of Bagoas.
Alexander sets him free but Bagoas chooses to stay and serve him, and then proceeds to fall in love with and seduce the king.
He also questioned his place with Alexander among the king’s wives and Hephaestion, Alexander’s lifelong best friend and lover.Throughout, we see a version of Alexander that historical books, sparse on the details of his private life, can’t provide.
She weaves history, realism, myth, and invention in such a way that it leads you to believe that these really were the details of Alexander’s life, as written by Bagoas after the king’s death (and the first person point of view is literary magic in her hands).
"The Persian Boy" is the second volume of Mary Renault's biographical recreation of the life and deeds of Alexander the Great.
It was the story of a fascinating transformation, expertly told in the third person by an unseen narrator.
Here, the story is told in the first person, narrated by an adult lover and eunuch, who as a youth was sold as a courtesan to the king of Persia, only to be liberated after Alexander's Macedonian army conquers his homeland.
While Alexander conquers Egypt and India, the narrator follows, as servant, then lover, and finally confidant, supporting and advising Alexander through assassination attempts, the demands of two foreign wives, and a sometimes-mutinous army.
The Persian Boy details his conquests from the perspective of one of his lovers, a eunuch based on an actual historical personage.It was at about this time, while in the midst of a Mary Renault binge, that I came upon one of her contemporary novels at a bookstore near Columbia University.
Although I'd read at least six of her novels by this point and although all of them had at least some portrayal of ancient Greek bisexuality, it had never, ever entered my mind that she was gay or pushing the lifestyle.

I feel drained.
Alexander, my beautiful boy, I love you.
His characterization was so lovely, in this book and in the first.
My only wish is that Hephaistion and Bagoas had loved him together, not apart.
Also, I cried so much at the end.
I know Alexander and Hephaistion were Achilles and Patroclus, but did Renault really have to do me like that with the grieving scenes...
It hurt so much.***"Without Hephaistion, he cannot bear even immortality." (Ouch.)"[Alexander] gave me a look, and I thought, The world is breaking.""Perdikkas stepped over to the bed.
They don't write them like this anymore.Normally when I really love a book, I tear through ravenously, but this one made me linger.
(It makes me sad because there's so much stupid prescriptive writing advice being handed out to young writers these days telling them to avoid exposition altogether, when there are books like this that show how perfectly an exposition-heavy style can work when well done.) I loved Bagoas's voice, and the beautiful details of the character insights.
When you put into perspective the time period, the cultures, and then think about the things Alexander did, it's absolutely extraordinary.This is the story of Alexander's later life, as told through the eyes of his Persian "boy", Bagoas, who also (in this story and perhaps in real life) was his lover.
Other novels have characters butt themselves in where they don't belong, miraculously receive information that is just what the reader needs, a chain of messengers, have the narrator skip over that time period and summarize it, or the absolute worst, switch to third person past to relay the scene.Renault never does that; Bagoas is a pretty prominent character, part of Alexander's court, so it makes sense he would know some of what he does.
The story is narrated entirely by a eunuch, Bagoas, that Alexander is gifted by a defeated Persian lord early on in Alexander's conquest of Persia and Asia in general.
The eunuch loves Alexander so much that it gets annoying as the story goes on.
I'm not opposed to reading about relationships but as this is a telling of the story of a great military leader I would have enjoyed the narrative more if we could have heard from some of the soldiers, sailors or other conquered peoples regarding the events that took place.The book is mind-numbingly repetitive in several aspects.
I love the way she showed us Alexander the Great differently than he is often portrayed in the history books and Pressfield novels.
Renault focuses on Alexander the lover how he was viewed by his Persian boy; a eunuch, a slave, but also an influential master of his privy chamber.
I was bothered in the beginning by Renault's romanticizing what would be consider modern pedophilia but then I think it is important for historical novels to accurately depict the times without whitewash.
She is an excellent writer and this is considered one of her most influential works.
I came late to the party, but that doesn't mean I am any less enthusiastic than those who advised me Renault's trilogy about Alexander was historical fiction of the finest quality.
It's the best of the trilogy by some margin, and less depressing than the final volume.The character of Bagoas is one of the deftest I have ever encountered between the pages of a novel.
His love affair with Alexander is one the most beautiful descriptions of a relationship I've ever read - and that's quite unexpected, given that it's between two men.Masterful, masterful stuff.
However, and this is where I will sound like a petulant child, this read a bit like Alexander/Hephaistion and Alexander/Bagoas fanfic in which Hephaistion could just as well not have been there, but the pairing was put in the header to justify the fic's posting on an Alexander/Hephaistion community.
Of course the narrator (Bagoas) is completely biased and a lot of Hephaistion's absence will be attested to that.
But dammit, I missed Hephaistion.
A good novel about a Persian slave boy who is picked up by, and adventures with, Alexander the Great. I was happy to recognize several incidents and characters within - it's very well researched.I'm not one usually to tolerate love stories and romances and intrigues, but this seemed more palatable. Give it a shot if you like either history or romance, and don't mind homosexuality. If you are none of these, pass it over.
My favorite of all of her's. I don't want to give anything away, so read it. Alexandros III King of Macedon, known as Alexander the Great from age 25 - death, just before his 33rd birthday.It's beautiful.
Bagoas y su punto de vista te hace mucho más fácil entender esa atracción y admiración que llegó a sentir Alejandro por la cultura y pueblo persa.
De todas formas el incomparable amor que sentía por Hephaestion se palpa y rezuma por todos lados y no hace ninguna falta que la historia se centre en ellos dos para darse cuenta de ello.
Pero es la historia que es, es como ocurrió y no puedes evitar llegar a sentir tanta admiración por Alejandro como todos sus compañeros.
A pesar de todo eso, es una historia épica, un viaje increíble y Alejandro, tanto si prefieres imaginarlo como a un grande o como a un tirano, no te deja indiferente.
Di certo non renderei omaggio al grande talento dell'autrice.Parliamo di Alessandro Magno: una delle più interessanti personalità storiche.
E il bello è che non è nemmeno il protagonista, anzi.Ma veniamo al romanzo.Il protagonista indiscusso è Bagoa, un eunuco tra le cui gambe (sic!) sono passati i grandi della storia di quel tempo.
Sì, è sempre lì che piange e si dispera, e ripiange, e pensa a quanto ama Alessandro, ma la descrizione delle sue emozioni avviene con un certo distacco (giustificato dalla narrazione a posteriori), ed io non sono riuscito a sentirmi particolarmente coinvolto.E' un romanzo assolutamente da consigliare.
Eunuchs are very rare in historical fiction, let alone sympathetic ones, and god forbid as main characters, so when I first heard about this book I practically jumped on it.
I even ended up caring about Alexander, after almost two thirds of the book spent stubbornly insisting I hadn't at all even through four years of a classics degree, why start now, oh god I am just going to stare at the wall for a while instead.Renault's prose is exceptional: concise, spare, yet synthetic and delicate.
As great and devoted as he was he was jealous of Hephaestion's special love and place in Alexander's life.
When she apologized Alexander's words were, "He too is Alexander, Madam." Bagoa, the eunich, at one point wanted to murder Hephaestion...but he learned that Alexander had love to give and loved giving it.
However, when Hephaestion died, Alexander's grief was so great that Bagoas wished it was HE that had died in Hephaestion's place.But the author gives the reader so much more.
...a window into Alexander's daily life, his battles, his dealings with enemies.......he was fair beyond reproach.He was truly a living legend.......as I came to learn.
when is he going to drop dead alreadygjkfgjkdfg?!") I like Alexander but clearly not as much as the deadly combination of Renault-through-Bagoas does.
Alexander comes across as vaguely obnoxious through the Bagoas filter; his actions sometimes seem reprehensible to me, but the text itself never acknowledges that.
Most incomprehensible of all to me was the strange falling-apart and yet not-falling-apart of Alexander and Hephaestion's relationship.
Maybe I am too naturally jealous a person to understand why this fictional Hephaestion did not initially object to Alexander's taking on another lover.
Bagoas' POV is too narrow and too biased, maybe; too much is unseen.
Or maybe it just doesn't make sense.
