https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1865139.A_Game_of_Hide_and_Seek
Also, there are a few sections that are rather different in tone from the rest of the book, making it feel a little unfinished.Harriet and Vesey have known each other since childhood, but the book starts between the wars, when they are around 18 and spend much of the summer at the house of his aunt, where Harriet is helping with the children.
As she remembers a tryst, she reinvents it, whereas Vesey dismisses it because "'we are children.' He did not know that at his age most youths believe that they are men."This summer makes up the first third of the novel, and teenage awkwardness and doubt is painfully authentic, though it's harder to see why Harriet is so attracted to Vesey when he's oafish, self-centred and lacking in empathy.
The ending in many ways is the right one although inevitably sad - and one I think I will keep thinking about for many days.Life for Harriet passes by quickly – in the narrative the years speed by – just as in life Suddenly she is middle aged with an almost grown daughter, more than once she wishes she could be young again – that she and Vesey could have their time over.“If only we were young again!” she said in a tired voice “And might have a second chance”The daily routines of a conventional wife and mother are brilliantly reproduced.
Perfect love casteth out awkwardness  The intro described this as a cross between Wuthering Heights and Persuasion... Yeah.... I think I'd rather read actual Brontë and Austen. *yikes*I couldn't make head nor tails of the love story in the beginning. Of the why these two together. And that just set a more negative tone for the whole novel for me which I could never get over. The writing was, however, very lovely and there was much to admire in the development of certain characters. Hovering aro
Perfect love casteth out awkwardness 
The intro described this as a cross between Wuthering Heights and Persuasion...
Yeah....
I think I'd rather read actual Brontë and Austen.
*yikes*I couldn't make head nor tails of the love story in the beginning.
And that just set a more negative tone for the whole novel for me which I could never get over.
The writing was, however, very lovely and there was much to admire in the development of certain characters.
Hovering around the two and a half to three stars rating...Maybe closer to two...
Full marks for the gorgeous hardback cover on this edition though!
I almost died of boredom.
A Game of hide and Seek is the story of Harriet and Vesey who develop affectionate feelings for one another as children but fate plays a game of hide and seek with their lives.The novel has very strong character sketches.
Vesey is always the insensitive fellow, but Taylor explains how or why he is so towards the ending which made me love his character too.
Charles (Harriet's husband), who is aware of Harriet’s affections towards Vesey, feels his marriage threatened by Vesey’s presence.
Taylor brings out his fears and agony as a husband while contrasting it to the desperation and yearning that Harriet and Vesey feel for each other.
How many young girls, on the cusp of life at age 18, have felt the disturbing notion that infatuated love and devotion has been rather wasted on an inferior object (or should I say subject?).
When Harriet and Vesey are thrown together during a summer in their teenage years, Harriet develops an inexplicable (and mostly pained) passion for the awkward and unpleasant Vesey.
Sixteen years later, after Harriet has married Charles and is a mother to teenage Betsy, Vesey reappears in her life.
Harriet - I suppose we should designate her the protagonist - is a rather colourless, drippy, unknowable character.
Opening lines:Sometimes in the long summer’s evenings, which are so marked a part of our youth, Harriet and Vesey played hide-and-seek with the younger children, running across the tufted meadows, their shoes yellow with the pollen of buttercups.This is the love story between Harriet and Vesey, a love they captivated since their youth.
However, their lives take a different course and Harriet married another man.
But their love nevertheless persists even if this not brings a happy end to the story.This is the first book of this author I've read and I'm planning to read more.
We may stand perfectly still, but our surroundings shift round and we are not in the same relationship to them for long; just as a chameleon, matching perfectly the greenness of a leaf, should know that the leaf will one day fade.It was Elizabeth Taylor like I love.
I mean, I know that beginnings always are hard and imperfect but I didn't think about it the way Taylor showed it: women that were underpaid and were trying to live freely (in love life) like they thought the must do it.And of course, there was a love story.
The description of their typical hide-and-seek game gives us a glimpse into the story of Harriet and Vesey as they sat quietly waiting to be found by the younger children: "The ticking of each heart, which they believed the other must hear, was like a pendulum rocking in in a hollow case...Vesey would move his eyes toward her, as if to move his head, too, would betray them...A different hiding place would have prolonged the search and their exquisite stay in heaven or hell; but neither could suggest what might mean their betrayal to one another."This is a life-long story of two people, and I don't mean to make it sound too grand, but it is about more than marriage or betrayal or judgement.
Taylor gives these characters a life, a history, and a place in imagination beyond the pages of this book.
‘She does have rather snivelling ways,’ he thought aloofly...It's that Harriet does have rather snivelling ways that drove me to distraction.
Harriet is just 18 when the novel opens and is afraid of her own shadow.
As I embarked on this journey of reading Elizabeth Taylor, I stumbled across a remark to the effect that all of her novels are the same.
While that is most certainly not literally true, there is a theme of infidelity running through them.
(Was it Taylor's dealing with the age-old question of infidelity?) In any case this is a good 3-stars, but certainly not four.
At the center are Harriet and Vesey, with their "love" thwarted by his summary dismissal from his aunt's house.
It was never clear to me that he had any intention of following through with rescuing her from her situation; it later turns out he can barely take care of himself.
The only remotely likeable characters might be Harriet's mother, as well as "Aunt" Caroline and Uncle Hugo, but even they add to the the downer note of this trainwreck-in-the-offing story.
I'd be willing to read another Taylor story to determine whether my unhappiness is from this unpleasant offering, or whether I just don't care for her writing.
And if you have seen that film or read that book you have experienced the mix of laughter, tears, indignation, and sympathy that Taylor's stories evoke.In A Game of Hide and Seek we meet Harriet and Vesey when they are 18, he casually cruel to hide his insecurity, she shy and fearful.
The closest they come to outward expression of the intensity they feel is when playing hide and seek with two young friends.
It is quintessentially Elizabeth Taylor.In the second part of the book it is some years later and Harriett is married with a 15-year old daughter.
I am a bit puzzled by this book. I loved all the characters; I thought the main focus would be around the two lovers, but there actually is a complete cast of characters and each one of them is deep, recognizable and original. The countryside/domestic setting is depicted very skillfully and everything felt very near and real.Yet, I can't say that I enjoyed the main theme - Harriet and Vesey's love story. It is beautiful and true, but, personally, I wasn't particularly moved nor I sympathized with their choices.Overall though, it is indeed a beautiful novel with a great story!
The main narrative concerns the relationship between Harriet and Vesey from their friendship when they were young which blossoms into an awkward love.
I loved the supporting characters and Taylor's style and I suspect that my criticism of the main plot and characters may be a bit harsh; if I were to re-read it I think my view may be different.
I suppose at some point my idea of you must have diverged from you yourself."--Elizabeth Taylor, A Game of Hide and SeekThis is one of those stories that sneaks up on you.
I can't say that I enjoyed the actual story, but the writing itself grabbed me from the start.
The language is engrossing with illuminating observations and some brilliantly subtle phrasing.You begin with an ordinary, almost mundane, scene then you get some of the undercurrents from the characters' thoughts.
Throughout, there are some conversations but they are just the surface and the real action is going on inside the characters' minds.
Now I know I need to find more of her stories.
Elizabeth Taylor writes so sensitively about inner feelings. She is very clever at recalling adolescent yearnings and their romanticised views. I found it a very moving book. Dealing with life and how our choices affect everything and everyone involved. Harriet's relationship with her mother was very touching to me. The danger of idealizing memories and people. It was beautifully written and I loved it.
Perhaps it is just me, but it was one of those books that I had to make myself read to the end.
I had a hard time putting my finger on what it was that I didn't enjoy about this book.
At any point I did start to feel a bit of dislike for Harriet, Taylor changed perspective to a different character.
I gave it two stars because I did manage to read it until the end (which was also a disappointment).Sorry Taylor, but you are no Austen.
I don't need to like the characters in a novel to like a book.
But these characters were not worth any emotions that I tried to muster up.
I just kept thinking, "that's who you're in love with?
really?"That said, I can't argue that Taylor lacked talent.
She deftly drew each character and setting, so that I was entirely in each scene.
I think this is just one of those that comes down to personal taste.
Although this is not a Persephone book, it falls in the Persephone milieu of early 20th century English domestic setting.
Not to mention Nicola Beauman's biography of Taylor.
I can now see why the 'other' Elizabeth Taylor is sometimes compared to Barbara Pym, though she's more cynical, more akin to another contemporary, Graham Green, and this book is much darker than the Taylor book recently made into a sappy movie, Mrs. Palfrey at the Claremont.
There are no admirable characters in this book--it looks like Taylor tried hard to keep them unlovable--but that's not to say you don't come to care about them.
Taylor's very subtle in handling this, and that takes real art.
A year seems a long time to wait until the following summer when she hopes to see him again.With Vesey gone, Harriet finds a job in a gown shop, and in time she meets Charles Jephcott, a man who, at thirty-five, seems old before his time.
Uncertain of what the future may hold for her, Harriet agrees to marry Charles even though she is still in love with Vesey, a development that brings us to the end of the first part of the novel.In the second half, we move forward some sixteen or seventeen years – the exact year isn’t clear, but we seem to be in the late 1940s following WW2.
On the face of it, A Game of Hide and Seek is a love story, but I found that it was far more than that.
I absolutely loved the way in which the novel began, with the vivid scene of a hide and seek game.
The social context was marvellous, particularly with regard to the Suffrage Movement, which I am endlessly fascinated by.This is the first novel of Taylor’s which I’ve read, and I found that she presented the human psyche and differing relationships between her characters so well.
The other characters, too, are marvellously drawn.
The reason being that the main male character annoyed me like nothing else.I read on for a bit to see whether I was meant to sympathise with him or not but when it turned out I WAS I couldn't go on.
He undermines the main female character all the time, and is the kind of person who thinks it's somehow interesting to "shock" people with liberal opinions with conservative ones.
If I wanted to read that, I'd just read internet comments by teens who say they like playing the devil's advocate.
I am always amazed at how well Elizabeth Taylor depicts the details of domestic life. With a few deft strokes she conjures up characters and place. Incredibly overlooked in her time, she has been recognized by many younger writers and Virago Modern Classics continues to reprint her books. In addition to this story of the repercussions of a second chance at love, I highly recommend Palladian, In a Summer Season, At Mrs. Lippincote's and A View from the Harbor. And these are just the novels I've read by her...
Beautifully written, but the plot feels uncomfortable and faltering (though not in a good way) because the two lovers at the center of it seem to have no chemistry, like a badly cast movie, which keeps seeming strange because it's a book.
I loved this book. I enjoyed Elizabeth Taylor's observations of time passing and the amusing and touching scene of a couple trying to part with books for a bazaar but finding them hard to part with ! Lovely cover.
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/04/13...
odd, disturbing very abrupt ending. excellently written with compelling characters though who will stay with you, which is my measure of good/great writing.
exquisite writing about Harriet and Vesey. Perfectly captures the mood and setting. Brilliant representation of the dilemma of Harriet's situation and one of the best endings of a novel -ever...
Closer to 4.5. Some of the best of her writing that I've read so far.
I cannot recommend Elizabeth Taylor highly enough. She is flat-out great. This is one of her best, moving, surprising, elegantly paced and beautifully written right up to the last page.
