https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/579143.Scuffy_the_Tugboat
Classic little story in the Little Golden books. The Nephew brought this to be read again. He's going through the Little Golden Books on the shelf. The pictures are quaint. The Tugboat is in over his head and it all turns out alright. It's about jumping into the world. The nephew thought it was ok. He gave it 3 stars.I think it's cute enough.
It is the adorable tugboat, Scuffy, looking like he has eyes and eyebrows, that is familiar to me.
I'm glad it has been loved a long time.The gorgeous cover is bright and expressively happy enough to delight in, just being on display at home, now that all the rest of our boxes of goodies are out for me to enjoy and rekindle with again.
This toddler's story is about a toy tugboat that has an usual chance to explore beyond his home, at a farther distance than ever before.
I love the pages in which Scuffy sails briefly alongside the shore of an ocean, past tugboats like him.
Then there are the ambitious folks like Scuffy, who jump a few feet only to be beaten back to the earth by the gods.
He panics and hopes like hell he can find a way back into that bathtub.
Scuffy's story parallels that of many ambitious people.
I myself work better in calm waters with aspirations of reaching the big sea.
As for the folks who think the ending isn't plausible, I think Scuffy is a book grounded in realism.
Scuffy is a tugboat after my own heart.
A nautical classic on par with the saga of Horatio Hornblower or the seagoing adventures of Ishmael.
Without spoiling the story, Scuffy triumphs and banishes his twisted demons, while still not going so far beyond the pale that he is unable to reconcile with The Man With The Polkadot Tie and his nameless progeny.My book club companion (who is sadly illiterate, owing to her approximately 300-day age)hooted in a satisfied way throughout most of the story, and chewed on several of its corners.
5 stars for an everlasting classic of western literature.
Nicky promises Scuffy a trip to the brook the next day, so he can really see what it feels like to set sail.
Scuffy becomes drowsy and the next thing you know Nicky is letting him loose in the brook on the hill.
But of course, Scuffy's storm predicament leaves no other out for a book of short duration.The lessons are positive ones, of course: the idea of being brave, being curious, following your dreams and overcoming adversity.
Fun little children's book. It's pretty much a requirement to read little Golden Books to your children.
I love Scuffy.
grass isn't always greener, Scuffy.
This is a great book about a little tugboat who thinks he is meant for bigger and better things than just a bathtub.
When he gets his chance to go to those bigger and better places he takes it, but soon finds out that sometimes you are meant to be where you are no matter how much you think you want a change.
Like all the classic Golden Books I can think of, there is a lesson that is taken from this book as well as a fun read.
Great story book to read to an little one for the first time or the millionth time.
I remember reading this as a kid and now am rereading it to my daughter. Follows the story of Scuffy who wants to see the world and has large goals. He discovers the world is far too big and dangerous and chooses to stay with his owners in a comfortable bathtub where he is safe.
Loved this little book as a child. Brought back lots of good memories.
And the moral is: It's better to stay at home in the bathtub than to venture out into the world. I couldn't agree more.
One of my favorite Little Golden Books!
This was the first book I read all the way through by myself when I was learning to read. I still remember how great I felt when I finally got to the last page!
Classic, and brings up nice memories, but has a somewhat disturbing message ("Be happy where you are - the world is big and scary!"
I read it to my daughter and now I read it to her daughter.
Scuffy is a toy tugboat who is not content to spend his days on a toyshelf or in a bathtub.
His owners sense this somehow, place him in a stream one day, and whoosh, off he goes on a journey.
Scuffy manages to float through many obstacles and see all the sights as the stream empties into a river, which finally empties into the ocean.
Scuffy's finally on the adventure that he always felt he was made for!
Why would they make such a long journey to reclaim a toy tugboat whose single goal in life was to get away from his owners?
Scuffy the Tugboat is a tale of appreciation in which a red-painted tugboat has the adventure of his life and learns to value the life he has rather than yearning for “bigger things.” When Scuffy expresses displeasure with his toy store existence, the shop owner suggests that perhaps he would be happier if he went sailing.
This benevolent shop owner takes Scuffy home and places him in a bath tub to sail.
Convinced that he is meant for even bigger things, Scuffy is still not happy, so the shop owner takes him to a brook.
Scuffy is a red toy tugboat with a blue smokestack who doesn’t like sitting in a toy shop.
So the man with the polka dot tie who owns the store takes Scuffy home where his little boy sails him in the bathtub.
But Scuffy doesn’t like being limited to a bathtub either.
I have read reviews of the book which debate whether or not it is “a fear-based warning not to seek anything outside the safest confines life has to offer because the world is dangerous and doesn't notice or care about us.” Some people, especially the world’s cynical intellectuals, seem to feel that they have to analyze everything, including children’s books, from a deep, psychological viewpoint.
Scuffy the tugboat is a lonely toy at the toy store who dreams of achieving "bigger things".
Taken home by a young boy, Scuffy finds himself "setting sail" in the local stream.
Yet as darkness falls, Scuffy becomes afraid and finds himself in other challenges that he must overcome.
Yet the minute the story takes a dark turn, Scuffy wakes up and the reader realizes that it's just a dream.
This book is delightful for young preschool and kindergarten readers as it tells the lessons of not being afraid of exploring the unknown, finding a sense of belonging, and overcoming challenges...lessons often felt daily by the young.
This was one of my favorite books as a child, and I found it at the used bookstore, so of course I had to buy it for the memories!In retrospect, I have no idea why I liked it so much.
I think it was because of the pictures (I particularly liked the picture of the people putting up sandbags in the flood) and because in the end Scuffy discovers the perfect life for him.Can't wait to read it to my own child some day!
I've read this to the kids many times now.
I would use this book across all elementary grade levels to examine writing styles.
I would use the book to introduce a social studies lesson emphasing how the boat travels to different places.
The book also mentions the weather conditions and the jobs the people are doing in those places.
Since the little boy's toy boat begins its travel down a brook which emptied into a river, which emptied into the sea, this book could also be used in the Engage portion of a 5E integrated lesson introducing weather patterns, water cycles, bodies or water, or erosion.
Synopsis: "Meant for “bigger things,” Scuffy the Tugboat sets off to explore the world.
But on his daring adventure Scuffy realizes that home is where he’d rather be, sailing in his bathtub.
For over 50 years, parents and children have cherished this classic Little Golden Book."My Review: Munchkin saw this cover on the back of another golden book and wanted to read it.
The story was a little long and a overly descriptive for short attention spans.
It is a classic story that will remain on our shelves but I doubt we will revisit it often.
That is not to say that the story is bad -- it isn't bad -- it's just that the artwork is better.Scuffy, the toy tugboat, thought he was too big for the toy shelf, so the toy store owner brought him home.
Then Scuffy thought he was too big for the bathtub, so the toy store owner and his son took Scuffy to the brook.
But it was Spring and the brook was in high spirits.
And high-spirited brooks lead to rivers, and rivers lead to the sea.
And toy tugboats are far too small for the sea.So, the story isn't bad.
In an attempt to be a big tugboat, Scuffy leaves behind the man with the polka dot tie and his little boy, sails down a stream, and eventually to a large river. Children will learn key words that could help with lesson planning: wharf, sawmill, sandbags, etc. There are so many things a teacher, or parent, could do with this book, besides enjoying the story, which does have a happy ending, as Scuffy is reunited with the man and the boy and happily sails around the bathtub.The Little Golden Book recording of Scuffy the Tugboat is also really cute.
This is a classic little golden book, that I have not read in a very long time.
It has been around for ages and I remember when it was read to me during story time in elementary school.
When I saw this on the rack I did not think I would enjoy it, surprise I really did.
This little tugboat thinks that he is made for much larger things and sets out for an adventure.
He soon realizes that the life that he had was not so bad.
This is a great book to introduce the little one to the little golden books.
A little tugboat isn't satisfied sitting on the shelf of a toy store. The owner obliges and puts him in his bathtub. That still isn't enough, so he gets dropped in a stream. But Scuffy has great ambitions for his life, and floats downstream in search of a bigger world. Will the world end up being too big for Scuffy?Overall, I think the story is interesting; It has a message that one can relate to, but sometimes it shows it's age. Certain vocabulary words seem either unusual or too advanced for the audience of children.
A fave of mine as a child in the 1950's, and a fave of my own children in the 80's and 90's.
Engaging text with colorful and charming illustrations by Tibor Gergely, the saga of a toy tugboat's journey from bathtub, to rushing brook, to river, to bustling New York harbor, to the brink of the Atlantic, all evoking a 1940's America.
An object lesson in "be careful what you wish for", featuring - for you dramatic device wonks -a deus ex machina at its finest.
"Scuffy" remains in my library in an honored spot on the bookshelf between "Mister Dog" and "The Poky Little Puppy".
** spoiler alert **Scuffy perahu mainan kecil berwarna merah. Meskipun kecil tetapi dia merasa dia hadir untuk hal yang besar. Bathtub bukan tempatnya. Saat dia dimainkan di sungai, Scuffy segera melaju dan tak mau lagi kembali. Jauh dia berpetualang, dari hutan, kampung, kota besar, hingga lautan lepas. Melewati terjangan kayu-kayu yang baru ditebang, banjir besar, juga lalu lintas air yang sangat padat. Di lautan dia tersadar, tak ada awal dan ujung di perairan yang luas itu. Dia pun rindu bathtub nya.Scuffy ingin pulang.
This is a prime example of how a piece of literature can last and have the same impact over generations. I got this as a Christmas gift for my 5-year-old niece, who had never heard of it before, and she absolutely loved it. The description of the town (New England?), the journey from brook to sea, and the subtle lesson about appreciating what's right in front of you are things that never get old. I'm glad to see that it's still in print; here's hoping that it lasts another 70 years.
