https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/360436.Funeral_Games
It is the final book of her Alexander trilogy.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه جولای سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: مراسم تشییع؛ نویسنده: مری (ماری) رنولت؛ مترجم: سهیل سمی؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1383؛ در 471 ص؛ شابک: 9643114406؛ عنوان روی جلد: درگذشت اسکندر و مبارزه بر سر جانشینی اوکتاب سوم از تریلوژی سرگذشت اسکندر مقدونی است؛ جلد نخست این مجموعه با عنوان: اخگر پردیس با ترجمه جناب سهیل سمی؛ و کتاب دوم مجموعه با عنوان: پسر ایرانی؛ با ترجمه روانشاد: ابوالقاسم حالت؛ و نیز با ترجمه: بانو: مهتاب سلطانی راد؛ چاپ شده است.
“I foresee great contests at my funeral games.”Isn’t it funny how Mary Renault ultimately became a sort of historical personage in her own right?
Apparently, poor Anne really did commit adultery with all those men (and boys) who were tortured into confessing.
Her saga of Alexander the Great, begun with Fire from Heaven and continued through The Persian Boy, climaxed with Funeral Games.
(It’s sobering to contemplate how different our modern world might be if he had lived even a few more years.) The plot does not lack for incident.
But the end was worst; large jump in time, summarizing events.Full Review:Alexander the Great is dead (this is not a spoiler), and the various men and even women who knew him (or of him) desperately claw to get on top of the pile and to rule over the massive Empire Alexander carved.At it's most basic, that's exactly what this story is, though there is far more going on that this one sentence cannot get into.I'm sitting here, thinking, and I don't even know how I would begin to do what Renault did.
It was difficult to get into the story in the same way I had with The Persian Boy or Fire From Heaven, when Renault had to sketch the huge cast of characters that pop up over these thirty-seven years and resort to a tiny brushstroke here and there to try and convey much more about these characters.The first half of the book felt much better written than the second half, largely because it spends a lot of time on the immediate aftermath of Alexander’s death, and Renault can lavish more pages on events and developing the characters involved.
(I loved the afterward where Renault points out that she actually left out a ton of the murders.) The only one I noticed was Kleopatra's though because her storyline just stopped after Perdikkas's death.
The worst ones were Roxanne killing the pregnant Strataira and the deaths of Eurydike and Ariadios.
Her storyline was certainly the most well-padded out and engaging.
Renault handled all the chopping and changing of characters really well so that the storylines linked well.
Bagoas at least was left some measure of peace and Ptolemy came out smelling of roses and had the last word which was nice.
So basically everything was terrible and I loved it.
The Alexander the Great trilogy was my first reading of Renault. She does so much with so few words. She's now my second favorite HF author - along side Patrick O'Brian.
Roxane and Olympias have mostly been characterised as ruthless murderous harpies but let's be honest, either of them could've done as good a job or better as any of the men who grasped for power; and Eurydike was mostly lacking age and experience.The whole thing stays pretty brutal all the way through, so I was glad she chose to end on the chapter with Ptolemy; it was a little bit of a breath of relief.
While I very much enjoyed it, the first, Fire from Heaven, was written in such a way that I am sure will deter anyone from reading further into the series.
Subsequent entries into this series are much improved and, while the former always builds on the latter, each feels like it could be read and savoured independently.
The only way I can really describe this is historical Game of Thrones.
The fictional components made the story flow, but it's really the truth of the events that make the book so engaging and satisfying.
It was surprising to me how good this book was.
I'm quite a fan of Alexander as a character, so I thought his absence would be noticed.
In fact, his presence was vivid throughout the book, with every single character reminiscing, mourning, or fuming.
(Speaking of whom, I never thought I'd grow to love someone who founded a ridiculous dynasty of sibling-fuckers this much <3)I desperately want to see this trilogy done right in a show that resembles HBO's Rome.
The only good thing that came from the movie-that-shall-not-be-named is that, in my head, Roxane is Rosario Dawson and Hephaistion is a young Jared Leto with eyeliner
During the first two novels in the Alexander the Great series, Renault inspired awe as she led the readers through Alexander’s extraordinary life, watching the pieces fall together (through missteps, treachery, and pain as well as joy, loyalty, and love), as the dreams of an empire come together.
Overall, I couldn’t connect as well with this novel like I have with her other works, this may have been due to how many characters had to have been introduced or maybe because they were destroying Alexander’s empire which I have come to love.
The final book in Mary Renault's novelization of the life and death of Alexander the Great did give me what I longed for in the second book, the point of view of more of the characters.
I think this trilogy is definitely worth reading, if only to make you more knowledgable about one if history's greatest historical figures, but I would advise taking them on when you are on a real reading binge or are about to study Alexander the Great in college.
Otherwise, although the story and the man's life are unbelievably interesting, you might get a bit bored and give up on them midway through the second book.
While The Persian Boy stopped at the point where Alexander was dying, this book takes off from there.
It's a rollicking ride covering the 47 years after Alexander's death, the infighting, intrigues, conspiracies to get the Macedonian throne.After the first quarter of the book, characters keep dropping dead like flies, killed by rivals through various means or in battlefields.
All that is left at the end is just Ptolemy who wisely chooses the Satrapy of Egypt, fortifies it well, and stays away from Macedonian squabbles.
At the very end only he is left to tell the tale of Alexander.
The rest die, killed conspiratorially by rivals.
A compelling account of the battle for power following the death of Alexander the Great. This is the first Mary Renault I have read and it took me a while to follow the pace of her often stilted writing. Sometimes it read like a translation. Very few of the characters were more than one dimensional but I suppose this is because the story covers such a long period and so there was little time to develop them. Mostly, they didn't live long enough anyway! Despite all this, it's a good read and was quite unputdownable towards the end.
For completists and fans of the period, but less good than the first two.
Poignantly doomed to ignominious failure in a man's world, despite her strong spirit, she, and perhaps Renault, appear to think she could have been an Alexander if only she had been born a boy.Having made a special study of all the ancient sources covering the period in question, it may interest those who share my very high opinion of Renault that Funeral Games is not actually as perfect in historical authenticity as one might expect from her.
It's not my favourite of hers. She needs to cover an awful lot of ground and tie up endless threads. But it is still Mary Renault and it is still amazing. Where is the historical fiction of this time and level these days? Dorothy Dunnett, Mary Renault, and Cecelia Holland -- who else writes like them?
NTS: I own "The Alexander Trilogy," all 3 of the books of this series bound as one eBook.
Three books down the line, (and a little reading around the subject because I have no chilllllll) and I've realised several things:I've realised that Mary Renault's version of Alexander is a very positive one.
I've realised that Mary Renault oh my GOD, she followed what scant knowledge there exists of Alexander's campaign very closely.
I love books like this, I am actually crying a bit right now.
In Funeral Games we switch back to multiple POV's, watching in horror the huge effect Alexander's death had on the people around him.
What I especially loved about Funeral Games is that it is largely about Alexander's women.
Great title.In this book, female characters get much more time and attention than in the other two parts of the trilogy – but that isn’t to say they accomplish much.
The author is clearly annoyed at the lack of reliable male characters to write about: Alexander is dead, Bagoas is half-dead due to Alexander being dead, Ptolemy’s sole ambition is to secure Alexander’s dead body, and others are soon dead.Enter the females.
Well, Eurydike had the potential, but the author firmly dug her heels in and refused to give her any dignity.
I enjoy Renault’s books.
Renault manages to write a female character I can almost enjoy, the bold and ambitious Eurydike, only to spend huge amounts of time showing her being humiliated, betrayed by her feminine upbringing and even, most painfully, her own female body.
However, most of the rest of the book showcases petty, cruel, and/or stupid people blundering their way through life until their inevitable gruesome and painful death is nearly a relief.
It's as if, with Alexander dead and her beloved character Bagoas gone from the story, Renault took great pleasure in writing about how much everyone in the world sucked compared to them.

How right the people who advised me to read Mary Renault were.
Laden with historical detail, the book evoked 4th century BC Greece as I could never have imagined.
Thanks to the titling on my kindle, I mistakenly read this volume next.
No matter - I knew much of the history already, and have now moved on to The Persian Boy.Back to this book.
This is historical fiction at its finest.
It simply doesn't get better than this - at least not in this reasonably well-read person's opinion.
Be sure to read the first two books before this one, however.
I wish the author had added more information at the end about what was historically stated, and what she had to fill in, but this was a fascinating look at how Alexander's empire disintegrated after his death. Deeply depressing, though. The historical equivalent of Hamlet - easier to list the survivors.
A great trilogy but such a sad and murderous ending.The ending made me cry.
Aparte de Demetrio y Eumenes, Plutarco no trata en sus Vidas paralelas a ningún otro de los protagonistas principales de estas guerras, y el relato de Polibio inicia ya terminadas éstas.Entonces encontré el libro El mundo griego después de Alejandro, de Graham Shipley, que trata precisamente sobre este periodo y lo que se sigue hasta la conquista de Roma de todo el ámbito Mediterráneo, y que si bien me dejó mucho más enterada no quedé del todo satisfecha.
My, what an ending!Honestly, this might be the craziest final part of a trilogy that I've ever read!Why I liked this book (spoilers):The plot and action was fantastic!
It was so painful to go from the second and first book, where everyone liked, respected and worked well with one another to this book where the characters were made to be almost unlikeable as they either failed to properly understand Alexander's wishes or completely disregarded them.
To be fair though, I started reading the series with the first book and didn't have the copy of the text that had all of the character's names listed down (with notes on who they were) and a map which tracked the movements of Alexander.
Perdiccas, Roxane, Antipater, Eurydike, Olympias, Cassandros, and others each take their turns on the wheel, driven by his or her own inner furnace, stoked by hunger for power, a sense of destiny, or a lifetime of envy.
And, finally, women are given something to do; after Olympias’s pitiable intriguing in Fire From Heaven and the complete exclusion of women as actual people from The Persian Boy, Renault gives the young, headstrong Eurydike a substantial part on the stage.
And, when the book begins to skip through time in what amounts to a series of epilogues, the ancient and contemplative Ptolemy, the only man who was with Alexander from his birth to his death, gets the final word.
This novel begins with the death of Alexander the Great and follows the chaos and strife that ensues as his generals and relations vie for power and ultimately tear his empire apart.Renault is, as always, a very good writer who has a talent for bringing the remote past to life.
However, I did not enjoy this book as much as Renault's other novels about ancient Greece.
The only significant character who seems to have any sustained success is Ptolemy, who goes off to rule Egypt and stays out of all the other power struggles.
Renault makes the ancient world feel real, and this novel is no exception.
It is also the most brutal and bloodthirsty novel I've read by her.
Not surprising when the prize in these funeral games is a throne.
Tonally this could almost be read as a standalone from Renault's first two novels about Alexander, but it helps a lot to know the background history.
This novel would be twice as long if it had to explain all of the background history that undergirds this novel, freed from the restraining hand of Alexander.
Masterful! I enjoyed this book from begining to end. Again, this is an accurate and beautifully constructed historical account of the succession wars that followed Alexander the Great's unexpected death, but most importantly, it is an honest depiction of human nature: Renault has the sensitivity to capture the essence of all her characters to show them at their best and at their worst without making a caricature out of any of them.This novel is so rich in every single aspect that I want to read it again already. I wish more books were like this...
