https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119838.Tears_of_a_Tiger
It’s about a boy who blames himself for the death of his best friend after a basketball game.
I Loved the plot of the story because it was realistic and their was no story book ending.
It also was an easy book to relate to because it deals with the normal things of a teenager living in violent Philadelphia.
I love the way the author tells the story.
Finally, I loved the book because it was easy to relate to.
To conclude, this is a very good book and I would recommend it to all teenagers to read.
The book is very engaging, especially the way the Author writes.
This concerns Andy, who is trying to overcome depression in the aftermath of a terrible car accident that claimed the life of his best friend.
Andy was driving drunk, and while he escaped unscathed, his best friend was trapped in the wreckage and burned to death.I'm not hugely enthusiastic about this novel.
You know, "As you know, Dr. Smith, the thingenometer receives waves from the ploozlewhatsit, and..."Still, I think the book would be great to recommend to relunctant readers, since it's almost like a movie script or something, and looks very non-intimidating on the page.
I'm curious to see whether they will share my opinion, which is that I feel like the author is trying too hard to sound like a street kid.I don't think she necessarily got any slang incorrect--it's just that it didn't ring true for me.
My experience with kids who talk like that, with that terrible grammar--"she be tripping!", for example--is that their conversations are liberally sprinkled with profanity.
I feel like there is a real possibility that they will also think Draper is trying too hard.
This story really is told in a cool way because it incorporates all different genres. It begins with a newspaper article saying that a high school student was killed while his friend was driving drunk the night before. Then the author uses conversations, letters, journals, homework assignments to talk about how the driver (Andy) how his friends either cope and heal or drown in grief. I really enjoyed Tears of a Tiger and thought it gave a good perspective of what life is like for teens after such a horrible tragedy.
This book was about a boy named Andy, trying to live through life normally the way when his best friend was still alive. His best friend died in Andy's car while it was burning up in to flames. Things might of been better for Andy if he didn't see his best friends death, but now he has to forget about the past, and live his present while it lasts for a while.
Got it.Andy, our main man here, was driving under the influence with three of his buddies (alcohol amiright?), one of them dies as a result of their carelessness (this guy is named Rob, although I pretty much forgot about him whilst reading), Andy suffers from depression (because he was the driver that killed his best bud), he eventually kills himself around 20 pages before the book ends.There.I just told you the whole premise of this book.I hate the glorification of suicide.
Just to make it clear, this book isn't even the right way to present suicide period.
This book really sparked my attention as soon as I read the back.
Something really interesting about this book is that it gives different aspects on the main characters.
What I mean by that is, you will see different characters’s letters and reports.
Another thing that's very interesting about Tears of A Tiger is that the antagonist isn't a human-being instead it's a internal force.
In most cases the antagonist is an external force instead of a internal which makes this book more engaging.
Moreover, Tear of A Tiger is very exciting book.
This book is definitely a must!
I definitely give this book 5 stars!
I'd LOVE to read an updated version of this book (written pre cell phone era). Kids may have trouble "connecting." Good writing style - love the different formats in ea chapter. Good message about how news to ask for help. Good story - just needs an update.
It is a raw, honest look at the possible outcomes of what happens when adolescents make terrible decisions.
Many young adults say that they would never put themselves in a situation such as 17 year old Andrew Jackson, basketball prodigy and scholarship athlete.
Sometimes young adults do succumb to peer pressure to drink alcohol when they are not ready.
Sometimes young adults do drink and then try to drive.
This is a story about what can happen when terrible decisions are made.
Because this novel deals with mature themes such as drinking, depression and suicide I recommend for more mature readers.
3.5 rounded up
This book is one of my favorites. It’s so emotional and just powerful. I haven’t read it in years but I could never forget it. Will definitely be picking it up soon.
A fast read. Probably best for the 10-14 age group. Touches on issues like driving under the influence, depression, suicide, etc
Touchy subjects in this book. Glad I picked it up and read it. Good insight into the minds of teenagers, some striving to succeed, others not so sure about the future. Will recommend this to some of my students.
Going into this novel I was very weary for the fact being that I was always one for sad-romance, but this book didn't fail to leave me in tears a few times.
The novel branches off of this idea and the reader is able to see how the decisions of a few high school teens affects everyone around them.
Tears of a Tiger was good for showing how the decisions we make today do affect the lives of those around us; even the lives we fail to acknowledge or the lives that we think would be better off without us.
Andy, Keshia, Rhonda, and Robby the main characters in my opinion.
Rhonda is the girlfriend of Tyrone and help Keshia out along the way.
But unfortunately Robby was killed in a car crash with his friends Andy, BJ, Tyrone, and Gerald.
In the beginning Andy, Robby, Tyrone, Gerald, and BJ went for a drive drunk and crashed on the highway, everyone made it our of the car before it went up in flames but weren't able to get there friend Robby out.
Andy's problem was depression and the way he solved his depression was to commit suicide, he ran away from his problem instead of bringing strong and facing them.
However, in the mean time Rhonda goes to his house after school to give Andy homework of the missing days but when she shows up, Andy’s mother and brother Monty were walking up around the same time..
I feel like Andy falls in victim to the no one understands me or real men don't show vulnerability mind set and which is a lie because everyone shows vulnerability, and it just so happen to be Andy’s bad struggle.The message has a strong meaning to it don't drink and drive, don't be afraid to look vulnerable and get help.
that night andy jackson, the main character of the book was driving intoxicated and got into a bad wreck, killing one of his best friends/ teammate robert washington.
throughout the book you can still tell how it is killing him inside and he doesn't really talk much how he feels unless its to his therapist or his girlfriend.
so he loses one of the people he talks too and when there was no one else to talk to he tries to call up his therapist but he was unavailable do to a family emergency so andy feels lost and didn't know what to do.
One of their buddies ends up dying, Robert Washington, and the protagonist of Tears of a Tiger, Andrew Jackson blames himself for his best friend's death, especially since he was the one behind the weel.The story goes of Andrew's overwhelming guilt and his attempt to cope with the blame and depression.
Though he fakes it, he cant help but feel down all the time and eventually ends up committing suicide once he realizes he's lost everything hes really cared for...atleast he thought.While reading this book, i learned that even if you talk about your past and what you feel guilty for, especially with a specialist within that area, it doesnt necessarily mean that the feeling will go away.
The book Tears of a Tiger, by Sharon M.Draper is about student-athletes from the Hazelwood High School Tigers basketball team who celebrate a big win by drinking while driving,that leads to the death of a teammate and also basketball team captain, Robert Washington.
This book incorporates all different genres, first by starting off with a newspaper article saying a highschool student from Hazelwood High School had died in a fiery car accident.
Overall I think this is a good book.
I was one of the captains for my high school soccer team, but we didn’t celebrate a victory by getting drunk.
Andy then goes on trying to live with the guilt of the accident and he even begins to contemplate suicide.This books connects to real life because it includes everyday problems that most young adults seem to have.
Trying to determine what each slang word meant made it a kind of annoying book to read.I would recommend this book to young adults who know how control their feelings because the context of this story can teach you valuable lessons.
I would not recommend reading this book when you are around other people because it may cause you to cry.
Andy (one of the four basketball players) discusses to one of his good friends about the cold brew that he left in his trunk and how much fun they were going to have.
I feel like if you are looking for a book that is going to be straight to the point and you will understand the concept or purpose of the book that this isn’t the book for you.
A car accident occurs and Andy's best friend, Robert died while everyone else survived.
He stopped talking to his friends and family and felt so guilty because he thought he caused Robert's death.
Andy felt like nothing could save him and decided to take his own life.When I read the first few chapters of this book, I already got caught up into the book.
Andy is like the actor because they both blame themselves that someone close to them died even though it's not their fault.
This was a great book that's worth the time to read.
This book is about a boy named Andrew who has driven his friends partying while drunk and had crash all of the boys got out except for one.......Robert......,..
But Andrew took the pain the most he had felt a lot of depression, pain, and sadness.
After this all of his friends felt even more sad not just from one death but two they all were mad because he wouldn't even ask for help or tell them.
He felt so much sadness that he had no older brother to help him in life.
Alright, So this book is good, for what it is.
That being said, the quality of writing leaves something to be desired.
It also is what kept me reading.Another great part of the book, is that it does focus on African American students, which is rarely done in a book like this, at least from what I have perceived.That being said, everyone is kinda racist in the book, and I think that is a bit harsh.
You may not care for the book, but it seems to be worth a read.
I just wish it was done a bit more quality.
Andy Jackson and three other friends had just won an important basketball game at their local high school.
They had started drinking, every body except for B.J. who had never drunk in his life.
Three of the boys get out, but Robert Washington caption of the Hazelwood basket ball squad, Andy's best friend is pinned inside of the car.
The gas tank bursts with Robert still inside the car and he burns to death.
Now, months later, Andy can't stop blaming himself for Robert’s death.
One night Andy starts thinking about suicide and he can't get hold of any body to talk to.
This can be a very powerful book for the right reader.
The most powerful part for me was the very end, Monty's letter to Andy.
Monty is Andy's 6 year old little brother and that letter (along with the others at the end) showed a pretty wide range of emotions between the friends and between the young people.
I'd say besides Monty's ending letter, Keisha and her input was pretty powerful also.
I think this probably makes a great book for a young reluctant reader too.
hr tries talking to a friend going to a theropis and still he can not get over it.
then something happens with his girl friend and then he tries to get even more help but he can't.
later on in this book he does something terribley wrong.This connects to me because i once had the same thing happen to me.
He got alot going on right now and he cannot just deal with it.
I have alot going on and i can't deal with it.
I would reccomennd this book to people who have alot going on in their lives.
I have school age kids...
Like Andy would have had to change schools.
I think he would have gotten prison time so I think our judicial system has possibly changed to a much more "punishing" mode with kids.I also think the kids would have made his life so miserable he would have wanted to get out of the school.I just had such a hard time with no one having a hard time with the fact he had been drinking and driving WELL below the US legal drinking age of 21.
I had a hard time getting into this book.
Although I didn't have any distractions, the novel still was hard for me to like.
But what really got me was how incredibly racist this book was.
EVERY black character talked ghetto and uneducated, when one of the key parts of this book was about how black equality.
In fact, I felt Andy was whiny and flat throughout the book and I wish the author focused more on B.J.'s life.
I read this book with my freshmen for the first time this year. We definitely didn't like it as much as  , but the kids liked it enough to ask if there was another book that comes after it. The book is about a depressed teenager who accidentally killed his friend. The book was ok. The characters are somewhat flat, the plot is predictable, and the author gave too many unnecessary details at times. But the kids liked it, so I will probably read it again next year :)
