https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52588.Cunt
i was reading this book and a middle-aged woman, accompanied by her husband, on the subway, asked me (timidly) what I was reading. I smiled and shrugged and flashed her the cover. She giggled. "I saw the title of the chapter," she said. I flipped back a few pages to see what the title of the chapter was. In big, bold print I saw it: "Blood and Cunts." I giggled. The middle aged woman giggled. Together, we giggled. For the sake of interactions like this, everyone should read this book in public, all the time.
It's largely viewed as women who have nothing better to do with their lives than whine and complain about something and draw attention to themselves.As I read this book I noticed that yes, the aggressiveness is indeed part of it.
It seems to help along the 'ew, gross' attitude guys grow up with when it comes to certain aspects of the female body.The book also has an interesting take on a word that many are either uncomfortable with or totally opposed to.
She says it isn't empowering for women to take the Pill (and poison your uterus, apparently), but it's exactly the opposite: that by taking the Pill, you're relinquishing all your power, giving it to The Men.I dunno, this is the kind of radical feminism I can't get behind.
But I guess I believe this because I see feminism as raising women's power to be equal to that of men, whereas it seems that Inga wants women to rule the world.
Perhaps this would be more geared towards the more radical feminists.Also, fun parts that made me rage super hard:- Inga doesn't believe in medicine or doctors.
First, I am about to teach Lady Chatterly's Lover for the first time, and I thought any book that makes the case for widespread use of "cunt" was an important bit of prep for D.H. Lawrence's infamous classic.
Instead, there was nothing in Cunt that I could use in my class, an unreliable and disappointingly skeletal etymology, and little for my daughters that wasn't written by someone other than Inga Muscio.
In fact, most of the interesting bits of Inga Muscio's book were from much better writers and thinkers (Ursula K.
Huh?She says that women will never have any power or respect in society until we treat whores with the respect that they deserve, because they are the priestesses of the goddess and they have the most important job in the world.
Men are scared of women's sexuality because it's the most powerful goddess-like thing in the world, and they're so scared they try to dominate it, underplay it, and teach little girls to hate their cunts.She complains that Valerie Solana's SCUM Manifesto is exactly what Aristotle thought about women centuries ago, but Aristotle is admired in society today, while Solanas died homeless...
After reading this book, I would often brag to girl friends of mine that I probably knew more about their vaginas than they did.
As some of the material in this book is coming closer to common knowledge for more informed females of this century, it may be more important for males to read this book, although there are definitely tidbits that females will be surprised by.
Want to be entertained through a unique and thorough view of a extremely common subject, look no further than your lap...
where this exciting book by Inga Muscio should be...
However, what kept me from truly enjoying this book and recommending it as a good feminist read is that it is written with such vitriol and in such inflammatory language that it became hard to relate with many times.
I recall when I read Muscio's near exaltation of Aileen Wuornos as a kind of feminist folk hero, I truly balked.
While I think the intensity and rage at a patriarchal system resonates with a lot of women (including me), the extremism of this book really put me off and distracted me from all of the valid points that Muscio makes.
When I was young I saw on the evening news, a woman, some jogger in New York Central Park, was accosted, and they interviewed her from her hospital bed.
The attacker had a knife, she was cut up pretty good, but they were all defensive wounds - she fought her attacker off.
She was more pissed off that anyone would assume they could get the better of her, than the knife wounds and many bandages.
I would have also loved if Inga did some hardcore research into the word 'cunt' (with some cited references), and gave us a more thorough linguistic history, instead of the general listing of bygone cultures.
Muscio's book deals with both the word "cunt" and the body part it has come to represent.
She spends a short time explaining some of the word's origins and how it came to be so reviled, then launches into multiple chapters on cunts themselves: what they are, how they work, how they have been abused, and what women can do to ensure their respect.
I want you to read this book so you feel inspired (or at least shaken up in some way), too.
But seriously, folks...the V word, which is the medical and socially acceptable term for said Anatomical Jewel, originally meant "a sheath for a sword".Ask yourselves, my fellow beings with Double X chromosomes....is that how we want to define ourselves?
As Muscio would say, I ain't no sheath.C*** is a comprehensive analysis and meditation upon both the word that offends people so much, and what the author calls "The Anatomical Jewel".
I highly recommend C...but if you plan to read it in public you might want to get or make a book cover for it!
I pulled a stack of Cunts out of the box and asked the older, more conservative gentleman that I was working alongside a question about...where the book went or something, I can't remember exactly.
He promptly gathered the Cunts up and said "This is what we do with books like this" and dumped them in a box of books to be returned to the publisher.
He said they were inappropriate, we couldn't shelve them.
Having said that all that, I actually only read part of this book, I thought it was a little lame and I'm tired of people trying to "reclaim" words.
Warning: This book is pretty vulgar. I suppose the title could have tipped you off. Oddly, I expected a more academic book. A look at the word its history and its affect on our society. Muscio is anything but academic. She is an artist, and the book is filled with personal anecdotes and her thoughts on life. There is no stuffy distance between her and her writing. Her approbation of menstrual blood made me uncomfortable (she enjoys watching it splash to the floor). Her retelling of her 3 abortio
I suppose the title could have tipped you off.
Oddly, I expected a more academic book.
She is an artist, and the book is filled with personal anecdotes and her thoughts on life.
There is no stuffy distance between her and her writing.
All of us are affected by the extremely violent subjugation that is rape.
Same for spousal abuse, or any act of violence against women.
If all women united in this, who would be hiding in shame?
This book helped me see some of the sexism that still lingers in our society.
The doublethink required to call women out to become predators instead of victims and then turn around and talk about the groovy, all encompassing goddess-hood of who-in-the-where-now really turned me off.Also, while I hope it does not affect my rational judgment of the argument presented, it is difficult for me to read a book so--artfully phrased.
"Words be powerful," Muscio says early on in the book.
Except it makes me focus on trying not to write an essay on the importance of verb tense instead of reviewing her book.
I feel like it's widely understood that a man who sees the rape of his mother, lover, daughter etc as primarily a violation of his rights is not an ally to feminists or women in general.
But that doesn't mean that it's okay to talk about them in a way that centres only my feelings and renders the woman who actually experienced that violence a cipher -- a metaphor, a "holy place", not even a person.
if I ever, ever write a paragraph like the one above, take away my keyboard for good.
And oh my, does it ever rub my cunt the wrong way when people, women especially, tell me there is no longer a place in society for radical feminism.
When I think of all the ways women still struggle for equality, I can’t argue against Cunt‘s solid position on essential feminist reading lists.If you have a cunt, read this book.
If you don’t have a cunt, read this book to gain a better understanding of your friends, relatives, and lovers who have cunts.
I look forward to reading Muscio’s latest, Rose: Love in Violent Times, which was released last year.
Her inclusivity of more people on the margins (or on the margins of the margins) as well as many added comments on the need for alternative news sources and an examination of the widespread nature of abuse in American society mirrors my own evolution of thought and experience.The original text is still a good read, and even though some of it is not always logical or sometimes ventures into impractical ideals veering astray into lost woods, it still contains many important nuggets for everyone to consider about themselves and their relation to our society.
Re-visiting this one as a few young women I know are headed off for college.
I read it in the early aughts and it is now required reading in most Women's Studies programs/classes.
Inga is at her strongest and most convincing when she explores rape and its consequences.More importantly, I had forgotten how * fantastic * the reading lists are in Cunt.
I would argue that the lists are the best part of the book.
The fact that Inga led me to start reading Francesca Lia Block and Jeanette Winterson, PLUS I Shock Myself: The Autobiography of Beatrice Wood and Loretta Lynn: Coal Miner's Daughter makes me forgive some of the clunky prose and vitriolic rants.
After careful consideration, I narrowed down my dislike for this book into three categories: Muscio's harmful and misleading pseudoscientific claims, her hatred of men, and her writing style.So let's break it down.
The imagery of a happy little embryo plopping on a floor followed by Muscio's ecstatic assertion that this is nothing less than the magic of her inner goddess doesn't help matters.Second on the list of reasons why I don't like this book is Muscio's hatred of men.
When actresses like Shailene Woodley come out and say that they aren't feminists because they love men, it shows a complete misunderstanding of what feminism is about, and I want to make it clear that I know this.
That kind of stuff bothers me a lot, because while I am all for marginalized groups borrowing from each other as long as there's an acknowledgement of it being done (Eddie on Fresh Off the Boat listening to rap, for example), I am not for white people taking language and phrases and assuming everything is just THEIRS, especially when the person in question is a white woman claiming to be all for intersectional feminism.
And the thing is, it's great if you want to support businesses run by women, but you cannot act as if men don't exist.
While I mostly always enjoyed reading the book itself, I more often than not found myself shaking my head or pursing my lips and sitting there and really thinking about what point Muscio brought up and offered to readers, and where I stood on it (quite often, I couldn't have been further from complete agreement with her).Which, really, I think was the whole point of the book in the first place.
I think cooperation is what's going to improve everything Muscio was dissatisfied with in Cunt.All in all, it was still a very enjoyable read.
Among other radical ideas, she encourages women to support eacher other with the power of their money and to storm out of movies with "violently eroticized" rape scenes and demand a refund.
This work is highly personal; it is one young writer's book length "womanifesto." (The front cover boldly pronounces it "a declaration of independence.") The book's most positive aspect is that Muscio encourages every female to compose her own "womanifesto," be it written, spoken, painted, sung, danced, sewn, or otherwise stated.To many women, most of the ideas asserted here are nothing new.
I have the habit of giving my sister books I think she should read instead of whatever she's actually asked for on normal present-giving holidays. This started with "The Perks of Being a Wallflower", but crossed into more intimate territory with Cunt. I wrote her a note in the cover and gave it to her. She loved it. She wrote a note in the cover and gave it to her friend. I hope the book keeps passing from hand to hand this way. I hope a copy finds you.I've watched the moon daily since reading this book.
i think everybody in the world should read this book.
a straightforward look at how women have been treated through the ages, and how we live our lives in the present day.
it opened my mind to issues i am immersed in everyday but continue to take for granted.
this book helped me love myself just a little bit more, respect my sisters successes and failures, and to finally come to terms with my mothers raising.
if only we could all live in world with more cuntlove in our hearts.
a book for anyone with a mother, grandmother, sister, girlfriend, or daughter.a work of masterpiece.
I know a lot of people who loved this book, so maybe I just missed something. I hated reading it because the chick wrote in a way that made it seem like she was the first person to ever come up with any of the points that she made. It was very boring.
I more or less went down on my knees and begged Inga not to do it, but some people are inherently self-destructive.
If only they had this book growing up....things may not be different for society and its sexist ways, but at least these women would ave had a chance at being liberated from the psychological shackles that men have applied over the centuries.As a woman, please get past the title, absorb it and take it back, and bathe in the wisdom and liberation offered here.
We need to re-educate men who treat women as property and disposable squishy things that they can pump their seed into and then ignore them and move on.
What becomes really obvious when reading 'Cunt' is that is a book written by a woman for other women.
Despite the added chapter, I'm still not quite pleased with how she addressed this problem.I have a lot more issues with her book, but her need to seperate the male from the female and vice versa was the one thing that irked me the most.
Believe it or not, but I learned a lot about the female genitalia school did not teach me and thanks to Muscio I stopped using the term 'vagina' and am instead using 'cunt' and I might even start keeping track of the lunar calendar.
What I appreciated most about this book was the afterward, updated several years after the initial publication, and reflecting much maturity.
For me it was by far the best part of the book, and we see how the author has broadened her scopes and become less reliant on unnecessary crutches (excessive use of 'cuntified' vernacular, cutesy segues...)My biggest complaint with this book is what I felt was a dismissive presentation of 'whoredom' (class and societal pressures that inform the decision to enter into sexual prostitution).
I felt the primacy she gave towards the sex-goddess slant was unbalanced and immature.All that said, it was a book that prompted thought, discussion and action, and continues to do so, and that is always good.
But once I got to the second chapter and I noticed words and phrases like "the anatomical jewel," "Goddess," and "womanifesto," and discussing her friends who had names like "Panacea," I knew this was going to be one of Those Books.Muscio doesn't believe in doctors or medicine.
"Well you aren't a true feminist."Muscio also completely forgets about transwomen in the first edition of her book - she tacks the issue of transgender identity and gender fluidity in the afterword of her second edition, which almost sounds to me like "Oops!
“Cunt” kelimesi, erkek-kadın fark etmeksizin herkesi inanılmaz rahatsız eden bir kelime İngilizce’de.
“Feministim” diyenler arasında da, demeyenler arasında da bu olgunun aslında kadın-erkek eşitliğini savunduğunu anlamayanlar var.
Erkeklerin kadınları ezmesine karşı olan, eşitliği savunan, kadınların kendi haklarını koruması gerektiğini vurgulayan bir agresiflik.
Ki bence feministlik, kadın-erkek eşitliğiyle sınırlı olan bir şey de değil: hangi renkten, ırktan, dinden, toplumdan olursa olsun hepimizin bu dünyanın vatandaşları olduğunu ve eşit olmamız gerektiğini açıklamaya çalışan bir kelime.Cunt, kelimenin anlamının zaman içerisinde nasıl değiştiğinden başlayarak okullarda seks eğitimine kadar pek çok konuya değiniyor.
