https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4954.You_Shall_Know_Our_Velocity_
A second aside in the form of a continuation needed to wrap up the Introduction The third manner I choose my books is with a masochistic zeal to read new books by authors who I disliked to the point to ranting continually about them for weeks in order to a) confirm my suspicions, or b) make me look like an open minded kind of person who can re-encounter a previously disliked author and find enjoyment in their work.
But as much as I'd like to resist it, I am a fiddle and this book played me.
This idea that every moment that you arent experiencing something new you are wasting your life....I know that isn't true, but I feel it too sometimes.
Plus it really goes to the core of how it feels to be a relatively priviledged person today, who knows that he should be trying to help less fortunate people, but has absolutely no idea how to really go about doing that.
A great book.
Is nothing working out for you?
Did you experience a personal loss that you found painful?
You must be the first person ever to feel pain!
Ok, that works (pbbbbttttt).
Do you find things in normal everyday life hard to take, Holden Caulfield?
Do you want to share with us experiences of things you find to be incredible and sad?
I really dispised this book.
But instead I found the book to be cliched and totally inundated with bad sentimentality.
The cover of this book was really cool.
And the back of the book reads, "$32,000 must be given away in a week, around the world.
Then, this edition of the book includes a chapter added by "Hand," written after the trip and Will's subsequent death in Mexico in which he comments on the novel and the many inaccuracies.
As much as Will and Hand thought they were changing lives, the actual people -- paupers in poor countries -- do not understand the largeness and impact of money.
Money is important -- to people in Senegal -- because it buys food and water.
I don't really understand what it is with male writers that makes them want so badly to write these books about disillusioned young men who are basically losers.
I don't know I just have a problem with characters in books who are clearly losers and have clearly done nothing with their lives and then go about philosophizing about how life is meaningless and how there is so much pain and suffering blah blah blah.
I got the distinct feeling from this book that Jack was the only one who had made anything of himself.
The story was actually an intriguing and humorous concept, punctuated by Will’s angst, the origins of which remain (irritatingly) mysterious.The middle section is Hand’s explication of Will’s story, and it’s exactly 50 pages, bringing in a lot of meta-fictional elements such as his talking about the story as if it were a history of a real trip, which Will (before his death) had fictionalized to some extent, which Hand does not understand or approve of, when their original intent had been to create a “Performance Literature” piece.
Before I get into the story of this book, and what I thought about it, I have to start with this.
I think I probably finished the book because of that wonderful paper it is made of.
With paper like this, how can I even consider going on to electronic books?
so many unplanned flights, oh, and the money, it's such an important element in the story, and that gets a little old.
Give away money, travel to as many places as possible and just give it away.
And is that, in your opinion all that your story needs?But I love that paper!!
AWAY WE GO2 simpatici amici ,Will* e Hand** ,decidono di partire,così, senza stare a fare troppi programmi(che poi sono i viaggi migliori)a disposizione solo una settimana di tempo,per uno strampalato viaggio(quasi)intorno al mondo.Il loro è ,piu' che altro ,un piombare a razzo in un posto,per poi schizzare subito via,a prendere un altro aereo,a macinare altri km in macchine a nolo,e così via...L'idea di Will è semplice: muoversi di continuo ,accelerare più che si può,perché solo in questo modo gli pare possibile tentare di battere in velocita'(e lasciarsi alle spalle)il dolore straziante ,la rabbia e tutti i pensieri orrendi che lo torturano (incessantemente)da mesi.* Will è uno dei parlatori piu' lenti che si possano incontrare, ma con una testa- quando non è presa in prestito da chissà chi- che saetta e turbina** Hand è uno che è costantemente preda di una insaziabile curiosità ,che gli fa estendere le sue vibratili antenne su ogni cosa, dalle scienze esatte alle donne sensibili e ingenue (capito,no?)PS.Will ,tutto ammaccato (fuori e dentro)ispira continuamente tenerezza e un senso di protezione,e Hand(che tipo!)ispira anche lui,sì...quantomeno simpatiche domande:ma che razza di passo è -si può sapere?
I’m glad I read this although I had conflicting opinions all throughout the book.The writing is unique and interesting and Eggers clearly has a powerful gift with words.
I loved the journey they took, and the juxtaposition Eggers creates between their being both constrained and liberated in their travels.
Will is a mountain but moved like the wind and in such a way that almost made me feel like I could do that...just drive to an airport and in a moment's notice take a journey across the world without any regard to the destination.
This is a fault I'm finding in a lot of contemporary writers like Michael Chabon and David Foster Wallace; as gifted as they are, they seem to lose their focus in the enjoyment of hearing/reading themselves.
Wallace is particularly bad at this (I don't care how many people loved, luffed, lurved Infinite Jest, that book and all its gratuitous endnotes makes me want to dent my desk with my forehead).
There were some genuinely lovely parts of this book that make we waffle over the star rating--I really wanted to like Velocity--but overall I'm left pretty ambivalent.
A strange one for me. I was bored, then intrigued, then bored again, then excited, then disappointed. I didn't like the the narrator or his sidekick who were 27 but came across like 12 year old boys. The Boo Hoo factor was pretty forced. But I loved a few sections. So there. I do like how the 3 Eggers books I've read as of this moment have had very distinct vibes. He's definitely someone I'll keep reading.
The blurbs say this is a story about a couple of guys who travel around the world in order to give away $32,000 in one week.
So my expectations centered around expecting them to be running toward something, when in reality they are doing nothing but running from.The narrator is Will, who is traveling with his lifelong friend Hand.
Like Will and Hand, I was left wondering what it means for Americans to come into a "poor" country and give away money.The theme of mortality manifests as lost time.
This book is awesome, especially if you enjoy traveling in obscure countries and dissecting ridiculous adventures for meaning.
I liked this book significantly more than "A Heartbreaking Work..." (which was a fun read nonetheless).
Admittedly, the reading experience was part of it -- I read it while lounging in Dutch coffeeshops during my final days of studying in Leiden, and world travel was a much-explored and romanticized theme for me -- but the characters are quirky and fascinating and the cameo appearances by random hilarious foreign fools in Senegal, Estonia and the like are not to be missed.The illustrious Hand makes a later appearance in "How We Are Hungry," Eggers' book of short stories, in a story about surfing in Costa Rica where the horses have no symbolic significance.
The thing I remember most strongly about this book is just toodling along, minding my own business, and then boom! pow! meta! mmmmmmmetametametameta! META!. Did Dave Eggers invent meta? For me, he invented meta. And no one, before or after or since or whenever, will come close to giving me that gasping shocked awe. Fuck off, haters; I love him so so so.
Though, on the basis of cosmic ordering infomercials featuring Noel Edmonds, and Kirsty and Phil's Pickfords porn, who could blame you?You Shall Know Our Velocity isn't a tale of taking out a 120% mortgage to set up a personal shopping business with your very own branded Smart car, but it's nonetheless possessed by the spirit of that time, as Will and his mate Hand go on a short unplanned world tour to give away $40,000 he earned for unintentionally being featured in an advert.Random nights out with insalubrious Russians, taping dollars to African donkeys, and other such madcap antics, interspersed with raw ponderings on the death of a friend and the aftermath of trauma almost can't help but sound when described in summary in 2012, like the InstaHipstaMatic polaroid cliche that launched a thousand blogs.But actually, it's amazing because of the ten-years-ago-or-more unknowing innocence and because no-one can describe dark elated adventure quite like Eggers.
There are good writers who can capture the feeling of a time and place in aspic.
For once.I’m half-way through the book and thus far, aside from traveling to a few countries and trying to tape money on goats (I’m pretty sure it was goats), nothing has happened.
You Shall Know Our Velocity is going nowhere as far as I can see and I’m having the hardest time talking myself into reading it.In fact, I’ve started a different book in the meantime that is very engaging and brilliantly written (the review to that will come soon).
The incentives to finish You Shall Know Our Velocity simply are not there.I think I’m going to give up on it.
The follow up to Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius falls short because it is much too dark, and the wit of random depressed thoughts by the main character do not feel genuine but contrived.
The book talks about two friends who have inherited money and are determined to visit some of the world’s poorest countries like Senegal and Morocco to give it away in person.
The prolonged inners thoughts of Will are meant to explain his strange motivations, but leave the reader guessing what is really wrong with the guy.
While the book is easy enough to get through it left me feeling like I hadn’t really gained anything from reading it.
Legitimately, probably the worst novel I've ever read. Neither interesting nor intellectually intriguing, it seems Eggers debut novel was meant to satisfy nothing more than his public posture.  Take a deep breath all you uninteresting white males: your story is not unique, your suffering is not beautiful. You are a selfish asshole, just like everyone else, yet without fail an infinite number of these "cerebral" authors sublimate their own perceived struggles into meaningless, emotionless, and r
You are a selfish asshole, just like everyone else, yet without fail an infinite number of these "cerebral" authors sublimate their own perceived struggles into meaningless, emotionless, and reprehensible characters, all of which are drawn with the heaviest of hands.
At the wheel, the author spins for character, occupation, plot, and obscure friend with strange name.
This novel is so incredibly selfish that it would have read no differently if the locations were set entirely on American soil.
Generally when I encounter something as poorly constructed as this novel, I let it speak for itself:	"Hand, it's what we did to that cow."	"Will.
This does absolutely nothing to further the plot.There are some truly beautiful moments in the book, and if the reader has ever lost someone close to them suddenly, can certainly relate.But (and this is my personal belief) when I read a book, when I have finished I ask myself the question "What was the point?" What was the point of the story, what point does the author want to make.
Though I think this is still an important book to read because I think Eggers really is documenting this generation, and the problem isn't in his writing, it's in society.
The going later became so tedious, in fact, that I considered not finishing.The first problem was that the two main characters continually behave in a way that defies common sense so drastically that I felt physically uncomfortable.
Throughout the narrative he describes the shocked reactions of people when they see his still-battered face, and quite clearly the lingering emotional pain is worse yet.But when the other main character later steps in to add his perspective, he tells us there WAS no third friend, and no beating.
. But my sense is that it's by and for a generation other than mine, and so three stars for it is a stretch.
In short he is 80K richer and hasn't figured out what to do with all the money also he got "the shit kicked out of him by three guys in a storage garage" a few days back (all of this is revealed bit by bit as Will narrates the story in a neurotic fashion), Will is a philosopher of sorts and carries on imaginary conversations with himself and the people in front of him, these take the form of debates in his head and Will describes his mind as a "hummingbird" shooting this way and that between opposing views searching for truth and certainty.
I read the book, read the reviews, found out that I completely missed what I think was a major plot point.
I then realized that the version of the book I read was later revised, with an additional segment, with the major plot point.
I'm not sure I understood what Will and Hand stood for, since not much of their actions have a background, not much explanation, except for the one the major plot point overturns.
There's sex on offer in several places, they take none.
Dave Eggers writes beautifully, yet his novel never seems to inspire any connection between the reader and the characters.
The plot line seemed familiar, two young men, without plans traveling the world.
The two remaining friends, the main Character who hasn't done much with his life and Hand, a good looking, risk taking, non motivated individual decide to give away a large sum of cash that the main character has acquired.
They choose to do this overseas without any set goal or plans.
Of course, interesting situations arise and the book keeps the reader entertained.
Neither of the places visited or the people met or the characters makes the reader care too much about any of it.
così così è troppo poco, bello è troppo. Discreto, piacevole, strampalato assai, sicuramente non così così!
Joanna (and her sister) read it and thought it was "a heartbreaking work of staggering genius." The story was then (apparently) re-worked into a novel, in which form I read it.
He has his finger so firmly on the pulse of humanity that sometimes I have to just stop reading and think and absorb the genius of it all.The moment I knew that I loved William Shakespeare I was sitting in a very dark theater watching a local production of As You Like It during my freshman year of college.
Perhaps, given Eggers' background, it's not a surprise, and I think he touches on these issues with realism and sensitivity.To escape this grief - or, perhaps, to address it - the friends choose to fly around the world giving complete strangers bits of an absurd $32,000 windfall they recently acquired.
There were bits where I genuinely felt Eggers really hit on a fantastic idea - a hilarious negotiation with a shopkeeper in Marrakesh, the weird-but-so-believable rubrics the friends use to choose who to give money to, the general zest for life he seems to be trying to convey.
I usually don’t blog books I don’t like, but You Shall Know Our Velocity by Dave Eggers deserves special treatment because it proved such a disappointment.
The protagonist is in a lot of physical and emotional pain and had my sympathy, though it seemed it was about time the got over it, until the interpolation of a commentary about halfway through the book from his partner, who said that the beating he said he received never happened and that his tragically dead friend never existed.
I hate to dis someone of his caliber, but YSKOV just did not find the right audience when it fell into my hands.
But lately I'd be sitting at my desk, trying either to work or to just admire the view and wonder about the stream, what makes it go, if there are fish inside, what their names might be, if any of them are secretly talking fish and if so what they might say--when there will suddenly be a library staff member at my side, and she will have one hand on my back, and the other will be pointing to the contents of a file she's brought me and has opened on my desk, so that I will follow her finger to where she's pointing, and when I see what she's pointing to I will gasp."
Two close friends decide to travel around the world in a week and give away $32,000 to random people.
This includes creating a treasure map for children in Estonia and delivering a bouquet of flowers to a sleeping family in Senegal.
The results of this journey are unexpected eye-opening experiences and a few disappointments (Morocco looks a little like Arizona).
Through all their travels and cash giveaways, the pair are trying to resolve something in their past.
But by over-analyzing it a bit (much like the main character), I've determined this is a fantastic read.
And it makes me want to go traveling again.
I'm surprised I hadn't heard more about this one prior to picking it up.
You Shall Know has Eggers in top form.
Never mind all the clever metafictional pyrotechnics (all of which are very well done, by the way)--within lies everything you'd want in a novel.
Laughter a-plenty, beautiful prose, wonderfully executed dialogue, passages that you'll want to read back two, three, four times.
I've found through Goodreads that my fatal weakness as a book-reviewer is that when I really like something, I often find myself at a loss for things to say about it.
So consider the lack of substance here a testament to Eggers' astonishing achievement.
