https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1297992.The_Silver_Pencil
Janet learns stories of Scotland from her father, stories of England from her mother, and stories of America from reading Little Women.
That Christmas, Janet’s father gives her a silver pencil for her stories, and she writes about her life in Trinidad.
The rest of the book follows Janet as she and her mother move to England for Janet’s schooling, through a visit with relatives in Scotland, then a return to Trinidad for mother’s health, to Janet’s decision to go to America for teacher training.
I sought out this one mostly out of interest in its sequel—Along Janet's Road, which includes a semi-autobiographical account of working in children's book publishing in the 1930s and 40s—and I figured that this would be worth a read if it was a Newbery Honor book.
The Silver Pencil is a novel based on Dalgliesh's own life, from her childhood in British colonial Trinidad, through her moves to the UK and the US, and following her journey to becoming a teacher, an author, and (eventually, in the second book) an editor.
This story took my daughter and me six months to finish. Was it that we were too busy for reading stories, or that there were often more compelling things to draw our attention than this story? The reason could never be the first. Though there were some great moments in this book, I am happy now to have finished it. The story sometimes takes very sad and difficult turns, but this is one of its strengths; it does not attempt to hide that life can be difficult and tough. In that, it is an honest story.
Semi-autobiographic kids’ novel about a girl who receives a special Christmas present – a silver pencil. She uses it to record her observations of life around her –childhood in Trinidad, school in England, then America, and finally her life as teacher and writer.
I remember why I liked this book as a kid.
It's about a girl who grows up in a British colony on Trinidad and begins writing stories from an early age, then goes away to boarding school in England, then to college in New York to become a teacher.
Between this book and my L.M. Montgomery collection, I can certainly see how I conjured fantasies of charming, old-fashioned Canadian villages brimming with romantic flower species like trillium and plump neighbors who call you Dearie.
Reading this again renewed my desire to go North and be the eccentric lady in hats who picks flowers and writes children's books.
This book started out well as the author described the difficulty moving from a colony to England for boarding school during the early 20th century. For being written 70 years ago, the scenes about bullying and mistreatment of blacks feel current. But pretty soon it was boyfriend this, boyfriend that, questioning her abilities in her chosen profession, and other examples of angst that I tire of when reading. I would not recommend it except perhaps to tween girls who aspire to be authors or playwrights.
This was an enjoyable book about a girl's growing into a young lady with dreams and real purpose in life. The setting moves from the Caribbean to England to North America. I enjoyed traveling along with Janet as she grows, learns, and sees her life expand.
Observing Janet from age nine, growing up in the British dependency of Trinidad, to her post-college days as she starts figuring out the direction she wants to take in the lifetime stretching before her filled with such promise, we follow the trail of a budding creative mind reluctantly reaching full bloom, stepping into the role she was meant for as inspiration to children worldwide and down through the generations via her captivating, transformative stories.
I am very happy when people have worn out my books, or that they're held together by Scotch tape.” There are compelling reasons why many authors choose to write to the hearts of children rather than adults, and Alice Dalgliesh expounds on them beautifully in The Silver Pencil.
Overall it was a cute children's book. I picked this up because it had been in a bin of free books and caught my attention. As it is a children's book, it was a relatively quick read. From a child's perspective, it's age appropriate and gives the reader a peek into early 20th century life and attitudes
I remember reading this in elementary school but I don't remember anything about it.
This is a young person's book, but well-written and I enjoyed it.
Janet Laidlaw is 9 years old at the beginning of this book and living in Trinidad with her parents.
Her older brother spends a year at sea after attending school in England, but finds he does not like it and returns home.
Her brother takes over his business and soon her mother determines that Janet must go to school in England.
The story follows her years in school and return to Trinidad when there isn't enough money to go to college.
She returns to writing stories when she is forced to take a year off for health reasons.
I read it too long ago to remember lots of details, but I do remember that this book really encouraged me to keep writing down my stories.
When it comes time for her to go to high school, her mother takes her "home" to England where she distinguishes herself in school and is on track to earn a scholarship to college.
This story is similar in premise to Emily of New Moon but without the charm and color of Lucy Maud Montgomery's famous trilogy.
The descriptions of Trinidad are beautiful and a little more lively than the plot.
Later in the book, Janet arrives in a small village in New York which is also treated to a charming description which made me sure the author had been there and was writing from life.
Green trees, flowers, the sky and the sunshine, all seemed overlaid with a gray mist—like the tables in the living room when they were covered with volcanic dust.”“They all took up their lives again where the thread had broken, but every one was a little different.”Janet’s difficulty with teaching, as described by her friend: “I think the problem with you is that you began thinking in terms of ‘discipline’ and never got over it.
It could expand and take in all kinds of experience, or it could remain, wound tight and unyielding, around the small package that was your life.
I found it odd that her father passed away when she was young and that event changed her life forever, yet she hardly ever mentioned him again, especially when she was older.
Even when she got her first book published, and only after, did she think, "I wish my father could see this." And then that was it.
Especially since her father had been the one to give her those books and the silver pencil, which is of course the title of the novel.
I thought the pencil would be this constant in her life through the years and it just didn't seem like the star of the narrative the way it was supposed to.
The Pencil of the title is given to her by her father when she's young to encourage her to keep writing stories, and becoming a writer is a thread throughout the book.I was a bit disappointed that the book never really came alive for me, and I never felt what Janet was feeling.
Janet goes to school with children who grew up in India and Calcutta, for instance, and it was interesting to see how those places were viewed in England.
I had to smile when one of Janet's friends defended her from teasing by telling her tormentors that they could be responsible for destroying the British Empire with their attitudes.
She finally meets her brother who she has never known since he was in school in England when she was born.The story follows her life starting with the Christmas when she received a silver pencil from her father.
When Janet finishes school, she wants to go to college but her mother decides not to let her go.
Her mother is ill and has to return to the island.Finally, Janet makes it to college but in America and during her training becomes ill.
Janet heads back to New York City, get her book published, and finishes her education to become a teacher.
Newberry honor book, The Silver Pencil by Alice Dagliesh.
I didn't like this to start with.
I think it was because the main character Janet grew up and became more interesting.
Also some of her observations about Americans and their behavior were interesting.
She mentions how American's are quick to promise extraordinary things but then not deliver.
Unlike the British who promise little but always deliver on it.
Interesting theory.
Since she was a teacher she also had some interesting theories about teaching.
I wonder about how much she experienced as a teacher at the turn of the century was historically accurate.
Fictionalized memoir of a girl growing up in colonial Trinidad, then moving to Britain at age 12 to go to school (which almost all colonials did), and finally, going to the US to learn to be a teacher.
The most interesting parts of this book for me were the picture of turn-of-the-century Trinidad and the look at what it was like to be a teacher in the US in the WWI era.
The thread that holds the memoir together is that the main character wants to be a writer and tries in various ways to get there.
I am rating this book 3 stars, due in part to the fact that I am an adult woman reading a 'young adult' book published in 1944.
I found the book worth reading, but really more like a book of memoirs and reminisces from a long ago era.
I did find delight in the mention of the book 'Little Black Sambo'.
My brothers and I loved this book in our childhood!
Growing up poor and white in rural Iowa in the 50's, we had no perception of anything racist--we marveled at Little Black Sambo's love and amazing capacity for pancakes!
This story is somewhat the story of a chunk of the author's life, though she changed some of the details and, I think, all of the names, including the title of her first book.
It stars out when she lived in Trinidad and goes through when she becomes a citizen of the United States.But you can tell that there are some aspects of America that the author really didn't know so well when she wrote the book.
Also, the author doesn't seem to realize that the heroine of the story is a little spoiled and selfish.
That's what made me think that it might have been about herself, and, checking up on the author on Wikipedia, I found that it was.
Alice Dalgliesh does have a somewhat stiff, simplistic writing style.
That does not take away, however, from much of the value in her writing.
Her autobiographical THE SILVER PENCIL shows how after idyllic years growing up in the West Indies, Dalgliesh dealt with significant loss and change in her life.
I enjoyed how Dalgliesh portrays the culture of her time and place, along with how she often has to try to "fit in" as circumstances take her into new and different cultures.
These are the kinds of experiences that are common to us all; which is probably why I came away from this book feeling that I truly got to know the author.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-e...This book, on the other hand, was not a winner. It covers the story of a young girl as she grows up in Trinidad, moves to England after her father dies, and eventually winds up as a teacher in America. I found most of the book slow moving and boring (and sometimes a little racist–it was published in the 1940s), and the book covered so much of the girl’s life that I couldn’t figure out what age group would be interested in the story. This one was not for me.
After writing a book for TCM about one of Dalgliesh's books, I decided I wanted to read another. This is one of Dalgiesh's first books and while not an a stated autobiography, matches her life very closely. I enjoyed reading about this young girl and all of her experience. It seemed rather long at times, maybe it went into too much detail. Knowing that it was about the experiences of an author I had enjoyed, it was fun to read.
I can't think of anyone I would recommend this book to. It starts out seeming like a charming book for a young girl but then it jumps around so much and lacks transitions. She is nine, then she is thirteen, then sixteen, then in college and in love, then a kindergarten teacher, then she doesn't like teaching, then she goes back to college - all this by page 150. I didn't feel connected to any of the characters because storylines were not developed enough to make me care.
The author's life was the basis for this Newberry Honor book about Janet's life in Trinidad, England and finally America. It's well written but the thing I will always remember about this story is the surprise I got in Chapter 23 when Janet went to Geneseo, NY where my Mom grew up! It was like getting a hug from heaven to read about that beautiful little town and the school my mom went to. What a gift!
I love this book. I know I've read it before, probably as a child, but didn't really remember much if anything of the story. Janet is a very appealing heroine, that girls can and will identify with, especially since she is not perfect. All her life she has wanted to write, and her father's gift of a silver pencil spurs her on as she overcomes a variety of obstacles. Highly recommended.
Rated G. To be honest, this seems like one of those books that is really supposed to be good for you. Some of it is fun, but it often feels a bit more like something written by an adult for children. You know, that slightly condescending sort of book that tells kids about how hard it is to really grow up and decide what you want to do.
I enjoyed this story about a girl in British Trinidad who eventually moves to the United States and Canada for kindergarten training. Her struggles with confidence, friendships, family, romance, career and, most of all, finding her place in the world, ring true. That the protagonist's experiences are similar to the author's own makes it all the more interesting.
