https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781653.Montana_1948
It's also wise to the nature of love as lived from day to day, and how it so often can curdle into acceptance of what one cannot change...but should, or should always strive to, because some things are simply, inarguably, Right.As a meditation on one's remembered past, this is a crystal clear and unsparing récit; as a story, it's so simple as to be mindless, except that it's mindful of the role of unadorned narrative in making the world a better place.I would like to know the characters in this novel, really know them, sit in their kitchens and listen to their stories and drink their vile percolated coffee.
Nevertheless, she has watched my father and other men often enough to know where the shells go, and she loads them until the gun will hold no more.
Now, I do read quite a lot of books twice, but it really has to resonate with me if I turn to it a third time.The narrator is middle-aged David Hayden looking back to the summer of 1948 when he was twelve years old.
This 1993 novella wonderfully captures a great sense of place of growing up in a small prairie town in Montana and the loss of innocence by a boy experiencing the events and consequences of a case of abuse within his own family.From a point four decades later, David begins his account with this powerful foreshadowing: “From the summer of my twelfth year I carry a series of images more vivid and lasting than any others of my boyhood and indelible beyond all attempts the years make to erase or fade them.” We are given the disparate images of a Sioux woman sick in bed, another of his father kneeling and pleading to his mother for help, and a third of his mother wielding a shotgun, three people he admits that “no one loved them more.”David paints an engaging and poignant picture of family life in this community, where his father serves as a Sheriff and his mother as a cleric in county government.
Montana 1948 by Larry Watson.
Clean simple writing and a good story well-told.
There is no reason to pump up the volume simply for the sake of marketing a thicker book.
What it means to be a peace officer in Montana is 'knowing when to look and when to look away'.
What this book has to say will linger with you.
This is the second book I have read by this author, with the first being won in a Goodreads giveaway (Let Him Go).
Discovering author Larry Watson is a bonus.
I am thinking here of titles that may have little in common with the present novel, other that the young narrator: Boy’s Life by Robert McCammon; The Body by Stephen King (filmed as Stand By Me); The Summer of ’42 by Herman Raucher (also filmed); The Go-Between by L.P. Hartley (ditto); my recent lecture of The Maid’s Version by Daniel Woodrell.Coming back to the events that precipitate the passage of David into the adult world, I find that I cannot separate them from the location and the moment in time they represent.
Montana 1948 is a delightful yet unsettling gem, more a novella than a novel, that grapples with family relationships, the mistreatment of Native Americans, and sexual abuse, but is primarily an insightful coming-of-age story.
As works of literary fiction go, Watson's narrative is as technically precise as a Mozart symphony: the voice is pitch-perfect, the pacing masterful, the characters drawn to perfection.
I also found Watson to be one of those rare writers (William Styron comes to mind as another) who can write with convincing and moving authenticity about culture other than his own.
A lovely work, not to be missed.
I wish I could go back in time and tell the Gavin of eight months ago to proceed with the story, regardless of what I was feeling and thinking at the time.
For the characters of MONTANA 1948 family is centered on the Hayden clan, from the fictitious town of Bentrock, where grandfather was the sheriff, and where father (Wes) is currently the sheriff.
For an author to get me to feel all these emotions within such a slim novel (169 pages) is a remarkable feat.
If you’ve never had the chance to read Larry Watson before, I strongly urge you to find any of his books.HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION
I’m sure the goal may have been to create suspense, but for me it just created a muted story where I found myself chomping at the bit wanting to know more about what was going on in the story.
I wanted to see the conflict in the room between the Native American girl, Marie and Gail Hayden.
I wanted to hear the story that Marie told Wesley Hayden and experience his reaction.
It was a short easy read, but I felt like the story was sacrifice for technique.
That’s what I wanted to read.
4.5 starsI started this book thinking of another: William Maxwell’s So Long, See You Tomorrow.
Perhaps not enough gets said (at least not by me) about So Long, See You Tomorrow's portrayal of the distinct social classes within a small town, a theme that’s a focus here.
Ford has said of his novel Canada that its debt to So Long, See You Tomorrow is “obvious”, so there’s that thread of connection too, though I have no idea whom Watson’s influences might be.Also similar to Maxwell and Ford, Watson’s prose is straightforward yet nuanced.
I wish I hadn't taken so long in starting this book which has been malingering on my TBR list for awhile upon a family recommendation. Riveting story, austere prose, and bald-faced observances all make the revelation of hypocrisy, prejudice, and complicity by inaction horrifyingly main street.
Coming-of-age books have long captured the interest of readers, from contemporary classics like Catcher in the Rye and To Kill a Mockingbird to Louise Erdrich’s excellent novel The Round House.
In the space of a few weeks, David will see first-hand what occurs when practicality and expediency are set against moral absolutism and when long-time family loyalty comes crashing against one’s personal sense of what is right and what is just.I cannot give enough accolades for this book.
This superbly rendered novel has all the markings of a classic.
This was a re-read of another title that I would call a perfect little book.
Over the years I have recommended Montana, 1948 so many times to readers that I felt the need to go back and give it another read, just to make sure I still knew what I was talking about.
The novella is that perfect example of a suspenseful literary title, and the perfect prescription for literary readers grown bored with navel-gazing, and crime readers grown weary of the formulaic nature that even the best mystery series can be prone to.
Far more often than one would expect this little 1993 title has come up when I’m talking with readers about books that they’re really loved.
Read this stellar novella if you want to know what it feels like to be an only child, 12 years old, and have your mostly-perfect life changed forever by grownups you trust and circumstances you can't control.
"a dominating man who drew sustenance and strength from controlling others." During the dog days of August 1948, David's Sioux caretaker, Marie Little Soldier, becomes ill and shares a secret with David's mother, unleashing a chain of events that, as David feared, changes everything.This is my first Larry Watson, and I owe a big thank you to GR friend Howard for bringing this author to my attention.
I wanted more of the backstories of Marie Little Soldier and Ollie Young Bear and Grandma Hayden, but then this wouldn't have been a novella.
Geez. This book really got to me. I have been contemplative all the day long. Thinking of family and relationships. The way some families are enmeshed in unhealthy ways. The dynamics of power. Small towns. Racism. I read this novella in pretty much one sitting. The sense of urgency I felt to finish it made me uncommonly tense. So what happened in Montana in 1948? Before or after?Recommended.
A wonderful little book. More thoughts later when I have time.
I think the whole "coming of age" novel has been done to death, and so often is done badly.
The 'voice' is just right for a boy on the fine line between childhood and adolescence who is starting to search for the true meaning behind the things adults tell him - and the things they choose not to tell him.
I remember childhood as being a lot like that once I got past the age of 11 or 12.I really like this book a lot, I'm describing it badly, but it's beautifully written, and while it is fiction, it read so true.
Montana 1948 is a beautiful lyrical little novel of around 160 pages.
Having done so I was fascinated by such a poetic, provocative and beautiful little novel.
Where TKAM features the childhood exploits of Scout and her brother, Montana 1948 follows David Hayden, who is growing up wild and carefree in Bentrock.
His uncle is the local (and only) doctor, Frank, a man who the town sees as a war hero.
Yet as David discovers throughout the novel, Frank is far less of a hero than he at first seems.
I can only fully recommend it for how powerfully the novel works in a very nuanced manner.
In my little life full of coincidences, I would never have believed it if someone told me I would unintentionally read two books in one month with plots based upon the rape of Native American women by white men and both set in the northern plains.
Watson's book was published by a Minnesota press nearly 20 years before Erdrich's "Round House." Both are narrated by a young preteen boy whose family is educated, educated in law and financially proviledged.
What's more, they are both stunning in the quality of writing, story and character.
This little novel was a really excellent read.
Set in 1948 Montana (duh), its the story of David Hayden and his family.
David is the 12 yr old son of the Sheriff of Mercer County.
His grandfather was the former sheriff, and his Uncle is a "can do no wrong" war hero and local doctor.
Its an western tragedy where no one wins in the end.
Except, of course, for the reader.While a short novel, Watson's prose packs a punch, both emotionally and visually.
Its a western, on the edge of the modern era.
Political, familial and cultural battles are waged against the Big Sky of Montana.
A story of living in rural Montana in 1948.David and his parents lived close to an Indian Reservation. The Indians were part of their everyday life.David's Father and his Uncle Frank were very different men. His father was the town Sheriff and his Uncle frank was a doctor in the town Bentrock. The Uncle did some bad things and David's father was torn between the Law and loyality .David did a lot of growing up that summer in 1948The story was beautifully written, almost poetic.
I also read American Boy a few years back and loved that, so definitely I am a Larry Watson fan.
However, for some reason I had it in my head that this was a long cowboy western (kind of like McMurtry's Lonesome Dove) and so had kind of been avoiding it.
It's not like that.
Cleary, Erdich has read this and most obviously was influenced by it in her writing.I love the gray area of this novel.
He quite obviously never condones rape or murder, but he makes us understand how hard it is for Wes to not do so.
Another great American Western novel - I'm on a hot streak!
It turns out that the story is set in the NE corner of Montana so I found myself in flat lands vs the mountainous backdrop I was seeking, but was rewarded with a great coming of age story nonetheless.
The young are more practiced; time passes slower for them and they are constantly filling their hours, days, months, and years with waiting - for birthdays, for Christmas, for Father to return, for summer to arrive, for graduation, for the rain to stop, for the minister to stop talking, for girls to stop saying, "Not now, not yet; wait." No, when it comes to patience, even the enforced variety, the young are the real masters.
This is the story of a 12-year old boy coming of age in rural Montana.
My favorite novels tend to be coming of age stories, so it was no surprise to me that I liked this book.
The young boy awakens over the course of the story to the fact that his family isn’t perfect and that his idyllic small town isn’t as idyllic as he once thought.
Instead of rural Montana, I grew up in rural Arizona and there was no way I could unmask the racism there until I went to high school.
He realizes that part of the truth has always been there.
My first Watson and not my last. Great book to end my challenge for the year.Sometimes, the art of 'simple' writing can be as effective as the most beautiful language ever written.
Even I understood the symbolism: Franks' death was an unbridgeable gulf between us." (167)As for country noir (the main reason I read this book, as this is my research topic), not sure it much qualifies.
The MC goes on to an adult life (knowing this from the beginning, btw, sucks nearly all potential tension from the book) and carefully reflects on the bad things that happens.
This probably disqualifies it from the noir moniker.To sum: solidly written, solidly uninspiring.A couple good lines:"You know what your Grandad said it means to be a peace officer in Montana?
We are reading the same books that our kids are assigned at school and then we get together to discuss the books and drink wine while we do it.I found it curious that we'd start with this book and not Maus, which the kids just finished and looked really discussion worthy.
I'm pretty sure that the book is being assigned in their history class, which was the same class that required them to read Maus.
I think it's rather brave for this teacher to assign this book, which in the end, was an excellent work of literature on its own.
Told by David Hayden 40 years after the event, so as he was a 12 year old, this wonderful novel describes life in the north east of Montana in the 1950s.
What works so well about this short novel (rather than a novella, at almost 200 pages), is the setting, the voices he instils in his characters, and the honesty and innocence of a 12 year old.
I remembered the way he lowered and twisted his head when I approached., as if he were waiting for me to whisper something in his ear., that long ear whose touch remains,indeed me of felt.
Montana, 1948 is well-written, simple and direct.
It seems more like a short story than a novel.
Montana is both a crime drama and an examination of the young protagonist's complex family relationships.
I guess I wanted more surprises.
Of course, the young protagonist is very surprised by the story's events, but, maybe because he is looking back on those events as an adult, everything felt inevitable to me.
There was no real tension.This seems like a great book for younger readers (middle school age maybe?).
Watson's unpretentious prose is pleasant to read and the story is simple and easy to follow.
In the beginning of the novel, Wes who is now the sheriff of the town and Frank is an uncle, a doctor, the ideal son, and a war hero have an interesting relationship between them and their father.
Wes had to deal with one of his close relatives getting in lots of trouble and doesn't know what to do.
All of the family because of this crime a family member convicted the family and ether relatives question in each other and their jobs.loyalty vs justice is a very important peace later in the story.
