https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41001.From_Bauhaus_to_Our_House
Wolfe makes it clear from page one that he doesn’t care for modernist architecture, both the style and the intellectual philosophies behind it.
In 2006, in an interview with the National Endowment for the Humanities, Wolfe said of his books about art and architecture, The Painted Word and From Bauhaus to Our House, “I intended those books as permission slips for everybody to like what they want.” But that’s just not true!
What Wolfe doesn’t mention in his writing about Pruitt-Igoe is that it was a failure of urban planning more than just a failure of architecture.
The next time someone tells me modern architecture is perfectly sane, perfectly A-OK, I’m going to laugh and slap them with this book. (Very bourgeois of me, I know.)
Wolfe writes an interesting, hilarious, and opinionated account of how we ended up with all Those Buildings, i.e. those concrete boxes that look like factories that everyone understands are "art" but secretly thinks are really ugly.
My architecture knowledge is pretty much limited to recognizing that architects design bafflingly expensive, utilitarian chairs (how bourgeois of me!) and that "Eero" and "Saarinen" are frequent answers to New York Times crossword puzzle clues.
I also really liked that Wolfe doesn't pull any of his punches.
He pretty much masters the art of rolling his eyes on paper by using italics, exclamation points, and quotation marks ("A color?
The Bauhaus school stripped away all tradition in the name Socialism, creating the Modernist schools and mass housing for the prols. Many of our council/ public housing horrors can laid at Bauhaus's door- howling and moaning. The blocks of glass and steel, the grey and white furnishings and interiors that we inhabit as workplaces, we can thank them for these as well. This is Tom Wolfe, biting, sarcastic and cutting through to the core.
This is the first Tom Wolfe book I've read, and it's an absolute hoot. Wolfe is opinionated, caustic, funny, and completely irreverent - the perfect person to write a short and never-dull book on that unclad emperor, modern architecture. This book is for everyone who's ever wondered why, even though everyone hates modern architecture, we're all continuously forced first to pay for it and then to look at at it.
I'm very interested in the question of why the richest and most powerful civilization in human history has decided to create the ugliest and most hateful architectural landscape imaginable, despite having the power to easily make what people enjoy and find pleasing.
Premiere among them was the Bauhaus School, which obliterated ornamentation and anything else that human beings like in buildings in the name of expunging bourgeois influence and returning civilization back to some imaginary point zero.
This type of thinking also disseminated into art, music and other endeavors where bourgeois influence was perceived and deemed in need of obliteration.This is more of an intellectual history than a book about architecture.
If journalism were always this engaging, I’d be much more well-informed. Stuff objective narrative. Give me a point of view to interact with, support your claims with data, and then let me read the opposing POV. Especially when we write of events happening during our lifetimes.
So he criticizes early and mid-century modern architecture and applauds those who resisted the glass box in favor of expressive and exuberant designs--like Eero Saarinen.
Wolfe's most interesting claim is that the motivation for architectural modernism was despair after the first world war and the desire to create a new society from scratch, since the old one had been destroyed.
That means there is no attempt to understand modernism from the inside, which might come across as sheer obnoxiousness.
But it will come across that way only if you're so in love with modernism that you can't stand to see it criticized.
Laugh-out-loud funny nonfiction romp about the bigoted world of 20th century architecture.
Got it from the library, devoured it, handed it to my husband, then he read it aloud to me over a couple of evenings.
It's a case study of how a small, prescriptivist art clique with enough snobbery and chutzpah was able to conquer and dominate their cashed-up patrons and make them pay for buildings they hated without ever questioning their authority.
My favourite story was how the actual *workers* were the only ones with enough moxie to say no to the dreadful vision of worker housing handed down to them from in high.
"Blow it up!
Blow it up!" they chanted.
Insightful, funny, and memorable.
In which Tom Wolfe rips the modern and post modernists a new one with his usual pluck and verve.
Wolfe cannot get beyond his American disgust for the iconoclasts, who tore down traditional architecture in America for no good reason.
This historical background does help explain why Wright has experienced a revival in America since at least the 1990s.
No need to try harder, to make the effort to withdraw from the accepted verities and seek the Tao. No, for Wolfe, the problem is not society.
The problem is only the verities that are chosen to be accepted, and the reasons for the rejection of others.
Tom Wolfe's short work, From Bauhaus to Our House, is little more than a screed against the excesses of modern architecture.
While agreeing with many of his conclusions, I found the style and tone of the book to be inappropriate for the purpose of serious art/architecture criticism.
Written in 1981, it seems dated with a quarter century of architectural progress having occurred since it was published.
The result of these references led me to question Wolfe's knowledge of architecture.
An alternative for those who are interested in the spirit of twentieth century architecture may be found in the work of Louis Kahn.
Somebody mentioned this on Facebook recently, and I (having some interest in domestic architecture) thought "ooh, sounds interesting" and headed for the library.Alas, the title is distinctly misleading; the book is not at all about domestic architecture.
It is about modern architecture in general, from the Bauhaus onwards, with particular attention to America.
And, since the author dislikes modern architecture and has no patience for the theories behind it, it is also a fairly scathing critique of those things.I have to admit to having little fondness for the concrete box style of modern architecture myself, nor much patience with pomposity, so I did find the book quite amusing.
But it's not actually what I was wanting to read.
This book is a hilarious demolition job. It raises the mystifying question of how a small number of European architects from the 1920s managed to turn their field of work into a religion replete with dogma. It also looks at some of the devastating effects Bauhaus has had on urban planning and housing projects. In a way, Wolfe's criticism could have been even harsher. That is especially true of the figue of Le Corbusier – a man who would have torn down half of Paris if only they'd let him and who had no qualms working for dictators.
An accessible and brief history of Modern architecture. Laced with cynicism and sarcasm, this is not an objective history but one written through the lens of Wolfe's frustration with 20th century architectural trends. Having studied this period in architectural history, I appreciated the author's biting wit and emphasis on characterizing the architects themselves rather than their designs, but would not recommend the book to someone unfamiliar with the key players in Modern architecture.
This book gets half a star for showing a surface understanding of architectural history, theory, and education. The second half star is for getting away with publishing an entire book full of sarcastic ramblings.
26 Nov. 2018 - I remember reading and enjoying this little book sometime in the early 80s, not too long after it was published in 1981. Tom Wolfe is just a fantastic writer. Very creative and accurate portrait painter of the foibles of various people and groups.This one critiqued the Bauhaus architects and movement as being opposed to designing buildings that were enjoyable to observe, live and work in. I think he made many good points in a very touching way.
Classic tom wolfe - entertainingly skewers a pretentious crowd in service of an alternative he never persuasively articulates or defends.
Vintage Wolfe. We discern the 'zing' that characterises his later work. Perforce, no dialogue - Wolfe's usual special gift to readers - but delightful sneers galore as he deconstructs the deconstruction imposed by 'modern' architecture of good taste, comfort and pleasure.
Wolfe's book is certainly not the first or last word on the subject, and it's not meant to be a complete history of the movement.
It is, however, a wonderful starting point for reading about the major names and styles of 20th century architecture.
(No mention of Brutalism, the International Style's dreadful post-war spawn, and only a single mention of Bruce Goff, who deserves place alongside Wright and Fuller as individualists who bucked the trends.) It is perfect for fans of Wolfe, and makes a nice companion to his book on modern art, The Painted Word.
I have read almost all of the work he cites, and they are so much more complicated, adorned and difficult to read yet all of their ideas are compressed in a fairly easy to read book (by architectural theory standards anyway).By devaluating what we hail as an architectural ideal today, Wolfe gives the practice of architecture value, and makes the profession of architecture feel like something attainable rather than a theoretical historical ideal.Would recommend to anyone who is not an architect and is curious of its evolution in the last century.
I would also recommend it to architects who want a very short and funny review of 20th century architectural history with a different perspective to it.
Does NOTHING satisfy you, sir??
Things that offend Wolfe: architects that aren't simply sketchers for the design ideas of their wealthy clients; new ideas; change.
Yes, some of the artists and architects of the early 20th century were pretentious blowhards.
Why categorically dismiss the simplicity of modern design in favor of the same old quoins and trim and ornamentation?
As it is, Wolfe just reads like an uptight aristocrat passing his class insecurity through a filter of sarcasm, or a young person who expresses extreme viewpoints as forcefully as possible, to avoid the intellectual rigor required to see nuance.
I just finished Tom Wolfe's excellent "From Bauhaus to Our House." And I wonder with the Bauhaus and modern architecture calling itself "non bourgeois", is there anything more bourgeois than modern architecture and the Barcelona chair?I didn't like it as much this time as previous readings, probably the fourth time I've read it.
But, there is something incredibly elitist about academies and art.
I think we will see amazing art, we already are.And architecture is getting more interesting and away from the box.
It's amazing the beauty of the Craftsman house around Pasadena, CA was often bought as a kit from Sears in the 1920s.I also flew this a lot faster in previous readings.
Nearly thirty years ago, Tom Wolfe put the architectural world in a tizzy when he published this essay attacking modern architecture.Now, I'm not a big fan of glass & steel & concrete office buildings, but Wolfe is absolutely virulent on the subject.
And therein lies the rub.
He detests Bauhaus-inspired work so much that he has no perspective.
But any legitimate criticism is lost in this diatribe.
Saying over and over again "it's ugly and I don't like the architects' politics" is not particularly persuasive.
A short and entertaining history of the modern architecture movement, though accuracy may not be 100% in his telling. However, it's fun to read someone lambasting a movement that completely took over architecture (especially in America). I wonder what Wolfe would have to say about the current state of architecture: Gehry, Hadid, Liebeskind...the absurd grand scale sculpture-buildings sans-context that are passing as the epitome of architectural prowess...sure makes me miss Louis Sullivan and FLW...
This is a stupid book and I do not recommend bothering with it. If you were going to, here's my cliff notes version: "Kid's these days! New architecture is bad! It's bad because I don't like it! That's the only reason you need! The fact that I do not like it means it is bad!"I know this is supposed to be funny but... euh. Also, in order to get up a good rant, the author is frequently factually incorrect (There is simply not enough snow in Amsterdam to make a flat roof a problem)
I once planned to write a lengthy commentary about how this book sucks and was basically a piece of ridiculous right-wing propaganda, but that just seems silly right now. I feel like this review should take the form of a set of aphorisms about Tom Wolfe, his politics, his aesthetic sense (or lack thereof, apparently), and other matters salient. But I don't know. Maybe I'll get back to it. Where'd those notes go...
A little wry cynicism goes a long way. Unfortunately, Tom Wolfe lacks any self-restraint, so his cynical edge degenerates into a self-involved rant. Not funny. Not enlightening. And not (in more than a few instances) especially accurate. But who cares about credibility if all you're going for is a petty diatribe?
Primer libro del año. Tom Wolfe, siempre ácido y crítico, vuelve a sorprenderme con su humor.From Buahaus to Our House relata el surgimiento y la evolución de la arquitectura moderna, todo narrado de la forma más cómica y cruda posible. Le Corbusier, Mies Van der Rohe y Walter Gropious son sólo algunos nombres que no escapan de la pluma de Wolfe.
A humorous critique of 20th century architecture. the first half was enlightening to those of us who had never thought about the herd mentality in architectural design. The last half added little new.
Wonderful.
