https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025560.Sam_Bangs_Moonshine
Lying is conveying untruths to people, and no one in their right mind would believe the stuff Sam says.
I know, I know, we are told Thomas believes it, but I didn't buy that.
Even if he were young and naive enough to think she really had a baby kangaroo, he should have wised up after weeks of being sent on wild goose chases to find the kangaroo.
And if he's so young or dumb he hasn't, he shouldn't be let to wander around all day unsupervised.
Sam doesn't seem to have any friends beside her cat.
"Sam, Bangs & Moonshine" is one of those rare books that truly touched me and I definitely want a copy to add to my own library to share with my children, when I have them.
I just loved the story from the beginning, "On a small island, near a large harbor, there once lived a fisherman's little daughter (named Samantha, but always called Sam), who had the reckless habit of lying." Wow, what!?
;-p Throughout the course of the story, aided by her adorable cat Bangs and a lie gone bad, Sam learns that there is a difference between a joyful imagination and a harmful falsehood.
I just love everything about this book.
It’s amazing to me that it was first published in 1966 (and my library copy was the original hardcover 1966 edition) yet I’d never heard of it until I saw my Goodreads’ friend Kathryn’s review.I loved the illustrations (admittedly old-fashioned at this point), I loved the cat Bangs, I loved the girl Sam, and I especially loved this story.
Sam learns in a hard lesson the difference between what’s real and what’s moonshine, and also when being imaginative can be wonderful and when it/lying can have horrible consequences.I highly recommend this for children who have lost a parent or other loved one, and especially for those children prone to lying.
Even more gorgeous, in art, and theme, and characters, and execution of all, than the other times I've read it. Thank goodness for small town libraries that don't discard old books.
One of the great books of my childhood. That carpet pulled by dragons is still there whenever I need it.
But when her tall stories bring disaster to her friend Thomas and her cat Bangs, Sam learns to distinguish between moonshine and reality.- Goodreads book description There are other reviewers who agree with me about the concept and those reviewers weren't difficult to find so I know I'm not alone in thinking this about the plot.
Yes, maybe I am looking at this way to literal but I just had too much trouble with Sam getting in trouble for telling these stories, or moonshine, as her father calls it because what the reader actually finds out is (view spoiler)[Sam's mother has died and she is lonely, experiencing grief, and having a difficult time coping with her loss.
Sam (short for Samantha) is a fisherman’s daughter with an active imagination.
She insists her mother is a mermaid, that her cat Bangs can speak, and that she had a chariot drawn by a dragon.
She is so convincing that she often sends her friend Thomas in search of her pet baby kangaroo.
Her father cautions her about her tall tales, but it takes a near disaster to wake her up to the dangers of spinning “moonshine.”This is a lovely cautionary short story.
Sam is a bright, inquisitive, and imaginative young girl.
She learns a hard lesson, but she’ll be a better person for having learned it.
Maybe this will help my kids learn the value of telling the truth." Now, I was thinking the "Yes I made my bed" when I really didn't kind of lying.
So then I was concerned whether the book would go too far one direction and say one needs to not have an imagination, or too far the other way and have the adults learn they need to immerse themselves in imagination.
Turns out the book focuses on needing to know the difference between "real" and "moonshine." But I don't think my preschooler had any idea what "moonshine" was meant to be.
Sam has to learn the difference between REAL and MOONSHINE in this book, and it's a scary lesson.
But the best part is that after she figures out the difference, she gets to KEEP a little bit of moonshine (like the rug that is a chariot drawn by dragons) and also, she knows what is real that the people around her think is moonshine and keeps that, too (even if she tells her daddy otherwise).I remember this book really making me sad when I was little, even though it has a happy ending.
But Bangs was awesome.
And Sam was awesome.
My babysitter Harriet bought this for me when I was little. I still have the book. I think it is a beautiful book and it speaks to me personally. I also think the drawing and design still look quite good almost 50 years later.
Too depressing and severe for a children's book, IMO.
I found this children's book to contain both a beautiful story and marvelous illustrations.
Sam is behind in her developmental tasks but learns the hard way the difference between real and moonshine when her prevarication almost results in the death of her only two friends.
Now Sam can begin to learn the difference between bad moonshine--lies--and good moonshine--fantasy and story-telling.
I loved the author's insight that getting outside her own head and gaining contact with reality enables Sam to begin to see things from other people's point of view, which will now enable her to develop a conscience, compassion, and the desire to do kindness to others.
One of the most wonderful children's books that I have ever read.
One day Sam told Thomas the kangaroo was taking a nap down on the beach and sent him to go find it.
Sam’s dad gave Sam a gerbil that looked like a tiny baby kangaroo.
Sam took the gerbil to Thomas and gave it to him and apologized.Critique the book backed by one reason: This book really teaches a good lesson to children.
Sam tells harmless lies like Bangs being able to talk.
Thomas was so excited to see the kangaroo and almost died because Sam sent him out when a storm was coming in.
What does Sam’s dad mean when he tells her to stop talking moonshine?
Because he mother has passed, she pretends that her cat, Bangs, can talk in order to pass the time.
The tales that she is telling are untrue, which her father calls “moonshine.” Sam tells these “moonshine” stories to a friend, and he goes off looking for her mermaid mother.
Sam’s father warned her that her moonshine tales would lead to trouble but she did not listen.
Eventually, Thomas is found and Sam learns to tell the truth because lies lead to trouble.
The illustrations in Sam, Bangs and Moonshine are not too exciting and have dull colors.
This is an odd little story about a lonely little girl who often scapes to a fantasy world and sometimes confuses reality with what her father calls, "MOONSHINE." While she is very imaginative, she is also a bit naughty with all the lying that she does.
She gets a wake-up call in the form of an almost-tragedy with her little friend and her cat.
It's a nice tale, with plainly drawn illustrations that show a lot of expression.This book was selected as one of the books for the April 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
My children and I all loved this book.
Sam is a young girl with quite an imagination.
Her dad calls her stories Moonshine and wants her to differentiate between real and moonshine.
When her friend is in danger due to one of her stories, Sam finally learns when it is okay to share moonshine and when she must tell what is real.
I can imagine using "moonshine" to remind my children to be honest if they are exaggerating ...or to encourage them to use their imagination as they tell stories.
I loved this! How come I never read it when I was young? A timeless story of learning the difference between "real and moonshine" and between "good moonshine and bad moonshine." What is moonshine? Bangs the cat says, "Moonshine is flummadiddle. Real is the opposite." Moonshine is what Sam's father calls the stories that she makes up - some of which are a good use of imagination and some of which are not.
This story put a lump in my throat. A little girl who tells lies (and honestly I can kind of understand how much she wants those stories to be true) gets someone else into a horrible dangerous situation. It's a hard lesson to learn. Thankfully things come out ok in the end. Really liked Sam and Bangs. Illustrations captured the emotions in the story perfectly.
This was a book we read growing up- it is one of my favorites and is so simple in its message: lying is not the same as make-believe. It is such a wonderful story and the pictures have these wonderful muted hues but seem colorful at the same time. Must read to all children!
I've loved cats from a very early age and this was always one of my favorite books when I was a small child. I'm not sure if my mother bought this due to my love of the felines or because she thought I needed the lesson on lying.It was probably the cats.
This is the story of a little girl who has to learn a hard lesson about the difference between good lies and bad lies.
Sam, Bangs & Moonshine by Evaline Ness is a wonderful book to give to a beginning reader who may still be in a stage where they are telling tales and creating realities of their own.
Ness uses a large amount of gray and defined lines to show the gloom and the reality that has overcome Sam. I found this book to be very sweet and entertaining.
I think that the illustrations do a great job of portraying the conflict that Sam experiences as she learns that telling people made up stories is not something that she should continue to do.
Sam, Bangs & Moonshine by Evaline Nelson, is a children’s story about a young girl named Sam who is known for lying and making things up.
Once Sam’s cat Bangs goes missing, Sam is finally able to realize the difference between her stories and imagination, “Moonshine” and what is reality or “real”.
Teaching students that nothing good comes out of lying and making things up.
After reading this story to the class I would have student raise their hands to discuss what could have been prevented if Sam had not lied.
Strength- Sam, Bangs, and Moonshine represents a great theme for children.
In the meantime Sam, a bright imaginative girl, makes up a fantasy world in which she has some control in her life, and I think helps her to deal with the important adults in her life abandoning her (her mother through death - yes unavoidable but the results remain and father through neglect).
Then, her father who plays the main role in creating the situation, instead of speaking with his daughter scolds her for her coping mechanism.Yes, this book was written in the 1960s, but times change.
Basically Sam has an active imagination and she tells her little friend Thomas that there’s a baby kangaroo in a cave visiting her mermaid mother, and Thomas goes to see it.
I felt really bad for Sam - there’s a difference between lying, pretending and using stories to cover up emotions you can’t deal with.
Sam is a little girl whose mother is dead and her father seems to leave her alone a lot.
So maybe she pretends a lot because she’s lashing out.
I can’t believe this won the Caldecott over One Wide River to Cross - I think that book is gorgeous and the story is straightforward.
Sam is a fisherman’s daughter who is prone to telling tales that are clearly untrue.
Sam’s tales almost end in tragedy when she tells her friend Thomas that her pet baby kangaroo is behind Blue Rock, and that her mom is also a mermaid.
Ness uses shades of gold, gray, black and brown to depict the life of Sam, and her lively imagination.
Unlike typical fun multi-colored picture books, Ness uses muted, neutral colors which add a rather dreary essence to the story.
Sam learns the important difference between making up stories for fun and telling lies which could potentially endanger people.
This book discussed Sam, a daughter of a fisherman.
The illustrations in this book are so unique simplistic.
One day, Sam told Thomas that he could find her mother, who she had said to be a mermaid, in a cave, and again Thomas believed her.
When Sam realized they had left, she began to worry because there was a storm that arose where the cave was.
I think that this book would be a great asset to my in class library, and I think it teaches a very important lesson of honesty and friendship.
The book was about a girl named Sam who had a tongue for lying, what her father calls as “moonshine” and was known for doing it constantly. She would tell crazy stories and a boy named Thomas would believe her. One time, her lie had almost led her cat Bangs and Thomas to their death until her father rescued him! This is when she had finally learned the difference between moonshine and reality. The 1967 Caldecott winner has a theme of; gold, black, white, and grey, and the drawings looks like th
The book was about a girl named Sam who had a tongue for lying, what her father calls as “moonshine” and was known for doing it constantly.
One time, her lie had almost led her cat Bangs and Thomas to their death until her father rescued him!
The pictures helped bring a connection to Sam’s perspective, for example, the drawings of the lion and kangaroo she had made, but also give a vibe to the old sailor life.For adults, the girl may be annoying because she lies enough, you're hoping a wolf will come into the picture.
In the end, I think this is a great life-lesson book about how south a deception can get and I love the art and the cat.
This is picture book about a young girl who has a problem with lying.
After she finds out Thomas is okay, she realizes that there is good and bad moonshine (lies/make belief) and she realizes that the bad moonshine can have serious consequences on other people.
The illustrations within this picture book are very unique as it is manly black and white but there are hints of gold that represent the moonshine within the story.
Additionally, the illustrations show the different emotions Sam went through as the story progressed which helped develop the character.
After being told by her father not to talk any moonshine anymore we then find out that Bangs does talk but does a bad job of describing moonshine to Sam. After meeting a friend of hers named Tom they soon discover that there is a high tide.
Once Sam told her friend Tom about a baby kangaroo that was with her mermaid mother Tom went out to see with Bangs, but the water carried Bangs out to sea.
The father was able to save Tom, but this meant a huge lesson to Sam about lying.
After Bangs came back from the sea Sam was able to learn her lesson without losing her friend.
