https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/992073.The_Devil_and_Daniel_Webster
A short story of pure wit and cheekiness with a good history lesson mixed in. Loved it.“they say that whenever the devil comes near Marshfield, even now, he gives it a wide berth. And he hasn’t been seen in the state of New Hampshire from that day to this. I’m not talking about Massachusetts or Vermont.”
Loved it! IT was such a short read but I love the ironies, the satire and just the thought that man can.take on and fight the devil. If only more men took on the devil the world wuld be a much better place.
New England yarn about Jabez Stone who is understandably reluctant to cough up his soul to the Stranger as he had promised. Instead he does the American thing and sues, hires the best lawyer he can, Daniel Webster. Webster mounts an ingenious defense.  As a modern reader I still enjoyed it but on looking up the histories of Stan's own jury they were almost all like Simon Girty, a friend of the Native Americans and somebody I liked or Thomas Morton who founded a fascinating and liberal community that were the hated rivals of those uptight Puritans.
I'm embarrassed to admit it, but I love this piece of corny old Americana. Besides, it's not all one-sided and sentimental--there's some serious truth in here. And it's also fun. A great story to read on the Fourth of July.
And I would, too, for two cents!'"Then he felt a kind of queerness come over him at having said what he'd said; though, naturally, being a New Hampshireman, he wouldn't take it back.
He didn't like the looks of the stranger, nor the way he smiled with his teeth."They were white teeth, and plentiful - some say they were filed to a point, but I wouldn't vouch for that.
And he didn't like it when the dog took one look at the stranger and ran away howling with his tail between his legs.
I read this short story in my college English Literature class, and boy am I glad that this was included in the list of reading!
While I enjoyed The Devil and Tom Walker, I prefer this retelling over the original.
This story is just so well-written and intriguing, and while Washington Irving's version has its merits, I believe Benet was able to transform Irving's story and give it a new life and zest that Irving's story lacks.
My professor assigned this story to be read near Halloween, and I would highly recommend reading it around that time because it puts you in a spooked and somber mood!
After a farmer makes a deal with the devil, he brings in a lawyer to get him out of the contract. Not as cynical as it sounds, I enjoyed this short story (and the black-and-white illustrations colored in by a young library patron with crayons).
Humorous, fascinating, easy going. The devil’s ultimate challenge, Daniel Webster, is the best lawyer in the world. A lawyer that is bound by morality and justice, bold and daring and without fear of the devil and its nonsense; Funny, amusing, and highly recommended.
The best part of this book was the judge who returned to judge Daniel Webster's arguement in "court." He was the judge from the Salem Witch Trials. Great book to read if you have 40 minutes to spare.
Do you think you could win your soul back from the devil? Successful Daniel Webster thinks he can. Read and see if Daniel succeeds or ends up being part of the devil's prized collection.
read this play as it was recommended on "my life in books" but so very dissappointed. A rubbish american cut down version of Fautus.
Very interesting as most folklore involving the Devil.
The Devil and Daniel Webster is interesting. The American dream is, anyone from any one class can work hard and become a success, but this unlucky farmer becomes a success because he makes a deal with the devil and through the democratic process is let free. The story comments on the idealism of what it means to be an American and shows the reality, that in America, the rich can become wealthy without deserving it and guilty men can go free. The story is unfair to the Devil, but I suppose that is one of the many possibilities in America.
Delightful, very short novella (or long short story). I had seen the 1947 movie years ago, with Walter Huston and Edward Arnold, and thoroughly enjoyed it. Didn't realize, until I stumbled across the book, that it was written by Stephen Vincent Benet. The language has the deliberate cadence and wry self-awareness that I associate with Washington Irving (a favorite of mine). The story is a familiar one (think of Faust) but with a bit of a twist at the end.
"Neighbor, how stands the Union?"As well-written a tall tale as ever graced America's fictional landscape. Daniel Webster beats back Old Scratch with a firey and stubborn faith...though not so much faith in the Almighty as in the Constitution and his own oratorical powers. Not to be missed.
A Classic!I read this book as a child and loved it. With the events of the last election I chose to read again 50 years later and the moral and ethical undertones resonate today as they did then. Should bring required reading.
Fun and folkloric. It was sin and weakness that led poor Jabez Stone to finally buy prosperity with his soul, much as the US bargained with the devil when it warred and enslaved to achieve its great success. Whether or not we as a country can be forgiven is this story's central question.
For his voice could search the heart, and that was his gift and his strength. I have thoroughly enjoyed reading this. And love the voice of the narrator.
In this case the movie was better than the book. I did like the book, there's a great moral to the story; however the movie itself is excellent. It is from 1941.
I read this book the first time when I was in high school.The second time reading this was in play version which I have to say is probably different from the prose version.
To my understanding, it is very difficult to find the prose version and so I have to make do with the play version.
I remember the story being far more inventive than that - how else could it have lasted so long in the world of literature?
Perhaps my age and distance from the book have changed my view of it, in the long run.
A folk-tale about righteousness and patriotism - The Devil and Daniel Webster tells a fictional story about the real life famous lawyer, Daniel Webster, and his dispute with the Devil over Jabez Stone's immortal soul. As appropriate as it was for the time period, and as laden with imagery - it was still a rather dry read. Interesting to pick apart in a class room setting, yet still - a bit of a snooze.
Some of the best historical fiction I've read concerns duping the devil (i.e. Faust) out of a bargain, and this is no exception. Here Daniel Webster acts as the "attorney" to get someone else out of the devil's clutches. Reminds me why Shakespeare said "kill all the lawyers"!!A great story, and an even better play.
This is one of my favorite American folktales. It combines the classic Faustian plot with a fair telling of American history and New England personality. Fun to read it aloud again, this time to the kids.
Okay, so this isn't really a book per say. It's really a short story. However, I absolutely love it and read it at least once every year. I would suggest that everyone read this at least once in their lives simply because it is overly interesting!
Great Short Story. Was referred to it by my Mechanics of Materials Professor (Prof. Sadeghi). It does have a lot of american pride and shows how two men with courage can take up the devil himself. Short and sweet!
I was going through a box of books that my son had in school and found this one. To be quite honest, I had never read it. I have since rectified that situation. Such a fun short story. I would suggest it for all of those who have pride in being an American or in freedom itself.
I really enjoyed this short story. The symbolism, deeper meaning in the authors words give good insight between the differences of God, man, and Satan. It's a quick read, and well worth the time!
This humorous short story has all the swagger of an American tall tale. Very enjoyable read.
The Devil and Daniel Webster is a great short story and being from New Hampshire, am surprised that I'd never heard of it until I saw it on the library's shelf while looking for another book.
A short piece with a deliberate feel of a piece of tall-tale-telling. A must, really, for any lawyer.
