https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213916.Evidence_Not_Seen
my favorite biography. I lost my copy but then found another one for $2 on clearance... little did I know at the time that it was signed!!! here's what Darlene wrote:Dear [friend's name:],May you know and give testimony to the love and greatness of our God!Without Him, I would not have survived!! But I do thank Him for every thing He allowed in my life ~ it was there I truly came to know Him!LovinglyDarleneDeut 33:12
Review to come when I am not an emotional wreck and can digest everything I just read!UPDATED REVIEW:Wow wow wow!
Mrs. Rose's writing style is pretty much all description and almost no dialogue (rather normal for an autobiography, I guess), which was somewhat hard to wade through, but I am so glad I didn't put this down!
That was one thing I really liked about this book; Mrs. Rose was clearly a very humble, self effacing woman, and that was depicted in the writing.
Definitely a must read!
"Lassie, whatever you do, be a good soldier for Jesus Christ." Darlene Rose's life was amazing and terrible at the same time! Her faith in Jesus Christ was so encouraging to me - she trusted in him even through terrible situations! It makes me wonder if I really trust Him the way I should! "Yes, come, Lord Jesus, come quickly." The things she had to go through while she was in the concentration camp was incredible. The diseases, the sicknesses, the deaths; it made me want to hug her and the res
Darlene Rose's life was amazing and terrible at the same time!
Her faith in Jesus Christ was so encouraging to me - she trusted in him even through terrible situations!
At the end, she was thinking she was sixty going on a hundred!This book has a very strong impact in my life - she and her husband were missionaries like me and my family, but went through so much more than we'll ever go through ourselves!
It is so amazing what the Lord brought Darlene and so many other people through!
This is one of my favorite books because Mrs. Rose actually shared the Gospel with my grandmother, and I believe that my grandmother came to know the Lord right before she died. I thank God for Mrs. Rose. She has an amazing testimony and her faith had an impact on my family. Truly, God works in mysterious ways :)
The author somehow manages to find hope and joy in the midst of terrible conditions and treatment whilst incarcerated.
She clings to her faith at the times of greatest trial.Personally, I struggled with the depth and length of some of the emotional recall especially in relation to spiritual matters.
Maybe it is just a reading preference, but I found some of her emotions difficult to relate to and there are just some things which are too personal to include in a book.I recommend this book for those who struggle in life or who think they have been "dealt a bad hand" by God. Maybe this story will give some perspective to people.
How the Lord used her, and where He took her is an incredible story of faith and miracles, and blessings amidst unbelievable hardships.
Evidence Not Seen is the story of Darlene Deibler, who lived, survived, and perhaps in an odd way, thrived in a Japanese prison camp during World War II.
It details how she was captured, and many of the day to day occurrences that took place in a camp full of undernourished and overworked women separated from their husbands, brothers, and sons.
It is amazing to read of the many, many miracles which the Lord blessed Darlene with.
I was told a long time ago I should read this book, and even started it once - back several years ago when I was in Indonesia.
I left though before I had time to finish the book, so I picked it up again last month and am thankful I did.
This story is an extraordinary one about faith, following God no matter what the cost, and how amazing it is when people go through hard times and come out better because of it.
This book has a lot of sadness, but also a lot of glimpses at God's abundant grace, power, and love.
i first heard darlene diebler rose when i was about 10 years old at a week of missionary speakers at our church.
i grew up and never heard of her again, until i was listening to focus on the family and heard a missionary being interviewed by dr.
she was being interviewed about a book she had just written.
i ordered the book immediately and was thrilled to read some stories i remembered from her speaking, and many more i had never heard before.
i got her address from focus on the family and wrote to her.
Darlene Deibler Rose spent 8 years in New Guinea, over 4 of those as a POW during WWII.
I am thankful she went through the pain to courageously share her experiences.Darlene Deibler Rose tops the list of those I would like to meet in Heaven where surely pumpkin spice lattes and a comfy couch before a fire can be found.
Wow, just wow! This will be a favorite of mine for the rest of my life! Her captivating story made it hard to put this book down. Her courage, faith in God, and answered prayers were such a challenge to my own life! God will never leave me, and no one is beyond God’s love and forgiveness.
This is the autobiographical story of a young woman who dedicated her life to God as a child.
Little suspecting the pain and suffering she would endure in the fulfillment of her promise.
But in her trials, the promise of God's faithfulness proved stronger than any disease, any loss, and any Japanese officer.
But it is in no way lacking, for the whole book is saturated with a genuine spirit of joy.
This book made me tear up more than once, and was interesting and encouraging.
Why am I drawn to true stories of people who suffer under the hands of ruthless political leaders? Here's another one. Deibler tells her experience of being a missionary in New Guinea as WWII erupts and when the Japanese invade, she becomes a POW for several years. Her story is insightful but I was uncomfortable with how freely she described deep, profoundly spiritual experiences that sustained her during her imprisonment. Her faith is pure, but some things should be too sacred to share with the world.
This is probably my favorite book. It is an amazing true story of a missionary who was caught in the turmoil of World War II. Though she did not "deserve" to be placed in a prison camp, she used this opportunity to grow in faith rather than in bitterness. What stood out most to me was her focus on God.Many prison camps had instances which are morally wrong. While Darlene Diebler Rose included some of the true facts, she did it discreetly, reflecting the grief that she felt for the sin.
A heart breaking and thrilling story that is absolutely TRUE about a missionary couple who become POWs in different Japanese camps during World War 2. The wonderful and amazing story of how "ordinary" American missionaries can rise to do extraordinary things when they surrender their lives to Jesus. A "Must Read" that will plant itself deep into your heart.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. Darlene's story is so beautiful, so raw, and yet sweetened with unwavering faith all the way through. It's one of the few books (other than the Bible, of course!) which I can honestly say, changed the way I looked - and lived - my life.

Very inspiring book about Darlene Deibler’s life and unshakable faith as a missionary and POW in the jungles of New Guinea, during World War 2.
When the Japanese took over the island, Darlene and her husband were separated into separate Japanese prison camps, one for women and young boys and the other for men.
Darlene's story is full of details about what occurred in these camps, but underlying everything, through all of the pain and suffering, Darlene's faith never failed her.
Her intense belief in God and strong faith lead her through four years of harsh conditions, and even when she found out her husband died in the men's camp, she perseveres and stays strong because of her unfailing belief in God's hand in her life and in all things.
Very inspiring story of a missionary in WWII Papa New Guinea.
Darlene Deibler Rose describes her ordeal as she is imprisoned in a Japanese camp, deep in the jungle.
Deprivation, starvation, bombings and beatings are just some of the tortures she survives, by God's grace.
I find I like reading books like this, seeing people's faith in action, and God's provision for them in the midst of horrific circumstances.
And unlike characters in similar books I've seen, Rose is no Pollyanna, sitting pretty and spouting platitudes...
she shares her real life -doubts, fears and sufferings ..
I hope to read more books like this one.

I appreciated this faith-affirming book, especially seeing how God protected and provided for this missionary. I only gave it three stars, instead of four, because some of it moved fairly slowly -- especially the middle of the book when she described the many different people in her barrack. I guess I would have preferred she just clued in on a few key fellow prisoners. However, the story itself is evidence of a beautiful life submitted to the Father, and I appreciated the historical setting. I admire the author's resolve, courage and faith that was tried by fire to shine.
A woman's miraculous faith in a Japanese prison during WWII. Darlene, an American missionary endured 4 years of forced labor and cruel deprivation at the hands of the Japanese Army during WW2. She lost all she had except her faith in God. Despite all this, less than 4 years later,she chose to return to New Guinia for nearly 30 more years. (8 years before the war started, she had arrived in the interior of N.G. with her husband Russell on their 1st anniversary)
Next to my Bible this is my all-time favorite book. I have read this book several times. If I get to feeling sorry for myself this is my go-to book. It also reminds me of God's great love and His plans for my life even in the midst of difficult storms.
I pretty much sobbed through the last two chapters. As I turned the last page, Three things were imprinted in my mind: the beauty of forgiving your enemies, value of hiding the Word in your heart, and how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news- even feet infected with jungle rot.
Read this book. She's a real person, whom God really sustained through tremendous trials.
I read this book in my teens and remember being fascinated by it and also wishing I could be as pretty and godly as this girl. Haha, little 15 year old Allison....
Darlene walked through the valleys- of dry bones, of shadows, of death itself to come on the other side a stronger saint, a stronger soldier for Christ; & it’s because she saw every moment as a gift, an intentional opportunity from God to bear His image, as we were created to do.
Darlene Deibler Rose chose to follow God’s voice throughout the peaks & many valleys of life, knowing that it is better to be in His will, no matter the cost.
This book was a book-club read.
For book club, i picked up a newer copy and felt the same way as I began—I think I got bogged down in so many people and details—but halfway through the book—it changed and grabbed my attention.
It is an amazing story of a newly married woman missionary in the 1930’s who worked in New Guinea and spent the war in a Japanese POW camp.
Her story of faith and perseverance is an amazing one.
Finish the story for your own edification.
I read this book shortly after my Mom died, seeing that I needed to be thoroughly grounded in a vision of the purposes of life.
This book brought me to tears and a heart bursting in awe at the faithfulness my God. The impressions left with me from this read will last a lifetime.
My personal takeaways from the glimpse of Darlene’s life, has encouraged me to continue learning beautiful hymns, scripture, and poetry with my children that glorifies my Lord.
This book is a clear portrayal of how Hod can work all things for good for His children, and even great tragedies are made lovely in light of eternity.
I have underlined a number of spots through out the book.
This bit especially struck my heart, "In the quiet of the shadowed cell, He answered back within my heart: 'That's what I delight to do, the exceeding abundant above anything you ask or think.' I knew in those moments that nothing is impossible to my God." I don't want to give away what lead up to that but this moment was sublime.
This book will be one that I read again and again.
I will purchase extras and give them away because this story needs to be read.
