https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114170.Then_Came_You
Lily Lawson is such a great heroine. This is one of the books I love more for the heroine than the hero, although I really loved Alex Raiford. This is Lily's story. She is not perfect and she is considered a fallen woman. But the grit, and the determination she has makes you love her for who she is. Alex cannot resist her, and falls hard for her. I thought this book was so passionate and intense. The words just jump off the page and into your heart.Keira Knightley as LilyMatthew Marsden as Alex
I started the book very much loving her vivacious, witty, and incorrigible behavior; however, by the end of the story my love affair with her had waned.
Her strong and willful nature started grating on my nerves, and (view spoiler)[her unwillingness to communicate or confide her heartbreaking secret to the hero until the last few chapters of the book frustrated me to no end (hide spoiler)].
Fortunately, the ending more than made up for all my frustration throughout much of this story.
Even though my first taste of Lisa Kleypas was not quite as satisfying as I had hoped, I was wise to continue giving her a try.
Quizás no es una novela perfecta y serían 4.5, pero le voy a dar las 5!!!Es una puera guerra, entre voluntades.
Con dos personajes dolidos que muestran una actitud tan diferente ante su dolor.
Sí que es cierto que en ciertas escenas a la autora se le va un poco la mano, pero me ha arrancado más de una carcajada con esas locuras.
Asumo que estos protagonistas tan fríos y snobs que lo único que tienen es una coraza para evitar volver a sentir dolor, son mi debilidad!!!
Me gustan estas historias en las que los protagonistas son tan semejantes que están en contínuo enfrentamiento de voluntades.
spoiler warning There is a huge misunderstanding. Hero is leaving with his righteous anger. Heroine calls out to him and he stops. Heroine explains without turning it into huge ball of omissions. They talk it out and solve the problem. Aaannd romance readers everywhere cries!!!Finally! This book gets a 5 stars rating just for that scene from me. I really liked the heroine and the hero as a cherry on top =)
ME ENCANTA!!!Al fin se me está pasando mi bloqueo, gracias Lisa Kleypas.Ya necesitaba un libro así q
Lily y Alex son personajes súper carismáticos.
Comparten escenas desopilantes, que me hicieron reír a carcajadas, y otras cargadas de una ternura deliciosa.
«—Escúchame con atención, Wilhemina.
Tus errores, tu pasado, tus temores… nada de eso va a cambiar lo que siento por ti.
Wilhemina está llena de temores e ilusiones, desea que la amen.
Y Lily es fuerte y valiente, y le diría al mundo que se fuera al infierno si quisiera.—¿A cuál de las dos prefieres?
Alex le levantó la barbilla para mirarla a los ojos, y sonrió.—A ti.
Hasta el último pedazo de ti».Otra genialidad de Lisa Kleypas.
Maravillosa novela, absolutamente original en el género, tanto por sus personajes como por la historia, que es increíblemente emotiva, sobre todo acercándonos al final, cuando se va develando y solucionando el oscuro pasado de Lily. Me gustó mucho como va evolucionando la personalidad de los dos personajes principales, influenciados por el temperamento del otro, tanto que el libro se podría dividir en dos. En resumen, excelente autora, excelente libro... hace tiempo que no sacrificaba tantas horas de sueño, por no poder postergar la lectura.
I really loved how both characters fight, and bicker but you can tell they’re one and the same, when Lily shows Alex what he’s been hiding behind his past pains making it his armor, Alex shows Lily that not all people are the same.
The sensual level is right up there, but don’t expect love scenes ever chapter, it builds through the book but does not disappoint when it does happen and how it comes about!
I liked this one. Strong heroine. Strong hero. Bit of a back story with her history. Oh she hadn't expected to enjoy this so much. She had never felt such pure delight in provoking a man.  "Lily, don't be afraid. I want to please you. Trust me."  "Say yes," his fingers curled into her hair. "Say yes, darling." Bit pressed for time with reviews at the moment.  It was unfashionable for a husband to dote openly on his wife, but Alex didn't seem to care.
I re-read this one, needing a book where I could really LOVE the hero after plowing through a surfeit of tortured, arse-hole heroes.And I certainly do love the hero, Alex.
We have a strong yet vulnerable heroine, Lily.
And we have a passionate, caring hero who does his utmost to win Lily's trust and support her through everything.
If you are looking for a hero who has depth, integrity and honour, however, then read this book!I blinked and sighed and thought: I need to marry that man!
Συνανάγνωση με Γκεο, Τζένη, Μαριλένα και Άννα 💕
I was shocked to learn I hadn't done reviews on this series and that has GOTTA change now!!
Because quite frankly both of these books are amazing.
Well quite frankly quite a bit.
We have our heroine, who is unconventional, wild and free and doesn't like to be tied to.
She likes to ride, hunt, shoot, wear trousers and jump into freezing waters for a thrill.
Well she isn't any typical heroine.
Re reading this book was a fun ride and I can't believe I hadn't read this one in so long.
He just can’t stand the “screw you”, devil-may-care attitude of Lily Lawson and does everything he can to get one up on her, but this little hellcat gets the better of him nearly every single time.
She hunts, rides, gambles and swears like a sailor without flinching and everyone loves her for it.This is much hotter steam than your typical regency fare.
This is a must-read for anyone who likes a my-way-or-the-highway protective alpha who gets his comeuppance in spades from a heroine who can give as good, if not better, as she gets :D
o_OThe scene in which Lily loses a wager to Alex, in Derek's club and the way everyone deals with it, was extremely cringe-worthy and less than romantic.The fact that the characters insist on not making use of their tongs, for things known as, speaking to one another!Hey, apparently I disliked it more than I had realized!
Ingeniosa. Pasional. Atípica. Una novela de personajes. Alex, Lily y Dereck son de esos personajes que acabas recordando a pesar de muchos libros leídos... Son carismáticos, potentes, distintos... Varias de las escenas me han parecido magníficas.Para mí, uno de los mejores de Lisa😍
Maybe, I had read it with rose coloured glasses?
I had to confirm that Lisa Kleypas is and was one of the Queens of Historical Romance.What a bloody fool I'd been.
Alex was amazing, sexy, bossy and sweet.
I loved him...and Lily was ok too...for a heroine.The storyline was captivating, the characters interesting and the sexy times steamy.
Everything I hope for in my favourite historical romance reads.Honestly, Rosalyn Landor is one of the best narrators I've listened to.
I could always tell when a character changed.Loved listening to Then Came You and hope to listen to more Lisa Kleypas in the future.
Aquí lo mejor son los protagonistas, XD como me han gustado¡¡ sin lugar a duda son mi pareja preferida de todos los libros de Lisa que he leído y ya me he leído unos cuantos.
Me ha gustado muchísimo esta evolución tanto de uno como de otroY yo que me leí Sueño contigo antes que este porque no tenía ni idea que eran dos libros.
Llamadme zoquete, y si aquel me gusto, allí conocí a mi oscuro Derek Craven… aingngngngngngnrrr este me ha vuelto loca y reconozco que Cuando tú llegaste es mejor Una pareja que se me va a quedar en la memoria durante mucho, pero mucho tiempo.
Overall rating: 3 starsCheating: NoLove triangle: Not really though hero is engaged to heroine's sister for first half -- there is no romance between them though -- it is not an engagement based on love or affectionAnything sexual with om/ow: NoThemes that may be triggers for some: dubious consensual sexHEA/HFN: HEAMy review:Unfortunately, this book was overall a disappointment for me.
Things are happening non-stop and I actually enjoyed much of the plot happenings.If you don’t mind push pull romances – or dubious consent situations -- I think this book would be just fine.
5+ stars – Historical/Regency RomanceAlthough I’d previously read and  loooved  Kleypas’s Travis’s series, this was the first historical romance of hers that I read, and it’s no wonder that she’s such an incredibly popular romance author. The relationship between wild spitfire spinster Lily Lawson and stodgy Alex, Lord Raiford, from bitter antagonism to explosive passion that turns to cordial respect and then deep affection, is sheer magic to behold. This book inflamed my LK admiration that firs
5+ stars – Historical/Regency RomanceAlthough I’d previously read and 
Kleypas’s Travis’s series, this was the first historical romance of hers that I read, and it’s no wonder that she’s such an incredibly popular romance author.
This book inflamed my LK admiration that first began with my love for Sugar Daddy and then continued with my utter enjoyment of the entire Travis’s series, Dreaming of You, Again the Magic, and most recently with the Wallflowers series.
I look forward to more wonderful books by this remarkably gifted author!
It all starts when Lily decides that a man her younger sister is going to marry is not going to be good for her.
You can't blame him for that really, because the first time he saw her was at a party when she jumped into the Thames to get her bonnet.
A reader knows she is right about her sister's happiness, but she doesn't have that luxury.They both have their past demons to exorcise and in due course of the story they do just that.
I liked Alex a lot, especially his reaction to Lily's secret.
This book was a bit of a mixed bag. I enjoyed both characters in their own right, but they also both did inexcusable things to one another. By the end they were quite charming, but this book was actually fairly horrifying at times.
It was certainly emotional at times because of that.However, she started making really bad decisions, and it went downhill from there.
There were a lot of drama & angst in the 2nd of the book – and I’m not a fan of the extended secrecy trope.
It was sweet and emotional at times, but I didn’t really like how some things turned out.Things that you might want to know (WARNING: Spoilers below)Is there a happy/satisfying ending?
(view spoiler)[Yep, and a heartwarming epilogue.
(hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[Yep, some emotional shit.
(view spoiler)[Some funny bits, because the heroine and hero have a love-hate relationship.
(hide spoiler)]What age level would be appropriate?
This book is so
Ha tenido momentos divertidos, tristes, románticos y desesperantes también (ese final tan precipitado me ha quedado cojo) Le recomiendo si eres fan de Kleypas y te gustan las historias de protagonistas fuertes y condes estirados.Ahora voy a por el de Derek, el cual no ha sido santo de mi devoción en este libro y del que espero cambiar de opinión en el suyo.
Hacia tiempo que no leía un libro de lisa y me he vuelto a reencontrar con esta gran autora ... Esta saga promete mucho , la protagonista es fuerte, independiente ( por las circunstancias ) y con un punto de excéntricidad que me ha encantado...Alex es un amor y ahora empieza siendo una cosa luego se descubre cómo un verdadero hombre enamorado ... La historia tiene su aquel y solo he echado de menos un poco más de acción ....
Sabia que me iba a encantar al leer los primeros capitulos y así fue.El relato de Lisa nunca me es indiferente y sus obras son un encantador de serpientes en mi, me cuesta mucho soltarlas en cuanto comienzo con la primer página y luego no quiero encontrar la palabra FIN. El único consuelo es que tengo un libro más para leer con personajes ya conococidos.
Mi segundo libro de la Kleypas y tengo que reconocer que entiendo porqué es una de las "reinas" del género.A pesar de no ser muy de enaguas, he disfrutado mucho su lectura, quizás al final ha flojeado un poco para mi gusto, pero he estado casi todo el libro encantada con las idas y venidas de Lily y Alex.Preparándome para empezar el segundo, Mr. Craven ya me ha cautivado en éste, así que tendremos emociones aseguradas ;)
:-) Luckily for Lisa she has this ability to write these stories that make you want to pick them back up and feel that tenderness again and again, and thus makes her books 'keepers'!Reread: March 17-23, 2011Lily Lawson is an unconventional young woman of her time.
Then Came You is filled with such a rich intensity of romance, love, and passion that it is hard to put down.
The sort of passion he had for Lilly and his need for her love was just the sort of romance you want to read about.
Have I ever said how much I love this woman!?
Kleypas is simply the historical romance queen!Although this book wasn’t my favourite of her works, it was still pretty damn good!
But based on her personal experiences with men, I don’t blame her for feeling that way.
Where Lily is flamboyant and shameless, Alex is unemotional and cautious.
No, I’m not sadist, but I find pleasure in watching Alex nearly have an aneurysm at some of the things Lily does.
It just so  cute!And now I have reached what I have been desperately waiting for: DEREK CRAVEN!
Me gustó mucho, me pareció muy entretenido y ellos dos forman una gran pareja.
