https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267478.Lamb_in_His_Bosom
It’s not an easy book to locate for borrowing purposes, but it was well worth the investment!Margaret Mitchell’s Gone with the Wind is one of my all-time favorite novels, and Lamb in His Bosom I believe should take a spot on the shelf right next to it.
The narrative focuses on Cean Smith from the time of her early marriage to Lonzo throughout her multiple childbirths and ending with the close of the Civil War. This is not a Civil War novel, however.
I told her I was going to finish my errands, then go home and settle in with a book.
I should have told her I planned to go home and dive back into this novel of what it took to survive in those years.
You want drama, try building a home and a farm with nothing but your own strength and knowledge of how to get it done.
Try giving birth to 13 children, not all of whom survive.
I hate to leave this world and the people I grew to love, but one of the truly wonderful things about books is that you can return to these places any time you wish.
The story is about a family of dirt-poor Georgia farmers and takes place in the decades leading up to the Civil War. In researching the novel, Miller, who was from a small Georgia town, would “go on excursions with her children, keeping her eyes peeled for old people who lived in old houses and might have stories to tell.” There's no recorded history of Georgian subsistence farmers from that time, which makes this novel extremely valuable.
These characters are ignorant and stunted, but also filled with dignity, grit, and common sense.All this makes Lamb in His Bosom a perfect novel for anyone who’s interested in the period.However, if you’re just looking for something to read, this is not the book for you.
This book is the only one of its type that I've ever read: from the pov of poor farmers pre-civil war (and during, too) who did not have slaves.
The book travels through decades, and shows what happens to these people through birth, marriages, life, death, disasters, etc.Never again will I complain about my life (I'll try not to, pinky swear!); I can't imagine how difficult it must have been to survive back then.
This is no exaggeration; Caroline Miller was decades ahead of her time in the way she wrote her lovely book.2.
I discovered a lot reading this book...a lot I didn't know already, I mean.The view from 2017 back to 1933, when this book first appeared, feels like a greater gap than the one between 1933 and 1830s Georgia.
It gave Cean satisfaction to know about it.Just gorgeous, also exactly right, pitch perfect, and mercy on us all such a relief from the excessive flagellation poor, starchy, unbending Cean receives from This Our Life.I must say that the losses Cean endures through the War are enough to convince me that, had I to suffer them, would've made me much more receptive to the "charms" of religion.
This 1934 Pulitzer winner deals with a backwoods country existence in rural Georgia, following the Carver / Smith families until shortly after the Civil War. Over the course of several decades, the book explores what life was like for these farmers of pre-Civil War America.
Cean Carver Smith is the focus of much of the novel.
Over the course of the book she gives birth to fourteen children, mourns the death of several of her family members, endures moments of panic, and perseveres with courage and dignity.
What is so special about the book is that it gives voice to the majority of rural farmers of this era.
A Lamb in His Bosom: Caroline Miller's Antebellum SouthI was enthralled by Miller's portrayal of the strength of the yeoman farmer class in the wiregrass and piney woods of antebellum Georgia.
I found Miller's development of strong and independent women to produce a work appropriately considered an early of feminist literature.
I consider Lamb in His Bosom to be very deserving of its 1934 Pulitzer Prize.
While I Recognize Gone with the Wind a beloved work of literature, Caroline Miller wrote a novel more realistically portraying a truer world of the South and its people.
This winner of the Pulitzer Prize the year before Gone With The Wind is the life story of Cean and Lonzo who newly married set out to build their lives in the backwoods of Georgia. A simply told story ( including terms like howsomever) of the self reliance required in a time when the daily chores of life such as growing crops and raising 14 children made you very old before age 40. 4 stars Sept OTSLT
Cean, her mother Seen, and Margot who leaves a physically easier but morally deficient life to join them in the wilderness that borders the Okefenokee swamp, are the ones who make endurance and joy possible, bring life into being, nurture the living and prepare the dead for burial.I could not help thinking of my own grandmother who bore eleven children and buried three of them either at birth or within a year of it.
She pulls us into a world where birth and death are intimately linked and life is either a blessing or a curse depending on how capricious you believe God to be.

I will come back to this one, some day. Perhaps. I just didn't feel any magic, after 40 pages or so, and it's much too hot to be reading a song of the south that doesn't deliver from the get-go, when it's 40C in the shade! My mind kept drifting towards Conrad Richter's Awakening Land trilogy, (which also won the Pulitzer) and how I fell into it like a cool drink of water; this one was merely tepid. Like Cean in the novel, "I be thinkin' on it sum a'fore I set my min' to it agin."
An exceptional accounting of antebellum south Georgia pinywoods pioneers, exquisitely written. The title coming from a psalm/hymn "How Firm a Foundation" that was a favorite of Cean's mother - "when hoary hairs shall their temples adorn/Like lambs in My bosom they shall be born".
The days of a great numbers of births but possibly just a few adult children after all was of your elder age.
In a day when elder age and ill health could be any time after 40.
And when most of your food didn't come from any market let alone in a condition ready to cook or prepare for eating.In other words, it's about marriage and family in the rural backwoods Southern USA homestead of more than 150 years ago.
Nearly everything has changed since then; it has for most places on all continents altered immensely in the last 200 years.
I read Lambs in His Bosom after visiting the Margaret Mitchell house in Atlanta and learning that this novel was her favorite book.
Fascinated and curious as to what moved Margaret Mitchell, I bought the book right there, in the gift shop and read it right away.
It is interesting to me that the author who romanticized the old south aristocracy was influenced by a book about the southern poor, whose lives were so remote that they hardly knew there was a war going on beyond the boundary of their land.
She was the first of many great southern women writers.......all of whom I intend to read!
In the 20-year history of our book club, one devoted to reading classics and Pulitzer and Nobel prize winning lit., we rarely have one that has brought as much acclaim as this book.
Several of us had read the book and recommended it for years.
The outdated title was off-putting to the other group members.
They were all pleasantly astounded and still recommend it to any newcomers that attend our group with misty eyed fondness.
Perhaps the title, which uses religious references that are not played out in a major way in the book, not to mention the archaic word "bosom," should be changed to make the book more assessable today.
My great-great aunt wrote this book and i have one of the first copies ever printed in 1933. i love the book because of all the work that she put into it just to write the story. Miller actually me with people and collected stories and wrote the book. it is very interesting from a historical and language aspect. read it!
1) Classic Bingo 2016-->O5 Prize Winning Female Author2) Women's Lit Enthusiasts January 2016 BOTMThis amazing book won the Pulitzer in 1934 and richly and justly deserves to be more widely known.
She was the first Georgian to win this award, soon followed by Margaret Mitchell's Gone with the Wind.
However, Ms. Miller wrote about the poor farmers who did not own slaves and who labored from morning to night making a living.This book was a realistic picture of the life of a farmer, Lonzo, and his wife, Cean, in the period before the Civil War and contrasts strongly to idealized propaganda written by Margaret Mitchell.
However, most of the book was engrossing and I would recommend that everyone who has read Gone with the Wind read this book in order to get a "fair and balanced view" of life in Georgia.
(Some of the characters' ways of thinking are backward and offensive by our standards, especially regarding racial issues, but it is a book about uneducated people from a time long ago, and it can be valuable to see how far we've come racially, socially, medically [if you cut your foot back then and got an infection, you basically died], and in so many other ways.
It's definitely better to live in our time than in any other.) This book won a Pulitzer and as sometimes happens, I'm glad I read it just because it won a Pulitzer.
I've read quite a few fantastic books just because they won a Newbery, too.
DON'T read only books that won one of these two awards, but DEFINITELY mix some in!
If you are looking for a book with a strong female protagonist, I highly recommend this regional novel set in rural Georgia in the first half of the 19th century.
Although it shares a general setting with Gone in the Wind, the two books couldn't be further apart in culture.
This book gives us both insight and empathy for these women, especially illuminating the spirituality that gave them both strength and hope and burdened them with guilt and sorrow.
Its financial and literary success led to greater interest in Georgia literature and the discovery of Gone With the Wind.
The authenticity of the characters and their world is what makes such a startling read, especially considering that the poor white southern antebellum story is one that - at least at the time of Caroline Miller's writing - lay largely undocumented.
The speech, thoughts, ideas, and general inner workings of the characters make the plight of Cean Smith/Carver/O'Connor viscerally affecting.
It may be more of a picture in the end, but I personally love these meandering stories that work their magic slowly.
A whole world is conjured up before our eyes and ears, in what is sometimes the most gorgeously poetic prose I've read.
Caroline Miller writes simply, with (as Elizabeth Fox-Genovese says in the Afterwords) "an extraordinary fidelity to the language of those she was writing about." This is a rare excursion into a time and place and people that history has never had much interest in, or information about.
Caroline Miller came from roots in the frontier history of Georgia, and used her understanding and background to build this beautiful story by connecting with others who were the legacy of generations of Georgia backwoods farmers and poor whites.
It also could apply to almost any American pioneer family in the country: out-of-use names for things, the hard work it took to do things we take for granted, the frustration of a woman who is pregnant most of her life.
Ms. Miller gets into the minds of both the women and men very convincingly.According to her bio at the back of the book, she spent lots of time talking to elderly people who were the first to move to the area where she lived in Baxley, Georgia.
This book by far educated me as to the life of a woman of her time.
Caroline Miller informs her readers about the people and life of the back woods of rural Georgia during the ante-bellum period of the US.
More than that though, she teaches her readers about human endurance, suffering, hope, and constancy.
We follow Cean--as mother, wife, daughter, and sister--through her struggles to become a woman she can look in the mirror and be proud of.
The first half of the novel paces more slowly, leisurely letting us get to know the families and their situations.
The second half narrates more drama and culminates with a perspective while not totally unexpectedly, certainly intriguely.
Winner of the 1934 Pulitzer prize. The story of Cean Carver Smith and her family, farmers in backwoods Georgia before and during the Civil War. While writing this novel, Caroline Miller went around visiting old-timers in her area and closely observed their dialect and learned from them the old ways of doing things. Some chapters are like reading an issue of Foxfire. Lamb In His Bosom was a powerful read and reminded me a great deal of The Awakening Land trilogy. I'm sure Conrad Richter was heavily influenced by Caroline Miller.
It took me a while to get vested, but once I was, this was a very moving read. A nice change of pace from my other recent reading, and a great, humanizing reminder of how alike we all are.
Winner of the 1934 Pulitzer Prize, this novel portrays life in rural Georgia before the Civil War. Interesting mix of stories. I really liked the use of dialect in this book. The book also touched on different social issues of the time period. Interesting contrast to Gone with the Wind which won the Pulitzer Prize three years later.
Coming soon
I haven't read Gone with the Wind so I can't compare them but we're told that this book was Margaret Mitchell's favorite.
It seems that no one knew how to express their feelings so people loved and hated but we never really know WHY they loved and hated...Cean's husband was a good man who loved her and fathered 14 of her children.
In fact, he never said so himself to his dying day but we assume he loved his wife because he was faithful to her and provided for the children.
My mother gave me this book for Christmas in 1999 and I never got around to reading it until now.
(Yawn.)But my mother has been nagging me for the past eight years to read this book, so I finally "forced" myself to read it to appease her.
What struck me the most was how similar these characters are to modern day people in terms of their thoughts and reactions to certain things, they are just set in a different time period, that's all.I found myself relating to these characters...
People who lived a couple of hundred years ago don't seem stuffy or Puritan at all when you read this book.
They seem like, well, the people we know today.
