https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1782395.The_Glory_of_the_Trenches
Sometimes it felt as though he were trying to convince himself about that 'glory', and other times he seemed quite certain that the only way a man can discover his true, heroic self was on the battlefield, as a nameless cog in the machinery of war.That idea felt so sad to me, and I confess that at one point I had the thought that if women manage to find their true heroic selves without killing other people, why is that a necessary action for men?He also says that a man can stand anything, can go through anything if he knows that his side is right.
Truly excellent. A must read.
Where the author recounts simple and basic things and puts aside his almost fanatic pro-war propaganda, this account is quite readable and imparts a few worthwhile insights.But the rest is barely bearable to take in and reminded me a lot of fascist texts of the same era also written by participants in the Great War. In a way it explains how so shortly after the first there could be a second war, given such tendencies.
What shocked me most was the complete lack of insight into what was taking place with and within the invalids of the Great War. Even for someone not remotely knowledgeable about repression, peer pressure or PTSD it should be clear what was being done to those men.
While certainly driven by ideology and unorthodox thinking, it contains many great truths and insights about the spiritual, unseen aspects of war: sacrifice, brotherhood, courage, acceptance of impending death and giving up the self for a higher purpose.
Much of this book will be difficult for civilians to comprehend, and the author says as much.
Some have called this book war propaganda, and even if that is the case, propaganda can nonetheless contain truths, which this book certainly does.
Read this book for what it is: a former seminary student turned Artillery Officer interpreting the battlefield spiritually, and attempting to extract beauty and meaning from the most horrific war in human history.
This is a short, first hand account of one man’s experience in the first World War. The world that he experienced was made vivid by his descriptive narrative of his journey from peacetime in the US to a hospital bed in England via France. Dawson really does think there is glory in the trenches, though. He views those that go to battle with an “Onward Christian Soldiers” attitude that becomes quite preachy and religious in the last bit of the book. I disagree with his worldview and some of his reasoning but his story is compelling and worth reading.
A remarkable story of WW1 trench warfare and the toll it extracted from the participants. The insight into the psychological/spiritual aspects of war & how men react/adapt/bond & what makes them continually push forward was especially rewarding. It's hard for my mind to really take in the magnitude of WW1.
