https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2165.The_Old_Man_and_the_Sea
Worst book ever.Just throw the fucking fish back in. Fuck.
I also understand that it celebrates the ridiculous American idea that you're only a REAL man if you've done something entirely purposeless, but really dangerous, in pursuit of making yourself look like the bull with the biggest sexual equipment.
However, if that's the point, then the plot situation needs to be one of necessity (like the shipwreck in Life of Pi), instead of stubbornness.************It's been a while since I wrote this review, and there's a lot of amusing speculation in the comments people have attached.
He's not insulted, I understand that we all need goals in life, and I've been happily married for a LONG time.
My very first time reading Papa and I absolutely LOVED IT. Sometimes the experience you have with a book can be effected by many things beyond the narrative itself, and I think that is certainly the case here. While I believe I would have loved this story regardless, there is no doubt that the stars aligned themselves perfectly to make this a singularly special read for me.Let me explain...Last year, I was in Napa with my wife and two of our best friends celebrating my (oh shit!!) 40th birthday
Well, this story slammed me and had me sucked in and captive from the very first words: “He was the old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he had gone eighty-four days now without taking a fish.” By the way, now would be a good time to mention that the audio version I listened to was read by Donald Sutherland, and the marriage of the story with Sutherland’s perfect narration was nothing short of magical.
I thought it was about a crazy old man gone off the reservation, picking a fight with an innocent fish while ranting about the New York Yankees ("I would like to take the great DiMaggio fishing.
There's an old man, Santiago, who is a fisherman fallen on hard times.
What follows is a dream-like, stream-of-conscious meditation as the old man matches strength and wits with the great fish.
Imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon, he thought.
'You did not kill the fish only to keep alive and to sell for food,' he thought.
"There isn't any symbolism. The sea is the sea. The old man is an old man. The boy is a boy and the fish is a fish. The sharks are all sharks no better and no worse. All the symbolism that people say is shit. What goes beyond is what you see beyond when you know." -Ernest Hemingway
The GOP has offered us a ready-made item to begin this list, and yes, I know that John Stewart already snagged this one and threw it back.I turned up a visual art concept that fits in, for a restaurant based on EH themes:Although I did not sit for this photo, the resemblance is indeed strikingAnd, of courseThe Old Man and the Cee Lo.I suppose am certain there are plenty more images one might lure into our net, but sticking to words for a bit, we will pass on the porn offering, The Old Man and the Semen.

521. The Old Man and The Sea, Ernest HemingwayThe Old Man and the Sea is a short novel written by the American author Ernest Hemingway in 1951 in Bimini, Bahamas, and published in 1952. It was the last major work of fiction by Hemingway that was published during his lifetime. One of his most famous works, it tells the story of Santiago, an aging Cuban fisherman who struggles with a giant marlin far out in the Gulf Stream off the coast of Cuba. In 1953, The Old Man and the Sea was awarded the Pul
It was the last major work of fiction by Hemingway that was published during his lifetime.
In 1953, The Old Man and the Sea was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, and it was cited by the Nobel Committee as contributing to their awarding of the Nobel Prize in Literature to Hemingway in 1954.عنوانها: مرد پیر و دریا - پیرمرد و دریا - ارنست همینگوی (نگاه) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1972 میلادیعنوان: مرد پیر و دریا؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: م.خ.
While we are arguing, my younger children are enquiring about the story we discuss, and we give them the details."Losing something means you really had it!"That is their conclusion, and while my eldest son and I start pondering whether or not the younger two are ready for the old man and the sea in Hemingway's own words, we continue walking, and life goes on, and a new generation of Hemingway readers find sense and meaning in his parable on the human struggle.We feel like saying: "I'm sorry, boat!", in the same way the old man said: "I'm sorry, fish!"But the fact that it lies there showing its naked metal ribs tells us it truly existed.
Santiago - a humble fisherman with no legendary crew to command and only his frail body instead of a Pequod to do his bidding.Ishmael is a young boy, who instead of being a "end is nigh" Nostradamus is a loving, weeping young boy who cares deeply about the world.Queequeg is probably the dolphin which was the old man's only hope against his foe, his brother.Now Moby Dick for me was the grand struggle of an obsessed genius with his destiny (in fact, about the creative struggle) - it proves that life is a tragedy and in the grand conclusion, you go down with a mighty confrontation and your ambitions take you down to the depths of the sea - no trace left of either you or your grand dreams except a mist of madness propagated as a half-heard story.This was profound and it moved me to tears - but it was still grand, was it not?
In spite of this run of poor luck, Santiago still returns to the seas on a daily basis, hopeful to catch the big fish that has alluded him for his entire life.
I have read a number of Pulitzers, and while the writing of this novella is enriching, I am left wondering if perhaps Hemingway won the award here as a crowning jewel on his life body of work.
The Old Man and the Sea looks back on an enriching life and won Hemingway a deserving award, if not for his lifetime of writing.
What I mistook for repetition was a literary device for emphasis and the boat, like the story, that I judged to be unmoving in the rolling seas was caught in a whirlpool churning the waters in its depth so that the boat and the old man at the sea were never at rest till the end.Although grounds for comparison do not exist, reading this novella, Orhan Pamuk came to mind.
A knackered old man dreaming on the seas of a big catch in a boat fit for the axe of a lumberjack with a young boy for a helper do not evoke the romantic world of heroic battles fought by the gun-wielding machismo of Hemingway's other stories.
“ ’But man is not made for defeat’ he said. ‘A man can be destroyed, but not defeated.’ ”I first encountered Hemingway in college. I was taking a humanities class, and the professor had us read Hemingway’s   The Nick Adams Stories . I fell in love with Hemingway’s short stories. I wrote an impassioned paper on the character of Nick and received an “A” for my efforts. Throughout the years, I have returned to Hemingway’s short stories, and novellas, and have never been disappointed.Fast forward 15
"Hemingway celebrates the daring and resolve of the old man.
Hemingway celebrates this man who goes thru life alone, ferocious, heroic, daring, showing what Hemingway views as the human spirt at its very best.
When the old man goes to war with the fish, he says repeatedly, “I wish the boy were here.”I am surprised that there is such animosity towards this brilliant work.
With their limited life experience, they cannot relate to the old man.Is there a place for Hemingway’s view of the world today?
Are there any people left in this world like the old man?
Le llevó un trabajo titánico y una lucha de cuarenta y cinco minutos sacarlo y todo esto haciendo pie en un lugar lleno de algas resbaladizas y con un equipo de pesca para peces de mucho menor peso y tamaño.Extenuado y con los brazos doloridos, finalmente lo sacó.
Jamás en mi vida vi a alguien pescar algo tan grande.“El viejo y el mar” es una novela inolvidable para mí, porque me remite siempre a esa experiencia que viví con mi padre.
نه ماهى هاى كوچك، نه نهنگ هاى بزرگ، خود خود دریا را.خانواده اش از این جنون به وحشت مى افتند و مى خواهند متوقفش كنند، مى گویند: اراده ى انسان حدى دارد و هر چیزى را نمى توان به دست آورد.
در یك روایت پیرمرد غرق مى شود و دریا تا همیشه از گرسنگان تور به دست مى ترسد.در یك روایت پیرمرد با اراده اش چنان تركى به نظم آفرینش مى اندازد كه بلور شكست ناپذیر كیهان به كل مى شكند و در هم فرو مى ریزد و هر تكه ى آن به گوشه اى از دریاى عدم پرتاب مى شود.روایت هاى دیگرى هم هست.
A masterpiece. Like a fable, this has become a part of our cultural consciousness. Santiago's simple heroism is a benchmark for all who persevere and endure.

Digression here: one of the funnier things I've read was a piece on McSweeney's titled "Toto's 'Africa' by Ernest Hemingway".
He knew the feeling.Anyway, I'm reading sentences in this book like "They sat on the Terrace and many of the fishermen made fun of the old man and he was not angry," and I'm thinking, I'm just going to have to make myself power through this.
داستان جذابیت خاصی نداشت , هرچند من عاشق ماهیگیری هستم و خب فضای داخل داستانش باعث شد تا انتها روند عادی اش را تحمل کنم و کتاب را بخوانم اما این دلیلی نمیشود بر اینکه بگویم خیلی خوب بود و یا عالی بود !
در عوض یک داستان کاملا متوسط و چه بسا رو به پایین به حساب میامد که انتظارش را نداشتم و فکر میکردم بهتر از این حرف ها باشد که نبود و کتاب را بعد خواندن اخرین صفحه اش با نارضایتی بستم و کنار گذاشتم ...
But it is unavoidable." And so the old man went to the ocean alone on his skiff to catch some fish but ended up being caught by the big fish instead, a fish so big, it controlled the skiff and took its own course at the sea.
To make you think and ponder deeply about the events in the story which may appear superficial and boring at the surface but dense and philosopical in their deeper meanings.When you're old and wise and you catch the biggest fish (literal or metaphorical) in your life, you wouldn't let it go that easily.
Feb 04, 16* Also on my blog.
The Old Man and the AllegoryThis book might just be an allegory of Darwinist Capitalism and the surv
The whole conviction of my life now rests upon the belief that loneliness, far from being a rare and curious phenomenon, peculiar to myself and to a few other solitary men, is the central and inevitable fact of human existence.  -Tom WolfeLoneliness of human existence is omnipresent, perhaps that is what human existence is condemned to and that is what has haunted human beings most since the early days of civilization. Though loneliness is an unavoidable condition of our humanity, it resides in
At one level it is the tale of a man and a fish, at another, a story of man versus nature, at yet another, the story of the culture of manhood, courage, bravery in the face of existence, and at yet another a history of what life was like when individuals were more the central actors on the human stage and not groups or organizations.The Old man no longer dreams of storms, nor of women, nor of great occurrences, nor of great fish, nor fights, nor contests of strength, nor of his wife.
The book, to me, may be said as bible of human existence, the Old man symbolizes the human attitude towards life in general; it is the tale of civilized human life and exactly what does it take to live such one- courage, love, faith, hope, and clarity.
هذا العمل أحببته جدًا – رغم أن الكثير يشعر تجاهه بملل – وسبب حبي له حيث أني ولدت بالقرب من البحر ولم أعرف الكثير عن العالم الآخر أول سنواتي سوى البحر ورائحته، ولهذا أعرف جيدًا ماذا يعني تجمّع هذه الثلاثية (صياد / سمكة / وقت) في البدء يعوّل الأول على الثاني وثانيًا يستنفد الثاني، السمكة كل مالديه من الثالث، الوقت.
لكن يأتي دون حسبان لكل ماسبق عامل الخبرة الذي يحتاج أن يعي حجم الصبر وأجد في عملية الصيد ثم تلاقي وليس تشابه بين الوقت والخبر.
I was familiar with Hemingway's writing style and his tragic life due to preparing a school presentation about him years ago and reading some of his short stories, so I was able to direct my expectations to the necessary direction, ultimately finding - as surprising as this may sound - a lot to enjoy in here.I don't know if any other author would have been able to spend 140 pages on a subject as simple as this (although Dickens probably could), but Ernest Hemingway succeeded in the attempt, creating a timeless classic.
However, I am not sure if it broke me for future Hemingway novels.
When I got to other Hemingway novels it was almost like there was too much in them - I wanted the basics of this book again.
That is not to say that I have not enjoyed his other books, but if I had read the others first and wasn't tempted to compare them to this, I would have rated them higher.So, if you want to read lots of Hemingway, maybe don't start here.
Both views have their merits: but what they ignore is that, spirituality aside, this is what keeps most of us sane - having very little control over where we are placed as a cog in this huge machine of the universe, the best thing is to bite the bullet and press ahead, and do the best you can.Hemingway's old fisherman, Santiago, would not have known the Gita.
But that was the thing that I was born for.Being born as a fisherman, his karma is to fish - it does not matter whether he manages to land anything.
The tail, excuse me, The tale of an elderly fisherman and his not so good friend , a 1,500 lbs. marlin. They meet for lunch and immediately fight over the menu (he wants the fish , as the main course). This disagreement causes some friction. Boys will be boys. So eventually, the two, decide to take a long leisurely voyage , to cool off. What harm can happen? Imagine, Cain and Abel , without the brotherly love...
Can he battle everything the sea throws at him to land his prize?In the interest of reading a wider variety of things, I snapped this up like an eighteen-foot marlin bites a baited hook.
I felt every wound and heartbreak along with Santiago and was nearly as worn out as the old fisherman by the end of the tale.If you haven't already had the ending spoiled for you, do yourself a favor and steer clear of introductions, reviews, and Wikipedia summaries.
For years, the only Hemingway I'd read was The Sun Also Rises and I wasn't overly fond of it.
لا تعجبني تلك النوعية من الروايات التي يركز بناءها الدرامي على شخصية واحدة وحدث واحد، فمهما كانت عبقرية الكاتب في السرد والتحليل فلن يمنع الملل أن يتسلل إلى نفس القارئ في بعض أقسام العمل أو معظمه
