https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156810.Schoolhouse_Mystery
The Schoolhouse Mystery is about 4 children named Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny. One summer evening, while they and there grandfather were all sitting on the porch Benny, the youngest blurts out that his friend dared him and his family to go to the most boring fishing town ever. He dared them to go because he knew that everywhere they went they always found and solved a mystery but he thought that they wouldn't find one in this little, tiny, boring, fishing town. But boy was he wrong..........
Read this book to my SIPPS class after our phonics lessons each day. We enjoyed adventuring with The Alden kids as they figured out the mystery regarding “The Money Man”. The language and some of of the references were not understood by my kiddos because of when this book was written but still enjoyed it.
I chose to read an oldie, but goodie this time! It has been a long time since I have read The Boxcar Children. This was one I had not read yet. The Schoolhouse Mystery was just that, it kept me interested and intrigued right up until the end.
I just love these Boxcar Children stories about sweet kids and generally nice people in a kinder, better time than now.
Total nostalgia read.
I enjoyed the school teaching and I felt the poor people in this story were treated with a bit more respect than in previous stories, although there are still definitely paternalistic themes, with the rich Aldens and Miss Gray taking care of the poor people. As I've said before, the Boxcar Children books generally aren't really about mystery but more about adventure. There are twists, but they're generally pretty carefully guided and the story is more about the kids taking care of themselves and showing New England grit than about any secrets.
Upon befriending several village children with little schooling, the Alden children walk to the top of the hill to ask rich, old Miss Gray for the schoolhouse keys so they can teach the children in the mornings.
Acting as detectives, the Aldens discover that Mr. Willet is taking precious books from the Gray Library and hiding them, as well as the villagers' old coins and antique goods behind the library's bookshelves.
Upon being caught the villain faces jail time and the Alden children are the village saviors.
All in all, though, it is a well written children's mystery and I did enjoy rereading it.
The book all started when a boy named Benny ( one of the 4 characters) was being very quiet ( which is really not normal) he said that one of his friends said that the boxcar children always go on an adventure ,but that they would never find a mystery in the town that Benny’s friends dad live in.
They go to the hotel and after a few days find out that there is no mystery anyways, they began to start to want to leave but they had spoken to early ,the boxcar children had found a mystery in the schoolhouse ,something odd in the town ,nobody around seems to want to talk to them , and they might end up in trouble.

So I love the Boxcar Children and I will always treasure it. That said, its been a while since I actually read one of the books (like twelve years) so this gave me a new perspective. The Aldens are awesome and very independent. The storyline had two main plots that were actually pretty ingenious-- Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny teach school and try to catch a swindler of antiques at the same time. Plus, this one is one of the original twelve by Warner, so bonus! Also, Jessie is one of the fictional characters that I use to describe myself.
This book is awesome. I love the boxcar children series. Benny's friend challenges him that on an island he will be bored. Benny takes the challenge and his family stays on the island for a week. I recommend this book to people who love mysteries. Enjoy!...Everyone finds something to do and enjoys themselves. They prove Benny's friend wrong and find a mystery. In the mystery, this guy is buying antiques cheap and then turning around and selling them for a lot of money. The boxcar children save the day by catching the thief and proving Benny's friend wrong!
I wish I'd read all of these as a child, but I couldn't sit still long enough. I wanted to climb trees, build playhouses and make towns in the dirt.
I used to love the boxcar children when I was little. This one was a kindle deal the other day so decided to read one again. A bit cheesy but brought a smile and lots of fond memories.
The kids are challenged to find a mystery in a small town. Challenge accepted! The kids catch a bad guy and teach the kids of the island.
It’s reminiscent of a Scooby-Doo mystery. I think it’s one of the better ones of the sequels.
In this book, Schoolhouse Mystery, the children spend the summer at a New England seaside fishing village.
Since the children know that the towns people are uneducated, they feel that this man may be taking advantage of them.
Henry, Jessie, Violet and Benny make it their mission to find out what this strange man is really doing in Port Elizabeth.
What they find is that the Money Man is actually a smuggler from Canada that is stealing rare books and selling them to various libraries and museums.
I really enjoyed this book, it took me back to my own childhood and how I loved reading this series.
This was a fun trip down memory lane though I never liked the later Box Car children books as much as the original.
And as a much more politically and socially aware adult, I can see how this book really privileged middle class white suburbia.
It leaves something to be desired in the department of multi-cultural awareness (and just within white America, different races or nationalities certainly have no part in this book).Apart from that though, if I may sound so inconstant, its message was really very sweet: enjoy what you do; pay attention to the world around you; education is of paramount importance.
And it was fun to revisit some happy childhood memories.
This is probably the only Boxcar Children I can remember without prompting, with the exception of the first book obviously, and even at that it's hazy.
I recalled Miss Gray as a Mr. Gray.
I also recalled a storm and a lighthouse.
The storm I recalled is most likely the tides coming in and the lighthouse was from The Lighthouse Mystery.
While I was reading through that book I thought I had been recalling a completely different book series and I am pleasantly surprised to have found these old memories.
No matter if I remembered them incorrectly.
Oh and I also remembered the Gray Library.
Grade Level Equivalent: 3.2Summary: The Alden family are spending their vacation in a tiny, fishing village.
However, not all is what it appears to be in the small town.
In this mystery, the gang works together to catch a swindler and make sure to have an exciting time on their vacation.
Lesson Integration: Students can look for clues throughout the book and write them on post-its that will be kept inside the book.
As the mystery is solved, the children can look back to see if the clues they selected were valid or just distractors incorporated by the author to add suspense to the story.
"If it weren't for those Alden children," says the bad guy at the end.
Oh, so close.
I would have geeked out big time if she had just used another word in there in there.
It was after all a mystery worthy of those meddiling kids.
Benny's friend Max bets him that he can't find a mystery in his father's favorite fishing village.
But the Alden kids know that mystery follows them where ever they go.
They find a reclusive author and they run a summer school and they find a mystery behind a painting of our first president.
Needless to say, Benny wins the bet.
Another fun read from the Boxcar children, and slightly more plot than usually found in these books, and as I thoroughly entertained-for an hour. These books would never be considered difficult, even when I was reading these in third grade. I'll continue the series and enjoy it while it lasts, but from one installment to the next, truly only the first book was memorable. I would really only recommend to those who have already committed to the series.
An excellent book with a very real premise - an individual cheating families out of their antiques because they don't realize the value of what they have. I loved the side story of the Alden children teaching school. I really am amazed at all the ways the author has shown readers everywhere how kids can be really self-reliant and strong and intelligent. I love this series more and more as I keep reading.
My son and I didn't care for this one too much. It was slow going, with really no interesting characters to speak of, and not much of a mystery at all, even at the end. My six year old found it harder to follow than the previous Boxcar Children books that we've read. We won't be revisiting this one, that's for sure.
I just love how they wanted to help the poor people learn.It was really really great and funny when Benny wanted to sleep on the top of the car!I also like how they pretended that john carter said his name was wilder-smith.
During a summer vacation to an island, the Boxcar Children discover a man buying antiques from the islanders and not paying enough for them. There were several things in this story that I found unbelievable. In addition, the problem was not very big, in my opinion.
In first grade I was already a fan of school. I liked the routine, the bright crayons, sharp pencils, and creamy lined paper. Teaching was one of my answers to "What do you want to be when you grow up?" As the subject of school interests me,this was one of the better books in the series.
Loved itIt had a great plotline, and was sweet and really nice elf the Alden children to teach the kids! :)
great when ur little
Just for fun book for students
I read this book.I like when the aldens get to help the school.I don't like that somebody is taking books.It was a good book.
