https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/772852.The_Cross_and_the_Switchblade
Told from a first person point of view Mr. Wilkerson relates the story and opens many of it's implications and inspirations to us.
If that's the part of Christianity you want to look at, while it exists that's not what this book is about.If you are honestly agnostic you might find this book interesting.
I can't say for sure of course how it will hit you, but as I said, "might".If you are on the fence, take a look and consider.If you are a Christian, you may like this book.
I like it.*********** Update 5/20/2011 ***********It's actually difficult to track down a lot of information on David Wilkerson's denomination.
I learnt from this book, that love comes in different forms, and even when you think you are alone, there is always that one person willing to go the extra mile for you.A setting that i found interesting was the city of New York.
All my life, reading books and watching movies it has been a place i desperately wanted to visit because i thought of it as an utterly clean, healthy city.
But reading this book, shattered my dreams of this pumping city.
That is why i found the city of New York an interesting setting.
Great, eye-opening story! Unfortunately the theology isn't biblically sound, so I'd be pretty careful in recommending this to someone.
Each group was then assigned an inner-city neighborhood in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area.
My group was assigned the Powderhorn/Central neighborhoods of Minneapolis, and we spent the next few weeks getting to know the area.
It was quite the experience to see the service get going and watch these folks with such rough backgrounds become filled with the Holy Spirit.
For a random small town pastor to go to the streets of NYC on a whim and risk his life for thugs and killers is an incredible testament of boldness through Christ and the Holy Spirit.
As a non-Christian who dislikes being lectured about the supposed life-enriching joys of letting Jesus into your heart, I could logically be expected to loathe this book.
To be fair, though, Wilkerson's work about his activities among street-kids and criminals is both entertaining and moving.
He presents his case openly, with an obvious pride in his achievements and yet totally modestly, and pulls off the rare trick of telling a pro-Christian story that doesn't make the non-religious squirm with boredom or embarrassment.
Committed Christians will totally love this work - and I say that without any attempt at sarcasm or insult.
CAREFUL in reading this book.
This book is not about men.
Instead, it's a book about the Holy Spirit in journeys of men.
Firstly, the Spirit powerfully changed a journey of a preacher's life, David Wilkerson's.
This is a story how God uses David Wilkerson to change teenagers in New York slums that were trapped in crimes, violence, drugs, and sex.
This is a book that you need to read so you would know and want God's guidance in your life, so you would be a blessing towards other people's lives.
You will be trapped in His awesome plan.
Although the book seems interesting for teenagers and brainwashed people, but I've never believed what the clergy ever say about anything.
He had to share his vision and trust God to use his feeble human responses to give him an in with the Gangs of New York.Yet This is closer to a later film - West Side Story - Sharks and Jets you can read of the Maus Maus and the Bishops; defined by immigration and poverty, the neighbourhoods they 'lived' in.What is heartening to read even if the language has changed is that the power of the cross and the work of the Holy Spirit is clearly effective, and that God was in at the very start of this ministry.
Their work was achieved through prayer, a shared vision across denominations and the response of God to the young people who put their trust in God's promises of New Life and Baptism in the Holy Spirit.The work goes on as this special addition brings into focus.
I have wanted to read this one for a long time but never seemed to be able to find it at book sales.
After finally being able to read it I understand why some consider it a Christian classic.
He was willing to go into the worst places and reach out to the meanest people and God rewarded him for that.
The fact that Nicky Cruz is still preaching today rather than being in prison for murder is testimony enough to the change that took place in him.
This was a great uplifting book and if you are a christian you should read this one.
The assistance David Wilkerson provided to male and female gang members in New York City was to share with them the Biblical message of love and eternal life through Jesus Christ.
For evangelical Christians who believe in a God who is loving, receptive to granting the requests of specific public prayers, and offers everyone eternal life through Jesus Christ, then "The Cross and the Switchblade" will be a 5-star read.The prose of this book communicates some interesting history about gangs and street life in the late 1950s, but "The Cross and the Switchblade" isn't focused on historical record or illuminating American culture.
I read this when I was ten and I still remember every detail!! It is one of the coolest and most GOD POWERFUL stories ever. And you wanna know what the best part is!? It's all true!!
It is a story of being led by the Holy Spirit in every detail of life, in order to reach into the hearts of the lost boys and girls of the slums of New York City and to show them powerful deliverance from drug addictions, violence, street gangs, broken homes, poverty, etc.
For example, twice he needed to find someone in New York City, had no idea where they lived, but drove up to their homes, this done in a city with a population larger than that of Canada.It is a story of bravery, but bravery caused by the infilling of the Holy Spirit, to lead and guide them, to trust Him for protection, using only love against knives and other weapons.
This is a very powerful book!
I remember I found it because someone from Teen Challenge suggested it when I was researching info about Teen Challenge for a screenplay I wanted to do.
After reading it I felt that this book would make a powerful movie.
Unfortunately the movie didn't do it justice I think because of the low budget it probably had.
But the story is still very relevent today and a big budget feature of it would bring the story and its outreach program some huge exposure.
God willing, I would love to write that screenplay.
A phenomenal true life story of gangs and one man's calling to show them that there is light at the end of their dismal tunnel;another path; hope; and a brighter future. A well written book dotted with profound reports and insights from the author about the gang members and their individual reactions. Wilkerson does a great job bringing out the shortcomings as well as the hope for his calling. Written decades ago this book is still relevant today and could be used today for our communities with gang problems.
Wow! What an amazing faith-building story! Highly recommended for teens and beyond (some of the content is a bit too mature for little ears, although I do plan on reading this aloud to my family with some editing as I go). If you are looking for a book that will build your faith, read this book.If you are looking for a good resource for teens that would deter them from desiring to experiment with drugs, have them read this book.
True Story of a small town Pastor who, through a commitment to replace watching T.V with prayer, is led by the Spirit to Harlem to minister to 13-16 year old gang members responsible for the murder of a special needs boy.The story recounts the conversation of gang members, Rev.Wilkenson's faith to follow and trust the Holy Spirit's leading and provision, and provides a great reminder of the powerful God I serve....His heart for the lost and exhorts me to trust his power more.
Noting on my Goodreads newsfeed that this book is being re-published, I was reminded that I read it long, long ago. (I was about 13 years old, and it was available in our church library.) I clearly remember one scene that has stuck with me all these years; if an author can write with that kind of staying power, his book probably deserves 4 stars. (-:
A little known preacher, called by God to reach the gangs of New York City.
David Wilkerson is the Preacher, trembling but sure of the call.
Nicky Cruz is the gang leader, filled with enough hatred to instill fear in everyone he encountered.
Filled with love for his fellow man, David does not stop reaching out.
Nicky Cruz almost kills him several times, until the night he hears the message of love.
He has been hearing it for a long time...but he finally hears it in his heart.
He gives his life to God, and starts a amazing friendship with the very man he tried to kill.
Such an intense and intensely interesting book. I just could not stop till it was done. The reliance upon prayer and thanksgiving prayer was inspiring; it's encouraging to hear from other sources than just my church the effectiveness of thanksgiving prayer.
A great story of the Gospel being spread to the darkest regions of society...and all the more impressive because it's true.
I think this is read must christian book even though it was wrtten nearly 50 years ago it is still just as relevant today.
Particularly interesting to note is how the role that violence, lonliness, abandonment, addiction and a deep sense of wanting to belong still play out in today's society as they did back then.I was challenged and enlightened as a christian on David followed though in living by faith, on how an inital embarassment became an opening to reach out and the fact he acted on the yearnings that God had put in his heart.
Pentecostal small-town preacher goes to the Big Apple to try to reach drug addicts. A classic, hugely influential in hundreds of thousands, even millions of lifes of drug addicts, the missionaries who cared for them in thousands of Pentecostal recovery houses all over the world wherever there are drug addicts, not to mention the Pentecostal churches which then cared for the recoverees when they left the safe houses.Pentecostalism at its best. Only beware the imposition of ‘gifts’ manifestation on converts, which is the basis for the counterfeit revival which then ruined much of Pentecostalism.
This book is like my grandfather. It's full of amazing stories, but it's pretty dated and a little, well direct.BUT...the story in insanely powerful, and God used it to speak directly to me about something very specific when I was reading it. Plus, it's just one of those classic things the older generation knows, and it's good to dip into their culture now and again.Needless to say, my mom gave it to me to read.
David Wilkerson, a Pastor of a large church in New York city, wrote of his part in saving a young man Nicky Cruz from a life of misoury in a gang in New York. He explains how the love and salvation of Jesus Christ turned this young man's life around. This book will strengthen the faith of a believer and cause a nonbeliever to reconsider his or her convictions.I recommend this book to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
This was a the right time to read this book on Good Friday. It is honest, realisitic and I was indeed inspired. The power of prayer and child-like faith will always leave you amazed at the power of God.
This is an amazing true story. It was easy to read and follow. It didn't hold anything back about the reality of gangs, violence, drug abuse and the power of the Holy Spirit. I think all Christians would be encouraged by this story!
The only thing I knew about The Cross and the Switchblade was that the author, David Wilkerson helped John Ramirez, the author of The Devil's Cauldron and Unmasking the Devil, when he was trying to get a hang on the God of the Bible.Well, it turned out that I was led to read this book and I couldn't be happier.
This was a kind of autobiography for the author, focusing on his call to help the teenagers on the streets of New York from drug addition and gangster-ism.This piece was such a God-sent to me because I am at a point now where I need to make big life decisions and it's important for me to be led by the Spirit and follow God's leading.
The emphasis in this book is on the power of the Holy Spirit and the importance of humility and prayer.
There are countless prayers answered miraculously, and I found it an encouraging read.My issue with the book came in the last few chapters.
Wilkerson is Pentecostal and believes in the "gibberish/no-interpreter-necessary" version of speaking in tongues, which is contradictory to what the Bible teaches.
In these last chapters, Wilkerson started to repeat himself a lot and seemed more concerned with being a witness to this "tongue-speaking" than in actually finishing his story, so I found the ending unsatisfactory.
I first read this book in ninth grade when I borrowed it from a stack on my English teacher’s shelf. This was my third time to read it. It is a beautiful illustration of a life of prayer and service, and the subsequent fruit that yields.
A remarkable record of God changing the lives of young people in desperate circumstances.
