https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/535316.Teach_Us_to_Outgrow_Our_Madness
here are some words and phrases regarding this collection of thematically-linked novellas by left-leaning post-war Japanese author Oe Kenzaburo:- surreal, dream-like- grotesque, morbid- humanistic, humane- unsentimental, clear-eyed- a modernist style of writing with a postmodern view of the world?
or maybe not.- unreal, a hair-raising and uncomfortable kind of unreal- a genuine realism that kind of hurts to read- upsetting, angry- ambiguous, fleeting- moving, incredibly moving at times.
in a couple of novellas, i grew impatient as the dreamlike ramblings took too much time to lead me to their point- brutal but true- heartwarming but true- lessons, hard-earned lessons- transcendent, sublime
(This review is for Prize Stock (Shiiku, 飼育), one of the novellas in Teach Us to Outgrow Our Madness: Four Short Novels).Paul Theroux wrote that "the revolting Japanese author Kenzaburō Ōe says [Adventures of Huckleberry Finn] is his favorite book".   v.    How reliable this statement is I don't know, but the story of Prize Stock could be seen as sort of a dark, messed up retelling of Huckleberry. Trade the idyllic Mississippi River shore for Japan during WWII, make the character Jim a captured
(This review is for Prize Stock (Shiiku, 飼育), one of the novellas in Teach Us to Outgrow Our Madness: Four Short Novels).Paul Theroux wrote that "the revolting Japanese author Kenzaburō Ōe says [Adventures of Huckleberry Finn] is his favorite book".
How reliable this statement is I don't know, but the story of Prize Stock could be seen as sort of a dark, messed up retelling of Huckleberry.
The war did not penetrate the tough outer skin and the thick flesh.
Çok kısa bir arayla iki kez okudum Kurbanı Beslemek'i ve bu aralıkta da biraz Oe hakkında bir şeyler okudum, Oe ile yapılan röportajara da baktım.
Oe'yi biraz tanıyıp kitabı ikinci kez okumak ilkinden çok daha zevkliydi.
Aslında kitapta masum görünen çocuktan, tutsak edilen zenciye kadar herkes elinde olduğu ölçüde kendi gördüğü zulümü bir diğerine yaşatmak konusunda doğal bir eğilime sahip.
Masumiyet diye, iyi kötü diye bir şey yok der gibi Oe; sadece güçlüler ve daha güçlüler ve daha daha güçlüler var ve ''insanlık'' denen şey de bu iktidar ilişkisinin uzayıp gitmesinden başka bir şey değil.
Yaşayan en büyük iki Japon yazardan bir tanesi sayılan Kenzoburo Oe, daha çok evrensel bir dilde eser vermeye çaba sarf eden bir romancı.
Fakat edebi dil olarak onlara nazaran daha klasik."Kişisel Bir Sorun" kitabı bilindiği gibi kült.
Şuanda bu romanı dışında aktif bulabileceğiz diğer kitabı "Kurbanı Beslemek".
Aslında bu üç uzun öykü daha önce Can Yayınları tarafından üç aynı novella olarak bağımsız birer kitap olarak basılmışlar.
Erdemir; Hüseyin Can Erkin, Oğuz Baykara, Esin Esen gibi değerli çevirmenlerle birlikte ileri de çok daha fazla kitap çevireceğini umduğumuz iyi bir çevirmen.Kenzaburo Oe'nin en büyük başarısı, kişisel hayatında yaşamış olduğu ailesel sıkıntıları çok yenilikçi bir şekilde eserlerinde dönüştürebiliyor olması.
شما جوان هستید و شاید هنوز در این دنیا از دیدار کسی محروم نشده اید که دیگر هرگز نتوانید فراموشش کنید، منظورم موجودی است که آنقدر دوستش دارید که همواره کمبودش را احساس می کنید.پس شاید آسمانی که بالای سر شماست هنوز چیزی به جز آسمان نیست...و این یعنی خالی بودن مخزن خاطرات
یک رمان جنون آمیز و سخت روانکاوانه، از نویسنده ای آسیایی طبق معمول سرشار از توصیفات و بازی های لفظی است ولی دقت و موشکافی در جهت پرداخت درونیات صرف شده و نه پرداختن به اوهام و خیالات، ترجمه اثر نسبتا قدیمی است ومتاسفانه نسخه ی من چند صفحه ای سفید و چاپ نشده داشت. در مجموع از قدرت ذهن نویسنده بسیار لذت بردم.
Incredible. Astonished. This is one of those books that puts tiny fingers in between the breaches in what one thought was a continuous idea of the possible in a book, and breaks it apart, leaving and making use of these fascinating new spaces. It is embarassing but I felt as if this book were a hose pumping a fuel hungry to be used, designed only for me, into my brain. It gets better and better. My organs are too destroyed to write any meaningful analysis, so: FUCKING BRILLIANT.
Realismo bordeando lo visceral, fantasías paranoicas que son pretextos para llegar a la verdad. Öe es un mundo al cual no creo que muchos gusten entrar, ni mantenerse; puesto que su literatura muestra la existencia sin filtros, esa que nos avergüenza un poco, que preferimos mirar para un lado.

Prize stock:In real life, I visited Kenzaburo's hometown and I tripped around like I tripped around Wordsworth's Lake District cottage, delighting at the old stuff and the nature.
This is mental poverty like "The woman in the dunes".It's such the opposite of furusato, I'm not convinced that it's Japanese.The day He himself shall wipe my tears away:Oe re-wrote "Teach us to outgrow our madness" (great title) in response to the Mishima Incident, and called it "The day He himself shall wipe my tears away" (great title).
Whereas "Prize stock" was a nice story about fucking mental, this feels more familiar.

God bless the man...____Don’t forget, Eeyore, that seeing means grasping something with your imagination.
you got a good look at that large, gray, tree-stump of a thing, well that happened to be one of an elephant’s ankles, but it’s perfectly natural that looking at it didn’t give you much of an impression that you’d seen an elephant—tell me, Eeyore, why should a little boy in an island country in Asia be born with an imagination for African elephants?
Not that the gray tree-stump back there isn’t the real thing, it is, that’s what they mean by a real elephant.
Özellikle ilk hikaye inanılmaz etkileyici. Ancak ikinci ve üçüncü hikayelerde yer yer zor takip edilen akış, çeviri üzerinde tereddütlerimin oluşmasına neden oldu.
Me llamó la atención el libro por cierta equivocación que no tiene sentido reproducir aquí.
La gracia con que Oe trabaja estas tres novelas cortas es magistral.
Una fuerza para describir la locura de cada uno de ellos, que, al fin, es el motivo que hila las tres historias: Locura, familia y la historia del Japón.Un libro que merece mucho la pena leer.
Habrá que seguir buscando más material del autor y si se puede más accidentes de esta catadura.Tengo la edición amarilla, no de los compactos, de Anagrama.
Salvo por un par de erratas y esa manía de sangrar los inicios de capítulo.
"كنزابورو أوي "ما خلقته بي هو الاختلاف.. و الهذيان عالي القيمة! أربع محاولات لخلق عالم مختلف تبدأ بالجنون العاطفي لكافة أشكال التلاحم الروحي بين أب و ابنه.. ستتوقف بلحظات هامساً لنفسك أيعقل ؟!لن أتحدث عن القصص لأن دهشة اكتشافها و استبصار عميق هذا الكاتب تستحق الدهشة الأولى! مع التنبه لنوعية سرده الداخلي هذا الفن الصعب الذي لا يرحل بسهولة متى ما تمكن منك.. ملاحظة: لا تدعوا القصة الثانية تعيق تقدمكم معه هي صعبة جداً و سترهقكم و لكن بديعة ♥
"The Day He Himself Shall Wipe my Tears Away" is probably the sickest thing I've ever read.
I don't know if that's a good or bad thing, but it was just so painfully graphic in the most mentally aggravating way, and written (and translated?) in the most obtuse, indecipherable style.
While I totally recognize the merits of a piece like "The Day He Himself..." it's just so long, deep, and filled to the brim with everything scholarly fantastic that it deserves to be written in a style that's pleasurable, or at least rewarding, to read.
I don't even like or hate it because it left me incapable of doing so.Prize Stock must be the most politically incorrect story I have ever read in my life.
The story is about a fat man who tries to connect with his problematic handicapped son and arrives at a life changing realization.
The story layers a dream quality over hard realism that produces a short novel that creeps into your psyche.Aghwee The Sky Monster is probably the most normal story.
A man is hired to take care of wealthy man's grownup son who claims is followed by an invisible sky monster.This was a great book.
"Prize Stock" I would like to recommend this novel first to some interested readers who may wonder with which one they should start; there are two reasons, first, this short story won the prestigious Akutagawa Prize in 1958 when Oe was twenty-three (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akutagaw...), two, it is interestingly more readable and enjoyable than the other three in this volume.I think Oe has tried to present his characters in the context of World War II, representatively the conflict has emerged due to the language barrier since the black soldier can't speak Japanese while those Japanese capturing him can't speak English, a tragic hopeless conflict between two cultures apart that still rings true even in the modern world in any field nowadays.
Üç uzun öyküden sadece ikincisini beğendim. Yazar ile tanışma kitabımdı ama pek iyi anlaşamadık kendileriyle.
3.5
لم تعجبني سوى قصة الجزاءاما باقي القصص فكانت غامضة بالنسبة لى أو دون المستوى
داستان اول -روزی که او خود...- در مورد توهمات پیچیده با واقعیت یه مرد سی و پنج ساله بیست سال بعد از شکست ژاپن در جنگ جهانیه و به نظر میاد که تجارب شخصی نویسنده اثرات زیادی روش داشته.
داستان دوم هم راوی قصهای از آشنایی و ماجراهای شخصیت اصلی کتاب با آهنگسازیه که مسئول مرگ کودک تازه به دنیا اومدهاش بوده و در نتیجه دچار جنون شده.
این داستان هم با زندگی شخصی نویسنده نزدیکی زیادب داره.در هر دو داستان تشخیص واقعیت در بین تمامی اتفاقات و روایات سخته و ناممکن.
به علاوه ترجمه خوبی داره و مترجم تونسته با ر
داستان اول -روزی که او خود...- در مورد توهمات پیچیده با واقعیت یه مرد سی و پنج ساله بیست سال بعد از شکست ژاپن در جنگ جهانیه و به نظر میاد که تجارب شخصی نویسنده اثرات زیادی روش داشته.
داستان دوم هم راوی قصه‌ای از آشنایی و ماجراهای شخصیت اصلی کتاب با آهنگسازیه که مسئول مرگ کودک تازه به دنیا اومده‌اش بوده و در نتیجه دچار جنون شده.
این داستان هم با زندگی شخصی نویسنده نزدیکی زیادب داره.در هر دو داستان تشخیص واقعیت در بین تمامی اتفاقات و روایات سخته و ناممکن.
I have not read any Japanese author before and I liked the idea that I would have several novels in one book to sample the writing of this Nobel Prize winner.He is a creative, gifted storyteller. There is such a level of wackiness in a couple of these novellas I felt like I was on a trip. Far out, man.
Bu yazının orijinali (ve daha iyi görüneni) canlabirsene'de yayınlandı.
Başıma gelecekleri bilseydim, Kenzaburo Oe'nin Kurbanı Beslemek'te yer alan üç öyküsünü peş peşe okumazdım; her ay birini okurdum.
Ya da "deli" olarak algılananlar diyelim.Farklı kültürlere ışık tutan hikâyeleri seviyorum ancak Kenzaburo Oe'nin daha genel, küresel bakış açısını da çok sevdim.
Tabii ki spoiler vererek heyecanı mahvetmek istemiyorum, o yüzden şöyle diyeyim: bu hikâyelerde insanların geçmişten kaçamayışını, kendilerini ararken etraflarını gözlemlemeyi unutuşlarını, insanoğlunun hele ki güveni, kendini inandırdığı yalanlar yıkılınca ne kadar acımasız olabileceğini, yalnızlığın, dışlanmışlığın, farklı olmanın insanı nasıl deliliğe itebileceğini göreceksiniz.
Kenzaburo Oe, karakterlerini gerçekten çok zor durumlara sokuyor ve bu durumlardan sıyrılma konusunda da onları kendi hallerine bırakıyor.
Y sí, chale, suena a cliché sobado con lo de "entrañable obra", pero Kenzaburo te rompe el saque bien cabrón, porque su narrativa no es refinada como la de Yasunari Kawabata ni tiene ese ritmo de Jazz tan propia de Murakami.
Parece no tener forma, la narración es atolondrada, brinca de un sitio a otro y por ratos no sabes bien cómo va del punto A al B o cuál es el sentido de lo que te está intentando contar.
Uzun zamandır böyle sıradışı bir kitap okumamıştım. Okumanın üzerinden yıllar da geçse bazı sahneleri aklımda yer eden ve sık sık gönderme yaptığım kitaplardan biri olacak.
I didn't think I would rate this book 5 stars as I was reading it. But it stuck in my mind. The imagery, the characters, the despair and meanness and then deliverance, maybe. Loved it.
The protagonist is a 35 year old (the age of OE when he wrote the novel) who lies in hospital, believing himself to have terminal liver cancer.
One is the protagonists dictation of his childhood memories in for of an extensive will, the other - in italics - is a third person narration of his conversation with others, most notably the notary taking his dictation.
At the end, the protagonists secrets are revealed and the complex story-line is deconstructed.2.
This novel came out the same year, Mishima started his foolish coup attempt and committed suicide.
This novel is OE's take on Mishima and Mishima's ideology.
"La única libertad que le quedaba contra esa locura, era la de hacerle frente en solitario
Overall, I found that this collection was not for me, despite the excellent translation. I was very taken with “Prize Stock,” one of the best child’s point of view stories I’ve ever read; and I liked the narrative of “Aghwee the Sky Monster.” But I failed to finish the novella, The Day He Himself Shall Wipe My Tears Away, which seemed endless, and the title story, which I found too baldly bizarre.
