https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264121.Men_at_Arms
Quel mondo, per lui ideale, scompariva per sempre, perché ormai diventato caricatura di se stesso, cancellato dalla mostruosa macchina di sangue della guerra mondialeE quindi, strano tipo di nostalgico questo Waugh: se si attribuisce al Gattopardo la frase “cambiare tutto per non cambiare niente” (in realtà mi pare fosse Tancredi a dire Se vogliamo che tutto rimanga come è, bisogna che tutto cambi), Waugh direbbe, cambiamo tutto per cambiare davvero.La serie in undici episodi del 1981 tratta da “Brideshead Revisited – Ritorno a Brideshead” diretta da Charles Sturridge (e Michael Lindsay-Hogg) è una pietra miliare della serialità televisiva dell’epoca, ebbe un grande successo.
‘Men at Arms’ (1952) by Evelyn Waugh is the first part of Waugh’s ‘Sword of Honour’ trilogy of books (along with ‘Officers and Gentlemen’ and ‘Unconditional Surrender’).‘Men at Arms’ tells the story of Guy Crouchback and his endeavours to, in his way – play his part, do his bit and get actively involved in World War II and The British Army.Unfortunately, I struggled to engage with either the narrative or the main protagonist.

Waugh originally intended the three novels to be read together, even though their publication was about a decade apart.
He soon learns that this war is not a gentleman’s war like the last one, and has to go through the confusion of the British disorganization to even get close to some kind of participation.
He eventually gets into a group of Halbadiers that is composed, essentially, of men like him.
Guy’s experiences parallel Waugh’s for the war years, but Guy is not Waugh.
Along the way, we get to meet many members of the so-called priveleged class who fall into the same groups as Guy does.
After having been somewhat underwhelmed with Waugh's Decline and Fall, I had modest expectations for Men at Arms, but I ended up really enjoying it, and anticipate reading the last two books of the Sword of Honour (no omitting U's, please, we're British) trilogy.
Full of dry and absurd humor, and infused with the gravity of World War II, the book follows in serial form the misadventures of our protagonist, Guy Crouchback, as he transitions from dreaming of playing solider to facing the daily mundanity and drudgery, interspersed with the occasional thrill, of life in the military.
Seems pretty quintessentially British -- imperialism, stiff upper lip, the whole bit.
I'm tickled to be reading the same paperback copy that my mom had in college.
If you, like me, have been reared on tales of the second World War as the just and virtuous struggle of the "greatest generation", Evelyn Waugh's arch novels (based loosely on his own war experiences) are an important and darkly enjoyable filling out of that two-dimensional view.
The stakes here are still high.
But the inevitable absurdities and inhumanities of a huge bureaucracy trying to lurch itself into action is here too.
As the first novel of the Sword of Honor trilogy nears its climax, officers in the regiment are engaged in a life-and-death struggle for property rights over a portable Victorian chemical toilet while (as Waugh notes several times through the book) "Far away, trains rolled to the east with their innocent cargo."
The best thing about finishing this book is knowing that, as the first in a trilogy, I can take the next two off my TBR and make room for other books.
"But whether orders made sense or not de Souza could be trusted to carry them out.
Indeed he seemed to find a curious private pleasure in doing something he knew to be absurd, with minute efficiency.
The other officer, Jervis, needed constant supervision." Waugh's light, comic touch is always welcome.
But here, I can't help but compare this to Anthony Powell's magnificent 12-volume saga (A Dance to the Music of Time) of both wars in which the English are caught up in recuperating from the first war and at the same time ramping up for the next one.
Winner of the 1952 James Tait Black Memorial Prize, Britain’s oldest literary award, Men At Arms is the first part of Waugh’s The Sword of Honour Trilogy , his look at the Second World War. It follows Guy Crouchback, the nearly-forty-year-old son of an English aristocratic family who manages to get accepted to officers training in the early part of 1940, and is eventually posted to Dakar in Senegal West Africa.
While there, he inadvertently poisons one of his fellow officers and is sent home in disgrace.That’s about all the plot there is.
3½ stars
Първата ми среща с Ивлин Уо, която в никакъв случай няма да остане последна.
Единственото, за което съжалявам, е че не е преведена цялата трилогия (поне аз не открих издания у нас), а само първата й част."Във всеоръжие" е увлекателно поднесен поглед към ІІСВ и наситена с действие история, в която всеки от многото живи образи непрекъснато се развива между възхода и падението си.
Битките са само загатнати и войната е по-скоро фон, върху който авторът изгражда различните характери, наблягайки на влиянието й върху човешката психика и сарказма си към бюрокрацията в армията.
Паралелът с MASH и "Параграф 22" е неизбежен.
The first was Brideshead Revisited and while it was interesting, it was a bit morose."That little tick wants his bottom kicked, " said Major Erskine.
Finally they are sent off to war and we learn how they fair there.Most of the book takes place during their training time and we meet quite a bundle of interesting characters.
Not a dull one anywhere and if you enjoy reading about the funny and sometimes zany antics of a bunch of grown men trying to prepare themselves to fight in a war, you will like this book.
This is the first leg of Waugh's semi-autobiographical WWII trilogy.
By the end of the novel they do engage in the (real-life) Dakar Expedition, only to fail horrendously.
And thus the novel ends.The book meanders at points, probably because Waugh was trying to include as many idiotic real-life experiences as possible.
The "Catholic" moments are priceless (Waugh was, after all, our most poignant 20th-century Catholic novelist), as are the clashes between highly formal Army traditions and the plain fact that this regiment is led by a bunch of officers (including Guy) who have no business being in the army.
Straddles the line between comedy and absurd truth. Very readable prose, quite the page-turner in its own way.
Pious, innocuous, nebbishy Guy Crouchback, last scion of an ancient and undistinguished Catholic family of the English landed gentry, decides to join the war effort in 1939 as a second lieutenant, despite his middle age and lack of military experience.
He has some trouble finding a regiment that will take him, but finally gets into officer training with the Royal Corps of Halberdiers.
It's all inexplicable training, orders and counterorders, hasty movements followed bay days of waiting, as the military situation in faraway France goes from phony war to retreat to disaster.
Finally the regiment ships out to see some action, of sorts.
I am very found of Evelyn Waugh's writing and this year I have decided to tackle the Sword of Honor trilogy, and I have just finished the first volume, Men At Arms (1952).
It is the story of 35 year old Guy Crouchback's enlistment into the military at the start of World War II.
It is said to have been based on Waugh's own experiences as an older man enlisting.
That being said it is almost more the story of Crouchback's fellow officer Apthorpe, an eccentric fellow.
A dry, dark look at the early days of World War II. Funny, acerbic and sad - quintessentially Waugh.
Listened to the audiobook. Outstanding. Guy Crouchback has become one of my favorite literary characters, and the themes of religious devotion, military duty, and love of homeland were worked into the story wonderfully well, and with healthy doses of irony and wit. The chaos, muddle, and waste of war, even when not in combat, are expertly depicted. Incidentally, the first thing by Waugh that I've ever read. Looking forward to the other two books in the trilogy.
I'd heard several sources recommend Evelyn Waugh as a writer, so I picked up his semi-autobiographical war novel Men at Arms to find out what all the fuss was about.
And so far I haven't seen it.Men At Arms is set during the first year or two of World War II and follows a middle-aged English aristocrat, Guy, who gets himself an officer's position in an army regiment.
The main sources of liveliness are Apthorpe, Guy's fellow officer, and Ritchie-Hook, his commanding officer-- both larger-than-life personalities who are good for quite a bit of entertainment.
We follow an idealistic Guy as he leaves his Italian castle, visits a crusader saint and sets off to England to fight for his country, Christian values (as he sees them) and his honour.
At first his country does not seem to want him, but eventually he becomes a trainee officer in an old and very traditional regiment.
Guy and a few soldiers from the regiment take part in an unauthorised minor scuffle near Dakar, but most of the time he is waiting around in various places for something to happen.
There are lots of wonderful comic characters and incidents, so although Guy is bored or confused much of the time, the reader is not.
I came upon the phrase "Bildungsroman" in a piece of Litcrit the other day. It is used to describe the novel as psychological development of the principle character. Guy Crouchback needs development and aspires to greatness by becoming a war hero. In three novels he is dissected and reconstructed, not necessarily as a better man but as a better human being. As with all Waugh it is the precision of the writing that I adore and the Trilogy is, I think, his greatest achievment better even than Brideshead.
It's Catch-22: the Catholic version. Basically, the major theme is the futility of modern bureaucracy but I think it's a critique of stringent traditions as well or maybe that traditions and modernity are incompatible.Interesting insights about manning up and how we are emasculated by society and women.I'm not sure if Apthorpe is supposed to be a hero or an example of what's wrong with tradition.The language barrier is quite immense. I had problems getting into it at the beginning but it became quite a quick read.
Само не разбрах - така ли е било, както го описва Уо или той жестоко се подиграва с нефелността и безсилието на една прогнила империя...И докато някои си играят на войници, други оставят костите си по кървавите полета на ВСВ. Във всеоръжие властват безумието, парвенющината и нонсенса, до степен способна да отврати читателя. Трудно ми е даже да съжаля Краучбак, достоен персонаж от комедията на абсурда, наречена английска армия. И още веднъж, вездесъщия Параграф 22 властва на воля.
Maybe you have to be British to get it. And 70.
Cynical and unsentimental. Good Waugh. Looking forward to the next two.
Sword of Honour by Evelyn Waugh, adapted for The BBC9 out of 10Notes and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Evelyn Waugh is one of my favorite authors and the author has masterpieces included on the lists of the best books:- A Handful of Dust, Scoop, Brideshead Revisited These three are on The Modern Library list of 100 Best Novels, which includes the best works written in the last century:- http://www.modernlibrary.

The first novel Waugh's trilogy Sword of Honor, this one essentially provides an account of Guy Crouchback's training in the military at the start of World War II.
In many ways, the timeline matches that in Waugh's own life.
Another involves the friend's thunder box, which the brigadier takes a liking to and which Crouchback and his friend constantly try to hide.Overall, one gets the sense that the military is a rather funny place.
There didn't seem to be much in the way of angst here, except a tiny bit toward the very end--and that mostly personal rather the military/war related.
I genuinely struggled to connect with the main character Guy Crouchback most of the novel.
Perhaps it’s because the conflicts/trials he faces often connect to peculiarly Roman Catholic doctrines.
Waugh’s satirical portrayal of military training and life doesn’t seem too far fetched, although it begs the question how the Brits withstood the Germans so well.
The thunderbox escapes were marvelously constructed, enabling some level of connection to Apthorpe, and thus fueling the drama of the concluding chapters.
There is enough potential there for me to read part two of the trilogy.Overall, I found this far inferior to Ferol Sam’s *When All the World Was Young* which admittedly is constructed for more serious effect.
Ok. This is not a great book, but it's not a poor book either.
The problem is that just when you think it might burst into something good, it drops back down into mediocrity.
I was expecting a lot, being a big fan of Brideshead, and the writing is good, after all it is Waugh.
The characters are not bad either.
The problem is with the story, it is just all over the place, it constantly changes direction.
I did like it in parts, there are some quite humorous characters and situations.
So Waugh was kind of an asshole and into some pretty lousy ideas. And the protagonist here, Guy Crouchback, is an author insert in that he's an English gentleman with very romantic ideas of honour and sacrifice. In that sense, there's sort of a tragic quality to Crouchback's (and thus Waugh's) felt inability to adjust to rapidly-changing English society, but you don't have to sympathize with the author's traditionalist politics to enjoy the book because it's just very, very funny.
This book is marred by a disgustingly racist episode towards the end. Not only is the episode not funny, it completely destroys the opposition Waugh sets up between his unsympathetic characters and his sympathetic ones. No one seems outraged by the incident, and so the whole moral structure of the book falls apart.
