https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862025.The_Double_Jinx_Mystery
An eerie and interesting addition to the Nancy Drew book series.
A+ for all of the Nancy Drew books!
Again! Extremely adventurous and full of accidents and illnesses. The amount of stuffs that happens to nancy in one novel is seriously unbelievable. The writing clearly indicates the multi-author factor. This is one of the later books and a lot different from the earliar ones. The earliar books are simpler and more believable (nancy rescuing a girl from a bunglow or finding some clue in an attic ) the later works are more complex and full of thrills.Still a nice narrative and interesting read.
Nancy Drew is a fantastic young woman who can dance, cook, sleuth, is great with kids, and loves to learn. The reader discovers the characteristics in The Double Jinx Mystery. Nancy helps her father with a client's problems, fights superstitions, and has time to be kind to others while having fun. Nancy and her friends do get into trouble, which leave the reader turning the page for more.
This was one of my least favorites, that why I gave it 2 stars. The story wasn't as interesting to me, and I thought the cult group thing at the end was just sort of thrown in there to tie the ballet dancer into the story more. I think the author was starting to run out of story lines at this point...
Once again Nancy Drew is in the middle of a case helping her dad. In this one a bird farm is threaten to be destroyed so high rises can go in their place. So when strange things happen Nancy and her friends are right in the middle of it.
jag har inte mycket annat och säga en att den är riktigt bra.
“My name is Nat Banner and I used to be a strong man in the circus.”
This book was really good, i am always impressed by how Nancy figuers out everything
Typical Nancy Drew mystery.
this was a fun book focused on superstition and folklore. there are scenes that will make you laugh with how chaste they are, so once again, a great book for a young advanced reader.
Mmmm...kinda bleh.
The Double Jinx Mystery  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 50th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. A mysterious string of events occur when eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew employs the help of her friends to keep the High Rise Construction Company from forcing Mr.Thurston to sell his farm. But the group of sleuths find they must overcome people's superstitions and fears in solving the case of the "jinxed" bird farm. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of
A mysterious string of events occur when eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew employs the help of her friends to keep the High Rise Construction Company from forcing Mr.Thurston to sell his farm.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
I'm still plodding my way through the Nancy Drew series - my goal is to re-read all of the original 64 books.
Nancy also gets it but of course recovers quickly and while still on the mend, climbs a tree and a limb breaks, but she jumps and catches the limb above, falls in a river and goes over a dam but since she's a strong swimmer, she and Ned survive and of course solves the mystery and saves the farm.
The book was the first time I noticed that mental illness is mentioned.
Yes, Nancy Drew is catching up with modern times.
Of course all nancy drew books are amazing but this one kind of fell flat.
The coven thing in the end was a little stupid.Plot: Nancy is working with her father on a case.
Threats include his birds getting sick and Mr. Thorton and Ned being knocked out.
Nancy and Ned end up both getting sick.
Merv kidnaps nancy and takes her to a coven.
The Master was conning people and we find out Merv was a little unstable.
The leader of the development company hired these people to jinx the Thorton's to get the land.
Title has nothing to do with the mystery AT ALL other than that some people are mildly superstitious.Ned and Nancy catch a deadly bird pneumonia but survive (of course, since there are six more books in this series).
F'realz.Anyway, the evil developer who forces people to sell their property eventually gets arrested though he didn't do any of the bad deeds directly.Ned gets chloroformed by an unknown assailant.
Also, Nancy gets arrested for packing 9 children and three adults in her convertible, but the officer lets her go with a warning.
It's the first time anyone has ever objected to Nancy cramming more than six people in her car.
I found this book to be a little geek-like.
It talks about lots of birds at an aviary and trying to save it.
Otherwise it will be torn down and rest of the land will also be cleared so it can make room for an apartment complex.
It may just be me but birds are not very interesting and quit frankly just annoying.
I dragged along while reading this book because I didn't like it.
If you want a quick, interesting read don't choose this book; I had to force myself to finish it.
With that being said I am going to give this book only two stars.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Certainly one of the odder installments of Nancy Drew's adventures. I enjoyed the bird facts and the relationship shown between Nancy and her beau, Ned. The run in with the law when transporting some children who were to visit the aviaries and little petting zoo was quite funny, however a mysterious bird illness befalling Ned AND THEN Nancy, certainly felt like too much drama was trying to be worked in.Nevertheless the book was still readable and somewhat enjoyable but it wasn't a favourite nor quite memorable. Hence 2 stars.
Look out! Don't let someone jinx you! I love mysteries, not the murder mysteries or gore, but the ones that are looking for a missing person or will. Those I like. Especially the Nancy Drew ones, which in my opinion are the best mystery books around. They always keep you dangling at the end of every chapter, wanting you to read on. Plus the series keeps going, so when you're hungry for more they'll be there! If you want a little excitment to your every day life, pick one of these off the shelf!
The Double Jinx Mystery by: Carolyn Keene is a really good book. Nancy Drew the main character revives a jinx bird outside her door. A bird farm down the road is going to get there property taken from unless Nancy can help stop. There are some troubles Nancy and her friends face trying to solve the mystery. You should read the book for yourself and find out what happens. This is a great mystery story!!! You should really read this book.
I liked that Bess and George had a decent sized role in this mystery. I didn't necessarily love that the whole plot was centered around saving a zoo that sounded pretty awful for the animals, but since it is just a Nancy Drew book I can let that slide. I thought the ending of this book was totally hilarious - which maybe wasn't what the author was going for, but I enjoyed it anyways.
I just never liked this mystery with its weird leaping through the field ballet scene with Nancy, who of course is a whiz at gran jetes as she is at everything else. Maybe it's the weird, wavy illustrations with the very 70s hair and clothing. But of course, when you like Nancy Drew, you read them all!
I was obsessed with Nancy Drew in elementary and middle school but haven't read any of the books in a while. This is the only one I own that I never read so I decided to read it today for old times sake.
I've never read a Nancy Drew book before, so I can't tell if this is the usual standard or just one of the worse. I found this copy at a flea market and may give the series a second chance when I find another cheap one.
The Mystery started when Nancy and her friends received a evil omen which looks like a bird which leads them to intruging mystery , Someone even tried to blow Nancy car up by a land mine,Would they be able to solve the mystery?
I was right: the quality of the mysteries do spiral down when numbers go up.The Double Jinx Mystery is less of a mystery that must be solved and more of finding evidence that could be used against the known villain. However, I must say that it passed my standards for a Nancy Drew book.
I really like these books.
Not my favorite Nancy Drew, but a fun walk down Memory Lane all the same.
Nancy could have used a mask and gown to prevent getting sick. doh!
