https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818217.501_Spanish_Verbs
This is a must-have book if you ever want to advance your spanish language skills. It was well organized and the instructions and explanations were clear. Highly reccommend, especially for people currently studying spanish.
I have owned many editions of this book over the years in other languages besides Spanish as well and I will say that it is even better each time. This is a great reference book for anyone who is serious about learning the intricacies of verbs.
An essential reference book to have on hand for any intermediate/advanced student of Spanish. It also gives suggestions for practice drills of the various tenses- it included tenses I hadn't even heard of!
I used to think this book was stupid.
If you could just learn the different groups/patterns, then you'd know how to conjugate thousands of verbs.
BUT, now I know that being able to quickly look up a verb you're unsure about, and see ALL of the conjugations right there, spread out, is extremely helpful.
Also, it really only has verbs you'll ever want to use (with some obscure irregular verbs as exceptions).
There was only a handful of times it didn't have a verb I wanted.
Looking through it for a verb is like looking something up in a magic dictionary; so fast!
Extremely helpful for translating irregular verbs! I don't know if I would have gotten by in my Spanish classes without this book. You can look up a verb and you get a whole page dedicated to all its forms. The beginning also covers the regular verbs in a way that is easy to reference.
One of the most useful resources someone learning Spanish can have. 501 of the most commonly used Spanish verbs along with all of their conjugations and useful grammar information. Every Spanish student should have this book in their library.
Excellent book for anyone trying to advance their Spanish grammar. I've used it a lot!
Great tool for any one studying or using Spanish as a 2nd language
Extremely useful in my quest to become semi-fluent in español.
This is the greatest asset ever--simple yet brilliant
A must have for anyone learning Spanish
This book is a must-have for the language learner.
Good reference if you are learning spanish verbs
This book was very helpful when I was learning Spanish and then for years after that when writing, speaking, etc.
Gah! I'm trying to get a handle on the simplest of past and imperfect tenses that I have neglected for so long. A little Spain-o-centric, but this book is awesome if you wanna wrap your brain around verb conjugation.
Good Ol' spanish classes, this helped all throughout college and still today when I need to talk with parents during conferences.Conjugations . . . ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!
I have the book
This book is unbelievably helpful for conjugating many more than 501 verbs in Spanish. Love it!
THIS BOOK. I love it, really I am in love. best reference book I have ever used in my spanish minor quest
This book is a must for intermediate/advanced Spanish students. I love it so much. It has 501 of the most common Spanish verbs with a page dedicated to each verb in all of its tenses & grammar info.
Ha ha ha. No seriously, it saved my grades
3/5
Great book to have in an upper level class for conjugating verbs. Its quick, easy to use, and helps you when you cant remember those confusing conjugations.
Great book to have in an upper level class for conjugating verbs. It´s quick, easy to use, and helps you when you can´t remember those confusing conjugations.
great
Very useful grammar explanations in the introduction.
hahahahhahahahahhhahahahahhaa I love reference books!I'm procrastinating on writing a paper. This is what I do instead.
nothing
This is the book my son's college professor selected and it appears to be a great reference book.
very helpful es asumbroso
This book has proved a good reference for learning Spanish. Although it does have some sections on grammar and vocabulary, this book is about Verbs.
