https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3215762-gas-light
Description: Years after her aunt was murdered in her home, a young woman moves back into the house with her new husband. However, he has a secret that he will do anything to protect, even if it means driving his wife insane.  "I believe I'm going to bevery interested in number twelve." The Murder in Thornton Square 1940 (aka Gaslight) Full FilmWith all the Trumpy gaslighting going on, it was good to re-visit the play which gave us the definition of psychological manipulation. Mr Mallen, in this
Description: Years after her aunt was murdered in her home, a young woman moves back into the house with her new husband.
"I believe I'm going to bevery interested in number twelve."
The Murder in Thornton Square 1940 (aka Gaslight) Full FilmWith all the Trumpy gaslighting going on, it was good to re-visit the play which gave us the definition of psychological manipulation.
Mr Mallen, in this version, has a white streak running through his hair and suspect it fired the imagination and gave rise to a highly popular story line for Catherine Cookson.
25 OCT 2016 - a recommendation through Bettie. The film showcases a great cast. The book should be fun to read. Many Thanks! Cach the film on Youtube here - https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=SPcYkxm...30 OCT 2016 - a great film with a great cast. 4 stars. Thank you, Dear Bettie.
A woman fears she is losing her mind, as her husband threatens to have her committed, but what’s really going on? This old-fashioned thriller was a suspenseful read. Gaslight (also titled Angel Street) was the basis for the Oscar winning movie with Ingrid Bergman, Charles Boyer, and Angela Lansbury. (The author also wrote the play, Rope, which was made into a movie by Alfred Hitchcock).
I wanted to read this play after reading about "gaslighting" which is a form of psychological abuse which involves trying to convince a person that they are losing their sanity. I absolutely loved the interaction between the characters, the ongoing tension, and best of all is Mrs Manning's monologue at the end, but I guess thats a vindictive part of me that enjoys seeing a downtrodden lady getting her own back. Short, but thoroughly enjoyable, I would love to able to get hold of the British film released in 1940.
Good play but a bit obvious, the ending is very predictable I believe.
This is a very dated (and, yes, period) play featuring a proto-feminist protagonist who is basically a shut-in terrorized by her husband into thinking the she just might be insane.
A strange man waltzes into her house after convincing one of the maids that the protagonist's husband is a jerk and confronts the main character with about an hour's worth of supposition pertaining to the husband's jerkiness.
I suppose 150 years ago, in the age of shut-ins, that'd be almost as liberating as wearing pants and having a position in management somewhere.
The term "gaslighting" comes from Hamilton's play and the actions of its central characters. Mrs. Manningham thinks she is going insane. Her husband says she steals and removes items, but she has no memory of those actions. She also notices strange sounds from the locked top floor of their house, and a suspicious dimming of the gas lights every evening. In the course of the drama, she learns that her husband has been trying to convince her that she's insane in order to cover up his own crimes. Three acts, lots of suspense.
Wonderful, suspenseful story of a man trying to convince his wife that she's insane. Powerful enough to have brought the word "gaslight" into the English language as a transitive verb. 150 years after it was written this is still one of the best psychological thrillers ever.
Life is weirder than fiction.
Read with Portland Playreaders
A quick read and what I would imagine to be a thoroughly enjoyable play to watch. It's certainly made me interested in watching the film version with Ingrid Bergman.
A good, solid suspense thriller.
Gaslight, based on a play by Patrick HamiltonA different version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Gaslight is a first rate drama.It is included on the New York Times’ Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made List:- http://www.listchallenges.com/new-yor...It is directed by the genius George Cukor.The man behind such classics as:- My Fair Lady, The Philadelphia Story, Adam’s Rib and moreIn the leading roles we ha

Or the complete lack of agency for Mrs. Manningham in changing her situation, or even in speaking or working through her situation.
And speaking about how it would take radical casting or style to be able to engage with the work as it stands.
The dimming of the gaslight is still a beautiful and chilling image and I think the action of making a person doubt their perception of reality is very relevant today even if this source text does not seem to have withstood the test of time as well.
Quick Summary: The ramblings of a borderline insane middle-aged woman is no longer fluff when a policeman decides to investigate. The play has 5 characters and no one character is written so as to dominate the entire play, it is divided into 3 arcs and each gets sufficient screen time and dialogue. It is a simple mystery with the twist that can be seen from a mile away but enjoyable none the less.
A weak 3-star rating for me. I suspect it might work if I saw it performed instead of reading, but even so I suspect some aspects would feel dated. It was more of a conventional thriller and less of a psychological study than I had expected. The famous gaslights do appear, but are not as central to the plot as the title might suggest.
The psychology of the characters is so apparent and the ending is so satisfying.
Classic, slightly dated story of manipulation.
Literally everyone needs to read this in 2018.
I listened to the full cast audio version. Excellent.
Audio. Play.An excellent little play.
