https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1290402.To_Room_Nineteen
These are my thoughts on the title story only.Susan Rawlings is married to a man she has loved, has four beloved children, is financially comfortable, and seeks a centre and purpose for her life.
(hide spoiler)]Lessing's protagonist has a terrible hunger and the root of it is the emptiness of her inner life in the situation of a financially secure, initially happily married housewife.
Matthew can carry on a secret affair; he has an independent emotional life.
So the creative confrontation, the artist's episode of self-discovery, is not accessible to Susan, and Lessing sees this as a fatal disaster.
Started reading because of the Korean drama Because This is My First Life. It is said that married men like to sit in their cars in the garage before going back home. Marriage is a chasm and we are all trying to enjoy the fall.
"이번 생은 처음이라" 때문에 이것을 읽었다.
I actually only read Room 19 (my version wasn't a collection) and LOVED it.
You could easily summarise this as a book about an ungrateful woman suffering a mid-life crisis and find it devoid of anything new or interesting - but boy would you be way off the mark.I don't want to presume to know what Ms Lessing was thinking about when she wrote this but it certainly made me wonder what it takes to be happy, consider how much we can actually manufacture our own happiness and whether that changes with time.So many things to think about coming from such a short story.
อานไปชวงแรก เรานึกถึงเลม "ซึงมิอาจปลอบประโลม" ของ อานน โกดารเพราะยังไมรูวาเรืองจะเปนไปยังไง แตอานไปไดอยางลืนไหล เพราะการแปลของผูแปล ทีชวยใหคนอานรูสึกวา ประโยคมันอานตอไปไดเรือยๆ สามารถจับอารมณความรูสึกของผูแตงได โดยไมทำใหรูสึกเบือแตอยางใด ถึงแมวาตนเรืองจะยังจับประเดนอะไรไมไดกเถอะในเลม ทีหองหมายเลขสิบเกา นี พออานมาถึงหนาที 19 เทานันละ คุณเอยย (อาว.. ทำไมบังเอิญจัง 19 เหมือนกันอีก ...รึ สนพ.เขาตังใจใหตรงกันแนหนอ) พอ 19 หนาชวงหลัง เรืองกเริมเขมขนขึนกับความคิดของตัวละครเอกทีชือ ซูซาน รอลิงส ผูทีเปนทั
อ่านไปช่วงแรก เรานึกถึงเล่ม "ซึ่งมิอาจปลอบประโลม" ของ อานน์ โกดาร์เพราะยังไม่รู้ว่าเรื่องจะเป็นไปยังไง แต่อ่านไปได้อย่างลื่นไหล เพราะการแปลของผู้แปล ที่ช่วยให้คนอ่านรู้สึกว่า ประโยคมันอ่านต่อไปได้เรื่อยๆ สามารถจับอารมณ์ความรู้สึกของผู้แต่งได้ โดยไม่ทำให้รู้สึกเบื่อแต่อย่างใด ถึงแม้ว่าต้นเรื่องจะยังจับประเด็นอะไรไม่ได้ก็เถอะในเล่ม ที่ห้องหมายเลขสิบเก้า นี้ พออ่านมาถึงหน้าที่ 19 เท่านั้นล่ะ คุณเอ๋ยย (อ้าว.. ทำไมบังเอิญจัง 19 เหมือนกันอีก ...รึ สนพ.เขาตั้งใจให้ตรงกันแน่หนอ) พอ 19 หน้าช่วงหลัง เรื่องก็เริ่มเข้มข้นขึ้นกับความคิดของตัวละครเอกที่ชื่อ ซูซาน รอลิงส์ ผู้ที่เป็นทั้งเมีย แม่ และคุณนายรอลิงส์ประจำบ้าน ที่ต้องคอยเป็นทุกสิ่งอย่างแต่ขณะเดียวกัน กลับรู้สึกว่าตนไม่มีตัวตน หรือไม่ได้เป็นตัวของตัวเองเอาเสียเลย (อ่านถึงช่วงนี้ก็นึกไปถึงเล่ม "ความรักใดจะไม่ปวดร้าว" ของ ชวนหนี) หลังจากที่ซูซานคิดแล้วคิดอีก เธอก็เริ่มหาที่ทางให้กับตัวเอง ที่ๆเธอรู้สึกว่าเป็นที่ของเธอจริงๆ ในตอนจบของเรื่องสำหรับเราเล่มนี้ส่วนหนึ่งคือ เป็นเล่มที่สะท้อนให้เห็นถึงการดำเนินชีวิตไป ของการมีครอบครัว ว่าต้องผจญกับความรู้สึกแบบใด ความรับผิดชอบต่ออะไร แล้วมีปัญหากันอย่างไร ทั้งฝ่ายหญิง (ภรรยา) ฝ่ายชาย(สามี) หรือแม้แต่ ฝ่ายลูกๆ เองก็ด้วย (เผลอๆ อาจจะเจ็บปวดกว่าคนเป็นพ่อแม่รึเปล่าก็ไม่รู้ได้ ) เพราะมีฉากบรรยายในส่วนของลูกไว้ด้วยเหมือนกันแล้วที่จริง ปัญหาครอบครัวนี้มันอยู่ที่ตรงไหนล่ะป.ล.ไม่รู้จะเกี่ยวไหม แต่เคยอ่านเจอว่า คุณแม่ลูกอ่อนมักเสี่ยงเป็น โรคซึมเศร้าหลังคลอด เหตุเพราะ บทบาทในชีวิตต้องเปลี่ยนไปนี่เอง
This story had me at “The Rawlings’ marriage was grounded in intelligence”, because that’s the kind of statement that is a) a recipe for disaster; b) such a sardonic remark that sets the ironic tone right away – just the way I like it. It turns out that I really like Doris Lessing. This is quite different from the book I’ve read of hers (The Cleft) and kind of reminds me of Atwood (for me, that’s a great compliment). They have the same dry sarcastic sort of writing. It also reminds me of Gilman
This story had me at “The Rawlings’ marriage was grounded in intelligence”, because that’s the kind of statement that is a) a recipe for disaster; b) such a sardonic remark that sets the ironic tone right away – just the way I like it.
This short story starts off quite innocently, pairing up husband and wife in their seemingly equal circumstances… Up until the wife is singled out in the task of giving up her career to look after their children.
There is no way to win this game.(view spoiler)[That’s why it’s so obvious from the start that this story is going to end up in suicide.
They had everything they had wanted and had planned for.And yet...That's the problem!Too much of something is in itself a sickness that can drive you to madness. When you have everything you have ever wished for, have ever wanted and planned for, what is there more to have and look forward to then?
It's the first English story that I found interesting, even it doesn't have many events.
Gripping. Flowing. Sad.
3.5 ratherOn "To Room Nineteen":Halfway between Chopin's The Awakening and Perkins Gilman's "The Yellow Wallpaper" and updated to the 20th century. However, while Edna Pontellier's end is depicted as victorious and Gilman's "madwoman" also reaches a freedom of sorts, Susan seems to succumb under her entrapment after a short-lived freedom (always of sorts). The insight into the protagonist's thoughts, however, makes the story refreshing and original if not as hopeful as the two above.
I was almost certain that would be the downfall, as it often is in relationships of the sort where partners treat it as a business unit rather than the union of two loving, beautifully flawed, emotional beings.Well, the story kind of lost me when later on in their marriage, the wife started blaming her anxieties on demons, and talked about literally seeing demons.
A few hours a day of solitude, without needing to manage four children, a husband and two maids.So she does this by sneaking secretly renting a hotel room three times a week.
There was a certain slide into contentment at the end at making a decision that was solely her own, not needing to answer to anyone else for it, and I also felt the frustration of not getting the help or support that she so desperately needed, and the fear of reprisal if she should actually tell anyone how she was feeling.
I also felt frustrated with her, because I can only empathize with her feelings, not being able to say they are my own, but it is rather telling that this story can evoke so many emotions in just a few pages that some very long drawn out novels can never hope to tap dance near.
To Room Nineteen is a short story about marriage and the hidden truths in conformity. Lessing’s use of realism shows what it’s like to be an intellectual and married with a family in the 1960’s.
Tenemos protagonistas mujeres, hombres, incluso niños que son muy bien representados en historias con las que puedes relacionarte.
Hay de todo un poco con ese toque de redacción impecable e íntima llena de crudeza y honestidad que marcan a Doris Lessing como una de las mejores escritoras de su tiempo.Creo que las historias que más me llegaron fueron: To Room Nineteen, Two Men, The habit of loving, The Other Woman y How I finally lost my heart.
En general todas son muy buenas pero estas robaron mi corazón, especialmente la que da nombre a esta colección de cuentos.
This small novel was very helpful to understand and discuss the "trapped housewife syndrome" in class for gender studies.
At first place I thought it would only be another story about a depressed housewife who is not able to find fulfillment in her daily routine and family life, but it had some very nice metaphors and descriptions of feelings in it.
Some parts were really exciting and catching for me (dialogues with her husband, hotel feelings).The ending left me with a dull and sad feeling and I was surprised to feel that way about the action, although I kind of figured that the plot would not open up a whole new story twist.
Wonderful discussion on identity.....
To cut a long story short, a good kdrama recommended this book, so I went for a quick check on web only to find out that the book is actually a collection of short stories - and I picked only the main title.To Room 19 is about a marriage woman longing for freedom she had during her maiden days - to disconnect with her husband and kids' commitment and to enjoy her own company; that she rent a room by herself just to escape to be alone once in a while.Ending was unexpected.
I could somewhat relate to the main character in a certain way, feeling limits sometimes. The end was foreseeable and fitting.
Such a chilling book, makes you really question the purpose of marriage and everything related to it
Splendid! "To room nineteen"! She got everything a woman may want to have and could not bear that. This story is of real current interest for a contemporary woman.
depressing.
An incredible story, deep and moving.
Brilliant.
This collection encompasses female wisdom from multiple perspectives, stories told as we live them, experiencing the overt reality with the tacit psychology woven in.
A foreign holiday to a worthy destination that the couple can never really enjoy, because the foreigners seem to be having much more of a good time - and a different view of what makes them worthy - is funny because the English couple hardly expected the Germans to be having so much fun post-War, while the impoverished English can scarcely afford the restaurants the German families frequent.
Beautifully poised incisive writing reveals our prejudices to ourselves.

It's classed as a short story, but it's longer than you would think a short story to be but it's not a novella (like Robert Louis Stevenson's, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde).If you have any negative ideas about short stories and how 'they're boring', To Room Nineteen will completely dispel any negativity you feel.Susan Rawlings is married to a man she has loved, has four beloved children, is financially comfortable, and seeks a centre and purpose for her life.
But alas, this is no English essay, this is me telling you how amazing Lessing is as a writerTo Room Nineteen online in a pdf format.From the very first sentence of the story, we are thrown straight into the marriage of Matthew and Susan Rawlings and the dynamic of their relationship.
La verdad es que no esperaba mucho de esta novel corta, pero ha sido un relato que me ha acabado gustando mucho tanto por la escritura de la autora por la historia en si.'To Room Nineteen' nos relata la historia de una 'pareja perfecta', la típica pareja americana que tiene buena relación, un buen trabajo, hijos, una buena casa... pero como siempre, no es oro todo lo que reluce. Doris nos narra todo lo que pasa por la mente de nuestra protagonista, la mujer de la relación, nos enseña sus deseos y sus frustraciones...Simplemente espectacular!
What is realy remarkleble about this story is that it brings up subjects of discussions that, even today for many people, are considered better left alone.
Even if many women today have the chanse to work and to educate, they never admit that marriage and children are not everything.
But society demands a woman to be the one taking care of the children and the hosehold, while the men mostly are suppose to bring the money and put food on the table.
Since this is still common in todays society, the "To Room Nineteen" is still very relevant.
I prefer Lessing's novels to her stories but I picked this up from the library in order to read To Room 19.
I recently read Michael Cunningham's The Hours and someone on this board recommended I read this Lessing story.
While The Hours is obviously an ode to Mrs. Dalloway, it gives an equal bow to Ms. Lessing's story To Room 19.
I think what gives Lessing's story such brillance is the brutal honesty on relationships that people prefer not to think about.
I didn't have time to read all the stories in this collection but To Room 19 is one I highly recommend.
Wracking my brain to recall all those great college reads!!Lessing was one I remember as having a strong impact and I think it was the story of this books's title - "Room 19" that resonated with me so much. I am also a fan because of the provocative statement she made she received the Nobel Prize for literature in 2007 A Hunger for Books It gave me fuel for my project to try to help build libraries and computer centers in Cote d'Ivoire, West Africa...Children of the Diaspora, United!
