https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/561196.The_Figure_of_Beatrice
My friend, Katherine Picton, highly recommended this book.
In a class of its own as Dante criticism, by an author in a class of his own. Anyone expecting him to be like C. S. Lewis or Tolkien, is in for a shock - and a very enjoyable, thought-provoking & memorable shock at that. Those who have read Dorothy Sayers' translation of Dante will have come across something of him at second hand, but there is no substitute for Williams' own Dante criticism. This book is part theology, part literature, part commentary, and wholly brilliant. Read this book.
And I have The Figure of Beatrice to thank - it increased my love of Dante SO MUCH.You wouldn't expect that a study of a seven hundred year old poem could be that relevant to my own life and feelings, but it was.
I didn't think there was so much more genius in The Divine Comedy than I had realized, but there is and I've hardly begun to understand it.Charles Williams was a scholar greatly admired by Dorothy Sayers (who gave me my own introduction to Dante) and was a good friend of C.S. Lewis.
If it increases your love and understanding of Dante half as much as it did mine, you will be a very happy reader.
This is one of the most difficult books I've ever read, but wholly worth it: it's packed with meaning.
And yet the prose is without false complexity and academic jargon.If you love Dante, this book will help you love and understand him better.
If you've read some of Williams's novels and are confused as to why CS Lewis liked the guy's company so much, this book will help restore your equanimity.
I am now intensely interested in reading the Comedy again, which is one of the great tests of all critical work.
"The immediate suggestion, put forward elsewhere, which coincides with that canzone, is that what Dante sees is the glory of Beatrice as she is 'in heaven' — that is, as God chose her, unfallen, original; or (if better) redeemed; but at least, either way, celestial.
What he sees is something real.
It is not 'realer' than the actual Beatrice who, no doubt, had many serious faults, but it is as real.
Both Beatrices are aspects of one Beatrice."I really appreciate Williams' commentary on Dante.
I was intrigued by this and looked up Williams's The Figure of Beatrice -- and I sensed the same inspiration.Before, I was a typical Dante reader: I made it through the Inferno easily, then gave up on the first terrace of Purgatorio.
In The Figure of Beatrice, Williams is able to lose himself so much in Dante that through him I saw the beauty and practicality of Dante's final two volumes.
I still don't get Convivio or De Monarchia the same way that I "get" Vita or the Divine Comedy, so a few parts of Williams' book were hard going (and a few passages are ethically knotty), but the reward is enormous.
Reading Williams is less an exercise in comprehending logical argument than in being immersed in a mood or being shown a spiritual attitude.
Recommended to all die-hard Dante students.
I would warn any casual reader of Dante that you would be coming into the presence of a true lover of the Florentine poet, someone who assumes as great a love on your part as there is on his own.
(On a biographical note: You might say that Williams is the intellectual grandfather of my own fascination with the Italian Epic; his admiration inspired Dorothy Sayers to read and then translate the Divine Comedy, and I in turn was inspired by Sayers.
This was undoubtedly one of the most difficult books I've ever read. The only way I made it through was by making copious notes in the margins, and going very slowly. The book got quite a bit easier after Williams began discussing the Commedia, but this is probably because I am familiar with the Commedia and not with Dante's earlier works. This book was truly great on every level. As a commentary on Dante it was superb. As a work of philosophical theology, it was challenging. And it was, to my surprise, a great devotional book on marriage as well.
Suddenly it all makes snse.
So Williams gives his first purpose here as divining "the Way of the Affirmation of Images as a method of process towards the inGodding of man" (16).Dante began his poetic life with an intense personal experience.
Don't call practical theology what Williams does with Dante; it is a far better analysis of image and symbol that all writers love, but pointless without the intense personal experience that obviates the words anyway.
Williams has written a lot of Wordsworth too, whose Prelude he cites about love and the imagination here in a support role, the personal experience of both, Wordsworth's of nature, Dante's of Beatrice.
I have been struggling with this book all year, although it is probably more accurate to say struggling against this book. As always when I read Charles Williams, I am not especially confident that I understand him. However, I think I do understand Dante better.
A very deep study of Beatrice's place in Dante's work, with an emphasis on the mystical and the contemplative. At times doesn't feel so much a work of criticism as a literary product in its own right. Written somewhat obscurely in places.
I had wanted to read Dante's The Divine Comedy for some time, but felt stymied by its length and breadth and depth.
As it turned out, I had stumbled on an excellent course of study starting with CSL's book on the Medieval World of Literature, then moving to Williams's The Figure of Beatrice: A Study in Dante which I read concurrently with Dante.
I wanted a way into Dante's poetry and Charles Williams delivered it to me.
And the power of Dante's craftsmanship - a melding of erudition, thematic choice, and poetic mastery - made contact with me across the centuries thanks to Charles Williams and his slender book of observations and insights.
Williams provides excellent insights on the role of Beatrice in all of Dante's works spanning his lifetime, but his vocabulary is his own ("in-Godding", "in-othering") and his language therefore is impenetrably abstruse at times.
Four stars for Fabulous Book, the one star taken off for Deliberate Academic Obfuscation of Terms.The basic concept was, that Beatrice qua Beatrice figures herself in works like the Convivio and the Vita Nuova; but by the time we get to the Divina Commedia, she has taken on the role of God-Bearing Image.

This book is not only for Dante scholars, but bit is rather an exposition of Williams' theology. It helps if you know a little about Charles Williams (one of the Inklings. The early chapters are particularly interesting where he lays out his view of what actually happened between Dante and Beatrice, how Beatrice transformed Dante's life. Also, how for a man, a woman can carry a high spiritual vision. Readers of Carl Jung will recognize the "anima projection", how the woman within us can have a trans-formative effect on the human psyche.
Between this book and Dorothy Sayers' commentary, anyone with a significant interest in Dante should be satisfied. Williams' insights are profound in understanding of the text and of Christian ideas. While a bit dense for a casual reader who wants a basic understanding of Dante, this is a wonderful read for anyone seeking to gain deeper insights into the text and the world of Dante's works. The bulk of the content focuses around the Comedy, but Williams builds his case by also incorporating the Vita and the Convivio. Very thorough.
I read something like, 'Charles Williams was as ugly as a monkey but when he spoke about the work of Dante his countenance was transformed so that he became as beautiful as an angel.' Reading this book must give a taste of that experience to us.
