https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6958125-the-horse-dealer-s-daughter
Ummm...that was interesting. Can’t really tell if the ending was supposed to be happy or tragic. Either way it was strange
This is how easy it is for a man to fall in love.
He is alone with a woman.
Not ugly, or too old, or very young, but he had never checked her out before, had never thought of even flirting with her.
And the woman cries and tells him she loves him.
He had crossed over the gulf to her, and all that he had left behind had shrivelled and become void."That is how easy it is for a man to fall in love.
Not entirely too much happens, but I must admit that I sincerely appreciate Lawrence's writing. It may not be his finest text, but it's probably the first time I was able to take notice of what talent he has. There is, after all, a reason his writing has been canonized.
I enjoyed this story! I love modern fiction.
Same review as the white stocking. I like Lawrence so far.
That's one way to nab a husband
Read it again after quite time but still it feels the same.Something strange, sad or unusual.
“His heart, which seemed to have broken, was burning with a kind of agony in his breast.” “He wanted to remain like that for ever, with his heart hurting him in a pain that was also life to him.” “The saying seemed to tear open again his newly-torn heart.” It continues in almost every paragraph until Mabel asks if he must leave her, and he silently says, “And she looked at him… And again, from the pain in his breast, he knew how he loved her.”The use of repetition strengthens the story by convincing the reader what the narrator wants him or her to believe.
Mabel might have become, in about 25 pages of literature, one of the most annoying characters I have EVER read about...an impressive achievement.
A posh rich girl who cannot swallow her own pride and do a job that will support her family decides it will be "better to die than to do any peasant jobs." She then proceeds to attempt suicide, admittedly something I wasn't devastated about, to only be saved by the courageous doctor risking his own life for this impudent, cynical, spoiled brat of a girl to only be forced into marrying her due to saving her life.
D. H. Lawrence has got to be an author with one of the most unique writing styles I've ever read. The other day I'd been reading up on Freud, who is hands-down the horniest psychologist in the history of psychology. But to have sensuality in the way that Lawrence portrays it, with the main female protagonist pressing her chest against "his thighs.. his knees, his legs..." is quite something. Interesting.. will be checking up on Lawrence another day.
A beautiful story that reads as an allegory for Christ's love for his followers. I read this for Apocrypha and Christian Scriptures: Biblical Backgrounds to English Literature. Mabel and Doctor Ferguson both embody Christ, one being the unexpected and somewhat hesitant martyr, the other the conventional healer.
Historia de una soltera que busca hacer su vida yun joven doctor.La baja autoestima de ella y losprejuicios sociales de él atentan contra la promesade boda.Buen estilo pero un poco culebrón.Pendientemás de este autor.
Structurally confusing and altogether cliche. Liked elements of it but besides that, it wasn't anything spectacular.
Lawrence and romance...
Obviously I am taking a Literature class. This was a story that began with complete hopelessness and ended with a glimmer of hope. Gotta love a happy ending.
The Horse Dealer's Daughter was ok but not something I would read again. I may check out other stories by this author though.
