https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/875737.Physical_Examination_and_Health_Assessment_With_CDROM_
Except that I diagnosed myself with skin cancer, a bulging vertebral disc, as well as at least twenty other conditions while reading this, so maybe that isn't a very good idea.Seriously, I cannot stress enough the potential for harm.
This was assigned reading in a BSN-level class and as such, was a seriously inappropriate text.
Unfortunately, some assessments seem quite outdated to modern practice.
It's divided by systems (oh, how medical of them) and each chapter begins with a short biology review and follows with pictures of the step-by-step systems assessment.
At the end of each chapter were a number of the aforementioned pictures depicting abnormal conditions.
Almost done with this one, too.. Liked it better than Potter Perry.....
Perhaps I'm biased as I had the great fortune of having Professor Jarvis as my health assessment instructor during nursing school, but I think the book is fabulous.
Out of all of my nursing textbooks it was honestly one of the most helpful and easiest to understand.
I have seen anesthesiologists and surgeons do quick lung percussions amongst other things that are 'lost skills' now due to reliance on machinery and technology.
Even if not all the things done are necessarily within scope of practice for RN's it is still VERY important to know how assessments are done, and what to look for when performing them in order to fully assist a physician or NP.
Everything you need to know about how to chart this or that found during an assessment. Helpful, but mind-numbing.
I loved this book! It's well written, easy to read, and cuts to the chase. Read the side notes and use the lab book if included, it helps.
This is a great book, puts all the nursing things together, examination and putting together the whole nursing "thing".I enjoy this course and wish it had started earlier.This is a lifetime book and one I actually LIKE to read. :)
I hate school. :(
good
Beats FYAD for gross pics
good
Very informative textbook for my Holistic Health Assessment class!
Pretty decent reference for a Health Assessment class.
Very clearly written. Still need to practice on Bill. Maybe over the holidays... "Okay, now turn your head and cough."
FINALLY I have a text with decent photographs, and bless everyone of those folks with their eyes barely blacked out captured on film for my scrutiny.
alkejrwier'prRwerWRwtwt
