https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1035708.Mr_Skeffington
Mr Skeffington was Elizabeth von Arnim’s last published novel, written when in her 70s it certainly shows a certain preoccupation with ageing – (as did her 1925 novel Love).
Elizabeth von Arnim’s adorable irony is present from the first page, her voice is instantly recognisable.
(Spoiler, a certain book blogger not a million miles away will herself be approaching that birthday in thirteen months’ time – so, despite still having this year’s birthday to get out of the way first, I entirely sympathised).
Attempting to help her dear, adored brother; Trippington, Fanny married a wealthy Jewish businessman, and converted her religion in order to do so – she has never bothered to change it back.
The moral is always the same.Elizabeth von Arnim takes up with an aging coquette, long after men have ceased to romanticize her.
It's a cautionary tale and true enough.
Perhaps the Paris Hiltons of the world are good for feminism!
Perhaps Paris Hilton is good...for feminism?
Perhaps Paris Hilton is good...for feminism?
No matter how many times I say it, it still sounds weird...No, I suppose it's just human nature to prolong adolescence for as long as possible.
It's only human to utilize privilege...until you find that privilege gone.
I want to spend time with protagonists that I truly love.
This novel should be required reading for any woman under forty who has ever uttered the words, "I am not a feminist.""Mr. Skeffington" is the polar opposite of feminism.
The story (told with an archness that rapidly set my teeth on edge) is that of Lady Frances Skeffington, a former society belle who divorced her husband twenty years ago and has led a delightful life since then, rejecting suitors right and left (Skeffington left her quite wealthy).
She is an embarrassment, and much of the novel concerns her gradual recognition of the utter demise of her beauty, and by extension, of her power and value in society.
If you like English writers and their particular brand of clever humor and wit, Elizabeth von Arnim is just great.
She also wrote Enchanted April which is one of my all time favorite novels AND movie.This book is about a 50 year old woman, Fanny, sometime in the 1920s I'm guessing, who has been blessed with money, great beauty and charm.
But she is just recovering from a serious illness which has made her look very much her age.Von Arnim relates, with great humor and sensitivity, Fanny's growing realization that she is far from looking as young on the outside as she feels on the inside.
Mr. Skeffington (1944)imdb blurb - Popular and beautiful Fanny Trellis is forced into a loveless marriage with an older man, Jewish banker Job Skeffington, in order to save her beloved brother Trippy from an embezzlement charge and predictable complications result.Bette Davis ... Fanny Trellis  Claude Rains ... Job Skeffington  Walter Abel ... George Trellis  George Coulouris ... Doctor Byles  Richard Waring ... Trippy TrellisTrippy Trellis - what a name.
I decided to read this after seeing the movie of the same name, starring Bette Davis and Claude Rains.
The book is very different from the film, partly because it is very English, and also because, despite its title, it focuses entirely on Mrs Skeffington, an ageing beauty looking back at her succession of lovers, and struggling to decide what to do with the rest of her life.
In the film the husband is a major character too.
I enjoyed it mainly because of von Arnim's beautifully readable and witty writing style, which has left me wanting to read more by her.
I always loved the movie and was excited to find a 1940 edition of the novll through my local library. The book is so much better! I'm still pondering why Job haunted Fanny. Was it her guilt? Her fear of being alone and becoming irrelevant? Perhaps there was a deeper connection with Job that bound them together since he was her only husband? One thing that has not changed for women: we still put too much emphasis on youth and outward appearances!
En realidad la novela 'El señor Skeffington' es como el epílogo de la vida de Fanny, porque en esta novela Fanny se irá reencontrando con los que fueron sus amantes en el pasado e irá descubriendo que el tiempo pasa para todo el mundo.
Sí, es una novela anticlimática que alarga demasiado las situaciones, pero también tiene aciertos, principalmente la descripción psicológica de personajes, metiendo el dedo en la llaga de la mezquindad, el egoísmo, los aires de superioridad, y el orgullo sobredimensionado, de todos y cada uno de ellos.
I love the movie that is based on this book, so I had to read it.
Overall, I loved it.
Quoting from the book, here's the whole idea in a nutshell:"What could be sillier in other people's eyes than a woman kicking up a fuss because she too, in her turn, had grown old, and her beauty was gone?
Yet what could be more tragic for the woman, who, having been used all her life to being beautiful, found that without her looks she had nothing to fall back upon?
'There ought to be something to fall back upon.
A story by a wonderful author!
Fanny is going to be 50!
She has a long lost divorced husband Job, disposed of for his string of daliences with secretaries, how could he prefer them to her?
But it is now 25 years later and Fanny has just come out of a devastating illness of diphtheria.
Her looks are gone, her face is ravaged and her hair has fallen out.
In the weeks preceding her birthday Fanny visits a variety of the men who loved her, looking for - love, adoration, companionship, Fanny is not sure, especially with Job haunting her.
Because I LOVE The Enchanted April (the book and the movie), I decided to read Mr. Skeffington, also made into a movie (which I haven't seen yet). It is a little gem of a story, very British upper crust, precious and often quite funny, with a surprising O. Henry-esque ending. The main character is Fanny, Lady Skeffington, who is pampered, wealthy and most of all, beautiful. Just shy of fifty, her beauty, and her happiness, is fading, leaving her in doubt as to what to do with the rest of her life. Read the book and find out!
I loved this book! You have to remember it was written in 1940 and things were certainly different then!The feelings this woman has as she "ages" are still valid today, and this is one of the most humorousand human writes I have read.
I loved this book.Funny in parts and I could certainly relate to it being of a certain age!
Brava !! She nails it.
Should be required reading for all divorced women "of a certain age" who have been through the dating game. You'll immediately sympathize with Fanny while wanting to lecture her, and wincing when you find traits in her that you recognize in yourself. But not to worry--lots of other people manage to lecture her. You simply must keep turning pages to find out how she's going to deal with the need to reinvent herself to compensate for her lost beauty.
3 1/2 starsJeez, 50 years of age is the kiss of death? How depressing.
Having been a recent "convert" to the Claude Rheins/Bette Davis movie of the same name, I was fascinated to find that it was based on a book by an author that had written another book that I loved: Enchanted April.
HOWEVER, both books don't quite live up to their adaptations.In Skeffington the movie, the history and present of Lady Francis Skeffington are told through her eyes.
In the book, she is reflecting on her past as she reaches her 50th birthday, visiting with her former paramours and seeing how their lives had changed, been enriched or challenged by her.
It's a lovely book
Questa è la storia di una donna, un tempo bellissima che, dopo una lunga malattia che le è quasi costata la vita, si ritrova a un passo dai suoi 50 anni, completamente privata dalla sua bellezza.
Potrebbe essere una cosa superabile per la maggior parte delle donne che impegnerebbero tutti i propri pensieri al benessere dei figli, della famiglia o nel lavoro.
Fanny, infatti, non ha figli, non ha famiglia, avendo divorziato circa trent'anni prima dal signor Skeffington e non ha mai lavorato in vita sua.
Ed ecco che Fanny affronta in rapida successione tutti gli uomini che un tempo l'avevano amata per rimanere sconvolta dal vedere le loro espressioni, davanti al suo nuovo aspetto.
However the end of the novel takes an interesting twist which made it all worth the wait for me.Some reviews are saying that this novel is anti-feminist, which I think misses the point.
Von Arnim doesn't make a value judgment on this, it's simply a fact that as true in this novel as it would be in real life in such a situation.
The real point is what do you as the reader learn from that?
And how do her circumstances throughout the novel and most importantly at its end change her and your views?
Per una serie di circostanze ella ritrova gli uomini dei quali aveva conquistato l'amore: ma tutti si sono fatti una nuova vita che non intendono rimettere in gioco.
Se vuole sopravvivere deve confrontarsi con una diversa percezione di sé e riorganizzare la propria esistenza".La penna della Von Armin è sempre l’affilato rasoio che incide la scorza delle convenzioni sociali con gelida spietatezza, e questa commedia sull'umano sfiorire è una perla di delizia ironica e femminile, con una bitter end tutta da riflettere (da pag.284, "Era così allora la vita sotto la patina dei sorrisi.")
Finished this book about two years ago, and it's one of those that got better and better the more I thought about it.
I am a big fan of Elizabeth von Arnim's work, which transitioned throughout her life from an early post-Victorian lyrical phase (Elizabeth and Her German Garden) through the sad but deftly drawn post-WWI years (The Enchanted April) through this, her last work.
Von Arnim had issues of her own that figured in her works, and themes like the loss of beauty with age and the changes in romantic love that come to elderly women.
This is an interesting concept for a story, where a woman who was once a great beauty is getting older and has lost her beauty.
For the most part I liked the story, my biggest complaint was that I felt it always took the characters so long to figure things out that the author explains to you right off, so then you are just trying to wade through all their misunderstandings until the character's figure out the problem.
And instead of solving the problem, the author has just created excuses to get out of most of the conflicts.
He is Fanny's ex-husband, who she divorced 22 years earlier and who has been appearing to her in visions since she recovered from the illness that robbed her of her beauty.If this book hadn't been written back in 1940, I'd have been righteously pissed off by the relentless suggestions from everyone Fanny encounters that an aging woman can't be happy unless she is married.
I was similarly insulted by the idea that a woman shouldn't divorce her husband even though he's had affairs with seven women.But I have to confess that I like a happy ending and really enjoyed the book in spite of the outdated social mores.
Oddly different from the famous movie version (Bette Davis and Claude Rains), but quite enjoyable.
And I hesitate to make comparisons between the movie and book versions for fear I'll reveal spoilers to people who haven't seen or read them already.The title character is much less important in the movie than Mrs Skeffington is, and in the book he's even less visible than in the movie.
The whole approach to the story is different in the book, and it works well.
(The book's approach never would have worked for the movie.)
AUGH it's so EPISODIC and I've had to renew it twice already because the plot is not connected/compelling enough to get me through the entire thing! It's mostly good writing, but the disconnectedness of all the stories and the seriously intransigent nature of the main character are turning me off. Lady, will you ever change? The point of the book is clearly that you must change! CHANGE!! DO IT!!
I really like Elizabeth von Arnim. I've greatly enjoyed most of her books, and absolutely loved Elizabeth and her German Garden, Fraulein Schmidt & Mr. Anstruther, and Enchanted April. So Mr. Skeffington was a big disappointment. It was, in a word, nasty. For oh, so many, reasons :(Full review at The Indextrious Reader
Just love it! An alltime favourite!Here is the English review: AND THEN THEY START TO SPARKLEund hier die Deutsche Besprechung: DIE KATZE IM BÜCHERREGAL
Me ne son tenuta lontana a lungo, temendo che l'omonimo film lo ricalcasse troppo; invece Elizabeth von Arnim di nuovo mi stupisce, con la non-così-sciocca Fanny, tenuta in una condizione di adolescenza dalla propria travolgente bellezza e dall'ammirazione di chi la circondava.Finchè la bellezza svanisce, gli ammiratori pure, e Fanny deve crescere.Meraviglioso.
This book drew me right in. We get to see a woman who has lived on and been spoiled by her incredible beauty and it is now gone. She must figure out how to live and re-visit some of the old people in her past to clear the way.
I'm such a fan of this particular genre of novel - clever, British (of course!), and light handed but with something more to say beneath it all. And always, unerring insight into each vastly different character. I get happy when I think of the years of Von Arnim novels I have yet to enjoy.
