https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/843019.Eating_the_Alphabet
Just as the sub-title indicates, this is an A to Z listing of fruits and vegetables paired with water color illustrations.The best part?
For younger children: letter identification (by sight or by sound).
The book is a spring board for a letter game at the store, in the kitchen, etc.For older children, make a listing of all the fruits/vegetables you have not tried, then start tasting.
The best was when they were turning their noses up at swiss chard and I was like, "You KNOW this veggie!
It's in the book!" And then I showed them the picture, they recognized it, and they ate it.
"Eating the Alphabet: Fruits And Vegetables From A To Z" is a fun picture book.
The main purpose of this book is to educate children about the Alphabet while teaching them the names of many fruits and vegetables.
For each letter in the book their are pictures of both veggies and fruits that start with that letter.
I only gave this book three stars for a few reasons.
The best thing about this book is at the end where each fruit and veggie pictures is described.
This would be the perfect book for starting a cooking lesson or a lesson about eating healthy.
The paintings are wonderful and I really enjoyed this book even though there’s no story at all.
I think this book could get young kids interested in eating various vegetables and fruits.
The best part of the book was at the end, each fruit and vegetable has an information paragraph about: when it first grew, and where in the world it’s from, how it grows, its colors, etc.
information.
It is also terrific for beginning readers because throughout the book each fruit and vegetable is spelled in both capital and small letters.
Really liked this one. Lots of colorful pictures and new words of fruits and veggies to learn from A to Z. Good for preschoolers and older kids alike to expand their vocabulary. It's said that we don't even use 40% of the vocabulary we actual know, and books are the best way of doing that. Seriously, read a kids book and I'll bet you find at least one word you know, but hardly ever use. That's how the children learn. It's awesome. Great book for learning.
Text: 5 starsIllustrations: 5 starsAlphabet book presenting fruits and vegetables for each letter of the alphabet.
Most letters feature more than one food, and there's even an entry for the letter X.
The last few pages contain more information (i.e. pronunciation guide, classification of fruit or vegetable, where grown, how it grows, when introduced) for each of the food items mentioned within the text.
Research is valuable, but young readers will be most interested in the colorful, expertly executed illustrations.
Art style achieves the perfect balance between realism (so that young people can recognize the foods) and Ehlers's more iconic representations in Chicka Chicka Boom Boom.
Really liked this one. Lots of colorful pictures and new words of fruits and veggies to learn from A to Z. Good for preschoolers and older kids alike to expand their vocabulary. It's said that we don't even use 40% of the vocabulary we actual know, and books are the best way of doing that. Seriously, read a kids book and I'll bet you find at least one word you know, but hardly ever use. That's how the children learn. It's awesome. Great book for learning.
Colorful and fun AND I learned about ugli fruit (a fruit thought to be native to the Far East. It grows on trees) and xigua (Chinese name for watermelon). This was such fun!
Great way to introduce fruits and vegetables to children the pictures are bold. If they do not like to eat fruit and vegetables this gives you a chance to be creative. It teaches the ABC's as well.
I'm thinking I should make my kids try everyone of the fruits and vegetables in this book!
Title: Eating the AlphabetAuthor: Lois EhlertIllustrator: Lois EhlertGenre: alphabet bookTheme(s): alphabet, picture book, foodOpening line/sentence “APRICOT apricot, ARTICHOKE artichoke)Brief Book Summary Ehlert uses uppercase and lowercase letters to introduce different fruit and vegetables. Colorful illustrations of each fruit of vegetable correspond with every word. At the end of the book there is an interesting fact about each food.Professional Recommendation/Review #1 Name of reviewer: Kat
Title:  Eating the AlphabetAuthor: Lois Ehlert Illustrator: Lois Ehlert Genre:  alphabet bookTheme(s):  alphabet, picture book, foodOpening line/sentence “APRICOT apricot, ARTICHOKE artichoke)Brief Book Summary Ehlert uses uppercase and lowercase letters to introduce different fruit and vegetables.
At the end of the book there is an interesting fact about each food.Professional Recommendation/Review #1 Name of reviewer: Kathleen KarrName of source: CLCDLink: http://www.clcd.com/#/bookdetail/1/0/...
The alphabet function is still foremost, and the name of each item pictured is printed in both upper and lower case in large, readable type--giving the truly precocious future gourmet the opportunity to learn the correct spelling for such delicacies as rutabaga and radicchio.
1. Awards the book has received (if any): None2. Appropriate grade level(s): Preschool to Kindergarten 3. Original 3-line summary: This book contains uppercase and lowercase letters. It also have includes fruits and vegetables that have the same letter. This is a great first book for students learning the alphabet and there are also some fruits and vegetables that the student could have already encountered at home or out in the grocery store with their families. 4. Original 3-line review: This i
Original 3-line summary: This book contains uppercase and lowercase letters.
This is a great first book for students learning the alphabet and there are also some fruits and vegetables that the student could have already encountered at home or out in the grocery store with their families.
It also includes uppercase and lowercase spelling that will help students distinguish different sizes in writing.
Students can create a farmer's market and incorporate the fruits and vegetable they learned in the book.
The students will have to create their own labels for the fruits and vegetable with the guidance of the teacher.
Students can also create an alphabet book using their own favorite foods and incorporate environmental print as well.
Title & Author: Eating the Alphabet by Lois Ehlert1. Awards the book has received: none2. Appropriate Grade Level(s): Pre-k through K3. Summary: This book is great for students learning the alphabet and site letters. For each letter, A-Z, there are two pages dedicated with pictures of fruits and vegetables that start with the specified letter, spelled in all capital and all lower case letters. For example, Aa: APRICOT, apricot4. Review: I love this book! It’s really great for the little ones
Summary: This book is great for students learning the alphabet and site letters.
For each letter, A-Z, there are two pages dedicated with pictures of fruits and vegetables that start with the specified letter, spelled in all capital and all lower case letters.
Also, I really liked how each fruit and/or vegetable on the pages is written in both lower case and capital letters.
5.	2-3 in class uses:Each student picks their favorite fruit or vegetable, they will write out the name of the fruit or vegetable using all capital and all lower case letters.
Which fruit or vegetables are unfamiliar to us?
The book also has a glossary at the end which gives more insight about the foods presented.4.
This book is a super simple way to teach children the alphabet, names of fruits and vegetables, and even capitalization.
I would use this book as an introduction to environmental print.
If children can identify these foods in grocery stores, they are already on their way to becoming readers that can apply knowledge to the real world.
I would also use this book as an introduction to the format of glossaries so children can learn how to use them for future informational texts.
3. This book introduces children to the alphabet and different fruits and vegetables.
This book presents the children with foods from around the world.
I like this book because it has both upper and lower case letters on each page for each word.
I also like that the book is all about healthy foods.
I could use this book during a food unit.
I would read the book and have the students draw a few of their favorite foods from the story.
On chart paper I would list all of the fruits we would incorporate into our salad and have the students raise their hands to say which letter it starts with.
Award(s): N/AGrade: Preschool-1st gradeSummary: This alphabet book teaches upper and lowercase letters to young children in a fun and engaging way by writing the entire book about fruits and vegetables.
Each piece is about a different fruit or vegetable and features the words in all capitals and all lowercase (ex.
Students can enjoy some colorful pictures, new words to expand their vocabulary, and practice distinguishing between capital and lowercase letters.
I also like that the book features foods from all over the world, which helps to create unity and understanding.In Class Use: Students can choose any thing (noun) that they want to write about.
“Eating the Alphabet Fruits & Vegetables from A to Z” by Lois Ehlert; published by Harcourt Brace & Company; San Diego, New York and London; copyright 1989.1. Awards the book has received: This book has not received any awards.2. Appropriate grade level(s): This book is appropriate for children from Preschool- Kindergarten.3. Summary: This book goes through the alphabet and addresses all of the different fruits and vegetables that begin with the letter they are talking about. There are a
Summary: This book goes through the alphabet and addresses all of the different fruits and vegetables that begin with the letter they are talking about.
4.	Review: This book is great for younger kids to practice using their sounds to go along with the starting letter of each fruit or vegetable.
5.	Uses in the classroom:•	Students as an entire group can think of another category and words that go with each letter for that category.•	They can find different things in the classroom for each letter.They can have a fruit and vegetable picnic with what was mentioned in the book.
The decision to include all different types of fruits and vegetables is a great way to familiarize them with the readers, but it was an even better decision to display each word in the two different types of letters because the child has learned that there are upper and lower case letters.
Additionally, some interesting design elements are that the illustrations are done in watercolor and that each letter of the alphabet is displayed with different images of fruits and vegetables.
This is an amazing instrument for helping young readers understand the difference between upper case and lower case letters, as well as acquainting them with healthy food options.
This book is boring to me because I am already extremely familiar with the alphabet and the types of foods it has in it, but I really do think that it can be super helpful for students who are learning the alphabet.
5. This book would be good to use in a classroom because it helps students to associate words with pictures.
It can also be used to help students with letter sounds.
If they know what the food is, they can figure out the initial sound and be able to figure out what the letter on that page sounds like.
It has pictures of all different types of fruits and vegetables, along with the printed words in both capital and lowercase letters.
Even if they cannot read all of the words yet, the pictures of each kind of food will help guide their understanding.
They can use the board book to look at the words and help them spell.
A teacher can also use this book in a classroom to discuss healthy eating and healthy food choices.
They could also bring in plastic fruits and vegetables and have children sort the fake foods into the correct category.
Title: Eating the AlphabetAward: NoneAppropriate grade levels: Preschool - KindergartenSummary: Every letter has two pages full of foods that correspond the letter.
The foods are fruits and vegetables from A to Z.Review: I would give this book a 5 because the students not only are learning their letters, but they are also learning about fruits and vegetables that correspond to that letter.
When the students are learning their letters, it can be very helpful if they can connect the letter to something that they eat.
You can also have the students put the fruits and vegetables into categories of the letter it starts with.
This book has not won any awards."Eating the Alphabet" is appropriate for children ages 2 to 5.In this book, the alphabet is told through different fruits and vegetables from around the world.
This book also includes many different examples of food for each letter.This is a cute book, and teaches the alphabet through the use of food.
Children can learn about new foods while they learn their letters.
There is no story line in this book though, and this will make it a little boring for students who already know the alphabet, or have heard this story before.This book can be used in the classroom to talk about healthy food, and to teach students that there are so many words that start with every letter of the alphabet.
Grade level: Preschool- KindergartenAwards: NoneSummary: Eating the Alphabet by Lois Ehlert is a great book for young readers who are learning the alphabet.
Each letter is presented as an upper and lower case, which begins to teach the young readers the basics of spelling.
Lois Ehlert even placed a detailed glossary at the back of the book describing each fruit and vegetable that was mentioned.
Lois Ehlert provides brightly colored images in her story that would grab any child's attention.
This book would be a great beginning alphabet book for any young reader.
Summary: This is a beautifully illustrated alphabet book that features different kinds of fruits and vegetables for each letter.
The pages feature the letter and the name of the fruit in a big font in both upper and lowercase letters.4.
Review: I really loved the illustrations in this book.
Kids will love looking at these different fruits and vegetables and probably discover something they have never tried before.
It would be really fun to have a fruit and vegetable party while we read this book.
Maybe each student’s parents can supply a different fruit or vegetable for the class to share.
Appropriate grade level(s)Kindergarten-1stOriginal 3-line summaryThis is an alphabet book with wonderful paintings to assist the print.
This book teaches the alphabet through matching the letters up with fruit or vegetables.
This book with extend childrens vocabulary and letter recognition.Original 3-line reviewThis is a great book to teach children about the different letters in the alphabet.
2-3 possible in-class uses This book could be used to help children with letter identification.
The photos resemble words that match the letter being discussed this helps children understand the different letters.The different fruits and veggies mentioned in the book could be brought in the classroom.
Each letter lists at least one fruit or vegetable that starts with the first corresponding letter.
Each letter is accompanied by pictures of the fruit or vegetable for that letter.4.
I also enjoyed that each illustration was bright, yet simple enough to show children what each fruit looks like.5.
Three in-class uses for this book:-Have students share their favorite fruit or vegetable and why-Pick a letter and have students think of a different fruit or vegetable that also starts with the same letter-Teach children the difference between fruit and vegetables and how we can categorize them
Awards: n/a Appropriate grade level(s): preschoolSummary: This picture book uses fruits and vegetables to teach kids about the letters of the alphabet and the sounds letters make.
This book contains large and colorful picture of fruits and vegetables that begin with that letter.
This book writes the name of the fruit and vegetable in both uppercase and lowercase.
I like how this book gives multiple examples of fruits and vegetables that begin with that letter so children really understand that sound.
I also really like how this book writes the words in both uppercase and lower case so children can see the differences.
Eating the Alphabet: Fruits Vegetables from A to Z is a book that takes children through the alphabet using a variety of fruits or vegetables.
This book is short and colorful to hold the engagement of children with a variety of attention spans.
The book features a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, many that a child will probably be familiar with, such as blueberries, onions, and watermelon, and many that your child has likely never heard of, such as endives, ugli melon, and xigua.
Eating the Alphabet is a fun book to use to engage children in both nutrition and cultural diversity.
The beautiful vibrant water color pictures of fruits and vegetable on the cover and throughout this board book, are perfect for preschoolers.
The representation of the alphabet with both lower and upper case letters is a sound pre-reading basic.
The name of each food, is printed first in upper case letters and then in lower case letters--such a good practice.
EATING THE ALPHABET offers many extensions--naming foods, naming colors, counting fruits/vegetables, pointing under the words and reading the words, tasting new foods.
But more importantly, the book's pictures are vibrant yet soothing and sure to engage babies and preschoolers.
The book is very simple; it showcases the alphabet along with fruits that begins with that letter.
For every letter of the alphabet there is a picture of two to three fruits that begin with that letter.
Along with the picture of the fruits and vegetables their names are both lowercase and capitalized throughout the book.4.
This book is great for children in preschool up until about kindergarten5.
The would be pictures of the fruits and the children can place the fruit with its appropriate letter This can be used to teach children about nutrition and health.
This book teach alphabet through fruits and vegetable, it made me interested in the book.
The book starts with the sentence ‘Start eating your way through this alphabet book’.
This sentence caught me like going on the trip to fruit world.
At the end of the book, it contains a glossary which provides interesting facts about each food.
Students who read this book can practice alphabet, learn new fruits, learn interesting facts about each food.
Knowing alphabet and food is essential to live in real life.
Students can use the knowledge got from this book in life, when they speak and write.
