https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2798345-brief-gaudy-hour
Another highlight is Barnes not embarking on the “As you know, Bob”- method of explaining historical figures and events which is so common in HF novels; making “Brief Gaudy Hour” great for both novice and expert readers on the topic.Barnes does takes historical liberties in the novel (with the relationship between Anne and Henry Percy, with Anne’s governess being the one to push her into the King’s bed, and with the existence of a stepmother, etc); and also displays dated errors in the historical timeline of events.
I did enjoy this book, although I found myself analyzing it from as being historical fiction first publish over 50 years ago.
A lot of Tudor historical fiction books will give you more dates; Barnes' gives you seasons...
She also doesn't spend huge amounts of time on certain periods so that at times it seems that Anne has just consented to be Henry's mistress and then she is at court plotting Wosley's downfall.
I believe I enjoyed Barnes' portrayals of some of the supporting characters the most - especially George Boleyn, Henry Percy and Thomas Boleyn.
I'm personally of the opinion that Anne was the younger sister based on all the non fiction I've read but it doesn't greatly bother me.Anne's love life is the cental theme to the book and she tries to distance herself from the love that Thomas Wyatt has for her, knowing that he would love and cherish her but also knowing that she would never love him that way.
I was interested by the author's twist that Anne and Henry did consumate the relationship to make the betrothal stand in law but as she is about to confess it to her father to get his support, the bombshell is dropped that the King wants Anne and she wisely says nothing for fear of Henry Percy's life.Anne in this book is a very colourful character.
After finishing this novel I can see why, this easily outshines a lot of contemporary offerings.You might be surprised that a lot of novels on Anne Boleyn are written from another characters point of view, from ladies-in-waiting to fools, to other historical figures.
Barnes seems to have flouted these conventions.Instead we get a refreshingly human portrayal of one of the most enigmatic women in Tudor History, following Anne from her childhood at Hever right up until her execution.On the historical accuracy side, the actual timeline of events is a bit muddled, and we skip about six years.
The book starts with young Anne who is called to court by her father, telling her that she is to attend the King’s sister to France.
But she’s also gotten the King’s attention.I quite liked this older book about Anne Boleyn.
I actually liked to see the relationship between Anne and Jocunda so it didn’t bother me that much.
Later in the book was a great a scene where both are older and meeting again after long time, and both are thinking how the other has changed.I’ve read one of the author’s book before but I liked this one much more.
With sensitivity and insight, Margaret Campbell Barnes brings to light Anne Boleyn’s humanity and courage in the face of her adversaries.
(So if you have been a victim of any of the inaccurate trash that has been flooding the book market and large and small screens this season, be sure to check this one out to get the real story!) This also marks my debut as a published writer.
Margaret Campbell Barnes has been my favorite author since I first read My Lady of Cleves (due out later this year) in the 9th grade, and it has been my dream to see her work back in print.
One of the better novels I have read about Anne Boleyn.It seemed the author portrayed her with a good deal of realism and kept many of the qualities that we know about her.I liked how it was told from Anne's viewpoint and that her relationship with Henry Percy was included.I also thought it was nicely written.However,it was a bit outdated and some parts of the story just didn't work for me.I think it might be a good book to start out learning about Anne's story as it definitely leaves you with the feeling of wanting to read more about her.
Anne lived during a time in which women had very little control over their own lives, so she knew she would have to be very clever and even ruhtless to avoid becoming a total pawn.
In the end, despite her beauty, clever mind, and position as Queen of England, she found that her own ambition and need for revenge was no match for that of King Henry's court or the king himself.
Overall, I think the author did a very nice job of showing Anne within the context of her time and illustrated her character well - making her neither saint nor sinner - but real.
Yeah, I've read many, I've enjoyed most mainly because I'm always curious to how an author will twist Anne's tale; will they show her in a positive light or portray her as the vindictive creature who fooled Henry VIII.
This book is definitely the best novels on Anne's life and probably just as genius as The Other Boleyn Girl.
It lends an almost authentic feel to the book, like it was written during Anne's lifetime.
If you're going to read a novel based on Anne's life, this world definitely be the go-to one in my opinion for it paints her extremely well without taking away her negatives.
Everyone that knows me relatively well knows that I'll read nearly anything involving the Tudor family.
(So long as it's not one of those ridiculous bodice-ripper novels) This means that I've done my research and have a pretty good idea of what's gone on and what not.
At least more so than the average person on the street.
(What, you mean the average person can't even NAME all of Henry's wives, let alone have a favorite one?
I might even read more of the author's works at some point.
I liked this version of Anne better than many of the others I've come across.
In this version, Anne recognizes her ambition and what it is doing to her but can't figure out a way to stop it and does admit to herself that she loves the power she is gaining.
This is the way I believe Anne was - a good girl who was kept from the one she loved because of a king that couldn't take no for an answer and got swept away with power and ambition.
I read this book for the first time 25 years ago, I found it on my mothers bookshelves. It was one of the first historical novels I read and it helped create my love for historial fiction in general and books about the Tudor family specificly. The quality of this book lies in the fact that it pictures Anne Boleyn as a young girl and is not so negative about her as many other historic novels. Mrs Campbell Barnes managed to write a fascinating story, that I very much enjoyed reading again after all this time.
Wow.. the version I have was published in 1949. I wonder if that will affect anything.UPDATE: I really enjoyed this book about Anne Boleyn. The only thing I was confused by was the appearance of Jocunda, Anne's stepmother. STEPMOM? It seemed to infer her own mother had died. I've never read that anywhere else. I wonder if that was a rumor that has since been dispelled or something.
Great retelling of the Anne Boleyn story. Not 100% accurate but never mind. I kinda like it when historical fiction writers make Anne out to be a bit of a seductress. Recommened for all fans of The Tudors. I just never seem to tire of reading about Anne Boleyn. I think she must be(for me anyways) the most interesting person history has to offer.
I read this book for our first book club discussion. The book is beautifully written, weaving fiction into a historical account of Ann Boleyn's relationship with Henry VIII. I loved the ending.
This is a great read and based on real history not some made up Hollywood tale!
Wonderful story about Anne Boleyn. First time I heard the complete story besides knowing she was beheaded.
But then I guess those are things that must be attributed to the age of the book itself.I think the pace of the book is also way too quick at times, especially during Henry's courtship where you feel that no more than a year must have passed between Anne's acceptance of his affections and their marriage.
My last negative point would be that, before reading this book I read a few reviews saying how for once Anne wasn't described as completely shrewd and overly ambitious.
I guess it is a good read as a fictional work, but for me on a historical point of view it was too full of inaccuracies.
This book was first published in 1949 and it’s the first “older” work that I read about the life of Anne Boleyn. At the beginning I struggled with the book, but once I read the first hundred pages I was drawn into the story. Then again, books about Anne (one of my favourite woman in history) always tend to do that. Although this book is written a long time ago (even another century  ) it is more accurate than most of the modern books that feature the Tudor Dynasty. Barnes tells the story from An
This book was first published in 1949 and it’s the first “older” work that I read about the life of Anne Boleyn.
Then again, books about Anne (one of my favourite woman in history) always tend to do that.
And the author gives us a pretty accurate picture of that woman.
She shows us how Anne grew to became the woman who went into history as the second wife of Henry.
(The author spends a lot of time writing about her youth at Hever.) Other parts are really quick, the courting of Henry leading up their marriages took about 6 years in real life.
"Brief Gaudy Hour" is an earlier Tudor fiction piece, and what you first need to bear in mind while reading this is that some of the language is going to be dramatically different from what you're used to.
If you've been looking for a book of Anne Boleyn that is as much history as it is love story, then "Brief Gaudy Hour" is the book for you.Another impressive facet of this book is its inclusive coverage of the trials of Anne and particularly her brother George.
"Brief Gaudy Hour" has a lot going for it, but its outdated language and fact (Anne Boleyn has a sixth finger) make it less likable.
Yes, history marches on, and we do know more about Tudor times than we did in 1948, but even taking that into account the author plays far too lightly with the facts.To give a few examples:* This Anne is said to have been born in 1503.
I guess it was easier to manipulate the facts to fit a preconceived notion of how life is supposed to happen than to remodel that preconceived notion to the historical record as it was then known.What's good about the book?
Anne's internal monologue, for one, and the relationship between her and Henry.
Far too many novelists discount the seven-year wait Henry and Anne endured and how that must have affected their relationship.
The beauty and charms of Anne Boleyn bewitched the most powerful man in the world, King Henry VIII, but her resourcefulness and cleverness were not enough to stop the malice of her enemies.
The story also portrays a strong and willfull woman who will stop at nothing to get what she wants.
I displays a believable account of not only Anne Boleyn, but her sister Mary and of course Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII"s wife of almost 20 years
Her romances gained for her several lovers, but the most famous of these was King Henry VIII.
Henry fell in love with Anne and, encouraged by Anne's family, he left his wife of almost 20 years, Catharine of Aragon, and his young daughter who would eventually the English queen Mary I "Bloody Mary".
Like many young women in her situation who find themselves married to considerably older, influential husbands, Anne was unhappy.
However, if you are into romance novels and you have an interest in Anne Boleyn and Henry VIII, this novel may tickle your fancy.
I am an Anne Boleyn fanatic, and I relish in any book I can find about her, fiction or non.
I was very pleased with this book and thought it accurately depicted the life of histories most remarkable woman.Anne Boleyn comes to life in this volume and the author uses a lot of the queen's real documented words to make the story more real than any fiction I've read in the past.
Also compared to books from others, Miss Barnes presents Anne in a better light since she starts the novel in her younger years, before she became King Henry's obsession.
This classic historical novel is about Anne Boleyn.
Barnes has an interesting view of Anne Boleyn, taking a kind of middle way between romantic martyr and ambitious schemer.
In this book, Anne's personal motivation for her rise to power is to gain a combination of revenge and recompense for the loss of her true love, Henry Percy, from whom she was parted by the ambitions of her family and the consequences of the king's desire for her.
However, Anne does find Henry VIII genuinely attractive and interesting, making her feelings towards him and the course of their relationship complicated.
I have no idea whether there is any truth to this version, but I thought it was a fascinating view of Anne Boleyn.
This is a decent enough Boleyn novel, telling the standard story of Anne's early days at court, the love affair with Harry Percy, her rise and her fall.
I particularly thought the way her relationship with her brother was portrayed, as well as the way Anne was able to subtly alienate King Henry against Cardinal Wolsey, was fine.That doesn't keep the book from the reading like a Harlequin romance at times.
In Percy's arms that night Anne lived the brief rich transport of her life.
Anne did not ask to be involved with Henry Tudor but was forced by her father and uncle so that they could enjoy their meteoric rise to power.Had Anne been allowed to marry Harry Percy who incidentally was the love of her life she probably would have lived a very happy life.Anne's power slips away the moment she sleeps with Henry and her power slips even further when she gives birth to her daughter, Elizabeth and even further when she is unable to give birth to a son.It is ironic that Elizabeth, Anne's daughter was the greatest monarch England has ever known far eclipsing her father.In the end Anne is abandoned by her family.
Her uncle condemns her and her father does not even have the gumption to attend the trial and stand up for his daughter.
The emotional coloring made it feel like precisely the version of the Anne Boleyn story that I'd *wanted* to read, though I couldn't have said exactly what I'd wanted before cracking the book.
For example, although Katherine of Aragon's death, Henry's jousting accident, and Anne Boleyn's miscarriage of a boy happened in January 1536, within weeks of each other, this book implies that Katherine's death happened months, even up to a year, before the other two.
For example, a pregnant Anne is said to be taking the "April air" in the gardens.
As well she as portrayed as having never loved Henry at all, when everything I've read says she loved him at least one time, even if she didn't start out loving him.
The time line was a bit iffy as well, we never got exact dates and very rarely got months or even what time of year it was, and she skipped a lot of time as well.
As well the Mary Boleyn story line did not sync up to actual events as they happened, the author had them happening a lot earlier then they actually did.
Margaret Campbell Barnes was a wonderful author.
She comes across as refreshingly modern-sounding in her writing and I loved that she never hinted at actual incest between George and Anne.
The author ended dramatically without making it seem overwhelmingly tragic and I enjoyed Anne's personality.
People draw too negatively on Anne Boleyn but Margaret Campbell Barnes is sensitive and sympathetic in her writing and challenges us to see everyone's side.
I loved her portrayal of my favorite Boleyn, George, and though I would have liked to have seen more scenes with him and peer more inside his marriage with Jane, his character was portrayed very well.
