https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37739.Blubber
I remember when I read it the first time that I really related to the main character, Jill.
I related to Jill because I remember thinking, "I may not be the most popular, but at least I am not unpopular." I felt bad for Linda but was relieved I wasn't her.
Jill does not stand up for Linda.
In fact when given the chance to eat lunch with the girls in her class she chooses a "safe" choice and Linda once again is alone.The one way this book would be worth reading is if it was used to open up a dialogue to explore teasing-bullying and standing up for others.
The genius of this book is not that it doesn't impart any moral, it does, but it does so subtly, without condescension. There's no comeuppance for the ringleading bully, no adult interference to save the tormented. Hell, the girl who is picked on isn't all that sympathetic. It's a dark little book, and the darkness works beautifully.
After reading this book, it is comforting to find Judy Blume's personal note about why she wrote it:"I wrote Blubber because bullying is often kept a secret by the kids who see it happening, and even by the person who's being bullied.
Being bullied feels so humiliating, it's such a terrible and frightening experience, that kids are often afraid to tell anyone, even their parents...I hope this story will help kids, parents and teachers to start working and talking together.
No more secrets.
If it happens to you, talk to the people you trust most.
Don't be a hater.How many other books have you seen shelved by different goodreads users as—* mean girls* teen faves* childrens* classics* middle grade and* postmodernism—all at the same time?
I didn't like the book...much.
Things happened here that were appalling, and yet the adults around had no interest and tended to turn a blind eye to the entire situation.I didn't like the swearing in the book, wondering why the author felt it was necessary to include the words for no good reason at all it seemed, other than to maybe appeal to the readers - to be more on their level?
The bullying of Jill never fully manifested.
I so wanted to see a change for her and it wasn't here.Why is this a classic when there are better books on bullying?
What is a 46 year old man doing reading literature directed for 12-year-old girls?
I could say that my girlfriend made me read it, but it was only a recommendation and I went along willingly.
In Blubber a middle school Nazi and her cadre of sheep persecute a marginally overweight girl (This book was written at a time prior to all children being fat.
This book confirms all my fears about children and makes me grateful that I have dodged the procreation bullet.
Apparently children are manipulated by a mob mentality.
When I think about how my love of reading started it was the Big 3 (for me)- Judy Blume, Beverly Cleary and Ann M Martin.I remember reading this one in school but not much about it.
I did like this perspective.Overall I gave this book 3 stars because the ending totally fell flat for me.
I wish it came about full circle and had a deep discussion between the main character and the one being bullied, but I realize now that in real life that rarely happens.
I shudder to think of what my girls will ensure once they're in school
I did a long in-depth review of this - on my site - http://cliqueypizza.wordpress.com/ entitled Judy Blume's Blubber - Ballad of a Bully - as you can see by the title , I wasn't too impressed by the supposed lesson every reader out there, believes we've been taught.
While Linda a.k.a Blubber is a most pathetic victim - never is she given one ounce of dignity, everything associated with her is tinged with black humor making the attack not only justified but her responsibility.
If you're going to read this, be aware of it's flaws and - try out 100 Dresses by Eleanor Estes whose bully and victims are better fleshed out without becoming didactic.
While I most certainly have NEVER found Blubber all that enjoyable as a personal reading experience (and really, as someone who did experience much nasty bullying at school, more than a trifle too close to home so to speak to be in any way comforting, cheering or uplifting) I have indeed always considered (both then and now) that Judy Blume has most definitely and painfully realistically captured not only bullying, but also that the tormenters can and do sometimes become the tormented (such as narrator Jill Brenner, who only and still rather mildly at best realises that her nasty attitude towards classmate Linda Fischer might be wrong when she herself somehow crosses arch class bully Wendy and finds the situation reversed, finds herself being viciously targeted by Wendy and her acolytes.
I absolutely despised this book!
I usually like this author, and have enjoyed quite a few of her books, but this really made me mad.
Usually when a book is about bullying there are at least one person who isn't a bad person right?
In this book, NOPE!
There was not a single like able person or teachable moment in this, and being geared towards kids I think this is an AWFUL book for kids to read because kids learn from their peers, right?
Ugh, awful.
Probably the worst, most disgusting book I have ever read.
This book was so sad!
But, "Blubber" also gave me a new insight on bullying.
But, "Blubber" let me know that not every bully has to have extremely hard times.
Like Jill, some people may just be influenced by a bossy "friend.""Blubber" was heartbreaking and heartwarming, but...
Tracy, the target of bullying from the girls at school was just left alone at the end of the book.
Like, nothing good happened to Tracy the whole book, and it's just sad.
The ending almost wants me to rate "Blubber" a 4-star.
SERIOUSLY?!Don't get the wrong idea about this book after that, though...
This book repulsed me in so many ways.
To have to watch (read) as an innocent child is torn to emotional shreds hurts my heart, even if she is a fictional character.
I can't honestly say I loved this book however, I think it's important that kids and adults be taught about bullying.
This book is a good conversation starter, but the ending left me angry.
I hope others will use this book as a teaching tool to show how words and certain actions can be harmful to others and have the power to destroy people's lives if wielded haphazardly.
The story starts out believably enough, with the overweight Linda giving an oral report about whales and Wendy, the smartest and most popular kid in the class, passing a note to Jill saying "Blubber is a good name for her." And just like that, the name sticks and Linda is Blubber from there on.
But in fiction, characters are supposed to change somehow, and the fact that neither Jill, nor Linda, nor Wendy changes makes the book feel like it was a completely wasted undertaking.
****4.0**** In fifth grade class, when Linda gives a report on Whales, she becomes target of bullying. Wendy, a girl who likes to control the class begins to call Linda with a cruel name "Blubber". The class follows her name-calling and so does our protagonist Jill. Jill doesn't have any particular grudge on anybody in the class, but just to be in the boat, she follows Wendy.The story follows Jill at her house with her family and at school. Different fun kids have at that age along with bullyin
In fifth grade class, when Linda gives a report on Whales, she becomes target of bullying.
Jill doesn't have any particular grudge on anybody in the class, but just to be in the boat, she follows Wendy.The story follows Jill at her house with her family and at school.
When Jill defends Linda in a situation, Jill becomes the next target and is bullied around in the class.
Though, Jill handles it in her way, the story left a deep impact on me seeing how kids can behave, for that age,if not guided and helped.“There are some people who just make you want to see how far you can go.”A great read.
I remembered loving this book when I was in 4th grade.
I have no idea why I loved it so much before.
I've never wanted to punch a 5th grader in the face like I did while reading this book.
Wendy, and her little minions, needed their butts whooped.
I wanted Linda to start beating Wendy with her lunch pail, like Mary Ingalls and all the girls did to the bully on Little House on the Prairie.When we finished reading the book tonight my daughter took it and threw it across the room.
I seriously wonder where Wendy is now.
So, the bullies weren't punished? Linda was humiliated several times, being called Blubber, and she didn't speak to her mother, to her teacher, or to the principal? And in the end, Linda goes on alone without friends? And the book's narrator that practiced bullying against Linda ended up happy? I can't believe in it! Maybe my English knowledge isn't good enough because English isn't my mother language and I didn't understand the book...
Kudos to Blume for not sugar coating the issue of bullying.
It was tough to read about poor Linda being victimized day after day but it was even worse that NONE of the adults showed any concern or tried to find out what was going.
The teacher turned a blind eye, the principal accepted anything the popular kids told him, the bus driver was oblivious to horrible treatment happening on his bus and the parents didn't seem to care about the well being of their children.
That, and the fact there is no accountability nor consequences for the perpetrators, sends a bit of a dangerous message to kids reading this book.
Jill never sees anything particularly wrong about her treatment of Linda until she crosses Wendy herself and finds the situation reversed.My memories of reading Blubber as a child are fairly vivid.
Prior to this re-reading, I also remembered little flashes of the story: the fact that Jill collects stamps, and that she dresses like a flenser for Halloween; the fact that the Brenners' housekeeper is too old to have children, and that the family attends a bar mitzvah together.As most girls do, I had my own issues with bullying around the time that I read this book.
This was one of my favourite books as a kid (from my favourite childhood author). I just finished reading it to my own kids. I don’t remember the bullying scenes being so horrendous as a a kid and I felt really uncomfortable reading them. They were necessary for the book, though, and helped put the message across. Judy wrote a short blurb at the end that says why she wrote the book and that really adds to it. It opened up such a great conversation with my kids about bullying and standing up for yourself and others.
I hated this book.
I kept getting more angry as the book went on.
All her "friends" (except Tracey) turn her back on her and begin bullying her instead of Linda.
Does Linda stand up for her cause she knows what its like to be bullied?
Jill takes the philosophy of how she reacts will determine how bad it is and its Linda's fault for not standing up for herself.
I understand Blume's intended message with this book.
Yes, many cases of bullying aren't resolved in a satisfactory manner and goes unnoticed by adults.
After pudgy Linda presents a classroom assignment on the whale, she is nicknamed “Blubber” by Wendy, the most popular girl at school, and so begins a daily ritual of abuse.
Over the next few weeks, most of the kids laugh at Linda, call her names, spit at her, and trip her.
Jill thinks that she’ll never be in Linda’s position, but she learns that popularity is fleeting and that her position in the classroom hierarchy only lasts as long as she is willing to go along with the crowd.
A short, quick read about bullying in middle grades. Depicts both sides and for me it was a really quick read! Honestly it didn't grip me, but I did enjoy it.
As I reached the climax I suddenly realized that what was happening in the book to the victims (Linda "Blubber" and later Jill) was happening to me all the time with my groups of friends from the time I started school!
(believe me, i didn't entirely either when i first read it at 9 either!)Also readers too young to understand feelings of others may copy the bad things about the negative characters (Wendy and Carolyn, the follower) like I did at times when I was young (I felt bad about it later and found myslef on the receiving end afterwards).
Maybe if I'd been younger? And hadn't been bullied?The main character was kind of a pretentious brat, and I hated her.
The name of some of the girls were Jill, Caroline, and Wendy.
In the book, the main character was Jill.
When they were in class, Jill, Caroline, and Wendy would tease about how fat Linda was, and how she got on a diet.
Throughout the story, the main character did run into some problems.
One problem was Jill saw that Wendy and Linda became friends in the end.
She was very upset because in the beginning, Caroline was friends with Wendy.
Also, she hated it when Caroline was upset that Wendy and Linda were new best friends now.
Judy Blume has a lesson to teach in 'Blubber,' which could be the kiss of death in a children's book.
Teaching a lesson often transmogrifies into an adult talking down.
While the bully--Wendy, one of the few characters here without much depth--gets a kind of comeuppance, Blume offers no pat solutions.
Jill, her protagonist, is just as guilty of nasty behavior as Wendy is.
Jill's clueless fifth-grade teacher, Mrs. Minnish, and her oblivious principal, offer no guidance, much less help for Linda, the chubby girl (thus the nickname, 'Blubber') who suffers through her classmates' torture.
Kids curse, follow the leader and can be downright cruel.
If anything, this book should be used as a catalyst for discussion among pre-teen to teenage girls about the devasting effects of bullying, being a follower, teasing, and going to far.This book is all about trying to fit in and finding out that doing whatever it takes to accomplish that is not always the wisest thing.
"Blubber" is about the bullying of a overweight girl.
The book describes the horrific and cruel things the kids in the class do to the overweight girl.
I hadn't read Blubber since I was in Elementary School, so my memories of the book were a little misleading for me.
Judy Blume captures the outright nastiness of little girls, and it just reminded me too much of ll the bullies I knew in school.
My heart went out to Linda, even when it was her turn to play the bully role, because I knew it wouldn't last for her but the main character really worked my nerves.
I think the biggest difference is reading it now as a mother to a little girl vs.
reading it as a popular little girl.
Listed with Paige and Harper in the car.
It was much more disturbing and much less funny than I remember it being when I was a kid.
I really appreciate now Blume's realistic depiction of such scarring situations, as well as how she managed to have her anti-hero struggle herself, while still not wrapping up the solution and tying it with a bow.
(In a modern day tale you would expect the girls to become friends in the end.) An interesting contrast to how my girls learn about bullying and bystanders today, and a great demonstration of how schools, teachers and administrators failed so many children for so many years.
I knew Blubber was a book about bullying, but for some reason I didn't realize it was told from the perspective of one of the bullies. And despite the fact that there is no real resolution at the end, I think there's a lesson in that for kids just as much as a book that ends neatly. Sometimes in life the bullies don't get their comeuppance, so what other lessons can we take away from reading a book like this if that's the case?
