https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272773.The_Rest_of_the_Robots
You know exactly what you are going to get from an Isaac Asimov science-fiction story : a locked room mystery.
The collection I, Robot is the best set of his robot stories this collection The Rest of the Robots are, as the title suggests, the also runs.
The book includes a story with a cold war like setting (Lets get together) and a Susan Colvin story on the Moon base (view spoiler)[ or a moon base, perhaps I ought not be narrow minded about the future moon in Asimov's imagination (hide spoiler)] amongst others.
I frankly don't have the capability to review this book or any of Asimov's book any further. I am tired of finding newer adjectives that convey my superlative admiration for the thoughts and works of Asimov. I was carrying on the task of typing out appreciative sentences regarding the plot, characters and ideas so far. No more - i give up. There are no words to express Asimov's ingenuity or parallels for comparison - Isaac Asimov is simply 'THE BEST'.
Robots do it allthey mine, they spy, they proofread,they flirt with your wife.
Bu sefer Asimov'un gençken kaleme aldığı 8 robot öyküsünü görüyoruz.  Öyküler; Ben, Robot'a kıyasla sönük olsalar da okuması keyifliydi. Asimov'un öykü öncesi, öyküsünü tanıtması, yazarken neler düşündüğünü söylemesi de farklı bir tat katmış. Özellikle Faustvari hikâyeler hakkındaki düşüncesi benim için en ilgi çekici kısımdı. Ayrıca bu kitapda da görüyoruz ki Susan Calvin karakterini okuyucuların sevdiği kadar kendisi de sevmiş. Ben de Calvin için şunu söylüyorum; Calvin olsun da ne olursa okurum.

Another collection of short stories, listed below along with my rating:- Robot AL-76 Goes Astray - 2*- Victory Unintentional - 5* (superbe story, my favorite in this collection)- First Law - 3.5* (very short)- Let's Get Together - 4.5*- Satisfaction Guaranteed - 4.5*- Risk - 3.5* (although Susan Calvin was, as usual, exquisite)- Lenny - 4*- Galley Slave - 4.5*
The book reads sort of like an interview where the author talks about his work, and inspiration for it, only instead of mere snippets we get the entire story.
Actually, I'm not even sure I could pinpoint something that wouldn't seem "contemporary".The book starts out with a little back story on Mary Shelley and her novel Frankenstein, whose main idea is then skillfully inserted into Asimov's short stories about robots.
Reading about Dr. Calvin's work is just basic algorithm analysis, which is right up my (professional) alley.I loved all these stories, but my absolute favorite must've been the one about the woman asked to beta test a butler robot, which was slated for mass-production.
Știi că un scriitor e magistral când toată ziua la serviciu te gândești la poveștile lui și abia aștepți să ajungi acasă pentru a citi mai multe și mai multe.
Yummy robot stories by a grand master; a good warm-up to the Foundation series.
Leuk tussendoortje. SF die ondertussen enorm gedateerd is (de meeste verhalen werden in de jaren 1950 geschreven): roken is nog schering en inslag, computers worden nog met ponskaarten geprogrammeerd, vrouwen komen nauwelijks aan bod (behalve dr. Susan Calvin, die als een koel beredeneerde wetenschapper wordt afgeschilderd) en robots zijn vandaag de dag ondertussen overal in alle vormen (behalve misschien de humanoïde versies) ingeburgerd.Maar het leest wel vlot, de taal is nog niet oubollig en de verhalen zijn goed gestructureerd opgebouwd waardoor ik wel geïnteresseerd bleef tot het einde.
Asimov è stato un grande scrittore. Eccellenti risultati si riscontrano sia nei romanzi che nei racconti. Io però prediligo questi ultimi, forse la forma breve gli era più congegnale. E in questo libro (per quanto sia più consigliabile la raccolta "Tutti i miei robot", che oltre a questi include l'intero ciclo dei Robot ad un prezzo simile)se ne hanno diverse prove. In alcuni ("Vittoria involontaria", "Soddisfazione garantita", e sono tra i miei preferiti) sfodera anche una efficace ironia . Come non concedere 4 stellette?
First published in Britain in 1963, this collection contains some of the most classic robot stories ever written in science fiction and represents, if you like, the grand-daddy of robot lore from which all other robot stories were begat.Divided into three parts, The Coming of Robots, The Laws of Robotics, and Susan Calvin, the collection takes the reader from the very beginnings of man versus robot to the topic of robot versus universe.
Utterly confused as to his purpose on Earth, AL-76 makes the acquaintance of Randolph Payne, a man who likes to live in his shed rather than spend time with his nagging wife.
Issac Asimov is a master of the art of narration. Not even one story in the book is just-ok... In fact all the stories are unique and catchy
Proprio la possibilità di rendere queste macchine simili (se non identiche) all'uomo, permette all'autore di mettere a nudo il lato debole del "complesso di Frankenstein": i robots (leggi la scienza) di per se non sono né terrificanti né incomprensibili ma sono semplicemente macchine, macchine nelle quali tendiamo a "proiettare" le nostre paure.Come ad esempio nei racconti "Rischio" ed "Il correttore di bozze" nei quali i protagonisti cercano, artatamente e non, di dimostrare il nolo delle macchine dalle quali si sentono minacciati.Proiezioni non solo di paure ma anche di desideri, come nel racconto "Soddisfazione garantita", nella quale la protagonista si innamora del suo androide domestico che riesce a cambiarle la vita.E Asimov, da bravo scienziato, con metodo disseziona queste paure e questi desideri smontandoli e ricomponendoli per quello che sono.
We don't have positronic brains just yet, but if and when we do develop Asimov-style robots, they are not going to be terrifying except to a Luddite few, and even then the repugnance is more likely to be based in hatred and an abstract Fear for Humanity than in animal fear.Some of the dated-ness is more humourous, of course.
The final story in the book, "Galley Slave" was written in 1957 while the author was in the midst of proof-reading a biochemistry textbook.
Non si può cercare di recensire questo libro di Asimov, senza enunciare ciò che sta alla base di queste storie e cioè le ormai universalmente note "Tre leggi della robotica" alle quali obbediscono tutti i robot che compaiono nei suoi racconti (e in molti racconti di altri autori):1.
Un robot deve proteggere la propria esistenza, purché questa autodifesa non contrasti con la Prima o con la Seconda Legge.In questa raccolta di racconti (e nel primo “Io, Robot”) Asimov rappresenta una galleria di straordinari esseri meccanici, contornati da altrettanto vividi caratteri umani.
It's a kind of companion volume to 'I, Robot', a collection of outtakes as it were.
Robot stories that, for one reason or another, weren't included in the aforementioned collection.There's a nice introduction to the book and to each individual story by the author which I rather enjoyed, providing you with a small insight to the author and a background to the stories.
Such themes permeate the stories in this collection.I think there are collections that put all his robot stories together but, one way or another, they are all well worth a read.
Not me, fur sure!After reading the wonderful 'I, Robot', my expectations had been raised sky high, so it is rather painful to accept that 'The rest of the robots' is nowhere near its predecessor, in fact is a real disappointment with only the 'Susan Calvin' stories showing some promise.
I am pretty sure that if this had been my first book in the Robots series, I would have enjoyed it much more.
I would suggest anyone willing to start Robots series, to begin with this one only, and then move onto 'I, Robots' and the rest.
Anyway, hope that the 3rd installment of the Robots series will live up to the expectations.
I have read virtually every robot story written by Asimov.
I started when I was on my teens; and only stopped when I was done with them all.
When he died in 1992; I was one of the thousands of unknown mourners that felt as if we had lost a golden opportunity in our lives: I would never ever see him in person.
That was my dream when I was a child: that some day I would see Asimov in person.
I love these chats because they are entertaining and happen on demand.
In short; I love him and will always do.
The Rest of the Robots (Robot #0.2) (Foundation Universe #2)  United States Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation had a problem. The problem was people. This book is composed by eight short stories that serve as an introduction to the robots in the Foundation series. Not esencial to understand the series, but it is on the suggested list, so I wanted to read it anyway. My favorites: * Victory Unintentional* First Law* Satisfaction Guaranteed
Haven’t read Asimov for years.
He has such great ideas, but he is so of his time.
I just can't get over the general lack of characterisation and also of the lack of female characters that actually have any volition and agency over their own lives.
Except for Susan Calvin of course, but she's more robot than human anyway!It shows how far modern science fiction has come in the last 70 years.
Asimov was one of the original greats, but the fact that his world is apparently 95% populated by middle-aged, middle class white men means that his stories are quite hard to read now.
Excellent read, and great dialogue for the time it was printed. I really liked Satisfaction Guaranteed and Victory Unintentional. Really loved the people of Jupiter and how they watched the invincibility of the robots and thought they were screwed if they tried to invade earth, HA HA HA HA. I thought Tony was hot, and I want a robot to love me and decorate my house. ^^
Questa seconda raccolta di racconti sui robot di Asimov è meglio della prima, i racconti sono più profondi e meno banali. L'ho riletta volentieri.
Comme son nom l'indique, The Rest of the Robots nous présente tout un panel de robot qui ne faisait pas partie de  I, Robot .Robot AL-76 Goes Astray met en scène, de façon hilarante, un robot prévu pour aplanir les reliefs lunaires qui se retrouve perdu sur Terre et cherche à accomplir sa mission ; Victory Unintentional nous fait suivre trois robots envoyés par la colonie humaine de Ganymède pour négocier avec les extraterrestres de Jupiter, et compte tenu du complexe de supériorité de ces derni

Payne convinces AL-76 that his work assignment has changed and keeps him occupied at the shack—until he realizes the robot's true purpose..."Victory Unintentional" - Three robots are sent to the surface of Jupiter as emissaries from the human colony on Ganymede.
Further, it is revealed that certain American scientists who spent time on the "other side" might have been replaced by automatons and if brought together in the same place at the same time, would detonate a devastating bomb..."Risk" - Orbiting an asteroid known as HyperBase, a test ship called Parsec fails to launch into hyperspace as planned.
Sure, we were around for SkyNet, for HAL-9000, we were around for machines replacing McDonald's workers demanding higher minimum wage, we had our share of Frankenstein's monsters, both real and imaginary, we had our Spock's and Data's, we dreamed of stars (until we learned that Earth is really flat), and yet we never took Asimov's robots to TV screen.
As long as you're interested in books (and that in itself is not a common thing anymore) you should find no trouble getting used to a bit of dated language, and a bit of dated narration.
This book is a nice collection of 8 short stories from Asimov's robot series.
Most of the stories conform to the three laws of robotics of which 'Galley Slave' shows a deep insight on how those laws may be interpreted by the robot's positronic brain.
'Satisfaction Guaranteed' shows how an average human woman, oblivious to the way robots work, is affected psychologically after interacting with a humanoid robot.
But my favorite ones in this collection would be 'Let's get together' which is a bit of a thriller and has some nice twists and turns at the end and 'Victory Unintentional' which has a premise unlike the others (i.e. no humans involved, atleast directly).
The Rest of the Robots is the third timeless, amazing and amusing volume of Isaac Asimov's robot stories, offering golden insights into robot thought processes.
Is it Tonyâe(tm)s fault that the lady of the house where heâe(tm)s field tested falls in love with him?
- ROBOT AL was intended for shipment to a mining outfit on the moon.
Instead, heâe(tm)s loose in the mountains of Virginiaâe¦building from scraps of junk his very own, very dangerous disintegrator.
- ROBOT LENNY answers workaday questions in babytalk.
So why is Dr Susan Calvin, the worldâe(tm)s top robopsychologist, fascinated by this messed up specimen of an industrial robot?
Another set of short stories charting the development of robots through the near future.
They don't exactly, I think, follow in chronological order, but make appropriate sense ending in a way with space travel becoming practical.The characters are well formed and detailed and this includes the robots, which form a special component of these stories and have been given the appropriate detail that they deserve as major characters.
These short stories are punchy and enjoyable of a kind that I found difficult to put down - they may have been written many years ago, but old they are not, classic they are.
Isaac Asimov proves himself once again to be the undisputed master of the short story.His stories are entertaining and often even lighthearted, but at the center of them is always a decades-ahead-of-his-time insight into the impact of artificial intelligence (in his stories, taking the form of robots) on modern life. Whether functioning as a dire warning or an appeal towards open-mindedness, one thing is for certain - they'll always make you think.
