https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37199.The_Plague_and_I
I found this book while trawling through a charity shop.
Turns out it is one of my favorite books of all time, all space.
This is the memoir of a year she spent laid up in a Tuberculosis sanitarium outside of Seattle Washington, sometime in the 1940s.
After reading this I went out and found all her other books for adults.
Anybody Can Do Anything is a memoir about her sisters and her mother surviving the Depression by taking any job at all and simply claiming they could do it.
RIP, Betty -- you were one hilarious woman!
Readers, just like MacDonald herself, will find it amusing and ironic that in growing up, her father followed whatever health trends of the moment to keep his kids healthy including ten glasses of water a day, cold water baths, and brisk walks outside, even in sub-zero temperatures.
MacDonald described the first three months at The Pines saying patients "existed as embryos carefully fed and cared for by the mother hospital.
Alive but not living."Life at The Pines was nearly military in its operation, and I had to remind myself that patients were there voluntarily and could leave at any time.
I read Betty MacDonald's "The Egg and I" many years ago and still recall with delight her hilarious adventures while chicken farming on the Olympic Peninsula in the 30's.
I knew lots of bedrest was involved but had no idea that patients in Seattle lived year round in rooms with the windows wide open 24/7 with no heat and the rain blowing in, keeping their bedclothes in perpetual dampness.
I never imagined that a book about tuberculosis treatment could be both humorous and interesting but Betty MacDonald is gifted with the wit and compassion to make it so.
Let's be honest: Betty MacDonald's chronicle of a year spent in a sanatorium recuperating from tuberculosis in the days before antibiotics sounds like an unlikely candidate for a humorous memoir.
MacDonald has a genuine gift of interjecting a highly personal and relatable touch into the quite literally antiseptic environment of 'The Pines'—in reality, the former Firlands Sanitarium of Shoreline, Washington—and making the story of her illness and recovery as funny, if not funnier, than her other three books for adults.
MacDonald's sanatorium friend, Kimi, wrote under her real name of Monica Sone a memoir (Nisei Daughter) of growing up torn between American culture and her Japanese-American upbringing, and of her family's internment during the subsequent war.
At the age of thirty, the author was diagnosed with TB, then a common illness, whose only cure was bed rest in a dedicated sanatorium.
This is Betty's hilarious account of the time she spent under the strict regime and rest cure at The Pines, a san for low income patients in America's North West in the 1940s/50s.I found this book in a charity shop and just had to have it, having some dim memories of having read it over thirty years ago.
I' ve been in bed with flu for a week or so, and this book made me laugh out loud.
However, the look into life in a sanatorium in the 1930s, when there was no known cure for tb and doctors barely even understood what it was, is certainly an interesting slice of life.Also: I read my uni library version of this book, which was personally inscribed by Betty herself, to "Bernice, who has been through this in all its phases -- Love, Betty McDonald" The two doctors who the book is dedicated to have also signed the book.
She's worried about the future for her two girls and, also, how she's going to pay to go to a sanitorium.Luckily, depending on how you look at it, her brother-in-law ,finds a place she can go to for free because she is a mother.The staff at The Pines are unbendingly stiff and unfriendly and the treatments seem to leave a lot to be desired, including 24 hour bed rest, no talking, no laughing, a superfluity of fresh air with windows open in the freezing winters and cold hot water bottles disoensed with grim smiles from the staff.Betty survived this horrendous regime by finding humour in every situation and befriending a Japanese girl with an amazingly dry wit to match Betty's.If I could find a copy of The Egg and I, I'd buy it without hesitation.And her other books as well.
Today's treatment is so much different from MacDonald's pre-antibiotic era rest-cure.
Her characterization of other patients and the staff are perfect.Because her children, mother, and sisters did not have TB, and because the children were well cared for by the rest of the family, MacDonald could focus on her own health and cure.
Contrast this with another book I read part of, "Living in the Shadow of Death," emphasizing that in most of the 19th century there were no facilities for chronic disease, hence infected women stayed home, tried to keep their lives together, probably infected other people---especially their children---and really never got well.
We live in a much different world now!
This book takes us back to the times of the Great Depression and what was going on in the author's world.
This book however is not depressing.
Martin recently redid one of the Miss Piggle Wiggle books and I really enjoyed that.
The books were written by Betty McDonald, author of the first book and so many more.This is another book narrated by the talented Heather Henderson.
I feel like she does a good job of capturing the elements of the story and bringing them to life.Thank you for the opportunity to review this book.
I first came upon Betty MacDonald when a friend gave me 'The Egg and I'; however it wasn't until I was given 'The Plague and I' that I realised how much I loved her work, even though her work is now many decades old.
Whoever would have thought an account of tuberculosis and the cruelty of its 'cure' could be so funny to read?
There's a sparkle to Betty MacDonald's writing (and a subversiveness to its content and contrasts) that should appeal to anyone regardless of era.
"At Bed-rest, the librarian took orders for books one week and the next wheeled in a cart of books and told you that yours was not among them."While I would never wish tb on Betty MacDonald, I'm very happy that she chose to chronicle her experiences in her sanatorium.
My only complaint is that the book is so appealing that I inhaled it all too fast and didn't stop to savor it.
Clearly I need to learn some Discipline from Granite Eyes and Gravy Face.
I still haven't read Anybody Can Do Anything.
It's nice to know that it's out there waiting for me.
One of my happiest used book finds ever was a copy of this great book.
I'd read it as a teenager, and remembered it as completely, totally, laugh out loud until you cry funny, and happily, it was just as funny on re-reading.
You would not think a book about a TB ward would be that funny, but it is.
Betty MacDonald writes about unusual characters in a way I don't think I've ever seen done better, and all her time in the ward let her get to know some very unique people.
Absolutely worth a read, or a re-read, or more!
It doesn't seem like a book of this type would be so entertaining and funny, but I laughed throughout the book. Betty Macdonald, who also authored the Mrs. PiggleWiggle books tells of the 8 1/2 months she spent in a sanitarium recovering from TB. Her sense of humor is incredible in the face of such a serious disease. It was also interesting to get a glimpse of how TB was treated in those days.
In addition to being fun due to MacDonalds excellent writing, this book also is a wonderful explanation of what treatment for tuberculosis was like before the advent of effective medications. Set in a sanitorium in Seattle in the 1930's, the story fouses in part on MacDonald's roommates. One of my favorite quotes - "From my stay at The Pines I learned that a stiff test for friendship is: 'Would she be pleasant to have t.b. with?'"
It's hard to imagine a book about TB being funny. But Betty Bard McDonald's dead-on-the-money descriptions of her fellow patients and staff and her keen eye for the absurdities of the sanitorium's bureaucracy were hilarious. One of my favorites that I re-read every year or so.
I found this on our bookshelves, left by my husband's grandmother when she was alive. Such a brilliant, hilarious book. I never knew tuberculosis could be funny, but Betty MacDonald did it. And it's one of those books full of little quotes and catch phrases that come back to you over time.
The novel follows the year the author had tuberculosis. She spent the year in a sanatorium and relates her adventures during her time there. It was fascinating and often comical to read.

I enjoyed the book, but found the first few chapters to be the most captivating and humorous, while the sanitarium just dries up most of the humor, for me anyway. Still, it's a solid read, and MacDonald has a great sense of humor. The book also got me researching sanitariums, so i ended up watching a bunch of retro films on youtube. yay for antibiotics!
One of these poor souls to enter a sanatorium with tuberculosis was Betty MacDonald.
What probably had been a turbulent and frightening time in her life, Ms. MacDonald relayed the events and her time at the “Pines” sanatorium with humorous and witty dialogue.
I am a big fan of both Betty MacDonald and Heather Henderson - knowing that without a doubt that I am guaranteed a great read when it comes to this combination of author and narrator.Story – 4 starsPerformance – 5 starsOverall – 4.5 starsI received this audiobook as part of my participation in a blog tour with Audiobookworm Promotions.
I know, I’m saying that about a woman’s story of a year away from her life (kids, family, work, fun, friends, etc.), and I may have to spend a little time in purgatory for having laughed so much at such a serious subject.
Of course, since she was there are charity, the staff often reminded her that if she didn’t adhere to the strict rules (many of which made little to no sense), she would be asked to leave, still sick.While there is humor throughout this book, I was also fascinated by life in a sanitorium in the 1930s.
Betty MacDonald recalls the 9 months she spent in a sanatorium in the late 1930s to cure her tuberculosis.
Some aspects of the treatment seem positively medieval, but fortunately it worked for Betty, and it is to her credit as a writer than she can recount 3 months of total bedrest (she wasn't even allowed to read) and make it entertaining.
This line about her sister did make me laugh out loud: "Being married to a doctor, Mary felt she knew more about medicine than the American Medical Association." Yes, I know some people like this!!Also, her tale of taking her first real bath after six months in the hospital really is comic genius.
Betty MacDonald has a terrific sense of humor, especially considering the subject matter: her time spent in a tuberculosis sanatorium in the late 1930s in the Pacific Northwest.
Unlike me in so many ways, Betty shows herself in this memoir to be outgoing, practically fearless, brash, lively, needing plenty of people around at (almost) all times, and incredibly funny in the face of uncertain and sometimes desperate circumstances.
I also love how she constantly sought to learn about and somehow appreciate (or, if necessary, disparage) the great variety of people around her during this challenging time in her life.
Ever wonder what it is like to live in a TB sanatorium in the 1940's?
Growing up in Livermore, there was one up the road that was shuttered.
It always held intrigue.
Kids would break in and report that "there is an iron lung in the basement".
Not sure if there was, but it always made me shudder to think of it.
This book makes you shudder.
Many times.
Betty MacDonald, however, describes the monotony, the odd treatments and the friendships of The Pines in Washington state to make it very worthwhile reading.
The book is hard to find.
This book is NOT for everyone.
Betty MacDonald memoir continued!
(semi-autobiographical, I guess)I am really liking this one!
Betty went to an institution - The Pines - for tuberculosis in the 30's.
It reminds me of The Bell Jar and/or Girl Interrupted - minus the electro-shock therapy - fascinating to see the daily happenings in these institutions that people would spend years in.
I can't believe people did this.
Kimi was my favorite roomate - she always had something "wise" to say.
Started out with the library copy then I found a copy of this from the 40's at the thrift store - it will look nice on my shelf :) On to the next!

Pulled this off the shelves at my in-law's lakehouse and found it fascinating. I found out later that I had two great-aunts who actually did spend time at a tuberculosis clinic. Later, I read Magic Mountain and can say with fair certainty that if I ever had the need for a tuberculosis clinic, I'd rather go to one in the Alps.
I just loved this book, bleak though the subject matter might appear at first glance. I found the descriptions of treatment for tuberculosis absolutely fascinating, and Betty Macdonald's humor made it extremely readable.
I am clearly obsessed with Betty MacDonald. Her books are laugh out loud funny on almost every page. She is underappreciated and terrifically witty. I hope republication of her titles will garner new fans.
One woman's account of a year spent in a tuberculosis sanitorium. Doesn't sound like a "cuddle up" sort of book, but the author is such an engaging writer. I would use a year in bed!!
