https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30273.The_Lunatic_Cafe
Our Anita Blake marathon continues with the fourth installment in the series, and I do have to agree with everything Jessica is saying in her review.There is absolutely no character development unless you count relationship drama as such.
Jean Claude swoons most of us but he is just an empty shell for a vampire that has "lived" hundreds of years.Only thing that develops in this series is Anita's Nike's, guns, sweaters and coats.
You can get a lot of info out of those albeit told with a same formula, it is not much either.
Yes, there is a lot of action that takes everything meaningful away.
A dumb girl in love with both a vampire and a werewolf? This sounds slightly familiar...But, hey, this book was written first so I have a pretty good idea on who might have had the original idea.... (I'm smart like that.)I liked this book slightly better than the last one. Anita is still pretty annoying, but I can still appreciate a few things about her. I crossed my arms on my stomach. A psychologist would have said I was closed off, uncommunicative. Fuck them. See, I like that!In this book, we
This sounds slightly familiar...But, hey, this book was written first so I have a pretty good idea on who might have had the original idea....
See, I like that!In this book, we have Anita trying to solve a case in which several shapeshifters have gone missing.
And, Richard definitely showed himself to be an animal in this book.
Any bloodthirsty killer would love to follow her around and kill all of the people who are trying to kill her.
It's a win-win.I hope Edward will keep showing up in the next books, but I have a feeling that there might be a point where he gets hired to kill Anita.
We have the basic Twilight scenario: human woman is simultaneously in love with a vampire and a werewolf, but for bizarre reasons can't actually have sex with either of them.
And instead of the bizarre Twilight plot we're served the usual noir routine, with Anita getting threatened, beaten up and shot at, as she wise-cracks her way from one perilous situation to another, kills the occasional supernatural creature or human, and, needless to say, solves the case.
The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Hamilton tries to introduce a love triangle.
Anita was an even bigger disappointment, relationship wise.
We learn that she is such a badass who doesn’t date because of a bad relationship.
ONE bad relationship.
I also found it bizarre that Anita, Jean-Claude & Richard seem to think that you can love someone (romantically) without actually liking them.
At one point, Anita says of Richard that she doesn’t just love him, she actually likes him, too.
And Jean-Claude...he just reeks of a white trash, wanna-be goth who doesn't dress as if he is very interested in attracting women.
Other than she refuses to have premarital sex because of her last relationship, and this woman SERIOUSLY needs to get laid.NOTE 1: I know that in a few books I am going to eat those words.NOTE 2: I have NO PROBLEMS with a person wanting to wait before having sex.
But if you have a mystery plot, don't spend more of the book talking about how much of Jean-Claude's nipple we can see and whether or not Anita is going to marry Richard.On a brighter note (because this review suddenly became WAY more negative than I intended), I still like Ronnie and am even liking Dolph more.
If you are either of the above, please do not continue to read this review I love this book!
the first half of the series anyways.I’ve always been a little twisted.
With that said, keep in mind when you read this book that although left intrigued and wondering ..
I highly recommend you store this book away from curious little hands.
ANY book from this series.Filled with beautifully crafted and blood dripping crime scenes, obscenely provocative and perverted sexual content ..
This book begins where the previous left off so your best bet is to read these in order so you can figure out how these tangled relationships develop into the mess that becomes Anita’s love life.
Jean Claude her other would-be beau is sticking his nose in their business because he’s a jealous little vampire-man and hasn’t been able to woo Anita with his vampire charms and sea blue orbs of promised delight.
Anita is still raising zombies and helping out the spook squad but I noticed she begins to spend more time with the monsters and their politics here than in any of the previous books.
One of my first book I read that starting me reading Vampire books. I remember being blown away by the female character in this book, I had never read anything like her before. Also the idea of having a female character that is truly in love with two completely different men, and she is allowed to have both of them! Yeah we need more books like this. This is really a great series, at least the first 11 books are great. Way better than anything written by Stephanie Meyer. HA!

She gave that rich, bedroom laugh again. “I am alpha, Ms. Blake. I can do a great many things that most shifters cannot.” - Raina  Shape shifters are going missing in St. Louis and the monsters won’t talk to the police, but they will talk to Anita Blake. They would have earlier if not for Richard. Bad Richard. This is the first book where things start to go south. Richard is too much her opposite. The sort of relationship with drag out fights before the first date. It just gets uglier.Still a d
She gave that rich, bedroom laugh again.
“I am alpha, Ms. Blake.
I can do a great many things that most shifters cannot.” - Raina  Shape shifters are going missing in St. Louis and the monsters won’t talk to the police, but they will talk to Anita Blake.
They would have earlier if not for Richard.
Bad Richard.
This is the first book where things start to go south.
Richard is too much her opposite.
The sort of relationship with drag out fights before the first date.
It just gets uglier.Still a damn good story.And I love the ones Edward is in.Casting choices:
Jean-Claude must have really had some horrible centuries if Anita Blake is his ideal woman.The storywriting made me cringe - this is only the fourth book and there are already so many passages, phrases and character descriptions which are copied and pasted from the first one.
I understand that you can have a few catch phrases which are repeated througout the series, but some passages about places (Anita's apartment, Jean-Claude's office..) are just 1:1 copied.
Aswell as descriptions and characterisations of people which either show Hamilton's lack of writing skills or lack or interesting characters.
While visiting over New Year’s, my cousin & I got discussing this series, and she sent me home with a suitcase full of reading material—a happy New Year indeed.Although some aspects of the series are silly, I’m enjoying it despite that.
I mean Anita accepts a marriage proposal from a man (well, a werewolf) she really barely knows—and that becomes more and more obvious as the book progresses—and even though she has serious misgivings, they keep on as if they were actually going to go through with a wedding.
Especially since I now have a suitcase full of Anita Blake books to keep me supplied.
So we meet Richard, we kind of like Richard.
I don't I do not find a fun moment with Richard at all.
I much rather be with Jean-Claude.
I love the vampire; I love the other shifter.
But I do not love Richard.
Also, hello?
Edward.
Who is awesomesauce.
Ed, I am having fun with this series so far.
But I reserve the right to love these books through and through.
I love LKH's other series and really it is getting better.
So keep an open mind when you read this series.
I love you Jean-Claude, do not change, please.
First of all, there was hardly any Jean Claude and the bits we did get pretty much sucked.
And I hate that she doesn't accept any kind of help from anybody even if it's life or death.
I think I've reached my "done" point and that's funny because I was debating whether or not to continue the series even though I already know it turns into a smut fest.
I decided to continue and now I'm done after only deciding after finishing Circus of the Damned.
Well, maybe one day I'll revisit just to read the part where Jean Claude and her finally go all the way.
But instead of focusing on what is absolutely necessary in a 25+ book series, namely, character development and world-building, Hamilton focuses on action scenes and a whole bunch of stupid, pointless plot that keeps the story moving but gives us nothing.I finished this book less than 48 hours ago and I can hardly remember anything that happened.
There were a bunch of shapeshifter action scenes, lots of Anita just being a straight up bitch, and what is potentially the dumbest love triangle I have ever read.
Dude, the love triangle in Twilight made more sense than this one.
Anita claims she loves the vampire...Um, HOW?
4.5For some reason I can't seem to get bored of this series. Even more, I can't wait to start the next book to see what happens :D
I haven't pinpointed why and maybe if I decide to continue the series my opinion will change.Richard is a good werewolf who doesn't believe in killing just to kill.
Honestly, he is way to good for Anita and I wish he would walk and find himself a sweet girl who does love him, disease and all.The storyline in this book is OK.
This book had a good mystery in it when the writer actually focused on it and not just on putting Anita into situations where she was going to end up bloody.
Again with Richards stupid ass. Like why is he here? I know why but I won't say because that is a spoiler. But yes, more ass kicking please. More Jean Claude please. And can the next book go by quick so I can get to the parts of this series that made me end up getting all 25 books? LIKE NOW!? *wails*
The vampires are still around but they take a bit of a back seat here (aside from trying to kill or date Anita).The story is good, if a little disturbing at times and it's nice to see Anita coping (or not) with having a man in her life.
There's a lot of arguments but her humanity comes out a lot more as well as getting beaten up by various preturnatural creatures along the way.We get to see some pretty bad humans in this one too which makes a change.A fun story and good chapter which sets up some big plot points to come.
Anita için bir review yazmak daha yeni aklıma geliyor!Ama şimdi buna nasıl bi review yazılırki!Her yerde ismini duyuyordum bu kişinin.Ha,bu kim mi?Genellikle yataktan şu şekilde kalkan,penguen delisi,ilk 5 kitabı okumama rağmen hala çözemediğim insan evladıdırAnita benim hem çok sevdiğim(tabii şu an için) hem de çok acıdığım bir karakter.Kıza bir rahat yok.Hep bi koşuşturmaca içerisinde.Hatta kitabı okurken '' yeter be,bi nefes alsın kız  '' dediğim yerler bile oldu.Yine güzel bir kitaptı.Şu Edward a bayılıyorum.Hatta şu seride daha çok yeri olsun istiyorum.Richard a ise sinir oluyorum.Karakteri çok zayıf geliyor bana.Hani belki biraz güçlü bir karakteri olsa,bir şans verebilirdim.JC den bahsetmeme gerek yok sanırsam.Her ne kadar her daim edward desemde JC nin de ayrı bir yeri vardır bende.Sonuç olarak ilk iki kitapta ciddi anlamda sıkılsamda 3.
Great audio performance, it really added dimension to the book.
at least it’s supposed to get better
I freely admit that I have problems with Hamilton's writing.
You see, she has a great gift for tense plotting and engaging writing.
But instead of utilizing her talents, she turns her books into ridiculous will-they-won't-they soaps.
Basically, this book was all about Anita facing off Jean-Claude on the one hand and mulling over Richard on the other.
The plot itself - the search for the killer - took what?
Anita being all obnoxious and uppity, especially towards Richard, was...
DO NOT READ THIS IF YOU DON'T WANT TO READ ANY SPOILERS Anita Blake has got a hot date, with Richard, the werewolf she's been dating for a few months only.
But as you know, if you've read this book, their relationship just goes really fast, way too fast in my opinion.
Yes people, although Anita feels no remorse when she's got to kill someone or something, she feels remorse about having pre-marital sex.
I kinda like it, I think it's ridiculous, but it just suits him.Let's take a look at the people I hated on this book:-Aikensen-Titus-Raina-Markus - he's such an idiot, seriously!
She reasons that if she is Ok with Richard not being human, then she must also date Jean-Claude.
As Anita gets pulled further and further away from her principles, until the day that she wakes up and realizes that she has become that which she hates....THAT is where the series should have ended, and it would have been Awesome.(That's my Head Cannon anyway.....)To be Continued...In the afterward of the re-release of this book, the author states that she realizes now that this was the beginning of the end for Anita and Richard.
I honestly can't see how Anita and Richard would have gotten past those first few dates.
I'm always in search of a good vampire story, so I read the first four Anita Blake books.
Hamilton had a potentially interesting concept creating a world where most supernatural elements are real and integrated into society.
I like the concept of were-(insert any animal here).
What I don't like about Anita Blake books is Anita Blake!
It's hard to read books when the protagonist has an abrasive personality and nothing witty to say.
ps- I realize I'm probably not the target audience for these books.
Anita treats him like a CHUMP.
I think this was my favorite so far. Or maybe they are just getting better because I read them in order. I would like to see Anita give in to Richard a little but she really never does and that is a major part of her character, keeping her focus. Edward makes an appearance in every book so I wonder if anything romantic will happen between the two. Anita is always complaining that the men in her life perusing her are all monsters so what gives.
It also required no sleuthing, it was a bit of a cookie cutter ending where everything fell into place a bit too neatly just so that the book could end nice and tidy.The love triangle is bizarre, Jean Claude was odd in an effeminate Fabio / Evil torturer way, he lacked his usual pizzaz.
I guess it keeps the drama going and no one dies but it was a bit of a junior high cop out for an author that is usually a bit more original.Overal it was a fun, light read and the information on other supernatural creatures is interesting, but its not the best book and I think I'll scream if I have to hear about her black nikes with a blue swish one more time!
Another 'ok' from Hamiliton, although once again a gritty ending bringing the book up to par.
Maybe involve some soft lighting, candles, good music...and oh, yeah..a human(!) male next time!!After getting that off my chest....I'm also afraid to say that if anything these books are getting worse.
Or maybe teach her how to sleep - something this character hasn't managed for 4 books.
- make them feel the insomnia of the main character.I have been told this series gets good, and I love the subject matter, so I give Hamilton one more book before I end our relationship - pretty please make it a gdun.
On the hunt for missing lycanthropes, she is pulled into a new world she knows nothing about and has to learn the rules of the game before the game gets her killed.The plot of this book was great.
I am pretty biased in this instance though because the love story between Anita and Richard is not one that I can get on board with.
Also, Anita is very one sided and acts very childish in some instances, stating that Richard was lying to her, even though he just omitted telling her...which is not the same.
