https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177938.The_Harper_Hall_of_Pern
Oh my I have read and re-read thesebookssomany times over the years. Old friends
I've lost count on how many times I've read this series... If you love Pern, you'll love the Harper Hall!NOTE: I even think the author recommends this ... but, I found reading in this order makes the story flow better:DragonflightDragonquestthen: Harper Hall Trilogythen: White Dragon ...Enjoy!
From that time on she decides to live alone and from there her true adventure begins...Dragons and a world that seems so primitive yet if you read Dragonsdawn you will find it's actually set in the future but the've forgotten as years and years have gone by.Her planet that she lives on is called Pern.
She lives alone until something happens and is rescued and brought to another part of her planet.
Everytime I read it I get lost in the book and I myself enjoy the adventure she embarks on.
Thanks to my sister Chelsea, I got a chance to read this great story. I love the coming of age stories in a world that is not unlike our own, except there are dragons that protect the people from a threat that is beyond their control. Although it has been years since I was a 15 year old misunderstood girl, I was transported back to that time when the tunnel vision of my own personal tragedies of growing overshadowed the more relevant issues that were happening outside of the scope of my vision.
Read in Memory of Anne McCaffrey - it must have been about 20 years back I last read those 3 books included in this omnibus version (Dragonsong, Dragonsinger, Dragondrums) and this re-read felt like coming home. The books haven't lost any of their magic. To me these 3 and "The White Dragon" are Anne MaCaffreys best books in the Pern-Series. I cannot highly recommend the books - also for reading them again after some time.
I'm currently reading this series out loud to my husband. These were the books that hooked me on Pern specifically and Anne McCaffrey in general. It's been nearly a decade since I've re-read them, and I'm just as hooked now as ever. I can't wait to get through this trilogy and into the Dragonriders (again) next.
I first read this in 5th grade, and it introduced me to the wonderful world of Pern and writing of McCaffrey. I spent countless hours reading the dozens of books in this series, and in most of the author’s other worlds as well. I reread it now, in my late 30s, and though it is simpler than I remembered it is still full of wonder and music and dragons and it made me giddy feeling the excitement I felt when I first discovered it!
I enjoyed reading about Pern from another angle - that of the Harpers and general non-dragonriders. I like how McCaffrey tied everything I read about the harpers, specifically Menolly and Piemur, in the first 3 books into this series. Everything came together well and I think each of these books was quite well done.
I have reread this series many times. The first two books are about an unloved girl finding her place in the world.
These books made me want to be good at music. Or naturally talented at something, anything! ...but, alas, I am not.
(Y)
Menolly lives in a sea hold and loves music but she’s a girl and girls can’t be harpers so her father says. This is her story in book 1& 2 and also where we meet Piemur a young soprano harper. In book 3 Piemur has grown and his voice is changing, and now he has his adventure.
Good book
4.5 stars. Great series for any person who enjoys fantasy.
Menolly is encouraged by Harper Petiron and understands her better than her family does.
Petiron sends two of Menolly's songs to Masterharper Robinton because he believes in her that much.
Menolly's family expects her to mind her manners now that Harper Petiron is gone and awaiting the new Harper to come.
In Dragonsinger, we find Menolly in her first days as an apprentice at Harper Hall after being found at Benden Weyr's Hatching by Masterharper Robinton.
Piemur takes Menolly under his wing so to speak at Harper Hall.
In Dragondrums, we find Menolly settled at Harper Hall along with her friends Sebell and Piemur.
I was explaining to a friend how I absolutely adored anything dragon, and she suggested Anne McCaffrey to me, as she read a lot of her books as a teenager.
If you like fantasy books, interesting new worlds, young characters who come of age and achieve so much growth, then this is the series for you.
There is a lot of information/background that could make more sense if a person has read the other Pern books, but not so much that the reader couldn’t figure things out and enjoy the stories.
If you enjoyed this series, you should also look for The Masterharper of Pern book.I have loved the Dragonriders of Pern since I read the first one from my science fiction book club about 35 years ago.
I recently had to replace my original hardcover sci fi book club version as it fell apart from how many times it has been read.These is an excellent series to read as an adult or to a child, or for an older child to read on their own.
I have reread the harper trilogy and all the dragonrider books by Anne at least ten times, and some of the books even more often.
Dragonsinger carries on the story of Menolly and is equally as good.
Menolly is also a character in Dragondrums, but the book's protagonist is a young boy named Peimur, and it is not quite as fun a read as the first two books.
I read these books (usually skipping Dragondrums), as well as all the Pern books, several times over in my teens and early twenties, and never tired of them.
Dragonsong and Dragonsinger are two of my favorite books of all time, which I enthusiastically recommend to every young girl with an active imagination.
I admit that that night I read it in bed, I stayed up later than I had intended because I was curious to see what would happen.
Also, although I enjoy fantasy every now and then, I found that I had to work too hard to imagine the locations.
Because I feel like when I have read other fantasy novels I have not had to work so hard to imagine the locations.
When Jeff saw me reading it, he said, "now you're really geeking out!" I looked over at him, glanced down at his book about the boy wizard, and raised one eyebrow.
I love Anne McCaffrey’s Dragonriders of Pern books.
What’s not to love?
But my favorite McCaffrey books are actually the “Harper Hall Trilogy” books, “DragonSong,” “DragonSinger,” and “DragonDrums.” In this trilogy we meet Menolly, a musically gifted 15-year old girl growing up in an isolated community with rigid rules.
I returned to this trilogy over and over growing up, and it never failed to delight.
If you’re a fan of McCaffrey’s works but haven’t yet read these books, I highly recommend them.
Thrall (Daughters Of Lilith, Book One).
Menolly's heart and soul belong to music and that is the one thing that everyone is constantly trying to deny her.
This book is about her struggle with that and the rather unexpected solution that presents itself.DRAGONSINGERThe Harper Hall should be Menolly's saving grace, right?
This book is about Menolly's personal journey from Sea Holder's disgraced daughter to Masterharper's favorite.DRAGONDRUMSPiemur, the mischievous boy soprano, is experiencing the crushing effects of a male voice change.
Unable to sing with his golden voice, he is apprenticed to the drum master to learn message beats.
On the side, he is the secret apprentice of no less a person than Master Robinton!
I feel like I've never seen or noticed this side of Anne McCaffrey's writing before - and, having not read any of her other works for some years now, I'll be keen to go back and feel for impressions (ha!) - which is her MARY SUE side!
Oh, I am the most perfect, talented child in all the world, and everyone is working against me!
Perhaps this is very easy to relate to as a child, since we are developing and as-yet stuck in our egocentric snowglobe built around us by our doting old folks, etc, but it grates pretty hard upon the crusty ears of jaded adulthood.
Read it, kiddos!
I have a weakness for stories about female bards/musicians, and this is one of my favorites; it was my introduction to McCaffrey, and I actually like it much better than the "adult" Pern books involving Lessa, F'lar, etc.
My only substantial disappointment is that we see very few dragons in these stories, and instead we have to settle for fire lizards.
But the fire-lizards are charming.A youngster undervalued by nearly everyone in her orbit is rescued and transplanted into a new environment in which her gifts are appreciated and even admired.
A familiar formula, right?
Yet it's hard to miss with such a formula, particularly with a protagonist like Menolly who's easy to root for.
Anne McCaffrey's work continues to impress me. I am always amazed by the way the Pern series takes a new tack with each tale. This collection of three stories seems less like stereotypical fantasy than the others in the series I've read. Other than the fact that it's set on another planet with different conditions, one could see this as contemporary fiction. Many of the plot twists are based on human prejudices and politics, and ring true. Excellent work, I can barely wait until my public library delivers another such treat from her for me.


(I actually don't own the omnibus, I own the individual books, but I wanted to review them as a series so here it is.) These three books are probably my favorite Anne McCaffrey books.
I love watching Menolly grow from a self-effacing, shy girl who thinks she can't do anything into a self-reliant, clever, talented young woman who helps change the lives of the people around her.
I also adore fire lizards.
These books inspired my life-long love of all lizards, real or imagined.
I highly recommend these books!
These 3 Pern books, other than the trilogy of Dragonquest, Dragonflight, and The White Dragon, plus The MasterHarper of Pern are my favorite Pern books. I wish there were more Pern books about the regular people and the Harper Hall itself. I absolutely love the dragons and dragonriders, but I also love the Harpers and the Craftspeople.If you're looking for Pern books to get a teenager, or anyone, and are confused; I recommend the Dragonriders of Pern trilogy(Dragonquest, Dragonflight, and The White Dragon), along with the Harper Hall trilogy.
The Harper Hall of Pern (Pern: Harper Hall, #1-3)McCaffrey, Anne"a compliation ofdragon song: is the thrilling and sad adventure of a young teenage Melony who find her only friend gone and her world rejecting her, she saves the mythical fire lizards, and finds new friendship in them, while the rest of Pern is looking for this new song writer...dragon drums : peimers adventure on his own on the southern continate, how he investigates the problems and difficulties on the the southern continate by accident, and finds a place for himself and his stolen fire lizard"
My first Pern book. I know I read it when I was 13 because I remember taking it on the plane when I went to Europe at that time. This is really enjoyable and particularly relevant I'm sure to adolescent girls. All the main characters from the Dragonriders series (Flar, Lessa, Robinton) show up here and the timeline is somewhat parallel. I really enjoyed the small domestic side of Harper Hall, and the companionships and struggles amongst the various personalities there.
