https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135297.Gregory_the_Terrible_Eater
Little Gregory really wants healthy fruits a veggies, but his parents insist that he eat junk like every other goat.
It's also kind of effed up how Gregory is just fine until his parents enact a plan to make him conform, and then develops an eating disorder and obesity problem, but it isn't at all portrayed as their fault, no, it is Gregory who needs to learn a lesson.
I guess the lesson is do whatever your parents want?I'm sure I liked this better as a small child, although it was never a favorite.
A Reading Rainbow favorite! What are mother and father goat going to do when their son Gregory won't eat the delicious and nutritious "junk" (as in, tin cans, old coats and rubber tires) that all goats love to eat? When he continues to crave veggies, bread and fruits they take him to the doctor to see what can be done. Before there was Amy Krause Rosenthal, Mitchell Sharmat brought us this humorous tale that turns things on their heads and teaches a good little lesson in a hilarious an upside-down sort of way.
“Gregory, the Terrible Eater” is a fantastic book from the mind of Mitchell Sharmat along with illustrations by Jose Aruego and Ariane Dewey and it is about how a young goat named Gregory refuses to eat the junk from the junkyard that his parents tried to feed him.
“Gregory, the Terrible Eater” is the perfect book for parents who want a solution to help their children stop being picky eaters.
“Gregory, the Terrible Eater” is a wonderful book that discusses about how to deal with children who are picky eaters and the importance of not eating too much food.
The pictures were decent, the story was better.
About a little goat named Gregory who just won't eat his tires and rubber boots for dinner.
Instead he wants fruits and veggies and meat.
His parents are exasperated with him.
This is a good story for any child, but especially one who is a bad eater.
My kids all loved it, but my 5 yr old, who is a notoriously bad eater, liked it the best.
If you're having the kids read it, it's probably somewhere between a level 2 and 3.
A good solid story that will keep the Kindergartener's and up interested.
Cute book and illustrations about picky eaters.
Gregory finds it appetizing to eat junk food instead of the healthy goat food his parents provide for him.
As in real life, parents all the time find it difficult to provide healthy food for their children who are fussy eaters.
The parents, on the other hand, try to provide healthy options for their children to eat; such as fruits, vegetables, and baked meats.
In this story, the specific heathy goat food is opposite of what he wants to eat, which in real life is healthy.
Using this in real life is a fabulous idea, and I can see parents finding comfort in a solution to their children’s eating issues.
This book is about a goat, not just any ordinary goat, a goat who wants to eat fruit, vegetables and fishies.
Well, I bet you guys out there have eaten these foods so you probably know what he's eating, right.
His parents eat junk like coats, pants, tin cans, ice cream boxes, you know, all that kind of stuff.
In the book you will see a little goat called Gregory.
My favorite part is the end of the book because Gregory, well, you remember his name, right, he eats scrambled eggs and orange juice and wax paper on the side, actually, two waxed papers I mean.
This is a fun tale about nutrition that takes an upside down viewpoint about what's good to eat. Gregory's parents have the typical problem of trying to get their son to try new foods and eat what they prepare for him. Only the "food" is inedible from our perspective, which makes for a humorous story. Our girls enjoyed this tale.
A cleverly told message about junk food versus healthy food!
This is a weird book, but an enjoyable one. The best part? I remember the Reading Rainbow episode it was in!
Fun flip of perspectives. Scott and I read this together for Cora’s 1st Grade classroom and they ate it up. It’s a good reminder of controling eating habits, too.Mother Tongue Notes: The reading is a bit challenging for beginners because they can’t guess the story line. Also, the illustrations make some of the food difficult to identify. It’s easy to bring up cultural differences surrounding what we eat, while reading the book. There are several speakers, so it can be used easily in a shared reading setting.
Gregory wants to eat yummy human food, and his parents tell him there's something wrong with him. They manage to get him to eat goat food (tires and clothing and boots) but then he starts to gorge on everything, so they feed him too much on purpose. Gregory gets sick and then opts to eat a balance of human food (fruits and veggies) and goat food (buttons and tin cans and such). It's not a bad allegory for gradually easing children into eating healthy food, but I dunno about purposely feeding them too much junk.
This is a good book when trying to introduce new foods. I think it would have been better if it used real examples of healthy and non healthy foods, not objects that only goats eat. However, I thought it was a cute idea for teaching children to try new things.
This was a very funny story about eating habits, I feel like younger kids may struggle to understand this story because of all of the non-food items Gregory eat, so I would recommend reading it to older kids around the ages of 5-10 maybe. Other than that it's a great colorful and hilarious book.
this book could be used to discuss nutrition in a class. The illustrations are simple and a little dull. This story could also be used to talk about differences in taste for food or other things. It could help teach diversity.
Pretty funny with cute pictures. I don't think the book is very accurate on goat diets, but it might still be helpful with human children who are picky eaters. That said, my favorite parts were the end pages. I loved that artwork.
I loved this book, including the prop that my peer made. It shows children that when you eat unhealthy you don't feel good and when you do you will feel good. This shows children why they should eat well. The picture were also very cute. I enjoyed this book very much.
Mother and Father goat tries to get Gregory to eat delicious and healthy food staples ( old shoes, tin cans) like all the other goats but he just wants to eat fruits, vegetables, and drink orange juice. A great book to use when teaching children about healthy food choices.
I read this as a child. It was a fun read and I look forward to reading it to my nieces and nephews in the future.
Adorable goats in a book that is as old as I am, Gregory is a winner, even if he is a terrible eater.
Umm this is cute but wtf, it’s kind of a terrible story. The parents essentially give that poor goat an eating disorder and his good eating habits are effed up for life. What gives?
Love it! What a brilliant way to approach picky eating while being completely entertaining for the non-picky eaters. Very funny and clever.
a book you can teach about the importance of healthy eating.
Humorous for all eaters, picky or otherwise.
Such a classic story. How can you not fall in love with Gregory?
My daughter mentioned that this was one of her favorite books to read to her students so I bought it! Great read. Funny, bright pictures and cute story.
It's a very funny and clever book.
This funny little tale about a picky eater is very interesting. I think it would be perfect for children who are 6-7 years old. I enjoyed it.
I liked this book very much. It is silly and can be used for picky eaters. It shows good eating habits and bad ones, and also shows ways to get children to try new foods.
This book teaches healthy eating habits in reverse. It also shows what happens when you don't eat healthy. Teaches children ways to help continue to try new foods.
