https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487953.The_Great_Ghost_Rescue
But luckily for this family, headed by the Gliding Kilt and his wife, the Hag, they meet a little boy at his school, Rick, who empathises with his fellow creatures and sets out to help them get a sanctuary for ghosts.
This was once again a fun read but much more than just an adventure story with ghosts.
There are places where she expressly talks about people who are not wanted because they are different, but really the whole book is about that as well—that everyone, animal, human, even ghost or vampire-bat is entitled to a place where they can live securely and happily.
Another pleasant, humorous ghostly story by Eva Ibbotson; I quite liked this one, and it was a good Halloween read for me. The various ghosts were interesting and I liked the British setting :-)
Aksi menyelamatkan para hantu dari kemodernan manusia XDKhas Ms. Ibbotson, yang kisahnya penuh humor menggelitik serta sarkasme atas kelakuan semena-mena manusia.
What a thoroughly enjoyable book!Ibbotson has such a way with words.
Also, the book could also raise some concerns among young readers who will find themselves questioning non-vegetarian diets, environmentalism, etc.
All good questions, but know that the issues are raised.All in all this is a fun and fast read and I'm already delving into other Ibbotson works!
I'm quite excited :D Seems like it will be a good way to start of 2011 reading :)
I LOVED this book!
I truly think fans aching for more along the lines of Harry Potter will enjoy this book because what makes HP come alive for me, made it truly exciting and moving and special, is the characters and all the little nuances and how before you even know it, you feel that you have met them and you are fast friends (or enemies!) and Ibbotson has that same glorious skill in creating her characters, even though the overall plot complexity of this novel is much less epic and detailed than HP.
We stayed up late finishing this book last night, and I'm tempted to throw over Percy Jackson in favor of reading Eva Ibbotson's entire oeuvre.
She has such a clear voice and a charming, gentle sense of humor...
The ending is honestly pretty perfect.Once again, I find the older children's books are better for reading aloud than most of the more recent stuff, in terms of both sentence structure and chapter length, even if the plots are sometimes a little slower.
I'm so glad I discovered Eva Ibbotson, and just wish I'd known about her when I was middle grade age! Her stories are all cute and funny, but also include statements on big issues. This one is from 1975, and the boy in the story is showing concern about all the things that get used up and animals that die off, and being fair to everyone and finding a safe place for all ghosts. Definitely a fun read with a message, I would definitely recommend her, and will continue to find and read of hers what I can!
This is a read-aloud book!
If you're looking for a book to read to your kids, this is it!
So I'm reading this book to myself alone at night and I found myself wanting to read it out loud!
To my junior high kids.
But I called my junior high school librarian and told her to put this on the shelf and put it on the list of read-aloud books!
Meanwhile, this is a great book about some ghosts in England who suddenly become homeless.
They have a human who takes up their cause and wants to help them acquire a nice castle in the north to use as a ghost retirement home.
I was taken in from the very first chapter,in which she describes a ghost family and explains why they've become homeless.
Like so many of her novels, there is an underlying environmental theme: that in the pursuit of "progress" and "change" we have destroyed the natural habitat of many living creatures.
The joke in this book is that the living creatures are actually ghosts .
This book is full of the charm and humour and eccentricity that makes her so beloved.
I loved the character of the pale pink (and not very scary) ghost who comes to the fore and saves his family through bravery and cunning.
The ghost family are turned out of their castle home when humans plan to redevelop the castle into a holiday resort. They travel across England, accompanied by their headless Aunt Hortensia and their pet Shuk, and come to Norton Castle School, mistaking it for an empty castle. Here, they meet Rick, a student quite unafraid of ghosts. Rick plans to take the ghosts to the Prime Minister for peace talks concerning the large numbers of ghosts being turned out of their homes.Not as great as other books in this series but a worthy read.
I really liked this book, as I do all of Eva Ibbotson's work. She's one of my favorite children's authors. Her books always include important messages and subvert stereotypical assumptions. In this book, however, the messages were a bit scattered. Unlike Island of the Aunts, TGGR was trying to do too many things at once, I think. It was still a silly, spooky, enjoyable read, but not my favorite Ibbotson.
It's a fun children's Halloween read (or anytime someone is interested in ghosts and other monsters).
It turns on its head the normal story line of children being rescued from ghosts to rescuing ghosts from modernization and horrible people.
I love the idea of a haven for ghosts and other things that go-bump-in-the-night.It is interesting how some writers can mention kid's parents dying, being beaten and other horrible things but if it is mentioned in a matter-of-the-fact manner without dwelling on the details it doesn't seem to bad.
I am amazed that this middle-grade book was published in 1975.
When the ghosts from different eras emerged, we learn about their backstory and get a glimpse into UK’s history.
History lessons so subtly done!
If you are looking for a Halloween-themed book for a young middle grader, check this one out.
It’s got all the “spooky” characters children will have come across, like ghosts, witches and spirits, but they can easily be any animal or human characters, just with a little quirk.
One of my laugh-out-loud moments was when the River Spirit asked this family of ghosts to look at his tonsils.
Despite featuring many stereotypical horror story elements, The Great Ghost Rescue is not a horror story. In fact, it turns the genre on its head, giving us a protagonist in a ghost who is not scary at all. Just when you think this great story is finished, the plot thickens and draws you in even further. This book offers many great opportunities for using drama in the classroom and is suitable for all of Key Stage 2.
This was a spooky, cooky book about ghosts. I had seen the 2011 movie before, but never knew there was a book. So, when I found out there was a children's novel, I thought it would be perfect for the month of October.
My kids would definitely give this a higher rating, but I just can't because, quite frankly, I didn't really enjoy it. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2016/10/tw...
Read it as a 8-9 year old and loved it in an instant! Have returned to it twice since then and still enjoy this crazy, quirky adventure.
I adored this book growing up, I remember being extremely caught up with Humphrey, I was probably about 10
Rick’s plan: head off to London and make an appeal to the Prime Minister for a Ghost Sanctuary.Meanwhile, ghosts and other spectres elsewhere are also losing their homes as rivers get polluted with industrial waste...lovely old estates get converted to tourist hotels and green fields morph into smog-filled motorways.
Rick and his motley crew are soon accompanied by displaced ghosts and even a family of blood-starved vampire bats.
And will the ghosts find a place where they can truly, in the full sense of the word.....Rest In Peace?Eva Ibbotson’s droll sense of humour effectively puts across an ecological message.
A ghost named Humphrey and his family need to find a new place to live after the manor they’ve haunted for centuries is being modernized.
While looking for an acceptable place, they meet up with schoolboy Rick Henderson who decides what the ghosts of England need is a sanctuary, and he is going to do all he can to get them one.
Along the way, Rick finds out more than just ghosts exist – there are vampire bats, werewolves, and witches, too.The Great Ghost starts off simple: “Humphrey the Horrible was a ghost.” Except, Humphrey isn’t horrible – in name or otherwise.
It is a sad day in the ghostly world, when all of the deliciouly scummy, maggotty, worm-infested haunts are being overrun by...urban sprawl?
Humphrey, the Horrible, who really isn't too horrible, befriends a human boy, Rick Henderson.
Rick learns about the terrible trouble infesting the ghostly world.
Rick takes kindly to their woes and devises a plan to rescue his new other-world friends.
Mabel and Hamish and their children George, Winnie and Humphrey need to find a new place to haunt, er...that is, live.
At first, all is well, but danger is once again lurking for these spirits in Insleyfarne.
It's 'Rick Henderson to the Rescue' again!
The use of ghosts in their many different forms was unusual and added nicely to the overall story line.
The two main characters Humphrey the Horrible (a ghost that tries to be horrible; but, isn’t) and Rick Henderson, a young boy at an “academy”.
This is how Humphrey becomes acquainted with young Rick Henderson.
Rick is a boy, about 10 – 12 years of age, that feels he must have a “mission” in life and he decides to try and find the ghosts a sanctuary.
This is the main plot of the story.
The Great Ghost Rescue, a book full of ghosts, excitement, and action that you won’t be able to resist.
Rick the protagonist and a human helps a bunch of ghosts to find a sanctuary.
The Great Ghost Rescue, a book by Eva Ibboston has encouraged me to read more of her ghost books because I find them to be really enjoyable for their plot and the exciting sequence of the events.
Rick embarks on a journey to find a sanctuary for his ghost friends.
It’s all about an exciting journey that will provoke you to read more of Ibboston’s books.
Humprey the Horrible is a little ghost who is...well, not so horrible.
He lives happily with his family in an old mansion in remote England.
When developers decide to give their home a great renovation, the ghosts have to flee in search of a new place to live.
Although keeping a comical, light-hearted trend, some pretty gruesome descriptions are found which surprised me as this is classified as children's fiction.
Not Ibbotson's best children's novel, perhaps because this was her debut.
This is definitely a children's book, without the depth you'd like for anyone over the age of nine or ten.
However, as you might find in Roald Dahl's work, there is a great deal of the horrible and ghastly in this ghost story.
Nobility, and the desire to serve others, is also rampant, but doesn't do completely away with the vivid pictures Ms. Ibbotson paints of her ghosts.
So, as is true with Dahl's work, this is not for the faint-of-heart child.
Then again, I'm not sure I know any faint-of-heart children -- most of them are very, very brave, like Rick and Humphrey, the heroes of this story.
His plan is to talk to the Prime Minister (the story takes place in England) and get government support for his idea.What he doesn't know is that the guy with the Prime Minister is a bigot of the first degree, hating anything that is “different,” so he hates ghosts especially and has an idea of how to destroy all of them.There's a good group of ghosts and the author's descriptions of them are well done and they all have identifiable personalities.
When I say decent I mean a story that's fairly good, but not the kind you just have to keep reading at one sitting to see what will happen next.
I first read Ibbotson's The Great Ghost Rescue in Swedish as a kid and loved it.
Then I picked it up again a few year's back, that time in English, and found it just as lovely and enjoyable as I remembered it.
This time around, I have been reading it aloud to my pregnant significant other, and the book is still as enjoyable, funny and moving as ever.It is the story of Humphrey the Horrible and his family: the Hag (his mother) and the Gliding Kilt (his father), George (his big brother, who is a screaming skull) and Winifred (his big sister), and last but not least, of course, headless Aunt Hortensia.
This was one of the greatest books I've read in my life.
The colourful characters that this book contains are so interesting, it just make you want to read more.I found a copy of this book in the local library and read it cover to cover in a matter of hours.A few years later I went looking for it in several bookshops here in Belgium (I read the dutch translation) but I never found it.
It turned out that this was not a very well-known book amongst booksellers in Belgium, so I never got my own copy.
It also taught me that sometimes the most impossible task can be achieved if it's broken down into small steps.
Such an impossible task is the one which Humphrey, the not so Horrible, is faced with when all his family is faced with certain extinction at the hands of rabid exorcists.
As a cautionary tale against discrimination, it's up there with the best of them, and as a romping good read with laugh out loud sections, it's the best two hours you can spend on a rainy Saturday afternoon.
I know it's for children, but get over that and enjoy a "frighteningly" good tale.
Not badly written but could not for the love me finish it (and it's a short, easy read too!) because it bored me, and I didn't care for any of the characters or the plot.
If there was ever a conservative, anti-progress plea for ghosts and environmentalism, this novel would be it.
The same gag is played over and over: The ghosts are really smelly, ugly, scary, and gross, but that's a good thing from their perspective; yet on the other hand, the smelliness, ugliness, scariness, and grossness of factories and polluted rivers and living people is somehow unacceptable?
I hate pollution too, but, ew, double standards!
