https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542639.The_Shock_of_the_New
He moves the story forward in several broad themes – how art confronts or is absorbed by power; what architecture thinks it’s doing to us; the interior landscapes of art like surrealism and abstraction; and how art has lost any kind of plot it thought it might have had, and if that might be a good thing.I opened at random and my eye fell on p 382:Duchamp invented a category he called “infra-mince”, “sub-tiny”; it was occupied, for instance, by the difference in weight between a clean shirt and the same shirt worn once.The only thing wrong with this book is that Mr Hughes didn’t do an even more expanded and updated version before he died in 2012.
My favorite story about modern art comes from my friend.
I’ll let her tell it:So I was in the Museum of Modern Art one day, you know, walking around and stuff.
I walked in one room and I saw this thing on the wall, and it looked really weird.
So I bent down and started to look at it.
There was this other visitor, who started looking at it too.
Then all of the sudden the wall opened and a man walked out.
Me and the other visitor looked at each other and laughed.
It was a doorknob.
I love this sto
Hughes emphasizes over and over again how the hopes of modern artists to change the world have proven empty, and ends the program by proclaiming the death of the avant-garde.For Hughes, art (and he means highbrow visual art) has completely failed in its attempt to become socially significant in the modern age.
Meanwhile, we see the progress of visual art, from a religion of the future, to an act of protest, to a commodity to be bought and sold by rich investors and institutions.With the decline of traditional religion, many artists thought that they could fill the gap left in society.
No, today the difference between human and machine is becoming harder to recognise, harder to understand, harder to remove ourselves from.In this work, as in Ways of Seeing, we are told that cheap mechanical reproduction of works of art – such as that which is made available by the camera, the printing press, the television image, the computer screen – all devalue art, all are like zombies on the true work of art.
I bought this book after a trip to the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
I left the museum confused and annoyed by Modern art.
I could not find anything to explain Modern art.
I read about 30 pages in the book store and couldn't put it down.
I think watching or reading any of Hughes' work, is like a conversation with a your really smart and excentric uncle.
After reading this book and watching the series, I now understand Modern art and feel justified by being annoyed by it.
Most of the other reviews say it all - this weighty and expensive book was the main text of my college class on Modern Art but but boy was it worth it.
Probably best seen in conjunction with the original BBC series, you will almost certainly learn something you didn't know, find something you weren't aware you loved, finally be able to put your finger on why you hated something else, and be dazzled and somewhat saddened by how important art used to be in the lives of people.
An amazing book - they should make every high school student read it!
A brilliant book to finish off my challenge for this year, Hughes has a way of explaining complex cultural issues that just sticks with me and makes so much sense.
I'm going to quote a long section from the end of Chapter Two now because it's so beautiful:"It seems obvious, looking back, that the artists of Weimar Germany and Leninist Russia lived in a much more attenuated landscape of media than ours, and their reward was they could still believe, in good faith and without bombast, that art could morally influence the world.
The difference between us and the artists of the 1920s is that they thought such a work of art could be made.
Hughes' opinionated and politically charged biography of modern art and its dialogue with a culture in turmoil is always on the side of the radical against the status quo.
He hates oppression, elitism, and frivolous self-indulgence, which is his general opinion of postmodernism.The Shock of the New was a hugely important part of my education, helping me to become conversant in the movements of modernism and the work and perspectives of many of its protagonists.
The pleasure I have subsequently experienced in seeing, sharing and discussing art is in large part owed to Hughes.
Hughes possesses all the essential traits of a brilliant art critic: he's not a snob, he's perceptive about the difference between shyte and wank, he's enthusiastic about playfulness and populism, and he's willing to admit he's wrong (in this book, it's Philip Guston).
The fact that his career was centered upon TIME Magazine is a testament to his sense of populist principle, and evidence that there really are no other brilliant art critics out there.
(I had my hopes for Dave Hickey way back when, but...) Most normal people -- especially those of the "you call that art?!?" school of thought -- should give this book a go.
Great text about the history of modern art, from the influence of the impressionists forward. It is fun to read, and does a good job of correlating the history of a given time to the ideology of a movement in art. If you think you don't like modern art, read this book!
I saw Hughes give an interview on Charlie Rose and kept his book in mind until I ran across it at my favorite book store in LA.I've read a few art history books before, and this one stands out.
Artists and movements flush together as Hughes never takes a break.
What this torrent of information provides is an incredible sense of interconnectedness across art, as well as a clever narrative ploy to always keep me engaged.
Few artists are treated with more than a page or so (which is incredible, seeing as the book is over 400 pages long).
Robert Hughes does an excellent job at connecting several political movements, wars, and philosophical theories to several modern art movements. The book flows naturally through the major art movements of the the 20th century. Hughes ultimately attributes all modern art to the construction of the Eiffel Tower. A must read for modern art enthusiasts.
I was introduced to this book by my Art History professor. For anyone who has ever looked at modern art and said 'I don't get it', this book is for you. Hughes explains the cultural, political and societal factors that caused the modern art movement and why it matters.
This book was my textbook for an art history course and I loved loved loved both the text and the course. This book is almost as exhausTING as it is exhausTIVE, but worth it if you're at all interested in "modern art".
(The relationship between early modern art and machinery, or the manifestos of various movements, are not as interesting to me as, say, the artists themselves and why their ideas were influential - while others were not.)Hughes makes the case that art and the avant-garde are, essentially, dead.
Somewhere in the book, Hughes rags on Le Corbusier, calling him a failure because his ideologically-charged architecture was out of touch with human needs.
A wonderful, and relatively brief history of European and American Modernism.
As Hughes admits in the Introduction, the scope of his narrative is limited.
Originally conceived of as a BBC documentary, he mostly sticks to names you know.
However, he brings an attention and a reverence to each that creates a vivid impression of these artists' individual and collective contributions to the movement.
Rather than monolithic, this history and its figures are very consciously human in scale.Where in his criticism, Hughes is often overly snarky, here he seems genuinely excited by his material and the feeling is often contagious.
the best introduction to modern art i know of. down-to-earth, witty and opinionated writing that manages to survey the main currents of modernism without the dumbing-down that surveys often resort to.
Educated, loving, pithy and aggressive description of aspects of the history of Modern Art. Great read.
Wonderfully opinionated! Even if you can't always agree with Hughes, his writing pulses with energy and the ability to make you see the world differently.
Great, apart from his assertion that the last true work of political art was Picasso's Guernica.
Hughes is a great writer! He makes art history enjoyable and undestandable...I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in modern art movements and their origins.
If you can pair this with the DVD of the 1980s PBS show, do it. You will soon be hearing Hughes' voice with every cranky insight.
I studied music at an arts boarding school for high schoolers. My roommate was a visual arts major. She had this book for one of her classes. I don't know how I got around to reading her book that she needed for class. I was busy with my own classes music, but this book captivated me. In college, some friends (show attended the school across the street from the one I attended) used this book in their art history class. I remember having dinner out with them while they studied from this book and I was happy to help them.
Very academic, if your into that sort of thing. There is so much great information about art in this book and I thoroughly enjoyed learning more about the iconic pieces described. Also, there are some beautiful pictures, printed on glossy thick paper that is a pleasure to feel turning the pages. However, not all of the art that is discussed (for entire pages) is pictured. About half of it requires a Google to see the image. The art jargon also gets a bit tedious at times (most of the time.)
Robert Hughes' history of modern art from its inception to the modern day (well, of 1980). Hughes is articulate, historically minded, analytic, and humorous. I'd consider it essential reading for anyone wanting an introduction to the form. I wish it had more color plates, although it's already a massive tome and to show prints of every work discussed would make it unweildable.
Hace años vi la serie de documentales que dieron origen al libro y me pareció interesante y esclarecedora. Pero es en la escritura en extenso en la que Hughes verdaderamente despliega la profundidad de su conocimiento y su pensamiento crítico.
Extreme focus on Western Art. But for someone who never took an Art History in class, this is a wonderful framing book. It also introduced me to my favorite painting that I never knew about, until I read this book.
A quite interesting dissection and explanation of the varying, often-warring factions that made up the modern art movement from the late 1800s to the 1980s. Excellent context to an often obtuse and obscure artform.
Wonderful All-rounder on the history of art, artistic movements and all-round quirky bastards with substantial say in the history of the world; and who have been Riddikulus'ed out of the collective memory.TV series hosted by the author himself: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J3ne7...
nice book
great reference book for western modern art, a pity it is not talking much about the Japanese, Chinese or in general world art scene
