https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948009.Intimacy
Intimations of IntimacyThis collection of five short stories was first published in French in 1939.At the time, Sartre had already written his first novel, “Nausea”, and several philosophical works.My copy of the English translation was published by Panther Books and was marketed as“the brilliant study of the corruption of love”.” There are four photos of a naked brunette woman only partly cloaked by her bedsheets, as if viewed in an oval mirror (the frame of which could also pass for a large keyhole).I’m not sure how well it sold in the English-speaking world.
“The Wall” reminded me of Camus and Orwell; “Erostratus” of Dostoyevsky; “The Childhood of a Leader” was Proustian.Sartre seemed to be experimenting with different voices.“Intimacy” I found this story the most difficult, and therefore recommend that you read it first.The story is a strange combination of third and first person narration.
FUCKING BRILLIANT."He loves me, hedoesn't love my bowels, if they showed him my appendix in aglass he wouldn't recognize it, he's always feeling me, but ifthey put the glass in his hands he wouldn't touch it, he wouldn'tthink, "that's hers," you ought to love all of somebody, theesophagus, the liver, the intestines. Maybe we don't love thembecause we aren't used to them, if we saw them the way we sawour hands and arms maybe we'd love them; the starfish must loveeach other better than we do."
"The Wall" was by far my favorite story in here. I got completely absorbed and felt almost as mentally exhausted as the protagonist at the end. Although- disclaimer: I was quite stoned when I read it.
And in Intimacy, I'd say that all the characters are plagued by freedom, freedom of religion, freedom of someone taking their hand and leading them forward.This is the one time when I feel as though the description on the back of the book is incredibly apt: "Here is a portrait of life seen from new and revealing angles, in which the human soul is stripped of its civilized veneer, and layers of experience are peeled back with ferocious skill-to reveal the depths of the private oppressions, sensualities and neuroses of our time, and the overwhelming evil to which modern man can descend." I was truly amazed with Sartre's writing style, and I recall, upon finishing the first short story, "Intimacy", thinking, "So that's what Pulitzer Prize writing is like."Intimacy is a book about anxiety in the city.
I remember; It was only the other day that I was with a couple of friends and I spoke to them about a story I intended to write...
It was my (in my head, as always) an original idea and they liked it as well.
Little did I know that Monsieur le Sartre had deja produced a work which resembled my deepest thoughts.
I reckon, after having read the wall, I started to realise that my stories revolved around an existentialist backdrop.
I confess however, that Sartre and I did connect, and this divine connection made me reflect on my own beliefs and areas of interest.
Time unravels for the reader as it does for the characters.
It is beautiful.I purchased this book thinking it was a novel.
I'm glad it isn't, though each of the five stories are interesting enough that they could become a novel, and one, The Childhood of a Leader, is a sweeping tale that certainly would qualify as a novella.
And none of them are stories about beautiful people.
It is an incredible study.I think Sartre is a more convincing author with this work than with the other that I have read - Nausea.
Perhaps I just wasn't wise enough to see what he was saying when I read it this time last year...
"At that moment I felt that I had my whole life in front of me and I thought, "It's a damned lie." It was worth nothing because it was finished.
I wondered how I'd been able to walk, to laugh with the girls: I wouldn't have moved so much as my little finger if I had only imagined I would die like this.
My life was in front of me, shut, closed, like a bag and yet everything inside of it was unfinished.
For an instant I tried to judge it.
I wanted to tell myself, this is a beautiful life.
This finished the last story of the collection, the novella "The Childhood of a Leader". A confusing story of a confused privileged mind, developing opinions and getting more mature page by page. Not exactly in a positive way. Overall, very interesting collection, touching on human thought, as chaotic or nonsensical as it might be. Very different stories, some more gripping than others, all for different reasons.
The Wall was the best one
The only stuff I knew about Sartre was that he once refused a Nobel and that he was part of the French intelligentsia, plus I had a strong suspicion that his work is of the difficult kind.
But curiosity got the best of me, curiosity and the size of this small collection.
The first story in this edition took me a few pages to get into but maybe it was just prejudice or something because it suddenly sort of cleared up and it just got progressively better and better culminating with 'The Childhood of a Leader' which in its 90 pages covers more ground than stories five times the size.
Prolific.
Outstanding work.
"Intimacy" without any intimate feelings.
Cruel and disastrous confession of the human nature.
He loves me, hedoesn't love my bowels, if they showed him my appendix in aglass he wouldn't recognize it, he's always feeling me, but ifthey put the glass in his hands he wouldn't touch it, he wouldn'tthink, "that's hers," you ought to love all of somebody, theesophagus, the liver, the intestines.
Maybe we don't love thembecause we aren't used to them, if we saw them the way we sawour hands and arms maybe we'd love them; the starfish must loveeach other better than we do.
Read this too long ago. It made a huge impression but with time Sartre's contrived narratives to convey his arguments dims somewhat. It is essential reading for a brief, but very, significant period.
MY FAVORITE SARTRE
Оповідь про Люсі, котра не кохала свого чоловіка Анрі, і мала коханці П'єра. Надто слабкодуха, щоб порвати з Анрі, за якимось дивним збігом обставин вона таки кидає його, та ненадовго, бо зрозуміла, що Анрі - єдиний для неї. П'єр абсолютно не засмучений тим розвитком подій, адже все сталося якнайкраще. Подруга Люсі тут найцікавіший персонаж, вона водночас і вболіває за Люсі, і заздрить їй, і чомусь бачить подругу у майбутньому лише з П'єром.
What comes after is more painful than the abuse itself.
I don't care much for short stories, so I had to force myself to finish this book, even it's by Sartre.
I'm afraid the book didn't live up to the hype, but that's OK.As I said,I don't really care for short stories.
#3 The Wall I liked and #4 The Childhood of a Leader and #5 the Room were outstanding, though #4 dragged a little bit in places.
I don't know if Sartre meant to skewer Freud or not ,but he did.
I've never read a review of The Room, but it struck me as gothic--like something Poe would have written--Eve/Agatha and Pierce would have had to switch roles however.
لولو الشخصية المهمة التي تعاني من الضياع وبعثرتها بين اشخاص الحكاية من دون ان تعرف مغزى تملكّها فالكل يطمح لخط حكاية لولو كما ينبغي ولولو الصغيرة تضيع من خلالهم أكثر فأكثر ريرات التي تعيش وجودها من خلال وجود لولو والتي تحاول ان تكون صوت الحكة والعقل الجرئ ولكن هي مجرد بائسة فلا تملك لوجودها من وجود لولو شئ ..
لعلنا لا نحبّ هذهِ الأعضاء بحكم عدم التعود عليها ..
فلو رأيناها كما نرى أيدينا وأذرعنا لأحببناها على ما أعتقد ..
والجميع يرون هذهِ المعدة ..
Five stories, all brilliant, all dark, most perverse to some degree, all so full of insight into the human condition it was a pain every time I had to stop reading.
"Erostratus" puts us in the mind of a young man who intends to kill randomly.
"The Wall" is the tale of prisoners of war doomed to be killed by firing squad.
And "The Room" has four characters, three of whom take turns having their mind probed by the narrarator of a story about the fourth character, a man who has gone mad.
There were 4 short stories in the version of "Intimacy" that I read (maybe they're all that way).
I thought the first one, Intimacy, was good; however, the rest were just...
These short stories were good and definitely thought provoking in terms of thinking about our own humanity, but I guess I was more in the mood for a good story and not just reading into people's psyche.
Maybe this was worth 3 stars and I just wasn't in the mood.
However, if you're looking for some really good thought provoking philosophical fiction, I'd suggest skipping this one.
It is just really sad to finish these stories; they have all been such good friends to me: friends with excellent bits of advice, experiences and stories to share, and a stupid, unexpected way of disappearing out of your life.
So, Sartre is really so goddamn good at throwing you lines at the end of his stories that make you want to throw the book away, but then you hold on to it so tightly like holding on for dear life because you cannot simply leave the book when you are haunted by the electrifying need to be disturbed (on all levels).
Loved the childhood of a leader(?) chapter - how arbitrary our identity can be as it forms in adolescence.
Really the arbitrary nature of many of our decisions struck me in this book.
The rebel who would rather die than inform on a man he feels very little for, the listless discomfort of the woman in the opening chapter, who seems to be pushed into action only by who accidently intuits her feelings best.
Chance and identity seem to me to be themes, making the title ironic because without actual intention - when chance makes up the majority of your character - can there be any real intimacy?
For me intimacy reflected on the ranging attachment of one central character (Lulu) with the other 3.
It was a revelation of intimacy over a number of years becoming vapid, indifferent and even stale.
The intimacy that was spiritual or plainly curious.
And of course, one that "felt" like it was liberating from the old monotony and had hopes of a fresher start at life.
All these were unique and defined by the central character.
It was her vs the rest.
Unless she existed and experienced these varying intimaces  with the rest, they wouldn't exist (to her).Recommended for existentialists and short fiction lovers.

در داستان "محرمیت"، لولو تصمیم دارد شوهرش "هنری" را ترک کند و با عاشقش "پی یر" از چنگ کلیشه های قراردادی (زناشویی) بگریزد.
او سخت میل دارد از همسر، دوست و شوهر (قراردادهای اجتماعی) عبور می کند و به عشقش برسد (آزادی).
لولو فکر می کند گریز با پی یر، در انتها همان قدر اعتماد و اطمینان می آفریند، که اکنون با هنری دارد (محرمیت، عادت، نزدیکی).
تصمیم می گیرد با هنری بماند.
سنت و عادت، اطمینان و امنیت می آورد، حال آن که آزادی سرشار از اضطراب و ناامنی ست.
در مورد ژان پل سارتر، مطلبی جداگانه نوشته ام؛ http://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
I bought this from a second hand book stall at my university, and the seller mentioned that he really enjoyed all of the short stories bar the first one (Intimacy) I found that I enjoyed all bar the last story, I didn't find it easy to read and it didn't really go anywhere for me. I love the way that JP writes, it really grabs me and I would definitely recommend this collection of short stories. Intimacy would have to be my favourite of the lot :)
Possibly, in its day, it was racy, obtuse, and maybe even *gasp*-worthy, but we've transcended that in this day and age. So, that aside, we take a look at the philosophy behind intimacy and there's just not that much there. This seems like one of those books that Sartre wrote to fulfill a contractual agreement. Parts of it are very dark and soul-searching, but on the whole it lacks engagement. Probably not the best Sartre to begin with, but it was on the top of the stack.
Thought I was reading a novel at first and was really intrigued. The first story was a great character study and evoked a sense of helplessness. Beyond that endings fell to cliche and overstatement. It seems incredible now that men happily strode off to fight for abstract causes (the subject of the second story which seemed to deal with the irony of fate)
“Here is a portrait of life seen from new and revealing angles, in which the human soul is stripped of its civilized veneer, and layers of experience are peeled back with ferocious skill-to reveal the depths of the private oppressions, sensualities and neuroses of our time, and the overwhelming evil to which modern man can descend.”
Really enjoyed Intimacy and The Wall, but the others were unsettling. I enjoyed them because they were interesting and invoked a strong reaction to them, but they made me too uncomfortable to fully enjoy.
Good. I enjoy his work.
