https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/448061.Linda_Goodman_s_Love_Signs
yes, it's dated and sexist. but damn, it's good. scarily accurate!
If Goodman's "Sun Signs" is the Bible of astrology(and it is), then "Love Signs" is The New Testament.Here, Goodman takes her phenomenal understanding of each sign, and accurately applies it to the intricacies of the way male and female members of each sign interact with every other sign.
She's eerily on target with the joys and heartaches that can be expected with every possible astrological match.With the love and humor that was her style, Goodman shows us that no combination of signs in an impossible match.
Some are only more challenging than others!A must read for everyone who ever fell in love, or ever will.
Linda Goodman is such a talented author because while teaching her readers about the sun signs and how the behave around each other but she uses his words in such a poetic way that just blows the readers away.
This book helped me a lot with my relationships in my family.
As I was reading this book I realized that Linda loves to use similes, and I love reading similies so this book was just perfect for me.
And thats all you can ask from an author as reader, so this book was just amazing to read and I enjoyed it a lot.
so true
In most cases, interested persons were already at least identified with their sun sign, and so you might say that I'm reviewing as and for biased parties, but MAN, Linda Goodman sure can pen down that flowery language for each sign as though she's been there before, and it impresses all those I've talked to.
In some cases, I've seen this book produce tears.
Without having to delve into the common issues with astrology, I would just have to say that Goodman presents her interpretation of sign-sign interaction thoroughly (and provides an optimistic bent for the general pessimistic prophecies some combinations inevitably produce) and is incredibly good at establishing an emotional connection across paper-and-ink barriers, which is probably what you're looking for if you pick up this book.
This book is accurate in so many ways. I found it in my early 20's and I use it to this day - this would be a great astrological book to recomment to anyone who has been hesitant to buy one.
Linda Goodman is amazing. I can see why she is so widely referenced and exalted. Wow. Just, Wow. I never had so many insights in one book about myself and others close to me. Pairings that I actually had no personal interest in besides curiosity were just as illuminating as the ones I was eager to read (the combinations of myself and past relationships, for example). Really helpful also for those studying astrology (like myself) who are new to the study of astrology.
The book has general info on signs but goes further by explaining your relationship to other signs.
The one flaw in this book, though you can read around it, is that it first gives a brief overview of say cancer pisces, then cancer man, pisces women, and then cancer woman pisces man.
The disadvantage to this is when I want to know about same sex relationships, wether they be romantic or non romantic you are stuck reading the much shorter overview.
I also like that her tone is loving of every sign and you couldn't really pick what her sign was without looking it up.I would recommend this book with two big thumbs up!!
This was strictly okay.
I mean, it is very interesting read in itself, but I would say that relationships undergo many dynamics and they can't be straight-jacketed...
There are various things that influence our behaviour towards one another -- environment, our health, our circumstances, our finances, our mood, our genes, our upbringing...
So, well, I wouldn't make this a Bible for people to refer to make out if their relationship would work or not...Having said that, there is no harm in reading it as you are warned about some of the roadblocks you might face in your relationship journey.A good read.PS: I read only what was relevant to me at that point in time.
By-and-by, I stopped doing that too.
I have a really old edition of this book, and I use it every time I'm in the process of creating characters for my stories.
The character traits for each star sign, and how they interact with each other, are absolutely fascinating and if I need increase the conflict b/w hero and heroine, I can use the star sign traits to assist.
I'm a Leo and my partner is Aquarius - opposites on the karmic wheel.
Linda's comments on this relationship are spot on.
Love Signs is the only writing reference book I've used consistently over the years.
I love it!
I was maybe 14 or 15 when I pulled this off my mother's bookshelf. I found the chapter concerning myself and the boy I was in love with: Aquarius-Gemini. It was lovely. It was moving. It was true. It made reference to Peter Pan and The Little Prince, two books that would earn my enduring affection. I've since become skeptical of astrology. Perhaps I fear ridicule or just plain being wrong. Still, it's a significant book in my life. I'll honor the enchantment cast.
THE go-to book for relationships. Plus she's delves a little into the elements and gives a nice basic intro into how they work together.
Great reference for romance writers... I like her take on how various personalities mesh or come into conflict. Helpful and inspiring for character creation.
Thus, the Pisces section contains a mere two entries: the Pisces/Pisces Relationship and Pisces Woman/Pisces Man. Strangely, unlike some erotic astrology books that dissuade the reader from starting a relationship with a member of a conflicting Sun sign, Goodman asserts that any pairing can be compatible; the two halves only need to undertake more work to understand each other.
In this book's case, the heteronormativity and gender binarism sometimes combine with the sentimental writing style to produce passages such as this, from the Aries Woman/Aries Man section:This woman never failed to cry, as a child, when she read about the Prince charging bravely into the woods to find his Princess and awaken her from her lonely slumber with the kiss of True Love.
A must have for any lover of astrology!
This book is my "bible".When I was younger and I was dating men, I would go to the star sign combination and have a read about the kind of relationship we would have...
very spot on for me.Even if it's not about love you are enquiring about, Linda Goodman provides a thorough explanation of each star sign and what they are like as a child, woman and man.
Such a shame Linda goodman is no longer with us, she would be amazing to see in real life.
I love this book!
My favourite astrology book, Linda Goodman takes a mystical approach to describing the signs and how they interact with each other. I bought this book 15 years ago and I still refer to it from time to time. I've found it to always be illuminating.
Great reference. Yes, it’s outdated and rather simplistic in that it focuses only on Sun signs, but it’s great nonetheless. It’s funny, too. Easy to read.
Linda Goodman is a great writer! Maybe her writing style stuck on me because we're both Aries sun? This book blew the lid off of things that I didn't know and confirmed a lot as well. The Aries woman/Scorpio, Pisces & Cancer man was spot on! I highly recommend this book for the beginner astrologers and the non astrologers.I'm off to collect the rest of her books!

Human condition has always interested me, but I did not know much about it before reading this book (along with Linda Goodman's Sun Signs).
I don't apply astrology in getting a reading on people now, but it certainly gave me enough insight to know what to look for.As for the translation, I enjoyed the work immensely because of the author's witty and lyrical prose.
Minor quibbles aside, I will recommend this book to anyone interested in basic astrology, especially regarding personality traits and relationships.I am not in the practice of giving stars to my reads, but for this I will make an exception.
She's not quite straightforward in that you wont hear the "don't date a Pisces (which I should NOT) because they are bad for you" sort of message, but she does a beautiful job of exploring the nuances of love compatibility between the signs through storytelling and humorous anecdotes.
PROS: The fact that she explores man/woman compatibility as well as general compatibility of each sign.CONS: Goodman is a bit kooky(Aries, I believe), so if you cannot tolerate a bit of wackiness in your astrologist, this is NOT the guide for you!
When I saw the author's name, I knew I had to read it.Right before I began 5th grade, I read Goodman's first book on astrology--an interesting portrait of late '50s/early '60s gender roles through the lens of astrology--and enjoyed her straightforward, prescriptive prose style so I was expecting much the same with this later book.
I was not disappointed.Goodman includes more esoteric theories and religious beliefs here, which occasionally intrude upon her descriptions and imagined scenarios.
And it is the scenarios that I find the most interesting.
They occasionally border on cliché, but the humor that is infused in them makes them more palatable.
Ya, no hay real asidero para confirmar la astrología (o eso dicen), aunque QUÉ CIERTA es la carta astral (yo me la saqué y uf), así que quién sabe.
este libro es UNA DELICIA, jajaja.
Y yo me lo creo, me lo creo completo.Lo compré en mi adolescencia, lo que no fue fácil, porque igual era caro.
Yo lo disfruté tanto.Desgraciadamente, un buen día el libro desapareció.
Me imagino que alguien más se vio fascinado/a por él, jeje.
quisiera que hubiera escrito más cosas todavía :)
This truly doesn't belong in the "myths/folklore" bookshelf. However, I don't have any other astrology books & don't plan on buying any more. This book was purchased when I was younger, much more open-minded and getting high just about every day. I never took this stuff seriously, but had fun reading it anyhow. Can't remember the last time I turned to it. At any rate, one of those books I should probably get rid of but haven't yet.Linda Goodman is certainly entertaining. Full of shit, but entertaining ;)
Linda Goodman is enough to make more thoughtful astrologers tear their hair out. Yet she is the exact representative of a particular approach to astrology that accounts in large part for astrology's enduring popularity in the modern age. She is a very fun writer, writing with enthusiasm and with a perfect instinct for character description. This book is all heart, and while some might criticise its lack of a more intellectual approach, that is precisely the point of Linda Goodman's way of going about things. A fun read, informative and thought-provoking.
Not what I was looking for, but filled a need for knowledge nonetheless.
This book doesn't accurately explain Sun Signs.
It does for a general view, yes, but when it comes to people, you really need to make a birth chart for them, interpret each, and then synastry - it's all in the details!
On the other hand, I will give credit for being fabulously funny, witty and romantic.
It really did fuel my interest in astrology, and bettered my understanding by giving examples of the character of each sign as human beings, along with the season they prefer and the body part they affect.
This is the first book I read on astrological compatibility, and I can't say enough good things about it. If you're interested in how two signs match up at a very basic level this book is for you. One warning: There's a lot more going on than just the sun sign, so if you find that the relationship you're interested in doesn't seem to be going the way the book says it might, dig a little deeper into the charts or have a professional astrologer do a synastry (compatibility) chart for you and your beloved.
I have been a fan of Linda Goodman since I read the sunsign book written by her. The detailing is much more in the love sign book, with a compatibility possiblilities of each sun sign with another. The glimpses of poetry from her book venus trines at midnight which is partially included in this book is a treat to read. And one must truely appreciate her observation about people from the relative sun signs which makes the reading more indulging. A must read for those who like discovering about people, more than what meets the eye via their sun signs.
Although I only read about the 23 combinations involving my sun sign and my moon sign with other signs, this was awesome.
It didn't seem like an Aries perspective but a neutral beautiful description.
One thing I do not like is she's too much focusing on the sun signs.
Why can't it just be a Sagittarius or Pisces zodiac sign you can interpret as for Sun/Moon/Ascendant/Venus and so on.
Because Sun only tells a vague part of the story, who you present yourself to the outside world.
That was a bit annoying how she focused too much on the sun sign pattern.
I chose "currently reading" because it's a reference guide to astrological relationship signs. It cross references, for instance: GEMINI Woman TAURUS Man -OR- GEMINI Man TAURUS WomanWhenever people spot this book on my bookshelf, they're always intrigued. Even if you don't believe in the stuff, it's entertaining.Linda Goodman (the astrologist/author) has another book I reference from time to time: Linda Goodman's Sun Signs (describes each sign as man, woman, child, boss, employee).
