https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351023.The_Worst_Witch
This is the perfect book for young reluctant readers.It’s engaging, fun, fast-paced and actually a really great story.
There’s a magic school, great friendship, antiheroes and a series of unfortunate events.
To me there’s no surprise that this series was brought to the screen—twice: the first time from 1998 to 2001 and a second time in 2017.
I honestly don’t have anything bad to say about it, except maybe that it’s rather short, but that’s one of the elements that makes it appealing to reluctant readers.
Short and fun, with some dept also.
There is Ethel, the teacher’s pet, Mildred’s friends Maud and Enid, lots of fun spells and a Halloween festival in which Midred and her classmates have to put on a broomstick display, with predictably disastrous consequences…This version of the book is larger than usual, with full colour illustrations.
The book itself is not particularly long (about 112 pages) and has short chapters and lots of fun illustrations.
The first in a series, this is a beautiful gift version and is perfect for any child’s bookshelf either to read alone (depending on reading age, once children are confident with chapter books) or to share alone as a perfect Halloween read.
The Worst Witch is the first book in the series and details the troubles of Mildred Hubble, a pupil at Cackle's Academy and one who always seems to encounter misfortune, but somehow manages to save the day and in the process save herself, not just from a bully names Ethel, but also the likes of the ever uncompromising Miss Hardbroom.
Once you read this book, you definitely want to read the others in the series.
For me it was a book that I used to read just before falling asleep and I suspect that is what many children still to today - and with good reason.
It would have been ever so much fun.This book would have received 5 stars from my 7 & 8 & possibly 9 year old self.
Mildred is a clumsy student who seems to be in constant trouble, but of course there’s a very happy ending.I thought the illustrations were lovely and fun.
I’d love to read the rest of this series but only if I can find a way to borrow them.
My thanks go to the Goodreads group A Thrilling Term at Goodreads: The Girls’ School-Story group; I found this book on their bookshelves.

The chapters are all short (each can be read in about five to seven minutes) and while some of the vocabulary is a bit advanced (I wouldn't call this a beginning/easy reader), it's perfect for read-aloud (especially if you can muster a British accent, haha!) In this first book in the "Worst Witch" series, Mildred Hubble is in her first term at Miss Cackle's Academy.
Although I think the story is cute and is definitely great for kids who might be interested in Harry Potter but aren't quite ready for that level of book yet, I personally wasn't too captivated by it.
A simple and charming story of a student witch, with fun illustrations by the author. I've never read these, and thought we'd give it a try as a read-aloud. The kids loved it, and so did I, but it was very short!
Just from reading a couple of pages as a Kindle sample I can already see how much of HP (possibly) came from this: from the school for witches that sits amidst a forest, to the flying classes taught the first day of school, the black school uniforms, the pets that are allowed just because they are tradition (cats and owls), the witch/wizarding exam they have to take in the fifth year (OWLs for Harry Potter, Witch Certificate in this book), and so much more.
I'm excited to read more 'classic' fantasy novels that influenced Harry Potter.
I have no idea why I haven't read this as a kid but better late than never, right? :)I really enjoyed it but I definitely think it would be more appreciated by a younger audience.
The Worst Witch follows the adventures of Mildred Hubble, a witch studying at Miss Cackle's Academy.
Mildred is a complete scatterbrain and keeps doing the wrong thing, though not by mistake.
Once, after the rivalry went terribly wrong, Mildred was blamed.
Upset, she tries to go home, and ends up stumbling over a plot to harm the school.
She foils it, and becomes a heroine again!The book is very simplistic but humorous and I probably would have enjoyed this more if I had read this as a small child.
Reading as an adult, I just ended up being bored by all the plot holes.
Rezension kommt am 23. August 😗 Aber: Es eignet sich perfekt zum Vorlesen & zum Erstlesen auch wenn ich bei ein paar Wörtern der Meinung war, dass die viele Kinder einfach in ihrem Alter noch nicht kennen. Dennoch ein super süßes, kleines kurzes Buch, was ich Kindern oder Eltern nur empfehlen kann 💙
Loved this book as a kid in the good old days before Harry Potter turned up. I never seemed to do well at school and I always felt for Mildred, kindred spirits and both of us pretty. How she deals with the nasty Ethel is brilliant, recently read this to my daughter and Ethel's comeuppance still made me laugh.
Dumbledore > CackleThe Worst Witch is a sweet delightful children's series from the 70's where delightful and artistic British girl Mildred Hubble finds herself at a magical academy for witches.
She knows nothing about being a witch and is trying to find her life around Miss Cackle's Academy with the help of her new friends Maud Spellbody & Enid Nightshade.I've seen half of the first season on Netflix and I could not handle how adorable and wonderful this show was to watch.
Major kudos to the casting director of the Netflix shows because the characters look exactly like illustrations in the book.
"Beat on it, Delilah!" I'm glad I finally read the book, but I think the movie was better. Perhaps I'm biased. I've seen it a million times in the past 30... 30? Damn... Yeah, 30 years. Anyway, I still watch it every Halloween because there is just too much awesomeness in it to let a year go by without at least one viewing. Back when I had a VHS copy we recorded off HBO, it was prefaced with the best opening in the history of television. (Don't argue with me here; you won't win. I slam dance to
Here: The greatest musical number in the history of ever.Let that settle in.Sadly Tim Curry wouldn't find work for two years after he made this, and you can tell by his facial expression at the 15 second mark that even he knows this is probably going to run his career headfirst into the tenth level of hell.
(Yeah, I know that's from a different movie, but where else am I going to get a chance to put it on here?) No, I don't slam dance to this; the beat's all wrong.
I first read this series when I was seven years old and now 13 years later I decided to re read.I loved it just as much as the first time, though maybe less just for the fact that I’m not a child obsessed with all things witches anymore( kinda) but it was still a fun read.I loved Mildred, the school and of course Tabby( who I named my cat after) she is a tabby cat aswell.
This doesn’t seem to be a big deal but I’m telling you now it’s harmful to kids.
Mildred is a witch but she is not very good at it. In the end however she's able to save the whole school from the evil witches' attack.The book is a nice quick read but also very predictable. It's a bit of a Harry Potter version for younger kids, but mothing I enjoyed immensely.
One of the many Easter eggs in Kraken. Most recruits at the magical police squad's training center refer to it as "Hogwarts". But a few call it "Miss Cackle's" and look superior when the others don't get the reference.
I like to call this series the female Harry Potter and yes, I am aware that this came out a good 2- 3 decades before JKR's smash hit.However this is still a delightfully charming, albeit predictable series about She Neville............er I mean Mildred Hubble as she traverses through her years at Hogwarts...........I mean Cackle's Academy, as she learns to control her magical powers.Mildred is a clumsy child, very awkward, rather absent minded and is always in trouble.
Though she makes up for this through her creativity and tenacity.Mildred also somehow manages to get a Tabby cat, instead of the traditional Black cat, like everyone else.
Like all my favourite children's literature, this book is squarely on the side of the outcast. Disorganised, accident-prone witch Mildred and her plump, bespectacled friend Maud are smart, kind and generally awesome. My own mild dyspraxia, which vanished when I was about 14, made Mildred an especially helpful role model, and whenever I broke something or failed to achieve the expected result in a science practical I thought of her. I teach science these days so Murphy's message must have done its work = )
In Miss Cackles Schule gibt es keine neumodischen Eulen, da bekommen die Mädchen noch ordentliche schwarze Katzen (außer Mildred, ihre ist grau getiegert und so ungeschickt wie sie selber).
Es gibt auch einen weiblichen Snape (Miss Hardbroom), die Zaubertränke lehrt und von allen Schülerinnen gefürchtet wird, obwohl sie einen netten Kern zu haben scheint (wie Snape).
Nun gibt es eine Neuverfilmung und da ziehe ich mir die Bücher eben noch mal rein.Mit knapp 100 Seiten in sehr großer Schrift mit Bildern hat man dieses Buch in 30 min durch, was für schnell zwischendurch oder vor dem Schlafengehen.
I was getting into a reading slump so I wanted to pick up something that would help. This book loked fun and easy to read and it had cool illustrations. Even though it's very childish it definitely helped against the reading slump.
This is such a lovely little book! it made me feel happy the moment I picked it up! never mind it being a good book for children this 30 something loved it!!
Being older and so much wiser I obviously have a better judgement on what makes A Good Book than the 7yo.*snort*Okay, in all reality I am more likely to choose a classic or book that has stood The Test of Time and is age appropriate.
A moral of loyalty, practice-makes-perfect, and doing-the-right-thing, played lightly through the narrative for a heart-warming ending.I think I'll grab Book 2 for tonight *grin*.Harry Potter?Yes, it's an awful lot like Harry Potter.In part, it's because of the "school story" tradition, based on a classical British Boarding School, but also the potion class, broomstick riding, meandering staircases, and owls as familiar.
She couldn't walk from one end of the corridor to the other without someone yelling at her, and nearly every night, she was writing lines or being kept in…(pg 3) Mildred does have a best friend, Maud Moonshine, and a class enemy, Ethel Hallow.This first book in the series begins with a very important event at Miss Cackle's Academy.
Turned back to a girl by Miss Hardbroom, Ethel tells Mildred she will be sorry for what she did.Sure enough, a Halloween program is planned and Mildred's class is to present a program showing what they can do with their broomsticks.
Mildred Hubble attends Miss Cackle’s Academy for Witches and is probably the worst student the school has ever seen.
How will Mildred ever earn her Witches Higher Certificate when she is the worst witch to ever attend Miss Cackle’s Academy?
It’s easy to compare this to another book about a magic boarding school, but I don’t think this would have such a wide appeal as Harry Potter.
I think The Worst Witch is mainly for children, and doesn’t have the same complexity as J.K. Rowling’s books.
I loved the simplicity of The Worst Witch, and I think it would be a great book for children this Halloween.
The book tells the story of Mildred Hubble, who to say the least is nearly always in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Mildred can not seem to get any of her spells right and even ends up turning her worst enemy into a pig instead of the intended toad.
Will Mildred survive the her first year?Likes:A great character to have in this type of story.
The story is always evolving and there is something always on going to keep the reader interested with the book.
Mildred can never seem to get anything right and it was fun to see how each situation Mildred got herself into turned out in the end.
yesterday my friend and i went to booksale (she doesn't like reading but miraculously this time she initiated buying a few books) and imagine my surprise when i saw this as i was browsing through piles and piles of books.
and i cannot believe i forgot about this book when i'm sure this was one of the books that got me into reading.
nostalgia* okay i'm digressing so back to the present: i bought this book excitedly and i read it in about ten minutes or so.
now, it seems just okay.however, since i ENTIRELY forgot about this book until yesterday, i noticed how similar (srsly) this book is to harry potter.
Although she tries hard, Mildred usually manages to mix up her spells and generally cause trouble.
When she turns Ethel (who happens to be a very bright but rather unkind witch)into a pig her troubles really do begin.
In order to get her back for turning her into a pig, Ethel enchants Mildred's broom and causes mayhem during a broomstick performance at the Halloween celebration.
Feeling rather embarrassed Mildred decides to run away but on her way she comes across a coven of evil witches that wish to turn everyone at the school into frogs.
I love the Worst Witch with a PASSION. I love Mildred's scrapes! Miss Hardbroom's tight bun! Mildred's tabby! Horrid Ethel! I first read this when I was about seven, on a rainy day by the sea, and if I'm honest I choose Mildred over Harry any day.
***3.5 STARS*** this year i've started collecting classic children's books and ones i used to love as a child. this is definitely one i enjoyed back then and it is still great now! the illustrations were also lovely.
