https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5062.Jackdaws
Through this we are able to see the fear and horror facing those who worked behind enemy lines, yet also their courage and resourcefulness, and in this respect I can highly recommend this novel.On the other hand, I did find some aspects of "Jackdaws" a little too far-fetched.
Anyone who enjoys a fast-paced story set during the Second World War will enjoy this novel.
Sementes de VerdadePegaram em armas, planearam ataques, trataram dos feridos...Preservaram a sanidade numa guerra gerada por sementes de loucura!Lutaram numa guerra de homens, sem contudo deixar de ser mulheres!Mulheres corajosas!...Grandes Guerreiras que merecem ser recordadas com o maior respeito e admiração!É um 4+++Leiam! É uma ficção com sementes de verdade!!!
Reading Jackdaws, like other Ken Follett titles I've read, is kind of like riding a moped.
It's a lot of fun, but all the same you really don't want to be seen enjoying it.
For me reading Follett is one of those guilty pleasures, where you know it isn't the best writing out there, the characters aren't particularly well developed, and in general the book isn't ground breaking or noteworthy in any way -- and yet you keep reading, because secretly it's kind of fun.If you like WWII fiction with lots of action and don't mind stereotypical characters, then Follett's your man.
"Exactly fifty women were sent into France as secret agents by the Special Operations Executive during the Second World War. Of those, thirty-six survived the war.
Ken Follett is best known for his sweeping epics Pillars of the Earth, World Without End, and Fall of Giants which span decades, but in Jackdaws he manages to apply his same talent for engrossing description into a story that takes 10 days.
The novel is centered around Flick (aka Felicity) who leads a group of all female secret agents into occupied France to disable an all too important telephone exchange.
It's emotional, heart-pounding, and incredibly descriptive.
JACKDAWS takes the standard D-Day spy stories but twists it by focusing on the Historical female agents, or, as they were known, something of the unsung heroes.
This particular tale focuses on a female agent who is trying to knock down the phone lines of an SS HQ but needs to do it as cleaning ladies.
All of these women are untrained and have to do a crash course in spycraft.
Thereafter, the next half of the book entails the women parachuting into France, some of them getting caught or killed and then moving in on the mission.
When he wrote EYE OF THE NEEDLE the market was less saturated with WWII stories.
Jackdaws could have been a very good World War II novel.
It's about a group of women operatives (most of them criminals or malcontents) who are given a chance to serve their country and clear their records if they undertake a dangerous mission in France to blow up a Nazi communications center just as the D-Day invasion begins.
Yes, the premise is very much a female Dirty Dozen.
There were just too many sex scenes.
And the sad thing is those scenes were entirely unecessary.
Follett has caved to the contemporary temptation of explicit sex.
I picked this up on holiday because I'd read through the books I'd brought and this was the only one among the English-language secondhand paperbacks at the hotel I thought I could stand.
The only real question is exactly who will die along the way, and I didn't care about or believe in any of the characters enough to get too anxious about their survival, and most of the deaths were pretty predictable.
If all you require is adrenalin and you don't care about character or writing or, well, anything else, it's adequate junk reading.
Lots of eye rolling.When the author wasn't writing amateur porn and got around to writing the spy part of his spy novel, things didn't pick up as much as you'd think.
It's best described as a formulaic cliche: bad guys on the trail of the good guys (or girls in this case) with lots of close calls, but everything turns out just pat (a little too pat) in the end.
You know, to pull at the reader's heart strings and give the plot that necessary hint of realism.
Bleh.A good novel keeps the reader guessing.
The French resistance is in full gear, expecting the imminent invasion, even if they don’t know the exact date.
The SOE (Special Operations Executive) in London has determined to support the French resistance in its efforts to sabotage a key target which, in turn, will greatly aid the success of the invasion.
Most of them are misfits in one fashion or another – comparisons to the Dirty Dozen are not inaccurate.One mark of an excellent thriller story is the quality of the primary antagonist and here, the character of Major Dieter Franck, working on Field Marshal Rommel’s staff, is a wonderfully drawn bad guy.
The danger is real, and not all characters survive but the ending is deeply satisfying.Highly recommended.
Em primeiro lugar começo por dizer que não só o autor, como também o livro me surpreenderam.Este foi o primeiro livro que escolhi para dar início às leituras de Ken Follett, pois nunca tinha lido nada deste autor.
Fiquei um pouco de pé atrás quando li a sinopse, pois pensei ser mais um de tantos livros que iriam descrever espiões e situações horríveis passadas durante a Segunda Grande Guerra.
Com a Segunda Guerra Mundial como pano de fundo, somos levados a "presenciar" algumas das situações mais horrendas e sufocantes que jamais poderão ter acontecido na história da humanidade.O que poderia ser uma história aborrecida, tornou-se num turbilhão de emoções e aprendizagens.
Follett has a needless preoccupation with the objectification of women which seems to serve no other purpose than as an attempt to villainise the killer or else add some sort of racy element that the unnecessary sex scenes fail to provide - they read like a piece of GCSE English coursework that just about scrapes a C grade.
It’s also obvious that Follett was attempting some shade of free indirect style by sporadically adopting different characters’ voices, but the female perspectives are especially cringey.
Follett endows the Jackdaws with stereotypically ‘girly’ lines in an attempt to emulate the female mindset.
This is another historical fiction by Ken Follett. It was published about 15 years ago. This time, it's a about the women of the French Resistance who attempt to help the allied evasion by going after a highly-guarded military target. One of the women is gay man who works as a cross-dressing performer and identifies as a woman. The author calls her female for the whole book.
Follet come al solito costruisce una piccola storia durante la ‘grande storia’ che è un gioiello.
The plot sounded intriguing though, so I decided to give it a shot.
It ended up being one of the better WWII stories that I have read.
There was enough background information for me to underdstand the historical reference of the story, but it was balanced by a well developed plot.
I like reading stories from a non-American perspective since it is a viewpoint that I am not normally exposed to.
While this is a fictional story, I think it serves as an interesting view into the role of the French resistance during the war.
My only gripe is that the ending seemed a bit contrite.
That's the last time I take a book recommendation from the head cashier at Barnes.
The fact that she also recommended The Wedding by Nicholas Sparks should have been warning enough.
It was not a story about women fighting in the war effort so much as women arguing with each other and hooking up, sometimes with one anither, a Nazi with a twisted love of torture and Judas doors (No, really, we get interogation is about betrayal).
I'll always have a special place in my heart for Pillars and World Without End, but no lasting love for Jackdaws.
With D-Day rapidly approaching, the Nazis are actively trying to quash the French resistance.
Meanwhile, Britain's Special Operations branch is working hard to supply the resistance with intelligence, supplies and agents.
Felicity "Flick" Clairet is one of England's most effective operatives in northern France.
Having failed in an assault on the Nazis' main European telephone exchange, she regroups in England for another attempt, this time with an all-female team that will infiltrate the exchange under the guise of a French cleaning staff.
Unfortunately, finding female agents fluent in French proves impossible and Flick resorts to crash-training nonprofessionals for the task.
Ken Follet achieves the nearly impossible task of creating genuine suspense about an event that is well-known, with fresh characters, clever plotting, and surprising twists on an old story. You will enjoy this book on a long plane flight, or just sitting out on your porch during the lazy days of summer. I always enjoy Ken Follet's approach to history--crackerjack pacing, strong dialogue, and a deep desire to entertain. If only all writers cared as much about their audience's enjoyment as Follet does, TV would become obsolete.
Second, the plot: we already know the outcome, yes D-Day happened and yes it was a success, so instead the plot uses blunt torture, random sex quickly leading to love and throws in some homosexuals and queers to make it more diverse.
It is certainly not worthy of these amazingly brave women!There was one quote that moved me: My dear Papa, I am doing well in school although Dr Richter’s classroom has been bombed.
Flick Clairet is one of a select group of women helping the French Resistance during the final years of the Second World War. She is married to a French man, the leader of the resistance in Reims and in the opening sequence we see a group of them fail to overcome a telephone exchange that is crucial to the Germans.
He even gets terrible migraines when he has to torture people so Follett manages to create a villain who is still believable and not a caricature of the evil Nazi.After the failure of the team, Flick is determined to get back to the exchange and blow it up, creating a critical gap in communications at the same time as the Allied forces invade.
The problem I have with historical fiction is that I always figure there must be plenty of amazing true stories from the same time period, so why not read about those?
It reads like a movie, it's entertaining, and it's a bit suspenseful.
Maybe just to show that she's human and makes mistakes, too.Anyway, I wasn't blown away by the book, but it's easy reading and the kind of book that's good for passing the time.
Since Ken Follett is such a prolific writer, I'll probably pick up more of his books from the library from time to time.
É um romance sobre a segunda guerra mundial, e que conta a história de quatro de mulheres que tem a coragem de porem em risco a sua própria vida para destruir uma central telefónica alemã.
Felicity é uma agente secreta, casada com Michael que pertence a resistência, que vive em Paris e possui a missão de destruir uma central telefónica.
Não querendo desistir, ela tem a ideia de líder uma operação só de mulheres.
" Nome de código Leoparda" foi um livro que me surpreendeu, apesar de ser obra que fala de guerra, aborda também a coragem e o sacrifício.
3.75
J'ai absolument adoré le dernier tier du roman où les choses s'accélèrent et que le rythme devient réellement haletant !Une jeu dangereux du chat et de la souris entre un officier allemand et la chef d'équipe du réseau corneille, chacun essayant de déjouer les plans de l'autre.Il m'a semblé quand même qu'il y avait quelques invraisemblances dans le récit.
De plus, à certains moments, j'avais l'impression que l'auteur ne savait pas exactement quelle attitude adopter surtout par rapport au comportement des femmes.

Como é habitual, Ken Follet nunca desilude nos seus livros.
Com uma história intrigante, baseada em factos verídicos, e tão importantes para a nossa história.Sem duvida cinco estrelas é pouco para conseguir classificar este livro, não só pela história mas também pela qualidade da escrita.
Cada vez mais apaixonada pelos livros deste senhor.Por última, mais um aplauso pela forma como ele descreve o poder que as mulheres têm em transformar o mundo, que apesar de dominado em maioria por homens naquela altura (e, também nos dias que correm), as mulheres desempenharam um papel crucial para o fim da II Guerra Mundial.
Quite good, story line keeps you engaged making it a quick read. Yet another reference to Ravensbruck, a part of WWII history that should receive more attention.

I am an avid reader.
This is one of the few books that he brought into our married bookshelves, and that's because he had to read it for a class.
I read anything I can get my little hands on, so I grabbed this one up.I loved it.
I loved the main characters, the gathering of the team, the constant action, all that friction....
I love tough, unique, women characters and this was full of them.
I feel like it'd be a great movie- spy/war stuff for the guys and several little romances and girl power for the gals.
I don't think I'm cut out for thrillers and espionage. All throughout this book, I kept grimacing and wincing and putting it down because I simply couldn't stand the suspense. In a two-hour movie, I'm dandy; but I don't have the nerves for a 400+ page book. I guess that means this was a good read? Depends on your perspective, right?
