https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1611810.The_Blue_Umbrella
I got the book from Ruskin bond himself.. Autographed.. On its launch in dehradoon. I was 11 then..I teasured it ..still do. The book is simply realistic and set in the place i was grown up.
It has a simple story about a girl name Binny and her love of a blue silk umbrella which she spots and obtains it from some picnickers in exchange for a necklace which had a leopard's claw which was considered as good luck.
Ram Bharosa owns a shop in Binny's village and out of intense longing and jealousy of obtaining her umbrella, sets up a boy named Rajaram, then working in his shop to obtain the umbrella from Binny.
He then flaunts it to villagers and this time there is no guilt as he was gifted by Binny.On the other hand, Ram Bharosa obtains a bear claw which is even considered more lucky than a leopard's.
A lovely little story with very believable, very identifiable characters. And the end - the very best possible. I have not read a lot of Ruskin Bond. Would be reading a lot more soon.
I finished this book very quickly, opened goodreads.com thought about it for a few minutes and gave it a rating 3.
(Day over)The next day, when I woke up, there was a longing, some urge to be in a place which clearly seemed to be like Binya's surrounding in the book.
It's a kid's book, but a lot of human behavior is described plainly.
How a little girl becomes the better person by giving up her prized posession is a wonderfully crafted, heart warming climax.I couldn't live with giving a three star rating for this book.
I love this story....one of the reasons is that it is based on indians.....so when I read it I feel a bit similar to the characters.....their behaviour and the kind of fun they have together.....coz i have grown up in this place....so i know all this stuffs....well,,...its a very sweet story....those who are Mr. Bond's fans......u must read this...its a short but yet nice story...
If I have to sum this book in one word then it would be 'beautiful'.
Only Ruskin Bond can pen down such a touching story in few pages.
One day, she meets picnickers and saw an alluring bright blue umbrella.
Overall, this umbrella brings various adventure in the life of Binya.
This book has a very good ending, which I have not expected and at this point, this book becomes a mature reading.I am really touched by this book, I am so glad that I read this book.
I am still lingering with the thoughts of this book.
A very short story, simple story line. Meant for kids but nothing stops me from enjoying it.
Feel good happy simple short kid's story.
Ah! There is nothing much I want to say about this one. A Simple and pretty thing.
"A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its loveliness increases; it will never Pass into nothingness; but still will keep A bower quiet for us, and a sleep Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing.
Here's why:You know that book you always knew of but never read?
And then, along comes someone who not just asks you whether you've read it but actually puts it into your hands, gently, quietly, in the middle of work, without anybody noticing that's what you swapped?
This book is a thing of beauty.
You can never know what I mean if you don't.Oh and one more thing: Pass it on so that it becomes  everyone's umbrella!
An eloquently written, lovely mesmerising story.There's so much relatable for everyone, the characters, the place, and situations.
The narration of the place brings aroma of the hills to you-if ever you've been to hills you'd understand what I mean.
Smooth flow of the story and here it is associated with the language been used.
I (as a writer) generally seek to get an embellished form of a language but the author Ruskin Bond shows how a simple written book can achieve all the parameters of a good writing in literature.
loved the book.Would suggest it to all.
Simplicity is the best sophistication. Ruskin Bond proves the same again in this short read. What can I say! The story is simple. The characters are simple. Their traits are common and general. But, the art of storytelling is exceptional. Human emotions- innocence, envy, kindness, sadness, disgust are brilliantly captured in just a few pages. That's the magic of Ruskin Bond. Worth, worth read.
Few authors and books has the magic to transport you to childhood and The Blue Umbrella is one such book.
I started it as a part of reading challenge and rereading the book reminds me of the days I enjoyed as a child.
In less than 65 pages Ruskin Bond teaches us lessons of love, greed, sacrifice and how a kid can be happy with little things they have.
The illustration by Archana Sreenivasan adds beauty to the book and captures the picturesque village, innocent Biniya and grumpy Ram. Now I want to dig again into all the books by Ruskin Bond :)
Read my review of the book onhttps://pgalmora.wordpress.com/2016/0...
A feel-good story that fills your heart with emotions.Ruskin Bond uses tense to great effect here. The last chapter(quite small for a chapter but it still is one) is written in present tense and the previous ones are in past. It feels a little like living the story towards the end because of this.We need such idealistic stories to remind ourselves what we people really are: social beings who thrive only when we are sharing and accepting of everyone.
3.5
Ruskin bond never disappointed me.He took me through my childhood memory once again.The blue umbrella tells story about 3 people and an umbrella.
Happiness is re-reading books from your childhood. Binya is one of my fav girl's.
Ruskin Bond is the warm blanket in a reader's cold night. His way of spinning simple stories around simple characters has no words worthy enough to praise. I loved every part of this book, as expected.
a simple short story reminding you of how good things will happen to you if you are good towards others
I can read Ruskin Bond on and on and on, never ever getting tried. His writings are so refreshing, cozy, simple and delightful that you simply want to flow away with them. This is the tale of a 10 years old village girl in the hills of Garhwal, Binya and her beautiful blue umbrella - the prettiest umbrella in the village. Her love for the umbrella and every others' desire to have it as their own bring out quite a few interesting events and incidents, which finally bring out the essence of compassion and friendship.
We all like Binya when we were child, little things means bigger than anything and eventually became our world.Author excelled in every manner and made you feel nostalgic.This is my first book of the author and I am excited to read more from him.
A short and good read with a moral.
boring
The simplicity of the story is the main and most important specialty of this book.
After reading this book, I can feel the warmth of the story pulsating within my heart with every beat it thrummed.
The delay in reading this will only prolong the time taken by you to understand the beauty of simplicity.The essence of a hillside village is explained so beautifully that one may find themselves surrounded by trees and hills if close their eyes.
The purity of a child's heart and beauty of a simple thing is the essence of this story.
This is my first Ruskin Bond read.
Considering his books are set in India I cant believe I have not read any of them earlier.
This book is suitable for children and adults.
The language is simple but the writing is so vivid I could picture myself on the green hills of Garhwal.
When Binya first sees the blue umbrella I could feel her fascination and desire to posses it followed by her pride in owning the umbrella.
She then has to deal with Ram Bharosa's greed and indignation.
The ending is not unexpected but is still touching and leaves one feeling happy.
A simple short story that touches the heart...
the scenes from the mountain life - the winds, the trees, the bilberry bushes, the forests, the hill slopes, the changing weathers - all provide the perfect backdrop...the story revolves around an unlikely object - an umbrella - and shows how we sometimes get fascinated even by the most trivial of things...
But what makes the story so special is an act of generosity by the little girl who not only gives away her precious possession - the umbrella - but to the one who was mean and tried to steal it from her...
her willingness to forgive and forget (something that is never easy) makes the act of kindness even more special...
and touches the heart...
I love reading short stories because only a master of his craft can write compelling short stories and I admire masters of any art.Before reading any writers larger works I prefer to read their shorter books.For a brief moment I was transported back to my mothers childhood because the character of Binya reminded me of her in her hometown of Garhwal.The short story teaches us a lot of things along with entertaining the reader. It shows how obsession of an object can change a person and his/her life.Everyone should read this at least once.
This is one of the best books that I have read in my life. It is actually a children's novel and I must say it is one of the best in this category. Ruskin Bond is a magician and his words are simple and subtle. His writing style is elegant and graceful.He is one of my favorite authors and dare I say he is the one of the best authors in India and the world. This book surely proves that, so go ahead have a read and I am sure you will love it.
It's an innocent beautiful short novella that should be read by adults and kids alike. If you have kids then you should read it to them. You can read my whole review by clicking on the following link:The Blue Umbrella
