https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582280.The_Hairy_Ape
It was only when avant- garde and expressionistic theatre developed popularity in the early eighties that I realised drama could be much much more than the "social-interest" plays I had seen till then.Ever since I read The Emperor Jones, I have been entranced by O'Neill's grip of the medium - how he could take the play beyond the narrow confines of the traditional stage.
This is not done in insult, however - the girl, a shallow socialite, is just overwhelmed by the hell-like atmosphere in the engine room where the men are stoking coal: and Yank's huge voice, foul language and aggressive behaviour doesn't help.
اونیل از اون دسته نمایشنامه نویس هاییه که توی دستور صحنه اش از توصیف های داستانی استفاده می کنه و حتی جزئی تری ن چیزها رو هم بیان می کنه.چیزی که توی این کار دوست داشتم جدای از بحث نقد جامعه شناختی اش پرداخت شخصیت از طریق حدیث نفس های فراوانش بود.
به خصوص پایان بندی کاملا تراژیکش و اون استهاله و گونه ای از مسخ که در انتها توی این شخصیت اتفاق افتاده بود طوری که دیگه چیزی که بود رو به فراموشی سپرده و چیزی که ازش می خواستن-چه هم قطارها،چه مردم، چه جامعه ی طبقاتی- رو پذیرفته بود.خوندن این نقد رو به ویژه بخشی که در مورد لایه ی پنهان اسطوره ای صحبت شده، پیشنهاد می کنم:http://www.aftabir.com/articles/view/...
I know, I know, another play for my Representative Plays class, and not your typical O'Neill, but, gosh darn it! It's good. Especially for prisoners. They really empathized with the lead character and had images and understandings of him that I would never have come up with in my own female/on-the-outside perspective. A great example of expressionism and O'Neill's unique way of interspersing techniques and theater forms that is truly pluralistic and thus American.
یک نمونه ی کامل و خوب از نمایشنامه در سبک مدرنیسم. کشش فوق العاده ی نمایش و نمادین بودن عناصر که اصلا تو ذوق نمی زدو همزاد پنداری مایی که اسیر قفس این دنیاییم با شخصیت ینک. خیلی خوبه کلا :)
কেনো যেনো ডারউইন সাহেবের পরতি এক ধরনের পরতিকরিয়া মনে হইলো বইটারে।ও'নীল সাব, অনেকে বলেন দেখলাম, এখানে শরেণী সংঘাত এবং পরোলেতাড়িতের পরিচয় নিয়ে ঘাপিয়েছেন। কিনতু, আমার মনে হইলো, এইখানে যে ইয়াঙক, সে আসলে বিবরতনের পরতিকরিয়া। ঐ পরশনটা আর কী, আমরা কী চাইলেই পারবো, পরকৃতিতে ফিরে যাইতে, নিজেদের ঐসব বাঁদরমুখো আতমীয়দের কাছে? রদাঁর চিনতকমূরতি যে বারবার ঘুরে ঘুরে আসছে, সেটাও এর সাথে যায় বলে মনে হইলো, মানে কেউ যতই পাশবিক হোক, সে-ও ত ভাবে, সে-ও ত ভাবে। হয়ত বিবরতন এখানে আসবার কথাই, কারণ তাততবিকরা অনেকেই ত একটি শ

Hairy-Ape is a terrific drama narrating a story of a defiant Yank whose hubris and bellicose attitude constitute a thin end of the wedge and consequent demise. The story is simultaneously historic and universal since the protagonist stands in my opinion for every-man with one's existential dilemmas and foibles. The tragedy of a soul that struggles to be self-reliant and defiant to one and all and who cannot deal with life's surprises because of terrible misapprehensions speaks to me in many ways than one. The ending is terrific and indelible. The play is a classic as far as I'm concerned.
"I'm an animal!!!!!" A lowly engine worker falls for a rich debutant. And is then violently reminded of his place in the societal structure.
An expressionist study of the damaging effects of industrialism. Much more interesting than O’Neill’s earlier naturalist plays.
Not sure why I gave this play three stars...I’m changing it to one bc I really didn’t like it. That probably makes me sound terrible but I just wasn’t a fan. Hearing other students read the parts out loud drove me kinda crazy hahahaha
Eugene O'Neill's The Hairy Ape works on multiple levels, making strong statements on class welfare and warfare, wanton commercialism, and man's basic need to simply belong.
O'Neill gets too caught up in message, and the drama suffers for it, becoming dull and preachy in the final scenes before reaching its odd, ironic conclusion.Finding a performance of The Hairy Ape to watch is a bit of a difficulty-- most of what is available online seems to be amateur JuCo productions more concerned with their own presentation than showing O'Neill's true intentions.
Finally, an O'Neill play I can get on board with. The Hairy Ape is a commentary on class in America and brutally points out how divided we are as a nation. Unfortunately, a lot of what O'Neill was saying pre-Depression still holds true. His use of expressionism heightens the drama without hitting the audience over the head.
I don't care that this is one of the most important plays in the history of the American drama. It is a terrible read.
Expressionism at its best with O'Neil exposing polarization between classes.
The protagonist of this expressionist play is a man named Yank, a member of the working class proletariat who wants to achieve self-fulfillment, which means getting the girl, living the American dream, becoming wealthy, comfortable and most of all socially successful among the dominant class.
O'Neill recognizes the same obstacles, but makes them about class mobility, stratification, and stagnation, which were of greater concern to liberals in the early twentieth century.The play is called expressionist because the protagonist, Yank, is not really an individual, he is a type--an Everyman's Proletariat industrial toiler.
I really didn't remember how heavy-handed this play is in promoting O'Neill's socialism, but I thoroughly enjoyed reading it again. I vaguely remembered the driving scene of the play in which Yank feels insulted by Mildred, and of course I remembered the end. However, the dialogue and many of the events throughout the play were fresh once again. Is Yank a monster? Could he have been anything else?
Interesting take on class segregation, but the patois made the play almost unreadable for me, a native French speaker. I could hear the firemen's accent, but it was almost too much. Also I really wonder how one suggests to stage the final act of the play. What a head-scratcher for generations of stage directors!!
The dialogue makes this really unpleasant to read (low level torture, really), and for supposed realism, the characters are very cartoonish.
This was seriously good. I found Yank's manner of speech a bit off putting initially as it's a specific dialect but realised it was essential to his character. It was heartbreaking though, the way he wants to belong and is not accepted by either humans or animals or at least that's how he feels. Also discusses class division and its ramifications on individual's psyche and satirises upper class morality
It is easy to be dismissive of this play as just "early O'Neill" or as simple-minded socialist allegory, but I think that that is to miss the point. What O'Neill manages to achieve here, in an admittedly-ham-fisted way at times, is to inquire into the role of the more bestial side of man in an increasingly sterile and technological world and at what cost do we squelch that part of ourselves.
SUPER WONDERFUL! hilarious, bitter. An expressionist play about the working class man and how dehumanised and demonised he is in a post industrial world. The hyperbolic nature of expressionist theatre couldn't be more of a perfect form to communicate this specific subject matter.
One of my favorite plays of all time. I love the way O'Neill writes.
Andare a teatro è anche una esperienza fisica, quindi assolutamente non paragonabile all'andare al cinema (che è facilmente sostituibile con le visioni home video); nessuna scappatoia ci viene dal teatro filmato il quale oltre a non avere logicamente una produzione sufficiente manca totalmente di sensorialità, altera completamente l'acustica diretta, sa irrimediabilmente di finto (fatta eccezione per le standup comedy, da sempre molto più televisive).
Già dal primo impatto si capisce che molta parte del testo è scritta in uno slang gustosissimo (ma direi abbastanza intuitivo per chi ha inglese upper intermediate), tutto da leggere a voce alta.Sì, la lettura di una play teatrale deve per forza avvenire a voce alta.
I actually liked it better than We.It's a short read, and incorporates thick accents when writing.
He's then sent to a prison, let go, and then he wanders into a zoo.
Ugly and caged?" So then he lets the ape loose for some reason and the ape attacks him and throws him into the cell.
While the ape is running free, the guy dies.
The themes are more profound than that, but I read this two years ago so I can't quite remember.
Anyways, I think I'd read it again.
It is a play telling the story of Yank who is a representative of the proletarian class. After he encounters Mildred ( representative of the bourgeoisie), he realizes his class and loses his identity that he thinks he has. Throughout the play, we witness how industrialism affects the proletarian, dehumanization of the lower class, a loss, and search of an identity. The language of the play is hard to read sometimes but after the first scene, one gets used to it.
This play was obviously written to be performed, specifically so Yank's actor knew how to say his lines. As such, the phonetic spelling made for a terrible reading experience. I feel like I would like this if I saw it performed, since I agree with the message O'Neill was going for, and the play was funny in an absurd, morbid way, but reading it was actually miserable because I dreaded the long, incomprehensible monologues from the main character.
NiceThe language is hard to read but a great story to read and a great ending. The Hairy Ape is good.
somewhat not easy to understand in one time so read it again to understand the message of the text...
“I wants to awaken yer bloody clarss consciousness. Then yer’ll see it’s ‘er clarss yer’ve got to fight, not ‘er alone. There’s a ‘ole mob of ‘em like ‘er, Gawd blind ‘em!”
Strange lingos aside, this is a powerful vision of a human cog in the vice of modernity, of a capitalist machine. The symbolism is powerful, if ancient, and the play works as theatre. Recommended.
I forgot how much I hated the character of Yank in this play until I started listening to it. I read it in college and found him a repulsive boob and nothing has changed that view.
