https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/899813.Paris_Trout
'Paris Trout' is a story from more than a half century ago, and takes place in a part of the world that was dragged into the future kicking and screaming.
He cannot adapt with the changing times, does not abide by updated laws that now protect people equally regardless of skin color.
His defense lawyer and wife are the two people who bare witness to his increasing insanity as he fights a changing world that won't tolerate the likes of him much longer.
Paris Trout: Slipping Into Darkness Paris Trout by Pete Dexter was chosen as a group read by members of On the Southern Literary Trail for February, 2018. This novel received the National Book Award for 1988. “Just as there are physical monsters, can there not be mental or psychic monsters born? The face and body may be perfect, but if a twisted gene or malformed egg can produce physical monsters, may not the same process produce a malformed soul? Monsters are variations from the accepted normal
In closing argument in trials of the most horrendous crimes, I often quoted what Steinbeck wrote of Cathy Ames in East of Eden.So I was not surprised at the violence of Peter Dexter's novel.
Ward Townes, the County Solicitor, charges Paris Trout with the murder of Rosie and the attempted murder of Mary McNutt who still carries four bullets in her body following the attack on her.
Dexter spins a tale of classic Southern Gothic Literature.Harry Seagraves, one of the town's lawyers, considered among the best in his profession, will defend Paris Trout.
It's positively an oxymoron!
Artistic porn.But as a novel, boy does it deliver the goods.
"Paris Trout" is one of those train, beach, bus reads...
The sequence leading to the end feels disjointed, almost betraying the reader-writer relationship earned so naturally from page two or three.And, well, the point in which the novel ends feels like a validation to the White Privilege we all wish to escape, bare witness everyday.
Deep shit.It's a true tragedy that after the court scene the novel never returns to its initial terror and raw artistic fervor.
So much better than Paris Hilton.But not quite as good as Paris France - it would be an unfair comparison.As for Paris Texas, yeah, better than the film, which I thought had a nice soundtrack but was a leetle bit on the wanky side, as many European-auteurs-in-America turn out to be.I could also say - not as thrillingly weird as Trout Mask Replica. But loads better than a trout. Comparisons are invidious, but I thought these were pretty vidious.
Should become a classic (hubby just now told me it was already a classic). I'm obviously way behind on this book. To say the least, I loved this book even if I have been living under a rock. Paris Trout may be one of the most hated characters in my reading experience.Rereading for Southern Literary Trail February 2018. You know it was good when you are willing to reread 2 months later.
It is 1949 in small town Georgia, and Paris fully expects to get away with murder.When he is stunned to learn that he will be tried in court, it begins to dawn on him that the old days are gone.
The little girl Rosie who is shot by Paris Trout had been bitten by a fox on her way home from buying bullets at Trout's general store.
And yet, it wasn't Rosie who went mad.Paris Trout later avows that he is poisoned but isn't talking about that fox or even about rabies.
This book was like watching a train wreck. You know there will be body parts and gore all over the tracks, but you can't look away. It's probably one of the most disturbing novels I've ever read, but I had to get to the end. Three stars for the writing, suspense and southern setting and dialogue, which the author got right, but no higher because of my intense dislike and fear of the main character. Being inside the mind of a psychopath is a scary place to be.
Paris is a racist, but the society he lives in is worse, because it purports to be kind and just, and it turns its head the other way.While no one could deny the sick perversity of Paris Trout, the thing that tore at me was the way he was shielded by the system, even when every single person who came in contact with him: prosecutors, judges, neighbors, employees, and his defense attorney, knew him for the savage demon that he was.
Eventually, it touches us.Paris Trout is not an easy read, but then stories about the evils of society seldom are.
Makes no sense, I know.Dexter knows how to write to keep you from putting the book down even when you don't want to know anymore because you hate all the characters who can't rise above thinking of themselves to do one right thing in their lives.
In fact, the one guy that seems like he might try to do right, is too young and naive for the reader to believe he can do any good.As for Trout, there's no good to him, Dexter makes clear throughout the book.
In Pete Dexter's award-winning tour de force set in the fictional Cotton Point, Georgia, Paris Trout, an unapologetic racist, commits a violent act at the novel's beginning.
The remainder of the novel presents how this single act impacts the town and Trout himself.The novel is divided in nine sections changing character's perspectives in each one.
The setting was described so well that you could easily imagine the small post-WW II town.
The reader should be warned that some of the acts of violence are so descriptive that you can't help cringing when you read them.
Authors often like the challenge, it seems, of opening our eyes to the reasons Evil does what it does.
Well Paris Trout is not such a case.
With this one it's more like: "There but for the fact that I'm not a nasty, racist sociopath..." Even the omniscient narrator is loathe to figure him out, and maybe that's for the best.Paris Trout is the bad guy.
The town's reaction to it all is what proves to be interesting.
Even his lawyer, the best drawn character in the book, would agree.Dexter also wrote Deadwood (made famous later by HBO) and the screenplay for Mulholland Falls.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
Hmm, this National Book Award winner written in 1988 and the movie made from it (starring Dennis Hopper) seem to be mostly forgotten and I understand why!!
It's a character study filled with highly unlikeable and uninteresting folks, namely Paris Trout who manages to commit the racially charged murder of a child without ever letting the reader in on why...
Well, I didn't much care what happened either, though in the end all the flat uninteresting characters here get pretty much what they deserve, just not nearly soon enough...
I've never been a fan of write your own ending books.
It took two tries to read this book.
The opening chapter portends nothing good.
I read gingerly, afraid of what was to come.
Once the first chapter was over, I found it easier to go on.
The back blurb leads one to expect some sort of John Grisham trial drama set in the Jim Crow era, but that is not what this book is at all, yet I am hard pressed to say what it IS about.
Paris Trout is a very well written character study of a disturbed, loathsome man and the small Southern town that finds it easier to tolerate him rather than confront him; a portrait of human nature at its most complicit and apathetic.
The insistent thought comes to me: Paris Trout is America, lawless and fucked up.Paris Trout the novel, though, can serve as a prototype of Southern Gothic fiction.
But Dexter does plenty of justice to his story, skilfully portraying a time and place that was as complacent as it was profoundly criminal, and although I find it well nigh impossible to step into the warped hateful brain of the average Dixie cracker, much less a cold-blooded killer like Paris Trout, Dexter manfully steps up to that challenge too.
I like Pete Dexter.
But I don't think he'd like me.
I don't know if likes people in general, and, given that he was once near-fatally pummeled by a bat-wielding mob of them, why should he?
This is a well-written account of people treating each other abominably.
Let me know if you find anything.
He got the National Book Award for this novel.
Conclusion: People are violent perverts.
Thanks for the news flash, Pete!
Thanks for backing him up, National Book Award voters!But then it's easy to dismiss such content as porn in disguise, and I feel I'm probably missing something.
Not a novel where you can be sure of anything, except that Paris Trout – surly smalltown Georgia storekeeper and money-lender with “a screaming look in his eyes” – is not going to be a man to cross.
“’You just ask...’ Mr Trout yelled.
“’Paris Trout gone took a damn gun and shot two coloured women.’”And in this segregated 1950s backwater, we might well expect a conventional portrait of racial bigotry, all-white juries, and well-meaning lawyers trying to make a difference.
The racism is endemic, but Paris Trout really doesn’t care about skin colour or status.
Def. buying this.If you're seeking a focal point for a healthy release of fear, rage, and hatred- I recommend picking this up, because Paris trout is an easy (justified) target for these and many more emotions.
Seems like I should give more than three stars to a winner of the National Book Award.
And I can understand why it won - the plot and pacing are excellent, characters different and interesting,feels like a real glimpse into life in a small, southern town in the first half of the 20th century...
Paris Trout, a respected community member shoots a young black girl for no reason.
His lawyer has a difficult time convincing him he has done anything wrong and the reaction of much of the town reinforces Trout's feeling that he is being unfairly prosecuted.
Meanwhile, Trout descends further into paranoia and madness.
accept for a moment that you are a racist in the same sense that a potato or a carrot or a radish grows below ground and out of sight.
it's unlikely i was born that way, like say being born right-handed or with white eyebrows.
Pete Dexter's exquisite novel takes us to where the potato, the carrot, and the radish are born and flourish and it squeezes racism's face to the surface like a festering boil of poisonous pus needing to be lanced.
most of it is ugly stuff told in a most wondrous way.
Paris Trout is such an amazingly well-written study of the human heart, it's almost difficult to remember that this is pure fiction. The characters of Harry, Hannah Trout and Paris are sketched with extraordinary grace and restraint. That said, the novel is a story of horrific events and terrible deeds in the deep South. It is not a story for the faint-hearted or for those who love in a saccharine world of good intentions and happy relationships. A book that taught me more about writing than any class.
I started this book reading the back and thinking it would be more about race relations, and racial identity in the south in the 50s. Unfortunately the black side of the story, the victims of the murder, disappeared in all but thought after the first chapter, and was replaced with a white only perspective, overly draped with cheap sex scenes and efforts at writing something profound. The more I read it, the more I was disappointed, hoping for something profound, anything, but left with very little except a wish that I hadn't wasted three days with it.
Amazing, visceral movement toward inevitable violence and an unexpected sacrifice. Beautifully told story that held me in something of a choke hold until the end.
I could not put this book down. Definitely noir, and some parts are not for the faint of heart. I think I will add Dexter to my must-read list.
The town's white population does not want to be seen siding with a black family against a white man, so, from then on they turn a blind eye towards Trout and allow him to bully the legal system.
The book is framed as the story of a very bad man terrorizing a sleepy town, but the amazing thing about it is the way Dexter slowly turns the tables until it becomes clear that the complacency of the townspeople is a far greater sin than the murderousness of someone who lives among them.This tale of murder is as bad as they come; there is no subtlety, no ironically cute plot twists.
He feels that he was justified in arriving at another person's home armed with a .45 and shooting two black females in an attempt to collect a debt that neither of the victims had a part in creating."Law without compassion is not law at all.” - Harry SeagravesIf Paris Trout were a Muslim and he decided that "Shariah Law" gave him the right to cut off a debtor's hand for refusing to pay the debt does that make the debtor a thief?
Pete Dexter has created a chilling portrait of a sociopath in Paris Trout, and a warm portrait of his small town and its social strata.
The tragedy of such a monster is how much he can get away with and for how long, because most people are good and desire harmony, and Dexter is brilliant on this aspect of the story.I'd love to play with his punctuation—as always with run-ons (comma splices here), only about one in five works for me—and sometimes I wished for physical descriptions of characters and landscape.
Yet the novel is so fully imagined that I loved it.
i read this however many years ago and i just now remembered that...as i purchased another dexter story, spooner, from borders.saw the "paris trout" there in that copy so here i am adding it to the list of books of mine.
the south.i recall enjoying this story, being entertained by it....and this "spooner" by the same man says he, dexter, is a "national book award winner" w/this one?
paris trout?
i no longer have my copy, alas.now if i could only remember some of the other titles i've read...there is that group....could pose the questions there...onward upward
This was a tough book to get through because there was not a lot to like about any of the characters. I was so angry and frustrated with the backward thinking, bullheadedness of almost everyone involved. That being said it was an interesting read. The characters were well described, although their motivations were difficult to assess, and I feel like I was there as a silent witness to all of it.
A book-sale find, a novel I'd heard about for years--and then swallowed in a couple of days. Dexter's style is totally straight-forward: you can see the journalist in him; but for a novel like this, it works better than a more allusive style would. The setting of this story, late 1950's Georgia, is so far removed from today that his recall of tiny detail is necessary. He calls up a gritty place and time with great power.
