https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1120969.Notes_from_the_Warsaw_Ghetto
Emmanuel Ringelblum never got the chance to organise the notes he painstakingly compiled throughout the existence of the Warsaw Ghetto.
Reading these notes you'd have to say that was essentially (and understandably) a sanitised version of life in the ghetto.
Basically very quickly the ghetto becomes a kind of oligarchy upheld by the corrupt Jewish police.
Reading this you often have to adjust Ringelblum's apportioning of blame because ultimately to criticise Jewish behaviour is to dilute the culpability of the Nazis and their insanity.He does draw attention to the good work done by many - the soup kitchens for the poor, the orphanages, the colossal altruistic bravery of many individuals.
It is always hard to rate books like this because of their standing as historical docuements.If you have read anything about the Holocaust, you've probably heard about Emmanuel Ringelblum who kept the Warsaw ghetto diaries. This book isn't the complete archieves, those are massive, but these are Ringelblum's own notes. The notes are not a diary, they are jottings. Yet this makes them far more engrossing, more real. It is almost like reading an AP wire.
It took a long time for me to get through, I think it isn't organized in the best way.About the book: It's a Jewish historian who, when WWII started, decided he wanted to record everything that happened to his people until he died.
One interesting thing, they had really high tech hiding places by the end of the Warsaw ghetto, but Jewish police found most of them in an effort to save themselves.
He said the Nazis wouldnt' have been able to accomplish what they did in killing the Jews without the Jewish policemen's help.
And sometimes the Jewish policement were more sadistic than the Nazis.
It was all in an effort to save their own lives.
Moving and chilling diary of a witness to a world as it is being murdered.
Ringelblum had been a historian before the war, and when the war began he had a stroke of genius. He organised a team of people to go out and save all the material they could find about the life of the ghetto. They were anxious that the Nazi voice should not be the only voice to be heard. The importance of this collection is the good faith effort to collect material and provide for future generations a record of what was going on, on a daily basis, in the Jewish communities under siege. Read the full interview at http://thebrowser.com/books/interview...
you think YOU'VE got problems?
Candor on Jewish-Nazi Collaboration and Its Big Help to the Germans in the Holocaust.
Ringelblum doesn’t mention the fact that Jewish agents, specially trained for the unmasking of hideouts, were also sent to Polish urban areas, and into fields and forests, in order to uncover Jews hidden by Poles.
JEWISH-NAZI COLLABORATION HAD LONG PRECEDED ANY LARGE-SCALE AND SUSTAINED GERMAN MURDERS OF JEWSIn common with other chroniclers, Ringelblum’s harshest criticisms are directed against fellow Jews, including the JUDENRAT and the Jewish ghetto police.
Owing to the actions of the Jewish ghetto police, a relatively small number of Germans and their Ukrainian and Baltic collaborators sufficed to send over 300,000 Warsaw Jews to their deaths at Treblinka.
A difficult book. Historically essential but not meant to read as a cohesive "book". At times it seemed necessarily detached from the actual happenings, in order to document them, but with outbursts of rage. The entries are short, cryptic, succinct, leaving the reader to fill in the gaps and imagine the harsh reality.It's amazing these records exist at all.
This was good, but a bit difficult to read for a couple of reasons. The material is obviously heartbreaking, but it's also just a bit choppy / pieced together. This makes sense though when you consider that these notes are a compilation of lots of individuals taking notes / making observations. I'm glad I read it.
Actual excerpts from Ringelblum's archive arranged chronological order give powerful glimpses into life in the Warsaw ghetto. Best if used as a supplement to other histories, as this is more concerning the ghetto experience, rather than a historical accounting of events.
“The Ghetto is much more painful now than it was in the Middle Ages, because we that were so high and mighty are now fallen so low” (85). “only the poor go to the camp” (159
fricken' AWSOME!
A tragic account kept by an amazing man. His journal also had its own adventure and I for one am glad it survived underneath the ruins of Warsaw.
Great for those wanting to know, in-depth, about the Warsaw ghetto, but reads too much like a textbook for my taste. It's well-written and informative, but it's not an easy read, by any means. It's not a "bad" book, but I was expecting more of a narrative, I guess, so it just wasn't what I was looking for.
meant to read this years ago. of course i knew of him and his heroic work, and of Korszak. i visited what is left of the ghetto. it is a sobering place. this account includes the heartbreak you expect but also the daily grind of trying to get food and water, trying not to get transported, trying to live one more day.we cannot imagine these things now yet if you check on the USHMM site there are places of deep concern and bloodshed and terror still today.
One of my all time must-read books.
Excellent! It's a rare book, too.
I can't find any words to describe this book other than humbling.....
