https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177945.To_Ride_Pegasus
Anne McCaffrey's books are like a comfort food for me. I've read most of her books and have reread so many of them about a zillion times. My copy of To Ride Pegasus is pretty beat up as it's one of my go-to reads. I was having a crummy night and needed something that I knew would make me feel better. Mission accomplished!
To Ride Pegasus was an amazing story, full of science fiction and fantasy elements and really incredible.
It’s an epic plot line, by which I mean it spans several lives and years rather than focusing on one small moment in time.
A pretty universal theme, I’d say.Somehow I think it’s more than the story, the characters and the great writing (which is enough to keep me in just about any book).
If you love dreaming about how our world might grow into something different, try To Ride Pegasus, and then the rest of the Talent series, especially The Rowan.
One woman gets angry because no one will help her deal with her telempathic ability, so the Man in Charge shoots her with a tranquillizer gun and then discusses how best to manipulate her with her boyfriend.
Not only do the Men in Charge not tell her, but when they do tell her and her power comes out in reaction and doesn't do what they want it to do, they end up hypnotising her so that she forgets what her power is and uses it automatically.
AMC is a woman, and yet she went along with what I assume was the popular male view of women?
I have read most if not all of Anne MaCaffrey's Pern series and a few of her short stories so I thought I'd start expanding into her other series.
I gather that this series might somehow link into the Tower and Hive series (also on my to-read list) though this is a complete guess as my brain just decided to link a couple of things together.I found this book a little strange to begin with, but then as the story warmed up I really started to enjoy it.
McCaffrey basically uses the story to explore the positives, negatives and practicalities of having Talents in the world.
Interesting book, but it felt like a bit of a slog.
The fact it was originally separate short stories showed through, and after each segment I found myself wanting to put it down and read something else for a bit.There was an interesting current of mind-control throughout the book, seemingly without thought from any of the main characters.
I would have liked this to be touched upon a bit more, although maybe it is in the further books.It got into my head and it made me think, but I'm not sure right now if I'll bother with the rest of the books.
From that point Henry Darrow begins the hard work needed to form the Parapsychic Center and bring all those with Talent under its protection.
Land for the center, finding Talents to bring into the fold and getting laws passed to protect them all started with Darrow, but continued well after his death.While this book was first published in 1973, I didn’t read it until after came out in paperback in 1986.
After reading McCaffrey’s Dragonriders of Pern series, I was hunting for other works by her to read and when I picked up The Rowan I didn’t realized there were three books prior to it in a series called The Talent.
This is more of a 3.5 star rating but I rounded up.
This is a series of connected short stories about the parapsychics and a future society.
I noticed that McCaffrey had rioting be a problem because of unemployment problems, which is actually a future I have seen sociologists predict as robots and AI do take over more and more human jobs.
That was very astute of her.
To get back to the stories, I really enjoyed them.
All the characters are strong ones.
I recommend this if you want to see McCaffrey do strong women without lots of sex in the story.
First, I know some reviewers have made comments about the fact that this seems to be putting women "in their place", but I take it as a product of its time.The "official" description above is pure rubbish! That said, I love most of AM's books and this was no exception. I loved the idea of an organization that helps those with Talents to utilize their powers to the best of their ability.

I don't know about more recent editions of To Ride Pegasus, but the cover of the 1973 mass market paperback is incredibly misleading.
In actuality, To Ride Pegasus is a surprisingly good collection of speculative short stories about the difficulties that would arise in legitimizing psychic powers after they have been proven scientifically, and the social/political problems that would occur in a society distrustful of a powerful minority.
Although To Ride Pegasus lays the groundwork for Anne McCaffrey's Talent novels, beginning with The Rowan, the short stories contained within it are speculative and more cerebral than the later series, and less space opera.
Where the hell is Pegasus? Fled from the mid-century ideas, I assume. "The consensus is that while a man might lift furs and jewels, possibly the dress, only a woman would takes the shoes, too." Page 127In one paragraph the second-wave protagonist is referred to, by the writer and by several other characters, invariantly as Op Owen, Dr Owen, Dai, Dave, Daffyd, Daffyd Op Owen. I assume the author is just super happy she used a Welsh name.
Love this book and have read it, as I have read all of Anne's books, at least a dozen times, if not more. Like her Dragonrider series, the Talent series spans generations and then goes on to span centuries, as it continues in the Tower and the Hive series way into the future.I love Anne's stories and the worlds that she created. There really is nothing quite like her worlds. They go on forever.
Although the characters and concepts are mildly interesting, this overly long and disjointed book about a group of telepaths is neither compelling nor even convincing.
To Ride Pegasus is a collection of four short stories that take place during the installment of the North and East American Parapsychic Centers.
The third-person is kind of like watching a movie in that I can’t get into Henry or Molly or Dave’s head… but even though there’s not a whole lot of introspection on the characters’ parts, I still ended up having feelings (of like or dislike) for all the characters because they’re simple to understand and easy to categorize as good or evil.The concepts used throughout To Ride Pegasus were also interesting and predictably science-fiction-esque, from the Goosegg to the symbol of Pegasus for the Talented.
Mind you, a lot of these things could have been proved by demonstration, but now that they can show brainwave patterns along with them, suddenly eveyone believes.Past the intro, the stories in the book include a story about the conception and development of a child of two 'talented' parents.
The story involves the discovery of a broadcasting telempath, and the ethnic leader who wants to control her for his own purposes.At this point, reading this collection is only really recommended if you're planning on reading the rest of the series.
I have read most of her "Pern" books and thoroughly enjoyed them.
He gathers and organizes others like him into a group and sells their abilities to predict disasters and accidents, which lowers insurance costs for individuals and cities.
He then turns the operation over to a contemporary and this person solidifies the organization.McCaffrey explores ideas such as: * How would "normal" humans act in a society where some people have more abilities than others?
* How would society protect the Talented from wrongful legal suits?
I've always enjoyed books that showcase empaths, telepaths and other PSI talents, mainly because I'm an empath myself.
Oddly enough, when I first started reading sci-fi around age ten, Anne McCaffrey was my favourite author, no question. In later years, and possibly as a result of changing social expectations, I find her characters decreasingly engaging, which is a hell of a shame as the concepts underlying many of her stories are worth attention. To some extent I find this most true of her very earliest and very latest works; the ones towards the middle of her writing less so.
I read the third book first, oops.This story sets the stage - it lets you know about Talents, their hardships in being astablished for the world to acknowledge, so on.The only complaint I have is the ending felt abrupt. If I did not have the second book to read immediately I might have been in the car trying to find it.
Reading this book is like watching Classic Star Trek, you can see what the world was like when it was written but still love the vision of the future that is shown. Some of the attitudes in the book may be dated but the world is easy to slip into and I enjoyed visiting it again.
Q:But he had a date with destiny. And kept it on time. (c)Q:
Even for the early 70's, the stories have a dated feel, most likely being written significantly earlier.
The book explores the emergence of psychic powers in a future and slightly dystopian earth.The book itself is short, barely out of novella length.
The emergence of psychics would naturally bring up legal, ethical, and social consequences, so Anne strives to explore that in a future which feels a little tyrannical and dictatorial.
While at one point, the psychics are talking about ethics, they are also hiring out to companies and governments to act as crowd control, literally manipulating others.
Ironically, Anne played this all straight, not realizing the dissonance of her own setting.
All the stories were amazing to my 80's teenage self - showing strong women for the day.To Ride Pegasus (first published in this collection 1973)A Womanly Talent (first published 1969 in Analog)Apple (first published 1969 in an anthology)A Bridle for Pegasus (first published 1973 in Analog)Rereading the book in 2016 changed the glasses of how I viewed the book - no women in leadership roles - The Directors were men, the politicians were men.
The reread also showed me how I got so many of my attitudes of what a woman should be; I didn't realize how much Ms. McCaffrey shaped who I was.Should teenage girls of today read this book - likely not.
The summary of the book makes it seem like they will follow four separate women as the main characters of each of their stories, but instead the stories are all about the men who lead/control/manipulate the women.
The only kind of interesting thing was the politics of getting the Talents acknowledged and given legal protections, but after a certain point, it wasn't enough to balance out all the negatives.It's been a long time since I've read any Anne McCaffrey books, and after this, it will probably a long time before I pick up another one.
I wasn't introduced to Anne McCaffrey through the Pern books.
"To Ride Pegasus" was my first Anne McCaffrey book ages and ages ago.
I still have a fondness for the early Talent books and the future they created.
I was uncomfortable with how Roznine is set up as a dark stalker character in "Bridle for Pegasus" only to pull back and show him as a well meaning ethnic leader.
(And was I the only one that saw a Vaden-Amalda-Roznine triad at the end?) I now want to read "Pegasus in Flight" to see the generations beyond "To Ride" where I know several familiar surnames crop up and try to make sense of the timeline.
The summary is entirely misleading—this book is all about the men who shepherd, cajole and control those so-called "powerful women."It reads like Brave New World, Foundation, and Stranger in a Strange Land were thrown into a blender and all the interesting parts got strained out.
Maybe it's good by the standards of the '70s?
Maybe it was cool then that a woman was writing popular SF at all, even if it's full of paternalistic cardboard cutouts?
Maybe I would have liked it 20 years ago when I didn't know any better?
Warning for rampant ableism and sexism, and weird "ethnic" subplots I didn't entirely understand but felt gross.
A collection of science fiction short stories about people with psychic (psi) powers that could be measured and trained.
It's not just fantasy!Again, I'm re-reading books from long ago that I've enjoyed, one of my favorite relaxing summer reading habits.
This is my Anne McCaffrey summer.
The further back I go since I last read them, the more I get from these re-reads.This group of stories chronicles the birth and growing pains of the Research and Training Center for protecting Talents and using their gifts for all humanity.
Legal and political woes drive the plot but there are also personal struggles and characters I care about.

Anne McCaffrey writes really well, and this book is a late 60s early 70s version of Agents of Shield, where Talented people - telepaths, empaths, kineticists, teleporters, you get the idea - have to unite to protect themselves. As a study on the political and social quandaries this creates, in brief short story chapters, this book is really interesting and its quick brush characters who are deeply thought out (and thus the brief brushes work) interact believably.One note of caution is that the chapters are separated by some years, so you will need to read carefully rather than rush this.
One of my all-time favorite series. I've loved Anne McCaffrey since her Dragonriders of Pern days, and I also adore anything ESP/extrasensory-related. And its not always easy finding books in that subgenre! While I think McCaffrey did a better job with the Tower and Hive series, to which this is the prequel series, I still completely enjoyed this one. It is a complex and fascinating alternate Earth she has created. Well well worth a read!
