https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/284019.The_Book_of_the_Damned
I like his language - wch may generally go undercommented on as people pay more attn to the more spectacular "Fortean" phenomena described.
I find Fort's language to be EXTREMELY CAREFUL in its attempt to NOT BE DEFINITIVE & it's in this that, for me, therein lies Fort's extreme importance.
It's not just that he stresses that scientists are capable of ignoring data/experiences that fall outside 'convenient' &/or 'consensus' 'reality', it's also that Fort describes things in such a way that's both expressive of & CONDUCIVE TO a state-of-mind of CONTINUAL QUESTIONING.
Wild Talents, the Book of the Damned and New Lands.Lo!: List of strange phenomenon with possible explanations.
Also postulates earthquakes and volcanos related to the appearances of new stars due to a stationary earth (?).
Wild Talents: Strange fires that only burn beds and not other areas of a room.
New Lands: Manifest Destiny--now it is go to the stars, but when he was young, it was Go West.
Saw something on the internet about an astronomical event and a mention of fires and earthquakes, thought ruefully of Charles Fort and something in the back of my mind made me say ummmm.....
Also, there's the occasional hilarity of passages like the following:"But it is our expression that there are no positive differences: that all things are like a mouse and a bug in the heart of a cheese.
I think we're all bugs and mice, and are only different expressions of an all-inclusive cheese."But by the sixth or seventh consecutive chapter of lists of weird weather reports*, I very nearly gave up on the book.
But for whatever reason I did keep going, and I found that what I tended to enjoy the most were Fort's theories trying to explain odd happenings.
Here is my opinion of this book and Charles Fort in general : I think the fact that everything written in here is true, recorded history is fascinating and frightening.
His critiques of science and the modern scientific method are really very interesting and enlightening.Our world is not as orderly and logical as we like to pretend it is - and Fort has the proof.
And I do love that concept.
However, the fact is I hate him.
It's all the same thing, and the mass of information is overwhelming.
I think he should have stuck to writing essays.
Short essays.
We are still in Fortean TimesThe Book of the Damned (first published in 1919) covers records and reports of odd and freak occurrences from around the world that were at the time, and mostly still are, unexplained.
What Fort was really getting at, with his double-edged sword, wasn't just to list the weird and wonderful but to confront the ongoing denial, or over-simple explanations, given by experts and scientists at the time, in response to these stories – that denial was the driver for his writing the book – the clue is, as they say, in the title.A real oversightOne major drawback of the book is that it isn’t organised into proper chapters – so has no table of contents - and nor does it contain an index at the back.
I can't deny Fort's importance as a pioneer in the study of weird and inexplicable phenomena, but surely he was one of the worst prose stylists of his generation.
Adding to the confusion, Tiffany Thayer (the founder of the first Fortean Society) assures us that Fort did not believe any of his own explanations of the strange events he describes.
Those interested in a "Fortean" approach to the bizarre should try John A.
Keel, John Michell and Bob Rickard, before deciding whether they want to get bogged down in Fort himself.
At times as jumbled as the Sargasso Sea, but overall a pleasure to read.
Charles Fort is a terrible writer.
Simply terrible.
I can just imagine friends and acquaintances diving into back alleys any time they spotted Ol' Charlie coming down the street.
He is not a man I would want to have a conversation with.
After poo-pooing all the scientific explanations of these phenomenons, Fort gives his own conclusion, which is...Are you sure you're ready for it?Seriously, this will blow your mind and make you question everything you believe in.Ok, don't say I didn't warn you.Hold on to your knickers.Charles Fort's explanation is......Aliens are dumping their garbage on us.
I was hoping for alot more from this book. Seems to me it's just the ramblings of one man opinion without any proofs or really any conclusions. Lots of facts stated but nothing drawn from them. Not recommended
We're all bugs and mice, and merely different expressions of an all-inclusive cheese.
The money sentence from this tedious book (Boni & Liveright, 2nd printing, 1920 as found at Google Books) by Charles Fort is found on page 252: "I think that we're fished for." This sentence, made famous by William Gaddis in his masterful novel THE RECOGNITIONS where characters discuss Fort's ideas as part of an intellectual conversation taking place at a post-WWII social gathering in Manhattan, is Fort's humorous retort to an August 27, 1885 UFO sighting where a "'strange object in the clouds'" was reported to resemble a "triangular shape, and seemed to be about the size of a pilot-boat mainsail, with chains attached to the bottom of it." Fort wonders if there was "something [alien life] trawling overhead" fishing for humans below.
I'd never read any of Fort's writing but understood he is recognized as one of the pioneers in collecting odd facts and reporting on incidents of, for example, rains of frogs on towns.And, in essence, that's exactly what THE BOOK OF THE DAMNED is.
It's a collection of odd facts and occurences from across the globe.
This was before many great scientific discoveries and that can hamper the enjoyment of Fort's book because he presents his own theories throughout, theories which, in today's age, seem absurd and ridiculous.Fort's ability to simply throw any science - dated while it may be by today's standards - clearly out the window can become frustrating as he discusses, as an example, why blood rained in a town in Spain.
I started this book thinking Fort was some kind of proto-Alex Jones, 20th century conspiracy theorist, but I was missing the point.
Fort doesn't actually believe the theories he puts forwards, he doesn't believe in a Super-Sargasso Sea, he doesn't believe in an extinct race of diminunitive fairies, it's all a thought experiment.
He gathers anomalous data from the most reputable sources of the 20th and 19th centuries, and puts forth absurd theories that account for ALL the data.
It's a mockery of his academic contemporaries' attempts at the demarcation and classification of all natural processes, and a statement: that all things are continuous, everything fades into everything else.
Very interesting book in general. Great first approach to aerial phenomena. Great sense of humor. Raises good questions relating to a methodology of the paranormal. Much more boring than I thought it would be though.
Not recommended. Just a listing of everything weird that has happened on the earth. Most of this is stuff that fell from the sky. Very archaic writing and difficult reading since it is mostly in list form with references.
Amphetamine was first made in 1887 in Germany, and was first abused by Charles Fort in America.
Absolutely glorious. Filled me with joy!
The basic theory is that if we continue to search and question, all things considered certain will melt away and it is vital that we continue to seek and question so that we can continue to evolve.This fits quite nicely in line with other books that have interested me of late that continue to push me to remember that the questions are far more important than the answers and the more we look the more we uncover about ourselves and the world (and cosmos) around us."My own version is: that nothing indicates anything, in a positive sense, because, in a positive sense, there is nothing to be indicated.
Charles Fort had a lot of interesting ideas, as is evident from this book and his development of the “Intermediatist” philosophy of knowledge, but unfortunately, none of it comes off with any coherence in this maddening, opaque ode to open-mindedness.
Charles Fort, the origin of much modern day studies and philosophies of the paranormal and the weird in popular culture, from aliens to time travel, writes about facts “damned” by mainstream early 20th century science for not fitting into preconceived conceptions of the world.
His work can't properly be called "pseudoscience" or "pseudo-philosophy" because it's not meant to be a serious attempt at either.
His own brazenly childish or primitive notions are put forward to illuminate the "pseudo-" behind all attempts at organizing knowledge.
He was way ahead of the curve, both in the diversity of phenomena he cataloged (quite meticulously!) and in his refusal to organize these facts according to a comfortingly sensible spiritual or materialist paradigm.The atrocious writing style can take some getting used to in "The Book Of the Damned", though it does contain the broadest sampling of strange phenomena and his thinking style.
Volevo leggerlo perché citato appassionatamente da Pauwels e Bergier nel "Mattino dei maghi".
I "dannati" sono fatti esclusi dalla scienza ufficiale: "alcuni di essi sono cadaveri, scheletri, mummie che si contorcono, che camminano vacillando, animati da compagni che sono stati dannati ancora in vita.
Ci sono cose che sono teoremi e altre che sono solo spazzatura: essi sfileranno sotto braccio a Euclide con lo spirito dell'anarchia.
Alcuni sono assassini".
Peccato che il libro sia davvero una lunga sfilata di fatti, ma terribilmente monotona e appesantita dalla minuziosa citazione delle fonti (comprensibile visto lo scopo di Fort, che non è quello di intrattenere il lettore).
I am half way through this and I have got two words to describe what I am reading:"Bizarre" and "disturbing".
It is a shame that this book wasn't written by someone with a better writing style, as it was difficult to follow his train of thought.
I have read few books that start so many paragraphs with the word "That".And yet the citations of mysterious sky droppings certainly leave you scratching your head in wonder.
It's one of those books that you may wish you hadn't read.Or it could be a catalyst to break you out of a dull life and propel you into exploring more mysteries.
Well this is quite a classic book !!Now the idea of Fort is to attention us that dogmatism and blind faith are present even in science , or a better word scientism .
Reminds me of C.S Lewis criticism of scientism .
But Fort takes another aproach .
Let other generations deal with theam whean science will be more capable ; and also we must acknowledge the limits of scientism !!
Or ,to say it in other words , let us not be afraid to say that we don't know !!
It's not a bad read for around Halloween.
Seriously, considering tornadoes as a supernatural occurrence or possibly caused by UFOs?
He doesn't prove beyond a reasonable doubt that it was caused by anything different.Still, though, this is not bad for reading at this time of year if you're looking for something creepy or weird that is atypical of the normal Halloween fare.
Just be aware that it was written a very long time ago and much has changed since then.I think I'm going to go read Lovecraft now, he's perfect for this time of the year.
While he could have done with a fraction of the material and still driven the point across, this work is still filled with interesting questions concerning a number of what Fort calls "Damned" facts - facts destined to be rejected by science.
Whether he is joking or not is hard to tell, but what is sure is the works main point is the mentality of what he calls Positivism in science.If you are interested in Blood Rain, mysterious objects that fall from the sky, blackened cities, UFOs or other similar events, this is a great classic to jump into.
Oh goodness, this was appalling. I love the idea of a collection of unexplained events and phenomena. But Mr. Fort spends huge amounts of space complaining about scientists being disingenuous in their scientific pursuits. His evidence for this is not the fact that the events remain unexplained; rather, his evidence is that they have not en-masse accepted his preposterous conclusions regarding these events. For example, he attributes all unusual events of falling things (e.g. ice, leaves, frogs, blood, fish) to extra-terrestrial vehicles, without a shred of evidence for such a conclusion. I feel embarrassed for Mr. Fort.
Written in the early 1900s by Charles Fort who was a pioneer in the study of odd phenomenon. By "The Damned" Fort means "the excluded" - data that scientists excluded in their attempts to describe anomalous occurrences. This was a very difficult read because of Fort's writing style and his jumping from subject to subject before making a point. The book covers phenomenon such as UFOs, red rain, giants, organic matter falling from the sky etc. Interesting book filled with historical references but he draws no real conclusions.
What a slog this is - I may not finish. Fort builds his arguments slowly and the narrative thread is thin; his method is to convince the reader by overwhelming with similar data points - it is tiresome at best. There are a few nuggets and his outrage is entertaining (I keep thinking of Vizzini in the Princess Bride - "Inconceivable!" - for some reason). Fort's POV is interesting & worth considering but reading this makes me want to watch early episodes of The X-Files (which owes a lot to Fort/Fortean ideas), a much easier route to the similar conclusions.
my head hurts:The Book of the Damned (1919), New Lands (1923), Lo! (1931), and Wild Talents (1932). Charles Fort's four stranger-than-science books. a procession of data, reports and the like that make your no longer need sleeping aids. :/ But strikingly the age of the work more seems to demonstate how little progress we've made in some fields of science.
The book is amazing, amazingly prescient, and almost incomprehensible! It is difficult to read, not really a story, but the information is something you will not find anywhere else. I would not read it for fun,but for the idea that there are many things beyond science in the past, and still beyond it now.
