https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227729.The_Coffin_Dancer
All that was found at the scene of his disappearance: a few dozen grains of odd sand.Anyway, Rhyme' becomes interested in what Sellitto and Banks' has to say, when they tell him; the Dancer is back in town.
So Tony Panelli will have to stay missing for a bit longer, when Rhyme puts that case on hiatus, and helps Selitto and Banks, catch his nemesis.The first victims of the Dancer' are Ed Carney and his co-pilot.
So it's up to Rhyme and his team: Amelia, Mel Cooper, Sellitto, Banks, Dellray, etc, to catch the Dancer' before he can eliminate the other two witnesses.
4.5 stars!!! It's official! I have new favorite author and series. All the clues used, the evidence solved by Rhymes and Sachs are fascinating.
This is the book that hooked me into reading suspense novels.
Back in 2002, I was at Super-Walmart waiting for my car to get an oil change so I decided to kill some time in the book aisle.
I have read about 120 novels since and nothing has topped it yet.
I felt the first chapter was the best that I have ever read and the ending was a pure shock for me.
Since that was my first Jeffery Deaver novel, I now know what to expect from him.
So if anybody thinks they can suggest a book in the genre that will top this for me then let me know.
While the first book was a very enjoyable thriller, the second entry in the series, might have been better.Coffin Dancer is about a killer who has eluded Rhyme, a fact which haunts the detective.
Rhyme must once again use Amelia as his legs in this quickly paced and complex thriller.
The familiar characters from the first entry are back, but not all of them will survive their last waltz with Coffin Dancer.
I must confess that I no longer read this series, as I find later entries disappointing.
But Coffin Dancer is a good one, full of atmosphere and character development as Rhyme and Amelia become closer.
I’m not sure if it’s for better or worse but most of the bad came first.This novel is the sequel to the acclaimed The Bone Collector, which introduced paraplegic forensic genius Lincoln Rhyme and his protégé, NYPD officer Amelia Sachs.
In fact, for the first quarter or so of the book, the most interesting character is the target of the assassin for whom the novel is named.Having just lost her husband to an airplane explosion--a flight on which she was supposed to be the pilot--Percey Clay must now be protected by Rhyme and his team.
What a fantastic second book in The Lincoln Rhymes series.
Pulled into a case involving the hitman named as "The Coffin Dancer" Rhymes has personal reasons for bringing him down.I loved Rhymes in this one.
Though it's clear something is off with Amelia, though Rhymes ignores it since he is focused on the case and keeping her safe.
Amelia has definitely learned a lot from Rhymes.
Rhymes and Amelia are doing what they can to track down the Coffin Dancer to stop him from killing two witnesses.
Everything else was pitch perfect too.Once again New York shines in this one.
I'm working on a theory: just as every second-hand book seller has at least one, unwanted copy of The Da Vinci Code (and 2+ if it's a Hospice or Salvation Army shop), every summer holiday bach has at least one Jeffery Deaver book.At least all the ones I visit seem to, which is great because these make the perfect beach read.
Somehow I'll have to find a bach that has some of the later books in the series though, eventually...
I think I've made it through all the early ones now.
I'm just starting to get into this series after a long period from reading The Bone Collector. Excellent suspense and writing. Looking forward to reading the rest of these gems!
It is a great, creepy, fast paced thrill/mystery book, with all the twists and forensic tidbits one might expect from Deaver.
The mindplay between the main character (lincoln rhyme) and those villians is enthralling, and adds about as much action and suspense to the book as any other in the series.
for anyone who has not read the other lincoln rhyme books, Lincoln is a detective who has been a quadriplegic since a accident on the scene.
its a very fast paced, thrilling book with great twists and I would recomend it to anyone (well, adults and up:)!
I don't know whether I'm quicker or slower on the uptake than the average reader of Deaver's work, but a cursory glance at reviews here was enough to flick the switches in my brain and have me figuring things out ahead of Rhyme and co.
So if you want to be left reeling, play it safe and stay out of people's reviews.Yeah, there was some stuff that I didn't get, but it was mostly the minor stuff.
Lincoln Rhyme could be my modern Peter Wimsey: a detective I become invested in on a personal level as well as just for the mysteries.
Dosta dobar triler s inteligentnim i nepredvidim zapletima ali mi nešto fali u cijeloj priči.
Nešto što bi me poistovjetilo s nekim od likova.
Nešto što bi me uvuklo dublje u priču, odnose i motivaciju likova.
Na žalost izostala je ta povezanost pa sam priču promatrao iz ptičije perspektive.Iskreno i ti zapleti su u nekim trenutcima djelovali malo i prepametni da ne kažem nestvarni.
Što samo po sebi nije neki problem jer se radi o fikciji ali opet fikciji koja želi realna i autentična u malom milionu sitnih detalja.
Ali kad ih ima desetak onda postane malo zamorno
It's the second instalment in the Lincoln Rhyme series and it doesn't disappoint. Fast-paced, well-written, with a surprise twist at the end it's definitely worth a read.
Dafür ist Rhyme, mit seinen Ecken und Kanten, immer noch eine der interessantesten Figuren, denen ich in Thrillern begegnet bin.
Die Entwicklung zwischen ihm und der Polizistin Sachs gefällt mir und ich bin begeistert, wie die beiden im Team arbeiten.Dazu sind Täter und Opfer und die anderen 'kleineren' Figuren auch komplexe Persönlichkeiten und durch die wechselnden Blickwinkel, nimmt die Geschichte einen schnell ein.
Auch das irre Gedankenspiel zwischen Rhyme und dem Tänzer hat mir gefallen, wobei Deaver es versteht einen ständig auf die falsche Fährte zu locken, weshalb sich mir nicht immer erschließt wie Rhyme dann immer zu seinen Geistesblitzen kommt.
Tác giả miêu tả chi tiết cách khám nghiệm hiện trường, cách lọc và thu thập các bằng chứng tỉ mỉ đến mức đủ thấy trình độ chuyên môn của ông trong lĩnh vực này chuyên sâu đến cỡ nào, chứ không như một vài quyển trinh thám khác chỉ nói qua loa cách phá án là xong.
Mình khâm phục tác giả ở điểm này kể từ bộ đầu tiên Kẻ tầm xương rồi.
Thả thêm tim vì mối quan hệ của Rhymes và Sachs đã tăng thêm trong bộ này hóng cặp này quá đi *tung bông*
Typical Jeffery Deaver mystery involving two of my favorite characters- Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs. This time they are tracking a devious killer who has a tatoo of a snake dancing around the victims' coffin on his arm. I love the interplay of Lincoln and lover/partner Amelia as she acts as his legs at the crime scenes and learns to be a fantastic crime scene detective under his tutelage.
So Lincoln and Amelia need to find the perp and take him down before he takes out the other 2 before they can testify for the grand jury to nail Phillip Hansen.One of the characters really rubbed me the wrong way, and that being Percey.
I found Rhyme a less annoying in this book, and more controlled, so that was good.
I loved Amelia in this book.
I guess I expected too much from it by comparing it to The Bone Collector where they had to work hard and figure out what the clues meant, and that makes a good mystery.
It would have been better if some of it was developed earlier in the story, so the reader could see “how” it worked, instead of being “told” at the end.
But the good: there is a surprise at the end - something so intricate that only Lincoln can figure it out.
One of the reasons was the development of the interesting relationship between Amelia and Lincoln in TBC.
By the middle of the book I was losing interest, but I was curious enough to keep reading.I would have liked one part shortened - the too-much-technical-talk when a pilot is flying a plane.I loved one scene.
Muss meine Bewertung beim zweiten Durchgang in der chronologischen Reihenfolge korrigieren.Ganz so viel Persönlichkeitsentwicklung wie im ersten Teil ist beim Paar Rhyme/Sachs zwar nicht drin, obwohl der gejagte Verbrecher ein ganz dickes Kapitel in Lincolns Vorgeschichte einnimmt, schließlich hat die Sprengfalle das Dancers am Tatort die damalige Lieblingsassistentin des Forensikers auf dem Gewissen.
Of course, this leaves Deaver no choice but to create such stunning criminal minds that they are indeed a match for our hero Lincoln Rhyme...that the possibility does exist to get away with it in spite of Mr. Rhyme's calculating mind.But it's not just about the crime...primarily Deaver takes his time as he develops his cast of characters across a whole series of ingenious books...enveloping all of the primary human emotions within such characters: from romance, to jealousy, to hatred, to loyalty, betrayal, and so forth.P.S. Same review for the whole series.
If you've read this review of Lincoln Rhyme, you've read them all.
The second book in the Rhyme/Amelia series shows them facing a killer that is almost as smart as they are.
As in The Bone Collector Amelia does the legwork and Rhymes analyses the information and decides where to look in a fight against time to keep everyone safe.
Unfortunately, not all the witnesses like to stay put and safe and it seems the killer is working with a partner so not only they have to follow the puzzling leads but they also have to control the witnesses.
I quite liked how he developed Rhymes and Amelia’s relationship, it wasn’t always easy for Amelia and she was a bit lost for the a while but the end is promising.
I am intrigued by Lincoln Rhymes., and I admire Amelia Sachs.
These two characters are far from perfect -- flawed, obstinate, stubborn, fearful, arrogant.
Mr Deaver has taken a man in bed -- a quadiplegic - and allowed him to be intelligent and vibrant.
He has also allowed him to be unlikable at times.
He has taken a man in a bed and made him into a character who is loud, smart and full of motion.
Amelia is, of course, an able-bodied woman.
Despite her career, Mr Deaver has written her to be a character who acknowledges her fear and her anger.
In the second book, the oddly matched crime fighters tracks a contract killer on a mission. Intense, but Deaver's trademark plot twists this time spirals away towards the ridiculous. Still, in it's genre it's quite good and the continuing story about Sachs and Rhyme and their relationship is enjoyable.
This book annoyed me - a lot. Two characters were essentially too dumb to live and I had moments where I just wanted them to die. I didn't care by the end of it if they found him or not. I just wanted the book to be finished.
The Lincoln Rhyme series has quickly become one of my favourite! After being hooked into the first book, I was hoping this one would live up to my high expectations. It easily did with another plot twist that had me hanging on the edge of my seat! A great read and would highly recommend!
This one was too unbelievable. I understand that it is a novel but it is supposed to be a crime novel and I think the abilities of the characters were too much of a stretch of the imagination.
In this, the second Lincoln Rhyme book, Lincoln and lover Amelia Sachs are called in to protect a female pilot who's husband has been murdered by the man now chasing her.I adored The Bone Collector and could not wait to read this one, but unfortunately I was disappointed in The Coffin Dancer.
The ending had the classic Deaver twist, I didn't see it coming and it made me think that the rest of the book had been worth reading after all, purely because of the fantastic ending.I'm now reading the third, which is much more action-packed, so read The Coffin Dancer for the ending, it is wonderful!
Le tante nozioni tecnico - scientifiche a volte rendono lo svolgersi degli eventi poco fluido, ma essendo il marchio di fabbrica di Deaver, non mi pesa più di tanto, se regala poi intrecci polizieschi così complessi e sorprendenti. Stavolta il serial killer (ma su commissione) sembra essere più intelligente di Lincoln, è sfuggente e camaleontico, imprendibile, quasi non umano. Il romanzo sarebbe da 4 stelle, ma si guadagna la quinta stella sul doppio colpo di scena finale, che mi ha letteralmente sorpresa, cosa che capita ormai di rado con i thriller. E poi Amelia e Lincoln li amo!
Hádejte, kdo uhodl identitu Tanečníka!Já jen já... :DMám radost. Jestřáb se nikdy nestane domácím mazlíčkem. Na city tu není místo. Svým způsobem jde o umění psychologie. S vražedným odhodláním a zájmem vzájemně poměřují svůj důvtip. Lincoln Rhyme je prostě kabrňák na entou. <3 <3
4 StarsNow, that was fun. Can we do it again??I really enjoyed this Lincoln Rhyme novel. Nice game of cat & mouse; but I am not sure who had who in the trap. Many twists and turns, with lots of dead ends; evidence leading no where...and then all of a sudden, things start clicking at the end and you are thinking, "No way! No way!" Loved this installment and am ready for some more.
Another well crafted Lincoln Rhyme story with the tension rising as the clock ticks.
