https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3577.A_Tangled_Web
I'm not going to bother with that sort of thing on my death-bed."Not much can stir up old squabbles, grudges and festering resentments like the reading of a will, and I'm pretty sure Aunt Becky has that in mind when she orders all her relatives to gather before her.
For some, she brings up old missteps and embarrassments.
Old Becky then proceeds to read off her will, leaving her furniture and other household items to those who want them least.
Montgomery is best known as the creator of the beloved Anne of Green Gables, but she really proves her mettle as a writer with this sly comic masterpiece.
For shame, Anne Shirley's mommy.
Superb.
Absolutely superb.
The characters live and step right off the page, leaving me thinking about them after I've closed the book.
There's such a broad spectrum of humanity that I think everyone could find herself in at least one of the characters.
I guess every LMM book brings me to feel that everything will be okay, giving me lots of hope and optimism, and that is why I'll revisit her work again and again.* The cover drives me mad-is it Donna and Peter or Gay and Roger??
I have made the decision that the Darks and Penhallows are my favorite LMM clan and a Tangled Web may just be my favorite stand alone LMM book.....yes, I believe that I shall now declare that it is now my favorite stand alone LMM book-- we have to change our favorites as we change, you know :-) I started out reading this book on the heels of "Magic for Marigold" and "The Blue Castle" just to simply study the clan dynamics.
I love the stories of the clan in this book and I found myself wishing that I could jump in this book and live among them and be one of them.
I cannot believe I didn't like this book the first time I read it. It's full of everything good in an L.M. Montgomery story, from humor to romance to judgmental families. ;) I really, really, REALLY like this book. <3
I didn't really have any expectations for this one. For unknown reasons the unread book never appealed to me and it is one of the last Montgomery novels I read. Yet I really liked A Tangled Web. I was intrigued from the very beginning and found myself caring for many of the characters.It was quite an unusual setting for a Montgomery novel to have that many storylines, but for me, it worked well. I enjoyed reading it and I was pleasantly surprised.
And perpetual bachelor Penny Dark thinks maybe he should get married, if he wants to get the jug, and casts his eye upon the spinsters in the clan.Meanwhile young, pretty Gay Penhallow is caught up in love with Noel Gibson, while her sophisticated and seductive cousin Nan decides to steal him away.
I don’t know if the reality of what happened quite lives up to the anticipation – but it’s believable, in its way, and in order for the situation to be resolved requires some excellent plotting.
But … there is a fly in the ointment, which I'd forgotten until I came to it - how could I forget that last line of the book?
It’s an unnecessary stain on a lovely book, and a true sign that while a lot of things have changed for the worse since L.M.M. wrote, not everything has.
Even given the fly, this is one of my favorites among L.M.M.'s books.
Very Montgomery with the ideal of the "Clan" family.
United against anyone from the "outside" yet snapping and biting each other all the time in private.
A book set in its time, place & people.
Ending is typical for its time but still unnecessarily offensive.
I'm not sure what Montgomery was trying to achieve, except she was trying to demonstrate how uncouth the Sams were or she was showing off by being lady author using 'common' language.
Either way the chapter could have been edited out and none of the rest of the story suffer for it.I did like Margaret, and her 'ending' was perfection.
If you've ever read any of Montgomery's short stories, it'll help you to understand what I mean when I say this book is like a bunch of them interwoven together, and hence is better than if they were all separate.
The book follows a large family clan through about a year with engagements, weddings, falling in love at first sight, *thinking* you fell in love at first sight, etc.
Although it was hard for me to keep so many people straight, I really loved it.
Montgomery did a clever job making the main characters from one story the incidental characters in another.
Most dread an encounter with Aunt Becky fearing that she will drudge up some sordid detail of their past, yet there is one thing that brings almost all living members of the clan to her levee; the jug.
There is plenty of romance in lot of the stories, yet some are not romantic and I feel like that isn't the main focus of the book.
So many of the stories within the book are tangled and even the clan itself is tangled with 60 Penhallows having married 60 Darks.All in all, I think this was a great book.
A better title than 'a tangled web' cannot given for such a narrative of intricate, invisible and strange ties that binds and breaks families (read clan).Like many others, it was the magic of the Blue Castle which brought me into this Tangled web, to say that it was nothing like the beloved Blue Castle was a little disappointing in the beginning but the beauty of the PE Island and the sweetness in the writing of Ms. Montgomery were undeniable.I had recently read the wiki page of this talented author and was amazed & saddened by her miserable personal life.
Connection or no connection, those who liked the Casual Vacancy will end up liking this quaint little book too (vice versa).
In appreciating art, I have always had a soft spot for those works that take things to such extremes that I am forced to love what I would normally hate.
The same is true with the jug; to question why the various Darks and Penhallows so covet it is to miss the point.In short, A Tangled Web is well worth a read; the prose is exemplary and injected with just the proper amount of levity, so even after the book concludes with the telegraphed anticlimax, you are more than happy at having read it.
This is the L.M. Montgomery book for adults I was hoping to read.
This clever story of the Dark and Penhallow clans, whose family trees are more like shrubs, is a fun romp with the skeletons in their closets.
It's a behind the scenes look at the best and worst of human nature among the clan and it's entertaining from start (or almost) to the end (not quite).
A definite recommend to anyone who loves Victorian literature and L.M. Montgomery in particular.
This book wasn't at all what I expected.
The first half of the book was really hard to get through.
The second half picked up and I was enjoying it when I was reading it, just not as much as I would've liked.
I think I remembered who everyone was and which stories belonged to which characters.
I added a half-star just for this chapter!I didn't care for the language, which there wasn't a LOT of, but it just didn't fit in with a Montgomery story, in my opinion.
Overall, I'm giving this book 4.5 stars out of 5.
I wasn't sure I would enjoy this, but once I'd made it through the first couple of chapters it became hugely entertaining.
I never did get a grip on who all the cousins were or how everybody was related but it didn't matter - just enjoy the ride.
Because the ride is the thing with LMM.
I loved the central idea, of a fairly rubbish jug assuming massive importance as a prized heirloom within a sizeable family, both as a setpiece and as a mechanism for bringing together the various characters' stories.
And I liked the characters and the ebb and flow of the action.
When I was rereading and reviewing The Blue Castle I came across mentions of L.M. Montgomery's other novel targeted toward adults - A Tangled Web. I knew I had read it because if it was by L.M. Montgomery and the Robinson Public Library owned it I read it.
This definitely lacked much of the charm of The Blue Castle and as it focused on so many characters it was hard to get attached to any.
It is also hard to review a book that ends with such controversy.
Even in the context of 1931 it is a terrible way to finish a book.

It was a tangled web indeed so many characters in the families of the Penhallow and the Darks who never married anyone but only within themselves. Their love interests , bickering , gossiping and sarcastic digs at each other constituted the story. It was fun but it took me about 30% of the story to understand who was who and who was who's beau.L M Montgomery is my comfort read and it did not disappoint though it would have been easy on my brains if she had omitted a couple of characters.
Loses a couple of stars for a ridiculously racist joke at the ending which I did not see coming. Otherwise, this book was a great read if you are looking for a quiet, atmospheric yarn that is very easy.
I felt that there were too many characters to keep up with. I think that this book would have been better as a series of short stories.
I loved this book. But hated the last line.
This is my favorite of all Montgomery's books.
I love the whole Dark and Penhallow clans.
I love all the little loves and hates and side stories.
I love the ridiculousness of the jug.
It's not perfect, in spite of my 5 stars.
I do get tired of all the "damning" of things, as if it's the only way LMM could figure out how to make it aimed towards adults.
The last line is almost unforgivable as well, even accounting for the differences of time and place.
But oh the stories!
So many different stories woven together in a tangled web.
Who should have gotten the jug?
A Tangled Web is one of L.M. Montgomery's stand-alone books. It took a little getting used to because the book follows so many people, and it was hard to keep them all straight at first. But after a few pages, the characters came to life, and I wanted to know their stories.
We have young lovers, estranged lovers, confirmed bachelors, lonely old maids, lonely children - the usual cast.It's a different kind of book for Lucy Maud, one that regularly flits between people and perspectives, following various threads over the course of several months or so.
As is usual for Montgomery, the tone is usually sentimental and comic, and is usually successful in eliciting smiles and laughs.I had believed that I had already read all of Montgomery's novels, so it was an agreeable surprise to find one I hadn't.
While no classic, I had a good time reading it.
This is the first L.M. Montgomery book I have read that was less then wonderful.
The beginning of the book seemed to take forever.
There was only a hint of the charm I usually find in her books and that was probably the biggest disappointment.
However, this book highlighted more than usual Montgomery's knack for social commentary.
I loved the bridging in generations of this book and the different perspectives on life which were juxtaposed to really enhance the contrast between those who saw the turn of the century and those who barely remember the first world war.
This was one of the most entertaining books of this genre I have ever read. Montgomery has such a knack for portraying silly, interesting, still very convincing and lifelike characters. And the clan and family dynamics seem true and familiar as ever, showing that people are the same no matter where, and have the same life dreams, hopes, disappointments and wonders in their life. One of my favorite books by Montgomery, Anne and Emily series included. Such a joy to read.
I returned to this book over and over when I was younger. This one is witty and paints vastly different characters quite vividly. I laughed throughout the story at their loves and follies and loved each of their crazy adventures tremendously.
hilarious. Flat out hilarious. Must read for me :)
I forgot about the abundant swearing for a LMM book and racist ending but the humor is still brilliant.
My least favorite of hers. Too many characters, not enough depth.
