https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2037559.Deathworld_1
However, Pyrrus is the most hostile world in the universe, with every life form bent on the extermination of the colonists, even the plant life.I read a few of Harry Harrison's Stainless Steel Rat books years ago and decided to give this one a try.
Jason goes to Pyrrus out of curiosity and winds up leading a revolution of sorts.Deathworld, aka Pyrrus, is a heavy gravity world where the plants and animals are trying to kill the colonists and have been for centuries, evolving at a frightening rate.
The colonists continually try to exterminate the hostile life forms and keep on colonizing.
3. 5 stars. Easy-reading adventuring fun times on the planet of DEATH! This book is every ingredient from pre-1960 sf history stirred into one ridiculous romptastic read. Buff heroes, beautiful lady - (but just the ONE apparently in the ENTIRE WORLD), spaceships, monstrous alien beasts, telepathy, logic and "science" saves the day, with a helping hand from rugged manly devil-may-care hero and his James Bond ethics. All that in 150 pages. And there was even time for gambling, booze and sex. Rock and fucking roll.
Anyway, the most important thing I have to tell you at this point is that this book is in the public domain (first published in 1960) and is free to read online or download as an e-book or an audiobook (links after the review).The setting is Pyrrus, a habitable but inhospitable human-colonized planet with a 2 G gravity and horrendous weather.
The world building is where this book really shines, Pyrrus is a great setting for an old-school sci-fi adventure with danger and monstrosities lurking in every corner, even in a sealed building something can slip through and take your leg off.
The native fauna, and even flora, is so terrifyingly aggressive that the Pyrrhans all use special holsters for their guns to get an extra-fast draw.
I've a feeling that the safety aspects would be hard to debug, but as a 14 year old I loved this detail.So, um, our Jason is going to figure out some kind of gas or robot or radioactive whatever, kill all those nasty alien life-forms, get the girl, and live happily ever after?
If so, why did people ever decide to colonize it?It turns out, to his surprise, that when humans arrived a few hundred years ago the animals weren't dangerous to them at all.
If, as I believe, Bill, the Galactic Hero is a satirical response to books like Heinlein Ra's Starship Troopers and The Forever War by Joe Haldeman, Deathworld is Harrison's original work that looks at how Humanity handles conflict change, crisis and stress (which include war, however it's more likely about the Korean War, since we were not yet fully into Vietnam in 1961).
Of course, unlike those other works that were so clearly an analogy with a message about Stalin, War, and Corruption, this is also a wonderful space adventure story with powerful adversaries, beautiful people and mysteries to uncover.
I quite liked it when I first read it (in German) many years ago.
Now I read it again, for the first time in English, and I have to say I’m still thrilled to visit planet Pyrrus and its inhabitants.
The characters haven’t lost their charm, which comes along as being a little rough sometimes.
Some technical stuff seems a little outdated now, but far from being embarrassing.
I admit I had a little crush on Meta, and although this feeling is long gone she is still my favorite figure.
I have read several of the other reviews of this book and I think the majority have missed the point.
It may be fantasy or science fiction, whatever you might want to call it.
It has flaws, but remember it was written in 1960 when modern Sci-Fy was barely in its infancy and during some of he highest points of the Cold War. Also his first novel!
Most reviewers miss the point I believe Harry was trying to make - how to stop wars.
I read it a long time ago for the first time and I still love it the 2nd time around!
I first read it about a decade after it was published & thought Jason second only to the Stainless Steel Rat for sheer panache.
I've always liked the other 2 books more than this one since they have better, realistic points.
And this was written in 1961.) Still, it's a cheery step up from my last book, Under Western Eyes, but then almost anything would be.
If you like the Stainless Steel Rat, you'll probably like this.
LibriVox has the second of this trilogy (Deathworld 2, aka "The Ethical Engineer"), but not the third & neither does my library.
Enjoyable story about a planet...
In death world the ecology of a planet seems hellbent on killing its human inhabitants to the degree that evolution has steered the plants and animals in such a way that all their offensive and defensive traits are specifically geared towards killing and maiming humans.
The funny thing is the humans have only been on the planet for a few hundred years, not nearly enough time for any kind of evolution to respond to their presence, under normal conditions.
Not only is the gravity twice that of earth, but in order to survive, every city dweller on Pyrrus must constantly be armed and ready to shoot any plant, insect, bird, or animal in sight.The only humans on Pyrrus that do not have to combat the plannet's biota are the so-called "grubbers," who manage to live in peace with the planet.
Harry Harrison's Deathworld 1 is the first volume of the Deathworld Trilogy.
He writes well, and there is a good chance that I will tackle the rest of the trilogy before long.
Tohle je klasika, kterou by mel cist kazdy fanda scifi. Je to kratke a dost primocare. Neni to komplikovana space opera. Prim tu hraje genialne sestavene lego pomerne sablonovitych postav, agresivniho sveta, a unikatniho hlavniho hrdiny. Unikatniho v uvozovkach. Je to jednohubka, neco jako drivejsi Kotleta nebo Kulhanek, ale je to takova scifi, jaka se psala v sedesatkach. Pro me velka nostalgie a navrat do cteciho mladi :)
The only information that holds any promise is the mention of "grubbers", humans living outside the city, to whom the Pyrrans trade hardware for increasingly necessary food.After several weeks, Jason leaves the city in search of the grubbers, who live in harmony with the harsh environment; they are in fact thriving, with numbers well in excess of the city's, despite lacking its advanced technology.
The grubbers hate the city Pyrrans, or "junkmen", for cutting them off from space and refusing to trade food or ore for scientific knowledge or advanced technology—particularly medicine.
Yes the characters are over simplistic, the situations extreme and the storyline technique patronising at times (where he has to explain to the various characters what is going on - a bit like in TV where the hero turns and talks to the camera) but at the same time it has that air of naivety which I think writings from that age can not only hold but also carry off even after all these years which to me is a refreshing change to some of the books published today.
Jason, a mildly psionic gambler is hired to gamble extremely well to finance weaponry for the planet Pyruss, which has an ongoing problem of epically hostile wildlife.
Intrigued, Jason follows his employer home, to a 2G gravity world where even the youngsters can out-gun him.Once Jason gets through Pyrric infants school (every child packing their pistol), he takes on the classic "outsider solves the problem the locals can't see" role and (after quite a lot of death) picks a pathway toward planetary survival.Over 50 years old now, this still holds up as an entertaining read.
And although we only have a single Smurfette, she at least is a spaceship pilot who could crush Jason with one hand.
:)[Also mildly amusing to see this was a Hugo nominee.
You know how there are free books for Kindle, especially older books, maybe especially out-of-print or not-so-widely-read books? And you know how you sometimes have to take a six-hour plane trip somewhere and you know you're not going to sleep? And you know how sometimes you just want mental Cheetos? Yes? I have a book for you.
"Deathworld" Гаррі Гаррісона саме про це, про моральну дилему: боротися з природою інших планет чи увійти з нею в симбіоз, навіть якщо для цього доведеться поступитися частиною своєї ідентичності.Чим вам не філософська проблема, яку доведеться розв'язати нашим дітям чи внукам: як колонізовувати нові планети.
Я пам'ятаю, що прочитав інший цикл Гаррі Гаррісона "Щур з нержавіючої сталі", але і кілька книг циклу "Deathworld" мені вдалося знайти, хоча саме цього першого твору, який ще часто перекладають як "Нестримна планета", не вдалося прочитати раніше, от тільки зараз.
Все це дуже цікаві теми, які будуть цікавити науковців майбутнього.
When Kerk, ambassador from Pyrrus, engages din Alt to multiply a small stake, things get complicated, and the pair flee to Pyrrus, which offers problems of its own.It took me a long time to get to Deathworld, way back when.
When I finally did get around to Harry Harrison, I was pleasantly surprised.
The Deathworld wrist holster in particular stuck in my mind, for some reason.On this return trip, I was even more pleasantly surprised to find that it holds up.
Sure, it's a very 'manly' book, but it's pretty good regardless.
Written as a pair with The Invisible Code.
I did manage after some encouragement from the ranks to get over that and I'm glad I did.
It's a good bad-book.
The Wildside edition I read was horribly proofread, but not nearly as badly as the academic books I've been reading lately.
Nothing, at any rate, that distracted me from a punchy story, good characterisation as sci fi goes and a really interesting idea for world in which the story takes place.As it happens I next picked up The Invisible Code by Christopher Fowler.
Storyline: 4/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 4/5What a cool oldie.
If this had advertised itself as an action-adventure in the lineage of old school science fiction pulp, it wouldn't have attracted my attention in the least.
Holding me back from proclaiming my undying admiration for Deathworld was Harrison's habit of presenting scenes and decisions that were manifestly simple and/or dumb - very much in the style of the 1930s science fiction - only to later reveal that more complex machinations were indeed involved.
Some more backstory, pacing, character development, and this could have been a great action-adventure novel instead of a neat, short one.
Jason quizzes Kerk about Pyrrus and is intrigued when he is told it's the most dangerous planet in the galaxy, that mankind is always at war with every living creature, as well as the whole environment, on the planet.
He goes and while trying to escape the killer animals, a Pyrrun man is killed saving Jason.
He talks to people, asking for their records.
But a semi-friend, while hostile, suggests he ask someone else, so he finds this person and does and he talks to Jason.
I love old school science fiction. These are a little bit dopey, but still a lot of fun. Lots of good gaming ideas.
Rarely do I give a book five stars but it would have been disingenuous not to give Deathworld the highest rating possible.
Jason offers wise words to both factions in the group, such as his notation on why it’s important to have fresh eyes, or even an amateur, look at the problem or obstacle one might be facing: “It’s hard to see the forest with the trees in the way.” Simple, yet surprisingly elegant.
I simultaneously never wanted the book to end and for it to come to a close quickly so that I could discover the answer that Jason provides.
Jason would like to find out.Harry Harrison, best known for his STAINLESS STEEL RAT series, published his DEATHWORLD series as a serial story in Astounding Science Fiction.
A public domain version with a volunteer reader is also available at Librivox, but I have not tried it and can’t vouch for the quality (if you can, please leave a comment).Deathworld feels very much like a standard 1960 science fiction novel with its fast pace, roguish male protagonist, shallow secondary characters, beautiful female, cool gadgets, psi and precog powers, and ecology themes.
The story is entertaining and unpredictable, with an interesting solution to the mystery.One thing I particularly like about Harry Harrison’s stories is that he creates some great female characters, especially for 1960s science fiction.
I feel like its safe to say at this point that I have a certain affection for classic science fiction.
It takes you back to a time where the people's imaginations roamed freely, and there were still new worlds to discover.Such is the case with Harry Harrison's Deathworld.
I'm sure Harrison was at least partially influenced by what was going on around him at that time, but as I'm not into history I couldn't tell you for sure.All I can say is that I enjoyed Deathworld for it's cheesy, adventurous, to-infinity-and-beyond story.
I read this many years ago when I fist discoverd Sci-Fi ... and it was old even then !! Fun, fast and highly enjoyable. The pace is good as is the idea and Mr Harrison knows how to keep you turning the pages. It doesn't warrant a lengthy review, there isn't any depth here, it's just a fun ride. Just as much fun second time around but it seemed way too short this time. So I re-read Deathworld 2 as well :)
Pulpy
It has spawned two immediate sequels and recently it seems Harrison collaborated on several Russian language Deathworld novels which have not (as yet) been released in an English translation.So, Jason da Lint, bored interstellar gambler and psi practitioner is approached by Kerk Pyrrus, a man who wants to use Jason’s unique abilities to win a lot of money in a casino.
There is no attempt made to describe how it might be possible or what psychological consequences may occur.Given that, as mentioned earlier, Aldiss was working on ‘Hothouse’ one would have imagined Harrison employing more imagination in his speed-evolved ecology.
On the Fantasy side of the fence, you have Epic Fantasy with its items of power and dark overlords and evil empires and prophecies and young heroes rising from obscurity to change the universe -- and then you Sword & Sorcery which is much smaller in scale -- one guy (usually) getting into a lot of trouble, and then getting out of trouble, but usually without upsetting the socio-political-economic fabric of society.Science Fiction has Space Opera, with its technological superweapons and dark overlords and evil empires and young heroes rising from obscurity to change the universe -- but there's no terminology that I know of that deals with smaller-scale events.
The whole ecosystem has turned against the humans, starting from animals unbelievably deadly, poisonous and armored to the flora being deadly as well.Jason's vanity is piqued by Kerk's physical superiority, a prerequisite for survival on Pyrrus.
(view spoiler)[The first settlers weren't aware of the psi skills of the flora and fauna.
The local ecosystem uses these skills to detect natural catastrophes early and join their individual forces to escape from these catastrophes.
As a result, the ecosystem identified the settlers as another natural catastrophe, turning their force and psi-induced rapid evolution against them.
Jason Dinalt is a profesonal gambler with psychic powers that helps him in the casinos. He was hired by a man named Kirk Pyrrus. Jason went in to a casino on the job and had to win 3 billion credits for kirk. When he won Jason went with kirk to his home planet. It is a planet known to be a literal death world. The planet of pyrrus has twice earths gravity and every thing on the planet is made to kill humans. Jason finds out that the natives of pyrrus do not know there own history. The only thin
Jason finds out that the natives of pyrrus do not know there own history.
The only thing that the native pyrruns know what they need to do to kill all the animal and plant life that threatens their safety.
As he trys to reveal the secrets of the death world he finds out that there is more to the story than the pyrruns know.
Jason has to stop the war between the pyrruns and the world.
This book is the first installment of the death world series.
It is a good syfy book that I would recommend for anyone that just reads for fun.
