https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/470185.About_Looking
Now, while that is quite to be expected with, say, that K-Pop guy pretending to ride a horse, I’m more interested in things like the most famous article in this collection, Why Look At Animals?
As he says repeatedly in his essay, there was a time when the boundaries between what is human and what is animal were almost impossible to separate.Things tended to change after Descartes – this was due to the 'fact' that animals lacked souls, and so were incapable of thinking and therefore of having a true ground for their existence (his ‘I think therefore I am’).
Graphic work, with its limited means, is more modest; it only claims a single aspect of visual experience, and therefore is adaptable to different uses." (85)"Thus there is a close parallel between pictorial representations of space and the ways in which stories are told." (90)"It would then be far less possible to localize his work, either geographically or historically: emotions are always more general than circumstances." (101)"Thus each painting offers, not an instant view, a postcard, but an amalgam of visual experience, a sequence of memories." (104)"A modern city, however, is not only a place, it is also in itself, long before it is painted, a series of images, a circuit of messages.
CARTA ABIERTA A JOHN BERGER.
Lo que más me gusta de leer tus ensayos, querido John Berger, es que eres exigente.
Me obligas a usar diccionarios, acudir a Google o Wikipedia, me llenas la cabeza con información, nombres, imágenes.
Muchas imágenes.
Me obligas a prestarte atención y me alegro porque, ¿sabes?, consigues que conecte con el arte en sus diferentes vertientes; yo, que aunque lo disfruto de manera casi siempre irracional, con tu ayuda me vuelvo analítica.
'Mirar' es el segundo contacto que tenemos, pero te aseguro, John, que no será el último.
Pienso lamentar tu muerte y agradecer tu legado para siempre.
I had some difficulty with the longer essays in the first section of the book, but strangely, I discovered (after limping through a few pages at a time, week after week) that I was reading the book with too-great attention.
Even with my spotty knowledge of art history, I was able to gain significant insight into the artists discussed in the short essays.
I was not terribly impressed by the long response to Sontag's _On Photography_ (which book I found utterly maddening).
The only large problem I had with this book is that Vintage did a horrible, lousy job of reproducing the examples of photos and paintings.
روزنامه ای مثل ساندی تایمز به چاپ عکس های تکان دهنده درباره ی ویتنام یا درباره ی ایرلند شمالی ادامه می دهد و در ضمن از لحاظ سیاسی حامی سیاست هایی است که مسئول این خشونت اند.
ما یا از اندوه لبریز می شویم یا از خشم.اندوه پذیرش بخشی از رنج دیگری بی هیچ فایده ای است، و خشم عمل را بر می انگیزد.ما سعی می کنیم از لحظه, مجددا به درون زندگی خود بازگردیم.
چون چنین می کنیم، تضاد به قدری است که باز از سر گرفتن زندگی به نظرمان واکنشی نامناسب با آنچه لحظه ای قبل دیده ایم جلوه می کند...!
If you're new to Berger (or to the art world in general), I recommend skipping this and instead picking up "Ways of Seeing." That collection is far more accessible to a general audience.
"About Looking" is full of Berger's insightful and impressive commentary on art and photography.
My knowledge of art history is limited, so when Berger cites a painting, I don't have an image stored in my memory to attach to his essay.
When explaining a work of art, Berger manages to be exquisitely precise and endlessly suggestive. His words somehow translate the visual beauty into beauty on the page, and leave the reader that same feeling of having glimpsed something unworldly and beyond explanation.
Bukti ini jelas bahawa haiwan adalah teman baik manusia sehingga membantu manusia mencari rezeki tetapi telah ditukarkan fungsinya sebagai cuma daging yang memenuhi perut kita sahaja.
Kurun ke-19 mengubah segala-galanya dan kita Berger memberikan contoh yang terbaik dengan menggunakan lukisan dari Grandville bertajuk 'Private Life of Animals' yang dilukis berperingkat dari tahun 1840-1842.
Ianya diperlukan adalah untuk memberikan hiburan yang tidak terhingga supaya dapat merangsang nafsu membeli dan membius segala kecederaan yang terjadi dalam kelas, kaum dan jantina.
Perubahan sosial telah bertukar disebabkan perubahan yang terjadi dalam imej"	Penulisan Berger yang cerdas sangat membantu kita dalam memahami dan memaknai gambar baik lukisan ataupun yang terhasil dari kamera.
John Berger's About Looking is a smart, impassioned, eloquent, and illuminating collection of essays. Highlights for me: the essay "Why Look at Animals," (a reread); the section on photography; and the essays on Francis Bacon, Giacometti, and Rodin. Suffused throughout is Berger's welcome Marxist humanism, reflected in his keen attention to and advocacy for the oppressed and otherwise marginalized.
بسیار خواندنی و بسیارتر عمیق. یک کتابِ نقدِ واقعی. از زمرهی ئیسِی. با ترجمهای نادر و فاخر و کمنظیر. لحنِ و شیوهی مقالات مرا یادِ نریشنهای برنامهی «تماشا»ی «بیبیسیفارسی» میانداخت که البتّه بیراه هم نبود. بِرجِر خودش در بیبیسی یک همچه برنامهای داشته و اصلاً همآن برنامه بوده که شده این کتاب و چه بسا که این شیوهی نگریستنِ او باشد که هنوز هم در برنامههای بیبیسی رواج دارد. باید یاد بگیریم اینشکلِ از نقدکردن را واقعاً. از نشرِ «آگه».
بس‌یار خواندنی و بس‌یارتر عمیق. یک کتابِ نقدِ واقعی. از زمره‌ی ئی‌سِی. با ترجمه‌ای نادر و فاخر و کم‌نظیر. لحنِ و شیوه‌ی مقالات مرا یادِ نریشن‌های برنامه‌ی «تماشا»ی «بی‌بی‌سی‌فارسی» می‌انداخت که البتّه بی‌راه هم نبود. بِرجِر خودش در بی‌بی‌سی یک‌ هم‌چه برنامه‌ای داشته و اصلاً هم‌آن برنامه بوده که شده این کتاب و چه بسا که این شیوه‌ی نگریستنِ او باشد که هنوز هم در برنامه‌های بی‌بی‌سی رواج دارد. باید یاد بگیریم این‌شکل‌ِ از نقدکردن را واقعاً. از نشرِ «آگه».‏
Well I bought this book for the photo essays, I loved it for all the essays. Very insightful and well-written, it, as good criticism does, made me feel my ignorance of that which I didn't know - which was a lot - and made me want to learn more. I should have read it before traveling Paris and Florence: I could have appreciated my museum visits all the more and learned where to look. I will read his other art books as well.
This is the second book by John Berger I have had the good fortune to read. A collection of essays dealing with a variety of issues related to the way in which humans observe the world. The book falls into three sections the largest, the last, dealing specifically with artistic perception.
Berger's book is a series of short essays (each originally published as a column in  New Society ) examining the act of looking at visual culture.
I picked this book up to assist in a project analyzing "the right to look" in several food studies texts.
The first essay, suggested by the cover, engages the act of looking at Zoo animals and Berger's contention that zoo animals do no look back at us.
Berger intervenes in studies of photography and art (painting, sculpture, etc) bringing a marxist frame to various acts of looking engaged at by artist and audience.
All essays in this collection are provoking insights on looking, in all its genres.
I read it for the response essay to Susan Sontag's On Photography ("Uses of Photography").
However, the most interesting and original one turned out to be "Why Look at Animals?" - not just the cultural metaphors animals have been through the ages, but the act of looking at them.
"Photographs of Agony", on the other hand, about photos of violence in the then-current war in Vietnam, reminded me of many discussions on the ethics of photographing violence today - and confirmed my feeling that we are bound to reinvent the wheel every decade...
Descubrí a Berger gracias a mi amiga Rosario.
Me había contado una vez, hablando de las experiencias de mirar animales en Africa, que este libro tenía artículo sobre los animales en el zoológico.
Coincidíamos en que mirar un animal en su "entorno supuestamente natural", te cambia mucho la percepción sobre los bichos y sobre la naturaleza en general.
El libro es maravilloso.
Es el arte de mirar, pero reflexionado de una manera super poética, pausada y reposada.
El primer artículo sobre el análisis visual de una foto que retrata un grupo de músicos de pueblo de ida a un baile...
I read John Berger's Ways of Seeing many years ago and retained the impression that it was a good book.
Then recently, I read an article about him and decided to read more.
So glad I did.
He writes like a poet...
with beauty and insight.
I especially enjoyed 2 essays in the book: Two Colmars, in which he looks at the same altarpiece in visits 10 years apart, and sees his own changes.
The second is Fields...
which is not the same as the postmodern use of the word, but extends to it, while considering the reality of an actual field.
If I ever build up a formidable knowledge and understanding of art history in Western Europe, I will come back to these essays. I was able to understand and relish the essays in the beginning of the book, on war photography, Paul Strand, looking at animals. They were really wonderful in many ways and I hope to read more photography criticism like them. They fascinated me. Reader's delight.
Getting its shape and effect down into words is hard for me. This is a book of art criticism- but the pieces themselves are rarely the point. This book is about life, how we as humans perceive it, how we put that perception to use. Each artist is the window through which we view an aspect of elemental being. I need to read this again, with a pen, so I can underline passages and take notes.
Hit-or-miss collection of essays. Berger's a really good writer, but there's a heavy Marxist slant to his thinking that makes a lot of this book seem dated and difficult to understand. That said, his essay "Why Look at Animals?" is terrific, one of the best I've read.
the essay "looking at animals" is really fascinating. chances are you'll have some problems with what Berger has to say about looking (at women in particular), but if you are interested in visual culture and spectacle, you'll get much from reading this book.
illuminating, and provides lucid, deep insights in the way that John Berger does. must read for beginners to art, more so than 'Ways of Seeing' I thought.
This book has been with me for years. I've read it several times and the re-reads always bring fresh insights on the relationship of art and culture, notably capitalist culture. Highly recommended.
اونقدر دوستش داشتم که به کسی که فکر می کردم بیشتر از من دوستش خواهد داشت هدیه دادمش. بی پشیمانی.
I suppose writing a book called "About Looking" (2011) is the natural sequel after releasing a TV series titled "Ways of Seeing" (1972).
"About Looking" is increasingly more specific, in the shape of essays which examine methods of looking and how certain artists have turned observation into art, and has served to me as an introduction to art history and theory.
From there follow two series of essays, on more abstract concepts of photography and individual artists.
I would not read art history in any way other than this personal examination of the work of different artists.
one of the better things i have read this summer. intriguing essays. to a novice, without references or existing knowledge of X artist's work, some essays were not fully impactful. still, even while ignorant, essays provide something to think about. Berger's approach to writing is not academic which make for a pleasant read. interesting meditations. best moments are when Berger frames something (photography, zoos, etc.) and unspoken unsettling things get a name and are brought into the light. last essay about the preverbal feeling of certain experiences in certain fields encapsulates and highlights this function of Berger's writing
I was recommended this by a prof when I asked readings that explored the philosophy of vision.
Ironically it apparently inspired The Third Hotel by Laura van den Berg which I picked up while I was working my way through this - synchronicity?
Anyhoots, I quite enjoyed the first 2 sections - the last, on painting was a little bit less philosophical and was applicable to me for a examination of the role of vision in consumer culture.
I think the first two thirds are super relevant and accessible - would recommend this to anyone interested in anticapitalism studies as well as studies in the visual arts.

Beautiful essays that penetrate art from every way, exploring the possibilities of interpretation and the limits of psychological inquiry. Berger is always careful, always attentive and alway precise of both the content and the rhetoric of each of his pieces. Easy to read, but difficult to digest, I also of course can't help reading them in his voice. Gotta get my hands on more of his books!!
Algunas cosas no las he entendido bien porque soy medio tonta y otras no me han interesado mucho (la escultura no sé por qué pero meh), sin embargo la mayoría de los artículos son muy claros y con observaciones agudísimas. No va sólo sobre arte sino sobre el mundo y la política. Gracias Berger por hacerme un poquín más culta.
Most of the art works described are not included in the book, forcing the reader to search for the works online, or from other sources, so I consider the book incomplete.
