https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36274218-the-death-and-life-of-charlie-st-cloud
“And how many millions and millions of people were there in the world like Charlie, who couldn’t let go of their loved ones when they were gone?” What a wonderful and comforting read.
Thirteen years later Charlie is working in the local cemetery, meeting his brothers spirit everyday at sundown for a game of catch.
When he meets Tess Carroll, Charlie feels a part of himself begin to thaw.
The mysterious part is - if Tess has been missing for over 48 hours, how did Charlie meet her?
“Too many people die a little when they lose someone they love.”
It was like if Nicholas Sparks and that guy who wrote The 5 People you Meet In Heaven got drunk, had a baby, and made the baby write a book.
That being said, this baby, or author sure knows how to write for the masses.
Its like he gathered every trite description of the afterlife/ghostly time spent on earth and crammed it into one book.
So my question is why so many references to God when the character was alive, but not really any when they died.So, unless you like that kind of stuff, I suggest re-gifting it to your mom, or your local cat lady.PS...
I checked the blurbs and all the famous current bestselling authors are saying something good about the book: Sue Monk Kidd says one of the most magical stories I've ever read; Adriana Trigiana this is a story that will grip you from page one; James Patterson You won't forget Charlie and Tess and Sam; Luanne Rice A perfect miracle of a love story and even the novelist who I hate most, Nicholas Sparks, says: Touching, wise, and full of hope, everything a wonderful novel should be.So, I bought the book and read it the whole day today, Sunday, August 8, 2010.
Charlie looses everything closest to him, and he leaves his life behind to take a job working at the local cemetery, and realizes he was given a gift.
He makes a promise to his little brother that they will always be together, and keeps this promise by meeting him in the clearing every dusk to play catch.
Soon, Tess Carroll, enters Charlie's life, and he looses himself in her.
Just as everything seems to be figured out, another accident impacts Charlie's life.
This book is pretty close to the movie, heartwarming characters, and a bold flavor of faith, makes this a "feel good" book.
Never, until I opened Charlie St. Cloud, has a book interrupted my life.
I ignored the laundry and forgot about the dishes because I needed to know what happen to Charlie, Sam and Tess.
I was sucked into the world Ben Sherwood created and I loved every minute of it.Okay, Zac Efron’s face on the cover made me pick up the book, but the story inside more than satisfied.
The unexpected twists fulfilled the need for depth and the bond between characters warmed my heart and softened my soul.The underlining story is one to learn from: holding on to the past disrupts the person within you…Brilliant!One can only hope the movie is as gripping (*everybody laughs*).
When Charlie St. Cloud was fifteen years old, a tragic accident that involved "borrowing" a neighbor's car, a trip to a ballgame, and an encounter with a semi-trailer on a bridge led to the death of his three years younger brother, Sam. In fact, Charlie was technically "dead" for minutes before his heart started beating again--no one knows for sure, but this might be why Charlie lives the life he does.
CLOUD is unlike any book I've ever read before--it's a character study of human nature, of brotherly love, of the ingrained desire in most people to help their fellow man.
Opening Line:"Charlie St. Cloud wasn't the best or brightest boy in Essex County, but he was surely the most promising"I read this a few years ago but after recently seeing the movie I was reminded of how much I’d liked this story and decided I had to revisit Charlie St Cloud and his little brother Sam. Even though I knew the big reveal this time through I was still able to immerse myself completely in this magical, moving journey from death back to life.
This was a great book about the possibilities of finding your soul mate when you least expect it and about an unbreakable bond between two brothers.
It has everything I love in a good story, including a splash of paranormal delivered with events and possibilities that make you wonder what truly happens with life after death.
Charlie and Sam St. Cloud are brothers not only bonded by blood but also a fatal car accident that sends Sam to the life in between and Charlie back to the here and now grieving for his little brother.
After the car accident, Charlie is graced with the gift of seeing people in between life and death.
'The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud,' by Ben Sherwood is a story of loss, grief, love, and the afterlife.
But Charlie has not moved on with his life since Sam's death.
Meeting Tess causes Charlie to ask himself the question of whether he can move forward, releasing himself and Sam from the past.
It's a good, solid book and I enjoyed reading that the author had put a lot of time and energy into the research that went into making the book.
While I enjoyed this book a lot, my critique would be that the characters could have used a little more development.
i read this book really fast because i had to know what was going to happen next! i actually cried towards the end. it's like the sixth sense without being creepy. i really want to see this movie!
Description: “The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud” tells the haunting story of a young man who narrowly survives a terrible car wreck that kills his little brother.
Charlie and Tess discover a beautiful and uncommon connection that leads to a race against time and a desperate choice between death and life, between the past and the future, between holding on and letting go.wow.
Charlie was a wonderful character and I fell in love with Sam, his little brother because he was sort of the comedic relief throughout the story.
I did think that the main characters, Tess and Charlie, were a little old for my taste...I think they were in their 30's.
Knowing that the movie was first a book, like always, I felt that I needed to read before renting.
Since then, Charlie St. Cloud by Ben Sherwood had ruled my life.
Charlie St. Cloud survives a car accident that took his younger brother Sam's life.
One of these spirits is his younger brother that he has promised to never leave.
Even though the book is simply written, it is littered with the age old battles between life and death, faith and knowledge, holding on and letting go, as well as the past and the future.
I really wanted to like this book, the premise was exciting and I was ready to be swept away to a world of fantasy, mystery and romance.I was disappointed though, I found the characters stereotypical and the plot predictable and cheesy. The whole book felt like a set up for a Hollywood movie. The book promises ghosts, intrigue and a unique point of view, but delivers the same old romantic comedy that's been done a million times over.
"There's a reason for everything, you said, and though it's a mystery to me now, I know it won't always be so." You know those books that just scream "weekend binge read"? This was one of those. It was short (under 300 pages), with an interesting plot, and an adorable MC. It completely immerses you in the New England mind set, complete with sail boats, lush foliage, pretty people with deep pockets, and clam bakes. Honestly, it left me yearning for some time up north. For those who missed the mo
When they get in a car accident, Sam, Charlie's younger brother, is killed.
Even though once Tess comes in, the bromance between Charlie and Sam takes the back seat, this book is very much about the profound bond between the brothers in the beginning and periodically throughout the story.
I've always had a soft spot for relationships in novels between two people who love each other, truly and deeply, without the promise of romance.
A quick, enjoyable read with a lovely dash of romance, northeastern scenery, paranormal factors, and an overall great story.
I loved this story. It was very sweet and sad. I absolutely adored the movie. I'm a huge Zac Efron fan and though he's not as old as the character of Charlie in the book, I think they made the right decision in casting him. He's one of the very few young actors who can do romance seriously. In fact I can only think of three, Zac, Leonardo DiCaprio, and Heath Ledger. If you haven't seen 17 again I highly encourage you to. I was actually disappointed when Chandler showed up again.
A nice, feel-good, supernatural romance. This is an easy read and somewhat predictable. Life, death, grief, love, and eventually acceptance and moving on are all themes covered in this story. An enjoyable, quick read.
FULL REVIEW HERE: https://mythoughtsareablog.com/2018/0...Trust your heart if the seas catch fire and live by love though the stars walk backwards.” ― Ben Sherwood, The Death and Life of Charlie St. CloudOkay back to book reviews we go!This is my first review of 2018 and it’s for the last book I read in 2017!
I really enjoyed how Sherwood progressed her story and I think a lot of people are going to fall in love with her arc and how it intertwines with Charlie’s.As for Sam…poor little Sam. I mean, I knew he was going to be a ghost for most of the book, but it still hurt me to see him not growing up.
We'd been discussing the book "The Time Traveller's Wife" and she mentionned I might like this book as a result.Reading the synopsis I didn't know how to interpret the part about "he is faced with a choice - between life and death, the past and the present, holding on and letting go".
Without giving too much away, I was reminded of The Lovely Bones and The Time Traveller's Wife with the way the book flicked from various perspectives.
Since I decided I had to see the movie,(My little sister and I love to drool over Zac Efron) of course I had to read the book first.The book starts out with a car accident that takes Charlies little brother sam from this world but keeps him in it.
He manages the Waterside cemetary, talks to the spirits on thier way to the next life, and plays catch with his little brother at sundown every single day.The reader meets Tess Carroll, a spunky, danger seeking sailor who plans to be one of the top ten women who have ever sailed around the world.
I read The death and life of Charlie St. Cloud  because a friend encouraged me to read it and go see the movie with her.
Charlie St. Cloud looses his brother Sam in an accident, but is still able to see him and play ball with him every night, because of a promise he made to his brother.
But then he meets Tess Caroll and everything changes, forcing Charlie to reexamine his life and future for the first time since Sam died.
Throughout the novel the author tries to instill the local character of Marblehead and the North Shore of Boston, however, I think he went a little overboard.
Charlie St. Cloud the troubled guy who always felt responsible for the death of his little brother and never let go.
I had guessed early on that Tess was a ghost but I wasn't fully sure of my guess until it was confirmed later in the book.
I thought the characters were good and that she made Charlie into the guy that everybody would want to know, the only problem was that he wasn't letting go and because of this he wasn't the great kind of guy he should have been.
This was an enjoyanble book and I'm looking forward to watching the movie.
This was a good one - I became intrigued by the movie trailer, then found out about the book. It was enjoyable, but not necessarily a book that I couldn't put down.
The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud.Author: Ben SherwoodMain Characters: Tess, Sam and CharlieTWO STARS It’s been a long time since I read because of my schedule and consecutive examinations.
I like how Ben Sherwood plays with the character of Charlie who is in the verge of living and dying, the internal conflict of the book that made me crave for more, made me want to continue to read it.
I loved the movie!
3.7 stars out of 5.Wise, beautiful, touching, and makes you feel all the warmth of the world.
My journey reading The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud was a little bit bumpy.
That's something that I don't regret at all.The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud was just such a sweet book.
I knew there was going to be romance involved, but again, I thought the bigger deal was the brothers.
Again I say that I did like the romance, but I would've loved this book so much more had the author delved into the brothers' relationship a little more deeply.
I read this mostly because it looked and sounded interesting to me.
I don't always fall for the hyped up books - in fact, unless it does interest me in some way I couldn't make myself read it.
Charlie and Tess are both characters you can really cling to and hope and wish for.
I like Ben Sherwood's take on crossing over.
I'd certainly give a favorable opinion to anyone asking me my thoughts on the story and I'd even recommend if the opportunity arose.
I'd like to remember the story as I remember it now.
Occasionally it felt like it should have just been a movie rather than a book (I haven't actually seen the movie, although I would like to), mostly because I get annoyed when someone is described, for example, as "charming"-- don't tell me, SHOW me them being charming and let me grow to like that character for myself!
The same goes for long descriptions of how good-looking the two main characters are--it gets annoying and they feel less real to me.
But if the movie is any good, you could probably just see it and not bother with the book!
Charlie St. Cloud is a gentle soul of a man who works as a caretaker in his town's cemetary.
She encounters Charlie St. Cloud and is instantly attracted to the handsome young man.
Now Charlie has a decision to make: Get on with his life and allow himself the joys of new love with Tess or hang on to Sam for fear he might fade away and leave him completely.
But Tess can't wait around forever and Charlie must help her, too, because things aren't what they seem.Ben Sherwood writes a beautiful story of living, loving and letting go.
Before they decided to make this book into a movie, The name of the book originally was "The Death And Life Of Charlie St.Cloud".
So I guess they shorten the title when they decided to make the movie.I really liked this book.
But I didn't even realize I finished it until I started reading acknowledgments in one of its chapters.
So I went back to read the previous chapter and I honestly did NOT like the ending.
I felt like the book was left unfinished.
I was disappointed in the end However I'll recommend this book if you like a good romance.
