https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/379499.Sombrero_Fallout
But he could still write and this book certainly proved it.It has been said that Sombrero Fallout was written in response to his breakup with his Chinese girlfriend Siew-Hwa Beh. The pain of separation from her and the now unrequited fantasy of having an Asian woman in his bed and at his side was something Brautigan was not equipped to cope with.
Recently I completed my reading of the long and drawn out biography Jubilee Hitchhiker: The Life and Times of Richard Brautigan by William Hjortsberg and one cannot walk away from this book and still deny the disease that was ravaging for years the mind and body of this poor man.

Brautigan is always a breath of fresh air. Sombrero Fallout is as brief (an hour to read from cover to cover) as it is bizarre. The conceit is not entirely coherent, but it is original, sincere, and interesting. The novel is a great catharsis for the author, as well as being a very heartfelt and poignant account of a difficult break-up.
What can i do sometimes?
There seems to be a darker message to this story than it just being a wacky story about a Japanese woman, a hair, a sombrero and the fallout.Intelligently crafted humor with a literary work of sorts that catches the readers thoughts and memory.
From a sombrero to an obsession with a beautiful Japanese woman and her strand of hair to a fear of tuna.“Why did the American humorist have such a big problem with tuna fish?
One of my favorite books, Sombrero Fallout alternates two stories into one -- between 1.) a frozen sombrero that mysteriously falls from the sky into a small town causing a commotion and 2.) a writer's obsession with a Japanese ex, whose well-illustrated dreams of her father and familiar places are guided by the bedside purring sounds of her cat in marathon bouts of sleep.
Here is one of my favorite passages: "I will be very careful the next time I fall in love, she told herself.
I could say the book is dangerously distracting, but I'm sure I'll risk my life to read it again and again, regardless.
My introduction to Brautigan came when his play on genre fiction in Hawkline Monster and Dreaming of Babylon caught my eye, and whilst those works were impressive, somewhat whimsical and eccentric Sombrero Fallout is a whole new realisation as to the quality of the man's vision for what literature could be.
It's an odd choice, what with the brief length, the percentage of blank pages and the empty spaces that seem to be a trademark of a Brautigan publication and yet it's a book that will almost certainly reveal much more with repeated readings unlike one of the more traditional choices, a book more dense that explains every thought and action of every character for example.They say Brautigan was losing his mind whilst writing Sombrero Fallout, exacerbated by the loss of his lover.

بارش کلاه مکزیکی آخرین آثری است که از براتگان به فارسی ترجمه شده و همین چند هفته پیش هم روانه ی بازار کتاب شد.
انتشار رمان تازه ای از براتیگان؟ چه خبری برای دوست دارانِ براتیگان از این بهتر؟ تا اینجا همه چیز خوب است، اما وقتی کتاب را می گیری و شروع به خواندن می کنی انتظاراتت یکهو نقش بر آب می شوند.
بارش کلاه مکزیکی فضای سردی دارد، در آن از شوخی های جذاب براتیگان خبری نیست و به طور کلی با یک براتیگان بدبین طرف هستیم.
This is a funny brautigan burlesque.A tale about acheing/pining for a lost Japanese lover who is gone, never to return, her purring cat, the lover's hair and the torn-up remnants of a story which becomes self-aware and writes the rest of its own story after being confined to the waste paper basket.In the wastepaper basket story, which runs parallel with the narrative of what is happening in 'true reality', the situations gets out of hand over a -24 degree sombrero
Reads like a diamond with 187 pages glued on it.
you might not like the story (you f***ing better) but, for the love of bowie, ain't that the prettiest cover you've ever seen?!
From 1976 to 1984 is eight years, which is a long time to camp your finger out on the Himalayas of a trigger.
Waking up some mornings can feel like the eight years between sitting in a lawn chair on your neighbor's yard on the Independence Day Bicentennial gawking at the fireworks in the sky and sitting in front of your television to watch the Raiders tromp the Redskins 38-9 in Superbowl 18.
It's like there being nothing else in the sky or on TV for that long-ass stretch of days and days.
This is my first time reading Brautigan, who everyone keeps raving to me about.I really enjoyed this novel. It's not perfect, but it inspired me enough to begin a new novel after reading just a few pages, and that's not nothing.Funny, lovely, and interesting. It's absurd and it's great. Very interested in reading more by him.
MEANWHILE BACK IN the waste-paper basket --  what a way to start a chapter!
The book shifts from the author to the woman and then into the story developing in the waste-paper basket.
Nothing much happens in the "real life" stories: the writer is paralyzed by his revolving thoughts, the woman is simply sleeping, but Brautigan draws a brilliant picture of a relationship that is going nowhere.
But what more is there to say?Meanwhile back in the waste-paper basket the story is moving forward.
But then the story of the humourist is also fictional.But what about the sombrero?
I read the book without this little tidbit, and I found work lacking at every level save one: It is a fair attempt at describing an acid trip, after it has been translated through several languages and losing "something" in every one.If the work depends upon knowing this bit of information about the author's life, then it is an incomplete work at best and a travesty of literary letters at worst.
The writer decides he doesn't like the story, so he rips up the paper and throws it in the bin, where it takes on a life of its own.
From then on the novel switches between the writer, who continues to obsess about his ex; the Japanese woman herself, who is having a dream; and the sombrero thread, in which the original argument escalates into a full scale riot with massive bloodshed.The early part of the sombrero thread is really very funny, but it turns quite disturbing before the humour is re-asserted near the end, when the author works in a hilarious appearance by Norman Mailer.
'An Unfortunate Woman' mentioned Japanese culture a few times, the protagonist visiting a Japanese cemetary, for instance, so I was interested to read 'Sombrero Fallout' next, as part of the story involves the break-up of a relationship between an American Humourist and his Japanese lover.
Can't say that after reading this I know any more about Brautigan's fascination with Japan, but there are more books to read in order to find out.
I loved the fact that 'Sombrero Fallout' was so quick to read.
I also found it interesting reading about the riots when in Egypt the people are in the midst of a real revolution.
¡Es un libro maravilloso!
I recently finished Richard Brautigan’s Sombrero Fallout, and although I’m a bit of a Brautigan fan (I’ve read and enjoyed In Watermelon Sugar, The Hawkline Monster and Dreaming of Babylon) I have to report that I’m very much in two minds about this one.I absolutely love the thread about the lovelorn author pining for his lover.
well, I’m really sorry to have to say I didn’t like that part much at all.As anyone even remotely familiar with Brautigan’s work will know, his writing is mischievously frivolous and delightfully absurd.
But that aside, I’m glad I read the book for the story of the lovesick author.
When I first read him I was also hungrily eating up all of Barthelme, which I still do, and this forces me to ask why it is I left Brautigan behind?
Come to think of it, Barthelme is the one who finally broke my Hemingway crush...
To be more specific (and possibly more general...): Sombrero Fallout reads like Etgar Keret writing an episode of The A-Team.
It also reads like a book about writing, and how writing works, without being at all annoyingly "meta." I hate annoyingly meta.
All he had to do was go to a large local public library, and he would have found Richard Brautigan's books on the shelves.
I am surprised because I thought that he knew about common people, and therefore should know that one of the great boons of civilisation is the access to books, free of charge, in a local library.Richard Brautigan's writing is like a fine wine.
Everything matters, including the layout of the words, because that is how the story is brought together.
My first experience of Richard Brautigan, and looking at the reviews on Goodreads many readers are very enthusiastic indeed about him and his writing.
The narrator is trying to write a novel whilst agonising about the recent breakup with his Japanese girlfriend.
In despair he throws his manuscript into the wastepaper basket – where it magical continues to write itself.
I think I must be missing something as I wasn’t all that engaged by the novel, certainly not as much as some readers, and yet…the story is sitting there in my mind and I’m almost tempted to re-read it.
Funny, surreal, bizarre, imaginative and, at times, crushingly poignant.Sombrero Fallout, in terms of story and content, deserves five stars.
Sadly, it had to be docked a star due to the lack of grammar; although I would not attribute this issue solely to Brautigan.
All too often I come across notable books - some of which have been around for several decades - that, for some mysterious reason, don't appear to have been proof-read for grammatical errors.Nevertheless, if you can look past the lack of commas, this is a fantastically entertaining book.
I'm looking forward to reading more Richard Brautigan books.

The first Richard Brautigan book I have read, although I have been interested in reading his work for a couple of years.
I liked Sombrero Fallout almost immediately.
In a sense, nothing much actually happens in this novel, even though it features a riot in a small town that gets out of hand and rapidly involves the state police, the national guard and federal paratroopers.
This riot is framed by another story involving a writer of humorous literature who has recently split up with his Japanese girlfriend.
The absurdism (of the prose and the situations) is delightful.
I will definitely seek out more Brautigan.
Sombrero Fallout is one of the best Brautigan novels I have read yet. Though a quick read, I took my time - wanting to savor the chapters and postpone finishing the book. There are two story lines that beautifully entwine and complement each other, and the chapters are so well-crafted that they could function as individual, poetic vignettes.From the chapter entitled "Avocado":"If he taught all his worries to sing, they would have made the Mormon Tabernacle Choir sound like a potato."
داستان در مورد نویسنده ای است که مشغول نوشتن خطوط اولیه یک رمان است ولی از آنجایی که دوست دختر ژاپنی اش ترکش کرده است نمی تواند افکارش را متمرکز کند و درنتیجه کاغذ را در سطل آشغال می اندازد. در سطل آشغال داستان برای خودش ادامه پیدا می کند و نویسنده هم غرق افکار خود در رابطه با دوست دخترش می شود. داستان درون سطل آشغال و افکار نویسنده به موازات هم پیش می روند. مدتها بود از خواندن کتابی چنین لذت نبرده بودم.
dude, take another hit. please. for me.
Poetic and beautiful. If you ever memorized the lines of someone's face, you'll get it.
