https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1476658.Bertram_Cope_s_Year
Nearby, turning gray with paunch, aesthete Basil Randolph sighs hopefully, "If these lads only knew what a friendly hand might do for their future." Bertram soon tells his special pal, Arthur Lemoyne, "I must cultivate a few of the little arts myself...they seem necessary." To his befuddlement, Bertram finds himself engaged to a young woman who misreads his consideration.
Nip it,  now," Lemoyne censors.The wit is consistent as Medora and Basil ponder Bertram's future.
Having met Bertram's parents, Medora says dismissively, "They add nothing to him." Basil reminds her, "Charm, like guilt, is personal." --- ---Lamenting "the many literary reputations buried in America," Carl Van Vechten once asked Fuller, who'd written several books, about further efforts.
I’m ever-so-gently inching back from my string of 5 star reviews in a feeble attempt to attain some sort of legitimacy knowing, full well, that’s it’s often your fault that I’m reading as many good books as I am.
Anyone’s ultimate interest, including Cope’s, remains determinedly subtle.Through a series of mishaps, Cope somehow becomes engaged, somehow attracts the amorous attentions of both Medora’s niece and her secretary, and gains the special privilege and favor of Randolph, before all wander off-stage to their respective fates/lives/loves/whatevers.The novel has been called the ‘first American gay novel’ and it may be, but its gayness is veiled, certainly nothing like Forster’s Maurice.
Cope’s plump friend Arthur says a “dumpy” forty-five.
I can’t stomach dinner party right thing to say as a way of life and each step away from Medora was a relief.
Medora says Cope is charming twenty-three times.
I wish that at least one of Medora’s menagerie of meek university girls didn’t fancy climbing into the matrimonial noose with Cope.
It didn’t occur to Cope that Medora and her brother Randolph wanted to bathe in his aura of youth at all.
Arthur is young too and they don't like him.
the year is 2013. Bertram Cope contemplated (view spoiler)[Goodreads (hide spoiler)] censorship. he threw up. I still fucked him.
They all openly compete for his time and affections until he is compelled to summon Arthur Lemoyne, his hometown sweetheart, to extract him from their romantic designs on him.While the homosexuality of Bertram, Arthur and Basil Randolph (the admiring professor) is never stated outright and is presented extremely coyly by modern standards, there is no doubt what these characters are all about.
There’s something quite refreshing in reading a story about a gay man without tragedy or sermonizing.
Quite the contrary in fact, Fuller writes with a breezy facility that makes the story bounce along apace.
His novel of Chicago, The Cliff Dwellers, is probably his best known, but late in his life in 1919 at the age of sixty-two he published Bertram Cope's Year about a young (twenty-seven year old) English instructor at a Middle Western university (admittedly modeled after Northwestern University).
Cope's involvement with these characters and their crowd leads him into complicated social situations with young women who are unaware of his attachment to a young man, Arthur Lemoyne.
The natural way that Bertram and Arthur live a life that mimics a young married couple is just one of the surprising aspects of this stylish novel of manners.
The subtlety with which the novel is written is what really makes the book so exceptional.
Nothing is ever directly said or written about Bertram's status and the male friend he lives with.
At times the writing is very current especially in the interaction between Randolph and Joe Foster, the wheelchair bound tenant.
The two of them spend much time making many bitter catty observations about the male youth (about Bertram in particular) and its many faults and its disregard for the older male generation that they are both part of.
There’s even an older man named Basil Randolph who frequents these get-togethers looking for young men from the university to “mentor,” and is frustrated by Bertram’s constant passive-aggressive rebuffs.At home, however, Bertram writes to his friend Arthur Lemoyne, telling him how much he misses him and wants to see him.
Locals are a little surprised when Arthur is cast in the role of a woman in the musical, but they naively don’t read much into it.
The novel ends with Bertram graduating with his degree and going back home without Arthur, who made an overt pass at one of the male members of the musical cast.
This book is one of my favorites.
It immediately involves the reader into a world long since past.
It is as much a cutural primer as it is a narrative.
What capitivates a modern reader is the ageless psychological struggles that we face today - and will, no doubt - tomorrow.
Young, old; talented, beautiful; straight-laced, artistic - just a few of the dichotomies found within its pages.
The book was self-published in 1919 - the author was 62 at the time.
This is an easy read and if you like "period" settings - then this is definately the book for you.
The ladies live with the matron Medora Phillips who engineers many of the encounters between Bertram, the young ladies and Basil Randolf, the older man.This is written in a very different style of writing than I'm accustomed to from modern fiction.
Basil on the other had was hoping to attract Bertram to his own cause.It never got to the point where I lost myself in the story and felt that I could not put the book down as I often get with more modern novels.
Hopefully, within our lifetimes, the scenarios that play out due to closeting within this book will become to be seen as improbable and unrealistic. I love the line between humor and seriousness that has to be used to show the constrictions of the society these characters inhabit.
Beautiful and beautifully written story from the early 1900s. Clearly a gay story, but very subtly handled.
Cope, the socially inexpert but intensely good-looking scholar from downstate, is in over his head from practically the first page, and although he does eventually appear to escape the clutches of compulsory heterosexuality (as well as a more wistful May-December gay romance), it is not due to any emotional adroitness on his part.The decoding of Cope's sexuality (or, perhaps, romantic affinity; it seems practically impossible that any of these people have ever had sex) seems to have defeated many readers at the time, although of course Carl Van Vechten blabbed about it; it seems screamingly obvious today, but you have to know what you're looking for: gaydar is mostly just remembering that gay people exist.The suburban university town, by the way, is a few blocks north of where I live.
I do hope you'll be as delighted with it as I was for what it is : a charming story.Bertram Cope is an instructor in a university next to the fictional town of Churchton, he gives himself a year to better his prospects and finish his thesis and that's the year we spend with him.
Maybe also because a lot of the story is seen through their eyes.The homosexuality angle here is "obviously subtle", there is nothing plainly said, but it isn't unsaid to the point one guesses...
I know at the time of publishing this was bold, but in a modern point of view it makes the story sweet and, to repeat myself, subtle.This is a beautiful piece of literature and I loved it dearly.
This was a good book.
My best friend lent me a copy of this several summers ago while I was reading Brideshead Revisited because there are some...
Bertram Cope is writing his thesis at a university closing resembling Northwestern when he meets Medora Phillips, who takes a great interest in the young man and begins inviting him to her lavish home where three young women are in residence.
But while the ladies seem to take interest in Cope he has eyes only for his friend and housemate, Arthur Lemoyne.
However the modern reader should be aware they will be exposed to "a liberal exhibition of perfect teeth" from a character who has "a high degree of self-possession, even of insouciance." If you like the flowery 'literary' style of the time period you find "a beaming affalbility"...your "happy allotment".
However most modern readers will probably find the style off-putting, stilted or even unreadable.
Modern readers should also be aware that homosexuality was illegal and highly taboo at that time and the novel contains only the most circumstantial references to it.
In short it's a remarkable book best left to literary majors and historians.
Bertram Cope is a young man who's gone off to study at college and quickly taken in by Medora Phillips, a wealthy society woman.
Bertram falls into their world quickly and Mrs. Phillips tries her best to set him up with several of the eligible young women in her circle.
But Bertram's focus is only on Arthur, his friend and eventual housemate.
But not everyone is as enamored of Arthur as Bertram is, and that can prove to be a problem.This book is definitely a product of its time, having been written in 1918.
I did not technically finish this book, but Goodreads won't let it only be in my "gave-up-on" folder. This is one of the most boring books about college life I've ever read. Very little actually happens. I read half of it, I gave it a good chance. Was a snoozer.
A fascinating, subtle story about two men living together in an early 20th-century American college. Then as now, partners of faculty must suffer many fools.
Loved it. Though Bertram is not always clearly defined and the ending a bit unclear, I loved the book as a whole and its depiction of life in that time period.
Amazing that this exists -- and it's nice to read. As explicit as Maurice (with which it is roughly contemporary), no, but remarkably obvious to the eyes of hindsight.
I think this forgotten gem would appeal to fans of EF Benson. There is the same gentle humour with a sting in the tail and the same social posturing.
