https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280991.Death_in_a_White_Tie
Was good though 😊And now it is tonight, so....Right, now for some reason I have fallen out of love with Roderick Alleyn, I was keeping up well with the challenge for the first 6 months then for some reason it has taken me another 4 months to get to number 7, and I don't know why.This was really good and I thoroughly enjoyed both the story and the characterisations, but, and there is a but, to me it is not Agatha Christie.
Death at the Dolphin was my favourite as a young reader, but this title was a first time read for me & this now feels like my favourite Marsh novel.The main reason is it is a good story, well told & Marsh seems to have some understanding of the world of debutantes.
So possibly Marsh grew up understanding the conventions.
& I think the debutantes' restricted world would have been theatrical in it's intensity.What made this book more enjoyable for me is Alleyn's relationship with both Fox & Troy was far more natural than in the other Alleyn novels.
Description: The season had begun. Debutantes and chaperones were planning their luncheons, teas and balls. And the blackmailer was planning his strategies, stalking his next victim. But Chief Detective Inspector Alleyn knew that something was up."https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=raP7U...Sometimes a Golden Age whodunnit is my only weakness.3* A Man Lay Dead (Roderick Alleyn, #1)2* Enter a Murderer (Roderick Alleyn, #2)3* The Nursing Home Murder (Roderick Alleyn, #3)WL Death in Ecstasy (Roderick A
Description: The season had begun.
Debutantes and chaperones were planning their luncheons, teas and balls.
And the blackmailer was planning his strategies, stalking his next victim.
There is a blackmailer on the loose, who is able to mix with ease among the glamorous members of those attending those endless, glamorous balls, parties, opera and theatre shows, and Alleyn is keen to uncover their identity.This is an interesting Golden Age mystery for a couple of reasons.
There are those, like the garrulous Lord Robert Gospell, who enjoys the Season and those, such as the young lady, the wonderfully named, Mrs Halcut-Hackett, is bringing out, who oathes every second of it.
That still happened, but the victim – and many of the suspects – are linked to Alleyn, socially, if not always as a friend, so that gave a different dimension to the plot.
Later, about twenty years ago, I read some of them again and Death in a White Tie was one simply because it's one of my favorites.
And Marsh presents us with one of the most sympathetic victims--who doesn't want Bunchy's killer found and punished to the full extent of the law?The story begins with Inspector Roderick Alleyn asking Lord Robert "Bunchy" Gospell to assist him in tracking down a despicable blackmailer who is at work among the cream of London society.
Competent audiobook narrator, but a rather strange, tinny quality to the recording quality itself.You can spot the murderer in this one if you spot the lie, but it's only by knowing the lie that I ever spot it. I get very annoyed at nephew Donald whenever I read this. Everyone describes him as a nice young chap, but he consistently behaves as such an ass that I don't think he's got much soundness in him at all.
I think this is the first Alleyn mystery where I genuinely felt for the victim, which helped greatly in my enjoyment of the story.
It's the first one where you spend part of the book following the victim closely, too, and where Alleyn has personal feelings on the matter, both of which I think are relevant.
I still can't help but feel he's a cut rate Wimsey.
I know I'm biased as a major fan of Sayers already, but I can't help the feeling.
I felt I had a vested interest in accompanying the detective, Roderick Alleyn, as he tracks down the killer.
The novel features a handful of despicable characters besides the murderer, and Marsh is expert in concocting scenes in which they get their comeuppance.Detective fans are infamous for not wanting an excessive love interest.
The reason is that these romantic subplots are often not integrated very well with the rest of the plot.
This, unfortunately, is the case here.
For a successful integration of a romance with detection, see E.C. Bentley's Trent's Last Case.
As we continue our survey of the books of Ngaio Marsh, we get to what is perhaps my favorite book, 1938’s Death in a White Tie. Someone has been actively blackmailing socialites amid those “doing the season,” when debutantes go to balls to look for a husband.
Bunchy, around the age of 50, is popular with everyone of all ages who go to events in the season, making him ideal to help with the investigation.
Alleyn first learned of the blackmail when Mrs. Halcott-Hacket, a former actress married to a retired general more than 20 years older than herself, went to Alleyn with a letter “her friend” received demanding £500 to get back a love letter from a man not her husband.
Death in a White Tie is my absolute favorite Ngaio Marsh novel.
I have read it many times and watched the BBC episode starring Patrick Malahide several times as well.
This is the second time I have listened to Benedict Cumberbatch read in the audio novel version.
I have posted a more thorough review (when I read this in 2014) which may be found HERE.This time I will merely repeat what I said then: This is, I believe, one of Marsh's best novels.
It doesn't matter that I've read it before and know who the culprit is.
I think Marsh threw in a few twists in the final scene because she realised how obvious it was, as said twists seem carted-in.I could have done without the Ro-Mance aspect between Alleyn and Troy; it wasn't very well handled and was too obviously a copy of Sayers' Wimsey/Vane anticourtship.
Alleyn holds his upper lip properly stiff at his friend's funeral, until the sight of the old gent's "innocent" hands causes him to weep!
Troy repeatedly says she wants to paint someone's hands, but in one case is afraid they would be too revealing of the person's character--another copy from Sayers, this time Murder Must Advertise.
Inspector Alleyn asks his friend, kindly socialite Lord Robert Gospell, to observe events and identify any clues to the identity of the blackmailer.
But before Lord Robert can make his report, a murderer strikes.This is by far the best in the series to date.
Marsh has developed an assured command of her characters, setting and plot.
We also meet Alleyn's love interest Agatha Troy again, but her presence and their tentative romance is kept low key and enhances the plot rather than detracting from it.
2018 RereadThis one is one of the ones that does the Troy/Alleyn relationship the best.
Maybe because they actually get to interact in it (a novel concept).
Alleyn's mother is a delight.
Also, I think this is the one where I'm saddest about the victim, because he was also really great.2016 ReadthroughLiked this one.
The Troy/Alleyn relationship was better done, although, as declarations go, 'twas not the best.
Also, her specific objection to the relationship was somewhat out of the blue.
But the mystery was well done, and Fox was excellent.
I continue to enjoy Alleyn's mother.
And I liked most of the Troy/Alleyn stuff.
I listened to Benedict Cumberbatch's reading of this book, so I don't know if it counts as my reading. My full intention was to enjoy BC's voice, but I end up very absorbed in the story. Traditional (Agatha, Troy) style mystery, upper-class setting, sympathetic characters and amusing tone. Engaging but not heavy.
Adoro estes policiais de época, onde não existia DNA e laboratórios criminais, o desfecho para mim foi inesperado, e gostei muito.Será suficiente dizer que li no 1º dia +/-50 páginas, no 2ºe 3º não li (com uma grande constipação e febre) e depois acabei o livro de uma assentada?Genial
Switching between some contemporary mystery authors and some from the "golden age' of mystery-writing, I find that I do have a few favorite authors, and Ngaio Marsh is one of them.Who could have possibly wanted to harm Lord Robert Gospell?
We grieve with Roddy (and understand his feelings of guilt) when he discovers his friend in the taxi.
Quite honestly, Bunchy so engaged me that his murder made me quite zealous for a resolution, and I was rooting for Inspector Alleyn's success all the way!4.5 stars.
This is the seventh novel of the Roderick Alleyn series and it was first published in 1938.
This series comprises a total of 32 books.Roderick Alleyn belongs firmly in the "Golden Age of Detective Fiction" which is a type of fiction which was predominant in the 1920s and 1930s.
According to Wiki, "many of the authors of the Golden Age were British: Margery Allingham (1904–1966), Anthony Berkeley (aka Francis Iles, 1893–1971), Agatha Christie (1890–1976), Freeman Wills Crofts (1879–1957), R.
Ngaio Marsh (1895–1982) was from New Zealand, but her detective Roderick Alleyn was British.
I would say this is my favourite Marsh mystery so far as it was a quick and delightful read.
I think I prefer Marsh to Christie because the story tends to elaborate more on the victim and suspects than around the detective/snoop.
Detective Alleyn and his friends and family are central to the stories but as a nice aside unlike Christie's Hercule etc.
Where a single character tends to dominate.If you're a Ngaio fan I'm pretty sure you'll enjoy this as the characters are engaging and the mystery has enough of a twist so you aren't sure immediately who the victim will be and who the murderer is.
When someone in the 1930's said they were "coming out" (as they do on the first page of the book), it was a very different type of "out" than we might think of today. In the 30's, of course, in Britain, it was young women coming out into society, and how grueling it must have been. Alleyn knows several of the people who become suspects, and one of his good friends meets an untimely death, causing real anguish to Alleyn. And again as the series moves forward, Alleyn becomes more human and personal and finally "gets his girl."
First Ngaio Marsh read and it was a blessed surprise. Roderick Alleyn is a Scotland Yard detective and thus an entirely different sort from Holmes/Father Brown/Lord Peter/any of the other classic I'm-smart-and-I-do-my-own-thing types, but I enjoyed him/his approach immensely. Heartstrings are tugged when a) the victim is a close friend of Alleyn's, and b) Alleyn struggles with his feelings for Troy [who I liked a great deal]. Overall, a great read.[Audiobook read by Benedict Cumberbatch. Amen.]
There's an interesting juxtaposition in this book between Alleyn's upper-classness and his awareness of people who don't quite fit in, like the embarrassed secretary and the young Jewish girl who is hating her experience of being thrust onto the London season. Of course, it's a demonstration of Alleyn's empathy and good breeding, but the reader may feel just a little uncomfortable at his well-bred pity.Reasonably good narrator.
One of my favorite Marsh's and one of the rare times a murder mystery has left me with an itch over loss the victim long after the book is done. Lord Robert is so finely, lovingly crafted a character that when his light goes out the reader grieves him. Marsh was a master of her craft.
The various characters are exceptionally well-drawn, not cookie cutter people at all.

This is one of the Inspector Alleyn series books.
There are several people to suspect and the Inspector has to develop a timeline of them all to see who might have had a window of opportunity to murder Bunchy in the taxi.
I liked the way the author bought it all together in the last chapter or so, beginning with one of the married couples and gradually adding the next suspect to the mix until it all came to a head and the murderer was found out.
Good mystery, though 1930’s writing style different from today. Killer was a surprise to me! (Own)
A diabolical scheme leading to the murder of a sweet, likable, kind sir. Alleyn and the crew at their best to catch the killer because this time it is personal. An edge-of-your-seat conclusion. Love blossoms to the full amidst this terrible tragedy.
However, the story starts with detective inspector Roderick Alleyn investigating a blackmailing case.
It takes a little bit getting into the actual murder and central plot of the story.
I started on book #7 and completely understood what was going on.
It is clear there is history between two characters, but it is not explained in this particular book other than it involving another case.
It's such a minor aspect of the story though that it was not problematic.There are several more mysteries by Ngaio Marsh starring inspector detective Roderick Alleyn, and I know I will be going back for more.
"What is this intolerable love that forces me to do the very things I wish with all my soul to avoid?" Poor Agatha is in the odd position of resenting him and his work but eager for his confidences.
She pronounces her interest by the circumlocutory tack of saying she doesn't understand physical love and is frightened of the whole thing physically and mentally.The mystery is neatly put together but also completely transparent nearly from page one.
Knowing how it will turn out, all the fuss over who might have been where when and seen what drags on.

