https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547172.Captain_From_Castile
The twist however is that home is not home anymore and it is the New World, which had forged his identity and made him his fortune, that ultimately beckons, and the adventurer is destined to make his life in this new frontier surrounded by those survivors who have proven loyal to him— an enduring theme played out from Homer to Dumas to Sabatini.Pedro de Vargas, a young hidalgo, whose father is a retired but celebrated soldier, falls foul of the ruling elites and the Inquisition and is forced to flee Spain for Mexico while his family is jailed and later exiled in Italy.
I have a special place in my heart for this book.
It was the first movie my mother ever took me to...I was six months old.
Many years later, I was living in Hannover, Germany in very stressful circumstances, when, one day, a package arrived.
It was from my Mom...a selection of her favorite historical novels (Shellabarger, Thomas B.
I sat down to finally read this book I'd heard about all my life.
I read it in one sitting.
Then started from page one and read it again.
It's a wonderful story (and much richer than the movie they made of it.
So Pedro sets off with Cortes' company to seek his fortune, in the company of his loyal friends, Juan Garcia (also a fugitive) and Catana Perez, a tavern girl with whom he ends up falling in love.This one definitely took me awhile to get through (nearly two months!).
I generally really like books of this nature, what with all of the swashbuckling, hairsbreadth escapes, true love, etc., but this one just didn't do it for me.
Also Catana, the main female character and love interest, had the potential to be pretty awesome, had the author not totally wrecked it.
We follow a large part of Pedro's life in Spain and Mexico, and although it covers a period of many years, as readers we don't get a sense of missing out or being "told" things, but really see the characters and events evolve ourselves.There was one thing I felt that there should have been more said of near the end, or at least reflected on the part of Pedro, was about the natives that he encountered in Mexico and how they were treated by the Spanish (ie, terribly).
At times, Pedro recognizes the parallels between the brutalities happening in Spain in the Spanish Inquisition and the conquest of Mexico, but it was not much more than a passing remark, so I thought this should definitely have been highlighted, especially near the end of the story.
This is an old favorite of mine, second only to Shellabarger's Prince of Foxes.
I'm rereading it for an upcoming episode of  podcast.It's the story of a young Spanish nobleman, Pedro de Vargas, who goes with Cortes to conquer Mexico.
Rereading it, Washington Post critic and Pulitzer Prize-winner Jonathan Yardley says in his introduction he "was astonished at how well it has survived.
. It is accurate, meticulously researched history, and it is a sympathetic, nuanced account of a young man's moral education..." Precisely.
Such is also the same of Shellabarger's other books.
Read this long ago and loved the adventure, but there were a couple things that knocked off stars in my book.--The hero has a child with his mistress out of wedlock, and she has so little value of herself that she refuses to marry him because she isn't good enough.
Then she thinks she loses a child because she sinned by having her affair with him.
The making of the child is told in language just short of graphic, so not suitable for younger readers.--Big issue: it's actually stated that a woman needs to be punished by her husband to keep her in line; the hero leaves marks of a belt on his wife's rear and his mother approves.Otherwise, grand adventure and a memorable plot.
A real gem found in the attic. An old book that had belonged to my grandmother turned out to be an awesome read! I never would have expected a book about early 16th Century Spain and the colonization of Mexico to be such a fascinating subject, but I found Captain from Castile to be a real page turner. A book that I was sorry to see come to an end. It was one of the best reads I've had lately. It's packed with suspense, adventure, romance, and everything you'd want in a great historical novel.
Fantastic story, and nuanced in its portrayal of the conquistadores. This is not "white man good, red man bad". The Spaniards are at once heroic and villainous, sympathetic and hateful. And Shellabarger's evocation of the lost civilization of the Aztecs is fascinating and vivid."Captain from Castile" is also, in its way, a study in the nature of love and of duty. Great, great book.
We see the Inquisition and Cortez and Montezuma.Intense adventure.
Good and bad characters.
Character growth.
Swashbuckling good story.
At several points I was not happy about where events were leading, but the end result was a big sigh of relief.Not surprisingly, events are shown from the Spanish perspective.
Basically, very offensive to those of us today who realize just how wrong it is to "convert" others by force, etc.
However, I don't think the author was writing from the perspective that he endorsed Cortez et al, and he certainly wasn't writing to expose the wrong that was done.
It was a good story, showing history as it was.
A fun read, though no one likes what happened to the Aztecs. Then again, what race has ever stopped at eliminating another in the name of religion or some other cause usually inspired by greed. And greed, corruption and roguery abound in this tale of early 16th century Spain and the exploits of Cortes.Woven in amongst the evil threads is a delightful love story. One that had me rooting for the couple right through the last pages of the book.
Shellabarger balances the action with thoughtful reflection from the characters, making for a well-rounded story.The fictional main characters are all woven into the company of "A-list" historical figures and find themselves in the middle of significant happenings of the early 16th century, when Spain was establishing the first European settlements in the Americas.
Key figures such as Montezuma, Dona Marina (Cortez's native interpreter / lover), and Charles, the Hapsburg emperor of Spain all have interesting and nuanced "minor" roles.About halfway through, Pedro has a tempering and memorable conversation with a chaplain priest.
I wish that I could say that I loved this novel, but I was disappointed with it, even as I acknowledge that it is one of the better historical novels that I have read which deals with this era of history.The story is of Pedro De Vargas, son of a famous Spanish knight whose family is denounced by the Inquisition.
In the process, De Vargas falls in love with the expedition's camp floosey Catana, and his odd romance with Catana adds color and drama to the story.The reason that I couldn't really enjoy this novel is because the characters in it are just awful.
The book follows the path of the conquistadors as they trek through Mexico and arrive at the dazzling city of Tenochtitlan standing on a series of islands in Lake Texaca and reached via causeways, and the largest and most splendid they have ever seen.
The book is in two parts, the first being the escape from Spain and the voyage to Mexico.
The first part of the book was made into a film starring Tyrone Power and shot on location in Mexico.
The time is 1518, the place, Spain and Pedro de Vargas is a young man, son of a prominent family.
The grandee plots to have the de Vargas family picked up by the Inquisition and all but Pedro are imprisoned and then he too is caught.With help from Pedro's friends from the Tavern the family, except for his young sister who was killed, manage to escape.
Pedro and two friends from the Tavern manage to get to the port and eventually join up with Cortes and his campaign in Mexico.
Even at that age, I recognized that the hero was callow at the beginning, but to me the romance came when he finally gained maturity and recognized which woman deserved his love.
I know I reread it more than once, most recently in high school, and I enjoyed it then.
It didn't bother me that the hero took part in the Aztec genocide; as I remember the book, the horror of the Spaniards' behavior was made quite clear.
I'm looking for a copy to reread because now my interest in seeing how well it holds up has been piqued.
An historical novel about the conquest of the New World.
Set in 1560's Spain, the main character, Pedro de Vargas finds himself and his family at the mercy of the Spanish Inquisition, betrayed by a greedy nobleman.
The de Vargas family escapes, with Pedro sailing to the New World, Mexico, currently in the hands of Hernan Cortes.
He joins the Spanish forces invading the Aztec empire, rises in the ranks to become an aide de camp to Cortes, falls in love with a fellow Castilian woman, Catana Perez, returns to Spain rich with the gold of the Indian nations, and falls into favor with the king.
This is one of my all time favorites.
If you have seen the Tyrone Power movie made in the 1940's you know only the first half of this book.
Nobody writes books now with the same dash as Shellabarger, Thomas B.
Costain, Rafael Sabatini.There is no need to detail the history it covers, that is well known, but Shellabarger graphic details all the battles, the blood, the hard-ship and heart ache of the campaigns, and the cruelty of both Spanish and Aztec.
The ultimate goal for Pedro de Vargas is to return home to his family, to offical marry Catana and present her as his wife Dona Catana de Vargas.
This was assigned reading when I was in junior high school. In contrast with having to slog my way through "Pilgrim's Progress" and "Great Expectations", I galloped through the swashbuckling tale told in "Captains from Castile". A few years ago, while on vacation, I was delighted to find it again in a used bookshop while on vacation and devoured it in a single sitting. The book portrays a time of high adventure and a clash of empires on an epic scale. There's plenty of greed, lust, blood, mayhem, and cruelty--both by the Spaniards and the Aztecs--to satisfy a swashbuckler-lovers' heart.
Lots of adventure, battles, and down-to-earth humanness. Devout Catholics, Pedro's family is nonetheless put on trial during the Spanish Inquisition. After a daring escape, Pedro flees to the new world, where he is part of a conquest/expedition. He battles the Aztecs, and befriends another tribe (whom he lives with for some years). He discovers betrayal, friendship, love and riches, and finally returns to his beloved Spain.
I liked this book so much I have read is several times. A Spanish nobleman loves a moble lady who betrays him to his rivsl and his family is put into jail by the Inquisition. He manages to escape, and meets a gypsy girl who loves him and travels with him to the new World, where she becomes his wife and he meets up again with his rival, who still wants him dead. Lots of excitement, romance and the horrors of the Inquisition make this a great read.
The setting is in Spain and Mexico during the early sixteenth century, amid the Spanish Inquisition and the conquest of the New World. Pedro de Vargas, who is seeking to escape from false inquisitorial charges made by a rival family, goes with Cortes to conquer Mexico.Details like Cortez' burning his ships, holding Montezuma captive, Alvarado massacring the natives, and finally the Spanish retreat on the night of tears set the novel firmly in history.
This came as a review from my bestest friend. I thoroughly enjoyed the "Count of Monte Cristo"-esque idea. Although it took me a while to get through, I really did enjoy this one. The time period is interesting...the European conquering/settling of Cuba and Mexico from the Natives. I believe this novel is out of print, but now I own a lovely worn copy...let me know if you want to borrow it!
This book is brilliant, except for two things: 1. Lots of violence, which can be a little intense in some parts, and 2. A random immoral scene in the middle of teh book, that doesn't really apply to the plot all that much, could have been left out, etc, but wasn't. If someone could just cut those 2-3 pages out, it would be a masterpiece.
This again, the great uncle wrote. This one was my favorite because it was easier to read somehow. The plot was easier to follow, and the characters were really great. If you are going on vacation, you need this one on the plane or by the pool. It's a great 'escape' book. This one you can read at night before bed and still remember it in the morning.
I started this book and was concerned that it was maybe a little formula based or even childish in nature. But in the end I really enjoyed it - yes the characters are maybe a little too perfect and you can probably guess the outcome of things but it is a fun read. Best term might be swashbuckler of a story.
Romance set in Spain in the Americas at the time of the Spanish conquest of the New World. It begins with the inquisition in Spain and traces the lives of the high social order conquistador and his romantic interest with a tavern maid. Very enjoyable. Clean.
Magnificent! Prince of Foxes was maybe marginally better, but this was incredibly good historical fiction. I love how Shellabarger gets all the history just right while still creating a rip-roaring action story.
Fantastic historical novel of a Spanish nobleman who flees to the new world when his family is denounced in the Inquisition. He ends up with Cortez and his men conquering Mexico. Really great-fun, fast, exciting adventure!
Surprisingly I really enjoyed this story. Not sure if it is based on a true story or not, or how close it corresponds to real life, but it was great. A little hard to follow some of the language and meanings of phrases. Easily predictable to some extent, but just a great overall story.
Thought this was amazingly romantic as a teen. Find it a little racist and sexist now in parts. A glimpse into two pasts...
