https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16186.Meridon
Unlike her mother & grandmother, her initial contact with the land is metaphysical.
She's fifteen, a gypsy foundling, & her name is Meridon...right?Maybe not.Even when her true identity is established, Sarah grapples with guilt, inferiority, & bitterness.
By the last third of the book she's ready to consider her errors, but said wacky dramaz come first.
Unlike the double-edged sword in Wideacre & The Favored Child, this book portrays the land in a positive light.
Whereas Beatrice's natural perversions are enhanced by entwining with Wideacre, the land eventually accents Sarah's positives -- a lost-and-found heiress, the last true Lacey daughter.
Like Beatrice, Sarah would rather die than be apart from Wideacre soil.
I love historical fiction and that is mainly due to this lady, she really can transport you back to the period shes writing about, each and every one of her characters is remarkable in there own way and Meridon is no exception.Now, I have a great appreciation for this series, the last two books, Wideacre and The Favoured Child, were fascinating.
When the novel returns to Wideacre Philippa really comes into her own, she demonstrates why she is one of my top authors, the description of the land is truly breathtaking as the amount of detail is staggering, location in this series is what it is really about.
Unfortunately there were a lot of words in this brick of normal, and so many scenes dragged on and on with the painstaking description, particularly of the land.
Julia's love for the land was driven by a deep social conscience.Meridon was simply greedy and wanted to own something.So I didn't feel the spark between Wideacre and protagonist in this one that I did in the others.
She's on her own." I can empathize with her mood swings at that age, but Meridon would sneer at me for having any kind of sympathy for her, so you know what?
If you like Jane Austen, but wish it wasn't quite so vanilla - this trilogy is for you!Each book is the story of a daughter of the grand estate, Wideacre.
Yay!)Like most Gregory books, she explores the restrictive world of the female sex.
It's extremely relevant even today - as congress debates restrictions on corporate greed, the progressive tax system, universal health care and the role and size of government.In her other books, we watch the English monarchy and how it rules England and cares for it's resources on large scale.
A noble family uses the local village population on it's land to get everything done.
This was an amazing read! The story builds on the others but it is much better. The struggles of Meridon are true and believable and my heart broke at the death of her sister. It was a true life transforming moment. It was nice to have a character actually be happy at the end of one of the books in the trilogy!
I confess: I usually love Philippa's books. Are they heady? No. Particularly clever? Rarely. But still, love them I do.This one, though, sucked ass. Once I noticed the abundance of metaphors and similes, I was helpless to ignore them and found myself counting appearances (c'mon, does a sentence REALLY require FOUR of them??). Not to mention stomach-churning sex scenes including, "...fervently wishing he would plow my fertile soil..."Sweet Moses.
Meridon, the character, has all the best qualities of her mother and grandmother, plus somehow does not have six legs despite having only one set of great-grandparents.
There are a lot of nice callbacks to the better aspects of the earlier books, and I think Gregory finds a satisfying resolution to the conflicts set up earlier in the series.
The book definitely loses some momentum after Meridon finds Wideacre and I could have read a lot more about the traveling circus and those characters - it's kind of disappointing to lose touch with them almost altogether.
FINALLY, something good happens for this family...well...sorta.
Still, Phillippa, I love your writing...even when you do the unthinkable and scandalize me to where I want to throw the book across the room.
My friends just laugh at me when I get worked up and tell them about what's going on.
Still, if you want to read a book that will evoke a wide array of emotions, this series is definitely one that can do it!My only complaint was, as others have said, the first part of the book was amazing.
I also wanted a conclusion on what happened with Robert and Jack.
Also, is that all Perry and his mother Clara are going to do?
Absolutely skip Gregory's Wideacre books. So bad and tedious- worse than daytime soap operas.
I couldn't put this book down.
The last book of the Wideacre story.
She was able to experience so much more in life then the other characters in the first two books.I had a feeling from the beginning that things wouldn't go well for Dandy.
I was disappointed he wasn't around.I thought James would have a stronger leading part also.I am glad it wasn't as cruel as the first two..the incest and rape.I loved how Beatrice and Julia all stayed together, helping each other along the way and helping Meridon to find her way home.
Beatrice and Julia guided Meridon home with the help a beloved horse...wonder if each horse was related...I think so.
I think that all three women in these books have qualities that can be admirable, yet they all have demons.
I like stories of women with the holy trinity; the good, the bad, and the ugly.
When it came down to it, she didn't let her demons keep her from happiness.I don't think you can appreciate the outcome of this series without all three, however that is only my opinion.
Again, this trilogy is not a series for everyone, but if you like historical fiction full(and i do mean FULL) of scandal, this is a great set of books.
Philippa Gregory writes absolutely brilliant historical fiction, but this was not one of her best.
It is very obvious, especially to a rabid Georgette Heyer fan like me, that she must have read quite a bit of Heyer before writing this book.
Names, characterizations, and other details (like Meridon donning mens clothing all the time) were obviously borrowed from Heyer.
The circus portions were fascinating since I had just finished another book about circuses, Water for Elephants.
After Meridon arrives at Wideacre, though, I quickly lost interest, and had to convince myself to finish it.
Also, there were a couple of historical details that were not quite accurate.
I hate to say this, but I thought the final chapter of the Wideacre trilogy was going to be much better than that.
She seemed to have this strong passion for the land she couldn't know, but in the end couldn't understand the value of the people that make Wideacre what it is.
Yay Meridon for running away from Perry and his psycho mother, but don't you find it odd that after all that effort, Lady Clara couldn't summon up the strength to track down her daughter-in-law and have it out with her in one big final battle?
Wideacre (book 1) was an impeccable novel; The Favoured Child (book 2) was a bit disappointing, and, well, Meridon… Meridon was even more so.I like that Gregory made Meridon a strong female character.
It was a well written novel with some unexpected plot twists; but ultimately, compared to Wideacre, which was a brilliant novel, it could have been a lot better...at times, the plot plodded along at a snail’s pace, which wasn’t particularly engrossing, and it was, overall, a somewhat poor end to a very promising trilogy.One thing that irked me was wondering what happened to some of the minor characters from book 2; e.g., Ralph Megson.
But OMG, cannot believe this does not end with tragedy or death!!!!!!!A big surprise for this series.
But, seriously, how stupid can you expect a character that was supposed to a smart-ass gypsy savvy about life in the dumps/streets etc to become in such a short time?
This is what I didn't like about this whole series: the main characters were supposed to be smart, or at least strong in some capacities but eventually, they all prove extreme moments of stupidity where they seem to lose all their strentgh or capacity to reason.After surviving such an unpleasant and poor childhood, it is just unbelievable how blinded Meridon becomes to the Haverings' machinations.
Gypsies, theirs and trampsA great rollicking tale of the life of gypsy sisters sold off to a circus trainer and their rise and devastating fall... only to lead to unexpected dream come true, fraught with greed and treachery. Great read.
I am over this series. It started out freaky and dark but now it's too sweet.GNIGHT!
I will also be doing a video review here at my channel: http://www.youtube.com/magicofbooksThe final book in Philippa Gregory's "Wideacre" trilogy, "Meridon," follows that of Julia's daugther, Sarah, who Julia gave to the gypsies at the end of "The Favored Child." Sarah is given the name Meridon, and she has no idea about who she truly is.
I thought her fear was going to come back and bite her and some pivotal part of the novel because it seemed so stressed in the first part of the novel.Once again, the two major themes in this book (as in "Wideacre" and "The Favored Child") were the ideas of women's rights and the rich vs.
Good story, didn't even have to read the previous ones!
An enjoyable denouement to a great trilogy. The Laceys of Wideacre can live peacefully at last and I am satisfied.
Robert even goes as far to say that he might even love Meridon as a daughter, although he warns both girls to stay away from his handsome son Jack, as he has a Quality marriage in mind for him and he'll stop at nothing to make it happen.
This puts into effect how Meridon ends up running away on her newly won horse, and it is the horse that leads Meridon to the life that she had somehow sensed was meant for her: That she was in fact Sarah Lacey, and Wideacre is where she was meant to live.All of this happens in the first two hundred pages of the book.
If you've read the other two and have found the incest a bit weird - don't worry, there isn't any in Meridon.The story is split into two parts, being Meridon when she is poor and living as a gypsy/horse trainer, and Meridon when she is rich and trying to fit in.
The story provides a fascinating expose of the nasty rich of the time (if you enjoy Diana Norma books, you'll like this) without romanticising them at all (Stephanie Laurens would have a heart attack).
I like her interaction with those around her and the way that she doesn't instantly want to help people just because she was once poor herself.
I should have liked this book more than I did.
I even enjoyed the first part of this one, but once the pivotal moment occurred in this story, (notice the careful avoidance of detail in an attempt not to spoil) I began to dislike not only the heroine, but all the other people involved as well because they felt like caricatures of real people.
At times I wanted to shake the stupid heroine (and her stupid friends), and then I got annoyed with the author for so much repetition-yes, we got it already.
I was a little dissapointed with this book.
then after that...it was a little boring compared to the first 2 books.
I was expecting something a little more twisted, bigger, grander.
I wanted Meridon/Sarah to let robert gower know she was quality and that he lost or something like that.
i wanted what he said about not being good enough for his son to be smacked back into his face.
I wanted to know what happened to Ralph.
and James's character was a little lame.
Like i said, i wanted something bigger.
Everyone who did her wrong to know what they lost.
Six Stars!!!
I love Phillipa Gregory and I expect to love her books...
which can set the bar a little high when I pick up one I haven't read.
I didn't read the first 2 of this trilogy (and I didn't need to to follow this story) but I could not put this book down!!
I tried reading while folding clothes, while eating breakfast, while pretending to play with the kids...
seriously, it was such a great, great escape book!
Is it literary fiction?
I'd say no to the above, but as a book for pure reading enjoyment, I LOVED it.
The final Wideacre Series book! The final scene in this book (again, won't give anything away!) leaves the reader feeling satisfied and as if all-is-right with the world, if you will. Philippa Gregory is a master at historical fiction and the Widacre Series is wonderful (and under-rated, I think!). One of the best thing about this series is to see the stark contrast between the women in each book, their various personalities, and different love-stories. Despite being mothers-daughters, they are all unique and choose vastly different paths.
Well thank goodness we seem to have moved away from some of the darkness that filled the first two books - possibly at the price of losing some of the grip of the series...but maybe not. I didn't find this book quite as enthralling, although I couldn't help but be continually wondering when the depravity would set it. As in The Favored Child, I found myself mostly irritated by Sarah as the book progressed - I guess the story-line didn't go quite as I hoped. At least she ended up with the right guy, but it sure took long enough.
Liked this one better than the second in the trilogy but felt it really suffered after they got to WideAcre. The grand adventure of the circus life was much more fun to read about. In the end I think it redeemed itself and was a fun little read.
This is a well written book and it held my attention easily until about the middle, where I'm afraid I lost interest - maybe more to do with what was happening in my life than in the author's ability, but either way I moved on without finishing it....
Considering this book took me almost a month to get into, it wasn't nearly as engaging as the first two installments. Meridon was a bit boring, and the lacing was snail paced slow. I'll probably pick it back up someday, but for now I must bid it adieu.
