https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7933292-heaven-is-for-real
But this book bugged me so much I just have to have my say.This is a book about a three year old boy, Colton, who comes close to death (never pronounced clinically dead, as in most near death experiences ), Claims that he hung out with Jesus, God, John the Baptist, Gabriel, the Holy Ghost (I've always wondered about the holy ghost), his great grandpa, his dead sister, and Jesus's rainbow horse, and the ubiquitous men in white beards on giant thrones.I do not doubt for a second that this child experienced something, be it a near death experience or an illness spawned delusion, but I take issue with how his story comes about.
For some reason, because I am a pastor, people think I am going to love this book about a little boy who went to heaven, met Jesus, and then Jesus sent him back (like you put your unfinished cookies back in the oven).Well, here goes…and don't hate me for being honest.
First, let me just say that Todd Burpo sounds like a Christian, I am not questioning his faith (for some reason people who have commented on this review think I question His salvation, but that is not my place).
Dear America,This is why people think we're stupid. Knock it off.Thanks,Kristen
in so much detail - that the dad could actually pull out Bible Scriptures relating to it.3.) PROPAGANDA Comments were left also about how the book was too preachy and how he makes it come across that the only way to Heaven is through knowing Jesus.
I know some people just like to spread their opinion but don't slam it just because it is about Heaven or Jesus or God. I am continuing to read this book - I should finish by the end of the week.
---------UPDATEI just finished this book late last night -- All I can say is I can't wait to go to Heaven to meet Jesus.
If my kid started telling me one day he'd been to heaven, you better believe I'd be asking some questions, and right now, not five years later.Finally (and this verges on a rant), it kind of annoys me how many Christians are saying that this changed their life / moved them to be better parents / etc...
(Unlike "Heaven", which is merely the dad's retelling of the kid's story.) I read it several years ago, but remember being much more impressed by it.
But I am also an atheist, and so of course I couldn't read the book through any other lens than that.I honestly tried to balance being skeptical with having an open mind, but, as so many others have pointed out, there's just too many big flaws, such as: He's the son of a preacher and so OF COURSE would/could know all this stuff that his father seems baffled by him knowing, young kids are imaginative and he doubtless started to learn that he got lots of positive attention whenever he'd talk about Heaven, the memories were revealed over several years and I find it hard to believe that the parents asked NO leading questions (and even if they somehow managed not to, we're back to issue one and the fact that he is growing up in a religious environment and is not completely ignorant of scripture), etc.
(Note: As a rule, I don't like it when such events are capitalized to this extent (books, movies, merch, etc) - it just rubs me the wrong way.)Therefore, I am 
I read this book a few years ago but remembered next to nothing.
Frustratingly convenient.His father also firmly maintained that most of the things Colton said are things that he had no way of knowing.Judging this as a novel...I have to say that most of these crazy-amazing-things Colton said seemed like they could've been overheard - if not from his parents then from others in the parish.
Every time 3-year-old Colton "spoke," I cringed.
My best friend in the world is battling stage 4 cancer.
After finishing it I just can't review this book.
It will forever be a mystery of faith.
I'm rating this 5 stars for the comfort it gave my best friend.
There must be something to it if it put a smile on her face while she's dealing with this huge battle.
She's not on goodreads but this is for Shannon.
:( My best friend passed away from the cancer 10/21/13.
Now I intend to buy this book in her memory.
I will miss you, Shannon...forever.
There's a line near the end, that really upset me...Speaking of Colton’s experience in heaven, people have said to us, “Your family is so blessed!” In the sense that we’ve had a glimpse through the veil that separates earth from eternity, they’re right.
We watched our son almost die.I read this and I think...
The question isn't "Why me?" it's "Why my son?" Why did he have to be punished for my wrongs and for my lack of faith?
I want to make the right choices so I can be with my son again one day, if that's a possibility.
(Are we sure the kid himself didn’t write it?)Am I still talking about this?This book was so stupid I nearly fell off my chair/veered off into a ditch/ spit out my coffee/ wrecked my segway/ whatever else Mr. Burpo claimed he nearly succumbed to each time his son said something that his young mind ‘couldn’t possibly have known’, or about what heaven was like, in attempts to convey bewilderment and profundity, which were definitely not mundane hyperbole… But Hey:If for some ungodly reason this didn’t convince you that heaven is for real, perhaps this one will (conveniently published not long after Mr. Burpo’s tale):
True story #1: My husband’s former boss once told him she has evidence for a past life: she spoke Welsh (a language she is completely unfamiliar with) in her sleep.My husband asked the obvious question: “How do you know you spoke Welsh in your sleep?”She had a friend spending the night, and the friend heard her talking in her sleep, “and she said I was speaking Welsh.”“Does she speak Welsh?”“Well, no.
Here’s where they come in.Heaven is for Real is a book whose author, Todd Burpo, spends what feels like half the story saying, “There’s no way my son could have known that.” Usually, “that” is something religious – specifically Protestant Christian.
They would have done better to have written a blog post containing the interesting details than trying to make the word count sufficient for a book.The crazy stories about trips to heaven and back....and even to hell to be given a personal tour by Jesus are ludicrous and I'm shocked that people even give them the time of day.
I can only imagine what non-believers have to say about it all....My views are represented herehttp://christianmissionaryuk.blogspot...For those who don't know who I am and wonder why they should listen to my opinion..
The graphic from Challies is great...Tim Challies--http://www.challies.com/articles/the-...John Piper--https://soundcloud.com/askpastorjohn/...John MacArthur--http://www.gty.org/blog/B140428/heave...John MacArthur--http://www.gty.org/Resources/Print/Bl...I recommend Visits to Heaven and Back: Are They Real?
What do people look like in heaven?”“Everybody’s got wings,” Colton said.Wings, huh?“Did you have wings?” I asked.“Yeah, but mine weren’t very big.” He looked a little glum when he said this.“Okay .
Jesus just went up and down like an elevator.”----------------------------------“Everyone kind of looks like angels in heaven, Dad.”“What do you mean?”“All the people have a light above their head.”----------------------------------I also learnt other things such as:1.
But then, how do such things as the recent Nepal earthquake happen?There should be many more - but at this point I stopped reading.***And oh, one more thing - Colton learned all this and more in three minutes of temporal time.
When Colton finally receives medical care from professionals who seem to have done more than play "Operation" and watch "ER," he has a near-death experience on the operating table, sees his parents as he floats up and out of his body (in separate rooms, his pastor father praying, his mother on her cell phone--which he couldn't have known and they claim to be true) and visits heaven.
Todd Burpo did an excellent job in describing the events that led to his son's discovery of Heaven.
If you have lost a child, you can appreciate the pain that Todd, and especially his wife reflect upon, and the sheer joy that they experience when they are delivered a simple, yet powerful message from their son, Colton.Although I didn't want to put this book down, I would have to stop reading for at least a few minutes between chapters, as I had to take that time to reflect upon what I had just read.Having grown up a Catholic, I truly believe in Heaven and always have....
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/0 StarsIt’s rare that I go back and review a book that I read in my past life (see what I did there?) as a non-book-reviewer.
The past few weeks I have been asked the same questions over and over again.
I figured it was time to express my feelings once and for all.“Have you read Heaven is for Real?????" Unfortunately, yes and I have not spoken to the co-worker who recommended it to me in almost two years now.
Imagine these immortal words from the classic film Billy Madison pertain to this book and that about sums up all that needs to be said regarding how I feel.
Although, the fact that when Todd says "as a pastor, I'm not a believer in superstition" he doesn't see the irony in the statement, it should have told me everything I needed to know about him.
I mean, how couldn't a story created by a four year old pastor's son, one that was added to and embellished over the course of several years, one that described jesus exactly as you have seen him painted on a million pieces of black velvet, one that was fitted into scripture by the author, not be true?At any rate, if you believe in this sort of thing, you'll probably find this story inspirational.
I feel like it is a feel-good story, and most everything this boy saw went along with what i believe heaven will be.
I think it is possible he saw heaven, but I also am not sure all the things his 4 year old said necessarily were accurate, as is the case with all 4 year olds.
While reading this book, my own 4-year-old daughter had a dream that Jesus came to our house.
I could see how even if this boy didn't go to heaven, he easily could have had a dream, like my daughter, which was very real and life altering for a little boy.
Sometimes, there are pithy little statements about humility and the way children cut through all the crap adults tell themselves about God. But overall, I just found it increasingly too convenient that a four-year-old who spent three minutes in heaven would manage to cover such an array of topics, from relativity, to the body after death, to the end times.
I'm just surprised Colton didn't somehow manage to see creation too.If this was a real kid, wouldn't there be a bunch of statements that don't appear to make any sense?
The book is about a little boy named Colton.
Then he said to his dad, "Hey Mommy!" Colton's Mom says "Yes?" "Did you know that Daddy was given the job to be a Pastor by Jesus?" asked Colton.
HE HAD TO!HE HAD TO or else he wouldn't go to Heaven!!!" The other silly part is when Colton's Mom had a Baby, it died inside her.
She died before Colton was born.
And Colton said "Hey Mommy!
One died inside you, remember?" After he dropped that Bomb, his Mom was Crying.
You ought to read it because it's the best book I've ever heard in my whole entire life.
Heaven is for Real: A Little Boy's Astounding Story of His Trip to Heaven and Back is distinctly different.
Naturally, anyone could make up a story about a four-year-old boy's brush with death and his report on what heaven's like.
But unlike so many others of the genre—so obviously erroneous based on their own report—Heaven is for Real: A Little Boy's Astounding Story of His Trip to Heaven and Back has convincing simplicity and internal integrity while being consistent with the acknowledged reference scriptures.There are weak points, of course.
DISAPPOINTED!! I remained open all the way to the end hoping somehow that I would be blown away by some philosophical rant about how all people could hope to experience "heaven". I'm wondering if there was something I missed? I walked away from this book somewhat indignant at the idea that a person did not have a chance of going to heaven because they did not have Jesus in their heart. I find the book to be another example of why people have difficulty finding any spiritual comfort in religion, Christian based or not.
(Another young girl who has a special "gift" sees lights above the heads of saved people, so they're just aware of something that's not in the Bible.) When Colton says he was in heaven for three minutes, Todd goes into a discussion of how one hour is a thousand years for God. And kids aren't very good with time.
Every now and then the father tries to be skeptical and throw his son for a loop, like when he asks Colton what happens in Heaven at night.
Colton also doesn't recognize a photo of 60-something Pop, because everyone is young in heaven.
I love the very last line of the epilogue of this book: "Colton, what do you want people to know from your story?"(Colton says): " I want them to know that Heaven is for real." And that's the journey this book took me on.
Helping me get a tiny a picture of what Heaven is going to be like.
This story also reminded me of the importance of childlike faith, and how much Jesus especially loves children.
Children I work with at my job, and children in my family - Jesus loves them and wants us to show them love.
For these reasons, I feel like the author maybe "exaggerated" a little bit - I mean (lets be honest) when we are telling a really compelling story to our friends/family, we all tend to over-embellish details so that our story seems more cutting-edge and gripping for the listener.
While I think that this little boy had an INCREDIBLE experience, I feel like there were a lot of details that were a little "too drawn out" which may have helped the author really promote this book.
After that we get into the account of "how the parents came to believe that their child had been conscious in Heaven".
The point of the book is that Colton remembered seeing Jesus and sitting on his lap (not far fetched at all as Christ showed love for children when on earth and speaks of love for children).
Colton also expresses other memories of his stay in Heaven which include descriptions of how things look and so on.
If Jesus did deal with a child He would have dealt with him in a way the child could understand.Did Colton have an experience in heaven he remembers?
While I don't doubt this boy's sincerity or the facts of his illness and his remembrance of what he experienced, surely there is more to God's realm than this. I find his God too small, but perhaps God tailored the boy's heaven experience specifically to him. We'll know when we get there!
A young boy emerges from life-saving surgery with remarkable stories of his visit to heaven.
"Heaven Is for Real "is the true story of the four-year old son of a small town Nebraska pastor who during emergency surgery slips from consciousness and enters heaven.
Colton said he met his miscarried sister, whom no one had told him about, and his great grandfather who died 30 years before Colton was born, then shared impossible-to-know details about each.
Told by the father, but often in Colton's own words, the disarmingly simple message is heaven is a real place, Jesus really loves children, and be ready, there is a coming last battle.
Because there are some things I have to say about this book.Before I begin, let me say I am coming from a conservative Christian background - I believe that what the Bible says is true.
And the Bible says that there is no new revelation.
Everything the child says about heaven and God can be verified in the Bible.
But this book is written with precision, comparing what this boy has said with what the Bible says.
If anything, this book makes you want to pick up the Bible to read what the original says about heaven.
The way he wept over the sister he met in heaven and the reaction of his mother who had lost her years ago absolutely killed me.
How much is really heaven and how much is just a child musing can only be weighed by the bible and where this book lines up or misses the mark with scripture.
That's the only way I think anyone can bring judgement against it or that I can be convinced of its truthfulness.
Overall I appreciated how much Heaven is for Real reminded me about the gentleness of God and how perfectly He is able to turn tragedy into healing in areas his family never expected.
