https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26023.Bright_Lights_Big_Ass
I really hated this book. It is supposed to an accurate depiction of the author, so I suppose I can say, I hate Jen Lancaster. She is lazy, self absorbed, petty, jealous, rude, and worse, hypocritical. She is the worst kind of woman. She is educated, yet one would never know it considering how small her world view is. Yes, it is all about her.
I'm a little late to the Jen Lancaster party...I picked up this book from the "New in Paperback!" section of Barnes and Noble on a whim one night when I was bored and desperately searching for something to read that I hadn't already perused a million times.I realized quickly (because it says so on the cover) that there was ANOTHER one of these books out there...a predecessor, if you will...but I decided to stick with what I had, and go grab the first book if I liked this one.
OK, irritating point #1: In one of the first essays, there's this guy from Texas who refers to everybody, including people in the second person singular, as "y'all." I've lived in various parts of the Southeastern U.S. and have yet to meet anyone who does this (unless it's a southerner imitating a non-southerner attempting a southern dialect--a la "Steel Magnolias.")Wait, I'll just go ahead and skip to the worst offense: The author is sure to include reactions of other characters whenever she makes a joke.
I'm willing to swap this book for something that is actually funny (including MST3K DVDs).
I would have rated this book higher, but the author had to rave about Ann Coulter. After that paragraph I had to throw up a little and stop reading. I'm not sure why you'd love Anne considering she says women shouldn't vote, liberals hate America, and that the 911 widows were vultures. I might try Jen Lancaster in the future she doesn't mention her love the spawn of Satan.
I usually enjoyed the start of Jen's stories since I could relate to them but it seems like she took everything a step too far to the point where I felt it was unbeleivable.
Same with the crazy drug-addict friend of their neighbor, you're bound to find yourself living next to a crazy person at one point in time but they usually don't walk around naked.Maybe these things really did happen to Jen but it's hard for me to imagine based on my experiences as another ex-sorority girl living in the city which made it hard for me to read the book.
Wow, I thought I liked Bitter is the New Black but it's got nothing on this book. I was laughing out loud in the first chapter. I have grown fond of Jen Lancaster and can see a bit of myself in her.There are so many great one-liners in this book and I hope there are more books to follow.
OK, I went back and forth on this one.
Sometimes I found her mean spirited, shallow, and just a plain pain in the ass.
OMG!...but that's beside the point.) Regardless, the good outweighs the bad in my opinion.
If you are in a public place, people are bound to think that you are a nut!
I think perhaps my favorite chapter is one in which she confronts a telemarketer.
She says things that most people only wish they could think of at the moment.
She is sarcastic, opinionated, quick-witted, and someone whom you hope, if you ever met, you could be friends with instead of enemies.
After I got past all the little bits about politics that touched the book, and there isn't much, the rest is laugh out loud funny.
You occasionally feel sorry for Fletch (her husband) and Maisey and Loki (her dogs) because they have to live with her.Why?Because though she will have you in stitches laughing she really does seem certifiable at times and downright mean at others and some other times, just plain dumb.That doesn't stop this book from being good and it doesn't stop me from wanting to read her other books as well.Why?Because with all her craziness, its a wonder she's lived as long as she has without someone killing her!
Very disappointing follow-up to the book "Bitter is the New Black"I couldn't even finish this book since I just got so sick of the main character's incessant ranting about nothing important. In the first book, there was actually a plot and the ranting was hilarious, but by the 2nd book, it's clear that she's basically just trying to make more money and writing another book even though there's no real substance.
The only reason I kept reading is because she lives in my neighborhood and we apparently shop at the same Target and go to the same doctor's office. If I ever run into her in Logan Square I will tell her to stop? with the question marks in the middle of sentences and quit using footnotes to point out stupid puns.Also, she should have stayed on the Blue Line to get to the library instead of transferring.
Jen Lancaster is a spoiled, racist, elitist, immature, bratty, Republican leaning, foul mouthed narcissistic arsehole, who is completely in love with herself.
Apparently believes that she is allowed to do things that others are not.
Ten. Times.Like others in reviews of this book have written, she clearly believes herself to be far superior in intelligence and wit than the rest of us lesser humans.
9 times out of 10, the contents of the footnotes could be part of the actual paragraph, and you would not need to read this book like you are at an upside down tennis match.
I liked this book SO much more than Bitter is the New Black.
Of course, I didn't want people to know that I was laughing over a book, so I tried to restrain myself.
I mean how can you not like a book where she admits that she turned in one of her neighbors to Homeland Security because he was in and out of the house at odd hours and drove an ever changing series of expensive cars.
Not as good as Such a Pretty Fat, but better than Bitter is the New Black.
Sometimes I find myself laughing out loud (like when the author describes keeping the house quiet while her husband is on a conference call) and sometimes, I find myself wanting to write the author nasty letters (stop whining about being bored and let your poor husband work; grow up!) Oh, and Terry Pratchett is the only author on this planet allowed to use copious footnotes.
JL uses buckets of footnotes in Bright Lights (maybe her other memoirs too?), which annoying as hell because they don't add anything.
I started ignoring the footnotes about 1/3rd of the way in and haven't felt like I've lost anything.
Nothing like driving to work listening to an audio book and laughing all the way there.
(Bless my co-workers hearts that they didn't think me a nutball - they already KNOW that - but were curious about what I was listening to since my knitting podcasts don't tend to cause such a reaction from me.) And I admit - although it made walking on my treadmill fun - I would get kind of sloppy and start laughing and walking more like I do when I have had a few glasses of Pino rather than my usual determined stride.
That sums up my feelings for this book.
Please do yourself a favor and read Bitter is the New Black.
She is so much better when she has a purpose.
This was mostly "blah" about city life along with a tiny bit of temp work because her first book hasn't come out yet.
It was funny in parts, even though I threw it across the room (figuratively because the copy I read belonged to my dear friend Kimberly) when she mentioned reading Ann Coulter.
Out of her first three books (i haven't read the 4th yet), this is the one that really shows why she has a reputation of being a bit of a bitch.
This is Jen Lancaster's second book, and sophomore books (for me, anyway) usually don't measure up. Sadly, that's the case with this one. It didn't make me laugh the way Jeneration X did, nor did it inspire me like Tao of Martha, or charm me like Bitter is the New Black. It did have its moments, though. If you're a Lancaster fan, definitely read this...but maybe save it for after you've read her other works.
Her first book, Bitter is the New Black, was much better. I hated this book with every fiber of my being. It was terribly written, there was absolutely NO POINT to it! I'm all for "chick lit" I'm a sucker for a pink cover with curly-q lettering, but this just didn't ignite in me what even chick-lit should provide. Very disappointed, but I know myself and I know that I will read her other books. *sigh* I'm a glutton for punishment.
After reading about Gloria Steinem's and Ruth Bader Ginsburg's accomplishments made me feel badly about myself in comparison, Jen Lancaster's special skill of humorously complaining was just what I needed to feel that I'm not completely failing at life.
I loved the chapter on Rachel Ray. I have a couple of her cookbooks and I have tried several of her recipes and liked them.
Her voice is like nails on a chalkboard.
I like the fact Jen is a Republican and reads Ann Coulter on a bus.
I admire her for being overweight and liking her self just as she is.
Her husband should receive a medal for allowing Jen to put their life out there for all to see.
If you are in the mood to sit and giggle for several hours, this is a book for you!
I LOVED "Bitter is the New Black," and this is Jen Lancaster's follow-up memoir.
Good for a great laugh every day!Oh, Jen, thanks for making everyday things as well as ordinary things freakin' HILARIOUS!Now, having finished it, I have to say it's a bit less satisfying than the first book.
In that one, there was more of a "novel" feel to it, as we followed Jen's progress from 200K-plus VP job to extended unemployment, relocation, and new levels of self-awareness (even if still egocentric...
Still, I laughed out loud a lot, and recommend Jen to everybody!
It was fun and I enjoyed it, but she comes off as a bit of a slob and snob at the same time...which seems impossible.
He right wing politics and love for Ann Coulter are a little gross to me, but Im sure lots of other people love Ann Coulter and Fox News, so thats fine.
I had just finished reading several heavy duty books in a row and really wanted something mindless and fun to read.
Thats all, no love no hate, just cute.

I just started this book and am loving it so far. I'm about 100 pages in and have been in tears 3-4 times already.-----------After reading:I gave this bok 5 stars b/c it was hilarious. There were multiple times I was in tears b/c of it. It wasn't amazing in an earth-shattering kind of way, but I thoroughly enjoyed it anyway. It helps that I'm in Chicago, but I think lots of people will find it funny. My favorite scene is when she's in the doctor's office dealing w/ the paper robe.
Why did I even open this when I disliked Bitter is the New Black, was bored with Pretty in Plaid?...but I had gotten four books by her at once from the library and I had enjoyed one of them.
This one was moderately entertaining until I reached the chapter where she praises Ann Coulter, seems to want to be her bestie, and at the same time ridicules the appearance of another woman who criticized the Ann Coulter book (the execrable one where she trashes 911 widows).
No more Jen Lancaster, ever.
It had almost seemed like she was maturing but, no.
Laugh out loud-hated for it to end! I may not see eye to eye with Jen Lancaster on some topics, but I so thoroughly enjoy reading her books! I LOVE Laurie Notaro and Tgese books have a similar flavor. As I started this (her second memoir) I felt like we were old friends and I quickly fell back into the rhythm of her writing. I highly recommend this book (can't wait to pick up another of her books).
Jen Lancaster's sophomore effort, which, since this is a memoir, is about the period in her life after she sold and then wrote Bitter is the New Black. Amazingly enough, as a published author, Jen still needs to make a living. The book opens with the funniest job interview ever recorded, and closes with her entering a book store and discovering a table full of copies of Bitter.A fun, fast, read.
Jen says what I want to say, but am too afraid to. And possibly she says it funnier than I do. I love all of these women who just write about their lives. Modern day Erma Bombecks, if you will. I love mostly the confirmation that my mind is not as crazy as I think, or, if it is, at least I'm not crazy alone!
Lancaster is back with another hilarious collection of autobiographical essays, this time revolving around her life in the big city. She and I live very different lives, but I found myself laughing out loud on several occasions. Recommended.
About a hundred pages too long. She gets old. And some of the stories are too pat. Meh. Glad to have finished it, though.
Waste of time.
