https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3282557
“मेरे लिए इस उपनयास का लिखना वैसे ही है जैसा पीड़ा के कषणों में पूरी आसथा से परारथना करना..” – धरमवीर भारती ने ‘गुनाहों का देवता’ के बारे में ऐसा लिखा था.
मैं समझता हूँ की इस उपनयास के पाठक भी यह कहते होंगे की उनके लिए इस उपनयास को पढना भी ठीक वैसा ही है.
इस मायने में मेरे एक मितर की कही बात की लेखक और पाठक भिनन नहीं बलकि एक ही होते हैं, सतय ही जान पड़ती है.
और इस विचार को आगे बढाते हुए यह भी कहा जा सका है की चूंकि लेखक और पाठक एक होते हैं, जिन पातरों के माधयम से लेखक और पाठक के बीच संवाद हो रहा ह
अव्यवहारिकता और अत्यधिक पवित्रता अंततः भीतर की कमजोरी बनी और सुधा की किसी और से शादी की बात शुरू होते ही एक सुलग रहे ज्वालामुखि की भांति फूट पड़ी, और ऐसा फूटी की अपने साथ कई प्राणियों का सुख चैन बहा ले गयी.सुधा की सहेली गेसू ने उसे कहा था की हम किसी के प्यार पर किस कदर निर्भर हो गए हैं ये हमें “तब मालूम होता है जब जिसके कदमों पर हमने सर रखा है, वह झटके से अपने कदम घसीट ले”.
In the mean time Daughter had to marry someone, chander thinks it would be best for her as she has grown young.
Here author talks about a very contradictory sprouted idea, chander thinks that she is talking to him only because she is married and needs a lover.
Chander assumes that if he treats a woman like idol and not touch her thats the best way to be in relation but he is proved wrong again and again.
Although he thinks he is god by not indulging in intimate relationship with anyone, at the end he finds himself standing alone.
I had seen ‘Suraj Ka Satvan Ghoda’ long back and since then I had become the fan of the movie and then its creator ‘Shyam Benegal’.
But the real thing which made me like this movie was its story..
So I started searching the person behind the story and knowing it was ‘Dharamvir Bharati’ I wanted to read his book.
His books have not been translated into English and even though it would have been it would have missed essence of small village India and their simple dialects and daily conversations.So after my considerable search I found his one book ‘Gunahon Ka Devta’ in the book shop outside Prithvi Theatre in Bombay.
One of the best book I have ever read.
Surely the best book I have read in Hindi.
The characters Sudha and Chander are still live in my memory.
I can't explain the relation between between Sudha and Chander and there is no way to explain it, you have to read whole story for this.
The relation build itself along with story.
Sudha a very playful and happy girl was married to a good guy by not Chander.
Chander sacrifice has no comparision that's why the book name Gunaho ka Devata.
The book addicts you to read it more and more.
Loved these!''हमैं मालूम होता कि ई मुँह-झौंसी हमके ऐसी नाच नचइहै तौ हम पैदा होतै गला घोंट देइत।''"अगर ई लड़का ठीक हुई जाय तो बियाह अषाढ़-भर में निपटाय देव। अब अच्छा नाहीं लागत। ठूँठ ऐसी बिटिया, सूनी माँग लिये छररावा करत है एहर-ओहर!''"तो फिर तुम ही इन जूतापिटऊ, बड़नक्कू से कह दियौ; आय के कल से हमरी छाती पर मूँग दलत हैं।'' "अरे राम चाही तो जमदूत ई लहास की बोटी-बोटी करके रामजी के कुत्तन को खिलइहैं।''Last but not the least, buddy reads often makes the reading experience more pleasant.
I was blessed to have awesome buddies making it a vibrant  discussion :)Highly recommended for Hindi readers.
What a shame that I can't write review of this book in Hindi!
I am overwhelmed and in complete awe with the writing.
The simple story is conveyed in a subtle intense style.
After reading this book, I feel a shooting pain inside the heart.
This book has a hypnotizing power.
The way it explores various shades of love has mesmerized me completely.
More than the story, the selection of words and style is commendable.
can totally move you into tears and take you to the unexplored depth of your heart.Please read the book only if you have good command of the language.
But the sky can't accept his love for the earth because of its own height , vastness and purity .
When the earth realises her love for the sky she tries just to touch the heights and vastness of the sky .
The another thing which I like most about the novel that throughout the novel each and every character is on a journey of it's own change .
But the changes in the character of Sudha was the best of them all.Reading this book was a wonderful experience of lifetime.Indeed A Cult Classic .
This state of affairs does not last for long; it soon becomes obvious to Sudha’s nearest and dearest—her friend and collegemate Gesu, and Sudha’s cousin Binti, who has come from the village to stay with them in Allahabad along with her harridan of a mother—that Sudha is in love with Chandar.
So Sudha gets married to Kailash, and Chandar embarks on a mad journey, from being Sudha’s devta—the ‘deity’ she worships—to being the gunaahon ka devta, the ‘deity of sins’.
En route, his relationship with the beautiful divorcee, the Anglo-Indian Pummy, goes from friendship to something much more turbulent, and his relationship with Sudha’s cousin Binti takes a not-unexpected turn.
The novel is aptly titled “Gunahon Ka Devta” which in English translates into “Deity of Sin”.I would have preferred to name the protagonist a complete jerk, not only he fails to express his love explicitly to Sudha he also ends up ruining her life by persuading (rather forcing) her to marry someone else.
The author does not make it clear as to why Chander does not ask for Sudha’s hand in marriage (perhaps it was because of them being from different castes) The conversations between Chander and Sudha can be termed as mild flirtations but it becomes clear right from the onset that the two are deeply madly in love and simply can’t spend a moment without each other.


The book is very high on emotions but all female characters are portrayed as if their existence is solely for the benefit of males. May be this is true of the time when book was written(I think around 1949) but in today's world I don't like it. Ending of the book is on expected lines, you could feel it beforehand. The best part of the book is description of behaviour changes in Chandan.But whatever, Sudha's tragedy leave a mark on heart and I feel sad.
Its a must read by any hindi literature lover...a masterpiece of its genre and an all time classic...wrtten simply ...the storyline establishes an instant rapport with its readership...that said ... love is many - splendoured .. You get to glimpse the finest nuances of love.. It makes you think..reflect and introspect....its gripping , heart-wrenching , idealistic and absolutely soul shakening !!!
More or less the whole story rotates about the life of an, we can say, adopted child chandar and Sudha the daughter of the adopter.
Chandar is so faithful to this family that he has been fully entrusted with the responsibility of taking care of Sudha and decide what is good or bad for her.
Chandar couldn't understand sudden loneliness in life which Sudha's farewell brings his life.
Few more characters come into play as story progresses.
Its a very nice artistic wording of a love story mixed with ups and downs that comes into a person'd life.
I remember reading this book in Standard 8 and being completely baffled, by the strange love story between the protagonists.15 Years later, I re-read the book to understand, why this book is considered to be a corner stone of Hindi Literature.
To describe this book as a love story will be churlish, because this book talks of a love that has very ideals to follow.As a grade 8 kid, I could not agree to this book and now I cannot agree more with this book.
There are some love stories where lovers cannot come together, and this book has re-affirmed that faith.A must read for a Hindi Literature lover.
Was my first hindi novel. The prologue itself is heart touching. And the ease with which, he has been able to sketch the mental battles related to relationships we fight through our lives. Ati uttam :)
A book which gives different aspects of love and makes it clear that 'LOVE' can only be felt and expressed and it does not have any definition..
Reading this novel and trying to empathize with the author's or the protagonists' heartfelt agony, for me, was same as searching for buried treasure in a vast field of land.
After all, it was the first time I was reading a Hindi novel.
But, then I remembered that, I chose this book despite it having a cheesy title similar to an 80's Bollywood B-Grade movie, as I had loved the author's translated book that I have read last year "The seventh sun of Sun" and also, this book featured in all most all the lists containing the names of the best of Hindi literary works.
Platonic love, self-inflicted pain, misplaced idealism, discovering one's own romantic side and desire for physical intimacy - all there.
Chander has a large role in building the character of Sudha as she does not have a mother to look after her and father being much engaged in his own studies.In the beginning of novel, Chander is shown as a man of principles, one who believes "true love has deeper and superior meaning", completely out-casting physical intimacy from relationship.
गुनाहों का देवता उपनयास की गिनती हिंदी साहितय जगत में उन रचनाओं में होती है जिनहोंने साहितय की धारा 

Every main character of the master piece is unique in his/her own way and their interaction often guides us and the protagonist "Chandar" to doubt his beliefs and contemplate different dimensions of human feelings and relations.
The novel also shows the contrast between the Hindu society (through Chardar and Sudha) vs Christian society (through Ms. Pammi and Berty).
The christian society has been shown more open and free compared to restrictive Hindu society.
The protagonists of both society follow different in search of love and mental peace.
At times, they also seen quite appreciative of each other's traditions.The character of "Binti" arouses deep sympathy from the readers.
हिंदी साहितय में अगर किसी उपनयास ने मुझे अधिक झकझोरा है तो वह यह उपनयास है.
यह कालजयी उपनयास अपने आप में एक ऐसा संसार है जहां की दुनिया से आप निकलना कदाचित पसंद नहीं करेंगे.
चंदर और सुधा शायद भारतीय समाज के सबसे जयादा जटिल और पयार किये जाने वाले पातर हैं.
धरमवीर भारती को अगर किसी पुसतक के लिए याद किया जाएगा तो वह उनकी इस कृति के लिए.
चंदर और सुधा इस ढंग से आके हरदय में समा जायेंगे की आप खुद को उनसे अलग करने में अकषम महसूस करेंगे.
हर एक पातर उपनयास के बुनियादी थीम को पकड़ कर रखता है.
यह कालजयी उपन्यास अपने आप में एक ऐसा संसार है जहां की दुनिया से आप निकलना कदाचित पसंद नहीं करेंगे.
चंदर और सुधा शायद भारतीय समाज के सबसे ज्यादा जटिल और प्यार किये जाने वाले पात्र हैं.
धर्मवीर भारती को अगर किसी पुस्तक के लिए याद किया जाएगा तो वह उनकी इस कृति के लिए.
मेरा आग्रह है की इस किताब को भारत की हर भाषा वाले लोग पढ़ें क्यूंकि यह किताब किसी एक भाषा की मोहताज नहीं होनी चाहिए.
प्रेम के मायने जो भी हो आपस अब के परन्तु इस पुस्तक में इसके जो मायने बतलाये गए हैं वो निश्चित ही आपके ह्रदय को छुएगा.
a fantastic lover story with a bitter ending, set in 1940's Allahabad, the novel is a bit long but a gripping tale about love, lust and relationships.extremely endearing yet culpable characters that you will love and hate equally.
at the end you pity all of them because they all suffer.more than anything else the novel tells you as the translator says "what happens when you don't have the courage to rebel" for what you love most.
and that's chander and sudha's story.
chander fears fighting the society and getting married to sudha.
First of all I am surprised to see no reviews for such a pure book.
This book will not let you sleep for days.
The utmost form of love with purity.
If you are in genre of Love, philosophy, divinity and purity, its a must read.
It teaches about the real love without expectation.
Also it realizes us about the difficulties in the path of love without expectation.
I love reading this book and every time i feel blank in my head and tears in my eyes.
I strongly recommend to read this book if you are interested in real Hindi literature.
Before I started with this book,I had this in my mind that I'll be comfortably pleased with the book but Dharmvir Bharti ji's splendid work shaked me right from head to toe. My mother is a big time fan of Bharti ji which made me take up the job of reading it and I couldn't have asked for more.meticulously written,strong control over every minute situation,the author certainly leaves you spell bound. A rare gem.
ये किताब के बारे में दिवय परकाश दुबे जी की मुसाफिर कैफ़े पढ़ कर पता चला। उसमें में मुखय पातरों के नाम चनदर और सुधा हैं। उनहीने अपनी किताब में इस किताब को शरेय और सनेह दिया है। ये किताब पढ़ कर इसके किरदारों से एक रिशता जुड़ गया है। चाहे वो पममी हो, बिटटी , चनदर, या सुधा। सभी के किरदार काफी सरल सचचे और अभागे परतीत होते हैं। परिसथितियों के आगे की विवशता और कही अनकही के बीच की बातों को दरशाने का भाव इस पुसतक की खास पहचान रहेगी मेरे लिए।
ये किताब के बारे में दिव्य प्रकाश दुबे जी की मुसाफिर कैफ़े पढ़ कर पता चला। उसमें में मुख्य पात्रों के नाम चन्दर और सुधा हैं। उन्हीने अपनी किताब में इस किताब को श्रेय और स्नेह दिया है। ये किताब पढ़ कर इसके किरदारों से एक रिश्ता जुड़ गया है। चाहे वो पम्मी हो, बिट्टी , चन्दर, या सुधा। सभी के किरदार काफी सरल सच्चे और अभागे प्रतीत होते हैं। परिस्थितियों के आगे की विवशता और कही अनकही के बीच की बातों को दर्शाने का भाव इस पुस्तक की खास पहचान रहेगी मेरे लिए।
A very intense, very philosophical and very beautiful book. Authenticity and attention to subtle emotions makes this one of those rare books that have the ability to grip the reader with completeness and generate a strong empathy for the plot. One of the first hindi novels I have read. I am looking forward to reading more hindi literature.
Set aside one and half day from your routine if you want to dwell into this marvellous novel. Book shows a very different perspective of love contrasting to the modern love/romance. It makes me wonder whether such kind of pure love could exist in this world. Also loved the way Bharati describes the environment, nature and especially the city of Allahabad like Alfred Park, McPherson Lake, etc.
Chandar, Sudha and Biniti these characters are going to last for a very long time in my memory. A marvelous story giving different perspective to young men and women relationship. Must read for all hindi literature lovers.
दो चीजें इस कालजयी रचना को अदवितीय बना देती हैं :क) धरमवीर भारती ने इसे तेइस वरष की अवसथा में लिख डाला था.. इतना दरशन, इतनी परिपकवता, ऐसे अनुभव! ख) इसका अटूट पाठन करना, कम-से-कम, मेरे लिए तो असंभव रहा! पंकतियों में वयकत वेदना आपको वयथित कर देगी।
दो चीज़ें इस कालजयी रचना को अद्वितीय बना देती हैं :क) धर्मवीर भारती ने इसे तेइस वर्ष की अवस्था में लिख डाला था.. इतना दर्शन, इतनी परिपक्वता, ऐसे अनुभव! ख) इसका अटूट पाठन करना, कम-से-कम, मेरे लिए तो असंभव रहा! पंक्तियों में व्यक्त वेदना आपको व्यथित कर देगी।
great book!, excellence written by Dharamvir Bhartihands off ! must read
