https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5154237-history-of-the-civil-war-1861---1865
Prior to this work, he produced seven volumes of a "History of the United States from the Compromise of 1850" (an eighth volume was published after this work), and he also produced a three volume "History of the Civil War 1861-1865".
In the preface to this one-volume "History of the Civil War 1861-1865" he states that this is not an "abridgement" of his prior work, but rather was a "fresh" study.
It is interesting while reading this book to think about the way the perceptions of the United States Civil War have changed over the years.
He clearly educates the reader of the political and economic conditions that lead both sides in the early years of the war to conceal from public discourse the obvious and evident nature of the true cause, that of course being slavery.
Rhodes position is certainly sympathetic to the Union cause (how could it be otherwise for a civilized writer in the 20th century?) but he deals evenhandedly with most events and issues.
For those seeking the immense detail of the Civil War years, including military aspects, I know of none better than Shelby Foote (for those who can digest 3000 pages).
Written almost a hundred years ago this single volume history of the Civil War by Ohio native James Ford Rhodes is quite engaging in its straight forward narrative. Between the accounts of the major battles he gives interesting insight to the affects of the War on foreign economies, the civilian home fronts in the South and the North and other social concerns affected by the conflict.The interesting state of the monetary currency, the impressment issue in the North and South and other matters of the Civil War.
I thought this was an excellent book. I really enjoyed the balance between the history of the military events and the political, social and economic circumstances of the war. It is an extremely accessible read and gave me a good sense of the major themes that determined the war's course and outcome. I deducted one star because it suffers slightly from the common ailment of many history books in that it focuses primarily on the side that ultimately won the war.
Wow! A great historical read of the Civil War.The author does an excellent job of reviewing significant details on the Civil War. Extensive research and information included in this work, so much so that if you cannot read this work in a fairly short time frame you may want to keep notes on who's who so you don't get confused.
Informative and keeps you interested. Very well written. One of the best books on the civil war that I've read. I definitely recommend this book
Although I had difficulty following a few times, I learned a LOT.
Worth reading 90 years later (makes you realize the book was written closer to the war itself than to the present).
I read this online.I was impressed with the scope of the book, covering not just the fighting, but politics, foreign interest, diplomacy, economics, business, and society as well, to name a few.
It is very literally a history of the war, as motivations before the war and reactions after are not included.
But it did make me want to seek out Rhodes' larger work, History of the United States, in several volumes, so I guess I liked the author's style.
I cannot say enough of this book.
He lays out the facts of each side as honestly as possible and only infers his opinions to help understand the strategy/thinking of the times.
His opinions are always declared so and never laid out to be mistaken with fact.
I try to reserve my five star ratings, but there is nothing that I could detract from this book.
I can see myself reading this multiple times in the future to gain more information, pleasure, and to experience the author's style again and again.
Really enjoyable history of the Civil War by a Midwest industrialist. Unbiased but clearly in awe of the political leadership of the United States and the generalship of both sides, it never gets bogged down. It is wide ranging and covers a lot of the foreign policy stuff that often gets overlooked in these single volume histories. Very good.
Wonderfully written and interesting to note that this book was written much closer to the Civil War than to today. Mr. Rhodes does have a bias in his regard to Lincoln, nicely done with Lincoln as a hero with some faults. This is a history of the war and its battles and generals, and some politics. It is a brief history, but well done.
Very good history that does more than account the battles. Rhodes presents the other dimensions of the War including international relations/role of the British and clearly presents the precarious position of the Union until Gettysburg and Vicksburg.
