https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30557.Shooting_an_Elephant
The end of the Empire came when those who had previously given up their arms and all their wealth to he-who-wears-a-pith-helmet and burns-in-the-sun realised that Jack was not only as good as his master, but his master was a total dickhead anyway.
This story is about one of the sunburned crew realising that yeah, he is a dickhead and reflecting on the lengths he went to just to stop other people realising that.
The British government has been trying to get its remaining outposts of empire to become independent since the mid-80s.
So no one except the thoroughly-corrupt politicos actually wants independence.
is a free link to this very short story and other writing by Orwell.
This was my introduction to George Orwell's non-fiction.
Supposedly during his lifetime, Orwell was known foremost as an essayist; this was quite surprising to me as it was only a couple of years ago that I'd ever even heard mention of Orwell writing non-fiction.
This collection of essays really impressed me.Firstly, the subject matter was very varied, discussing Orwell's observations during his time in Burma, his stay in a French hospital (very horrific), and also his views on books, literary figures and so on.I think his observations about society are still very much valid, and I thoroughly enjoyed his thoughts, his dry wit.
A young British police officer, conflicted about his feelings regarding British imperialism, is called on to shoot a wild elephant who reportedly is terrorizing the Burma town.
Will he shoot the elephant to secure a tighter fit as a British Colonizer, or refuse to shoot and have to walk past the large crowd of Burmese men, women, and children?
Will he have the guts to locate who he is apart from the role impressed upon him and act according?At the end of watching the short movie of, Shooting the Elephant, two days before reading this great work, my wife and I remained silent trying to situate ourselves again before speaking.
Fiction, journalism, literary criticism, political and social commentary, memoir; there appears to be nothing Orwell couldn't turn his hand to.
This volume includes a range of Orwell's essays from the 1930s and 1940s, with subjects including Orwell's time as a policeman in Burma, the years he spent in the prep school he loathed, the writing of Charles Dickens, Gullivers Travels, the French hospital system, poverty in England, the cost of books and political language.
How glad I am that Orwell was so prolific and that there's a lot more of his writing for me still to discover.
Published first in 1936, it is not known if this short story by Orwell is fiction or non-fiction.
A local British official in Colonial Burma is ask to deal with a working elephant run amok in the village.
The official, possibly Orwell himself, is torn between shooting the elephant and waiting for his handler to return.
He really doesn't want to shoot the elephant, but he feels pressured by the presence of two thousand villagers looking on to act like they expect the imperialist to act.
This story is available for free on the Literature Network.
A teacher my second term of college said I should drop out because of how much I liked Shooting an Elephant. In retrospect, I realize exactly how much of a commentary on her that is. Moral of the story, don't go to community college.
I started reading the title essay, which is free online, and almost immediately stalled at the hostility of the locals.
Do I really need to read about The White Man's Burden?
I think not.Instead, you may prefer the estimable Petra's remarks:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...-- which are largely peripheral to Orwell (tho she does like his work, as do I), plus you get stuff like"Britain's cold and grey and poor, and we are sunny and warm and not too badly off.
We can come to the mother country and work, you can't come here without a work permit.
But we'll always have Petra!
"Shooting an Elephant" was an eye-opener for me.
I read this story for the first time in my lecture "Masculinities in Literature and Popular Culture", that is, in the context of masculinity of a white, imperialist British officer in contrast to the colonized Indians and Burmese.
Through "Shooting an Elephant", he shows his dejection of the treatment of some lives ("Coolie", "only an Indian", and "elephant") as inessential and his feelings of pique with the same.
He does not want to kill the elephant but he is a British police officer in his country's colony Burma and two thousand (he must be exaggerating) yellow-faced Burmese are watching, expecting him to kill the beast who had gone on a rampage, killing a cow, destroying crops and houses and causing the death of a native.
Here was I, the white man with his gun, standing in front of the unarmed native crowd--seemingly the leading actor of the piece; but in reality I was only an absurd puppet pushed to and fro by the will of those yellow faces behind."Orwell seemed to like epiphanies like this (where he takes part in a killing) so much.
This is a brilliant collection of essays. Orwell is still relevant today and always worth reading.
As seen in /my link textAlthough a writer, Orwell was primarily a journalist.
The essay “A Hanging” – in which Orwell describes how it was to witness a public execution of a prisoner in India – is a perfect example of this.
Other than his empathy, Orwell holds a pragmatic view regarding writing, language and communication.
One can say that these points of view might have emerged during his years working as a journalist, yet the arguments he utilizes hold enough poignancy to persuade the reader.
Arguably the greatest essayist writing in English.George Orwell’s famous six rules for writing, taken from “Politics and the English Language”:1.
Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.2.
Never use a long word where a short one will do.3.
If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.4.
Never use the passive where you can use the active.5.
Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent.6.
Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.
3.5*
I have not read Orwell before, save for Animal Farm as a teenager, and didn't realise what a sharp essayist he is; I certainly intend to read more.
How much he is a proletariat voice, despite his middle class family background and relatively elite education (admittedly on scholarship) -- witness his criticism of Dickens' lack of realistic empathy for the real working classes, his sensitiveness to the biases of the weekly magazines that then passed for cheap mass entertainment, his embedded journalism in the homeless shelter, the very title of "How The Poor Die", etc.
It is actually a collection of essays by George Orwell.
I have read Animal Farm, by George Orwell as well, and that was one of the most amazing books I have ever read (on an analytical level).
One of my favorite essays was about Gandhi, whom is obviously a very convtroversal man.
His ideals are widely debated all around the world.One of the most interesting things Orwell said was that he did not agree with a lot of Gandhi's personal beliefs, but agreed with many of the statements he made concerning societies as a whole.
The way Orwell tells the story and details it from many points of view makes it hard to "pick a side".Bookshop MemoriesFirst thoughts arise in my mind about how time has changed and at the same time realizing that this volume is also a look into the world Orwell lived in and how much is still the same.
And Orwell foresaw that TOO.London letter for Partisan ReviewOrwell's view points on war, England, the elite, etc.Notes on NationalismLike reading my own thoughts for the first time and having someone explain them to me first hand.
I have read some autobiographical essays, just the like of my favorite ones by Richard Rodriguez, considered as one of America’s best essayists. But this one by George Orwell , is, for me, more remarkable in comparison . I was impressed. I liked it : simple but transparent, plainspoken, and persuasively natural. I would say that this is the kind of writing styles I would like to imitate. George Orwell wrote about his anecdotal experience as a military policeman in Burma ( Myanmar now ) under th
I have read some autobiographical essays, just the like of my favorite ones by Richard Rodriguez, considered as one of America’s best essayists.
Despite that it is considered to be an autobiographical essay, reading it is like as though a short story; it is absorbing.
This is my first time to have read one of his essays.
I have learned a lot from Orwell’s writing styles.
I have tried to imitate other writers’ writing styles, but reading this one gave me the epiphany that I do not need to sound intellectual: I can write a simple essay but naturally moving.
"When the white man turns tyrant it is his own freedom that he destroys.He becomes a sort of hollow,posing dummy,the conventional figure of a sahib.For it is the condition of his rule that he shall spend his life in trying to impress the "natives",and so in every crisis he has got to do what the "natives" expect of him.He wears a mask and his face grows to fit it."The man who becomes a tyrant has already signed and agreed with the terms of the condemnation of his freedom,at least in a spiritual, esoteric way.
After that, the face just grows so as he will lose every speck of a more valuable inner self.It is the alienation from ourselves in its zenith.
A simple story from which someone can be taught so many things.
Along with the photo, Dad suggested reading Orwell's Shooting an Elephant "to further our education." It is a short essay written about a personal experience by Orwell.
He is a police officer in Burma caught in the middle of a triangle of contempt: against the natives who resent the oppressive reign of the British and thus mock Orwell, against the British for their tyranny and against himself for his struggle of conscience versus reputation.
Orwell honestly exposes his weakness and in just a short story teaches us about the evils of imperialism, the loss of freedom, resentment, prejudice and decision-making.
I always find reading George Orwell's essays pleasurable, therefore, it's my joy to come across this paperback a few years ago in a bookstore in BKK.
I read each voraciously and wondered why he wrote so well, so superbly that he should deserve to be honored as a writer with fantastic writing style.
I'm sorry I don't have this book nearby (it's been lent to my student to read during her summer holidays since last week), however, these are my favorites: 1) Why I Write, 2) Bookshop Memories, 3) Confessions of a Book Reviewer, 4) Such, Such Were the Joys, etc.
"For at that time I had already made up my mind that imperialism was an evil thing and the sooner I chucked up my job and got out of it the better. Theoretically--and secretly, of course--I was all for the Burmese and all against their oppressors, the British. As for the job I was doing, I hated it more bitterly than I can perhaps make clear. In a job like that you see the dirty work of Empire at close quarters."
i love george orwell. one of the most intelligent authors ever, he also has a profound insight into human nature. i would recommend anything he has written. this is a particularly short read but definitely worthwhile. this was based on something that happened to him early on and likely is what jaded him to people. or maybe i am projecting and this is what jaded me to people. what i took from this is, society is full of a-holes.
This was insanely good.One thing that Orwell does and seems to be the best at is the clarity. He goes on, explains the premise, then gets to the point and the point is as clear as possible. The book is definitely worth reading, as the stuff in it is still relevant now.And, Orwell might be the only author who can start an essay with the common toad and make such a good point on living.
Literature—An examination of Gulliver’s travels, Politics and the English Language, The Prevention of Literature, Confessions of a Book Reviewer and Books vs Cigarettes, Orwell is in territory that most people would expect of a writer of his calibre: discussing books and literature from different angles and perspectives.
As the man who wrote brilliantly political novels like 1984 and Animal Farm, too, he’s on expected ground in essays about politics and political figures, such as Second Thoughts on James Burnham and Reflections on Gandhi.
The title story is true and the others in the collection are classics that are must have reading.
What an amazing story
Written in the first person, the essay describes the experience of an English police officer- possibly Orwell himself- who was obliged by his own fear of being judged to shoot an elephant.
Because  a white man's freedom is destroyed when he turns tyrant  as Orwell suggests in his essay, the narrator -who was expected by the locals to finish the job in no time- does so against his better judgement.
Although he doesn't want to kill the elephant, the narrator feels forced by the locals who gathered to see the act being carried out.
This is about to destROy my goodreads challenge aesthetics because the cover picture is so ugly.A really interesting essay collection. I think you can see alot of his inspirations behind his novels like 1984 and Animal Farm in his essays. Some essays I didn't particularly care for like the Charles Dickens one, I thought it was really boring and slowed down my reading a lot:)). Books vs Cigarettes, reflections on Ghandi, shooting an elephant, and looking back on the spanish war were my favourite.
The eponymous essay has often been hailed as an honest portrayal of the dilemma of a male colonial oppressor. Throughout the essay, Orwell is a harsh critic of imperialism. Even then, he never leaves a chance to pass racist comments on the Natives too. However, one can't blame the writer entirely. As we read, we discover why Orwell's scathing remarks on the natives are also equally justified. I am a great fan of Orwellian fiction. His non fiction too didn't fail to amaze me.
I perceived in this moment that when the white man turns tyrant it is his own freedom that he destroys. He becomes a sort of hollow, posing dummy, the conventionalized figure of a sahib
