https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/978054.The_Polar_Treasure
Doc Savage and his men come to the aid of a blind violinist who has been targeted by rival criminal factions because he has the key to the whereabouts of a sunken treasure in the Arctic seas. As with the other Doc Savage novels, this plots sweeps you right along and has some great twists along the way. It's not great literature but it is great fun!
Solidly and somewhat insanely plotted classic Pulp story with Doc Savage and his team competing with two rival gangs of thugs to locate a treasure that is lost in the Arctic from a map invisibly tattooed on a blind violinists back. The novel picks up speed in the last third after Doc loses his team and is forced to fend for himself against violent criminals, drugged Eskimos, and barehanded against a polar bear. Great stuff.
Oh, great... Doc is back to his unlikable, 100% perfectly infallible self again. The best this, the best that... he's better than literally everyone at literally everything. EVER.Boring. The last Doc Savage book was two steps forward for the series, but this is three steps backwards.
The fourth Doc Savage tale (originally published in June 1933) is a big step forward from  Quest of the Spider . The series at this point hasn't quite hit its stride, but I can feel it heading in the right direction. The Polar Treasure is an engaging yarn with plenty of humor and two-fisted, manly-man action. We get adventure in the ice pack off Greenland, a submarine with a most excellent name (the "Helldiver"), aerial battles, a massive fistfight scene involving both Monk and Renny, and Doc go
The fourth Doc Savage tale (originally published in June 1933) is a big step forward from 
We get adventure in the ice pack off Greenland, a submarine with a most excellent name (the "Helldiver"), aerial battles, a massive fistfight scene involving both Monk and Renny, and Doc goes mano a mano with a polar bear.
And I found the final chapters surprisingly flat despite their frenetic pace, perhaps because of the sudden appearance of some new characters and villains the story really didn't need.
Still, it's one of the better early Doc tales, and a lot of fun.
Doc and the gang save the life of a blind musician who's the key to finding a treasure sunken in the polar icecap.
I managed to get this far in the Doc Savage series before running into any particularly nasty racism.
Dent must have been saving it up, because he does not like him some Eskimos.
In addition to being savage and ignorant, a sentence doesn't go by without calling them greasy or smelly.Things that Doc Savage is the best in the world of in this episode include world's best composer and world's best singing voice.
Also, he can cure blindness and his skin repels water like a duck.More reviews at Trash Menace.

Doc Savage and his five companions are definitely eccentric.
Savage tries to aid a blind violist see and ends up saving his wife and daughter who have been stranded in the Arctic for 15 years.
Roxey Vail, the daughter of the blind violinist Victor Vail, falls in love with Doc Savage.
We are also reminded of Savage's two-hour routine for improvement, the institute where all criminals he captures go for rehabilitation, and the special mercy bullet shooting guns he invented.
I thought this novel to be a bit dull and less exciting that the others.
Doc Savage and his mates go to the Arctic to search for a missing ship with a stolen treasure of gold. A blind musician and two sets of pirates round up the characters. Throw in drug induced Eskimo’s and a polar bear. Fast paced adventure.A lot of fun.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
The bronze wonder does it again. The thrills never end...kind of cornball stuff but I like it.
Part of the problem is that at this point in the series, author "Kenneth Robeson", aka Lester Dent, has certain things that must be mentioned or used in a Doc Savage tale.
It's reads awkwardly and unrealistically.(The biggest plothole in the book, btw, is why Keelhaul de Rosa and Ben O'Gard tattooed a map on Vail's back.
And why the hell did they choose Vail in the first place?)So while the plot is much better than the previous book, the action is on the dull side.*What the hell kind of name is that anyway?
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
The fourth book in the Doc Savage series, published by Street and Smith in June, 1933.
Doc and his Fabulous Five are starting to develop personalities and traits.
The feud between Monk and Ham starts to really take off with both men attempting practical jokes on each other.
Doc and his aides dream up some terrific gadgets for their trek into the polar wilderness.
One wonders if Monk, Ham or Long Tom tried an advance on their long trek back to civilization.
Have to take a short break from Doc and company since Pirate of the Pacific is still in the mail.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
The mystery this time begins with a blind violinist that two separate factions are attempting to kidnap. The trail leads Doc and his men to the polar regions in a sub. As usual there are plenty of action, disguises, and false leads. I liked the twists and reveals in this one a great deal. Not as good as the first two but still a great yarn.
A map tatooed in the back of a blind violinist sets everyone's favorite surgeon/scientist/detective/athlete/everything and his companions aboard The Helldiver sub, in a race to reach the North Pole before two opposing criminals.A very solid Doc Savage adventure.
Doc Savage saves a blind violinist from being kidnapped, which launches the gang into an adventure that takes them to the frozen arctic looking for a lost ocean liner filled with gold. Doc battles a polar bear. Fun stuff.
Really enjoyed this one.
reread SOMETIME in 2007; the submarine HELLDIVER makes its 1st appearance
The first Doc Savage novel I ever read. I must have liked it because I went on to read several more.
I enjoyed reading my first Doc Savage book. Used to read the Marvel comic and enjoyed it. A Doc Savage comic and a Marvel Two in One were my first two comics ever.
'The Polar Treasure' is the first of the Doc Savage adventures I read in the 1960's. It was a short fun read originally meant to entertain in the 1930's.
Not my favorite Doc Savage.
read in summer of 1966
Big fun when I was a kid.
