https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33815781-the-wedding-date
What a charming, warm, sexy gem of a novel.
I couldn’t put The Wedding Date down.
I love a good romance and this delivered from the first page to the last.
Alexa Monroe is a great heroine—smart, funny, and full of the anxieties women know intimately.
And when she meets the handsome doctor Drew Nichols in an elevator, it’s the beginning of an adventure in falling in like and then lust and then love.
It was also nice to read a fun novel about an interracial relationship.
One of the best books I’ve read in a while.
Like it’s kind of hilarious how much they eat.
SO GOOD, definitely one of my new favorite romances!- Interracial relationship (black female and white male protagonists)- Fake to real relationship trope (one of my faves!)- Explicit practice of safe sex- Alexa works for the mayor of Berkeley and she is trying to obtain funding for an arts program for underprivileged youth.
Author has a background in law, as does Alexa, and it shows.- Drew has to check.
Although I think descriptive emotions can help create a connection between the reader and the protagonists, if it’s not done well, it can make for a tiring and repetitive read.I don’t know anyone whose love story started with getting stuck on an elevator with a hot guy, so I can’t tell you that it’s a plausible situation, but I *can* tell you that once you get past the awkward encounter and fake relationship, you’ll enjoy the story more.For the first hundred pages, the dialog feels very forced.
That’s when we’re able to see Alexa and Drew’s real personalities and attitudes toward one another come out.
4 stars!!!The Wedding Date by Jasmine Guillory is charming, sweet, and downright adorable!
Alexa and Drew meet in an unconventional way.
Being stuck together leads to them going to a wedding together.
Drew is a pediatric surgeon from LA and Alexa lives close to San Fransisco as the mayor’s chief of staff.
Both have important jobs and busy lives, but they can’t seem to stop seeing one another.
Drew was also a fun guy- he was sweet, charming, and smart.
I love a good, swoony romance, and The Wedding Date really hit the spot for me!
ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.  “Alexa Monroe walked into the Fairmont hotel in San Francisco that Thursday night wearing her favorite red heels...”  I loved so much about The Wedding Date! Like, oh my word, what a damn treat! Seriously friends, I know this cover screams Valentine’s Day, but this is the perfect summer read! Jasmine Guillory’s beautiful debut novel stars two people who take an elevator ride that will change their lives. ➽   Drew Nich
From Drew letting Alexa know if she is going to be the only black person at an event, to Drew realizing the different opportunities and free passes he had growing up just based off his skin color.
And even though I was completely living for this romance in every way possible, my only real “critique” of this book is that it has somewhat fade to black sex scenes that just kind of feel abrupt and disjointed.
And sometimes it seemed like his friend Carlos was the best wing man in the entire world and deserved just as much credit as Drew!
Beyond that, however, the books I have read over the last year have been well-written, enjoyable, fun, sexy, and utterly compelling, so who could ask for anything more?I first heard of Jasmine Guillory's 
Alexa doesn't normally fall for random white guys in elevators, but something about Drew (other than his sexy good looks) makes her agree to be his date for the wedding by the time the elevator starts up again.
But the book's predictability doesn't detract from its appeal at all—you can't stop reading because you want to know what will happen, you want to shake Drew and Alexa for not being honest and telling each other how they feel, and you worry some ridiculous artificial barricade will keep them from being happy.
As an impulse, Drew ends up inviting Alexa to play his girlfriend for the weekend.This book all happened in the first quarter.
I'm not saying these things don't happen, I'm just saying it's boring.With that title and that cover and that summary, the book could at least have been funny.
But editing was much too lenient, and the summary just tells us what the author thought she was going to write about.I'm sorry for just pointing out flaws, I'm a real complainer.
They're still flaws.I do have one very good point, a black main character who is a badass at her job, deals with prejudice in a believable manner but doesn't let it be the main plot.
Contemporary-A-Thon challenge #6: read a diverse contemporary -COMPLETE!This was mega cute. A little corny at times, but honestly what new adult romance isn’t a little corny at times? Would definitely recommend for someone looking for a fast and fun read set in the Bay Area!
I want to thank Roxane Gay, I never would have read this book if I hadn't read her review of this book.
You should know that I will read anything Roxane Gay tells me to.
The Wedding Date is a Hallmark movie in novel form and I mean that as a compliment.
I don't usually read Contemporary Romance, I'm more of a Mystery/ Thriller, Celebrity Tell-All type of girl but this book thoroughly enchanted me.
I'm making The Wedding Date a must read for 2018.Book-Riot 2018: Romance novel by or about a POC.Around the Year in 52 Books: An authors debut book.
I’m so glad I got stuck in that elevator with you.” she said.“Me, too.” The Wedding Date is an adorable romance about two people who aren't quite sure how to navigate a "relationship" that was never part of their plans. With a cuter than cute meet-cute, you'd expect things to go smoothly. But when you put together two people who aren't in their element, things are bound to get complicated.It's serendipitous when Drew Nichols and Alexa Monroe first meet. Drew needs a plus-one last-minute, and a
But when you put together two people who aren't in their element, things are bound to get complicated.It's serendipitous when Drew Nichols and Alexa Monroe first meet.
From an elevator, Alexa and Drew end up in a wedding, a hotel room, and Los Angeles and Berkeley back and forth.Things are going great, and they're having a lot of fun, but soon enough, reality catches up with them.
The chemistry between Drew and Alexa was palpable throughout the story, and I honestly loved how the issues between them went about.
After knowing each other for only a short time, he asks if she’d want to be his pretend girlfriend.
There is a lot of sex, which I don’t normally like reading, but this isn’t raunchy, it’s tender and romantic.
While everything is well done, I found myself getting bored about halfway through and skipped to the last twenty percent of the book, which ends like you’d imagine.If you’re looking for a cute, light-hearted read, Guillory does a great job of writing the race differences between the couple, and this is a fun book.
Because this cover is cute AF and so was this book!!!!
Such a refreshing read, I enjoyed it so much!The Wedding Date is about Alexa, who when visiting her sister in a hotel gets stuck in the elevator with a hot guy, Drew, when the power goes out.
Right off the bat they hit it off and Drew asks Alexa to be hit date at a wedding the next day and she agrees.
But a relationship that starts out as fake cannot end up real, right?This was the perfect book to pick up and forget your problems.
My rating makes me really sad because I had very high hopes for this novel.I was debating whether or not to make it a bit higher, but if I'm being honest, I did not like this as a whole.Basically, this book is about 30-something year old Alexa and Drew who meet on a stuck hotel elevator, get to talking, and agree that Alexa will attend Drew’s ex’s wedding as his plus one that weekend.
Drew is a doctor and Alexa works for the Mayor❉ Discussion around body image and beauty standardsA few complaints would be that the sex scenes were mostly fade to black, which I guess this is more of a personal preference but when I read romance I want it to be served with an extra side of steamy ;)Also most of the conflict came from the characters refusing to communicate which was so frustrating but it didn't hinder my enjoyment.
Rather, Alexa and Drew resolve their issues with simple declarations of love, as well as with sex.None of the friends in this book receive meaningful development or affection, which is unsurprising considering how friendship is devalued in society, but Drew takes this disregard of friendship to an extreme.
Again, Guillory does not unpack these dynamics in the friendship at all, she just lets the romance's success supersede a fulfilling and reciprocal friendship.Finally, the racial dynamics in Alexa and Drew's relationship felt very surface level.
Another great book to read near Valentine's Day! Steamy, romantic and def. swoonworthy!
It does toe the line of having some body image issues go away due to the love interest, but with the narrative being so in her head, I felt Alexa's thoughts about her weight were highly realistic to my experience and I loved seeing a character like myself in this way as the lead of a romance novel.
Some fade to black, some get quite descriptive, and some seemed liked they couldn't make up their mind which of these two options they wanted to be.
Overall, I loved the premise, I loved the characters, I was rooting for them, and I want to read more by this author!
LIVE AMAZON https://www.amazon.com/Wedding-Date-f...4.5 stars The Wedding Date was exactly what I needed and even more.The writing was beautiful and the story refreshing.The Wedding Date was fast paced and lighthearted!I adored Alexa and Drew.Alexa is smart and funny.Drew is charming,sweet,cute and kind.I really like how they met and I enjoyed that they start first as friends.They have some flirty,funny and sweet moments. Their romance felt realistic and I enjoyed it a lot!They make smile all the time!!This is my first book from Jasmine Guillory and I'm planning to read more books by her!The writing was flawless and the story lovely!
Sweet little romantic novel. Drew and Alexa both meet accidentally on an elevator and Drew asks Alexa to accompany him to a wedding. He wants her to pretend to be his girlfriend and the weekend turns out to be more than either expected.Throughout the story each of them fly to each other’s home to visit and find they can’t get enough of one another. But Drew doesn’t do the whole relationship thing and he told Alexa that up front... but something is happening underneath it all.Predictable story but still loved it!
However, after reading Roxane Gay's review, I decided to request it from Netgalley.This is a contemporary romance and I've heard words used to describe it like "charming" and "cute" and I think that works.
They end up flirting and suddenly Alexa is going to a wedding with Drew as his new girlfriend.The act becomes real and romance ensues.
I didn't find much to set this apart from other contemporary romances, but Alexa and Drew made a cool couple.
Drew has issues with dating and commitments, but Alexa proves to be the one to break through his walls.Thank you Netgalley and publisher for providing a digital copy to read and review.
This novel doesn't break ANY new romance ground, does it? I had expected something MUCH better from a Roxanne Gay recommendation.
The Wedding Date is Jasmine Guillory's debut novel.
It features one of my favorite romance tropes: pretend relationships.
As the title suggests, the hero needs a date to a wedding, so a stranger he meets in a stalled elevator agrees to show up.
Overall, I liked The Wedding Date.
I read an ARC of The Proposal prior to this (which focuses on Carlos' romance), so I already knew the outcome of Drew and Alexa since their characters are revisited.
With how predictable this book is, I don't think my reading order impacted me in any way but I'm still throwing it out there just in case.
I didn’t read the synopsis and I am such a moron I didn’t take the cover literally either (because seriously that cover looks like a Jane Austen knockoff).
Now, if you want to make all of the sexies with Josh Duhamel like I do, you will know his leading ladies tend to be a little – okay A LOT – alike.
Imagine my delight when the female lead in this little romance ended up looking like .
Lord knows I most likely read it wrong.
[3.5]Not many books out there with interracial couples. Whilst this story was light, fuckin adorable and so much fun to read, I love that the author included aspects of race and white privilege in this book. It was done do well. I'd say pick this book up if you are in the mood for a cute and light-hearted read. And when aren't we in of those moods, amirite?!
This was cute until they had sex at like 20 percent of the book and i hate that :")And i actually found myself not giving a fork about any of the characters and i didn't get into the story. Sorry i thought i would like you because i like everything that is chessy and unrealistic but here we are.
Alexa Monroe found herself trapped at a hotel elevator with a handsome, charming Drew Nichols.
The incident led to a wedding date, a pretend relationship which quickly escalated into something more.
The Wedding Date charmed me from beginning to end.
Alexa Monroe was everything I love in my romance book heroines.
Another element I enjoyed about this book was the development of Alexa and Drew’s relationship.
I normally do not like long distance relationships in my romance, but I liked how it was dealt with in this book.
If you enjoy fake-dating-relationship stories, I highly recommend this book!
After reading The Wedding Date, I created my "Favorite Reads of 2018" shelf on Goodreads and promptly added this book to the list so that should tell you how well things went.Over the years, Fake Dating & I have had a rocky relationship.
And, of course, the whole "hey I met you in an elevator please be me fake date for a wedding this weekend" thing was adorable and had the whole fate/chance encounter trope which I'm a huge fan of.Alexa and Drew were such unique characters.
3.5 starsBetween this and To All The Boys I Loved Before, I am apparently all in for the 'fake relationship turns into real love' romance tropeSee me discuss it more in my September wrap up: https://youtu.be/_SbRecYQ9fU
I read this in one day on my way back from Ethiopia and really loved it!The fake girlfriend/boyfriend trope is always a fave and this book did it SO well. I also loved that this featured an interracial couple, and because of that, Drew realizes a lot about his privilege and is called out on that privilege MANY times. Alexa also discusses a lot about beauty standards and what is/isn't the standard and why that is a problem.There's just a lot to love about this book in the middle of it being a really really great romance book.
3.5/5 stars!! This was so cheesy y’all but adorable af too so it was exactly what I needed at this point ❤ I loved the fact that both the main characters POV was included but I do feel that the writing style could be improved and there’s also a lot of repetition, as i feel the characters just keep on going around in circles and falling into the same routine. I would have liked more plot twists/conflict as the issues that did arise in the story seemed to get resolved too easily and a slower burn
3.5/5 stars!!
This was so cheesy y’all but adorable af too so it was exactly what I needed at this point ❤️ I loved the fact that both the main characters POV was included but I do feel that the writing style could be improved and there’s also a lot of repetition, as i feel the characters just keep on going around in circles and falling into the same routine.
I would have liked more plot twists/conflict as the issues that did arise in the story seemed to get resolved too easily and a slower burn would have been more exciting but I’d say it was still a pretty cute read :)
