https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25225.The_Samurai
The Samurai is even better that Endo’s better known work, Silence.
As much as I was moved by that novel about Spanish and Japanese martyrs, it was hard to imagine another book which could be so good.
No good seems possible from such a hopeless undertaking; certainly not the varied objectives sought by all those who set off for Mexico.
Shusaku Endo likes to portray the complexity of Life, human personalities, the clash of cultures, Time and beliefs especially during the early years of Christian missionary efforts to his own beloved Japan.
Like Silence, The Samurai is a fictionalized account of a real story.
Taken from the Japanese marshlands Hasekura feels the weight of the world on his shoulders, whether it be the endless ocean, the acrid heat of the Mexican desert or the ebullience of Christianity, Hasekura feels deeply alienated from the world he explores, he is constantly haunted by the images of swans who occupy the marshlands of his birth, who represent a kind of loss of innocence but spiritual awakening which Hasekura undergoes during the novel.Hasekura stands in stark contract to Father Velasco.
A naturally gregarious man who seeks to explore the world, his narration is dominated by a sense of foreboding and narcissism; Father Velasco is driven by a sense of his own greatness, his muscular Christianity is dominated by his desire for renown; Bishop of Japan and saviour of heathens, he sees himself as an apostle reborn.
In reading this book, I increasingly felt Endo’s determination emotionally to manipulate his reader, to argue for a particular religious perspective, and I felt ambushed and increasingly resentful of his so-obvious strategy.
I should note though that I was somewhat disappointed by the style and the writing.
This is a story of two men, one a low status samurai and the other a Spanish Franciscan missionary who has dedicated his life to christianising Japan.
What disappointed me was the fact that, although written by Japanese writer, the writing felt very Western.
Some of this may be attributed to the translation but I would argue that Shūsaku Endō has very much mastered a Western writing style, so much so that, for me, he does not create those sensations that I turn to Japanese literature for - that ‘palate cleansing’ that my Friend Marita describes.
I'm starting to think that Endō only really writes books on one subject, Christianity in Japan, but his style, his depiction of historical settings and events, and his portrayal of emotional conflict and religious faith is enough to bear many people through it.
In The Samurai, Endo tells his story from the point of view of two different characters: Father Velasco, a Spanish Franciscan missionary, and Hasekura, a minor Japanese warrior, who is generally referred to in the text as “The Samurai.” Father Velasco is attempting to spread Christianity in Japan in the 17th century.
Hasekura is one of the warriors chosen to go on this long journey that ends up taking the party all the way to Rome.Endo does a fantastic job of realistically showing the Western point of view through Father Velasco, and of also showing the Eastern/Japanese point of view through the samurai.
While I didn’t like Father Velasco much at the beginning, he got much better by the end.
It's about these samurais,and their other guys.There was also this priest,who's not important, not i
DNF @ 56%. I decided to DNF this when I noticed that I wasn't looking forward to carrying on at all but was just forcing myself to because I'd chosen it for a challenge book. I think I need a break from reading challenges while my life is challenging!This feels very similar to Silence (which I read last year) but without the same emotional energy I felt with that book.
Excellent HF book based on a true story: the voyage of four Japanese envoys in the early XVIIth century to Nueva España, Spain and Rome, and from there all the way back to their homeland.
That's why, when a Japanese Lord starts to be interested in trading with Mexico, he soonly realises it is now or never if he wants to fulfill his ambition: become the bishop of Japan.
The idea I got from the book is the difference between 'normal' people and the 'government', the 'great interests', in a word, the world of politics (which may be at a state-level or for the ruling of the Church).
Having read its synopsis at the back cover, I had no choice but kept going because, instead, it is a story of a low-ranking warrior named Rokuemon Hasekura chosen in 1613 in the Tokugawa Period to set sail as one of Japan's envoys to Nueva Espana (Mexico) and Pope Paul V.
Coming to think about his "Silence" (Taplinger, 1980) I read some three years ago, I realize this novel could be of the similar theme, that is, under the shogunate and the daimyo, any Japanese converting to Christianity regarded as a foreign religion had fearfully been oppressed and ruthlessly persecuted in Japan.To continue ...
Hasekura and his comrades--Endo gives him three other lance-corporals, each with attendants, and merchants as well--are given little information about what they are supposed to accomplish, and their efforts to carry out the will of the court are tragic, as is the ambition of the Franciscan who leads them, mostly astray.
The journal alternates with the moving third-person narrative from Hasekura, the bit player entrusted with a staggering duty the real meaning of which is hidden from him, and his efforts to understand the huge and strange new world he never sought out and the loss of the homeland and family to which he is devoted.
This novel is consummate historical fiction, taking the reader into another time with details and humanity presenting a very specific and strange era as understandable and unforgettable.
In this book he goes so deep into showing some religious history and Japanese history and how they intertwined in the age of exploration (and actually some Mexican history too).
I first went for this book because of the Mexican stuff and it was pretty neat to see a Japanese writer tackle the new world in historical fiction.
This is a brilliant book and an underknown/appreciated event in history.
Possibly best of Endo's novels, the best I've read this far anyway.
Because of his peculiar situation, as a Japanese Catholic, the novel again offers a unique perspective on both the Japanese culture and their country as a whole and Catholicism, not shying away from the good or the bad.
The characters were I think the strongest point of the novel, with the Samurai and father Velasco representing different worlds which with time converge without ever openly conflicting (as opposed to Silence), where the focus becomes not the Christ King in all of his glory that's favoured by many Western fiction authors or the glory of his Church, but the weak, wrenched and defeated Christ on his cross who suffers alongside us.
I am assume that people reading this have little knowledge of Japanese history, but there is not room to describe everything here.
Even if you know what is going on in Japan at this time, you have a little more context into which to put the book, but even if you don't, this is an excellent read.As far as the translation is concerned, Van Gessel is one of the best.
Because Gessel is invisible in this sense, we can really be moved by the power of what Endo Shusaku is saying.
This morning, after checking the presidential election result's , I finished Endo' powerful story, one to long be remembered.
After reading about the samurai's perception, I continue to be bemused, impressed by Shusaku Endo's combination of Japanese and Catholic.
Further impressed with Japanese spiritual after reading this.Thoughts of a couple other books come to mindShogun's Reluctant Ambassadors: Japanese Sea Drifters in the North PacificBlack RobeWhen I first read Shogun many years ago, questions arose about what happened next.
This book and Silence helped answerSilenceShogun: A Novel of Japan As I write, a fragment of "Round the Bend" comes to mind.Round The Bend
I think He lives in the wretched homes of these Indians."In the Postscript, Endo indicates that The Samurai is autobiographical in a sense, since he matches his travel experience aboard a ship with the travels that the Japanese merchants and the Samurai trudged through.
He travels with his servants and two other from his rank, along with other Japanese merchants who seek to gain fortune in Nueva España, aboard a ship led by a Franciscan priest named Velasco.
But as the samurai continues to reject the Christianity forced upon him by Velasco, he finds a Japanese monk who lives among colonized Indians, and is continually haunted by the image of the "ugly and emaciated" Christ whom many call King.
Niet mijn soort boek, mede wegens het feit dat ik niet opgegroeid ben met- en weinig interesse heb in het christendom. Desondanks was het enorm bijzonder te lezen hoe de samoerai en zijn mede-afgezanten de reis naar en van Nueva España hebben ervaren.Uitgebreid review volgt!
Excelente. Este livro conta a estória verídica da longa epopeia de 4 samurais japoneses pelo México e Europa, em busca de acordos comerciais como moeda de troca da entrada de missionários católicos no Japão. Este livro é extremamente crítico da evangelização europeia feita de espada na mão, com toda a sua arrogância e hipocrisia. Foi uma surpresa e recomendo.
This novel does a great job of looking at how convoluted faith in God can be.
Perhaps a healthy alternative to the God of the Prosperity Gospel, but still a bit of an overshoot because there is no victory in Jesus in this book.
It ends sadly with the martyrdom of all involved, none having really attained the moral or spiritual stature one hoped to see.
Nevertheless, the picture of the Son of Man on the crucifix always there to suffer with us does bring comfort to the sorrowful, but it is a comfort that needs a dose of hope and salvation.
Endo is the Dostoevsky of Japanese literature. He has an uncanny ability to portray the human experience in such a manner that deeply convicts his reader. He takes you on a journey of time, space, and spirit, one that is both autobiographical for he the author and enrapturing for we his reader. Where Silence shows the heart and struggle of a devout man who has spent his whole life doing good, The Samurai depicts the soul and suffering of two men who know not the heart of God but are forevermore swept up by it and its eternal love.
Magistral autobiografía de Endo e historia de la Historia. Presente y pasado son uno aquí: el autor, sus vivencias y sentimientos; y al mismo tiempo, personajes ficticios que sin embargo se inspiran en aquellos que vivieron en el siglo XVII la expulsión y martirio de los cristianos en Japón. Un viaje de Oriente a Occidente, una travesía que existió y se refleja en "El samurai" de forma ajustada y bien documentada. Un viaje en el espacio, el tiempo y el interior del alma de todos cuantos tomaron y toman parte en él.
Fine book that transcends cliched depictions of Japanese culture and clandestine religious orders. At first Endo's style seems so straightforward you wonder if he's laid all his cards on the table, but there's much more going on underneath the surface. Has the feel of a parable.
Όχι μόνο δεν κουράζει, αλλά προκαλεί την περιέργειά στ@ν αναγνώστ@ να διάβασει την εξέλιξη αυτής της περιπλάνησης σε τρεις ηπείρους.Νοηματικά κάποιος θα μπορούσε να πει πως θέτει στο επίκεντρο την Πίστη.
Για μένα όμως είναι ξεκάθαρο πως στο επίκεντρο βρίσκεται η θέση του Ανθρώπου σε ένα ασφυκτικό περιβάλλον.
Αλήθεια πόσο σύγχρονο είναι αυτούς ζήτημα, σε μια Δύση που άκριτα καταδικάζει την ακραία ισλαμιστικη βία, αλήθεια πόσο εύκολα ξεχνάμε ποσά εκατομμύρια σφαχτηκαν/ βιάστηκαν/ σκλαβοθηκαν στο όνομα του Χριστού.Εκεί είναι για μένα το ζήτημα του βιβλίου αυτού.Η εξωτερικά και από τα πάνω επιβαλλόμενη Πίστη.
Βέβαια καταλαβαίνω ότι πρόκειται για έκδοση του 1984 και την δυσκολία να βρεθεί μεταφραστής που να κατέχει την ιαπωνική, αλλά και πάλι...3, 5 / 5 και αρκετά ενδιαφέρον.υγ.
Depois de ler uma crítica ou comentário online, li "Samurai" com a incansável expectativa de que este sobressaísse "Silêncio", também de Shusaku Endo.
Com a habilidade de transplantar o leitor para dentro da cabeça de seus personagens, o texto de Endo e as passagens que tem o humilde Samurai como bússola narrativa demonstram uma imutabilidade quase exaustiva - o que, de certa maneira, é o cerne da personagem.
Além desse talento do autor, outro destaque de seu trabalho está na maneira como ele lida com o subtexto narrativo, e como ele o mantém quase na superfície, sem nunca escancará-lo.
I am not a religious person, but this passage from Shusaku Endo's The Samurai really struck a cord with me.
You don't have to be a religious person to feel the impact of the words here.
'That is how He spent His life,' replied the renegade monk in a voice filled with assurance, then he lowered his eyes to the ground and repeated the same words to himself.
They are no longer the sort of people He sought after.' 'No matter what I do,' the samurai muttered apologetically, 'I can't think of that man the way you do.''Even if you care nothing about Him...
Δεν το πιστεύω ότι έκατσα και άκουσα ένα βιβλίο χριστιανικού περιεχομένου! Αλλά πολύ καλό!
Το είχα γενικότερα για 4 αστεράκια... αλλά ως είθισται σε πολλά βιβλία το καλύτερο το φυλάει ο συγγραφέας για το τέλος. Επάξια λοιπόν το πέμπτο αστέρι για το τελευταίο κεφάλαιο. Μέχρι την τελευταία σελίδα και μέχρι την τελευταία λέξη.-
This is the second book by Endo that I've read, and both of his books have had a profound impact on me.
I think so far, he's the only non-western author that I've read who deals with Christianity.
While Silence tore me apart inside, this book's impact was milder.
Endo switches perspectives between the eponymous Samurai and a Spanish priest quite effectively, building up tension as the worldviews grate against each other.
Colors are vivid, sounds are nearly audible, and actions leap off the page, until I can smell the salt of the sea and feel the gritty sand of the Mexican desert.Just read the book, ok?
Updated Review:I enjoyed The Samurai for different reasons than I usually enjoy books I take to. I had to spend a lot of time in the book to find what I valued and empathized with in the characters.This was a required text for an intro world history class I'm taking at a private Christian liberal arts university. The novel sparked a self critical conversation about mission and colonialism / assimilating culture and gospel. I'm looking forward to reading more of Endo's work. His writing is well paced and delicate. His characters feel realistically human.
The action/drama all happens politically and internally; sorry, no chase scenes or fights.It is my understanding that this piece of fiction is autobiographical when it comes to the authors own relationship with Jesus.
I definitely recommend this book to you if you are a westerner moving to Japan, a Japanese person who has been exposed to Christianity, or just someone who has interest in Japanese culture and history.
I probably recommend this book to you if you are interested in cross-cultural clashes, a Christian who cares about the rest of the world, or a someone who is interested in Christianity in an eastern mind.
