https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356525.The_City_of_Joy
So that this slum area became the setting of the book.The book told about the story of epic in a place called Anand Nagar or City of Joy. For Brother Stephan - a priest from Poland - came to this place made him to a suprise.
All the people in Anand Nagar, eventhough lived in very poor condition, they care on another.
Brother Stephan learned much things from the people in Anand Nagar.
Besides Hasari Pal and Brother Stephan, there were so many heroes in this book such as Marx, a doctor from America, Mother Sabia, etc.
One of the most significant spiritual experience of my life has happened around this book.
I was reading this book on the bus.
The conductor gave me the ticket.
He asked me how did I find the book?
Now, this is not a title you expect to be read by the bus conductor.
But he told me he has read the book.
He started talking with me about this book.
I literally felt that there is someone out there who look out for each and every soul.
I felt the connection with universe which is difficult to express in words.
This was one of the most amazing books I read; it changed my life! What sticks out in my mind to this day was reading about the poor giving the very last of their food to another who was even more poor and had less. I finished this book in the Denver International airport between flights and cried my eyes out! Such a beautiful book, I recomend everyone to read it!
An excellent book on a Calcutta ( Kolkata) slum named Ananda Nagar. Many people believe The City of Joy refers to Kolkata but in this book , The City of Joy is just an Enligh transliteration of the slum Ananda Nagar.
The book does not celebrate poverty but the author paints an incredible picture of the denizens of this city of Joy : "The poorer they were, the more eager they were to give ".
He goes to describe "the miracle of these concentration camps" where "the accumulation of disastrous elements were counter balanced by other factors that allowed their inhabitants not merely to remain fully human but even to transcend their condition and become models of humanity "He takes a dig at the bureaucracy while narrating his brush with the custom authorities calling the customs office as "classic shrine to bureaucracy "What the city of Calcutta offers to the famished immigrant is " faint hope of finding some crumbs to allow them to survive until the next day"The book has an interesting end: the poorest finding hope in the perceived empowerment in the nuclear tests.
Professionals now depend on their little electronic (electric) friends for absolutely everything.
La Pierre speak of his experiences in India, and though his manner in real life was a taste pompous, I put it down to being a gent of a certain age and cultural background--and perhaps discomfort at being interviewed live on TV.If you read this book, do so mindfully.
Step back from emotional "oh isn't that terrible" and focus on the fact that this is reality for hundreds of thousands of people every day, in our "modern" world.Don't read it at all if you aren't going to let it touch you.
probably my favorite book ever. I read it in 1999 whilst i was in India, and perhaps the fact that i was there made the scenes more vivid and real for me. Its an amazing depiction of how joy love and kindness can exist in povery, squalor and hardship.
Era il miracolo della Città della gioia, dove la vita sembrava sempre più forte della morte.Un bellissimo tuffo in India, un libro stupendo che richiede una lettura lenta, nonostante abbia uno stile semplice e fluido.
Dovrebbe essere letto nelle scuole, tantissimi spunti di riflessione e grandi insegnamenti, tra i tanti: dare il giusto valore alle cose ed alla vita stessa, nutrire sempre la speranza, condividere.
A toccarti è proprio la condivisione tra i poveri delle bidonville, che applicano in pieno il proverbio indiano "Tutto ciò che non viene donato va perduto".Devo dire che questo libro sconvolge decisamente la graduatoria delle nostre necessità.
فقر و فلاکت در هندوستان بر هیچ کس پوشیده نیست ولی این کتاب ابعاد دیگری از این فاجعه انسانی را به نمایش می گذارد
Buku yang mengusik hati sampai lama sekali setelah selesai dibaca. Sampai sekarang mau membaca ulang pun rasanya sangat berat. Penderitaan adalah salah satu hal tak terelakkan dalam kehidupan manusia. Tetapi ketika manusia didorong sampai batasnya oleh penderitaan dan tetap bisa menemukan kebahagiaan, mungkin (imo) mereka adalah manusia paripurna yang sesungguhnya.
Not that the writing is all that good, but the content and the real stories of struggle,pain and the spirit to life that strives even in the worst of conditions makes you wonder about the sheer mental strength it takes to be one among the original "City of Joy".Though the setting is quite similar to largely explored themes in Indian movies and books by now, the sheer intensity of involvement of the main characters with the many heroes of the slum as well as the way each small detail is portrayed makes you feel each pang of pain that goes through the lives of these men and women destined to live a wretched life in the slums of the first major city of India.The author has taken pains to bring forth the logical reasons behind the stale and wretched state of these lives,while exploring the practical steps required to solve the problem by its roots.
Ho letto di persone che vendono il sangue per mangiare e vendono le proprie ossa (dopo la morte) per pagare la dote della figlia.
Ho letto di persone che fanno la fila per ore per andare in bagno e lavarsi con mezzo litro di acqua...quando va bene.
Ho letto di persone annegate in un tombino dopo un monsone.
Ho letto di persone morte di fatica mentre trascinavano un risciò con cui a stento guadagnavano da mangiare per sé e la propria famiglia.
Ho letto di persone che non avevano niente e nonostante questo essere più ottimiste di me che ho "tutto".
I am not sure how to start in my review for this book.
From a social standpoint, I was repeatedly overcome with such compassion and hurt for these people only to be touched and filled with joy that there are people like Brother Stephan and others who care so much about what is important in life and that is people.
This book was as moving of a story as I have ever read.
If all of the bad news of the world has disheartened you, read this book.
There is nothing like love to lift you.
Ok, so I know they made some movie based on this book with Patrick Swayze, but that is irrelevant. This book tells the story of life in India and the struggles of a family forced to leave their country home and migrate to the crowded city of Calcutta if I remember correctly. I'm pretty sure that it is not a true story, but based on real events-maybe it's historical fiction. Anyway, I thought it was great.
So much goodness in one book, a feel good read.
[Tagore]Selain Hasari, tokoh utama buku ini adalah seorang pastor Polandia bernama Stephan Kovalski, yg sengaja tinggal di Negeri Bahagia dalam rangka menemukan kedamaian dan Tuhan dalam penderitaan kaum papa.
Misalnya, saat Kovalski butuh vaksin khusus yg dipesan dari Inggris untuk penderita lepra, beliau ternyata masih harus berurusan dengan petugas kantor pos lelet dan manajemen amburadul, sehingga setelah ngurusin dokumen dan tetek bengek hingga berminggu-minggu, vaksin tersebut harus diterima dalam kondisi sudah kadaluwarsa (asli sumpah, pas baca bagian ini gw pengen ngemplang si petugas pake sandal kulit).Namun, itu masih belum apa-apa.
Berkat buku ini, kondisi Negeri Bahagia saat ini sudah jauh memadai (diungkapkan Monsieur Lapierre dalam Kata Penutup buku ini).
When I was in Kolkata as a kid with my parents, more than once the ignorant thought crossed my mind when I saw homeless people on the streets, "Why do they even come and live in the city anyway when they can easily farm in the countryside?" Sure, I knew about the droughts and famine that hits India time and again, but doesn't the government provide enough irrigation and other relief supplies?
It includes people, people like you and me.It is only when I read this book that it hit me- they too have a story, they too have dreams, hopes and aspirations for the future.
Termasuk di Calcuta, di perumahan yang kumuh sekali, di mana 1 rumah petak berukuran 3x3 m bisa dihuni sampai 8 orang, bahkan di antara org2 yang tidak punya rumah, tinggal di emperan, atau juga di antara orang-orang kusta yang sebagian anggota tubuhnnya sudah rusak/hilang karena membusuk.Orang2 yang dipandang miskin di sini ternyata jauh lebih kaya, karena mereka selalu rela berbagi dari apa yg mereka miliki sekarang.
Orang2 miskin di Calcuta bahkan mudah sekali untuk mengadopsi tetangganya, padahal memenuhi kebutuhan keluarga yang ada saja mereka sudah tidak sanggup.
Ho voluto leggere questo libro per due motivi: il primo perchè dopo essere stata a Luxor e aver visto veramente cosa vuol dire la miseria, volevo "capirla"; il secondo, perchè dopo aver visto il film tratto dal romanzo diversi anni fa ne ero rimasta veramente affascinata.
Spesso accade che troviamo il libro nettamente migliore del film; in questo caso sono semplicemente diversi.
Mi dispiace solo che l'autore non riesca ad essere coinvolgente come meriterebbe la storia, solo verso la fine del libro si provano emozioni che rendono giustizia ai personaggi, prima ci si ritrova spesso con freddi elenchi di fatti successi a Calcutta.Voto: 7/10

This book deserves the kudos which it has always received. What a heartbreaking, interesting story, based upon true lives of Calcutta's poorest-of-the-poor.Sad story, very hard to read about the plight of these people. An interesting fact: Dominique LaPierre's wife is also named Domimique!
3 reasons why you MUST read this book . 1. It will inspire you to be extremely hopeful of life. 2. It will make you so much more humble and grounded. 3. The book has instances that will make you shiver and yet provide invaluable lessons of life.
Me ha parecido la marca blanca de Shantaram de Gregory David Roberts, que es un relato magnífico. No he podido dejar de hacer comparaciones entre uno y otro constamente y qué pena, oye. Y tanto religioneo, ufff, no lo podía soportar. La verdad es que podía haber ahorrado esta lectura perfectamente.
Amazing, inspiring and perspective changing book !!
Conocido ya el autor no era difícil prever que, como la cabra tira cae al monte, algún día acabaría cayendo en mis manos su mayor éxito: La ciudad de la alegría, un conmovedor relato sobre la vida en un slum de Calcuta (barrio de chabolas).
Most but some, need a helping hand in this world, and a few among the rest make it their calling to be that help.
Stephen Kovalski lives in these pages (The guest appearance by Mother Teresa was not exactly needed) Anand Nagar - The City of Joy, what makes the name so apt, is that to an outsider the place is poverty, sickness, suffering, desolation and death.
But even in these so called 'conditions' the souls residing in Anand Nagar never forget to celebrate life and discover the joy of living.
Un livre très enrichissant, très bien écrit et passionnant, plein de réalité et d'espoir, et culturellement très intéressant. Lecture indispensable.
Set in post colonial India, this book elucidates the misery of the poor and sick, which the general populace have conveniently learnt to overlook by habituation.Stephen Kovalski, the priest with a relentless obsession to serve the poor, should be beatified (if fictional saints exist!) for being impeccably altruistic, showering his love on the helpless in the City of Joy.
Questo romanzo mette in luce tutte quelle che sono le problematiche sia all'interno di Calcutta sia all'interno di una baraccopoli/slum nei pressi di Calcutta denominata "la Città della gioia".
Poi la vita di un sacerdote francese all'interno della baraccopoli ed infine quella di un medico americano, di nome Max, che decide di lasciare tutto e trasferirsi in India.
Infine, ho trovato lo stile molto scorrevole, nonostante la presenza di termini indiani, e le descrizioni molto accurate.All'interno del libro ho sottolineato anche numerosi passaggi che mi sono piaciuti (quando un libro mi piace lo riempio di post it) e vorrei riportarne due:"...Calcutta non rappresentava nè cultura nè storia.
The slums of Calcutta arose due to an influx of people who exchanged the deprivation of the rural life for urban poverty, which was just another kind of precarious existence: "The earthquake that shook Bihar on January 15, 1937, caused hundreds of thousands of deaths and catapulted entire villages in the direction of Calcutta."This story follows a Polish Catholic priest who voluntarily lives among the poor.
Lapierre and his wife founded the organization Action Aid for Lepers' Children of Calcutta; today it is called City of Joy Aid.The eunuchs appear three-quarters of the way through this very long book.
