https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7924.All_of_a_Kind_Family_Uptown
I loved being back with this family.Hilarious first chapter!Henny grew on me a bit in this book because she’s the one who’s so good with youngest sibling and only brother Charlie.
It’s always been Sarah & Ella and Charlotte & Gertie and now I feel as though Henny has a pairing too.
Also, I admired Henny’s role in the play and her ability to work with others and help implement original ideas.It was fun to watch the kids grow up.
I’m still particularly fond of Sarah, and of Ella, but all the daughters had a bit of the spotlight in this book.I’m still deciding whether or not to read the Downtown and Ella books.
The book closes with the return of the soldiers from World War I, and their triumphant march through New York City...Although there seems to be some disagreement, regarding the correct order of Sydney Taylor's series, given that the fourth book to be published, 
As a young girl, I found the romances between Ella and Jules, and Grace Healy and Bill, very compelling stuff, and I cannot read the chapter where the four young people ride around New York City on a double-decker bus, singing songs that eventually involve all the riders in an impromptu concert, without smiling in delight.
Such a lovely visit with this family. Each character is unique, different, special. Ella has really grown up. Henny, well let's just say she still has some growing to do. And Sarah, Charlotte, Gertie, and of course, Charlie.I enjoy the fact that they share different Jewish holidays in these books, not just the same ones over and over. They'll mention the others, but will dwell more on the new ones. This story takes place during WWI, so that's an added plus.Enjoyable and recommended.
Loved it!
Loved it so much I started to wonder what happened to Taylor that her writing took such a nosedive in later years (when she went back to write All of a Kind Family Downtown?)Such a wonderful story, with the romance and The War. I think Ella must be just a skosh younger than Betsy Ray of the Betsy-Tacy series.
Henny remains, for me, the least likable of the sisters.
There's more of the Jewish religion explained- many customs and traditions are included here, much to the edification of young heathens like me.
One assumes there are still young heathens to be edified.
I love, love it!The fourth book is just as wonderful, people!Ages: 9 - 13CleanlinessChildren's Bad WordsMild Obscenities & Substitutions - 1 Incident: stupidName Calling - 2 Incidents: stupid, rascalReligious Profanities - 18 Incidents: Gee, goodness, Good gracious, Gosh, Thank heavens, Heaven knows, For heaven’s sake, Gee willikers, For goodness sakeReligious & Supernatural - 1 Incident: A father tells his son about the good and bad Sabbath angels.Attitudes/Disobedience - 2 Incidents: A girl takes her sister’s dress without permission and learns a lesson.
For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics, Romance Related and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I went from the first one to the fourth one.
I think the family doesn't feel quite as special now that it is more assimilated in American society.
There were some great scenes though.
I was glad to see a few strictly Jewish scenes in the book.
I suppose that is part of what I missed from the first book.
On the other hand, it was a good explanation of what people went through on the Home Front in World War I and the anxiety of wondering about your boys in the army.
Recommended more for American history in this case, than the Jewish experience in the United States.
While the family is still adorable and made me laugh out loud more than once, this volume in the series is more real and sober. The serious illness for Mama and then WWI meant that the family experienced some serious angst. They weathered it all well, together and I am looking forward to the next installment which I plan to begin immediately.
Somehow I missed this one when I originally read the series 30+ years ago. The characters and situations are as wonderful as ever, and there was still more for me to learn about Jewish culture and holidays, at least as they were practiced in the US 1917-18.
All-of-a-Kind Family Uptown by Sydney Taylor is a perfect illustration of why I recommend everyone try reading a book at random.
So far, they have all been delightful.All-of-a-Kind Family Uptown is the third in a series of semi-autobiographical books by Sydney Taylor about a Jewish family living in the New York in the first half of the 20th century.
These moments bring the family to life and make me wish I'd been able to read and review the book in time for the Jewish Literature Challenge!
In fact, there's now an award for Jewish children's literature named in honor of Sydney Taylor.
One of the first Hispanic families in the Bronx neighborhood where we lived, I attended parochial school with several Italian and Irish children from the hood.
The children of these families attended the local public school, which was not far from where I attended.
With only my street friends to expose me to cultural differences (whether positively or negatively), there was little I could find in school that I could relate to in terms of my own, as well as their culture.
(Back in 1960, by its standards, I'm sure the series would have earned 5*****.
Not sure in today's standards how many stars it would earn.)
I knew that I had read some of these books as a child, but never in the correct order, and I didn't recall finishing them all.
I don't think I ever finished it, becasue although I remember the tea stained dress, the rest is a blank.
I think I stopped reading it at the point when Mama had to go to the hospital, which must have frightened me, although now it seems kind of tame.
So, in the series, she included a baby boy's Pidyon, but not a Bris, because that would probably have been too distressing/confusing for her intended audience.
World War I catches up to our favorite girls as Ella's beau Jules is sent overseas and the girls work to support the war effort. For the first time, the family has gentile neighbors, and Ella develops a friendship with the Irish-American Grace. Wartime sadness tinges this one with a bit more melancholy than the earlier books, yet it is full of the same lively humor, as each daughter gets her chance to shine.
Paul and I enjoyed this one too. I was in tears as I read the ending when WWI ends and "the world is at peace." I only wish.
It's hard to rate a young person's book as I'm sure if this had childhood memories for me, I'd rate it higher. Sweet family.
Loved these books. As a kid, I barely knew any Jewish people so that made it even more interesting to read about this family.
This story follows the family through the first World War. Challenges arise, new friendships are formed, and the family offers support and encouragement to one another. Lovely.
As the book starts, Ella is now sixteen and very serious about her boyfriend Jules; Henny is fourteen and popular; Sarah is twelve and dedicating herself to winning the history prize at the end of the school year; and Charlotte and Gertie, at ten and eight, are trying to do everything their older sisters manage...though with limited success.The main stressors in this book are: 1) a new home that is not on the Lower East Side; 2) Mama's illness and hospitalization (her appendix needs to be taken out, which leaves the kids to take care of the house, the Sabbath, etc.); and 3) World War I, primarily as seen through the eyes of Ella, whose seventeen-year-old boyfriend Jules volunteers for the army and marches off to war.
More anecdotes about the five sisters and their younger brother Charlie growing up in 1910s New York City.
This one starts out with the sisters wandering into the wrong apartment when visiting an aunt and uncle for dinner.
Other chapters feature little Charlie lighting matches after being forbidden by his sisters, youngest sisters Charlotte and Gertie attempting to cook on their own, and middle sister Sarah (who appears to be the brain) studying for the History prize.Fans of the other books will enjoy this one, those looking for stories from this time period or those wanting to learn more about Jewish traditions.
The All-of-a-Kind Family books were some of my mother's favorites growing up so of course I read them as a child. I recently re-read them and still enjoyed them as an adult. There are some parts of them that are rather problematic from a religious tolerance perspective but in general they stand the test of time and are sweet well written books.
1917-1919 - Bronx, NYC. The family are trying to doing their best during wartime. Mama stays in the hospital for some time, Ella's romance with Jules is getting more serious, and Sarah aims to win the history prize in her class. A lovely addition to the series. I love these books.
I have a better, deeper appreciation for these books since I've gotten older. I love the storylines and tidbits about the family's lives and customs. My favorite this book, though, was Henny. She reminds me of my sister. She was so fun! All in all, a lovely sort of book.
I missed the narration as I was reading All-of-a-Kind Family Uptown, but the illustrations were sweet. I enjoyed learning more about the family.
This was the best one yet
Still loving the series. This broadens the life of the family into WWI.**Again, the forward is filled with spoilers so read it last!**
Another sweet story. Looking forward to the last in the series.
This continues the charming story of the 5 sisters.
Good, clean, down-to-earth series. A YA read for all ages.
fun young adult read. probably great for 5th to 8th grade
This was probably my favorite so far. I feel like the characters are finally starting to stand out on their own a bit and the plot wasn’t identical to the others.
Task #11: A children’s classic published before 1980. This is a lovely, heart-warming read. The stories revolve around a large family- 6 girls and a boy- living in NYC in the 1910s or so.
