https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/616693.How_to_Be_Rich
This book is titled How to Be Rich, rather than How to Get Rich, for a reason.
The first group is individuals who work best when they entirely work for themselves--when they own and operate their own business.
Next are men who, for whatever reason, do not want to go in business for themselves but who work best when they are employed by others and who share in the profit of the business.
He also talks about his business and personal failures, and what he takes away from them.
Many of which are beyond business.
MISLEADING TITLEThis book goes beyond the matter of making money written by one of the richest people living at his time.
Getty writes that 'richness' is at least as much a matter of character, of philosophy, outlook and attitude, as it is of money.
And to be truly rich, regardless of fortune or lack of it, a man must live by his own values.While several chapters are average ...
Artists of any profession, but in particular entrepreneurs, will profit from Getty's words on being a non-conformist, dissenter and rebel who is seldom if ever satisfied with the status quo.
I got paid to read this. The only interesting or unique part was Getty's personal antcedotes, which we completely dated and sometimes sexist.Did I mention I got paid?
I was inspired to read this book, and bought it, while at the Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California.
He also talks about his vision for America, which even though this book was written in the 60s, sounds very similar to what someone like Warren Buffet would say today.
Also, he has a few chapters on investing on Wall Street, Real Estate, and Art. It's in these few chapters where I can say the times have left him, as much of his advice does not seem relevant today.
In all, he was a great man who left behind a great legacy.
Good book to read.
Overall, this book is now out of date.
This book was supposedly updated for the 80s, but he never ever even thinks about the possibility of a woman using this book (because, you know, it's a man's job to take care of his family.
He also had some faults of logic, for instance, claiming he always thought about how his decisions would affect his employees who depended on him then turning around and saying in the next breath that all costs should be cut as much as possible to increase profits.
What's amazing about this book is that it's not about how to create wealth, but about what it takes to become someone who can handle wealth. He spends an entire chapter blasting the cog-like mentality of the working class, and how the entire educational system sets all of us up to be good employees, not innovators or entrepreneurs. He stresses over and over that money is not the end-all-be-all, and that the pursuit of happiness is empty, it's the pursuit of purpose.
This book wasn't exactly what I expected, more of an insight into Getty's story and his attitude toward society and culture than anything else.
One part of his story missing entirely, and maybe it's just missing from his life, is his relation to any intimate connection in terms of a spouse or children.
In fact, while reading it I had the impression that he had never been married at all, sort of consumed by his business interests, but then learned he had had several wives and children.
The absence of any mention of his close family members leaves the sad impression of someone unable to connect to people in meaningful ways.

Short title, but long on sage advice. Words.Of.Wisdom. From a true business warrior.
Great and insightful knowledge from an American Pioneer.
Very interesting book however it is geared toward men so me reading it I felt like he thinks women can’t be millionaires.
I found this book to be both fun and valuable, especially the first chapter which is essentially Getty's autobiography. There are also good chapters on general ideas like speaking out about one's beliefs, going against the grain, etc. I felt like Getty got off course when he started talking about real estate and other stuff he didn't know as much about, but all in all it was a great book.
At a little over 200 pages, it's also not a long read.Below are some key quotes and sections from the book that stood out for me."The American way of life remains the golden symbol of good living everywhere.
And indeed, Getty is his own case study - an Elon Musk of his time - someone who made great sacrifices to his personal life - perhaps too great - in order to focus on a greater goal.
Although the book’s title may seem misleading—Getty himself dismisses anything that might have even the whiff of a get-rich-quick scheme—on closer inspection the title could also be interpreted another way: how to lead an interesting life that is full of abundance, whether that means achieving monetary wealth or just living with integrity and principle.In any event, there is plenty of advice for the aspiring entrepreneur contained herein, but one of Getty’s central theses is that if you want to make a lot of money in business, you must produce more and better goods or provide more and better services.
Paul Getty says, "No one can rightfully say that American business has discharged its responsibilities and done its job until every employable citizen has steady, full-time employment and until every American family is well-fed.
It is our responsibility to create meaningful work for Americans and raise the standard of living for EVERYONE.This book tackles each of the important aspects of any business such as the mentality of a leader, how to hire employees, how to manage employees, etc..Getty goes also provides sound advice in his favorite areas of investing which are public stocks, real estate, and ART.
He must accept the fact that, despite his wealth and position, there are drawbacks to being a millionaire.
Paul Getty, he shares his opinion's about everything from investing to values.He shares an objective view on the pros and cons of being rich.
I found his views very well balanced.The only thing I disagreed with him on was that our wealth is be used only to better the lives of employees and make profits.
Paul Getty would of used some of his money from his art collecting and put it in the Gospel, it would of yielding much more results to the betterment of the world.
I'm a geologist, I like reading industrial history, and I love Mr. Getty's two California museums.
I guess it was his evident arrogance and misanthropy, and how poorly he treated his five (!) wives and family -- the latter not covered in the first part of this memoir and business-advice book, to where I quit reading.Getty was quoted as having said "A lasting relationship with a woman is only possible if you are a business failure", and "I hate and regret the failure of my marriages.
Most readers liked the book a lot more than I did.
This is indeed an interesting view on business success written by one of the richest men in America. As a success literature student, I had always suspected this was the way to succeed in our economy and beyond. I believe that this book can have a positive impact on anyone who wants to join in on this journey of self-reliance and the art of individuality. It made sense to me, but it may or may not make sense to you. Read it anyway!
My man, J Paul Getty!This book was a seriously good meditation not only on how to get rich, but what it means to rich. It focuses very much on how to be the kind of person who gets rich, including the values guiding the actions of the wealthy.It also has quite a number of specific pieces of advice, from stock-investing to art collecting.Maybe I give so many four star reviews because I screen the books I read beforehand to make sure nothing bad sneaks in?
Zero stars. I hated this so much I skimmed the last 50 pages just to get it over with. I rolled my eyes so many times. One chapter made me think "you pretentious asshole." I almost fell asleep reading this a lot. Ridiculously boring and, after a while, predictable. There's a problem with something on Getty's oil rig? OMG, guess who thought up the solution AND managed to save his company a shit ton of money at the same time! That's right! Getty himself! What a genius!! Fuck that shit.
The title of this book is meant to be taken literally. There is very little, if not vague information on how to accumulate wealth. J. Paul Getty does a wonderfully blunt job of telling us who we must become to attract and maintain wealth. One must keep in mind the time in which this book was written, and remind yourself Mr. Getty has earned the right to speak with such candor by his own level of success in this field.
This is in my top five favorite business books. It is not a pop culture book on dressing the part and repeating positive self afirming statements in the mirror 10 times a day. Advice that I still remember is to not waste your time trying to be like everyone else and his critique of American businessmen not being cultured when they go to Europe and just wanting to go to strip clubs.
Getty's advice is pretty sound--he covers running a business, hiring personnel, showing leadership in the work place, the stock market, real estate, collecting fine art, and being an individual; however, he sounds smug in handing down his knowledge. In the end, his stories are fun, I agree with him on most things, but he can be insufferable.
Worth reading for the personal anecdotes on how Getty made it in the oil business. Also, the word "wildcatter" is awesome. The book itself if more about how to cultivate a rich life, rather than how to become a multibillionaire. (That is, quite literally: How to BE rich in life. Mentally and spiritually, as well as materially.)I liked that. I may read this again sometime.
Working hard always was a the main spotlight of Mr Getty.His advices and tips are fashionable even today, not just for Americans but for everyone.I think he was great manager of people, processes and resaurces.It was no easy for him...but he was an endless optimist. Friend and partner of Ari The Golden Greek, a patriot and much more.
A very good book about entrepreneurship. There are a couple of things I disagree with him on concerning politics and culture, but for the most part I think Getty is right on the money. I also think many people would find this book useful and should read it.
Really like the idea of the millionaire mind.
The memoirs of successful businessmen haven't changed much since the 1960s--and the career advice they offer is pretty much the same, too
Excellent book! Great stock trading advice!
i think this book is very interesting because i think that this book can change my life
