https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32718027-the-city-of-brass
Nahri is rescued by the intervention of Dara, a djinn, who tells her that she’s the only remaining descendent of an ancient half-human, half-magical tribe of healers and promises to take her to the eponymous city of brass, Daevabad, where she will get the answers to all her unasked questions.And so begins Nahri’s entanglement in a world of Islamic mythology and lore, landing herself in a city on a knife’s edge, and in the middle of a political conflict stretching back to the time of Suleiman (or Solomon).
I listened to this on audio as opposed to reading my hardback. I didn't think I would like it but I did and I also liked the narrator! OMG! I love my stained, numbered, & signed edition of the book! I'm addicted to these kinds of books. Look at the beauty!Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾
Many people realize Nahri’s talents and believe her magic to also work spiritually, which is why she gets hired a lot to cleanse and heal people at Zar Ceremonies, where she leads dances and prayers to be rid of demons/ifrits, which she doesn't believe in.Our story truly starts at a Zar Ceremony where Nahri is doing the steps she normally does while really just putting on a show to get paid at the end of the night, except this time she actually does feel something after an old song is sung.
Image from deviantart.netThe frustrated pursuers have made Cairo a no-go zone for Nahri, so she and the djinn, Dara (which is a small portion of his entire name) head for the place where people of his sort reside, the world capital of the magical races, Daevabad, the Brass City of the title.
I’m a big history buff and with The City of Brass I wanted to recreate some of the stunning worlds I’d read about while also exploring traditional beliefs about djinn.
3.5⭐✨ The long-overdue review finally posted.✨This could and would have been a 5-star read for me had it not been for that incredibly slow start all the way through almost the end of the book. The first half was very much foundational which introduced us to the world, the characters, as well as the inner workings and machinations of the city of Brass. Obviously, this is highly appreciated but I don’t think we needed to spend the entire three-quarters of the book just getting introduced to things
Initially, I rated it 4.5 stars (purely for the ending) but I don’t think spending almost the entirety of the book bored or confused only to get an explosive ending is a reason enough to be this generous so, I took it down a notch to 3.5 stars.At first glance, this novel was everything I dreamt of, a Middle Eastern folklore.
The frustration alone almost made me quit because I felt like I was reading with my eyes closed.I still don’t know the difference between a Daeva and a djinn!Now onto the characters:✨ Nahri:Oh, dear.
Full review FINALLY posted Every time I think about this book and how excited I was to read it and how it caused me the biggest disappointment of my life I laugh through my tears bc wHY WAS I EXPECTING ANYTHING LESSIm aware ^ sentence made no sense but im really fragile and vulnerable and sad right now also it took me like 3 weeks to read this book ??? so I also feel scammed. I want a refund my time and tears.i'm terribly sad to be writing such a review because i had SO MUCH HIGH hopes for this
Okay, so this is slightly hilarious but I before I read this tragedy, I wrote a pre-review of sorts gushing my heart out about how proud and honoured I was to see an #OwnVoice muslim+/middle eastern fantasy so well celebrated in the YA community (don’t get me wrong, I still am SO HAPPY to see such diversity become a more common occurrence) but LIKE AT THAT POINT I WAS WILLING TO 5 STAR IT ON THAT BASIS ONLY I DIDN’T KNOW THE PAIN AND DISAPPOINTMENT THAT WAS IN STORE FOR ME :’) (s) Onto the review tho…
That was my first introduction to Sinbad the Sailor and Aladdin's Wonderful Lamp and many other wonderful tales.
And it was my first introduction to Genies, as they were spelled in that wonderful book.When I ventured into City of Brass, it was like stepping back into that wonderful confusion one feels when one ventures into an 'exotic' (not your own) culture.
This was not my magic, not my wondrous beings and creatures.
Fantasy is rich in many flavor; in fantasy, we are all citizens of the magical worlds.
I just finished reading this by the dying light of my cellphone while small, devious looking insects clamored towards the light and attacked my face.
That is how spellbinding this book is...I could not put it down.
I haven't had that kind of visceral "No one touch this book, it is actually a clever extension of my hand, and I will BITE you if you come between me and these characters" reaction in awhile.
Chakraborty has some truly dazzling workdbuilding skills, but beyond that, she crafts remarkable characters who are achingly real and complex.
I am going to be throwing this book at people when it releases in November!!!!
For one, I realised how relieved I felt when I decided to quit on it.Second, I would stop mid-sentence and paragraph several times.
Third, I do not think I'll be missing out on greatness if I don't read it.
😬I want to blame the book.
I think I will blame the book.
But this could also very well be that I haven't been in the mood to read fantasy books in forever.
So I'm putting a stop to this before it puts me in a slump, since I was getting more and more reluctant to read it.God knows when I'll pick it up.
I lost my focus, empathy, and any willpower to live about 300 pages ago, unfortunately.To be fair this is all really just personal preference but I really could not click with the writing style at all and my experience was GREAT...ly affected in a way that made it impossible to actually read and enjoy the book.🌷 PLOT & CHARACTERS, WHICH WERE, SURPRISE, BORING What made the dry-dense-makes-me-want-to-die writing even WORSE was that for like the first 50% of the book, all Nahri and Dara were doing was roaming around in the desert.
This is an AMAZING debut and definitely one of the best adult fantasy books I've found.
I wish there were more fast-paced, creative, fun stories like this that feature 20-something characters!
The world was absolutely gorgeous & vivid, the characters were all strong, and the writing was great...
everything flowed so well.
(PS - some readers often ask, so just a heads up that there's a lot about demons & possession in this story).
And this isn't necessarily about the story, but I'm so glad I waited for the UK hardcover because EVERYTHING about it is stunning.
Nahri and Dara each have trouble that may await them there in Daevabad, for different reasons.The chapters of The City of Brass (2017), S.A. Chakraborty’s debut fantasy novel based on Middle Eastern mythology, alternate between two characters’ points of view: Nahri, the feisty young con artist with a mysterious magical heritage, and Prince Alizayd al Qahtani, the second son of the ruler of Daevabad.
In this exotic setting, Chakraborty examines some timeless human issues, like prejudice, torn loyalties, and the effect of violence on a person’s heart.The City of Brass has a fast-paced beginning that sucks the reader right in, as Nahri and Dara flee through the desert toward Daevabad, pursued by deadly enemies, and develop a relationship based on equal parts irritation and attraction.
It's like the Star Wars Prequel Trilogy.
on hold, whoops
This is Daevabad, the city of the Daeva, which went through many revolutions, dynasties and uprisings (...and Nahri's arrival may cause another one soon).I'm often disappointed by political intrigue because I can point out who is "good" and who is "bad", who is going to be betrayed and who will betray them, but not here.
Finally a book about political intrigue that isn't completely predictable!I loved Nahri.
It will be fun.Now, I do think this book had some pacing problems (...for half of the book, Nahri isn't even in Daevabad) but they didn't bother me that much, because more time meant more complex worldbuilding, exactly what I wanted.
It definitely felt like 500+ pages of exposition, but it had good character and world building that got me invested by the end.
I wasn't a fan of one of the POVs at first, but once the characters met I was glad we'd had his insight into the world.I'll be honest, this is one of those type of epic fantasy series that I enjoy while reading it, but will probably feel too intimidated by the sequel to pick it up right away and then eventually my interest will wane.
But if I had the sequel right now, I would jump right into it.
I received a copy of this book from Edelweiss in exchange of an honest review.Full review originally posted on my blog:   Word Wonders  Content Warnings: Death, blood, violence, assault, passing mention of rape.Well. This book was a ride to say the least, a wild ride but a ride that took me forever and it’s not even the book’s fault. I was in the most awful slump while fighting my way through it but I luckily had the good sense to sort that slump out before diving back in, and more seriously thi
Don’t get me wrong, I adore it and all but I had a hard time grasping it the first chapters with all the creatures/tribes/families introduced in the span of a few chapters, I was confused a bit and had trouble keeping up, but the author doesn’t fail in reminding us who these people are throughout the story, and there’s also a glossary (is that what it’s called?) at the end which helped a lot as well.
Once that confusion cleared, I adored it, it actually became one of my favorite things about the story.The only question I have regarding the worldbuilding (the book really) is how The Gezziris have this history that isn’t really explained?

Thief discovers she has magic, binds an old magic to herself, has to run a LONG WAY AWAY, has adventures, makes it to a magical city, is heralded as a lost princess, has two magical guys fighting over her, and it ends with a tragedy with a silver lining.Oh. Right.
Good long stretches.
And more good long stretches where I'm pumped up.
despite the love triangle.I had a pretty good time there.
The END was pretty good.The rest of this rather long novel, though?
I've read 3-4 Jinn based novels that WERE gorgeous.
I have to say I am very, very glad that I was able to get to this one because although it was on my radar already, this shortlisting made me get around to reading it a whole lot quicker and I was really pleasantly surprised by how much I liked it.This story starts off by following Nahir, a young girl who is able to heal herself instantly.
Magic is quickly more than an imagining, and entering the world of the Daeva is dangerous and fascinating...Alongside Nahir's story we also have Ali's story.
It might just be me.I really loved Nahri's character from the beginning.
She is one of two main characters in this book.
It was at least fifty percent over (in a 500+ page book) by the time his story line became enjoyable, and I think most of the reason for that was because he finally meets with Nahri.
In a mystery plot, the end goal is solving the mystery.
But I can't make a case for any other end goal so I guess that's it?There were times the dialogue felt stiff and cliched, predictable even.

However, S.A. Chakraborty has achieved something quite unique and remarkable with City of Brass, incorporating elements from Middle Eastern folklore (the book’s title itself is named after a story of the same name from One Thousand and One Nights) along with a heady infusion of magic combined with the rich history and culture of the time period.There’s also a whole other side to this tale featuring Prince Alizayd, the rather idealistic and sheltered younger son of the current king of Daevabad.
BUDDY READ with ~~ critical reader ~~The City of Brass is a part of a  Muslim  Fantasy trilogy??? A combo I definitely didn't see coming but YAASSSS, GIMME THE GOODS. 😍
*screeches until the end of time*HANDS DOWN ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I HAVE READ THIS YEAR
[3.5 Stars] I really enjoyed the world-building of the different castes of djinn/daeva in this.
However, I read this as an audiobook, and I really did not enjoy the narration.
There is a bit of a love triangle (one of the love interests is over 1,400 years older than our 19-20 year old main character.
Nahri is the main character who is plain but who all the boys love...
I guess, mainly, the characters weren't something I enjoyed, and I disliked their romances.
I enjoy YA, but it's like when you accidentally get a skittle when you're expecting an M&M.
*I received a copy from Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review*"I promise not to go to war without your permission." THE PLOT If you're a fan of Rebel of the sands and An ember in the ashes, this is the book for you.Nahri is a thief who lives in Cairo and she has a special power, she can heal people and she always knows if a person is sick and where the sickness is. She's also living on the streets and she's always ready to trick some rich nobles in order to steal from them. During one of he
If you're a fan of Rebel of the sands and An ember in the ashes, this is the book for you.Nahri is a thief who lives in Cairo and she has a special power, she can heal people and she always knows if a person is sick and where the sickness is.
So Nahri and Dara start their journey to Daevabad, the City of brass, where all the djinni tribes live.
We have two protagonists, Nahri and Ali, and we read from both of their pov.Nahri: like I've already said, she's a thief with a healing power but she quickly discovers that she's the only survivor of the Nahidi family.
Got loads of thoughts on this book so wait for the video! I loved the start... the entire middle was slow and boring to me...but the end was ok! I am not SURE if i am going to read book two.. we shall see
Now, while Nahri has a gift with healing she doesn't believe in magic or otherworldly things....until by mistake she summons an ancient Dijin warrior called Dara who after discovering she's some half-bred nobility whisks her away to his magical city, Daevbad.
She sounds so shrewd and calculating and I quite enjoyed her, but after meeting Dara, and going through a boring journey that takes half of the book I started liking her less and less.
Dara was, ugh, so bossy, he tried to control her and limited her choices, and he's the kind of guys "who thinks what's better for you to do"...oh and not to mention (view spoiler)[ he's a war criminal who committed massacres.
