https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1509432.Der_Untertan
All of this sounds dreary, but Mann has a way of making fun of this little tyrant.
We can poke fun at his insecurities, or how he bandies about the words 'honor' and 'glory', as if that means anything to him.
With the distance of just over a century, we know what the Kaiser has done to Germany, and we can ridicule what happens.But at the end of the story, after Hessling dedicates a gaudy statue to the Kaiser (one of his proudest achievements), the whole town is swept up by a lightning storm, and Diederich is seized with visions of the town in ruins, as if "he has seen the devil".
Man of Straw  is the best known novel of German author Heinrich Mann originally published in German under the title "Der Untertan" whatever that means. I'll have to go look it up, but it probably has nothing to do with the words "Man of Straw" because that seems to happen fairly often. It has been translated into English under the titles "Man of Straw", "The Patrioteer", and "The Loyal Subject", and obviously I got the "Man of Straw" copy. Heinrich Mann was a German novelist who wrote works wit
The Power which transcends us and whose hoofs we kiss, the Power which is beyond the reach of hunger, spite and mockery!"Now I'm already thinking the guy is crazy and we're not out of the first chapter yet, then we have this happen,"Diederich looked like a man in a very dangerous state of fanaticism (no kidding), dirty and torn, with wild eyes - from his horse the Emperor gave him a piercing glance which went through him.
'Is it...really...you...my Diederich!'Ok, reading over that again, I can see that maybe there are two crazy people in the book.
"O νομοταγής πολίτης" στα Ελληνικά, εκδόσεις Οδυσσέας
Diederich is Trump, basically, except for the Kaiser-worship. Interesting indeed. Diederich needs the stupid sycophancy to make the rest of his odious character work, whereas Trump doesn't. Otherwise, it's all narcissism, misogyny, greed and moral vacuity.
Unhappy the nation whose traditional and honorable social forms are broken up by the solvent of democracy, and which allows the disintegrating standpoint of personality to get the upper hand!" Two pages later, the same underliner highlighted part of this passage: "Diederich raised himself on his toes, "Gentlemen," he shouted, carried away on the tide of national emotion, "the Emperor William Monument shall be a mark of reverence for the noble grandfather whom we all, I think I may say, worship almost as a saint, and also a pledge to the noble nephew, our magnificent young Emperor, that we shall ever remain as we are, pure, liberty-loving, truthful, brave, and true!" The underliner (not the untertan) emphasizes Diederich's claim of being "pure, liberty-loving, truthful, brave, and true!" w/ an exclamation mark next to it presumably b/c these are all qualities wch Diederich is completely lacking in.
Wirklich witzig! Was Joseph Roth's Radetzkymarsch für den Österreicher ist, ist der Untertan für den deutschen nur mit deutlich beissenderem Sarkasmus.
Wickedly funny, unflinchingly dark satire. Mann's gift for the telling detail is unerring, and his eye for the tragically absurd is sharp. Among other things, Der Untertan is a delicious parody of the "Bildungsroman," as we follow the protagonist from childhood to maturity and see him become increasingly determined, and increasingly powerful, without becoming less narrow-minded, cowardly, or unconsciously hypocritical. The near-explosive unease of a rigidly structured and rapidly changing society is brilliantly evoked.
So, one of my guilty secrets is that I like the work of Heinrich Mann far better than that of his more successful, Nobel-winning brother. (OK: I'll make an exception for "Death in Venice", but doesn't it seem that everything else that Thomas Mann ever wrote - Buddenbrooks, Der Zauberberg, the dreadful "Felix Krull" - would have benefited tremendously by having its length cut in half?)
تصویر روشنی از جامعه آلمان پیش از به قدرت رسیدن هیتلر، در حقیقت با خوندن این کتاب معلوم میشه در طول چندین سا آلمان خود رو برای پذیرفتن شخصی با خصوصیات اخلاقی هیتلر اماده میکنهکتابی نیست که تنها یا یکبار خوندن بشه همه مطلب رو درک کرد
53/100 Eigentlich gut zweieinhalb, alles weitere später
Diese Gesellschaft stürzte sich nur wenige Monate nach Veröffentlichung des Buchs in trunkener Begeisterung in den Ersten Weltkrieg.Warum, könnte man fragen, gräbt der Hörverlag eine 26 Jahre alte Lesung gerade jetzt wieder für eine Neuveröffentlichung aus?
Es ist tatsächlich die treffende Charakterisierung Diederich Heßlings, doch hoffe ich nicht, dass es eine für den deutschen Mann an sich darstellt (wenn es so etwas wie den prototypischen Deutschen überhaupt gibt oder je gegeben hat).
So ist Der Untertan doch vor allem eine Art Zeitzeugnis für den modernen Leser, aber ein mächtiges Mahnmal deutscher Geschichte.Dieses Hörbuch wurde mir von Random House zur Verfügung gestellt.
Der Klassiker über deb Opportunisten Diederich Heßling. Tucholski sagt über ihn: "Herbarium des deutschen Mannes". Aus dieser autoritätgläubigen servil ausgerichteten Charakterstruktur konnte im Kaiserreich eine erfolgreiche Karriere erwachsen. Ob dies nun typisch deutsch ist oder eine der typischen Charaktere, die sich auch in anderen Kulturen findet, sei dahingestellt. Lesenswert, da bewusstseinschärfend.
I've no idea how to rate this book.
The book is very well written and transmits the author's ideas very well, in my opinion.
But that is precisely why I hated this book so much: the main character, Dietrich, who starts out as a decent human being (which is why his father despises him) gets involved with a fraternity in university, and transforms into the "ideal" man (ie.
From that point on I completely and utterly hated and despised Dietrich.
So in respect to quality, I feel compelled to give the book 4 to 5 stars, but from the point of view of enjoyment...
Macht, Wertanschauung und opportunistisches PopanzProletariat, das ist sowohl folgenschweres Zeitzeugnis wie auch von aktueller Relevanz.Die Figur eines Diederich, seine untertänig wendehälsige Art und Selbsterhöhung als MöchtegernKaiser, das bleibt Erlebnis..doch manche Passagen wie etwa PolitStändeGeplänkel oder TheaterstückSpiegelung hätten rasanter und weniger breitgewalzt ausfallen können.Unterhaltsame TypusDarstellung der (un)persönlichsten Persönlichkeit^^
Geht für mich gar nicht
Man of Straw -- also translated as The Loyal Subject -- is a razor-sharp take-down of the upper middle class buffoons who fervently supported Kaiser Wilhelm --the same type of power-worshipping nativists who later embraced the Third Reich.
This complex combination of physical weakness, willful ignorance, hyper nationalism, capitalistic exploitation of the lower classes, and worship of military power creates "the loyal subject": one who will be attracted to any powerful force upon which he can project his idealized (and unachievable) Self as a way to substitute for his own lack of will and inner fortitude.
century, imperialism, WWI).I did not finish it in time but that was not a problem, because the subject of nationalism and power structures in the Wilhelmine era is present from the very first page to the last and characterizes Diederich (glad we do not name our children like that anymore) throughout his life.Therefore I gained a valuable insight into the literary response to the social development up to 1914 and how Heinrich Mann saw the death of liberalism.
Heinrich Manns "Der Untertan" erschien als Fortsetzungsroman in einer Zeitung und wurde erst nach dem Krieg als Buch veröffentlicht.Es beschreibt auf satirische Weise einen typischen deutschen Mann der Oberschicht.
Da das Buch zwar sehr gut ist, der Titelheld jedoch alles andere als angenehm, war ich froh, dass es das Hörbuch gibt.
Mir persönlich ist das bei schweren Texten eine Erleichterung.
Zum Lachen ist an diesem Roman natürlich leider gar nichts.
Also, kennen sollte man das Buch schon.
Aber eine Freude ist es halt nicht.
Die Scheinheiligkeit bleibt unausrottbar...
Igitt!(Die CDs sind in Abschnitte unterteilt.
Das Booklet enthält eine damalige Buchkritik von Tucholsky.)
I would have given this book three and a half stars if I could of. It was a bit slow at times. It was written in 1918. It is the profile of a bougie german who managed to justify doing all sorts of horrible things. And it is a profile of Germany before the wars. Its amazing how little has changed. Still plagued with materialism, militarism, classism, religion, sexism, and reverence for authority. Its like only the fashions have changed in a century.
I read this as part of a course on German history through literature, and it was interesting to see how Germans lived in the late 19th century, as well as alot of the causes of World War I, which isn't taught as well as it ought to be in schools. My one complaint is that it is a long read, and you continually have to think things over since it is not from our era or culture.
published in English as "Man of Straw."
Ein bewusstseinsschärfendes Zeitzeugnis und ein Mahnmal deutscher Geschichte.
Cok guzel bir kitap ama bir noktadan sonra etrafinda gordugun insanlara ne kadar benzedigini goruyorsun ve zaten gercek hayattan seni bezdiren insanlar hakkinda bir de kitabini okumak gunumuz turkleri icin bir iskenceye donusuyor. Keske kendi hayat sartlarim, kendi cevrem bu kitapla bu kadar bagdasmasaydi.
Ein weiteres Buch aus dem Schulunterricht, das nach wie vor als Standard-Lektüre im Unterricht gilt. Ich denke es ist nicht gerade eines der spannendensten Bücher, aber es gibt schlimmeres und irgendwie hat es nachher doch mein Interesse geweckt, vorallem im Bezug zum Über-Ich und Es als Thema.
Die Sprache ist aber nicht nur korrekt, sondern auch farbig, was auch damit zusammenhängt, dass zumindest in der ersten Buchhälfte Szenenschilderungen mit der angemessenen Knappheit vollzogen werden.Dennoch gelingt Heinrich Mann hier trotz aller Gesinnung keine künstlerische Überhöhung.
In diesem ist Heines Hass auf den reaktionären, bierseligen Deutschen so sehr in überlegenen Spott transformiert, dass man seit dem Erscheinen seiner Verse wohl niemanden mehr ernst nehmen kann, der von Kaiser Rotbart und den alten Germanen schwadroniert und man die Sentimentalitäten mit denen Heine das Wintermärchen serviert in Kauf nimmt.Im Untertan hingegen bleibt, auch auf der Erzählerebene, die Froschperspektive gewahrt.
Beschrieben wird das Leben Diedrich Heßlings, eines kaisertreuen Untertanen um die Jahrhundertwende.
Bereits im ersten Kapitel werden alle seine Charakterzüge dargestellt und daran ändert sich auf den nächsten 450 Seiten nichts mehr.
Daher wurde die Geschichte schnell langweilig.
Zwei Sterne dafür, dass man hier die Charaktereigenschaften der bürgerlichen Mehrheit kennenlernt, die den ersten Weltkrieg, das Scheitern der Weimarer Republik und den Erfolg des Nationalsozialismus ermöglichten.
Personenkult um Kaiser/Führer, Nationalismus, Demokratiefeindlichkeit, Verdrehung der Justiz, absoluter Gehorsam der Obrigkeit gegenüber, Gewalt gegen Schwächere und Duckmäusertum.
Ich habe mich beim Lesen oft gefragt, ob dies (außer dem Nationalismus) nur in Deutschland so ausgeprägt war oder auch in anderen europäischen Ländern zu dieser Zeit.
Sizzling at times, Mann's literary powers get diluted either by way of a runny translation job (maybe?) or by falling into unnecessary plot tributaries that can only serve as social snapshots of the era.
But still it sizzles with ominous force.
The correct prediction of the rise of nationalistic populism in the Weimar Republic is eerie, and unfortunately prescient in these early years of the XXIth century.
The slippery slope that leads to casual procedural shenanigans such as the Wannsee conferences where one group is trying to define half-full-or 1/4 jewry in pursuit of wholesale slaughter begins with wanton fanaticism in the streets and with lazy bystanders that lack moral zeal.And regardless of warnings such as Heinrich's, when virtue sleeps, horror will run roughshod.
A searing indictment of Wilhelmine Germany.
The German title, Der Untertan, translates literally as "The Subject," and it certainly describes the anti-hero of the piece, Diederich Hessling, who professes total, unthinking loyalty to his sovereign, Kaiser Wilhelm II.
Hessling worships Power above all things, and if that power can be made to work toward his material advantage, so much the better.
He relishes German military might, bemoans democracy, and wants women to concern themselves only with "children, kitchen and church" (parroting Wilhelm II's wife).
At times it is quite moralistic, though when considering the subject-matter (the Imperial German society that paved the way for Hitler's bureaucratically realized atrocities), I wonder if such an approach is not uncalled for.
With regard to content, it is a fascinating look at Wilhelmine society as reflected by the impossibly vain, egotistic and self-deceptive Diederich Hessling, a member of the Bürgertum who is not only subject to the Emperor but also to the whims of the society in which he lived.
Not an easy read, though if you're curious about the causes of nationalism, Jingoism or anti-Semitism in German society (or at least how they were able to thrive as they did), it is well worth the time.
The main of this novel is character a despicable man who believes he is always right and follows his blind love for the Kaiser wherever it takes him; breaking old friendships and connections along the way because he is feeling superior to them in all aspects. He's a follower that believes he is a leader and the first Untertan to his Kaiser. Satirical, exaggerated, and very blatantly non-PC in parts, this is a very enjoyable read- despite or maybe because of a character it is impossible to like.
