https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351.Starman_Jones
Astrogators in space!One of Heinlein's earlier juvenile novels, this is one where RAH describes in great detail the machinations of the astrogators, quite a bit dated now with computers and it is amusing to imagine as he did a trio of math geniuses sitting in chairs with slide rules charting out a space ship's course, but that was part of his charm. Some thin characterizations along with some very 1950sish language, but Heinlein was working his very peculiar magic and this is all the while a fine sci-fi story.
A young man "inherits" somewhat informally a set of "astrogator's" texts and then sets out to get "sponsored" to get into the Astrogator's guild", the only way to become an astrogator, someone who plots the course of starships through deep space.
One of Heinlein's so called teen novels and a good read.
It dates back to 1953 and as I said is very dated, but in an odd way that adds to the book, much as some of Verne's books are.
If you can track it down it might just be worth a read.
Another typical (great!) Heinlein YA novel about a farm boy who makes good.
The main characters in this book aren't angels.
They break the law - bad ones mostly - for reasons they think are sufficient (I always thought so) & reap the consequences afterward, but still come out ahead.
He runs away, gets fake ID with the help of a rough, but kind stranger.
Then he gets a break & the adventure takes off.The moral message running through this book; do the right thing & do it as best you can.
Think for yourself.
Great book for middle school through adult.
An SF Juvenile originally published 60 years ago, 1953, & it shows its age in a few places, but was still a wonderful yarn with one of my favorite characters in it, Sam. Hardly the perfect hero or role model, he was a lot of fun & showed the main character, Max, the ropes.The age of the story was most apparent in the technology.
Kind of a blast from the past & a reminder of how far we've come in such a short time.The way star & commuter ships moved held up pretty well as did the almost military discipline of the ship.
I originally read these stories as a kid & aspired to be like Heinlein's boy heroes.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Binary Equivalents: "Starman Jones" by Robert A. Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-07-24)Random rumblings on our inability to predict the future.Pop-up display screens and visual aiming (guiding a missile by looking at the target) for fighter pilots is discussed in the recent fiction paperback "FoxFire.'' The technology for visual aiming is actually quite old. It is derived from the device (I'm not sure what it is called) used by psychologists to measure eye movements.
Everything from Friday on was pretty much Heinlein getting his freak on, but his earlier novels are still sci-fi classics for good reason.Starman Jones is your basic boys' adventure story: Max is a kid from Earth who runs away from home when his stepmother marries an abusive bum.
I might not start with Starman Jones if you haven't read any of Heinlein's juveniles before -- it's pretty good, but it's not his best -- but if you're already a Heinlein fan, this will definitely be an enjoyable read.
The ship's navigational problems are used as a pretext to avoid examining the society--but there's not much discussion of it when the ship is on its normal course, either.One interesting note--Max's eidetic memory is quite rightly dismissed as a parlor trick.
Heinlein even goes so far as to use the derisory term 'idiot savant', which is no longer used precisely because it's so dismissive and offensive.
Then when a few do find ways to communicate really quite remarkable abilties, they're doubly stigmatized.Many people with otherwise quite ordinary talents have these 'stupid human tricks' special skills.
While I'm tooling around the world and history of writers I tripped upon Robert Heinlein.
I have to say during the first two chapters I almost stopped reading because I felt like I was back in high school and it just wasn't sitting well with me.
Then we finally got to space I got it, I really enjoyed it.
The main character, a few extra characters and of course space were interesting.
I don't know if I'll read anymore of his books but I will say I'm really glad I did.
Robert Heinlein is an amazing writer puts together a beautiful sentence.
For Max, it's a berth as a steward's mate, and he's tending farm animals again, but he's on a starship, and he's a plucky, resourceful, just plain likable young Heinlein hero, who makes you buy into every improbable plot twist along the way to his dream.Once again, great fun.Update, May 2017: Rereading this decades after originally reading this is interesting.
It's still a fun story, with the plucky, young Heinlein hero who makes you buy into all the improbable plot twists.
I enjoyed reading this several times on my own, but really enjoyed reading it (in small bits) with the kids in 2013.
It is the second Heinlein novel I went through with them, after The Star Beast and they loved them both.
Come to think of it, it has been over the time that we've been reading this that Lily first declared her intention to become an astronaut when she grows up (with the proviso that it might be too hard, and if it is, she's going to become a "smoothie girl.") Somehow that combination underlines all the benefits one might hope for in introducing one's children to Heinlein.
This is one of my favorite Heinlein Juvies. I first read it when I was about 10 years old. It launched my lifelong interest in space and rockets and wanting to be a spaceman, to get off earth and explore the galaxy. It's about a poor kid making good and becoming the Captain of a spaceship through a series of improbable events. Whenever, I feel the need to rekindle that feeling of wonder and need to explore or advance, I re-read this book.
Omg I need a Mr. chips!
This is typical Heinlein youth fiction.
Though, this isn’t the best of the youth novels; it certainly isn’t the worst.
Heinlein takes a stab at the injustice of the class system.
He loves his guns, the constitution, freedom, etc.
My favorite part of the book is Max’s (the protagonist) obsession with his library book.
Of course it is dated, but it was written in the early 50s.
Usually I find Heinlein’s sexism almost endearing, but in this book, I was almost offended.
As a whole, I would recommend this, but not as a first encounter with Heinlein’s youth fiction.
Had this one for so many years. I always wanted to get thru Heinlein's juveniles, and am slowly getting there.This one holds up to time as a rollicking space adventure for our main character, a poor farm boy, Max Jones, who joins on to a spaceship, run by the form of Navy, first under an assumed name, then through all mishaps and misadventures, becomes a legitimate member of the ship.It was a quick and enjoyable read.
This novel is written towards boys who have not yet been twitterpated. And it's written well. As I am not the target demographic, being female and I've most definitely been twitterpated, this book doesn't follow along the natural paths I expect it to. However, it is still an amazing book.
(This also happens in Tunnel in the Sky, for example.)It's a really interesting technique, and I'm not sure what I think of it.
I think it does kind of add to an overall sense of realism for the series as a whole, because the individual stories are shown to be subordinate to the systems, institutions, and trends of the larger setting (which cross multiple stories).
I think in some ways, it's just (1) a fun plot twist and (2) a way to have the character go through the final stage of growth.
It has not stood the test of time quite as well some of his other titles.
They are vapid, predatory, vicious, or good but on the stupid side.
"You need the little darlings but you need to keep them in their places" pretty much sums up his attitude to a large degree in this book.All the vital characters are men.
Will that planet over yonder be good to colonize?
Will Max's perfect memory stand up under this stress?
The aliens in this book are not particularly memorable in my opinion.
I'd call this perhaps a 3.5 rather than a real 4 star title.
I found that I remembered less about Starman Jones than any of Heinlein's other works than I read years ago.
The scientific aspects seem more dated here than in most of his other works, I'm afraid, and I didn't much care for the ending; he decides astrogators shouldn't marry, so he abandons the girl and returns to space, much as a cowboy would kiss his horse on the nose and ride off into the sunset in a 1930's oat-opera movie.
Still, it's good Heinlein, with a dash of comedic romance and interesting philosophy of duty and honor.
Typical Heinlein juvenile - but I love them!
This was okay, I guess.
It's always kind of fun to read pre moon landing science fiction involving space travel.
The quirky mechanics of space travel was really the book's only redeeming quality.I always feel myself groan inwardly when someone writes characters from rural areas stereotypically.
Most of the characters are flat.
The plot drags on, and the conclusion was pretty anticlimactic.
Maybe I'm expecting too much of this book after really enjoying The Moon is a Harsh Mistress?!
Even so, I can't bring myself to give it more than two stars, as I was pretty bored throughout most of it.
A solid and enjoyable Heinlein entry.
The edition I read had a foreward that talks about how this is one of Heinlein's efforts to write a science fiction Horatio Alger story.
As Heinlein points out, it's actually modeled after a real story, but that doesn't mean it's real believable ;) Just focus on the entertainment value; you won't get your plausibility fix here.The last third of the story takes a couple of turns I didn't love, but it's just a personal preference and I'm not the writer.
The story is good and worth a read, especially if you are partial to Heinlein and aren't looking for something too heavy.
Good spacey fun, probably a bit forgettable but I read it in a day so didn't drag. I really like these kinda YA Heinleins, they have an upbeat and warm feel that you'd enjoy as a child as well as a gr'up.
The sixth of the Heinlein Juveniles, it is the last one to be fully illustrated by Clifford Geary.It is also the first of his juveniles to postulate interstellar travel.
His adventures aboard the Asgard constitute the main body of the story and I’ll allow the reader to enjoy them.As a novel, Starman Jones works on several levels.
The book can also be read as a coming of age story: Max starts out a boy and finishes as a man.
Prescient as he was about future technological innovation, he also foresaw women taking a more equal role in future society.Starman Jones is also the last book to be fully illustrated.
He runs away from home, from Earth, and becomes a seasoned space traveller.Let's get one thing straight: Like most science fiction of its era, this book did not age well in that its science is somewhere between fluffy and dumb.
Obviously, exceeding the speed of light does not work, and Heinlein should have known that in 1953.On the plus side, the characters in Starman Jones are fairly well developed for a Heinlein book.
But if you're into hard sci-fi, you'll probably find Starman Jones a stomach turner.Rating: Very difficult, but in the end, my love for escapist space travel adventuring wins out on this one, plus I like the characters (for the most part), I decided to award it 4 out 5.
Indeed, most everyone except his devotees seems to have forgotten that Heinlein began his career by writing juvenile fiction, a good example of which is his farmer-turned-spaceman adventure Starman Jones.Ever since he was a child, Max Jones has yearned to go into space.
After his father died, Max ended up working the family farm day in and day out, which left little time for anything but dreaming.
Apprentice or stowaway, either option sounds fine to Max. With Biff in the picture, it's off-world or bust.There's plenty in Starman Jones that hasn't aged well.
This is one of Heinlein's "juveniles"--that is, what we now call young adult.
I tend to prefer quite a few of those to his adult novels such as Stranger in a Strange Land.
I wouldn't count this among his best in that category though--of which my favorite is Citizen of the Galaxy.
I'd say it's only about average for Heinlein--which still means it's very good indeed.
This is the coming of age tale of a boy who goes from dirt between the toes farm boy to the stars.
Yes, some aspects are dated--social aspects such as the relations between the sexes and the technology, especially computer tech seems...quaint.
This is the book that got nine-year-old me started on a fifteen-year science fiction binge, until the genre started to get darker and edgier (and duller).
On re-reading the book recently, I winced a bit at some of the attitudes towards women, but that was par for the course in 1953 and the female protagonist was a tough cookie, as were some of the other women.
In short, I enjoyed it for what it is, and will doubtless read it again – though perhaps not enough times to make the book fall to pieces as I did all those years ago!
So I just read this book, and now on Goodreads see that I read it in 1988; this is probably the 3rd or 4th time I've read it.
It's funny how Heinlein made the future seem so real in his books, but he's always got one leg stuck directly in the past (or perhaps half his body).
In this future of starships, the main character still grows up isolated on a farm (which is one reason I identified with the thing when I read it when I was in the 7th or 8th grade).
Still, it's a brisk, engaging read.
The point is, Heinlein devised a way to navigate a starship in 1953 … and it would probably have worked just fine.Here's how Wikipedia defines Steampunk:“Steampunk is a subgenre of science fiction or science fantasy that incorporates technology and aesthetic designs inspired by 19th-century industrial steam-powered machinery.”The tech, such as it is, in Starman Jones was almost certainly inspired by the electro-mechanical genius behind battleship gun sighting “computers” in the 1940s.
What is Science fiction? The art of weaving a fantastic adventure and making it seem plausible - using science. Make no mistake, it is an art and one that the likes of Heinlein and Asimov, practice with finesse. Robert Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke, and Isaac Asimov are the grandmasters of the SciFi tradition. They defined the genre, IMO. And you can read Starman Jones to figure out why Heinlein counts among them.Come with an open mind, a spirit of adventure and wonder. Look at the stars and wonder, what if I was there!
