https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3300083-the-moomins-and-the-great-flood
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A playful introduction to the world of moomins, replete with charming illustrations.
the story itself is meandering and simple and dreamlike, but coupled with these amazing illustrations, it is hard not to love it like candy:
i love the way the moomin characters look in this book - they are just rough sketches of what would later evolve into the more round and sweet and familiar moomins of the later books.from:
along the way, they meet other characters who will later become moomin "regulars" and moomintroll will eat too much candy in a sort of willy wonka-type wonderland.also, there will be cats:
On no account should anyone trying Tove Jansson for the first time start with this book, the original Moomin story, published in 1945 and recently translated into English for the very first time.
As a child I thought Jansson was referring to the one in Moominsummer Madness, a later book in the series, and was deeply confused about the time frame of the books, which, for a time, rather put me off the moomins until I was older and better able to cope with ambiguity!
I had heard of Tove Jansson and her Moomins, but that was pretty much the extent of my knowledge.
It was therefore a lovely surprise to discover this fairy tale, featuring Moomintroll and Moominmamma in their search for a place to live and their long lost Moominpappa.
It is therefore not surprising that this is a ‘disguised’ tale of families divided and highlights an anxious yearning for safety in all its meanings.
So simple in some occasions but full of feeling.
I’m in awe!I don’t know how this first volume compares with the rest of the series, but from a new reader, I am charmed.
I loves me some Moomins!This is the original story, coming in 1945 before the comic strip or the first of the famous novels, Comet in Moominland.
It has none of the satire of either of the former but it does have the same bizarre, delightful, magical world of strange creatures and peculiar adventures, featuring everybody's favourite troll family.
Speaking of delightful, Jansson's illustrations are as wonderful and playful as you would expect.
It's a quick, fun read, a short story even by kiddy standards, excellent for filling in a moment when I was unable to focus sufficiently for my more demanding current reading projects.

To było o wiele dziwniejsze niż się spodziewałem, ale traktuję Małe trolle i dużą powódź jako swego rodzaju prequel do uniwersum Muminków :)
We loved reading this first moomin book again. Lovely to see the first tentative drawings of the moomins. We were really shocked how this book must have hugely influenced Roald Dahl, this story pre dates charlie and the chocolate factory but has too many similarities to be a coincidence.
I remember Moomintroll from TV adaptations and Jackanory readings from when I was a child, but I've never read any of Jansson's Moomin stories until now.
Then there's the old man who has created a world made out of chocolates (Fazer brand), sweets and lemonade, prefiguring Dahl's Willy Wonka, though I'm uncertain as to any direct connection.A great story for children, and I'm sorry that I didn't come to these books in time to read them to mine - I think I've a while to wait for grandchildren, but when they arrive Moomintroll will be waiting for them!
#2016-aty-reading-challenge-week-30: A fairytale from a culture other than your own.The first of the Moomin fairytales by the Scandinavian author, Tove Jansson, is quite charming. Moomintroll and his mama set off on an odyssey to find a nice sunny place where they can build a house. Along the way, they make new friends, face dangers and reunite with Moominpappa. A timeless children's classic.
As with all of Tove Jansson's work, The Moomins and the Great Flood is an absolute delight. I chose to reread it during the summer, and gloried once more in its beautiful illustrations, and its inventive story. The artwork here is both whimsical and dark, and sets the tone wonderfully. Immersive and glorious.
Awww, I hadn't even known of the existence of Moomins until yesterday. These are short, delightful reads - I wish mine was an illustrated one, though!
I watched the TV series with my parents because they were a bit too scary sometimes.
But I realised that I never read the books, therefore I decided that I should read them.
This is the first in the series and it's a really short book.
I've heard a lot of people saying that this is the least good in the series.
It's simply short and sweet, and the art work is lovely!
But I feel like you can skip this and start on the second book as well, since this is more like a random story which brings an introduction to the Moomins.
There are times when even as an adult I would love to have someone like her to turn to.I adored the Moomins as a child but with with so few of the books in print in English back then, I was reduced to reading Finn Family Moomintroll repeatedly and always with the vague feeling that some part of the story was missing, with so many references to past events that I felt I was supposed to understand.
Read now because of the blog event Women in Translation Month.I don't really know Moomin characters like many of you do: I didn't see a Moomin book until the age of 7 or 8 (and remember realising these were the Moomin things some of the other kids had been talking about) By then, they looked a bit 'babyish'.
Despite being a massive Moonin fan when I was a kid, for some reason I never ended up reading the books.
And what's a better start than the first Moomin book ever?The Moomins and the Great Flood is a short story of Moomintroll and Moominmamma searching for Moominpappa, who's gone off adventuring with Hattifatteners.
Along their journey, Moomintroll and Moominmamma meet curious creatures and persons, and find themselves in scary as well as in peculiar places.
Tove's drawings and paintings really makes this book come alive.This was an odd read for someone who've seen the animated TV show for hundreds of times, but it was still very interesting as this was the book that started it all.
I happily started the Moomins serie! It is adorable and so so nice to just get to know their story and adventures! I'm looking forward to reading the following books for I know they're going to be happy reads
I know I tried to read the Moomin stories when I was little, but something about them felt very bleak, and very scary, and I just couldn't.
It wasn't until I went and spent a considerable amount of time in Finland and Sweden that I thought I ought to give them another go, for they are so very beloved, even by my nearest and dearest, and still I'd refused to read them.
I feel this is the right time for Moomin and his family, and I, to become good friends.
I hope the others are as delightful as this.
I read elsewhere that even though The Moomins and the Great Flood is the first book in the series, it is not recommended as an introduction: the main characters arriving fully formed later on.
This was the first story to be written but the last to be translated into English.
The Moomins, looking for a home, cross an inhospitable land to find their missing father.
Mostly, though, it is a classic adventure story, heightened by beautiful descriptions of nature and Tove Jansson's charming, touching illustrations.
Delightful, charmingly illustrated little story.
I watched one episode and thought it was bizarre, a little scary and intriguing.
After that brief introduction, I thought I'd look into this Moomins fairytale and I can't help but feel a little sad that Moomins were not part of my childhood.
Like a Scandinavian Miyazaki, Tove Jansson's Moomin characters and world feel both real and fanciful.
Though simple in style, the story subtly reveals full characters with personalities.A minute grievance: I wouldn't have named this story The Moomins and the Great Flood considering how little a part the flood plays.
This tells the great adventure of two Moomins, Moominmamma and her child Moomintroll, as they search for Moominpappa and a warm place to build their home. They meet new friends, small creature and Tulippa, who decide to come with them on their journey and help carry out daring exploits at the heart of a great flood.This is a very creative and enjoyable children’s story, even stirring a few memories of my own whimsical juvenile adventures. Too bad I haven’t heard of the Moomins when I was a kid. :-(
Exquisite in every way - the feel of it in my hands, the illustrations (pen and ink as well as beautiful sepia washes), the slender and rather endearing noses of these early versions of Moominmamma and Moomintroll, the quest for Moominpappa, the endpapers, the design. Also a steal at half the cover price.
Delightfully odd children's story. Just dark enough to be engaging. I don't normally like things this random but it rides that fine line between absurd and compelling.
I absolutely love Moomin since I was a child and decided to re-read the books. This brought back so many memories and I thoroughly enjoyed this quick read!
Wreszcie wiem, skąd się wziął Ryjek :D
Ensimmäinen muumisatu on omassa keskeneräisyydessään varsin lumoava. Muumit näyttävät kuvituksessa hieman kapeammilta versioilta, kuin mihin yleensä olemme Janssonien kynistä tottuneet ja onpa tässä tarinassa muutenkin vähän erilaista näkökulmaa ja syvyyttä tuttuihin hahmoihin. Muumipappa huitelee omilla teillään ja Mamma poikineen lähtee puolisoaan etsimään.
Ihan soma kirja, jossa oli monenlaisia mielikuvituksellisia juttuja. Valotti muumien alkuperää kivasti.
It's worth cultivating European friends to get your hands on a copy, or pressuring Square Fish (who now seem to own printing rights to the series in North America) to do a domestic run of The Moomins and the Great Flood for the first time ever.
The tale of Moomintroll and his mother searching for their lost father is a ride from one fun event to another, but it also hides allegorical nature connected to the time it was written in.The second world war is not known for the art that was produced during it.
However, when Jansson found she had hard time making visual arts, she turned to fairy tales and created her most enduring characters.
And maybe there's reason to that as well, because I feel that this story isn't in the level where Moomins rose later.
The first feeling I had after finishing the book was "Is the story already over?" and second "It felt odd".
The story is short and well-written, but one can see that it's only the first book of the "series", mostly because all the little things felt a bit off, because it didn't happen in the place we know as Moominvalley at all.
So overall an interesting little story where one can get the glimpse of the Moomins before all the more famous books.
