https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223755.Der_Wendepunkt
He was a master satirist, a sensitive observer, and at the same time he had a passion for making a point.The Turning Point is partly a memoir and partly a historical sketch describing both the Mann household and the political and social events that shaped the family and the first half of the 20th century.
There was no going back.I highly recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in the Mann family or the detail of political and cultural life in Germany during the 1920s and 30s.
Bewertung aus der Erinnerung: Mir gefiel das Buch damals sehr, weil es teilweise auch um die Emigrantenszene geht. Und weil man viel über die Kultur der 20er Jahre erfährt. Tolles Zeitzeugnis!
durch den gesellschaftlichen Status der Eltern erreichten und um Angehörige der eigenen Generation erweiterten Bekanntenkreises durch die komplette Schriftstellerkarriere.Peter Viertel hat diese Gattung auf ihren Gipfel geführt, Bernward Vesper ist ehrlicher beim Austragen der Konflikte mit dem Vater und dem Umgang mit der eigenen Drogenkarriere*, aber selbst wenn man KM zugute hält, dass man manche Sachen besser für sich behält, wenn man sich um eine amerikanische Staatsbürgerschaft bemüht oder nicht ohne väterliche Beihilfen auskommen kann, bleibt der Wendpunkt eine insgesamt unbefriedigende Lektüre, gelegentliche Höhepunkte verstärken sogar noch diesen Eindruck.
(Ausführliche Rezi mit Einordnung in den Kontext folgt, hoffentlich, bald) *zugegeben eine Generation später und in einem anderen gesellschaftlichen Umfeld
Voor mijn negentiende verjaardag kreeg ik Klaus Mann's Mephisto cadeau van mijn vader, hij had het in zijn jonge jaren met plezier gelezen.
Nu heb ik hem dus uit en ik snap meer dan ooit waarom ik dit boek heb laten liggen.De eerste 300 bladzijden gaan over de jeugd van Klaus Mann, het gezin Mann, met alle fabels die je bij een schrijversfamilie verwacht.
Voor mij hoeft Klaus Mann niet te bewijzen dat hij Thomas Mann niet is, ik heb immers nooit wat van Thomas Mann gelezen.
Zonder het nawoord te lezen zou je niet kunnen bevroeden dat hij er in 1949 zelf een eind aan maakte.
To be honest - it isn’t perfect at all but it is an autobiography and biographies in general should be not perfect but a picture of the person behind.
And it is a fantastic picture of adorable Klaus Mann, also of the time he lived in, an eventful, interesting and important time - 1910-1940’s.
It really made me think of the way I think about what I read and he made me feel like I have to read all this books he talks about and much more.
So, Klaus Mann was an interesting personality, having an interesting family and also interesting friends, living in an interesting time and finally, having so much interesting to tell.

Klaus Mann erzählt nicht nur aus seinem Leben, er zieht zugleich eine Bilanz der Zeit- und Kulturgeschichte des 20. Jahrhunderts. Ein bewegendes und spannendes Zeitdokument!
Del resto non vi è praticamente traccia di queste (oserei dire morbose) questioni nel libro di Klaus Mann, per cui non vedo perché dovrei stare a trattarle qui, anche perché se proprio vi interessano troverete un sacco di articoli in proposito.Come scrive il nipote Frido Mann nella postfazione, questa autobiografia si può dividere in tre parti che affrontano tre tematiche principali: l’infanzia e il rapporto con la sua famosa famiglia, la carriera di scrittore e infine l’impegno politico e militare contro il Terzo Reich.La prima parte dedicata all’infanzia e all’adolescenza è scritta in un registro ironico piacevolissimo da leggere.
amazing! what a interesting life...
One if not the best book I have ever read.
Klaus Mann, the novelist son of literary great Thomas Mann, was not yet 40 when he wrote this autobiography, but he had lived through some of the most tumultuous times in European and world history by then, including World War I, the period of wild inflation in Germany, the roaring twenties in both Europe and America (including Prohibition in the U.S.) the Great Depression, the rise of Hitler, and the beginning of World War II.
His great novel MEPHISTO reflects the rise of Nazism in Germany, but the candor of this memoir also reveals how shockingly the Germans allowed Hitler and his gangs to take over their country."Why and how did he manage to make people lose their minds?
This autobiography, written by the son of Thomas Mann, and a well known writer himself, is the fascinating portrait of a man who was at the heart of the cultural world of old Europe.
He depicts with great sensitivity and feeling an era, a country, an age that have now disappeared, and the result is achingly moving and beautiful.
I read this massive book a long time ago, in French, and loved feeling engulfed by Mann's evocative talent into another era, and following Klaus' destiny through the ups and downs of his country.
One of the great testimonies of intellectual life the first half of the XXth century.
I read this book for the first time when I was about fourteen years old, and it opened up the world for me ! A turning point in every sense ... I remember making little lists of reference, names of authors I wanted to explore ...One of the best autobiographies ever written.
A remarkable account of the fall of the Weimar Republic, the rise of Hitler and life of German anti-Nazi intellectuals in emigration during WW2.
A brilliant beautifully sad and yet hopeful memoir, full of famous literary figures, the rise of Hitler, and the life of a remarkable and tragic writer.
