https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43365.American_Slavery_American_Freedom
The importing of indentured white servants helped somewhat, but the colony still limped along in the first few decades.The original vision for the colony of Virginia was actually quite noble.
They were relying on a labor force that was abused, maligned, and denied socio-economic mobility or political participation.The solution (a gradual, semi-conscious development) was to switch to a black slave labor force, incorporate the white freemen into a more broadly based social elite, and build a wall of racism between whites and blacks.
White men came to have more political say, more socio-economic mobility (mostly through small land holdings further in Virginia), and a sense of superiority over the blacks.
From the very beginning the author makes us reconsider our assumptions: The natives of America, whom the Europeans called barbarians, are able to enjoy their lives with ease whereas most of the civilised Europeans will perish in the face of sickness, starvation and cold.
It will take a century for them to build an actually stable community in Virginia.The irony of this stable and civilised community will be that it rises on the shoulders of black slaves.
ABD'nin kurucu babaları sayılan 'özgürlükçü' George Washington ve Thomas Jefferson gibilerinin hepsi Virginialı, hepsi de köle sahibi efendiler."Bu nasıl olabiliyor," diye soruyor yazar, "bir çelişki mi?" Sonra da 150 yıla yayılan bir tarihi önümüze sererek Amerikan özgürlüğü ile Amerikan köleliliğinin nasıl iç içe büyüdüğünü anlatıyor.
The book is not a social history of slaves in colonial America, but rather an exploration of how the high ideals of freedom and liberty were allowed to coexist with oppression and slavery.
Morgan does this by examining the history of colonial Virginia's system of labor, economy, and social structure (Virginia being the most important slaveholding colony).There were two important factors (most striking to me) that lay at the root of the Virginians thinking on enforced labor.
As the ideals of republicanism became more popular in Virginia, the poor were considered the biggest threat to the promise of a free society.
While the book could be a work of inaccessibly dry scholarship, Mogan brings the inherent philosophical conflict of West Virginia to life in this well-crafted book.
American Slavery, American Freedom covers the history of Virginia from its founding past the establishment of the race-based slavery with copious primary source material.
Through the material, Morgan explores the inherent conflict between the Age of Reason ideal of freedom in a slave-based economy.
No other book I've encountered presents such a clear and illuminating narrative on the development of institutional racism while the leaders of the same society grandly tout ideals of "inalienable rights".
Morgan recounts the cultural, economic and political evolution of the 17th and early 18th century Virginia, and with it, makes comprehensible the reasons why racial slavery emerged as an integral component to the development of the white community’s pre-revolutionary ideals of independence and liberty.At the founding of the Jamestown colony in 1607, Virginia offered vast tracts of land available to anyone willing to make the trip and who could survive their first season (or two or three) in the New World.
I had expected this book to address in detail the role of slavery in colonial America, but to my surprise it presents by far the most lucid account I have read of the first 100 years of the Virginia colony.
The book suggests that increased life expectancy made the purchase of slaves less costly than indentured servants.
Finally, it makes the surprising assertion that the development of a permanent and degraded underclass, the slaves, leveled all other social strata, which led to a strong common bond and desire for independence among the whites.
This is the type of history book that is easy to read, and seamlessly mixes orignial sources into the narrative.
There is no doubt that Morgan carefully dissects a quintessential paradox within American history: the emergence of American freedom (namely white, male freedom) in the midst of slavery.
At times his treatment of Native Americans appears peripheral, and for a book so deeply entrenched in understanding the relationship between slavery and freedom there is not much talk of the former.
The chief characters in this narrative are white landed elites, yet from their perspectives one can glean a better understanding of how certain freedoms were constructed in the midst of slavery.
Well, clearly they are just rabble from the dregs of society who don't know how to show proper deference to their betters" "Our servants need a firm hand and the populace needs to be properly controlled and kept out of power because they can't handle the 'responsibility' of power since they arent wealthy landowners like us."I really do think that most of those planters probably believed such nonsense since everyone likes to think they are the hero of their own story and are a good person, and some people have to do some impressive mental jujitsu to get to that conclusion.The populace is discontented?
Ah, the ideals: “If all had gone as planned, Virginia should have presented an idyllic scene: tenants producing new commodities for the English market, enriching their sponsors while they laid up a nest egg for themselves, Indians learning English technology and religion in the bosom of the English settlement, the two races blending in a new community of good will.
We have some baser motives, of course, that accompany the land and wealth promised to the masses sent on ships for stints of indentured servitude: “although the hoped-for transformation was supposed to be morally uplifting to those who experienced it, the purpose was not merely charitable.
The unfortunate thing about these Native Americans is that they know the lay of the land.
And because Virginia’s labor force was composed mainly of slaves, who had been isolated by race and removed from the political equation, the remaining free laborers and tenant farmers were too few in number to constitute a serious threat to the superiority of the men who assured them of their equality.
Virginians could outdo English republicans as well as New England ones, partly because they had solved the problem: they had achieved a society in which most of the poor were enslaved.” (pg.
Racism made it possible for white Virginians to develop a devotion to the equality that English republicans had declared to be the soul of liberty.
The first thing I notice about a history book is how fast it reads, and this one ready pretty fast – I’m guessing some of that is because an average of 1/4 of each page was filled by citations/annotations – most of which I could skip – but even beyond that it was written in an accessible manner and moved through it pretty quickly as these things go.This book was basically a history of Virginia, with focus on the social and political constructs that paved the way for slavery.
You don’t get to the actual system of slavery until page 275/390ish so… yeah there’s a lot of other buildup.Even with the focus on Virginia, the book wasn’t as boring as I would have expected.
Morgan sets a grand goal for his work here: to examine the central paradox in American history, the fact that the rise of liberty somehow was tied together with the rise of slavery.
Morgan's main point here is that from the very start, this whole American experiment was centered on exploitation of labor.
So they eased the exploitation off the whites and onto the blacks, and solidified racial differences with new laws.
The really fascinating conclusion is that the whole liberty/slavery paradox isn't really a paradox, in fact, racism made American liberty possible.
The previous sections begin with the late 16th century, tracing Virginia's early development, with particular attention to the big landowners and the attitudes they developed toward small planters and the poor.
Racial attitudes developed while pushing natives off the land became instrumental in the emergence of the racialized slavery on which the big men relied for both economic and political advantage.
When the small planter emerged as a political force to be courted, their social betters needed a way to placate them.
In effect, to maintain a favorable social order, the poorest whites and smallest planters had to be placed on even footing with the elites.
At times this book seems to drone on and on and Morgan has a taste for the tangential. However, it makes for compelling reading. This a dark work of consensus history in which America’s racism and liberty are seen as both connected and long in the making. The darkness comes with Morgan’s assertion that freedom and slavery can exist together. This book represents a shift in American scholarship, away from sunny optimism and hopeful activism, and towards the idea that there is something inherently wrong with America, something that can be traced back to our very origins.
While I enjoyed reading this book and appreciated the way that Morgan directly addressed his methods and reasoning for some of his conclusions, I think my overall impression was hampered by the fact that I have about those conclusions in other places for so long. Thus, the main crux of the book did not feel new. Still, it is a fine example of historical writing and provided some very interesting details of early Virginia.
Very nimble and clear writing for such a book packed with data and narrative. The author argues that the experience of the Virgina colonies show the natural and inevitable rise in slavery as an American solution to a very real problem of labor shortages, excess capacity, and open markets.
This ranks as one of the non-fiction history books I wish I would've written. Truly foundational to the understanding of early American history, and relating the evolution of the two ends of the spectrum of freedom in a way that fully relates the uniqueness of the American experience.
Morgan, Edmund S. American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial Virginia. Francis Parkman Prize ed. New York: History Book Club, 2005. Edmund Morgan’s classic work was first published in 1975 and won the Society of American Historians’ prestigious Parkman Prize for the best book in American history in 1976. I bought the book a couple of years ago from the History Book Club which had produced hardcover reprints of many Parkman Prize winners from the past. I was still in graduate scho
Edmund Morgan’s classic work was first published in 1975 and won the Society of American Historians’ prestigious Parkman Prize for the best book in American history in 1976.
The fourth book told of the rise of slavery as indentured servitude disappeared, the evolution of racism in the English mind at the same time as populist politics brought small farmers into shared interests with large planters.
Morgan speeds through the last sixty years of colonial Virginia to reach a fantastic final chapter on the growth of republican ideals.
He claims there was never a single decision but rather over two centuries of events around the world which, piece by piece, helped to contribute to “the central paradox in American history.” (4)	Morgan’s explanation for the rise of slavery in Virginia can be broken down into three major arguments: a need for manual labor in the colony, a fear of rebellion by an idle lower class, and a desire for maximum profits by everyone involved, especially those already in the upper classes.
Fear of a rebellion by the lower class was also seen as a contributing factor to the rise of slavery.
Begun in earnest as a for-profit settlement of the Virginia Company, the colony was born as an almost stereotypical caricature of land barons exploiting indentured servants in virtual slavery conditions.
By turning the poorest class into slaves, Virginia achieved a unification among its white inhabitants -- a dedication to liberty and equality among peers -- that existed nowhere else.Most shockingly, Morgan suggests that U.S. values of liberty and equality, indeed the very birth of our nation, were not only linked to slavery but were dependent upon it.
And could the new United States have made a go of it in the world of nations without Virginia and without the products of slave labor?
Morgan's thesis is this:"Racism made it possible for white Virginians to develop a devotion to the equality that English republicans had declared to be the soul of liberty...[B]y lumping Indians, mulattoes, and Negroes in a single pariah class, Virginians had paved the way for a similar lumping of small and large planters into a single master class" (386).This statement is on the second to last page, and for the first 14 chapters, it's not clear where Morgan was going.
In addition, some of the same type of thinking from the Virginians are certainly present in today's political culture (like the problem of the poor, and our main solution right now - policing and incarceration).
Despite the term "slavery" being directly in the title, this book by Edmund Morgan spends very little time actually talking about it or the African slaves who were subjected to it.
In actuality, his book is more about distinctions between poor/rich Englishmen and colonial Virginia's geographical and political landscape.
While it was clear that Morgan meant to connect these ideas to how slavery came to be in the colony, there were only two chapters somewhere towards the end that were devoted to slavery itself and the following chapters again talked about politics and what all the rich white men in the colony were doing.
I picked up this book hoping to learn about the experience of poor whites and African slaves in the early years of the Virginia colony, and in particular the story behind Bacon's rebellion in 1676, a rebellion that included poor whites and slaves joining together to oppose the elitist rulers of the Virginia colony.
While overall, I felt the history was very limited in telling the "whole story", the book does give credence to Nancy Isenberg's basic thesis in White Trash that a class based perspective was part of the American colonial experience from the very beginning of the colonial period.
Morgan did an admirable job articulating the unique conditions that led to the rise of slavery.
There were two small rebellions in the mid 17th century led by poor former indentured servants, causing leaders to pursue policies that would result in fewer poor freedman, including developing explicitly racist policies (that did not exist in the first 50 or so years of the colony) to raise the status of poor whites and oppress non-whites.
When people started living longer, it made buying a slave for life, which was much more expensive than taking on an indentured servants for a set term, a much better"investment".
The book has a very misleading title; it seems to be more of a history of Virginia. The author seems to only use slavery as a way to push a narrative of how bad the early Englishmen of Virginia were (not only to slaves). I did enjoy the last 10 pages of the book immensely! Now that I have read the book I am glad did, but I do not think I would recommend it to anyone who wasn't interested in the foundation of Virginia
This was a well written history of slavery in America. I found that I was unaware of most of the information that was revealed in this book. I am now enlightened to many things that had simply never occurred to me before. I sincerely believe that this is a great book for anyone wanting to expand their knowledge of American History!
This is an excellent book. I think I got to page 200 without meeting a slave! Morgan really shows you the story of the indentured servant/free white landless worker. I was reading the AP Question about the origin and development of slavery (1607-1776). And it got me to thinking "What kind of alternative history could have developed a slave free American society by 1776?"
Morgan's book is a thorough examination of colonial Virginia and an outstanding analysis of the ways that slavery and racism evolved in response to the economic pressures of the colony. Tan-Nehisi Coates credits Morgan's book as changing the way he viewed the history of race/racism in America and I agree that this is an important book for understanding us today. 3.99 Martinie glasses
This uncovering of colonial Virginia is thorough beyond anything I could have conceived. I must say I stopped short on this book because it was just too much. If you are looking for a great explanation of the ingredients that cooked up slavery in this country, this book is priceless. But be ready for a slog through a detailed and extremely careful argument.
This book is now a little outdated as far as the history of Jamestown is concerned, but it inspired me to study the topic as my focus in graduate school. Great background on what led the English to desire a permanent settlement in the United States, and how Virginia is actually more typical of what America is today than those tiresome and singular pilgrims.
