https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534255.Autobiography_of_a_Face
How does one cope with a world that defines beauty as value when one is clearly damaged?
Beauty is a label that people lay across things that we want.
Grealy found success in the world as a writer, but carried the pain of her appearance and the world’s cruelty to her about it with her for the rest of her days.
It may not rank with great memoirs, but is an interesting, thoughtful and engaging one.PS - I learned, after reading Autobiography, that Grealy, who had become a successful poet and writer, had suffered an addiction to heroine following her last reconstructive surgery and died of an overdose at age 39.
I almost wish I hadn’t read it first; in that case, I wouldn’t have approached this book with deep sadness for what the future was to bring for Grealy.Grealy is a poet.
Trying to define why she was destined to her painful fate, and coping with her fear of never being loved, Grealy dissects loneliness and conformity until it’s an uncomfortable kernel.
I had tasted what it was like to feel loved, to feel whole, and I had liked that taste.
But fear kept insisting that I needed someone else’s longing to believe in that love.
I felt pain for this child who lived through cancer, and later the woman she had become which included strength of perseverance, and acceptance.
It could be said that the living with the deformity caused by the cancer and the surgeries were the hardest part.
"I spent five years of my life being treated for cancer, but since then I've spent fifteen years being treated for nothing other than looking different from everyone else.
As a child, Lucy often hid her face.
It was not the outward appearance of the mask that did this, but the confidence it provided a beautiful child whose self-identity had been shaped by her facial disfigurement.
I came away from reading the first book with a very skewed idea of what the relationship was like.
I didn't like Lucy Grealy at all--she came across as a self-involved neurotic who totally wasted her life and died of an accidental heroin overdose.
After reading Lucy's own account of her childhood cancer and all the hardships she endured because of her treatments, I think I have a much more balanced idea of what courage she actually displayed.
This book was written several years before she died so her life may have disintegrated toward the end, but I had to admire her courage and very unique perspective on her own life.
lucy grealy writes about her experience with a severely crippling childhood cancer which, besides putting her through years of chemo and radiation therapy with accompanying nausea, pain, terror, ill-being, baldness, and missed classes, also ended up the chopping off of a good chunk of her face.
grealy's deepest disability is emotional.since lucy grealy has a fabulous way with words and with feelings and sees really deep inside her pain, she depicts her cancer in the context of a family life marred by great emotional abstinence and isolation.
my review of this book has nothing to do with the reality of grealy's family, her siblings, her parents.
Hoping to find a more holistic view to other aspects of life in the aftermath of her childhood experience left me disappointed.
She spends the majority of this book in those early years and quickly wraps it up after college.
I’m a writer.” So we are left with the imaginative retelling of a woman’s self-obcession with beauty and lifelong belief in her unworthiness.
That imagination and her wonderful writing filled a void but would not be a path to healing and wholeness.
Read for my book club it received 3, 3.5, and 5 stars.
"Mommy, my heart hurts." Well, that sentence seems the perfect way to describe my feelings about this book.I discovered 'Autobiography of a Face' by Lucy Grealy at a used book store.
when I saw my face in the harsh fluorescent light of the fitting room… walking up to the mirror, reaching up to touch the right side, where the graft had been put in only a year before, I saw clearly that most of it had disappeared, melted away into nothing….".Although Lucy's struggles with identity continue throughout her memoir, she DOES manage to discover things in her life which bring her pleasure.
I spent most of the book so consumed by frustration for Lucy's mother and Lucy's own perceptions that I couldn't allow myself to feel anything else for her.
If you ever wanted to know which flavor of pudding to consume for a more pleasingly aesthetic vomit, this book will tell you.
Yes...lots of vomit talk, which goes back to my original point - it really could have been left out.The last thing I want to say is that I'm not so callous as to not feel sympathy for the things that Lucy had to deal with in her life.
This book tells the story of Lucy, who, after going through five years of harsh cancer treatments, had to have a section of her jaw removed. Not soon afterwards, she found rejection and humiliation from her classmates. Autobiography of a Face is a powerful, unforgettable novel about overcoming bullying and showing people who you truly are.
Grealy’s search for truth falls short for me, in part because I suspect that she was conflicted about her own truth at the time of the book's writing, but her search for beauty is a strong, well-developed theme.
But Grealy doesn’t take us through the formation of this important alienation that underpins the story.The flatness in the beginning is, I think, a problem of persona.
Ultimately, I hope my criticisms of Grealy will help me puzzle out my own problems as a writer--narrative distance, time and tense, and compensating for story with capital-V voice.
Autobiography of a Face chronicles Lucy Grealy's battle with the physical and psychological effects of Ewing's sarcoma, a cancer that robbed her of much of her jaw.
Grealy and author Ann Patchett (Bel Canto; Patron Saint of Liars) became friends in graduate school and remained friends until Grealy's death in 2002.
Her death was a drug overdose, but it remains unclear whether or not it was a suicide.
Patchett's book, Truth and Beauty: A Friendship, written after Grealy's death, is a must-read counterpoint to Autobiography of a Face.
by Patchett was the impetus for Truth and Beauty; Grealy's sister Suellen responds in a Guardian Unlimited article http://books.guardian.co.uk/departmen....
A friend sent me a recommendation at this book a few minutes ago. I read it when it first came out. I also highly recommend itTrue story - sad- beautiful.One of those stories one never forgets!
Lucy Grealy was a poet, essayist, and autobiographer. She was born in Dublin in 1963 and her family immigrated to Spring Valley, New York, when she was four years old. Her father worked in television. Lucy was a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College and received an MFA degree from the University of Iowa Creative Writing Program (the “Writer’s Workshop”).  The crucial experience in Lucy’s life happened at age nine, when as a result of a playground accident to her jaw, she was diagnosed with Ewing’s
But as reading Autobiography of a Face, we felt challenged to try to understand Lucy’s experiences not from a literary point of view, but as trained chaplains and spiritual care givers.
During the period that Lucy was in junior high school the chemo and radiation treatments were successful in eradicating the cancer, but the after effects left her with a mutilated face that was to be her curse for the rest of her life.
The surgery and chemo helped save her life but left her with disfiguring scars.
What if the face you saw in the mirror was one you could not bear to look at?
Grealy became a renowned poet, and her way with words shows here.
She writes so eloquently and honestly about what she went through and how she felt growing up “ugly.” She writes about being the “special” kid in a family of four, getting more of her parents’ attention, skipping school, good friends, how she dealt with bullies, and how she became addicted to the pain killers she was prescribed following major surgery.
TIP: To be read AFTER Ann Patchett’s Truth and Beauty.
This autobiography is very engaging and well written.
The author tells of her experience with cancer, but she states that while she spent only a certain amount of her youth being treated for cancer, she spent the rest of her life being treated for looking different than everyone else.
This is an exploration into a very interesting and intense individual far more than it is a documentary about the affects of cancer.
It is rich in language and raw in experience.
When paired with Truth and Beauty, I think the literary experience is amazing.
Be sure to read this one second.
she seems to have some demons, but has to be incredibly strong to go through everything she has gone through." (the book is a memoir about grealy's relationship with her face stemming from a diagnosis of earwig's sarcoma when she was nine years old.
grealy died of a drug overdose in her 30s, six years after this book was published.)in the afterword, pratchett suggests that the reader peruse this book at least a couple of times to inure herself against the drama of grealy's story, & to fully digest her power as a writer.
i certainly don't think anyone would regret reading this book.
Apparently I am not the only person who wondered, because Grealy was asked that very question at a book reading.
Her response was, I thought, very telling – “I didn’t remember it, I wrote it.” This isn’t a black-and-white retelling of events and strictly factual information; it is her musings, perceptions, and interpretations.
Ann’s book is remarkable in its own way and allows the reader a perception of Lucy from another’s viewpoint.
If you do read “Autobiography of a Face” and want to know more about Lucy Grealy, I recommend following it with the Patchett book.
I am interested in writing memoir or at least creative non-fiction so I was excited to read this book.
Her honesty is unflinching and totally politically incorrect at times.
There are times when we find her heartless--her lack of sorrow at her fathers death--which she herself admits as strange.
She also doesn't seem to understand what poverty is when she has health insurance and all these operations and her family can still afford to keep a horse, but for the most part I found her story very engrossing and not at all pitiful.
One does crave the rest of the story though and an understanding of her demise at 42 after living through cancer at 10.
A story that makes me cringe a little with guilt when I realize how good I have it yet how often I sometimes take my life for granted, my health for granted, my friends and family for granted...
Ms. Grealy opened my eyes up to another world where she had every right to let life beat her down yet she continued to find strength and confidence and continued to somehow pull herself back up, hold her head high and continue to face the unsurmountable challenges that each day delivered to her.
I was disappointed that Greely didn’t really discuss much of her adult life, but I was not completely surprised because Patchett describes Greely as having rushed to finish the book.
I would have liked to know about Greely as an adult.I was also skeptical about some of her details (and this probably comes form some pre-conceived notions about Greely’s tendency to re-write history that I got from Patchett).
Greely captures this well with her description of the cycles of chemotherapy: “This presented a curious reversal of fear for me, because I already understood that with other types of pain the fear of not knowing about it usually brought about more suffering than the thing itself.
About 20 years ago, I read an essay by Grealy in a book about women and their bodies.
(I can't figure out what that book was titled.) I was so impressed by her story that when Grealy's memoir was published, I read it immediately.
I found Grealy's story fascinating and very forthright.Then, I encountered Truth and Beauty by Ann Patchett.
I suspect our ability to deal with disability has not improved in all these years.I recommend the book to those concerned with self-image, to readers who want to know more about what it is like to be "other" and to anyone who reads memoirs.
I'm not 100% sure that Grealy was a strong enough writer to tell her important and interesting story as well as it might have been told.
Particularly in the final rather rushed quarter of the book, I felt she was phoning in the events and the emotional aspects were a bit less convincing.
Perhaps Grealy was more comfortable with her perspective on her childhood than her adulthood.In particular, the book seemed really devoid of fully realized people other than herself.
As seen in Truth & Beauty by Ann Patchett, Lucy Grealy is a selfish spoiled girl.
Her main concern in this book is not how to live with the disfigurement from cancer, but how to make people do things to make her happy.
The most interesting thing in the book was the mention of early drug abuse with painkillers from surgery and how she dismissed it as nothing important.
And I also noticed how she never mentioned Ann Patchett in this book.
If Ann was such a wonderful friend and the only person to understand Lucy, why did she not appear in this story?
Grealy's memoir describes her battle with bone cancer in adolescence, the removal of half her jaw, her two-and-a-half years of radiation/chemo treatments, the string of surgeries to "fix" her face that lasted into her adulthood as each successive reconstruction was absorbed back into her body, and her attempts to be a model patient and keep her family happy by never showing emotion during the ordeal.
Read this, then read Ann Patchett's Truth and Beauty, the story of Patchett's friendship with Grealy that continues the painful story after Autobiography of a Face ends and fills in backstory about Grealy's adult life and insecurities.
This book says a lot about how our society reacts to "ugliness." It is about a woman who had cancer as a young girl.
She says, "I spent five years of my life being treated for cancer, but since then I've spent fifteen years being treated for nothing other than looking different from everyone else.
It was the pain from that, from feeling ugly, that I always viewed as the great tragedy of my life.
The fact that I had cancer seemed minor in comparison."If you want to think more about how your opinion of people is affected by how they look, read this.
This book, beautifully written, made me so sad, especially given that its author died tragically not even ten years after it was published, and her gifts didn't get to be shared with readers through many more works.
I so wish that her dysfunctional parents had instilled and nurtured a deep-seated self-worth in Grealy, because it would have helped her cope with her peers' reactions to her and would have helped her come out of her endless reconstructive surgeries with hope that wasn't solely rooted in her appearance.
"Autobiography of a Face" is about a pleasant stroll through hell, as told by a sublimely intelligent, detached and observant child: Dante reincarnated as a nine year old girl.
But like "Inferno", like "Howl' (together with "Footnote to Howl") "Autobiography of a Face" gives its readers an opportunity to experience a transcendent joy: the joy that comes not only from the majestic, nuanced language and tale well told, but the joy that you get from reading tales of pure unadulterated courage, like Joshua Chamberlain's courage at the Battle of Little Round Top. This book has its critics, I know.
A beautifully written memoir about the late Grealy's struggle with childhood cancer leading to many, many reconstructive surgeries over 20 years. She tells her story with wit and perspective which seems improbable given what she went through. The treatments sound pretty primative now. I recommend resisting the urge to follow this up with Ann Patchett's about Grealy after she died. Patchett reveals a lot about Grealy and I wished I could have un-read these details and returned to the stronger, sw
A beautifully written memoir about the late Grealy's struggle with childhood cancer leading to many, many reconstructive surgeries over 20 years. She tells her story with wit and perspective which seems improbable given what she went through. The treatments sound pretty primative now. I recommend resisting the urge to follow this up with Ann Patchett's  about Grealy after she died. Patchett reveals a lot about Grealy and I wished I could have un-read these details and returned to the stronger, sweeter version of herself that Grealy creates.
I have no criticisms to offer. Beautiful on a sentence level. Insightful. Very often funny. I like how Grealy takes an ordinary kid -- herself -- and shows the rationalizations and mental gymnastics she goes through to accept herself after being rendered physically non-beautiful by disease. Shelve this next to The Fault in Our Stars as a book about what it's really like to be a kid whose life is stamped by illness.
I first learned of this book by reading Anne Patchett.I like an autobiography that feels as if I'm accompanying the author.Despite everything Lucy went through the anding was hopeful and uplifting.Lucy was also a poet and this was evident in her writing.
