https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25370837-the-lay-of-aotrou-and-itroun
I still have a whole rant about the way the Tolkien estate is putting out these books, padded out with excerpts from Tolkien’s drafts, and yet marketing them to a general rather than scholarly audience.
Where he edited his own work, which he did obsessively and meticulously, he rarely puts a foot wrong; in his drafts and rough copies there’s still a lot of beauty and interest.
But I’m also interested because this was inspired by a Breton lai, and attempts to keep some of the same atmosphere while dealing with the Breton folklore — though also creating something distinctly Tolkien’s own.I think it’s a fine piece of work — if you know what you’re going into.
I've been waiting for this title to cross the pond for a long time!
Now that I've read it from cover to cover, I must say it was worth the wait!
Tolkien serves up a dark faerie tale in the form of a Breton lay, a cautionary tale that reminds us that we should be careful what we wish for, because we just might get it, and the price tag might be too high.This book is a real treat for Tolkien fans because, in addition to the final, published edition of the poem, there are also previous versions of the tale, along with commentaries and a few facsimile pages of manuscripts and typescripts that Tolkien produced when he was developing the narrative.All in all, a very good read, with a strong medieval flavor, which I like very much.
This was a Christmas gift from the family to help flesh out my Tolkien shelf, and I must say that it did more than that.
It gave me a very enjoyable read.
Put together with a few different versions of the poem it also contains three more that he did of similar subject matter that led up to this one.
This is not a book based in his Middle-Earth mythology, but stories taking place in a more medieval time and based on stories coming from that time period.
And if your wondering who Aotrou and Itroun are, they are just Old English titles for Lord and Lady.
I like the book, but I didn't love it.Interesting to see the earlier works of Tolkien and how he came about some of his other stories. I would suggest it if you want to learn more about Tolkien's writings.
I haven't read good, dark poetry in a while and this was a great place to jump back in.
Nice short story. Nice alliteration, and rhymes.Plot is simple, and standard. I think the prose is the important part more so then the plot.
It has been a long time since I have read Tolkien! I enjoyed the poem and learning more about Tolkien's writing process.
Read the newest edition of this. It was only okay. I dunno why they needed to release this with a bunch of fluff at the beginning and end, guess for money. Tolkien's stuff was good though.
A fine quick read for Tolkien completists or those with an obsessive fixation on medieval poetry. Not much good for anyone else...
This was definitely an interesting study of how J R. R. Tolkein wrote, but I've never been one for poetry, so to me, the content was a bit dry, even if it was fascinating to see part of the creative process. An excellent choice for those who are curious, or just want to see how things evolve, but if you don't care about such things, this book may not be for you.
Masterfully written in the tradition of the lay and containing some lines of great beauty. The reason why I did not love it, though, is the rather simple structure and rhyme-scheme that somehow bugged me as well as the lack of depth in the tale itself.
Interesting early old-English style poetry from Tolkien. Tale was simple enough, and the treatment of the material entertaining. Makes you wonder how an epic-length poem in that or the Anglo-Saxon alliterative style would have turned out.
