https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/505064.Phule_s_Company
WIllard Phule is the heir to a super-rich munitions company, and also an officer in the Legion.
They can't court-martial him, so instead they try to get him to quit by shipping him off to a remote swamp planet to command a company of losers.
But Phule is far too entrepreneurial and positive-minded to let that get him down.This is yard sale sci-fi.
By that I mean you'd really never give this a look except for 50 cents at a yard sale.
But it's good yard sale sci-fi: it's positive, well written, with good characters and a gentle spirit to it.
Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
The plot is a futuristic military unit of misfits and the officer who tries to whip them into shape.
The pacing was good and the story moved along well.
However, my reservations are these: 1) the plot device of the officer's butler introducing the chapters was unnecessary; the POV could have been third-party and just as good, and 2) the constant use of wealth to solve problems was a cop out.
He never had a problem he couldn't buy his way out of.
There are a lot of characters in this story and the group was multinational (and multi-species), and most of the voices were quite distinct.
I started reading Aspin's fantasy comedy series and was surprised to find he had branched out into SiFi. I wasn't disappointed in the least. Still a laugh all the way through the book no matter what area he writes in. Highly recommended
Fun from start to finish! Great idea well executed. If you want hardcore sci fi look somewhere else, but if you have a sense of humor, this is the place.
Though well written, I didn't enjoy it all that much.I read this because I'm researching the Mil SF humor sub-genre.
Coming to this book with my own set of expectations, Asprin's treatment was shockingly different.
All of which I can forgive except for one thing: it's not that funny!But...this book was supposed to be humorous.
The MC is probably the biggest problem.
Willard Phule comes off as fool in the first few pages, but as you read on, it's anything but that.
However, it's positioned as a Mil SF COMEDY.To some things up, this book does not have the right setup for true comedy, but is a very well written.
Был уверен, что никогда к нему и не вернусь, но выпавшая в книжную рулетку “Шутовская рота” оказалась произведением почти бесконечной кавайности.
Вещь простецкая, жанр – сатира с приставкой “милитари”.
Проштрафившись во время очередной военной кампании, Шьют оказывается переведен с повышением на провинциальную шахтерскую планету командиром местной охранной роты “Омега”.
“Омега” – место, куда ссылают всех неудачников и штрафников, но Шьют никогда не теряет веры в себя и в человечество.
Шьют уверен - бесталанных людей не существует, просто не всегда удается найти путь к сердцу человека, где скрываются его истинные способности.
Вещь, повторюсь, простецкая, но очень заразительная и светлая.
I read the book in '90 when it first came out, thought I liked it, put it down, and didn't read anything else in the series.
Capatin Phule is a young multimillionairei who joined hte Space Legion for a variety of reasons; he has irritated the brass and has been put in charge of an Omega company stationed on Haskins planet.
Phule comes along and turns the Omega Company into the crack unit in the Legion, and makes it on par with the crack special forces units in the ohter branches of the services.
HIs methods are, um, unconventional and occassionally felonious--a book that's funnd and in good fun both.
I LOVE this book and think everyone should read it.
And you'll probably never read about a better way to run the "confidence course".The premise is The Legion is punishing an extremely wealthy officer (Phule) and basically wants him to quit so they assign him command of an Omega Company (the dregs of the dregs).
This is sci-fi, but you won't really notice as it is about the characters, not the setting.This is the first in the series and while the second is pretty good and the third is ok, don't read past that point or you will be greatly disappointed in horrible ways they changed the characters basic personalities.On every re-read I love this book even more!
Willard Phule, in disgrace from screwing up a major command, is punished by being sent to play captain to the worst bunch of misfits in the Space Legion.
What his superiors don't realize is that Phule has a knack for seeing the strengths in even the strangest of outcasts.
With a little help from his trusted butler Beeker, and his vast fortune at his fingertips, Phule is able to turn the dregs of the Omega Company into a fighting force that few can stand against - but can he do it in time to stop the latest alien threat?
What happens if you put all your misfits in one place and then send a rich, over achieving misfit to take charge? The Universe may never be the same. When you have a book that starts out with a Courts Martial proceeding, you know it isn't going to be your run of the mill sci fi story. Humor and hijinx fly in this well written and wonderfully easy to read book. Best of all almost no puns. If you get the chance take a gamble and give it a read.
An old favourite from back in the day when I was much much younger. It hasn't exactly aged well, but it's still as fun as I remember from when I was a teenager. The story and writing are fine, regardless of time period, but there are definitely a few references here and there that were worthy of side-eye.
Very entertaining, a great series for sure. I love the intrigue, all the different interesting and eccentric characters. The creative ways situations are solved and dealt with. I loved Asprin's "Myth" series, and this one measures up for sure.
i think i may have tried to read this author before, I'll try again however because he looks funny and I need to recommend something to eric. even though he doesnt like Sci fi so much
Police Academy in space. Super fun and readable.
Поэтому, решил пока остановиться на «Шуттовской роте» и как подношение моей ностальгии - прочитать только несколько циклов про мультимиллиардера и его роту.Почему только её?
И вот в этой книге Асприн как будто взял все наработки этого жанра и перенес действие в фантастический мир.Хотя, говоря откровенно - не совсем это и фантастический мир.
В ней есть все, что мне нравится в хорошей истории.
Вполне укладывается в пару часов чтения.Ну и чтобы закрыть историю моего взаимоотношения с циклом, хочу сказать что где-то уже на третьей книге, которую я прочитал гораздо позже, я почувствовал, что цикл начинает скатываться.
Как будто, автору уже нечего было говорить про эту прекрасную роту.
From the description, I was expecting an overly comedic story about a band of misfits that form a military unit in the future.
When I started reading it, my expectations turned to Police Academy or Stripes.
Phule dives into his assignment and sets about turning this company around with corporate techniques are often subject to satire by current movies and variety show skits.The difference is that Aspirin puts real thought into their use and has credible reasons for the techniques he employs.If this novel lacks anything, it is the presence of a real antagonistic organization or enemy.

it is a quite introductory novel to the Omega Company (similar to the movies Stripes and more close to Jerry Lewis' Which Way's The Front which share many similitudes), but there are many misleads in the cover of the book with respect to the story itself.
I will try the next book in the series.Es una historia introductoria a la compañía Omega (algo así como El Pelotón Chiflado - Stripes o Donde esta el frente de Jerry Lewis) pero los resúmenes de la cubierta del libro son engañosas y ciertamente no se ajustan a la historia.
I liked this book as much or better than the MYTH series.
Asprin has a good grasp of humor and I marvel at his ability to absolutely nail logistics in his writing.
I wish the guy was still with us, still writing, and I hate that I only found his books after his death.
I do really appreciate the different flavor of his writing style.
It is a welcome change from some of the heavier, slower authors in the genre.Also, Asprin is just fun.
What a great idea for a book/series.
Wish I'd thought of it.
MISERABLY boring!!! And racist, too! This was like a typical '80's sci-fi that was a throwback to the boringness and racism of the '50's. (Ex: Every character was named after his or her main physical characteristic, like "Chocolate Harry," the char. of African descent. There were more offensive ones, like char. called thieves and strongly characterized according to certain nationalities. You know how racists are really specific? Like, Asians are "intelligent/trickster" thieves and Puerto Ricans are "robber/sneak" thieves? If you don't know what I'm talking about, ask your relatives over the age of 80. Or read this book. What fun!!!)
I, being the fan of the author’s Myth series, hoped to discover in Phule’s Company something equally worthy. However, to my disappointment this one proved something very different and frustratingly so. No, there are loads of funny stuff characteristic to Robert Asprin’s style and everything… Everything except intriguing plot... Pretty dull narrative about some fantastic military routine, minor mishaps and guide how to turn a bunch of losers into highly efficient military unit, this book is all about.
I first read Phule's Company in the 1990s. It was early enough that I do not believe the second book in the series had been written. Recently, I saw the title and told my 18-year-old son that it was a fun book (that was how I remembered it). He read it. Shared it with his sister, who read it. So I felt compelled to re-read it. On a flight to San Antonio, I picked you Phule's Company and was entertained for the entire flight. The plot is simple. The characters an colorful and likeable. The protagonist is clever.
A quick, fun read. It definitely feels like an Asprin book, so if you usually don't enjoy his stuff, give it a pass. The premise is fun and it doesn't get bogged down into inessential details. While it hangs together as a whole story, it often feels like a series of vignette's, which I mostly put down to the narrative structure (journal entries). Also I love that it's from the butler's point of view.
This is a light read and totally predictable. But it was fun. In the far future a mega-rich young officer gets sent to lead the worst military unit in the galaxy. And he turns them in his own high quality band of misfits. There really isn't anything else to the story. The technology isn't realistic at all (pretty much 1990's tech in space) and the characters are well-written but are pretty much archetypes. But I liked it and I'll read the second in the series.
I came back to audible after finishing the book to find any other in the series to buy but unfortunately there isn't any more yet. I guess I'll have to wait. I loved the book, I was rapt in in the whole time. Too short for how good it was. I can't wait for the next one. I always like that kind of character, who is full of wit and act decisively in any situation.
I loved Asprin’s other series, the Myth series, so I thought I’d give this series a try. It focuses on the ways a space captain gets out of trouble using his smarts. It was ok. I just didn’t love the characters like I did with the Myth series. It also felt a bit repetitive- captain gets into trouble, but he always has a plan to solve the issue. Eh.
This is another fun romp by Robert Lynn Asprin. It's different from the Myth series but equally enjoyable. Phule is assigned to the worst company of Legionnaires on a planet that is not a great place to be. He turns the company around and even helps to prevent a potential war and is punished for it. All in all a good easy read that can take you away from the hustle and bustle of life.
Great light read with a rather simple storyExcellent writing, rich character development, and a simple light story that was a delight to read. I strongly recommend this for anyone looking for a fun quick book
Loved it!Read this many years ago and have since lost the paperback books. Was thrilled to find the kindle version! Loved reading this the second time and am looking forward to rereading the entire series all over again!
