https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25059.Brightness_Reef
Humans are a bit more complex and have their own reasons to buck this trend with their books and their skepticism of the galactic culture that either doesn't want to be bothered to help the upstarts, but that's a sub-plot.)I have no problem with the concept.
My problem is that I am judging it by his other brilliant Uplift novels instead of just focusing on what it does right.
And it does a lot of things very right.Of course, it's also book one of a trilogy that really needs to be read together if you want any sense of closure, too, so there's that.
Uplift is more than just panspermia, because Brin has taken the idea of aliens genetically engineering pre-sapient life to full sapience and wrapped his own entire mythos around the concept.
It's very different from what we know, which is not surprising: in the Uplift series, humans are "wolflings." Either our patrons abandoned us long ago, or we developed sentience all by ourselves.
Like the series premise of Uplift, Brightness Reef opens with high stakes, immediately establishing what these people fear and how it can all go wrong for them.So when it does, it's no surprise.
Six sentient species live together secretly in hard-won harmony on the planet Jijo, which the almighty Galactics have decreed to be left unsettled.
All goes well until their discovery by a starship crewed by humans with a mysterious purpose throws everything into chaos and uncertainty.David Brin is telling a big story here.
As Brin himself acknowledges in his afterword, his story just kept expanding in the telling until it could no longer be contained within a single volume.
Therefore, I do recommend this book, but only if you are prepared to go on and read the next two in the trilogy as well.
Recently I marathoned through the initial trilogy again and was pleased to discover there were three more books in the series since then.The Uplift books are a great mix of adventure, world-building, and scientific speculation, and the alien races portrayed in these books are especially great.
"Brightness Reef" took me a little longer to get into compared to the earlier books because of its broad scope (lots of storylines and characters to keep track of).
"Brightness Reef" is *mostly* a stand-alone story, but there are a lot of details in this later trilogy that will be more satisfying if you're familiar with what's come before.
Brin appears to have stopped when his publisher said, Enough!Other than the beginning and the ending, this was Brin's best Uplift book.
This doesn't make sense in terms of the world Brin has created: even if humans followed the Sacred Scrolls fully, burned all books, and used only handmade tools, they would either a) die out or b) progress differently or more slowly.
Brin's glib rationale and his search for interesting twists, however, undermined the concept despite it being central to understanding his world for most of the book (hide spoiler)]It is impressing to think of the author beginning with a blank page before him and resulting with something so wildly creative.
Lots of good talking points in this return to Brin's Uplift universe: interrogating ideas of humanity and sapience, cultural imperialism, and feminist commentary. But it's just so damn long and unwieldy!
To this day these three books remain my favorite Brin novels.Not only is David Brin an absolute master of Hard Science Fiction, his work is a good antidote to the pile of young-adult-inspired-barely-feasible-dystopias that are currently flooding the market and trying to coattail on the success of the Hunger Games.
Most science fictions falls into one of two traps when creating alien species.
Brin actually imagines complicated, nuanced, foreign, not-even-slightly-human aliens.
David Brin is an author that asks more of his readers than many science fiction and fantasy authors do today, and certainly more than Hollywood does.
Having such a goal akin to sacred seems the only way to have it happen, and yet it still strikes me as unsatisfying and difficult to maintain.
The need for progress, for impact, for something important to result, if not from one individually, then from one's collective group seems a strong urge to me.
I frequently run into this problem - why progress?
What progress?
And so to have an explicitly anti-progress goal draws out these unsupported and potentially meaningless drives for meaning.
I can summarize:1) There are various aliens who have come into illegal exile together for various reasons.
Their motivations are slowly revealed.2) Their plan is to devolve into pre-sentient lifeforms.
But devolving from one is fine.
Doing what, who knows.4) There are other aliens that come.
You'd think that after 650 pages this would be evident.Ugh. I hated the fact that I read 650 pages about a insignificant world only to have to read another 1000 pages to finish the story.
Why does Brin focus on these backwater worlds with their unimportant inhabitants when he's got a huge universe out there to explore?
I find it hard to imagine people taking species responsibility over the course of thousands of years.
It is hard to get most people who study a specific thing - to agree what happened 100 years ago.
So to think we or any like species would carry any guilt for thousands of years seems unlikely.For this particular book I felt myself getting interested here and there, then the scene shifted and I lost interest.
Still, all my comments are harsher than I feel about it, it wasnt unreadable, it just doesnt spark my imagination like some other things I have read.
These are getting better, though the author still has some writing quirks that annoy me.
These last three Uplift books are apparently all one long story.
Some of the storylines and characters are quite captivating, like that of Rety and of the Stranger.
Others like Alvin, Huck and friends, I wish to get through quickly and move on.
And overall he's getting a bit better at storytelling.
It's not as jumpy and awkward as it was in the earlier books.
Again the book is packed with clever inventive details about all the different species and their technology and societies.
I've started the next book now.
This was a hard one to muddle through--it wasn't until I realized that this trilogy is contemporary to the events of the Uplift Trilogy that I started to get interested.Brin is experimenting with perspective--from the alien Asx to the Stranger who has lost all language when introducted to Alvin, the young hoon who tells his story in a first person journal style.Of course, since it's Brin, the intrigue is thick.Gone are the weird time passage "burps" from earlier books.
Everything seems to flow naturally.The big questions:1.
Did humanity 'bootstrap' themselves to sentience?2.
What the FUCK is up with the noors?
This is a good book.the 6 different species on the planet Jijo are well created and interesting. There was lucklily a picture at the end of the book and after looking at that I understood the shape and parts of the different types of aliens there. There is also an interesting idea of 'Patron' species. In other words a species that takes another fledgling group and begins to uplift them. Genetically changing them slowly as well as teaching them things to make them into the next star-faring species.
Būna serijų, kur nuotykis išsenka rašytojui besistengiant išsunkti paskutinius lašelius iš sugalvoto pasaulio. Būna, kad nebetiki pritemptu veiksmu. Būna ir, kad fantazija peržengia logikos ribas stengdamasi atrasti kažką, kuo dar mus nustebinti. Ši Uplift saga turi kitą bėdą. Autoriaus fantazija neturi ribų, ji išradinga ir išmani. Bet veiksmo linijų tiek daug ir jos tokios susipynusios, kad aš jau noriu pailsėt nuo šio gausybės rago ir imu pauzę. #Recom #LEBooks
Come al solito, Brin sviluppa una serie concatenata di filoni narrativi, nell'ambito del suo variegato universo, con la sua ottima prosa. A differenza dei primi tre romanzi del Ciclo delle Cinque Galassie, questo libro non ha una conclusione, affidandola ai successivi altri due libri della trilogia di Jijo. Non semplice da seguire.
So, I've gone back and started listening to one of my favorite series of books by David Brin called the Uplift Trilogy.
The author Brin has a lot of commentary about how one language is better for certain concepts compared to another, and how each race interacts with them to cross-communicate.
Moreover, on the page he was forced to resort to pairing certain languages in specific ways, almost like a haiku for "Trinary" for instance.
And, as a final side note, I'm sorry to say that I've personally had several interactions with the author David Brin...
Humanity, having already raised Chimps and Dolphins to sentience stumble out into the galaxy at large without a patron race, making them rare "wolflings" generally doomed for extinction lacking protection in what is often a dangerous and violent galactic society.The majority of the trilogy is set on a Sooner colony called Jijo, where half a dozen outcast races live together striving to return to "blessed presentience" avoiding larger galactic society.
The differences between the collective cultures of the mixed races of Jijo and the interactions of the parent races out in the Five Galaxies form a large part of the subtext.
Our reactions of solidarity, of horror, of hatred, and of humanism to each other and to all the current life on our planet are recognizable in this story of the "five galaxies", uplift of diverse species to sentience, and how each of us from our inherently conservatizing worldviews intersect with "difference".
Our ability to overcome our distrust and fears about how different others are and how we can become a unified people, planet, and eventually all sentients and non-sentients in our universe is the essential thrust of what Brin brings to his work.
Well done start to a new Uplift trilogy. I was wondering what was going to distinguish this one from the others (which all seemed to be somewhat self-contained stories), and it turns out that these next three books all follow roughly the same story. One thing to be warned about, though, is that while this book seems mostly self-contained, it's probably worth reading the earlier Uplift books, particularly the latter two,  Startide Rising  and  The Uplift War .As for the composition, this is an en
I was wondering what was going to distinguish this one from the others (which all seemed to be somewhat self-contained stories), and it turns out that these next three books all follow roughly the same story.
One thing to be warned about, though, is that while this book seems mostly self-contained, it's probably worth reading the earlier Uplift books, particularly the latter two, 
.As for the composition, this is an ensemble book done right - there are a good number of characters, but not too many, and the story is paced well.
(which I read recently), which is a dramatic example of the common pitfalls of these ensemble books (insane number of characters, terrible pacing, etc).
This book is really *slow*, like the one in the anecdote where nothing happens for three hundred pages and then someone else's aunt dies?
Yes, that kind of book, except here it was like *five* hundred pages.Overall this book tells a story that could have been condensed down to two hundred pages and not lose much if anything, but takes almost seven hundred pages to do it.
I liked the original Uplift trilogy very much, but I don't think I will be reading the other two books in this one.
Usually I read a book this long in three weeks or less, but I thought this one would never end, and more than once thought about just giving up on it.
The new Uplift trilogy continues the adventures of the crew of Streaker, though they don't figure much in the first volume. It takes place on the distant planet Jijo, where members of several different Galactic races (including humans) have colonized illegally. These "sooners" live in constant fear of discovery by Galactic authorities. It's a great story but you keep wondering when the Streaker is going to make an appearance.
Lonely planet left for recuperation for next settlers is actually occupied by 6 different races of refugee aliens including humans. Every faction has secrets and ambitions, but till now they manage to live together in peace. After starship arrives everything changes. And to mix it all up strange man who cannot speak and do not remember his past is rescued at sea.Caution! This book is intended as only part of trilogy as it leaves many questions unanswered, so be prepared and forewarned :)
Brin is an excellent writer, no matter that his cosmology and worldview is upwhacked. In particular, the Uplift series of books are especially inventive and entertaining.
This trilogy is a continuous storyline spanning three novels, and indeed serves as a sequel to the events of both Startide Rising and The Uplift War, though this does not become more apparent until the fifth and sixth books.Brightness Reef was published nine years after The Uplift War and it's clear that Brin has become a stronger writer in the interim.
But that’s a good thing; one of the strengths of science fiction is that it can be used to explore uncomfortable themes without the associated cultural baggage.The Uplift series explores race and racism without obvious reference to the terrible history of the first half of the 20th century.
He can look at the core principles of race and racism and explore their core characteristics, exposing the unavoidable genocidal characteristic underlying the attitude, without invoking the clouds of violent passion caused by recent and contemporary world history.
Race is at the core of the culture of the five galaxies.One thing that isn’t explored is the difference between race and nation, something particularly relevent in our contemporary world.
It is filled with nonsense words, but if you carefully track the context clues it makes some degree of sense.
It is beautiful to roll off the tongue, but a slight strain to the brain as you try to make sense of it.So too is Brightness Reef.
It was fun to read about non-bipedal aliens.
It was fun to have the story told with their own vocabulary.
These wonderful jabberwocky-esque words also had a beautiful roll to them.
However, they too had the accompanying brain strain.
It is enough to have to read slowly, I don't need the revelation to be significantly delayed as well.
The depth and richness of detail in this book is both its saving grace and its downfall.
The environment, species, and cultures of Jijo feel absolutely believable, but the experience of getting to know them so intimately is like moving to a different planet and having to familiarize yourself with it in REAL TIME.
I feel like I just spent several weeks with a bad case of culture shock.
Up until literally the last word of the book, you are left wondering if Brightness Reef actually has anything to do with the other uplift novels at all.All that said, I do like this book.
As with each book in the preceding trilogy, the fourth installment continues the overall story of 'wolfling' humans, dolphins and chimps struggling against greater powers in the five galaxies.
And as with the other books, it once again is most successful in introducing another new central group of characters.
This time, rebel/outcast groups of some of the greater and fallen galactic powers are working together, on what should be a fallow planet, when they are visited by other, not to be trusted, alien spacecraft.
The story builds towards a climax but, then, disappointingly, the author bucks his earlier, admirable trend of making every story self-contained, and lets everything drift into the subsequent Book 5.
I honestly have to say I found this book hard to read and tiresome in the extreme.
I try always to finish any book I start, so I persevered to the end, and was left wondering what the heck it was all about.The basic story is about six refugee alien species hiding on a forbidden planet in fear of being discovered by the galactic superpowers from whom they fled in the first place.
Two of the aliens did not, in my view.Also, the book is so full of padding, and unrelated side stories it becomes tedious, and the vast amount of made-up words and names leaves the reader a little stunned, to say the least.I will not buy this author again.
David Brin is a champion world-builder of the first order and his entire Uplift series is one of the most unique and original SF ideas I've ever read.
Humanity's distinction in these books as a "wolfling" race that dared to engineer it's own evolution is provocative and casts Earth in the position of outsider and rebel both in galactic politics, living under a constant Sword of Damocles that could destroy life on Earth at any moment.
The stories are tightly plotted and very intense and deal with real-world questions about wisdom and knowledge, the morality of genetic experimentation and just what it means to be human in the first place.
Start at the beginning with Sundiver, but read them all!
