https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/224038.Genghis_Khan
4.0 stars. I got this book as part of my Easton Press "Library of Military History" and had only a general knowledge of who Genghis Khan was. I found this story fascinating and well-written and enjoyed the way the author gave a fairly complete, well-rounded description of Genghis from his early years through his creation of one of the most terrifying military forces of ancient history. When I finished the book, I felt I had a much better understanding of this famous military leader which is what you hope for from a book like this. Recommended!!!
১০০ পৃষঠার পর আর টানবার পারলাম না। ভালো একটা বইয়ের ভালো একটা অনুবাদ আশা করছিলাম। একটু এডিটিং করলে অনুবাদটা আরেকটু ভালো হইতে পারত। কি আর করা, চেঙগিসের কপাল ফাটা। পরে যদি কোন এক সময় ধৈরয ধরতে পারি তাইলে বযাক করুম।
১০০ পৃষ্ঠার পর আর টানবার পারলাম না। ভালো একটা বইয়ের ভালো একটা অনুবাদ আশা করছিলাম। একটু এডিটিং করলে অনুবাদটা আরেকটু ভালো হইতে পারত। কি আর করা, চেঙ্গিসের কপাল ফাটা। পরে যদি কোন এক সময় ধৈর্য ধরতে পারি তাইলে ব্যাক করুম।
The best book written about Genghis Khan I've read thus far.
Harold Lamb was fascinated by the people and history of Asia which greatly influenced his fictional short stories, many featuring Cossacks or Mongols as heroes.
His fascination just as greatly influenced his string of popular nonfiction histories, of which Genghis Khan was the first, written in 1927.
The resources list in the back is extremely impressive, as are Lamb's notes about them.Lamb expressed dismay that modern historians of his time tended to forget that all historical mentions of Genghis Kahn were written by his enemies.
I like Lamb's style because the book reads more like a novel or chronicle than a biography.
The accounts of the Mongols' battles are suspenseful and gripping.
I mostly enjoyed this book, though, because I didn't know anything about the Mongols and their first leader, Genghis Khan.
I enjoyed learning about the ancient Chinese and their great empire as well as the Persians and Turks and other "Eastern" ethnic groups.
I also like the fact that Lamb defends Genghis Khan's seemingly murderous personality by actually explaining it and rejecting the second and third hand accounts of the Khan's enemies.
Overall, this is a fascinating read!
First he [meaning Ghengis Khan] questioned them closely about their religion, and commented gravely that it was a mistake to make the pilgrimage to Mecca. "For the power of Heaven is not in one place alone, but in every corner of the earth."  This is my first History Book That I've Read Voluntarily. I wouldn’t say that I don't like history nor that I don’t find it interesting but I've always been quite cautious with real history books. That's due to my high school history teacher who traumatize
This is my first History Book That I've Read Voluntarily.
Yes, I started "Genghis Khan.
The Emperor of All Men" was a book that showed me that history, too, can be more unconventional.
Yes, he was a Mongol and probably he went to war a lot because here's a saying that pretty big percentage of the world population is related to Genghis Khan in some way.
It's written pretty decently (at least, the translated edition that I read was) although, some sentences needed more historical background than I managed to look up.But I found myself yearning a bit more humanity.
This is a very short and easy read on the warlord. It is not very scholarly and perhaps has some errors; but the basic storyline is accurate.
Harold Lamb, konar-göçer hayatı güzel aktarıyor. Ayrıca diğer kitaplarındaki gibi burada da biyografik tasvirlerde başarılı..
যায়নুদদীন সানীর দু'শ পৃষঠার এই অনুবাদ(?)এর বযকতিগত রেটিঙ ২।কথাশিলপী ও ঐতিহাসিক হযারলড লযামবের মূল বইটি কেমন জানিনা। তবে যায়নুদদীন সানীর এই অনুবাদ পড়তে গিয়ে বেশ খাটনি গেছে। জনাব অনুবাদকের নিশচয়ই লযামব সাহেব নতুবা সবয়ং চেঙগিস খানের সাথে বিরাট ঝগড়াঝাটি রয়েছে। নাহলে এহেন অনুবাদ করার কোনো যুকতি খুঁজে পাচছি না।মূল বইটিও যদি এমন সামঞজসযহীন কাঠখোটটা হতে পারে।কিনতু দকষ অনুবাদকের গুণে তা পাঠযোগয বনে যায়। চেঙগিস কে লোকে ঈশবরপরেরিত অভিশাপ ভাবতো, যায়নুদদীন সানীর নিরঘাত চেঙগিসের অনুবাদক ভারসন। তাঁর অনূদিত এ গ

Also, I'd heard a rumour about the Mongols that I couldn't seem to verify on a quick Google search, one of those by-the-way massacres that's mindboggling in and of itself, but hardly noteworthy as one more massacre amongst the many campaigns, and I hoped that I might stumble across the truth of this particular siege in yet another biography.The story goes that a particular city (unnamed as the story was related to me) in the Islamic world was besieged by the Mongols, trounced, and every man, woman, child and beast within put to the sword.
Moreover, every building was to be demolished, and, moreover still, the Mongols went north and damned and rerouted the river (also unnamed as the story was related to me) as to wipe the city from the face of the Earth forever.
I give this book a 5 because it was the first bookI ever read about Genghis Khan and Central Asia when I was 11. It was written in 1927 and is a "Histography" book based on The Secret History. But, for me it is a great book.
Among the piles of stuff (inclusive of a 1908 edition of Chicago's Daily News headlined with the 'discovery' of the North Pole) were many books, mostly bestsellers of the past or self-help books--few of any interest to me.
I've never read of the Khan before, except from the perspective of those he fought.Written in the twenties by a novelist-historian, the style is a bit floridly reminiscent of Edgar Rice Burroughs.
The Mongols, not known for their literacy, left no written materials, so author Lamb makes do with external sources, coming up with a plausible, but unconvincing, biography.
though no real written records of Genghis Khan was ever made, just notes from observors from foreign lands. the story of the khan is an amazing story of a man wanting to unify all his people. his compassion, insite, determination and fortitude is astounding and his short comings as well. this one is an amazing book.
Yazarın, kendi yaratıcılığını fazlasıyla ortaya koyması, okuyucuyu Cengiz Han'ın bir hayal kahramanı olduğu fikrine sürüklüyor. Diğer yandan olay örgüsü hatasız ve okumu kolay. Basit de diyebilirim. Özetle, Cengiz Han'a ilgisi olanların, diğer inceleme kitaplarıyla birlikte, her ne olursa olsun bir güzel okuyabileceği bir kitap.
There isn't much that is written about this man; a legend in his own right. This book expressed a pretty wealthy load of interesting information, for a short one, about The Great Khan and his legacy in the making; passing through his children and etc...
Although this edition is likely quite dated, it was extremely well written and enjoyable to read. It is not loaded with cumbersome details and makes for a good beginner book on the subject. More recent books, however, would likely give a better list of sources for those looking for more detail.
I did enjoy this book for its informative value. Though it was not as impartial as I would have preferred in a historical account it was worth the time if one cares to know more of this enigmatic figure...
Having so little knowledge of Genghis Khan I enjoyed learning about his life, society, and escapades. But I was somehow left wanting more, I think because the author freely admitted he glossed over or omitted details covered elsewhere.
A good historical story about Ghengis Khan without getting lost in the weeds. I had finished Dan Carlin's Hardcore History podcast about the Khan's (highly recommended if you like history BTW) which was more in depth and filled in some of the background goings on. I enjoyed this book.
history in story, I like Lamb's well written and attractive style, Genghis Khan was soft for his people & rigid or we may say ruthless for other people, Lamb expressed his childhood habit to his old age actions and starting Mongol kingdom
A fascinating read of a much maligned ruler, a man far superior to his European contemporaries, a man who shook the world in his passing and created a peoples hitherto fragmented into warring tribes. An easy read (for those with a grasp of history) and a fulfilling one to all others.
Simply written but a great historical read. It is full of facts but it is put in a story context so that it is easy to understand. He really follows what actually happened. Very interesting!
A must read for anyone interested in the great khan...
Pulled this one out of my dad's library, and once I started reading, I couldn't put it down. It describes details of Genghis Khan unlikely to be found elsewhere.
Kai and I are read this in homeschool, Genghis gets a bad rap in history, but he really was an amazing leader. His story teaches how to be a great leader.
I listened to the audio book and think I would have liked to read this instead. The names of Gehghis' sub-chiefs were hard to follow (Subutai, Chipenoian - ?spelling)
First published in 1927. I probably read in 1950's. This book made me a lifelong fan of Genghis Khan.
Životopisy slavných historických postav lze zpracovat různým způsobem. V tomto případě jsem měl pocit, že autor má hluboké znalosti jak evropských tak čínských pramenů a dokáže je stručným, ale čtivým způsobem zasadit do historických souvislostí. Kdo miluje "encyklopedický" typ životopisů, tímto zpracováním asi nadšen nebude, mně naprosto vyhovovalo. Výstižné popisy způsobu života a okolí slavného vojevůdce velmi dobře zprostředkují pohled na tehdejší svět, což je mnohdy víc než suché letopočty. Nejde přitom o volné vyprávění, autor se striktně drží historických faktů.
Este libro trata sobre como Genghis Khan llegó al poder y expandio su imperio hasta conventirlo en el mas grande de todos los tiempos, si bien no se narra de forma muy detallada y cruda las guerras (como muchos han de esperar) si habla sobre las tácticas que utilizó y todo lo que tuvo que atravesar para lograr el gran emperador que fue. Realmente fue un libro que me gusto bastante, desde la secundaria que no leía sobre el tema y la verdad aprendí bastante.
Tarihi kendi yorumlarıyla anlatmak işte böyle bişey olsa gerek...Kaynak gösterilmeden bir nevi kendi yorumlarıyla CengizHan'ın hayatının anlatıldığı vasat bir eser.Arka kapak özeti:Yedi yüz sene var ki bir adam, neredeyse bütün yeryüzünü zapt etti.Dünyanın yarısına hâkim oldu ve insanlığa, kendisinden sonra birçok nesiller boyunca devam edecek olan bir korku saldı.Hayatı boyunca birçok lakaplar aldı.Ona "Büyük Katil" dediler,"Tarının Bir Cezası" dediler,"Mükemmel Savaşçı" dediler,"Taçların ve Tahtların Hakimi" dediler.Fakat biz onu en çok "Cengiz Han" adıyla tanırız. İnsanlara hükümdar olmuş birçoklarının aksine, bu adam, bütün lakaplarına lâyık olduğunu gösterdi...
