https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321566.Dictionary_of_the_Khazars
Dictionary of the Khazars - Right on the title page prospective readers are informed there are two, nearly identical, editions of this book – MALE and FEMALE (authors caps).
As both editions are now available in English, Serbian author Milorad Pavić and/or his publisher conclude this mini preamble with these words: “The choice is yours.” Quizzically quaint in that I see not only one but three choices a reader can make: 1) which edition to read; 2) to search or not to search for that ONE PARAGRAPH; 3) once found or not found, the amount of importance ascribed to said single paragraph (this “lexicon novel” is well over three hundred pages).
Jewish sources form one part of the enigmatic Dictionary of the Khazars.KhazarsSemi-nomadic Turkic steppe people who formed a state to the north of the Black and Caspian seas which despite dealings with both the Christian Byzantine Empire and the Muslim Umayyad Caliphate converted to Judaism in the eighth century.
Some scraps of surviving information about the Khazars were later gathered into a curious book known as the Dictionary of the Khazars.Milorad PavicWriter born in Yugoslavia known for playful works such as Dictionary of the Khazars, a novel written in the form of a dictionary in which the reader assumes an active part in creating in the story through which definitions and in what order they chose to read them.ReaderYou. To be confused with the author of this work.YugoslaviaFormer country not destroyed by Prince Sviatoslav of Kiev in the ninth century.
He claimed that in his previous life he had been the devil in the Jewish hell and had served Belial and Gebhurah, had buried golems in the attics of synagogues, and one autumn, when the birds had poisonous droppings that seared the leaves and grass they soiled, had hired a man to kill him.
This enabled him to cross over from the Jewish to the Christian hell, and now in his new life he served Lucifer.Whatever religion you’re into the Devil will find you…
The culture of the extinct Khazars survives only in scattered fragments of texts from competing sources, who all have their own tinted views and self-serving interpretations, documenting events and personages from before, during, and after The Khazar Polemic.The Khazar Polemic: early Khazar religion remains mysterious, but it seems the leader of the Khazars found it insufficient in explaining a portentious dream of his.
Each religion's extant texts on the subject amount only to fragments loosely gathered under general headings: names of groups or sects within Khazar society, prominent personages, significant events, folk wisdom, occupations, musical techniques, foods, salt, spirits, and demons.
It was here in 2007 that Warwickº bought a copy of Dictionary of the Khazars by Milorad Pavićº, which was the first English-language book he had seen during his trip.
When Warwickº bought a copy of the novel in Budvaº, in 2007, Pavić might easily have been described as Serbia's greatest living writer; by the time he actually read the book, Pavić had been dead for nearly a decade, his own life, like those of his Khazars, beginning its slow journey from news to history to legend to forgetting.Pʀɪʙɪᴄ́ᴇᴠɪᴄ́-Zᴏʀɪᴄ́, Cʜʀɪsᴛɪɴᴀ—Born in New York, Pribićević-Zorić already had a smattering of Slavic (thanks to her Yugoslavian father) when she moved to Belgrade for a year as a post-graduate.

I had this therapist once who was like "Why are you always doing hard stuff that you don't like instead of stuff that you are good at and enjoy?" The fact that I am doing this project signals to me that therapy has failed.Update: Due to my unwillingness to quit this book as well as my stubborn refusal to make any progress in it, I have now basically given up reading.
Houston, we are at an impasse.Update #2: I have given up on this book, and on my ENTIRE dumb project, not with a sense of defeat, but a strong feeling of triumph.
I adore this book.
I have the impression to live at Renaissance time.
It is an encyclopaedic project or the imagination competes for it in the reality.
An esthète pleasure for gentilhomme.
I have well on bought from the time the male version.
If I compared to female version, I did not find that the 17 lines of difference changed so much this book.I remember the writer during the TV program Apostrophe.
A small discreet and pleasant man.Why this workk is so forgotten while equivalent projects became cult books.I hope this rate help it to recover its row.
It is an open book, and when it is shut it can be added to: just as it has its own former and present lexicographer, so it can acquire new writers, compilers, and continuers...Thus, the reader can use the book as he sees fit.”), though in fact I read the book from cover to cover, as I would have read any novel, stopping only occasionally to check what had been written about an entry when it had appeared earlier.Thus, from a post-modern point of view, the novel is a well-conceived and -executed challenge to the conventional structure of narrative.The Authority of Narratives and NarratorsIt also questions the authority of all narratives (and their narrators), not just in its arrangement, but in its subject matter.The three separate dictionaries purport to be translations from the Greek, Arabic and Hebrew, of three separate but related accounts of the one historic event (although, again, it is possible that there might have been multiple similar events).The Khazar PolemicThe event (known as the Khazar Polemic) was supposed to have occurred in the eighth or ninth century A.D.The Khazars were a tribe of people who lived between the Caspian and the Black Seas.
It's one of those books you could spend a whole year with, unpacking it, taking notes, analyzing and cross-referencing, or you could just read and enjoy.The book is divided into three dictionaries focused around exploring The Khazar Polemic, a fictionalized account of the mass conversion of the Khazar people in which the representatives of the three Abrahamic faiths, Christianity, Islam and Judaism, were called to come before the Khazar king and present a case for their individual faiths.
However, there is a certain poetry to the book's ending if read straight through from Dr. Dorothea Schultz's entry to Appendix II after having the whole book behind you.
A bird foraging for food in the swamps and marshes sinks rapidly if it doesn't move.
We have to move on, we can't stay where we are, because we'll sink.This is less a novel, than shards of story reduced to a taxonomy.
The bird metaphor does reflect on the precariousness of the parsing.
Outside of the framing story, which we discover three-quarters of the way through Dictionary, there is a curious silence of intent.
I would recommend reading the entries which appear in all three sections of the novel first.
3.5/5 It is those who actually differ among themselves who pose the greatest danger. They long to meet one another, because their differences do not bother them. And they are the worst. We and our enemies will combine forces to fight those who allow us to differ from them and do not let this difference disturb their sleep; we will destroy them in one fell swoop from three sides...-Nikon Savast, a.k.a. Satan I'd be mightily pleased if the back cover claim of "A national bestseller" proved true, a
Name drops here include Eco, Borges, García Márquez, all of whom I agree with, all of them parts in this greater whole of parable myth, religious cornerstones, and a long running river of fact versus fiction, life versus dream, reader versus reading.
The book is a dictionary, male edition, picked into multiple parts via introduction, appendices, and the split between Christian, Judaism, and Islam, the former three complete with colorful pictographs that make the inside as beautifully eclectic as the outer cover.
The entries are collaborated and cross-referenced across the different sections, so one may leapfrog from one crossed/starred/mooned (you'll understand when you read it) from one denoted name to the next, if they like.
I have like no clue what I just read. I'll rate it 3 stars, but I might change it later. I can only say the following: dafq was this book?
Čitava priča kreće se oko Hazara, davno iščezlog naroda koji je ispovijedao nepoznatu vjeru na svom jeziku i oko Hazarske polemike - prelaska Hazara u jednu od tri religije: hriščanstvo, judaizam i islam.Odmah na početku Pavić daje iscrpnu dokumentarnu građu koja potpomaže stvaranje njegove pseudo istorije, jer vi zaista na kraju imate osjećaj da je (ako ne sve) bar većina stvari zaista vjerodostojna.
Sva tri rječnika sadrže odrednice koje potpomažu otkrivanje toga šta se desilo sa Hazarima i kojoj su se vjeri priklonili - i to je, uslovno rečeno, fabula romana.Međutim, veoma je zanimljivo kako se autor postavio prema čitaocu.
Converteram-se para uma das três religiões praticadas tanto naqueles tempos como actualmente - o judaísmo, o islamismo e o cristianismo.
Pouco tempo após a conversão, o reino dos khazar sucumbiu." Verbete 2.
Ou poderá virá-lo e revirá-lo como se fosse um cubo mágico."(eu usei os métodos todos.)Verbete 5."O autor aconselha o leitor a só pegar neste livro em casa extremo.""O leitor é um cavalo de circo ao qual é preciso ensinar a esperar, após cada tarefa bem feita, um pedaço de açúcar como recompensa.
Written as an encyclopedia containing cross-referenced entries between three different sections (Christian, Muslim, Jewish), it relates the efforts of various scholars to pin down exactly what happened at the Khazar court when the Khagan invited representatives from the three religions to hold a discussion to convince him of which path to follow.The Khazars were a real people and the Khagan really was their leader but apart from a few names from history (like Saints Cyril and Methodius and Al-Muqaddasi) this is a completely fictional account.
Whichever method you choose you'll get the whole story in a coherent manner but you'll have different perspectives on the scenes you read depending on the order you gain facts.
Seldom, if at all, does it happen that a storm accidentally drives you back to the same house you used long ago, so that as you spend the night there you remember where you once slept and how everything, although still the same, was different then, how spring dawned through that window and autumn walked out of that door..."And, of course, life is but a dream and eternity is upon all of us--"For there is no man's reality around us that someone else is not dreaming about somewhere in this human ocean tonight, nor is there somebody's dream that is not becoming the reality of another.
Pēc šādas ņemšanās biju tā nosvīdis, ka varēju padusēs sālīt zivi, un grāmatas lasīšana atlikās līdz augustamHazāru valdnieks, sapņa rosināts, reiz nolēmis tautai dāvāt jaunu reliģiju un uzaicinājis pie sevis jūdaisma, kristietības un islāma pārstāvjus, lai tie stāsta par savas ticības priekšrocībām.
Šoreiz grāmata atradās uzreiz (acīmredzot viņu ir grūti atrast tam, kurš to gatavojas lasīt pirmo reizi) un pārlasīju atkal.Lasīju kā grāmatu no viena vāka līdz otram.
Fascinēja sīkumi, kas pieminēti vienkārši tāpat garāmejot, bet nez kādēļ radot autentiskuma sajūtu.Man pat nav īsti kur piesieties, jo tas tikai lieku reizi parādītu manu neaptēstību un, iespējams, to, ka man labāk grāmatas lapas būtu bijis izmantot, lai nosusinātu zupai tauku plēvi.
The book is ostensibly mainly concerned with the mass conversion of the Khazars to one of the three Abrahamic religions in the 8th century.
I feel this will join a very particular group of books for me, those that, when I am feeling unwell or uninspired, I open at random and read, for a long or short time.
I will append some enjoyable shorter quotes shortly.An page with various links to things relating to The Dictionary of the Khazars, and a short note from Robert Coover admonishing my choice of reading method : http://www.khazaria.com/pavic.html
Maestralno!
Njoj su uvek  tri petka do večere, ima dobro začinjen osmeh, oči malo kose, tako da trepčući kapcima gnječi nos.
Sastavljen od tri knjige, Crvene, Zelene i Žute koje imaju poneku zajedničku stavku, Rečnik se prelama i cakli pod prstima kao da je pisan jednom vrstom Hazarske soli na stranicama od druge vrste, a ne mastilom na papiru.
Pavićeve jedinstvene sintagme kao i nepredviđeni idejni sklopovi su inspiracija svakome ko želi da se na neko vreme skloni iz prosečnosti i ustaljene retorike svakodnevice.
Dozovlite da vas to iznenađenje preplavi nečim stranim.
Ako ste zaboravili šta je to strano, da vas podsetim: to je užitak u najboljoj vrsti pisane reči.
I decided to go straight through cover-to-cover to see how Dictionary of the Khazars would hold up without the skipping around gimick.My verdict - It didn't!That's not a bad thing though.
For me, this was not the case and Pavic would have done well to leave this sentence out and just say "Skip around - I implore you."The other thing that must be taken into account though is the fact that I did not read the Dictionary of the Khazars in the order that Pavic created it.
The novel itself is structured like an dictionary where user can pick and choose the entries he wants to read in some random order.
That brings us to the question of why has Pavic structured the novel like this and is he not actually alienating the last 100 readers themselves from reading a book that is structured like this?
The characters seem to be in search of something, not just the almost mythical dictionary, but something beyond that.Finally, during reading of the novel and even after completing it, this is the image or thought that sticks in my mind.
The whole novel seems to be like a dream conjured up by Pavic for us readers.
Ovo bi trebalo da je vrhunsko dostignuće naše postmoderne. Žao mi je što se ne mogu složiti s tim. Koliko god se trudila, ne uspevam da prevaziđem vrstu šarlatanstva i prodavanja magle koju prepoznajem kod Pavića, da ne govorim o recikliranju i prepakovanju tuđih ideja. Iako jedinstveno u našoj književnosti, zbog čega kod mene i nije dobilo najnižu ocenu, ovo delo mi se učinilo toliko praznim, naročito za vreme u kome je nastalo, da nisam dobila želju da više pročitam ijedno Pavićevo delo.
This author can write! An inspiring, rich, funny, heartbreaking story.
They left behind relatively little reliable historic records, and the vacuum has been filled by myth: this novel is an imaginative contribution to their reconstructured history.The centre of the novel is an event that is recorded in history (albeit scholars disagree if it actually happened or is more myth) - the Khazar Polemic when the ruler of the state decided that the people should convert to either Judaism, Islam or Christianity, and invited a representative of each religion to argue the case for their faith.
I don't understand why finding this book on a borrowing shelf was the first I'd ever heard of it.
Told in multiple ways, the writing slips from narrative to nonsensical, fact to myth, legend to fantasy in the same breath, but everything fits together so perfectly that it is never a strain to read; you're led - or, sometimes, dragged - by the hand through the repeating circles of characters, concepts and tales, which round out progressively to something far greater than the sum of their parts, with a final tying of its knots coming only in the appendices.
A wonderful experience of a book, highly recommended.

Zanimljiva,pomalo zbunjujuca knjiga ali ok
Genijalno!
