https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3932797-national-avenue
The two previous volumes, The Turmoil and The Magnificent Ambersons, earned five stars from me but THE MIDLANDER.
("Growth Trilogy" # 3)(later re-named National Avenue) does not, in my opinion, meet the same standard.This book is set in the same fictional town in the American Midwest and deals with similar issues but the connection seems to end there.
I was surprised to discover that the Minafer and Amberson families of the first two volumes are not even mentioned.
I felt little connection or concern for the caricature-like cast of characters (the Oliphant and Shelby families).
National Avenue ends up being my least favorite of the trilogy, though it's certainly worth reading as most of Tarkington's books are, for his perceptive portrayal of a vanished time and changing times.
The exception to that, of course, would be Grandmother Savage, definitely the most opinionated and dynamic character in the book; and I couldn't help liking George McMillan—at least he's honest about his own shortcomings as well as others'.It's neat to note that Tarkington slipped in some little offhand references to characters and places from the first two "Growth" novels—I did read this in the collected one-volume version of the trilogy, but the references seem organic rather than stuck in afterwards, so I have a feeling he may have done it while writing with a view towards using National Avenue to link and round off the other two.
This third novel of the Growth trilogy is somewhat less successful than The Magnificent Ambersons and Turmoil, but it's still awfully good. My only criticism is that it follows too closely the style and theme of the earlier books. The earlier books inspired me to write glowing reviews on Goodreads. I just took a look at them, and they'll do as well for this fine novel. No need to repeat them; if I did, I'd be falling into Tarkington's trap.One reading tip from a confirmed Tarkington fan: read the trilogy in order, and prepare for a wonderful experience.
Growth is tied to change, changes in how language is spoken, how people see each other and how land is built up, torn down, re-purposed and the occupying population push and out ward.The Magnificent Ambersons takes us through the lives of a family on the decline from great wealth.
They created an exclusive society and concentrated enough wealth that their children could attempt to live a life for no purpose greater than being an example of what it can mean to just be.Part of what is driving the once proud Ambersons into decline is the topic of The Turmoil.
Into our city arrive the self-made James Sheridan and his family of hard driving and striding people.
