https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47304.The_Freedom_Writers_Diary
Erin Gruwell was a first-year high school teacher.
Her students are the lowest at the school so she begins with diaries written by others to have them create diaries of their own.
She was able to stay with these students for all four years of high school.
Perhaps this is why she was only a public school educator for 4 years.As a friend put it: "What the the educational system in America needs are distance runners not flashy sprinters." If you are a new teacher, please don't read this book.
Find a mentor who has been teaching for 10 years.
I had not had any intent to read it, as I have heard more than enough stories about the fish out of water young white teacher who is able to "save" the inner city youth from the apparent inevitability of failure.
The vocabulary and expressions used were not what I would expect to hear from a group of high school freshmen, particularly in a group of kids that was previously underachieving and hated reading and writing.
I just can't get past the belief that these diaries are not fully authentic and that these words have been reshaped somewhere along the line; how can I tell how much and by whom?
True, this collective diary depicts racism quite poignantly, but what touched me deeply is this: how the teens use writing to come out of the confinement of racism and resurrect their self-esteem. A powerful, captivating narrative.
I'd heard of the movie with Hillary Swank and intended (and still do) to stay away from it as I believed it was another "Gangsta's Paradise" cliche: white teacher, colored students, they all dance and learn.
When I picked up the book, I thought it would provide a few anecdotes of interest before I returned it to its pile on the floor where it would disappear under weightier matters.Three hours later, past midnight nearing 1 a.m., I finished the diary.As proclaimed by the authors, the diary is a continuation of the message and work carried on by other famous diarists: Anne Frank and Zlata Filipovic, in particular.
Freedom Writers by Erin Gruwell is one of the most interesting books I've ever read.It is about how 
Each entry sounds just like the next with only occasional sentences that feel "real" and un-edited.Good writers capture the energy of their experience, and these students have seen too much to be as bland as these examples portray.
all expressed in cookie cutter language that could all be written by the same person.I expected to see a realistic progression in the journal entries; I wanted to see improvement as these students grew as writers and people.
The students certainly had some amazing opportunities, and I was proud to see them develop as people as the book progressed.
This doesn't quite touch on the way inner city schools really are.
For instance, all the kids' writing is in standard English.
My kids, when expressing how they really feel, use what I call Urban English.
For instance, the teacher had her own room --- the same room --- for the 4 years she taught.
I have taught in about 15 different classrooms in the 3 years I've been teaching.
Usually, in the urban schools I know, teachers move from room to room each period.
I also hated the way the union was portrayed as protecting the seniority of teachers over the best interests of the kids.
It consists of a collection of diary entries written by the 150 Freedom Writers and their English teacher, Ms. Gurwell.
All of these Freedom Writers are students at Wilson High School in Long Beach California, where they have been placed in a below average English class with Ms. Gurwell as their teacher.
Through out these entries you will learn about the hard lives of these incredible individuals, their amazing English teacher, and their journeys towards changing the world and becoming a second family.
I always knew I wanted to change the world, but now after reading about the Freedom Writers I know I can.
Teaching voice is difficult - but it can happen - Each student's voice, like a fingerprint, is extremely unique, represented by punctuation marks, word choice, sentence variety.
In addition, some of the entries become redundant.I've been teaching for 25 years now and been involved with three different schools/union.
There is also not a lot about how she originally caught students - classroom management is not discussed but extremely important, so if you are a novice teacher looking for ideas, I suggest "Teach Like a Champion" instead.
Finally, Gruwell left teaching after about four years.
Particularly since it was a true story, it had all the potential of a classic tearjerker where this sap is concerned, and yet, it fell flat.First of all, they edited it so much that it felt fake.
I would have liked to have seen more of a rounded picture, more balance between "yay, us!" and what was going on outside their academic utopia.I think I would have liked this better if it had been fiction, to allow me to suspend my disbelief.
She goes on to inspire them to read, write, travel, and go to college.The book is made up of students' diary entries, so from the get-go the reader has to know that this is not professional writing.
She changed their lives in an inspiring way.Frankly, as I read the book, I found it hard to connect with her story and THAT is what actually bugs me.
Maybe it's the fact that I'm about to teach this book to a bunch of white kids who live in suburbia whose only knowledge of gangs, life in the projects, or urban poverty comes from the movies.
I had to read this after having seen an essay in Newsweek.
We former teachers always want to to hear those great success stories and this is certainly one of them!
My only wish is that the rest of the wonderfully creative and committed teachers out there were recognized like this one...the book itself was good.
I found it a bit redundant.
Worthwhile but I think you'll skip ahead after awhile.
I don't want to take anything away from it...buy it, read it, pass it on, support them, give every hardworking, "out of the box" teacher support and encouragement...THIS COUNTRY NEEDS THEM!!!
At that point, I wasn't too keen on reading the book, but when I saw the movie pop up in my Netflix recommendations list, I decided to check it out.
All the kids in Erin Gruwell's class have already been written off as failures, by other teachers, other students, and even their own parents.
The movie also gives a personal look into Erin's life, which is not present in the book.
so the reader would at least be able to see how Writer 1 changed throughout the course of high school.A few reviewers complained that the students' voices didn't sound "genuine," i.e. the diary entries should have been published in street vernacular.
In Ms. Gruwell's case, the complaints are that "she was only a teacher for four years..." "how dare she assume that she knows more about teaching than me," etc.Erin related the story of the starfish at the end of the book (putting one starfish back in the sea changed the life of that starfish).
1. I decided to read this book after watching the movie that the book inspired in class.
This is because I found parts of the book quite dull, repetitive, and I also found the writing style very simple and basic (although this is probably because it was written by a group of teenagers).
Even if the writing itself wasn't very good, I found the story very inspirational, because it shows how anyone can change if they are determined.2.
“Don't let the actions of a few determine the way you feel about an entire group.
This is a great book and a great film. I love the film more than the book, so I am going to link a bunch of scenes so you can see them and then read the book and watch the movie because it is awesome.Freedom Writers - The showdownHolocaust SceneLine GameI Saw the War for the First TimeWhen Will I Be Free?You Are The Heroes PLEASE WATCH THIS FILM, EVEN IF YOU DO NOT READ THE BOOK, PLEASE WATCH THE FILM!
I found this book to be a little manipulative. I understand that Ms. Gruwell was a spark for growth in the lives of these students, but I was a little annoyed. She taught these 150 kids for 4 years...why? Why didn't she try to reach as many students as possible? Couldn't she have sparked change in 4 different groups of 150 students? However, I greatly appreciated reading the students' impressions of the books they read. I am taking a few recommendations from them.
Dammit, kids!First year teacher Erin Gruwell found herself handed a class of "undesirable" kids that no one wanted and no one thought would go anywhere, let alone graduate.
Her classes, 150 kids, ended up being the center of attention nationwide for their success.
The kids in Ms. Gruwell's class are mainly from the bad areas, where they worry that they'll be shot coming to and from school, or beat up because they are the wrong color, or whether they will have food once they get home or even if they will have a home.
Read it !!! One of my favorite books of all times from just reading the first page ❤❤❤❤
Read it !!! One of my favorite books of all times from just reading the first page ❤️❤️❤️❤️
I was very moved by the film and was determined to read the book and learn about the actual stories of the students more in depth than what the movie had told us about these pupils.This book obviously comes under the category of "a book with themes related to those we've studied in the first half of the year."which is social inequality, and this book definitely has themes related to that as it heavily enforces and emphasises the effect racism has on these teenagers.The Freedom Writers Diary is a collection of over 140 diaries written by Ms Gruwell's students over a period of over 4 years, from their Freshman Year in High School till their Senior Year.
Erin Gruwell did not see her students as the Wilson Administration did but as individuals that held unique stories that the world needed to hear.
When I red the individual entries of the students which by the way, some were the same age as I am, I reed how they are so thankful to get somewhere without getting shot in the street or getting jumped.
To me the purpose of this story is to make people realize things like this really happen, teens do get shot and jumped but you wouldn’t know they endure such events when you look at them.
(But not necessarily to her credit; kids have to take a lot of courses other than English to graduate high school.) And there's no way every head she blessed belonged to a future graduate; obviously, graduation—or, at the very least, the likelihood of graduation—was one of the criteria needed for a student to be designated one of her official "freedom writers."I don't doubt that the author of this book is skilled at teaching English, like many another teacher I've had the privilege to know or whose writing I've read.
What Erin Gruwell is extraordinarily good at, obviously, is self-promotion.Please don't misunderstand.
Aside from talking about the struggle during that time perios, the overall message of this book was about the power of writing.
Writing, in this book saved the lives of many kids, some of which have gone on to be authors themselves.
but as time progressed, their attitudes trowards writing changed.
Through the power of writing, taught to them by Erin Gruwell, their teacher, they became motyivated to keep writing and they realized their true selves.
I would reccomend this book to anyone who takes an interest in not only writing, but how people can overcome adversity by finding their true selves and potential.
As Erin works with them, she brings upon change as she makes them write in a diary about anything they want and at the end of the day she reads them to get to know more about them.
This is a diary compiled from 150 students in Long Beach, CA.
This book is a compilation of the student's diaries and follows them through the four years they stay with Ms Gruwell.
Sometimes I wonder if the students without horrific experiences felt in that class.
I'm a little disappointed that the teacher left the high school after that to go teach at a university, but in theory she is training a lot more teachers her style of teaching now.
But I would be more powerfully impressed if she had stayed at Long Beach and done it for another 4 years with another 150 students.
At the beginning of their freshman year, none of them expected to graduate and were just basically trying to survive another day.
It was interesting to see their values change as the book progressed and how they really got to like each other and turned their lives around, thanks to their English teacher going way above and beyond the "call of duty." Whereas at the beginning they saw each other only in terms of race, at the end they saw each other as all human beings and friends.
What struck me as very unusual though was that they all kept the same English teacher for all four years.
As is almost always the case, there is so much more to the book than in the movie, mostly IMO how the students feel about going through all that they have experienced.Erin Gruwell, not only challenged her students, but challenged herself when she took a teaching position at Wilson High in Long Beach, California.
Amazingly enough she was able to stick with the same students throughout their four years of high school, and although her name is on the book, her students really wrote this book.It is divided into diary sections all with a number while the authors of each section remain anonymous.
If you have seen this movie, then you have to read this book.
When i watched the movie for the first time, it inspired me in ways i never thought possible.
When i found out that it was based on a real story and a non-fiction book, i NEEDED to read it.
Growing up in a completely different part of the world, i was stunned to read some of the Freedom Writers strories and struggles which were so foreign to me, like gang violence and places where drug addiction was the norm.
And most importantly, to believe.
To believe in myself, in the power of the written word, and to belive in change.
This is a really good book for me. I am doing a project for my reading class and this book had me hooked from the begining. I loved the part when the boy got into a shoot out. That part was very interesting. I can read and understand what the students in Ms.Gruwell's class is going through. I also really enjoy this book because i can relate to it. I dont know what else to say about the book , but I do reconmend you guys to read it.
this books was so good but very emotional
