https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18310315-easy-go
While 2 of those titles were eventually republished under his own name, the rest were abandoned to the dusty shelves of used bookstores around the world, becoming collectibles for those who knew what to look for.Easy Go, his third John Lange title, is one I came across a few years ago via a tattered paperback copy, re-titled The Last Tomb.
There is an interesting archaeological puzzle to kick it all off, and some nice scenes of tomb raiding later on, but they're almost secondary to the personalities.It's not going to make you forget the likes of Jurassic Park or State of Fear, but Easy Go is a fun romp that provides a glimpse into the man who would be Crichton.Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins
BOOK 69: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 2Hook=4 stars: "The Great Pyramid of Cheops filled the horizon" opens the book.
It's Crichton (Jurassic Park, Andromeda Strain and so many more very good to great novels) exploring ancient Egypt!
Don't remember anything about him after closing the book.Atmosphere/Place=2: I'm giving this 2 stars because I've read Gore Vidal's "Thieves Fall Out" and it felt like he'd never visited Egypt and had opened perhaps one tour book to mention a couple of statues.
Here, it feels like Crichton has read several tour books for his research, but also had not visited Egypt.
I recently realized I have read every work of fiction Michael Crichton published under his own name.
There is still a little more Crichton to go-the author wrote eight novels under the pen name John Lange, and I still have three of those to track down.
Speaking of which-Easy Go is a reasonably thrilling heist novel.
I am not a big fan of this kind of book but these are some nice twists that elevate Easy Go above your typical adventure.
It still amazes me that Crichton wrote the Lange novels to pay for college-he was freaking brilliant.
An unlikely band of acquaintances come together to score big off of tomb robbing.
An archaeologist, a wealthy Englishman, a writer and a couple of hired muscle men along with the beautiful personal secretary to the Englishman head to the heat of Egypt under the guise of translating hieroglyphics.
By night, they search for an elusive tomb thought to contain wealth beyond their means.Easy Go is an easy read.
You wont find a lot of facts about Egypt and the hidden treasures that abound but you will encounter a lively bunch of characters each with their own distinct 'feel' and a thief's theme that takes an unconventional turn.
This was one of Crichton's earliest novels, and possibly his first according to at least one source I found, originally written when he was in medical school.
As I was reading I could see shades of who would become the author of some of my favorite books as a teenager: Jurrassic Park, The Andromeda Strain, Congo, Sphere, Timeline, Prey, State of Fear, and others.
The diverse group of strangers brought together is a motif he would continue in future novels such as Jurassic Park, Sphere, and The Andromeda Strain.
I wanted it to be written by a mature Crichton.
I definitely am going to check out more of the John Lang books.
I've been waiting years and years and years to get a chance to read Michael Crichtons John Lange books, thank you Hard Case Crime for getting them out there!Easy Go was actually a better read then I was expecting, a fast and exciting book it really feels like a good draft of what would have been a great Crichton.
It's like the Hays Code for books, and it is really unsatisfying.Anyway, the setup is a classic adventure plot: Someone Discovers Something Astonishing, a Crew is Formed, The Plan Gets Underway, Some Setbacks Occur (but Nothing Too Difficult), The Plan Goes Off (With a Small Hitch), The Jig is Up, The End. Where The End = A Solution To The Benefit Of All But Without The Boundless Riches Envisioned By Everyone Involved.Clive Cussler cut his teeth on this kind of thing, I assume.
QUELLE DISAPPOINTMENT.And it even SPOILER ends in a marriage, just like a cosy romance novel.
ScienceThrillers.com review: Easy Go is a new ebook release of a thriller written in 1968 by the late great Michael Crichton under the pseudonym John Lange.
Easy Go is part of a series of ten ebook releases billed as “the Med School Years” written by Crichton under the Lange name as well as the names Jeffrey Hudson and Michael Douglas.People often speak of an author’s “first book.” Usually they mean the first book written by the author that became well-known, more appropriately called the author’s breakout novel.
Readers could do a lot worse than spend an afternoon reading this high-concept thriller by the young Michael Crichton.
Барнаби се среща случайно с Пиърс, стар познат от войната в Корея, с който решават да съставят план за разкопаването и изнасянето на съкровищата от тази гробница, под носа на египетските власти.Оттам насетне действията на Пиърс напомнят на ролята на Франк Синатра от славния шестдесетарски филм "Бандата на Оушън" (Холивуд не пропусна да направи и негов римейк, почти половин век по-късно), като оформя малък и опитен екип от мистериозни и доверени типове, които да се включат в начинанието, или по-точно в обира.Книгата не ме изненада с нищо.
Pretty good "pulpy fun" from the creator of Jurassic Park, etc., back before fame when he was earning a few cents a word writing for the smaller publiushers under the name "John Lange." The strong parts of this book -- and I would recommend it -- are its characters and setting, all of which spring forth effortlessly from a mind that is clearly adept at telling stories.
Not because of a highly intricate plot or even well-developed characters (though these factors generally influence my reviews of books), but because it provided my most basic need when reading any book: it captured my attention enough to keep me wanting to read more.Reading some other reviews of EASY GO, it's clear that some people have unrealistic expectations.
This is one Crichton's first ever novels (perhaps even his very first, according to one source), and it was written as a young, undeveloped writer--first published when he was 26, but probably written at an earlier age--not to mention he was also going through Med School at the same time.
It is a very exciting story of an Egyptologist, Harold Barnaby who specializes in translating hieroglyphics.
During a stint in Egypt to work on translating receipts and other records -- meaning it was mundane work -- Barnaby came across a document which looked much like all the others until he tried to read it.
The document was not making any sense and as Barnaby studied it, he discovered it was written in a very different manner -- it was in code.
Robert decides to work with Barnaby and helps to build a "team" together.
The story is written in the classic Chrichton style with adventure, romance, and a bit of knowledge on Egyptian history.
Crichton takes the reader on an adventure through the valley of the kings, to an undiscovered tomb with a treasure estimated in the millions of dollars.
Like all Chrichton literature, the story is filled with facts and details from a particular subject.
In this case, the subject is Egypt and The Valley of the Kings.
Chrichton includes details surrounding the discovery of King Tut's tomb and explains the myth behind the curse of the pharaohs.
I understand these books are ancient throwbacks - I mean, it was published in '68, but still, found this extremely predictable, full of cliches and lazy 'twists' etc....
I'm a massive fan of Ian Flemming et al, and while I realize these are just fun pulpy stories, there has to be a little something more behind just the breezy pacing and exotic locals where adventure of some sort takes place.Tomb stealing in Egypt (Luxor), a cast of strangely naive rogues and eccentrics, bit of fan service by means of a revolving occidental harem, some romance with a critical woman involved in the same grave robbing she's bizarrely criticizing, wise (half caste) locals etc...
Not a BAD BOOK, but not much to recommend it either - two lukewarm stars for me.
Many of the reviews on here rate this highly, as it is Baby Crichton, after all.
It's a lackluster story with an ending that peters out in the most basic of happily ever afters.
The characters are not fleshed out, the women are props with no volition of their own, the "main" character's motives / background is never explained.I would recommend this book to people with are die hard Crichton fans and have to read every one of his offerings.
I would NOT recommend this book to people who enjoy adventure, learning about Egyptian culture or history, plot lines that are consistent, or a story with any substance.
If you go into this book with the mindset of it being a dime novel adventure tale then you won't be disappointed. It's an entirely different beast to Crichton's technothrillers but I'm glad of that. This is pure, old-school adventure. It rattles along at a fast pace with old timey characters doing daring things. Set mostly in Egypt, it's all about a tomb heist. To say more than that will spoil it, but if you're looking for a quick read that's fun and utterly enjoyable, this is a good one to try out.
To call this book superficial is an understatement.The characters are thin, the love relationship forced, the plot lacking tension, the ending showing the author really didn't know where he was going with this book. Overall, a disappointment. What saves it a smidge is the descriptive scenes of the tomb and how they unearth it.If you are a Crichton fan looking to complete reading his output, you may enjoy this book more. If not, enjoy the cover than move on to the next book.
I read this to study adventure plot elements, but found it a weak example.  It seems mostly a way for Lange/Crichton to spend some time sharing (now) fairly well-known Egyptian lore, and to indulge in a gentle tomb-finding fantasy.  Feel free to read it as a bedtime story, it's a low-adrenaline project with more logistical issues than danger.
To many characters without clear definition, two many locations in to quick an order with no clear time-frame of events, and an unsatisfying and abrupt ending. All these problems overshadow an interesting setting.
This was kind of fun, and rattled along at a good pace, but I ended up not really knowing what the hell was going on. Possibly worth 2 stars rather than 3 but Egypt, heist, etc
A disappointing read from an author who I enjoy. It was, well, boring.
Banally racist and sexist; enjoyable enough if you can get past that, but nothing special.
This was a pretty good adventure story of some people that are trying to steal treasure from an Egyptian tomb.
*yawn* + implausible romance
Crichton has some colorful characters--about half of whom didn't really come to life for me--and throws in a romantic subplot that I'll discuss later.
He was determined not to see his tomb robbed and his remains desecrated like those of so many other pharaohs, even back then.The book does pick up once the tomb is found and slowly, painstakingly, the secrets of the pharaoh are uncovered.
At first, I thought the hieroglyphics expert was going to be the main character, as it was he who translated the cryptic puzzle--hidden in plain sight--that gave directions to the tomb.
The romance is a way to keep things moving even when the process of uncovering the tomb is going slowly.
An archaeologist finds a coded message in some ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics that points to the existence of the tomb of an unknown pharaoh and a lost treasure.
The most interesting member of this crew is Lord Grover, who is already rich and is only investing in the mission as a lark.
So here it is…(Spoiler alert) Varese, the Director of the Egyptian Antiquities Department, suspects the expedition of criminal mischief after he finds an authentic scarab beetle made of lapis lazuli, which one member of the crew lost.
Here’s the rub: Varese needs the crew in order to find the location of the tomb.
This was entertaining literature and a fun quick escape read.
It was recommended by a co-worker who also likes to read.
Although well-written the story and characters felt cardboard and 2D.
The scenery, while well described, felt incidental - and that is something to say about an illegal, clandestine dig to loot The Last Undiscovered Significant Tomb of Egypt.
It is clear that this is one of Michael Crichton's early efforts.
Best part: Describing what they found.
It felt like someone called Time at the pub and he wrapped it - boom!
Despite the above, I found it to be a pleasant enough read.
This is a book written by Michael Crichton under a pseudonym while attending medical school.
The plot revolves around the search (with intent to steal and hold for ransom) for the last undiscovered pharaoh's tomb.
The originator of the plot is a heretofore respectable archaeologist specializing in reading hieroglyphs.
The search is carried out under the eyes of the Egyptian government with their ostensible goal being to re-photograph and translate hieroglyphs in an existing tomb, while the real work is done at night.
Although this book is not as sophisticated as Crichton's later work, it is surprisingly well written for something written while attending medical school, and includes a twist at the end I was not expecting.
quite the surprisequite a lot of typos, too;eh, open road?p99: he dug a hole two and a half feet dee
When I got my hands on these 11 pre-Crichtonian novels, I was really excited.
The first novel was a good one, second was really not my cup of tea, I stopped reading it after first 15 pages or so.
Hard Crime Novel.
So I started with a bit of caution.
I read some of the reviews here, and was a little worried.
But this is almost a typical MC novel.
It picked up pace right from the beginning.
Although it's nothing close to The Great Train Robbery, but it still is almost there.
I loved the way it ends, again feels a little abrupt.
