https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52676.The_Land_of_Mist
DNF.Professor Challenger became fascinated with Spiritualism (and you should too).
It is told in third person and of the original four characters only Professor Challenger and Edward Malone are present.
The book is too busy being excited about Spiritualism to bother about such trivialities as interesting plot or characters.
His Professor Challenger was the proof that he can create another equally good character.
In this book he destroys the guy in the worst possible way: not by killing him physically, but by killing him as a character.
For this reason all the drama of the book feels highly artificial.
Arthur Conan Doyle wrote this (the third book to feature the great Professor Challenger) after great bereavements and whilst he was increasing his involvement and devotion to spirituality.
Written in third person unlike the other outings of Professor Challenger's existence, this feels like a very different book and there's no real reason for that character to be used here as we see so little of him he's almost redundant.
But the real failing of this book is that it simply comes across as anti-science pro-spirituality propaganda.
Conventional science, which Doyle has praised in the past, is slandered and painted as an incredibly negative and misguided vice whilst seance's are passed over as real fact.
This is pure tripe. If it hadn't been about Challenger I would never have finished it. I can't look past the blatant nonsensical propaganda and the agenda Doyle had when he wrote this. He used his character to promote his own cause, forcing his own on them. Bad form and misuse! I disapprove heartily.
A magnificent story about the supernatural. A.C. Doyle, a famous supporter of the spiritualist movement, defends his ideas by putting them in a nove, where he combines sciense with spirituality. Since I am interested in spiritualism I particulary liked to get a view on how things worked in the spiritualist movement in the early 21th century. Verry interesting to read about Doyle's experiences with certain phenomena. I really enjoyed it, and even if you don't believe, it's a great novel anyway :)
As just about every other Arthur Conan Doyle books, this is a very well written book. The topic of this book, however, could not be further apart from a traditional ACD book. Personally, I didn't like the story. It lacked the depth and extraordinary imagination that can usually be found in his story. The only interesting part of this book, is how this dramatic change in writing style reflects the great effect the death of his wife had on Arthur Conan Doyle.
I don't know if I have ever read such a biased book in my life.
This is one of many examples of a false religion that strives to portray itself as Christianity.
And it is much, much worse to teach a false Gospel than teach a different religion, for you are blaspheming the name of the Lord.
Here are some quotes from the book, from a conversation between a raised spirit and it's 'good medium'(apparently there are such things):"Is it right that you can come back?"(medium)"Would God allow it if it were not right?
Did manage to find two quotes: "You never know who are your friends.
Apenas he leído la mitad, pero ha sido más de lo que soy capaz de soportar, la experiencia me ha irritado bastante.La editorial Jaguar lo editó hace unos años, olvidado desde hace decenios en el mercado español.
No estoy muy seguro de como de accesible está en el extranjero, pero es perfectamente comprensible que muchos aficionados a Doyle tiendan a olvidarlo.Arthur Conan Doyle no solo fue el creador de Sherlock Holmes o el Profesor Challenger.
El resultado es indigno y bastante irritante.Solo podría recomendárselo a aquellos interesados en esta peculiar faceta del autor, y que quieran conocer sus justificaciones y puntos de vista sobre la temática.
Professor Challenger and Malone return for a third adventure, this time exploring the spiritual world.
This is an odd story as it is essentially Doyle's attempt at making his readers believe in spiritualism.
For the most part it's Malone going to seances interspersed with linking scenes and the odd other ghost story.
Still, Professor Challenger is a wonderful character and though he is largely absent in this book he does have some excellent moments towards the end, including a rather lively public debate.
When Doyle breaks out of the ghost stuff here he does give us some great character scenes, it's just that they are few and far between.
It felt more like propaganda with known characters vaguely scattered throughout.
Challenger's wife is dead.
Challenger has a daughter, who is the love interest of Malone, not that anything is ever mentioned about it, which is another reason it felt more like propaganda.
At times I wondered if it was really him who wrote it, it was that unlike him and his style.Since Summerlee is dead, and Roxton doesn't come in until halfway through, and the third person telling, I felt like the "dream team" had fallen apart.
I don't recommend this for anyone who is looking for the continuation of the "dream team".
This had characters from the Professor Challenger series, and that provided additional interest.Primarily, Arthur Conan Doyle wrote this after he had begun his explorations of Spiritualism.
The book revolves around Edward Malone (a reporter for the Daily Gazette), Professor Challenger, and Challenger's daughter Enid.
Malone has been writing a weekly column about various religions, and now he endeavors to write about Spiritualism.
Doyle used the book to evangelize this system of belief, even going so far as to claim that the Bible was misinterpreted, and he goes into non-Christian dogma that he believed in.
There is a lot that as a Christian I could find objectionable.
I read this one as part of the Professor Challenger series when I was going over the early history of Science Fiction a couple of months ago, and I managed to soldier through out of sheer stubbornness. To say that it was awful would be putting it mildly. Yes, I understand the circumstances in which this book came to be written, and I realize that it was an attempt by the author to promote his most treasured beliefs, but it basically slaughters the characters and makes the weaknesses of Conan Doyle's style painfully apparent.
So far, this is the only book from Arthur Conan Doyle I have not liked. It reads more like a several hundred pages long pamphlet for spiritism than like a novel. Actually, I left it to rest for several months and just decided to finish it up the other day, and even this last bit I had left has felt like crossing the desert.I definitely would not recommend it.
This story loses its thread pretty quickly, as it's about Spiritualism, one of the things Conan Doyle became very flaky about and thus had no perspective about. I don't think I ever managed to finish it; it's a rather sad contrast to the other Challenger stories.
Fascinating stuff.
It's a flimsy setup - Edward Malone, who we know from the previous books, and Professor Challenger's daughter Enid set out to research and write an article on spiritualism for the paper.
Most of the novel follows Edward and Enid, with very little from Professor Challenger until the end.
I enjoyed following along with the characters as they learned more about spiritualism, and Professor Challenger, while slightly neutered, still had some great moments of his old self.
There are two short stories left in the Professor Challenger series, and I'm very curious now to see what happens in those.Book Blog | Twitter | Instagram
I wasn't aware that this book was part of a trilogy; I read it purely based on an interesting anecdote from my grandad during his time in the Navy.
I think it should have been obvious from the beginning how this book would turn out; the character of Challenger being so arrogant and cocksure of his beliefs, only for him to be 'proven wrong' during a seance.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was a self confessed spiritualist so I feel like it was definitely obvious that this book was going to have an ever so slight agenda.
The joins show.
The story only comes to life when the old characters, Challenger, McArdle, Malone, come on stage, and even then this Challenger is not the same Prof we knew and hated.
Most of the book is a mishmash of the author's seance experiences, lightly fictionalised, and a bit of ghost stuff with a vicar who should be unfrocked, and a totally gratuitous episode about child cruelty and Jewishness.If this had been written by an unknown author, it would never have found a publisher.
It would be a kindness to the memory of the Conan Doyle who brought us Holmes and The Lost World to forget that The Land of Mist was ever written.
Con razón tienen de no publicar esto y cambiar en las aventuras del profesor Challenger. Menudo truño de las altísimas torres. La novela no es más que un medio para explicar la visión de los mediums y demás pájaros, sin apenas argumento excepto los pasos necesarios para contar lo que Doyle nos quiere hacer ver.Comenzamos con Malone y la hija de Challenger asistiendo a unas sesiones de espiritismo como periodistas, y termina con Challenger convencido a pies juntillas de la verdad de todo el tema.Ciertamente se le ve el plumero, y no poco, al amigo Conan Doyle.
An exploration of the Spiritualist movement in the early 20th century, mostly through a series of séances and other psychic phenomena observed by Malone. The inimitable Prof. Challenger does not appear very much in this book. Really, not much of a plot aside from Malone's increasing credulity. It is kind of sad that a writer of Doyle's caliber felt compelled to write this sort of propaganda.
Continuing my annual "Read a Sir Arthur Conan Doyle book - NOT of a Sherlock Holmes nature- in honor of ACD's Birthday" tradition.This time around, an aging Professor Challenge takes on not a deadly comet or lost dinosaurs, but the afterlife & spiritual mediums. Needless to say, the Scion of Science is not going to stand for this chicanery. However, things can change and even the most steadfast of individuals.
The ratings seemed a bit low for this book but I didn't read the first Challenger books before this. I really liked the story and love that it is by Arthur Conan Doyle. I am not a great fan of the Sherlock Holmes stories yet but this was I thought an Excellent Ghost story. A good read My ratings do give credit for books written so long ago, In all fairness the older authors did not have nearly the access to the reference material that new authors have now.
To be honest, if this was the last in the series I would have skipped it since it focuses solely on spiritualism. It was somewhat interesting, a great author trying to make one his most famous scientific characters come to believe in spiritualism. But if this is the tone the rest of the Professor Challenger books take, I won't be continuing with them.
I quit. It was quite obvious that Doyle was writing this book as propaganda for Spiritualism right from the very start, and I made the mistake of reading a few Goodreads reviews and decided to throw in the towel early (too many books, too little life) though I enjoyed the first two Challenger books.
As interesting as the characters remain, the narrative suffers from the never ending explanations of the spiritualism which the book centers on. A lot of world building and very few feats accomplished.
Ugh. Doyles obvious obession with Spiritualism completly ruined Professor Challenger for me. It didn't seem as much of an adventure into the unknown (like the lost world, or even the poision belt) and was more a progandist peice on Spiritualism.
As others have said, this is very different tale to the two preceding Challenger stories, being devoted to the subject of Spiritualism in which the author was very interested and about which he was very enthusiastic in his later years.
Meh.
Found it quite boring, I could only read 20 pages.
Great writing, a not so ordinary change in Challenger’s manner is a bit surprising.
I also found the shifting narratives quite distracting as the book makes it seem like these characters (excluding Enid and Malone) have an impact on the plot (what little there was of it) but none of them did as somewhere along the line it would end up with one dying or another getting arrested.
But as it just stands it is fairly boring, mediocre at best.You may not have read through all this (and frankly I wouldn't hold it against you) so in short I do think this is worth a read, mainly for Conan Doyle completists so just be aware of that and don't expect any thrilling scientific adventures or anything because it's certainly a book that I'm not likely to revisit.
