https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55322.Boss
Mike Royko must have had balls of steel to write this book in 1971, during the heyday of the Chicago Machine!
The intimate political details of all who ran "The Machine" could not have been well received when this book debuted.I still miss reading Mike Royko's columns in the Trib.
"Faux News, etc." Unexpected takeaway: In light of today's obstructionist and corrupt Republican party fostered by Karl Rove and the Koch Brothers, I was truly taken aback by the corruption and brutality of the Chicago Democrats of the 1950s-1970s.
This book made Republicans seem like "the nice guys."
Wow. This book was fantastic. Like Nelson Algren, I think Boss should be essential reading for a life-long Chicagoan. I don't look at the city the same way. The buildings, the city's workings, even articles in the Chicago Tribune--it all looks different to me now. It's a good thing, although not necessarily for Chicago.
Daley illuminated many things about the great city of Chicago.
were especially intriguing as Royko did not know at the time that Richard M.
Although Royko is clearly critical of the Chicago Democratic Machine, and probably didn't make any friends in the Daley family with this book, he is generous enough to point out their successes, which have only become more obvious with time as more cities in the Midwest rust away and face challenges that never materialized in our fair city (such as a dearth of downtown residents).
My only regret is that Royko won't be around to write a similar account of our current mayor.
You can level some of the blame on the machine's "get out the vote" patronage schemes, or Daley having all the media outlets in his back pocket (the Tribune sucked back then, too), or people's fear of the cost of having to change the name of millions upon millions of placards, signs and labels that coated the entire city.
But at the heart of this story is a depressing realization that democracy is easily manipulated, and people will all to often vote for a choice that is in opposition to their well being.Great read though.
He also knows Chicago, and captures Daley and the city at a key juncture in American urban history.
He sometimes fails to pull back his lens and give the reader a wide-angle shot of the man's talents and the challenges he faced as mayor of a large city during a very difficult time in history.But the bottom line is that Boss is a classic, one of the great books of American literature.
If years have passed since you immersed yourself in Rokyo's Chicago, it would be well worth your time to once again read the slim volume.
Royko's writing style wears a bit thin at times (he was a columnist for the Sun-Times, and most of the book is written in that sort of punchy, jump-to-conclusions, one-sentence-paragraph style) but overall this is an excellent and accessible introduction to some of the ugly political legacies and relationships that continue to define Chicago's governance.
But it was also the only way for white working-class folks to make it to the top of the political power structure, and Daley poured so much into the Machine that upheld that structure in part because, without it, a guy like himself would never have become mayor.
Nearly fifty years since Mike Royko published this scathing, methodical documentary of the rise and rule of Chicago’s Machine and its iron-fisted monarch, Richard J.
I approached this 80,000-word narrative with trepidation, having been accustomed to Royko’s 1000-word newspaper columns I read religiously during my graduate school years in Madison, a stone’s throw from Mike’s beloved Chicago, which I visited often to see my best friend.
Daley ruled his city with an iron fist, demanding loyalty and quick to exact revenge from anyone who crossed him.
Daley’s ultimate Theory X management style culminated in the confrontation between 10,000 protestors and 23,000 police and guardsmen at the1968 Democratic convention.
fine fine book- a testament to the shit hole racsism and crooked cops and political machine of daley's chicago. facts no one brings up- lester maddox and bull conner were both at the '68 chicago convention.
Daley’s fans will be glad to know that he didn’t even last out the first hour in Springfield as a Republican, moving to the Democratic side on the first day.When Daley was running for re-election after fulfilling none of his promises with regard to the neighborhoods, national magazines and local newspapers focused on his revitalizing of the Loop.
116).But what I remember most clearly about Chicago during the Daley administration was seeing video of the events surrounding the 1968 Democratic Convention.
I know Royko had an anti-Daley bias, but I have seen evidence of some of what he ascribes to this era in other volumes of history related to Chicago.
Daley of Chicago is still a fascinating book.
I found this among Dad's books when I got home from college during the Christmas break and read it in a sitting. Neither definitive nor scholarly, it's still a mildly amusing tale of Daley, Chicago politics and his rise to power within it.I only saw Richard J. Daley in the flesh once, at the annual downtown St. Patrick's Day parade sometime during high school when my friends and I had managed to obtain positions across the street from his reviewing stand. It was a cold, grey day. The parade was boring.
This book made me quite nostalgic, not for the Daley administration, but for reading Mike Royko's daily columns in the Chicago newspapers. There is no figure on the Chicago journalism scene (such as it is) who comes close to his knowledge of the city and its political machinations. This book provides a quick primer on Chicago politics. There really is no way to understand the current political landscape in the city without understanding its antecedents.
i finally finished this rowdy book that could be read in a single sitting at a noisy bar. what can i say? so little has changed. i am fascinated by what the current mayor thinks of his father and how he believes his regime differs. and I will never look the same way at "Venetian Night" again.
Big blast from the past, dated but not dusty.
The extent of my knowledge about the old man came from the shaded nostalgia of my lifelong-Chicagoan parents and the title of the book American Pharaoh, mixed with my own assumptions of the mythic power of the man who preceded and paved the way for my own Mayor Daley's iron-fisted reign.
As it was, he was none of those things and had none of those percipiences.I will say that Royko, in his unerring disregard for Daley, his administrative style, and what he did to Chicago, never seems to acknowledge what exactly kept Chicago from going the way of other industrial Midwestern cities like Cleveland or Detroit.
I didn't realize at the beginning of reading this book that it was written during the administration, which was incredibly ballsy during the height of the Machine.
However, that does mean the last five years of Daley's administration are not in the book, nor is his death in office and immediate aftermath.
Leading up to the mayoral elections in early 2019, I'm hoping to read more recent Chicago history so I'll need to find something that covers his last five years, Harold Washington, and the second Mayor Daley.
For all people interested in Chicago politics and history, I recommend this book.
I knew a little about Mayor Daley once I moved here, and I am familiar with the city's history generally, but this book adds so much color to that sparse framework.The book is written by a journalist and it many ways it reads like a juicy extended daily column.
That makes sense given that Mike Royko, the author, was a daily columnist for thirty years.
The story is larger than life just like the city it takes place in, and the man the book portrays.I definitely recommend this book for a nice story behind the story of Richard J.
Daley, and the city of Chicago that he made.
A detailed look at the Machine Daley operated while in office and a nice primer on some mid 1900’s Chicago history. I also now know which streets were named after white male politicians.
for school
one of the finest political books I've ever read -- an incisive takedown of Democrat Machine local politics, yet done in eight-hundred fewer pages than  The Power Broker.
Daley of Chicago” is a book written by Mike Royko following the story of a politician who ruled Chicago.
For twenty of those forty eight years Richard was able to work as the mayor for Chicago.
Throughout the book Royko followed specific times where Daley showed his leadership qualities and wonderful characteristics.
His twenty years as mayor before and during the Vietnam era is where he made a name for himself by connecting with the people of Chicago and making them his own.
Daley making his executive decisions and going through his tough times.
I can't decide whether this book makes me feel optimistic or pessimistic.
On the one hand, this book makes me feel dreadfully depressed about humanity's collective intelligence.
It's the type of thought to make one dumbfounded by the fact that democracy really does seem to be the best political system.
On the other hand, the one positive about this book is that it does drive home our potential for change.
The fact that the new progressive city is run by the son of the old, reactionary, Machine-run city highlights what I consider to be the main hope of humanity: demographic change.
No other book I've ever read more graphically details the inner workings of American politics and political actors in a major American city.
I would go so far as to suggest that Mike Royko's detailed account of former Chicago Mayor Richard Daley exemplifies the political reality of many, if not most, American cities regardless of size.
Furthermore, the political reality of Chicago illuminated in Royko's book seems to mirror our federal political reality today.
Royko's account of Daley Chicago is an eye-opener, and I look forward to reading it a second time.
There is no greater example of "The Machine" at work, with it's endless patronage, Ward bosses, bureaucratic shuffling, and endless strategy than the reign of Chicago's Richard J.
Daley was a fascinating figure to watch in his work, and nobody watched him better than Mike Royko.
Royko, who was a seasoned Chicago journalist, ruffled all the right feathers with this slim yet damning look at the mayor.
This book, though obviously slanted, is still a wonderful read for anyone fascinated by the American City and it's inner workings.
There hasn't been a book written about an American mayor since that trumps this one.
Daley, mayor of Chicago from 1955 until his death in 1976 and chairman of the Democratic Party of Cook County for even longer.
As the top man in a well-oiled political machine, Daley was often considered corrupt as political offices were often filled with patronage posts and nepotism while public works projects came in well over budget after politically-connected contractors were chosen.
Daley, as the mayor-for-life, had big ideas that are mostly chronicled here.
I also wish the book would have been more charitable where perhaps it ought have been, though the real profile of Daley was told through the lens of a machine muckraker.
The book is fascinating because it is written from a journalistic point of view (Mike Royko, the author, was a long-time Chicago newspaper columnist) and therefore allows Daley's actions to speak for themselves rather than providing the reader with a set interpretation.
Most politicians crave and horde power, but it is usually in pursuit of money, fame, companionship, or something else.
This book provided a fascinating window into the last breed of an important type of political figure in American history.
Mike Royko was a newspaper columnist in Chicago while Richard J.
was "da mare" of Chicago when it was, under Daley's Democratic political machine, the original "city that works." Royko was persona non grata in City Hall and he seemed to relish that status.
Royko's column was often inconvenient for Daley and usually incisive in its criticism of him.
Royko's book uses that tool set well.
If you read this book, by all means, read what I consider its companion piece, Clout: Mayor Daley and His City by Len O'Connor.
I read this book maybe 20 years ago while I was still living in Chicago, when Royko was still alive, when Daley Sr. was still fresh in my memory; it was great then, but is even more interesting to me now that I live far outside the city limits, Royko is gone and Richie Jr. is in charge of the city.
the book starts out GREAT but devolves after the first few chapters into a pure rant by Royko against Daley.
The rest ofthe book lacks the subtlety and finesse of the first few chapters; it turns into a long listing of reasons why Daley is the American answer to Stalin.
Daley, his Democratic political machine, and his city of Chicago.While Royko starts off fairly sympathetic of Daley as just a politico who diligently rises up party and government ranks (thanks in part to an awful lot of unrelated, timely deaths), the second half of the book on Daley's reign as mayor of Chicago is gripping but wearying.
Royko paints Mayor Daley as a boss that cares about strengthening his own power base over helping his citizens or his personal state.
Daley's political career spans the Democratic party's switch from the party of Tammany Hall and Strom Thurmond to the party of George McGovern and (now) Barack Obama.
I really enjoyed reading Author Mike Royko's columns in the major Chicago metropolitan daily newspaper, where for a brief time, we both worked.
His book about the political patronage system of the Chicago Democratic "Machine" so-called, while interesting and well informed, overlooks the supreme viciousness of the Illinois Republican "Machine" as I call it.
Neither Mike Royko back then, nor those similarly acerbic Boston political critics, Mike Barnicle and Andrew "Andy" Heller, have anything to say about Republican misdeeds.
Even the American LAWYERS were strangely SILENT during the FIASCO that was that GD TEXAN George Bush's TENANCY IN OUR WHITE HOUSE.
"An Irishman who came here hating only the Englishmen and Irish Protestants soon hated Poles, Italians, and blacks.
A Pole who was free arrived hating only Jews and Russians, but soon learned to hate the Irish, the Italians, and the blacks." (31)"Daley's name had to be written in on the Republican side of the ballot.
Sprinklers were attached to hundreds of hydrants, and water was gushing everywhere.
The city's department of planning mobilized to launch a long-range program of black wetness." (response to 1966 "hydrant riots", 154)"'[I]f you put together a coalition of independents, blacks, liberals, and Republicans, there is no way Daley can keep you from getting twenty-nine percent of the vote.'" (215)
