https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297186.L_A_Requiem
I can't stop reading Crais.In this one, our hero Elvis Cole is pulled into a case by long-time partner, Joe Pike.
The wind stripped the dead fronds that bunched beneath the crowns and tossed them into streets and yards and onto cars."Out of all the books I've read so far, this one most follows a traditional mystery format.
In fact, I'm not sure how much of the Joe backstory is actually known by Elvis.
I don't know if I can say I enjoyed the direction Elvis' and Lucy's relationship took, but it felt largely organic, reminding me of their first encounters in Voodoo River.Overall, an enjoyable, diverting read.
Krantz, with his ties to Joe Pike's past, made him one of the most interesting, even though he's a huge tool.
For the first time in the series, I found Elvis and Lucy's relationship believable, maybe because it was coming apart.
Joe and Elvis's relationship is still far more believable, as was Elvis' despair in the last thirty or so pages of the book, wondering if Pike was alive and if Lucy was still his.That's about all I can say without revealing too much.
L.A. Requiem is the best book yet in the Elvis Cole series.
Elvis is shocked when he finds wealthy Frank Garcia treating Joe like a son and begging him to find his missing daughter Karen.
The two detectives start looking, but the LAPD quickly shows up to break the news that Karen was murdered.Frank uses all his money and political juice to get Elvis and Joe into the police investigation so they can make sure the cops are doing everything possible, but the lead detective is an old enemy of Joe’s.
Things quickly get messy.This another high quality story about Elvis and Joe, and Crais gets personal this time out.
Crais wisely eschews the formula of his last seven books and does not have best bud private eyes Elvis Cole and Joe Pike stumbling into a mystery that eventually leads them into several gunfights with the stereotyped criminal gang of your choice.
But my bitching aside, the real achievement of this book is that Crais decided it was time to quit playing off how much of a mysterious badass Joe Pike is and finally let's the reader get several long, hard looks behind those shades Pike's always wearing.Even though the novel is narrated (mostly) by series lead Elvis Cole, this book is as much Pike's as it is his.
According to a blurb, Robert Crais is the descendant of Ross MacDonald, who is the literary heir to James Cain, who is the direct inheritor of Raymond Chandler's crown.
James Ellroy is the heir to Chandler's position.
Everyone else is just writing some genre fiction, like Chandler Ellroy is creating art of the the dirt and shit that make up Los Angeles.
I'd agree that these other guys maybe are the heirs to Dashiell Hammett, a fine writer but not someone who really makes books fucking sing.
Maybe I shouldn't have started with the 8th book in the series.
While this does provide a nice glimpse into Pikes formative years, a rather muddled, long, drawn-out ending fails to enhance this story, almost to the point of depression. 6 of 10 stars
Loved this 8th book of his Elvis Cole series! My favourite of the series so far!
And now, my brother David gives me #8 in a series.) Well, you'd better believe I'm going to read the first seven and probably any others that he writes.To me, Crais' writing is crisper than Wambaugh's and right up there with Connolly's (my favorite).
I was only a peripheral witness in a fraud case, but when Crais describes those cold blue eyes and that humorless expression, I see that FBI agent in my mind's eye--time traveling right back, coincidentally enough, to Los Angeles.
The best novel by Robert Crais that I've read so far. We get background on the stone face behind the shades otherwise known as Joe Pike plus a finely done story that also features Elvis Cole. Typically well written although you can easily tell twice near the end of the book who is and isn't going to buy the farm. The verbal exchanges between the cops are practically worth the price of the book alone. If you haven't read anything previously by the author this is an excellent place to start. 4 1/2 stars.
L.A. Requiem is the book in which Robert Crais elevated his game from being simply a great mystery writer to a great writer.
Like its predecessors, Requiem has a good plot: a woman from Elvis' partner, Joe Pike's past is murdered, and Joe and Elvis are tasked with finding the killer.
It is this element that makes the book so good.The character of Joe Pike has always been a highly original and entertaining one.
Friendship, revenge, humiliation and forbidden love are tied up in the events of the book in ways that make the reader really care about the characters.
L.A. Requiem is not only a good mystery, it works as art.
An older Crais that I missed somewhere along the line. It was great reading and actually gave the reader some so Joe Pike's background. The plot is well constructed and fascinating. Cole and Pike are as noir as one could hope. The LA cops (Robbery/Homicide) are as difficult and less than likable as one would expect. Cole and Pike do solve the case, but how engrossing the process is!
Man, this one got really personal for Elvis and Joe and had me on the edge of my seat.Joe gets called into help look for a missing old girlfriend.
Slowly Elvis gets some help from one of the cops.
But this help brings new problems.Elvis runs into issues with Lucy too along the way.
I found myself getting mad at Lucy, she kept playing the "girl" card, wanting things to be about her and got mad when Elvis didn't pick her.
Elvis was also disappointed with Lucy in that she couldn't understand why he kept leaving to "do the right thing".
An old girlfriend of Joe Pike's is missing, and her father asks Joe and Elvis to help find her.
She's found - dead - and the hunt is on.
The question is it a serial killer or murder for a reason?All the boy's jobs are dangerous, but Crais ups the ante with jail time for one or both of our heroes a distinct possibility, because of a decades-long dispute between Joe and a higher up in the police department.A good buddy story, with Elvis having to choose between helping his best friend, and his love interest transplanted from Louisiana.
Robert Crais gets you with his terse writing and his humane characters. Crime fiction at its soulful best.
Over the years I've read all of the previous books in the series and enjoyed them all - Elvis Cole is a great character, very distinctive and quirky, not your usual private detective fare.
In this book you get under the hood so to speak, finding out why he is the way he is and how he got to where he is today.If you've read previous Elvis Cole novels then you should definitely read this, hopefully you will agree with me that it is his best yet.
Life is going well for Elvis, his girlfriend Lucy relocated from New Orleans to LA and their relationship is progressing until a call from Joe Pike.
An old friend hires them to find his missing daughter who was also a girlfriend of Joe's when he was a cop with LAPD.
The book gives a lot of history on the mysterious Joe Pike, his youth and his reasons for leaving LAPD.
It also lays the background for a lot of resentment of Joe by some members of law enforcement.
All of this leads to Joe being framed for murder and Elvis having to choose between his friend and his girlfriend.
Had Robert Crais, in general, and L.A. Requiem, in particular, recommended to me by several authors. It did not disappoint. If you're a fan of hard boiled detective fiction - this is a book and series well worth checking out. Really dug it.
4 stars for the Joe parts.
2 stars for the Elvis parts.
Some plot issues were not well thought out.This is book 8 in the Elvis Cole series with two main characters Elvis and Joe Pike.
The Elvis parts were done in first person.
The Joe parts were done in third person and were excellent.
I would have preferred the entire book be third person.I had a minor problem with two characters: Eugene Dirsh and Edward Deej.
Another problem is described in Spoiler below.
Genre: mystery suspense, PI mystery.SERIES:I’ve read the following books in the Elvis Cole series.2 ½ stars.
Officer Samantha Dolan: Color her hostile and bitchy, displaying not a single redeeming quality over the course of the story.Elvis Cole: Color him enamored of her anyway [eye roll].From relatively minor points, like [spoiler]a PD mail clerk being able to secret a shotgun out of the evidence room,[/spoiler] to major ones, like [spoiler]Cole’s obstruction of justice charge and subsequent license forfeiture being reversed with the snap of a tortilla magnate’s fingers,[/spoiler] to the real whopper, [spoiler]where Pike takes several shots from a .357 at point blank range, yet manages to leave the house and drive away,[/spoiler] the story is fraught with implausibilities that are, evidently, easily overlooked by fans of the series.While I might read another Robert Crais book, if I happened across it, as I did this one, for my next crime-fic fix, I would much prefer the superior writing of Michael Connelly, or for some hard-core crime, James Ellroy.
Elvis Cole and Joe Pike are great friends when Pike is called to find the missing ex girlfriend for her Father Frank Garcia he makes Cole come along.
Men who find her come across her in a wooded area next to where she ran for exercise.
one of the men who found her Mr. Dersh becomes a prime suspect by the police.
Dersh is murdered in his home and Joe Pike is identified by a witness as the killer.
Excellent character development we learn more about Joe Pike in this book.
I enjoyed the book it was a good read.
Elvis Cole and Joe Pike are asked to find Karen Garcia, a former girlfriend of Pike’s.
Unfortunately, her body turns up, and Cole and Pike find themselves working the case.
How will the events of the past influence the current investigation?I’ve long complained that the main characters, especially Pike, felt too flat as characters.
This book goes a long way to filling us in on Pike, although the result was a little cliché, which may just be a factor of the book’s age.
The love letter to LA at the end is beautifully written, especially for those of us who live here.
Best Joe Pike yet. Learn alot. Anything else I say would be a spoiler
L.A. Requim, which is the 8th Elvis Cole novel, is what landed him as an author that defied all genres and in it outsurpassed even the legendary Ross Macdonald.Enough about Crais, the guy's good.
Use him too much and you wonder why he isn't the main character (we know Crais has struggled with this as he produced 4 separate novels featuring Pike as the hero); use him too little and you start wondering why the big guns aren't being pulled out by Elvis.
We are never more beautiful than when we are burning.Like I said, it really came together following the publication of his 8th Elvis Cole novel.
With L.A. Requiem, we’re about midway through Robert Crais’s Elvis Cole detective series.
The nicest person in the world happens to be a detective by the name of Elvis Cole, which is an advantageous occupation because it allows him to spread his niceness over the downtrodden and victimized of Las Angeles like a gooey yet healing layer of Nutella on a fresh croissant.
Seriously, it’s no joke about how nice Elvis Cole is.
Karen was Joe Pike’s ex-lover, and her distraught father (Frank Garcia, the successful tortilla superstar) asks Joe and Elvis to monitor the police investigation.
Without wishing to offend either author, LA Requiem reminded a lot of Michael Connelly's LA stories, especially those concerning Harry Bosch.
The writing style, setting and focus seemed very similar to me - LA, Robbery-Homicide, serial killer, investigators who are Vietnam vets.
Crais paints a good sense of place, the characters are well penned, and the story builds to a nice climax.
The Samantha Dolan character didn't quite seem to ring true, especially in her quest for Cole.
A fine book with appropriately crafted twists.
The story of murder and the mystery behind it is also quite gripping.
It is like a Tamil movie, all shots fired and the hero gets hit, but still gets up to kill the villain and then disappear into the desert and so on.
Come on Crais, you can do better than that.But still, I sort of liked the book.
Written well, and there is a stage when it absolutely grips you and you don't realize the pages flying by.
That is when you know you have hit a good one.
Probably my favorite Cole/Pike novel to date.
The detectives are retained by successful businessman whose daughter dated Pike when he was a police officer - the daughter is dead and Cole/Pike try to find the culprit.
oh, and Lucy's in this one and the only thing I can say about her is that, she's supposed to be really smart and all and she's totally thrown by Cole's job and the things he and Pike have had to do in their past as well as their current jobs?
However, when I went back and read the series, I realized this book is far more then a quick ass piece of noir detective fiction.
This novel brings Joe Pike, Elvis' partner and protector, to the fore front.
Another great example of how Crais can take a near superhuman character, in this case Pike, and make him human, and actually create a viable world andf a viable reason for Pike to be the way he is.
A great novel, but be warned, the tone starts getting dark in this book, and only gets darker in the next two.
Elvis Cole is one of those characters that I like.
I especially love the sarcastic quips that he delivers in the book as he corresponds with the other characters in the book.
Joe Pike, Elvis' partner, is a tough dude who, we find out, has been through quite a lot in his life.
Now his partner must try to unwind the matter and solve the crime.The result of this book is quite a cliff hanger and the book never truly resolves, leaving the reader on the edge of their arm chair ready for the next book.
This one was lots of fun.
This is about the 7th of the series wherein Elvis Cole and Joe Pike are partners in a detective agency. It's good that I read this one first, because in it we discover Joe's past that causes him to be what he is. There's a faint resemblance between this series and the Parker series, but the action in this one isn't as humorous and the book takes longer to read. The funniest biplay was when Cole tells someone to "call me Elvis," and the other character says, "I don't think I can do that."
