https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38503.Tales_of_Ordinary_Madness
i was first introduced to this book in the bathroom of a one-night-stand's house. i tried to delay the sex part, because i was actually more interested in the book than the guy but i was eventually overtaken. nonetheless, i went and bought the book the following week.
Bukowski is in the form of his life here.
Every single story hits you hard.
Basically Bukowski has just one story.
And this wonderful line ".....doldrums of mechanical people in a mechanical act, trying to tickle their cement souls back into life with a spurt of come".
:):):) And there is some severe criticism of dull poets like William Shakespeare.
But there is never a dull moment in any of these stories.
They are relentlessly pessimistic and viciously funny and they all make you want to quit your job or runaway from home.
Dangerous literature should make you want to do those things.
Χωρις πολλα λογια, Μπουκοφσκι σε μεγαλα κεφια.ενα απο τα καλυτερα βιβλια του που εχω διαβασει με απολαυστικα διηγηματα, γεματα απο ολα αυτα τα στοιχεια που τον χαρακτηριζουν..
The first time I saw Bukowski's photo, for a moment I thought he was the prolific Greek poet Yannis Ritsos and then I realised he was not.
He is Charles Bukowski.So, I won't say more about this book but I will leave you with a random extract that illustrates pretty well what I said about his writing:
He describes a universe, where all things are wrong and where meaning of going on seems as dubious as the claim that one can come out of this life still being sane.And yet, there are too many familiarities in what Bukowski says.
Or such is the feeling Bukowski leaves his reader with anyway.And the speech, the pauses, the choice of words.
All these things just so happen to fall into the right places so that they can speak directly to the reader, so that the reader would be finally able to understand what is wrong with this world and that, really, none of us will leave from here alive.
Even though I am a big fan of Bukowski's novels I think his Strength was definitely in short stories
boh!)a volte "sconcia" , che riesce a farti respirare a fondo il tanfo dell'alcool e dello squallore e dell'emarginazione e della solitudine...anche se non mancano sprazzi di poesia.Il libro inizia con questo racconto:La piú bella donna della cittàCass era la piú giovane e la piú bella di 5 sorelle.
Mezzindiana, aveva un corpo stranamente flessuoso, focoso era e come di serpe, con due occhi che proprio ci dicevano.
Era come uno spirito incastrato in una forma che però non riusciva a contenerlo.
Ma Cass ne aveva da vendere, di cervello e di spirito.
I couldn't get into this book. I really liked Post Office but this one left me cold. I felt that the quality was patchy - a few of the stories I really liked, but some appeared to me to be dashed off at speed or written just to shock.
Como antología de relatos, los hay mejores y los hay peores. Pero los buenos brillan mucho.
Unlike his other, pseudo-autobiographical works, or his other short story collections, this one was harder to read than most.
In this collection, Bukowski delivers his usual subject matters in his usual style.
By contemporary standards, Bukowski would be a misogynist, a racist, a tramp, a drunk, and a generally unappealing person.
And Bukowski was, undoubtedly, a great writer.
In a way, Bukowski’s writing shows what he always said – he hated people, society, ideals – he wanted to be left alone.
He gave up on the world, and reemerged honest in a way many other writers could not.
Muy pocos relatos me gustaron de este libro. No obstante, volveré a intentarlo con este autor.
by no means am i proud to say i can relate to this poet and frankly i could have happily gone along with the sad story written by some arrogant masicistic being they call god whom is the author to my life with out ever running into this sonofabitches book, but as freud said there are no accidents.
(forgive me fo being so cliche) that being said i still to this day find my self craving (as i do all things that are bad for me) more of the incredibly enlightening yet disturbing literature written by charles bukowski.
Never really read anything like that. It`s dark (although usually, humorously) and pessimistic, with Bukowski (or his fictional alter egos) always making sure to hit rock bottom. There is no real connection between the stories (which are not all equal in quality, with some being better than others) except for the main motives- drinking, swearing, sex and the occasional law breaking or in other words, the life of a drunk and a dirty old man. This is not for the faint of heart!
Never really read anything like that. It`s dark (although usually, humorously) and pessimistic, with Bukowski (or his fictional alter egos) always making sure to hit rock bottom. There is no real connection between the stories (which are not all equal in quality, with some being better than others) except for the main motives- drinking, swearing, sex and the occasional law breaking or in other words, the life of a drunk and a dirty old man. This is not for the faint of heart!
Bukowski non si fa scrupoli nel raccontarci come fa sesso (in tutti i modi ed in ogni momento), come si ubriaca (sempre), come si svuota l'intestino (peggio di una mucca...), come dorme (in continuazione), come vive alla giornata.
Sforzandosi un po' di capire cosa stia dietro l'apparenza (oscena, sconclusionata, alcolica e anche sgrammaticata), si nota una certa ironia di fondo, una visione delle cose cupa e pessimistica, un voler mostrare ogni aspetto misero della vita per quello che è, senza possibilità di riscatto.
Bukowskiego wolę zdecydowanie w długich formach powieściowych.
Jego opowiadania to często bardziej felietony, takie lekko bełkotliwe obserwacje zdegenerowanego życia przez zdegenerowanego człowieka.
Takie miałem uczucie czytając niektóre opowiadania z tego tomu.
Ale jednocześnie co jakiś czas zdarzają się absolutne perełki surrealistycznego, dosadnego humoru, które czyta się z wielką przyjemnością.
W tym wypadku były to "Odsiadka z wrogiem...", "Dom dla czubków...", "Fioletowy jak irys", "Zwierzęta napluły mi do zupy" czy "Koc".
I - jak zawsze u Bukowskiego - co jakiś czas trafia się na zdanie, które wbija w fotel.
I czasem takie zdanie robi całe opowiadanie.
I czasem dla takiego zdania warto je przeczytać.
This was my introduction to Bukowski. A friend loaned me this book after reading a short story I wrote, telling me that I would probably enjoy it.  As I read it, a strange feeling came over me. It was the feeling of excitement knowing that I was reading something brilliant mixed with the feeling that I got when I saw Hustler Magazine for the first time. I think it describes Bukowski's work perfectly. His words are both beautiful and debauched at the same time. Still one of my favorite books.
Aunque estoy convencido de que hay lecturas positivas que te ayudan ha vivir, y hay lecturas negativas que te oscurecen el acto existencial, creo que es necesario mirar en ambos sentidos. Hay que ser higiénicos y hay que embarrarse en lodo de vez en cuando. Bukowski es chapotear en fango: divertido, sarcástico, irónico, deprimente, destructivo, nada para tomarse en serio. La receta es la misma: pobreza, alcoholisimo, mujeres-carne, el heroísmo en el vacío existencial.
Ufff.... este libro ha sido una pasada....Bukowski puede golpearte, asquearte, emocionarte, deprimirte y hacerte reír , todo de una vez... ha de ser por eso que un escritor maldito...Hay algunos relatos muy flojos.... pero hay otros que son notables...Y uno en particular, que fue muy difícil de digerir...la pedofilia es un tema complicadísimo para mí....y no puedo con él
Eterna poveste a inculturii traducatorilor. In cazul nostru o traducatoare care nu a auzit de Elixirul dragostei de Donizetti si il traduce prin Elixirul iubirii, la fel, in loc de Rapsodia albastra - Rapsodia in albastru. Ma indispun cumplit genul asta de rateuri. Editura este Polirom, banuiesc ca e aceeasi traducere.
Perché dietro il cinismo scanzonato e lo sfoggio eccessivo e gratuito di volgarità, si percepisce un disagio profondo, un acuto malessere derivante dall’intolleranza non solo di qualunque disciplina, ma perfino di ogni più comune norma del vivere quotidiano.
A ben vedere, il suo atteggiamento è anche elitario e snobistico, per il fatto che vivere come un barbone per lui, a differenza della schiera di emarginati di cui si circonda, non è una necessità, ma una volontà affermata in spregio alle convenzioni e alle ipocrisie; uno sberleffo ai dettami di uno stile di vita che mirerebbe a inquadrare ogni individuo entro schemi prestabiliti.
And I have to say in terms of exposing his mind and philosophizing about various topics this book for me it's the one that is most well written (among the ones I have read so far of course).
Weed for Bukowski is a phony drug and how he explains why is just fucking funny; there is a weird story about a girl that owned a zoo; I loved the one about his dreams and how he dreams about trying to sleep in his room exactly how it was before (I used to have this so many times it was insane); The Zen marriage is a very very good one;I never knew that Bukowski was in a looney bin before (even though it's perfectly plausible);This title: Cunt and Kant and a Happy home - genius!I'm sure if I'll read my underlined quotes I'll come up with more.
He writes well, this much is obvious, but I really just didn't care about reading what felt like the same 'story' over and over again.I enjoyed his writerly voice, the tone of the prose, the attitude of it all, it was so dirty and real as you would expect of somebody influence so obviously by Ernest Hemingway but, and maybe it is because of these expectations that I didn't love it, I was expecting more, something to make me want to keep turning the pages, plot maybe?
books he’d collected canvassing the shop for shit laying around.
but it would be insulting to say that the book only satisfied on these lowbrow levels, more importantly, chris had a thematic appreciation for this clever shit.
sure, he still nearly pissed himself as Buke recounted episodes of scrubbing pigeon shit, miserable sexcapades, and uncontrollable puking, but this might have been the first book that actually spoke to chris as a person.
chris still thought that this shit was hilarious, perhaps the printed panacea for a dismal day.
of the 30+ stories within Tales of Ordinary Madness, chris really only thought that 10 of them were really A-list material during this recent reading.
"I walked around the block twice, passed 200 people and failed to see a human being.""This birth thing.
And this death thing.
Seeing all that life that would first turn to hate, to dementia, to neuroses, to stupidity, to fear, to murder, to nothing - nothing in life and nothing in death." "Living was easy – all you had to do was let go.
Let the other men fight the wars, let the other men go to jail.""The human race had always disgusted me.
Povestirile lui Bukowski nu-l mai au în prim-plan pe Chinaski, ci cu totul alte personaje, inclusiv pe unul... Bukowski, dar cu același tipic: băutură (anti-droguri!), femei, arta de a scrie, singurătate și dorința de a reuși (oriunde, chiar și la cursele de cai).Este clar că Bukowski nu poate plăcea oricui, pentru că ascunde și multă mizerie, și singurătate, și misoginism, și duritate sau violență. Dar talentul său este neîndoielnic și veți ieși schimbați din această experiență.În plus, nu e de citit pe plajă că nu știi când te trezești cu o erecție :D
I'll read those last pages one day, but I knew from half way in that this was a five star book.
Though, of course, the madness isn't ordinary because Bukowski wasn't like most people.He drinks his way through the book, offending the world around him, offending himself...it reads like a bewildered kid trying to figure out why he has suddenly been let out of a cupboard, and instead of the punch in the face he was expecting to receive, he instead gets applause from a world of strangers.
Some people don't like Bukowski, but part of his beauty is he doesn't want you to like him.
I've read a handful of Bukowski novels before and I've liked them even though some of their honesty makes me cringe now and again.This is a selection of short stories, mostly autobiographical, and I found them delightful and easy to digest.
Little blurbs of thought and ponderings of things instead of forcing a long story where one does not exist.I found this book to be heartfelt, braggish, intriguing, thought-provoking, appalling, upsetting, and many other buzz words.While I'm sure there are many fabrications, Bukowski's honesty and unapologetic documentation of some of his day to day living is pretty eye-opening stuff, even if he processes it through a filter of a narrative.
I was looking for something new (to me) in the early 90's and some dweeb in a Brentano's recommended this to me because Bukowski has died months before. I hate discovering something great just after the author has died. I also hate people saying how great some author (or artist) was after they die, but they never had much to say while the author was still alive. Anyway, this is one of his two greatest novels.
“El malvado” es un terrible, violento y perturbador texto narrado por un pedófilo que viola de forma descarnada a una pequeña menor de 5 años frente a la mirada incrédula de sus amigos del patio de juegos; es una narración explícita, dañina, asquerosa, malsana, podrida, inolvidable.
Bukowski explica que toda mujer es una “máquina de follar” mientras su prostituta robot se enamora, se rebela y cercena el miembro del siguiente en la fila.Lo contenidos de Bukowski son una mirada al abismo, a lo rezagos de una sociedad que apremia, que obliga al esfuerzo, que condena al ocio, que sataniza el placer, que hipócrita, conduce a la autodestrucción.
Turiu pripažinti, kad tikrai užtrukau, kol šią knygą baigiau.
Jei ne užklupusi nesiliaujanti nemiga, kuri prilygta lengvam ,,beprotybės" jausmui, šios Bukio kūrinių kolekcijos gal ir apskritai nebūčiau daugiau į rankas paėmusi.
Nesutinku, kad būtent šioje knygoje atsiskleidžia visas autoriaus talentas.
Kaip visada, rašytojo stilius nepriekaištingai maištingas, laužantis visas gramatikos bei išpuoselėtos estetikos taisykles, kas mane asmeniškai nepaprastai žavi, tačiau ,,sueis" tikrai ne kiekvienam.
Trumpai ir aiškiai - knyga nėra niekam tikusi, tačiau ir ne pati geriausia, ką teko skaityti iš Bukowskio repertuaro Jei norisi ,,susipažinti" su autoriumi bei jo kūryba, siūlčiau tą pažintį pradėti nuo ,,Pašto".
