https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7875439-a-perfect-day-for-bananafish
He never asked Sybil to look at 'his bananafish' as some ignorant reviewer posted.
Muriel is not like Seymour at all, she's superficial and centered around materialistic things.
Seymour longs to regain the innocence that he had in childhood, the innocence he lost while growing up and leaving to war.
However, Sybil claims she saw the bananafish.
This reminded Seymour of the childhood innocence and imagination, where magic still exists and bananafish roam the sea.
Seymour is the bananafish.
So full of contempt he could not fit into the adult world.
Nine stories: A Perfect Day for Bananafish, J.D. SalingerNine Stories (1953) is a collection of short stories by American fiction writer J. D. Salinger published in April 1953. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یس و یکم ماه ژانویه سال 1999 میلادیداستان کوتاه: یک روز خوش برای موزماهی؛ را نخستین بار احمد گلشیری به فارسی ترجمه و در سال 1364 هجری خورشیدی در مجموعه داستان کوتاه: نه داستان یا دلتنگیهای نقاش خیابان چهل و هشتم بنشسته استمتن داستان: نود و هفت تبلیغاتچی نیویورکی توی هتل بودند، و خطوط تلفنی راه دور را چ
یا توی اتاقش؛ برای بچه گداها عروسک درست می‌کنه.؛ جوان که حالا دمر دراز کشیده بود، دست‌هایش را مشت کرد، روی هم گذاشت و چانه‌ اش را روی آن‌ها تکیه داد گفت: از چیزهای دیگه‌ ای حرف بزن سی‌بل.
جوان مچ پاهای او را رها کرد، دستهایش را جمع کرد و یک‌طرف صورتش را روی ساعد راستش گذاشت، گفت: خوب، این چیزها پیش می‌آید، سی‌بل.
Easily one of the greatest short stories I've ever read. When I can spend more time thinking about the text than actually reading it, I know I've found something special.
"I see you're looking at my feet," he said to her when the car was in motion."I beg your pardon?" said the woman."I said I see you're looking at my feet.""I beg your pardon. I happened to be looking at the floor," said the woman, and faced the doors of the car."  "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" contrasts the world of children, imaginative, curious, pure, and innocent with the world of adults materialistic, selfish, shallow. As you can see, the story glorifies children and to some degree condemns
It even explores the idea that children are somehow more spiritually advanced than adults, more capable of seeing with the soul rather than the eyes.It features a young man who has returned from his service in World War II and is experiencing what today we would call post-traumatic stress disorder.
The story makes us wonder what really counts as "insane," even calling into question the "normal" conversations between "sane" adults.Salinger wrote "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" when he was highly interested in Zen Buddhism.
This isolation is physical, mental, and spiritual – Seymour finds himself "alone" in more ways than one.In "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," sex is one of the material pursuits that poses a threat to the well-being of the soul.
Salinger’s heroes are most like him in this regard—outsiders who are dissatisfied with society and therefore remove themselves from it by either self-seclusion (like Salinger himself) or suicide.Muriel Glass waits in her Florida hotel room for the operator to put her call through to her mother.
She tells her mother that Seymour is on the beach by himself.Throughout “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” characters struggle to communicate with one another, and each attempt is fraught with difficulty.
Seymour is entirely unable to communicate with other people at the resort, preferring to sit alone playing the piano or spend time at the beach rather than try to enter into a society in which he feels like an outsider.
خمس قصص غير كافية للحكم على تجربة الكابة القصصية عند سالنجر، لكنها كافية للتعرف على أسلوبه الذي وجدت فيه اهتمامه بالتفاصيل الوصفية والحوارات في الوقت نفسه. لاحظت أيضا اهتمامه بنهايات قصصه التي جاء بعضها صادماً وبعضها مفتوحاً.القصة الأولى في المجموعة كانت الأجمل والأميز في رأيي. الترجمة بشكل عام كانت جميلة. أنصح بقراءة المجموعة لمن لديه رغبة في التعرف على إنتاج هذا الكاتب الذي أثار الضجة بروايته الوحيدة وقصصه القليلةالتي نشرها في حياته، وعزلته التي اختارها للكتابه حتى وفاته، ووصيته بنشر أعماله بعد وفاته بدءاً من هذه السنة.
I remember the day I read this book. It was hot outside and I was at achool and out teacher made us read an excerpt. I've never really liked books that I was forced to read but this one reached out to me so when I got home I got on the computer, found a copy and read it.It made me think, and that's what I love about literature. The main is complex and the whole thing is so sad. I LOVE IT. If you're debating reading this, trust me, you should.
THE protagonist Seymour Glass has been scarred from his experiences in World War II and is suffering from psychological distress.
He is a total misfit in a world that seems to be guided by greed and materialism.
Seymour’s bananafish could also be an allusion to the snobbish class which is a slave to capitalism and goes on spending sprees, ending up with hoarding things they don’t really need.
The ending which takes place in the hotel bedroom is bound to take you by surprise like it did me.
I want to be clear -- just because I loved this one doesn't mean I understood it.
There are MUCH better reviews that are able to deconstruct this story and explain the themes and characters in ways that I'm simply incapable of doing.
I absolutely hated The Catcher in the Rye -- although I keep thinking maybe I should read it yet again and see if I've changed my mind about it -- so this definitely isn't a case of just being a fan of Salinger.
But I may very well look up the other Glass family stories after reading this.
fucking shit, now it makes sensedamn
: سیبل کارپنتر که با مادرش در هتل جا گرفته بود، گفت " من باز شیشه میبینم .شما باز شیشه میبینین؟ "دختر گفت : میخوای بری تو آب، باز شیشه ببینی؟ باز خانواده ی عجیب گلاس !سیمور مثل تمام موز ماهی ها تب موز میگیرد و میمیرد!به شعر هایکویی فکر میکنم که در اتاقی که سیمور خودکشی کرد باقی ماندهدختر کوچک توی هواپیما /که سر عروسکش را چرخاند/ تا به من نگاه کند
Came across this as a reference in The Storied Life of A.J. FikryLike Mr Fikry, I'm also fond of short stories. And Catcher in the Rye was very amusing.... and so decided to give it a go.Unfortunately I didn't get it :(Alright, I did enjoy that phone call conversation, the beach, the writing style and all.... believing it is leading somewhere. Was it?Guess you have to read deep between the lines to know where its headed.... or whether the title makes some sense?Not for me. This was the first story in Nine Stories and I'm not going to continue it.
He had Sybil look at his "bananafish" and then he shot himself...in front of his wife.I could postulate that Seymour suffered PTSD from The War. I could make the stretch and say that Muriel was superficial.
I could say that Sybil was a symbol of innocence, but then again, I would have to come back to the idea that Seymour violated that innocence.
"I could" analyze this story from many different perspectives and I could postulate many theories, but in the end, I am a bit creeped out and I feel like I need a shower.
Salinger is quite possibly my favorite author for this reason: it's easy to read the story and know what happened, but upon asking, "Why?", the reader is cast into an ocean of thought, questioning every sentence provided in the extremely concise story, in an attempt to put together the fragmented ideas that are the last few hours of Seymour Glass' life.Also worth noting is that Nine Stories is the last major work I've read by Salinger, so, going into it, I was already familiar with Seymour, Buddy, Franny, Zooey, Walt, Waker, Boo-Boo and the rest.
I didn't get it.I'll be the first to admit that.
J.D. Salinger and I just never hit it off.
I can feel the tempo of Salinger's writing, but it refuses to 'click' for me.
I can understand why people would think that this speaks for an angsty, existentalist (sorry, butchered word there) culture.
Perhaps I'm just not a membeer of that culture.
I could feel that the whole situation between Myrtle (??) and her mother was maybe a metaphor for something very deep and important.
Or maybe THAT was the point...Yeah, I just didn't get it.
My senior year of high school, I got on a JD Salinger kick and read everything I could find. The Norwegian exchange student that was staying with us and I would sit out on the deck that spring, making ourselves Tom Collins's and reading Salinger. (at least I read Salinger. I don't remember what he read. Do you remember, Thor??)
The road leading to suicide is filled with deepest darkest despair, with a couple of stuffed dogs strewn along the curb maybe, but the final act is performed in a moment of clarity. In sun-kissed primary colours.
به نظرم داستان دو بخش داشت و نتونستم این دو بخش رو به هم ربط بدم.به صورت کلی از نوشته ها و قلم سلینجر لذت می برم
I will be honest, the first pass through this story led me to believe that Seymour was sexually interested in children and as a result decided to kill himself.
Once they both get into the water and Sybil is vulnerably on a raft controlled by Seymour, I felt a definite tension build in the story.
I think he realized he really was.I honestly don't have a problem with Seymour being a pedophile.
I can see that too, but I do think it ignores the implied sexual nuances of the story.
It was a bright sunny day.Seymour Glass came from a war and he is on a vacation along with his wife.
Muriel Glass, his wife, is aware that he has been mentally unstable since the war yet she does not do anything about it.
He tells her a story about a Bananafish who tend to swim into holes and eat all the bananas inside it.
When he got into his and Muriel's room, he lay beside her and (view spoiler)[shot himself in the head.
(hide spoiler)]Seymour Glass is the Bananafish.
He has taken so much from the war: tragedy, sadness, and grief that like the Bananafish, he (view spoiler)[died.
I thought that it was deep.
I love the unseen commentary in this short story.
When I had to read the first page of this short story, I thought that Muriel was a murdered by killing her husband - the rings that were in the bathroom, her left hand stretched away, & removing the stain out of her dress vs.
some in my class saw her as some sort of a harlett that was paid for her services however, that wasn't the case at all.
I sort of feel sorry for Seymour.
Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed this short story.
مع أخطاء املائية شنيعة و متكررة باصرار غريب لا يتناسب مع وجود مصحح لغوي للعمل، ماذا صحح اذن؟!ربما كان عدم الترابط بين مشاهد العمل مقصود باعتباره رسم لخيالات مريض نفسي بالكلمات، ولكن هذا التفكك مع ضعف اللغة سببا مزيجا مزعجا للغاية.
فقط النهاية الصادمة و الغير متوقعة والتي لم تزد عن نصف صفحة مثلا هي ما جعل لهذا العمل اي قيمة على الاطلاق.
كان من الممكن طرح الفكرة في صورة قصة قصيرة بدون اللجوء لكل المشاهد التي تصور مواقف يعبر فيها البطل عن فحولة ضئيلة غالبا مشكوك فيها لا هدف لها و لا توظيف سوى محاولة التأكيد عليها خوفا من ضياعها!كلام فارغ مكتوب بلغة ضعيفة!
An Interesting short story, about a man who shoots himself after he tells a story about his so-called Bananafish to a young girl on a beach. Now, don't get me wrong, the girl DID NOT instigate the suicide if thats what you think.
This was actually recommended to me by Gabriel, and he was right -- this was the best short story I've ever read. This story forces you to read from the historical lens. Salinger compares his experiences in WWII and his post-traumatic stress to Seymour Glass' post-traumatic stress after coming back from the war. This book has many different themes as well. The bananafish, for instance, symbolized Seymour's emotions being built up and then eventually going away when he committed suicide.
أحببت طريقة السرد والأسلوب كثيراً فهيا مختلفة نوعاً ما عن الترتيب المنطقى للأحداث ولكن السرد بمشاهد من هنا وهناك بشكل منظم أمتعنى نهاية الرواية مرعبة فعلاً وغير متوقعة بالمرة لكن لم أحب التفاصيل الجنسيه بها الكتاب مجانى يمكنكم تحميله
بتحكي عن معاناة لفنان تشكيلي وتربية من وهو صغير قصرت فية وبالنسبالي رواية رائعة في نهايتها غير متوقعة والدليل علي كدة ان خلصتها في ساعتين بس
I feel terrible that I read the last line first it ruined that element of surprise. I was surprised at how well developed the characters were in 10 short pages.
Full disclosure: I’ve read this story because I’m watching Banana Fish anime and I need to know the connection between the anime and this short story.A Perfect Day for Bananafish is masterfully written.
The bananafish metaphor is simple yet effective.Thus being said, I’ve read this short story because I’m watching the anime.
(I haven’t read the manga so I don’t know.)Anyways, A Perfect Day for Bananafish hides an emotional and impactful punch under disguise of mundane and simple, leaving the reader breadcrumbs to figure out what happened and why.
Райт-Ковалёва), in the collection of short stories published in 2010 by Eksmo.
I know, I know, it is in Nine Stories. But before I get to the whole collection, let me just put it out here exclusively, to show how exquisite this short piece is.
I was particularly interested in this short story because I read Franny and Zooey, a book that centres around the Glass family. Seymour is a Glass, and is mentioned in the book. This, along with Franny and Zooey, go hand in hand. I will continue to read Nine Stories now, I just had to put my two pence in!
