https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365.Dirk_Gently_s_Holistic_Detective_Agency
Instead, I'll just share some quotes from this book that I especially loved, because Douglas Adams is the only author in the history of the world who is capable of creating them."'A horse?' he said again.
'You say there's a horse in your bathroom, and all you can do is stand there naming Beatles songs?'""Richard stood transfixed for moment or two, wiped his forehead again, and gently replaced the phone as if it were an injured hamster.
'So obvious that the only thing which prevented me from seeing the solution was the trifling fact that it was completely impossible.
I, however, do not like to eliminate the impossible.'"
I last read this when I was really young and was shortly getting off a fantastic kick of HHGttG wanting MORE, as, I assume, most people do when they get on a Douglas Adams kick.Like the other series, every page is filled with wonderfully witty and fascinating and wise (crack) quotes that will delight and amaze and generally blow most writing away by the sheer audacity.To think that Douglas Adams never considered himself a writer!
And of course us fans just snicker at that and keep reading.I admit to really liking this but not loving it as much as the Hitchhiker series.
Is it an audacious thing to say that Mr. Douglas Adams is hit or miss?Yes.
(Well, & not "audacious" really...)Good.
Here is a fun (and I mean FUN) book, rife with what is absurd and comical in certain sciences that dictate what the world is--I know my math teacher in high school was mad about him.
And it does seem as though there is an intended niche audience already built for this type of literature: more literary than, say, Piers Anthony but not character-driven, nor truly dearly dramatic.
When that type of mood actually finds me.
Still, there are only five “Hitchhiker's” books, excluding Eoin Colfer's  And Another Thing..., which—in all fairness—I have not read, but I am not that big a fan of Colfer's  Artemis Fowl, so the idea of a sequel by him is a nonstarter for me.So how does Dirk Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency compare to  The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy?
His ability to make intuitive leaps verges on being a superpower.Dirk Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency reminds me a little bit of Kurt Vonnegut's  Breakfast of Champions, another novel with different plotlines that seem to bear no relation to each other.

Especially eccentric Dirk Gently himself with his weirdness actually makes perfect sense - it's the world that is bonkers.Thus we end up with gems like the following (some of my favourite bits that I marked in the book):Electric Monks believed things for you, thus saving you what was becoming an increasingly onerous task, that of believing all the things the world expected you to believe.It is difficult to be sat on all day, every day, by some other creature, without forming an opinion about them.On the other hand, it is perfectly possible to sit all day, every day, on top of another creature and not have the slightest thought about them whatsoever.So two legs were held to be both more suitable and cheaper than the more normal primes of seventeen, nineteen or twenty-three; the skin the Monks were given was pinkish-looking instead of purple, soft and smooth instead of crenellated.
I am a firm believer that a bit of British humor is good for the soul...And I am quite American, in case you did not know...  “Don’t you understand that we need to be childish in order to understand? Only a child sees things with perfect clarity, because it hasn’t developed all those filters which prevent us from seeing things that we don’t expect to see?”   Douglas Adams has a highly quotable, laugh out loud writing style which I adore; I seem to remember a blurb describing this book as The Hit
Only a child sees things with perfect clarity, because it hasn’t developed all those filters which prevent us from seeing things that we don’t expect to see?”“Sir Isaac Newton, renowned inventor of the milled-edge coinand the catflap!”“The what?” said Richard.“The catflap!
It is a door within a door, you see, a…”“Yes,” said Richard, “there was also the small matter of gravity.”“Gravity,” said Dirk with a slightly dismissive shrug, “yes, there was that as well, I suppose.
Douglas Adams' underated masterpiece leads Dirk Gently from a search for a missing cat to unlocking the secrets of time travel and saving the human race from total extinction.
I've subsequently re-read this novel countless times and it never fails to entertain, I'm still finding references to literature and popular culture that I've previously missed.
That a novel can be re-read despite the reader knowing what is about to happen is a testement to any novel but this one can be re-read with a suspition that something different will happen this time!
From the title you would think this is possibly about a detective agency. Well there is an agency but they don’t detect things in the normal matter. You should probably guess that since it is a Douglas Adams book and when has he written anything really normal (I mean that in the best way).Nope for this book  “Let's think the unthinkable, let's do the undoable. Let us prepare to grapple with the ineffable itself, and see if we may not eff it after all.” There is craziness, absurdity, the intercon
Well there is an agency but they don’t detect things in the normal matter.
There were times I flat out belly laughed at some of the general obscurity of it.I will never think of Sir Isaac Newton the same again – or Bach but that is a different matter.
It is a door within a door, you see.”I read both the Dirk Gently books years ago and they are some of the few books that I come back to years later and love for different reasons all over again.
If you liked The Hitchhiker's Guide but thought it could do with fewer spaceships, try this.
If you're shaking your head in bafflement, thinking "Fewer spaceships?
If you like things that are good, try this.
On the other hand, I am pretty sure my best friend hated it, and she does often like things that are good, so maybe it's not for everyone.
But try it anyway."He was rounder than the average undergraduate and wore more hats.
That is to say, there was just the one hat which he habitually wore, but he wore it with a passion that was rare in one so young.
The reason I'm telling you this is that I was slightly let down by the book, having seen (a version of) Dirk Gently in action before reading about him.
There just wasn't enough of the detective in the book, while he (both versions) is such an interesting character.
But I think it's safe to say that those of us who can't wait until the next Doctor Who episode (September!) will certainly enjoy Dirk Gently's company.
And a good knowledge of the content and composition of Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Kubla Khan and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner is essentially required to understand many of the jokes and much of the plot.Because, as it turns out, the linchpin upon which history turns, upon which depends the whole of human history before and to come, is the fact that Coleridge never wrote the second, altogether stranger, part of Kubla Khan.This discovery is the culmination of an intricate, madcap skein of detecting into the interconnectedness of all things by "holistic detective" Dirk Gently, computer programmer Richard MacDuff and his ghostly employer Gordon Way, an Electric Monk, a rogue Time Lord turned Cambridge professor (the book started life as a Doctor Who script), a horse in the bathroom and a thousand thousand slimy things.
But would you have guessed intricately plotted?Adams, who practically invented the vein of British literary humor now being minted hand-over-fist by Terry Pratchett, is in fine form with this novel, his major work outside the Hitchhiker's universe.
At the beginning of the story, we see our poor schlepp of a protagonist working his way over a couch which has gotten wedged in his stairwell.
Cute bit of physical humor, and in a lesser book, that would be the end of it.
To prove the theory of the interconnectedness of everything Ill grant 3-4, possibly 4 star. I have learned a lot. How the dodos became extinct, how to computer simulate the movements of a sofa while it gets stuck in a stairway and how an abacus can work in mysterious ways.Not least have I come to know the origin of the albatros in The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, a thing that has puzzled me for billions of years.Im still very much in doubt when it comes to the death of Gordon Way, but it just ma
I have learned a lot.
How the dodos became extinct, how to computer simulate the movements of a sofa while it gets stuck in a stairway and how an abacus can work in mysterious ways.Not least have I come to know the origin of the albatros in The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, a thing that has puzzled me for billions of years.I´m still very much in doubt when it comes to the death of Gordon Way, but it just may be connected to the extinction of the dodo, as everything is interconnected.
Well, except just maybe not the Electric Monk, who is quite disconnected.
Those were the words of Zarathustra, who, though not mentioned in the text, would be interconnected as well based alone on his holistic views.
The classic, beloved, brilliant, wacky Douglas Adams, with his penchant for paradoxes and meaningful nonsense and his totally absurd humor. It would be hard for me to chose what I loved most from this book, but I think it was the decision-making program that allows you to justify practically any outcome by back-tracing from the desired result - that could come quite handy, no?But apart from all this, the book is quite well thought out, with a self-consistent detective story and an imaginitive and complex plot.Douglas Adams never disappoints.
Robot monks, ghosts, murder and add a bit of The Doctor. But since it is Douglas Adams, don't forget the towel.
En la ficción hay algunos recursos que son díficiles de trabajar, a mi parecer uno de los más complicados son los viajes en el tiempo, no importa cuanto humor le imprimas, y vaya que Adams le pone mucho, este puede llevar a estrellarte y aquí simplemente no funciona, no tanto porque este mal manejado sino porque terminá sin desarrollarse, le faltán páginas para hacer que realmente sirva al punto de que se siente como si el libro hubiese terminado a la mitad de la historia.
Al final para mi la historia no funciona y es interesante en un 30% pero el resto es malo, inconcluso y con un humor extremadamente forzado por momentos.
If you are interested in this book because you watched the Netflix series, or intend do so, my comments at the end :DAdams nails it again and delivers a nice piece of fiction/comedy/romance/sci-fi/detective/fantasy.It was a hard read though.
So, 1) if you want to read the book before you watch the series: don't.
2) If you liked the series and want to read the book: go ahead, you won´t find your favorite characters but chances are you are going to laugh harder, find even weirder situations and don't worry, Dirk is as annoying as in the series.You can read this review and more in my blog :)
Stavolta non ci sarebbero stati testimoni.Stavolta c'era solo la terra morta, un rombo di tuono e l'inizio di quell'interminabile pioggerellina da Nordest che sembra accompagnare buona parte degli eventi cruciali di questo mondo. Se è vero che l'incipit di un romanzo sia fondamentale, in quanto già riesce a metterti in sintonia con le corde di tutta la narrazione, quello di Douglas Adams è la perfezione. L'empatia tra me e Dirk Gently è iniziata subito, dalla prima pagina, tanto da domandarmi s
L'investigatore più assurdo di tutta la storia dei possibili investigatori che la letteratura abbia mai prodotto (e di tizi strambi ne sono usciti fuori parecchi), nasce dallo strano connubio di fantascienza, giallo ed umorismo; quello che ne esce fuori è Dirk Gently, descritto talmente sommariamente nell'aspetto fisico - tanto che non ne abbiamo che una confusa e poco delineata idea - quanto minuziosamente dal punto di vista caratteriale per farcelo apparire come assolutamente fuori di testa.Ammetto che alcuni punti della trama mi hanno lasciato un po' di perplessità, ma sono curiosa di scoprire cosa si nasconde tra le pagine dei volumi successivi.
1988 The plot gets a bit muddled at the end, but I dearly love this book.
And the sofa.***Sept 10, 2012This may be one of the few books that is more rewarding to re-read.
That you have to just stick with it, and hope it makes sense at the end.
[It won't, it'll still be muddled nonsense, but it'll be funny nonsense] This reading what I particularly enjoyed were all the bits about music and computers and cats.
I also particularly noticed the idea of extinction, echoed in Last Chance to See.And the sofa issue.Personal copy
One of the most annoying things about reading the Kindle edition of this book was the fact that popular highlights show up and you can't turn them off, at least not easily.
It was inevitably the parts that you'd pick out as funny for yourself, not anything surprisingly good...Anyway, I grew up with Douglas Adams' work in the background, on the radio while we ate or while me and my sister played after dinner and my dad tried to relax.
There were a lot of good bits -- things I might pull out as memorable quotes -- but it didn't come out that memorably as a whole.
Divertente, avventuroso, un colpo di scena dopo l'altro. Inoltre adoro il non-sense che pervade il libro dalla prima all'ultima pagina.In particolare ad avermi catturata sono stati i personaggi: tutti realistici nelle loro personali follie, e incredibilmente simpatici. Avrei davvero voluto si trattasse di una serie e non di un libro singolo, ma forse è meglio così, perché anche il finale mi ha lasciata con un sorriso sulle labbra.Una lettura semplice ma spassosa, è uno di quei romanzi che una volta iniziati non riesci a mettere giù.
Çevirinin ve düzeltilerin kalitesizliğinden ötürü yarıda bıraktım. Kitabı orijinal dilinde okuma fırsatını elime geçirdiğim an buradaki yorumum güncellenecek.
My memory of that book is too fuzzy for me to say if this book is significantly different in style, or if I’ve just become more tolerant of the type of humor.
I do think Pratchett’s Discworld series taught me how to enjoy silly books now and then.I really didn’t find this book overly silly, though.
It was very funny and I giggled madly through quite a bit of it, but the humor mostly felt like an integral part of the story.
In the past, I've had more trouble when the story just feels like a vehicle for the humor.

I recently re-read Dirk Gently, since the first time I read it was in the seventh or eighth grade, and so I really didn't remember much of it.
I must say it is absolutely fantastic.
It is one of the few books which as I read it I was imagining what you could do for a film version.
I think it would be a fantastic work to bring to the big screen, particularly after the modest success of Hitchhiker's...That said, I love Douglas Adams.
The man was a genius at creating characters, and the Gently series might be more endeared to me than the Hitchhiker's.
As a reread I prefer these to, "Hitchhiker." Funny well done.
Doğrusu beynim güzel yandı.
Bilimkurgu ve fantastik ögeleri birbirine bağlayıp bunu keyifli bir şekilde anlatmayı başaran bir kitap, Kutsal Dedektiflik Bürosu.
Kutsal Dedektiflik Bürosu elinize alıp kafa dağıtmak için harika bir kitap.
Bazı karakterler bunların arasından sivrilip çok daha eğlenceli hale geliyor.
Ayrıca bu iki farklı kategorideki karakterlerin birbiriyle etkileşimi o kadar ustalıkla işlenmiş ki hiçbirisi sırıtmıyor, kitapta ilerledikçe karakterlerin hikayeye katkısı çok daha mantıklı hale geliyor.
İkinci kitap, bu kitaptan farklı bir konuyu ele alıyorsa müthiş hayal kırıklığına uğrayacağım.Genel olarak kitabın ağır ve ilginç başlayan başlangıcından sonra bahsettiğim eğlenceli karakterlerin hikayeye girişi ile kitaptan epey keyif aldım.
As usual, I quite enjoyed Adams's humor and brilliance, but this one, to me, isn't his best work.
It was very speculative, and very contemplative and assumed that the reader (or in my case, listener) was keeping right up, but I don't fault Adams for that.
I don't want the book to dumb anything down for me.
Although, if it dumbs things down for a character in the book, that's perfectly fine.
;) I really loved the humor in this book, and I think I'll read the second book in the series, as I want to read everything that Adams has written if I can.
